Malaysian Mirror - The East-West divide of Malaysian media
178 captures
13 Sep 2010 - 09 Jul 2023
May
JUL
Nov
22
2010
2011
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks July 2011
  Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started July, 2011. These files are currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20110722182744/http://www.malaysianmirror.com/featuredetail/140-sabah/49237-the-east-west-divide-of-malaysian-media
      
中文版
The East-West divide of Malaysian media
Joe Fernandez                
Thursday, 09 September 2010 16:45                
FOCUS  Anyone  who keeps tabs on the mainstream media in Sabah knows that the state has the  freest press in Malaysia. It’s likely to stay that way given the  politics in Sabah where anything goes. Besides, the readers will not  stand for anything less.Upko  (United PasokMomogun KadazanDusunMurut Organisation) deputy president  Wilfred Mojilip Bumburing’s recent high praise for the Sabah media is  merely stating the obvious with boring regularity. It’s like preaching  to the converted. One  reason for press freedom in Sabah is the stiff competition posed by the  number of local dailies which is startling. Another is the fact that  except for the tabloid New Sabah Times, owned by the family of Sabah  Chief Minister Musa Aman, all the others are independent media.The contrast between the east, albeit Sabah, and west could not be any greater.There is no place in Sabah for the Umno-owned Utusan Malaysia kind of racist fare or BN-poodles like the New Straits Times, also Umno-owned, and to a lesser extent The Star which is owned by the MCA. Peninsular Malaysia-based dailies, except for The Sun  from the time it went free, are however available in Sabah in limited  numbers. Their sales are poor and getting increasingly worse except for The Star,  but in Sarawak which doesn’t have a free press, thanks to Chief  Minister Abdul Taib Mahmud. Even Tamil newspapers from Peninsular  Malaysia can be seen on sale at the news stands in Kota Kinabalu.Besides the New Sabah Times, there are three English-language dailies in Sabah i.e. the Daily Express and the Borneo Post while the tabloid Daily Mail is  still largely confined to Labuan. The number of English dailies is  surprising in a state where the people, including the Chinese, prefer  speaking in Bahasa Sabah. This is a variation of the Malay language.The hugely popular tabloid Borneo Bulletin used  to circulate in Sabah when it was a weekly based in Kuala Belait,  Brunei. Since its shift to Bandar Seri Begawan as a daily, only  subscriber copies are available in Sabah.The Utusan Borneo is a daily in Bahasa Malaysia and Kadazandusun. Both the Daily Express and the New Sabah Times have inside pages in Bahasa Malaysia and Kadazandusun.Then there are the Chinese dailies i.e. the Overseas Chinese Daily News, the sister daily of the Daily Express; the See Hua Daily News, the sister daily of the Borneo Post; the Asia Times, the Miri-based International Times and the Morning Post in Tawau. The Sandakan Jih Pao went defunct several years ago but there are persistent rumours that it will be making a comeback soon.There  is any number of blogs and semi-news portals led by sabahkini.net, a  scandal site with a record number of police reports against it. It is  not known how many law suits the portal is facing.Local  news hogs the limelight in Sabah dailies with significant coverage of  Peninsular Malaysia and to a lesser extent Sarawak. There’s hardly any  news on Brunei.Sabah coverage is mainly the work of local journalists. Even the national news agency, Bernama, gives scant attention to Sabah and probably it’s the same with Sarawak and Brunei.The  main beef in Sabah among the media is that the  Peninsular-Malaysia-based give very low priority to news from Sabah and  Sarawak. Any coverage is very low-profile, often limited to fillers, and  generally placed at the bottom of the page. This makes one wonder why  their bureaus in Sabah keep churning out news which will not see the  light of day. The Bernama staffers in Sabah must be in a similar predicament.Peninsular  Malaysia-based Bahasa Malaysia dailies tend to give more coverage to  news from Sabah and Sarawak but in keeping with the ruling elite’s  “these are our colonies bequeathed to us by the British” theme. The  emphasis is on the greater glory of the banga, agama and negara – race,  religion, and nation – theme.The  Peninsular Malaysia-based alternative media is seen as definitely  pro-opposition alliance – read Pakatan Rakyat – in the same way that the  mainstream media in the peninsula roots for the ruling federal Barisan  Nasional coalition. And therefore just as bad. Even  if anything the alternative media are decidedly even more hostile than  the pro-BN mainstream media to any idea of Sabah and Sarawak opting for a  third political force in the Malaysian Parliament. Opposition leaders  in Sabah and Sarawak who show any signs of breaking away from PR for a  more independent stance are roundly condemned and vilified without being  given the right of reply.The  reading among the local media in Sabah is that it serves no purpose  whatsoever for Malaysian Borneo to go from the frying pan (BN) into the  fire (PR). The BN parties are happy with this take. Anything that  further divides the opposition alliance is good news to them. They draw a  line, however, at any idea of a third force making inroads into the BN  vote banks in Sabah and Sarawak.East  is east and west is west. Will the twain ever meet? Patently, there’s a  need for a greater east-west balance in the flow of news. The  mainstream media could yet lead the way and report events in Sabah and  Sarawak in a more balanced way. The same cannot be expected of the  alternative media, which sees Sabah and Sarawak as the preserve of PR,  except for the odd report now and then which makes its way past the  “censors”.
* The views expressed here are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Malaysian Mirror and/or its associates.
View the discussion thread.blog comments powered by Disqus
Last Updated on Thursday, 09 September 2010 17:35
 
Follow us on
  
  
  
Most Read Stories
                    PM Cancels Holiday To Be With The Rakyat                    
                    A Lie Has Robbed Their Freedom                    
                    Bersih Demands Media Freedom To Influence People To Hate Govt, Says Analysts                    
                    MACC's Torture Killed Teoh Beng Hock                    
                    Police Give Their Side Of The Story On Bersih Rally                    
                    Mixed Reaction From RCI Finding On Teoh's Death                    
                    Students Say Teacher Punched And Slapped Them                    
                    Has MACC Become Malaysian Ante Chamber Of Crime Housed By Criminals To Violate All Notions Of Law, Justice And Decency??                    
                    Action Against MACC Officers Who Violated Procedures                     
                    Teoh Beng Hock Committed Suicide (Updated)                    
©
MalaysianMirror. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction without explicit permission is prohibited.
        ABOUT US
            
              
            
            ADVERTISE
            
              
            
            CONTACT US
            
              
            
            