Italian military to switch to… | Joinup
 
32 captures
21 Aug 2019 - 22 Aug 2023
Aug
SEP
Oct
21
2018
2019
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Archive Team
 Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.
The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.
This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. 
Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.
The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. 
Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler
  ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites).
To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently.
There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com.
ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20190921132120/https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/collection/open-source-observatory-osor/news/italian-military-switch
      Skip to main content
    
Main navigation
Collections
Solutions
Keep up to date
Support
About Joinup
FAQ
HOW-TOs
Contact support
Satisfaction survey 2019
User account menu
Sign in
Main navigation mobile
Collections
Solutions
Keep up to date
 
Open Source Observatory (OSOR)
Last update
Sat, 21/09/2019 - 07:05
    460 Members
0 Solutions
 
Overview
Members
About
Case Studies
Italian military to switch to…
            Italian military to switch to LibreOffice and ODF
      
Permalink
Gijs Hillenius
15/09/2015
The Italian military is transitioning to LibreOffice and the Open Document Format (ODF). The Ministry of Defence will over the next year-and-a-half install this suite of office productivity tools on some 150,000 PC workstations - making it Europe’s second largest LibreOffice implementation. The switch was announced on 15 September by the LibreItalia Association.
The migration project will begin in October and is foreseen to be completed at the end of 2016.
The deployment of LibreOffice will be jointly managed by the two organisations, announces LibreItalia. The NGO will help the ministry to ready trainers in different parts of the military, and the Ministry is to develop a series of online courses to help with the switch to LibreOffice. The material is to be made public using a Creative Commons licence.
An agreement between the Ministry and LibreItalia was signed on 15 September in Rome, by Ruggiero Di Biase, Rear Admiral and General Manager of the Italian Ministry of Defence Information Systems and Sonia Montegiove, President of Associazione LibreItalia.

It’s the law
Italy’s Agency for the Digitalization of the Public Sector (AGID) congratulates the Ministry of Defence, writes the LibreItalia statement. “It hopes that other organisations may follow.”
The NGO writes that the switch to LibreOffice is a consequence of a June 2012 law, which says that free and open source should be the default option for the country’s public administrations.
The Ministry of Defence is the first central government organisation to switch to an open source office productivity suite. However, there are many regions, provinces and city administrations in Italy that use LibreOffice, including the Regione Emilia Romagna, the provinces of Perugia, Cremona, Macerata, Bolzano and Trento, and the cities of Bologna, Piacenza and Reggio Emilia.

Not alone
The project is also one of Europe’s largest. The largest European public administration using free software office suites is the French Interior Ministry, with some 240,000 desktops. In France, many ministries use open source office suites such as LibreOffice, including the Tax Agency, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture. LibreOffice is used on some 72,000 PC workstations at the French Gendarmerie.
In June 2014, the government of Extremadura (Spain) confirmed that 10,000 PCs in its healthcare organisation are running open source office applications and that it plans to do the same for its 22,000 PCs in the administration itself. The city of Munich (Germany) runs LibreOffice on 17,018 workstations.
 

More information:
LibreItalia’s announcement (in Italian) 
Report abusive content
Share
Comments
Federico Capilares
Fri, 27/11/2015 - 08:18
Brilliant move.  Here in Spain, some regions have also started to move over to LibreOffice from what I have read recently.  It´s a good sign.
Tamas Bubbleballs
Thu, 21/01/2016 - 21:09
Same in Germany, especially in small towns!
Login or create an account to comment.      
 
 
Follow us:
LinkedIn
Twitter
Joinup Newsletter
Footer menu
ADMS-AP Validator
Contact Joinup Support
About the Commission's new web presence
Resources for partners
Cookies
Legal notice
Contact
Europa Analytics