Maldivian language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Etymology
2Origin
3History
4Geographic distribution
Toggle Geographic distribution subsection
4.1Official status
4.2Dialects
5Spoken and literary varieties
6Writing system
7Latin transliteration
8Dictionary
9Phonology
10Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
10.1Morphology
10.1.1Nouns
10.2Nominal morphology
10.3Numerals
10.4Verbal morphology
10.5Word order
10.6Loanwords
10.6.1Words referring to persons
10.6.2Words referring to things
10.6.3Words referring to actions
11Levels of speech
12Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
12.1Word origins
12.2Some common phrases
13Sample
14Information technology
Toggle Information technology subsection
14.1Typography
14.2Fonts
14.3Text editors
15See also
16References
17Bibliography
18Further reading
19External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Maldivian language
84 languages
AfrikaansअंगिकाالعربيةAragonésঅসমীয়াAsturianuAvañe'ẽAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschދިވެހިބަސްEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡქართულიKiswahiliКомиLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपाली日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийसंस्कृतम्ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt吴语粵語中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Mahl language)
Indo-Aryan national language of Maldives
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Maldivian language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
DhivehiMaldivianދިވެހި, dhivehi"Dhivehi" written in the Thaana scriptPronunciation[d̪iʋehi]Native toMaldivesMinicoy Island (Maliku)EthnicityMaldiviansNative speakers340,000 (2012)[1]Language familyIndo-European
Indo-IranianIndo-AryanSouthern ZoneInsular Indo-AryanOld DhivehiDhivehiWriting systemThaana  Dhives Akuru until the 19th century Signed formsDhivehi Sign LanguageOfficial statusOfficial language in MaldivesRegulated byDhivehi AcademyLanguage codesISO 639-1dvISO 639-2divISO 639-3divGlottologdhiv1236IETFdv-MVThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Maldivian in Carl Faulmann [de]'s Das Buch der Schrift, 1880
Maldivian,[1] also known by its endonym Dhivehi[2] or Divehi[3][4] (/dɪˈveɪhi/ di-VAY-hee;[5] Dhivehi: ދިވެހި, Dhivehi pronunciation: [diʋehi]), is an Indo-Aryan language spoken in the South Asian island country of Maldives[6] and on Minicoy Island, Lakshadweep, a union territory of India.
The Maldivian language has four notable dialects. The standard dialect is that of the capital city of Malé. The greatest dialectal variation exists in the southern atolls of Huvadhu, Addu and Fuvahmulah. Each of these atolls has its own distinct dialect often thought to be interconnected with each other while being widely different from the dialect spoken in the northern atolls. The southern dialects are so distinct that those only speaking northern dialects cannot understand them.[6]
The ethnic endonym for the language, Divehi, is occasionally found in English as Dhivehi (spelled according to the locally used Malé Latin for the romanisation of the Maldivian language), which is the official spelling as well as the common usage in the Maldives. Dhivehi is written in Thaana script.
Dhivehi is a descendant of Elu Prakrit and is closely related to Sinhalese, but not mutually intelligible with it. Many languages have influenced the development of Dhivehi through the ages. They include Arabic, Urdu/Hindustani, Persian, Tamil, French, Portuguese, and English. The English words atoll (a ring of coral islands or reefs) and dhoni (a vessel for inter-atoll navigation) are anglicised forms of the Maldivian words atoḷu and dōni. Before European colonization of the Southern Hemisphere, it was the southernmost Indo-European language.
Etymology[edit]
The origin of the word "Divehi" is from older divu+vesi, meaning "island dwelling". Vesi came from Sanskrit vāsin and later became vehi. Divu  (from Sanskrit dvīpa) later became the suffix -dū, which is currently present in many names of Maldivian islands, such as Hanimādū, Mīdū, and Dāndū.[7] Bas (from Sanskrit bhāṣā) means "language", so Dhivehi bas (ދިވެހިބަސް) means "islanders' language". 
Wilhelm Geiger, a German linguist who undertook the first research on Maldivian linguistics in the early 20th century, also called the language Divehi. An h was added to the name of the language— "Dhivehi"— in 1976, when the semi-official transliteration called Malé Latin was developed. Today the spelling with Dh has common and semi-official usage in the Maldives.
Origin[edit]
Maldivian is an Indo-Aryan language closely related to the Sinhalese language of Sri Lanka. Maldivian represents the southernmost Indo-Aryan language. Maldivian and Sinhalese together constitute a subgroup within the modern Indo-Aryan languages, called Insular Indo-Aryan. However, they are not mutually intelligible.[8]
Maldivian and Sinhalese are descended from the Elu Prakrit of ancient and medieval Sri Lanka. These Prakrits were originally derived from Old Indo-Aryan vernaculars related to Vedic Sanskrit.
Whereas formerly Maldivian was thought to be a descendant of Sinhalese, in 1969 Sinhalese philologist M. W. S. de Silva for the first time proposed that Maldivian and Sinhalese had branched off from a common mother language.[9]
History[edit]
Main article: Old Dhivehi
12th-century lōmāfānu, copper plates on which early Maldivian sultans wrote orders and grants
The earliest official writings were on the lōmāfānu (copper-plate grants) of the 12th and 13th centuries. Earlier inscriptions on coral stone have also been found. The oldest inscription found to date is an inscription on a coral stone, which is estimated to be from around the 6th-8th centuries.
Maldivian is an Indo-Aryan language of the Sinhalese-Maldivian subfamily.[10] It developed in relative isolation from other languages until the 12th century. Since the 16th century, Maldivian has been written in a unique script called Thaana which is written from right to left, like Arabic (with which it shares several common diacritics for vowel sounds).
The foundation of the historical linguistic analysis of both Maldivian and Sinhalese was laid by Wilhelm Geiger (1856–1943). In Geiger's comparative study of Maldivian and Sinhalese, he assumes that Maldivian is a dialectal offspring of Sinhalese and therefore is a "daughter language" of Sinhalese. However, the material he collected was not sufficient to judge the "degree of relationship" of Maldivian and Sinhalese.
Geiger concludes that Maldivian must have split from Sinhalese not earlier than the 10th century CE. However, there is nothing in the history of these islands or Sinhalese chronicles, even in legendary form, that alludes to a migration of Sinhalese people which would result in such a connection. Maldives is completely absent from the pre-12th century records of Sri Lanka.[6]
A rare Maliku Thaana primer written in the Maliku dialect, published by Lakshadweep's administration during the time of Rajiv Gandhi's rule, was reprinted by Spanish researcher Xavier Romero Frías in 2003.[11]
There is a holiday, the Dhivehi Language Day, which is celebrated in the Maldives on 14 April, the birthday of the writer Husain Salahuddin.[12]
Geographic distribution[edit]
Maldivian is spoken in the Maldives and a variation of it in Minicoy.[6]
Official status[edit]
Maldivian is the official language of the Maldives and a semi-official language in the union territory of Lakshadweep, India.
Dialects[edit]
The Maldivian language has multiple dialects due to the wide distribution of the islands, causing differences in pronunciation and vocabulary to develop during the centuries. The most divergent dialects of the language are to be found in the southern atolls, namely Huvadhu, Fuvahmulah and Addu. The other variants show less difference to the official dialect, including the dialects spoken in a few islands in Kolhumadulu Atoll and the now obsolete dialect once spoken in Giraavaru, which are hardly recognised and known.
Malé dialect is the mainstream Maldivian dialect (bahuruva) and is based on the dialect spoken in the capital of the Maldives, Malé.
Haddhunmathee dialect spoken in Haddhunmathi Atoll.
Maliku dialect (Mahl) spoken in Minicoy (Maliku) in union territory of Lakshadweep, India. The dialect spoken in Minicoy has fewer differences from the standard Maldivian than other dialects. It has some archaic forms of words and Malayalam loanwords.
Mulaku dialect is a dialect of Maldivian spoken by the people of Fuvahmulah. Mulaku dialect has word-final 'l' (laamu sukun ލް), which is absent from the other dialects of Maldivian. Another characteristic is the 'o' sound at the end of words, instead of the final 'u' common in all other forms of Maldivian; e.g. fanno instead of fannu. Regarding pronunciation, the retroflex 'ṣ' (IPA [ʂ]), has a [ɽ̊~ɽ̊r̥] sound in the Mulaku dialect and was once pronounced that way in official Maldivian. One of the most unusual features of Mulaku dialect is that, unlike other dialects, it distinguishes gender. Also, there are many remarkable differences in the dialect in place of the sukun system as well as the vowel or diacritical system following a distinctive set of rules. The Mulaku dialect also has nasal vowels, which are unique only to this dialect.
Huvadhu dialect, spoken by the inhabitants of the large atoll of Huvadhu, is another distinctive form of Maldivian. Because of the isolation from the Northern Atolls, and the capital of Malé, Huvadhu dialect makes more use of the retroflex /ʈ/ than other variants. Huvadhu dialect also retains old Sinhalese words and is sometimes considered to be linguistically closer to Sinhalese than the other dialects of Maldivian. The Huvadhu dialect can be separated into two subdialects, the eastern and western Huvadhu dialects.
Addu dialect is also quite different from the official form of Maldivian and has some affinities with Mulaku dialect. In the past, Addu Atoll being a centre of education, the islanders from the three atolls of the south who acquired education there used Addu dialect as their lingua franca. Hence, when for example one of these islanders of any of the Huvadhu islands met with someone from Fuvahmulah, they would use Addu dialect to talk to each other. Addu dialect is the most widespread of the dialects of Maldivian. However, the secessionist government of the Suvadives (1959–1963) used Malé dialect in its official correspondence.
Madifushi dialect is the lesser known dialect in the Madifushi island of Kolhumadulu and has some similarities with Huvadhu dialect. Word-final 'a' is often replaced with 'e' or 'o', and some final consonants also differ.
The letter Ṇaviyani (ޱ), which represented the retroflex n sound common to many Indic languages (Gujarati, Hindi, etc.), was abolished from official documents in by Muhammad Amin in 1950.[13] Ṇaviyani's former position in the Thaana alphabet, between the letters Gaafu and Seenu, is today occupied by the palatal nasal Ñaviyani (ޏ). It is still seen in reprints of traditional old books like the Boḍu Tarutību and official documents like the Rādavaḷi. It is also used by people of southern atolls when writing songs or poetry in their language variant.
According to Sonja Fritz, "the dialects of Maldivian represent different diachronial stages in the development of the language. Especially in the field of morphology, the amount of archaic features steadily increase from the north to the south. Within the three southernmost atolls (of the Maldives), the dialect of the Addu islands which form the southern tip of the whole archipelago is characterized by the highest degree of archaicity".[14]
However, the Huvadhu Atoll dialect is characterized by the highest degree of archaicity. From Huvadhu Atoll the archaic features decrease toward the south and north.
Fritz also adds that "the different classes of verb conjugation and nominal inflection are best preserved there, morphological simplifications and, as a consequence increasing from atoll to atoll towards north (in the Maldives)".
Spoken and literary varieties[edit]
Maldivian presents another aspect with which English speakers are not too familiar: diglossia, the distinction between what is spoken and what is written. Every language that has a written form has this distinction to a greater or lesser degree, but many Asian languages, including Maldivian exhibit major differences between the two varieties of language. Malé dialect and Maliku dialect are the only dialects commonly used in writing.
Spoken Maldivian, for instance, has twenty-seven consonants. In contrast, written or literary Maldivian includes some Arabic sounds as well. Though these sounds are also used in speaking, their phonetics are not strictly observed. This results in pronunciation as close as possible to spoken Maldivian.
Regarding syntax, it may be said that every sentence in written Maldivian ends with the addition of ve, which is never used to end a sentence in spoken Maldivian. In using ve a strict word order also has to be maintained, but in spoken Maldivian word order is not considered to be very rigid.
One of the very important things one has to take into account in written Maldivian which is not so important in spoken Maldivian is the ‘sukun’ on the letters alif and shaviyani. Sukun in general is a mark to indicate an abrupt stop (vowel deletion) on the sound of the letter on which it is placed. However, if it is on a shaviyani or alif and comes within the word, the following consonant is geminated; if it comes on a shaviyani or alif at the end of a word, it signifies the glottal stop; if it comes on a thaa, the sound is replaced by a y off-glide; if it comes on a noonu at the end of a word, it indicates a velar nasal.
Writing system[edit]
Main articles: Maldivian writing systems and Thaana
The Maldivian language has had its own script since very ancient times, most likely over two millennia, when Maldivian Buddhist monks translated and copied the Buddhist scriptures.
It used to be written in the earlier form (Evēla) of the Dhives Akuru ("Dhivehi/Maldivian letters") which are written from left to right. Dhives Akuru were used in all of the islands between the conversion to Islam and until the 18th century. These ancient Maldivian letters were also used in official correspondence with Addu Atoll until the early 20th century. Perhaps they were used in some isolated islands and rural communities until the 1960s, but the last remaining native user died in the 1990s. Today Maldivians rarely learn the Dhives Akuru alphabet, for Arabic is favoured as the second script.[15]
Maldivian is now written using a different script, called Taana or Thaana, written from right to left. This script is relatively recent.
The literacy rate of the Maldives is very high (98%) compared to other South Asian countries. Since the 1960s English has become the medium of education in most schools although they still have Maldivian language classes, but Maldivian is still the language used for the overall administration.[citation needed]
Maldivian uses mainly the Thaana script for writing. It is an alphabet, with obligatory vowels derived from the vowel diacritics of the Arabic abjad.  It is a largely phonemic script: With a few minor exceptions, spelling can be predicted from pronunciation, and pronunciation from spelling.
The origins of Thaana are unique among the world's alphabets: The first nine letters (h–v) are derived from the Arabic numerals, whereas the next nine (m–d) were the local Indic numerals. (See Hindu–Arabic numerals.) The remaining letters for loanwords (t–z) and Arabic transliteration are derived from phonetically similar native consonants by means of diacritics, with the exception of y (ޔ), which is derived from combining an alifu (އ) and a vaavu (ވ). This means that Thaana is one of the few alphabets not derived graphically from the original Semitic alphabet – unless the Indic numerals were (see Brahmi numerals). The Thaana alphabet (hā, shaviyani, nūnu, rā, bā, ...) does not follow the ancient order of the other Indic scripts (like or Tamil) or the order of the Arabic alphabet.
Thaana, like Arabic, is written right to left.  It indicates vowels with diacritic marks derived from Arabic. Each letter must carry either a vowel or a sukun, which indicates "no vowel". The only exception to this rule is noonu which, when written without a diacritic, indicates prenasalisation of a following stop.
The vowels are written with diacritical signs called fili. There are five fili for short vowels (a, i, u, e, o), with the first three being identical to the Arabic vowel signs (fatha, kasra and damma). Long vowels (aa, ee, oo, ey, oa) are denoted by doubled fili, except oa, which is a modification of the short obofili.
The letter alifu represents the glottal stop. It has three different purposes:
It can act as a carrier for a vowe
, that is, a word-initial vowel or the second part of a diphthong; when it carries a sukun, it indicates gemination of the following consonant; and if alifu+sukun occurs at the end of a word, it indicates that the word ends in a glottal stop. Gemination of nasals, however, is indicated by noonu+sukun preceding the nasal to be geminated.
Maldivian is also written in "Malé Latin" (most commonly used, such as when romanising place names). IAST transliteration is also sometimes used, and also the Devanāgarī script (almost never used in Maldives, but used in Minicoy[16])
Latin transliteration[edit]
Main article: Malé Latin
Towards the mid-1970s, during President Ibrahim Nasir's tenure, the Maldivian government introduced telex machines in the local administration. This was viewed as great progress, but the local Thaana script was deemed to be an obstacle because messages on the telex machines could only be written in the Latin script.
Following this, in 1976 the government approved a new official Latin transliteration, Dhivehi Latin, which was quickly implemented by the administration. Booklets were printed and dispatched to all Atoll and Island Offices, as well as schools and merchant liners. This was seen by many as the effective demise of the Thaana script. Clarence Maloney, an American anthropologist who was in the Maldives at the time of the change, lamented the inconsistencies of the "Dhivehi Latin" which ignored all previous linguistic research on the Maldivian language done by H.C.P. Bell and Wilhelm Geiger. He wondered why the modern Standard Indic transliteration had not been considered. Standard Indic is a consistent script system that is well adapted to writing almost all languages of South Asia.[17] However, this scheme lacks a few sounds used in Maldivian. ISO 15919 has been used by Xavier Romero-Frias to romanize Maldivian in his book The Maldive Islanders - A Study of the Popular Culture of an Ancient Ocean Kingdom.
The government reinstated the Thaana script shortly after President Maumoon took power in 1978. There was widespread relief in certain places, especially rural areas, where the introduction of Latin had been regarded with suspicion. However, the Latin transcription of 1976 continues to be widely used.
Dictionary[edit]
The 412-page hard-back English–Maldivian dictionary, A Maldivian Dictionary, written by Christopher Hanby Baillie Reynolds, was published on 22 July 2003 by Routledge and contains about 5000 individual entries.
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Maldivian phonology
The sound system of Maldivian is similar to that of Dravidian languages. Like other modern Indo-Aryan languages the Maldivian phonemic inventory shows an opposition of long and short vowels, of dental and retroflex consonants, and of single and geminate consonants.
Vowels[18]
Front
Central
Back
short
long
short
long
short
long
Close
i
iː
u
uː
Mid
e
eː
o
oː
Open
(æː)
a
aː
Abafili is the vowel sign  denoting "a".
Ibifili is the vowel sign denoting "i".
Ubufili is the vowel sign  denoting "u".
Sukun is the signdenoting absence of a vowel.
[æː] has developed as an independent phoneme from the diphthong /ai/.
The short open back vowel is phonetically central [ä].
Consonants[18]
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Retroflex
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɳ
(ɲ)*
Stop/Affricate
p 
bᵐb
t̪ 
d̪ⁿd̪
ʈ 
ɖᶯɖ
t͡ʃ 
d͡ʒ 
k 
ɡᵑɡ
Fricative
f
s̪
z
ʂ
ʃ
h
Approximant
ʋ
l̪
ɭ
j
Tap
ɽ
Grammar[edit]
Morphology[edit]
Nouns[edit]
Nouns in Maldivian inflect for definiteness, number and case. Definiteness may be one of definite, indefinite or unspecified. Number may be singular or plural. Case may be one of nominative, dative, ablative, genitive, locative, instrumental or emphatic.
Nominal morphology[edit]
The nominal system of Maldivian comprises nouns, pronouns, adjectives and numerals as parts of speech.
Numerals[edit]
Maldivian uses two numeral systems. Both of them are identical up to 30. After 30, however, one system places the unit numeral stem before the decade, for example, eh-thirees '31' (lit. "one and thirty") while the other combines the stem of the decade with the unit numeral, for example, thirees-ekeh '31' ("thirty + one"). The latter system also has numerals multiplied by ten for decades 70, 80 and 90. The decade fas dholhas '60' ("five twelves"), comes from a much older duodecimal, or dozen-based, system which has nearly disappeared.
Verbal morphology[edit]
The Maldivian verbal system is characterised by a derivational relationship between active, causative and involitive/intransitive verb forms.
Word order[edit]
The word order in Maldivian is not as rigid as in English, though changes in the order of words in a sentence may convey subtle differences in meaning. To ask for some fish in a market, one uses the following words: mashah (to me) mas (fish) vikkaa (sell), which may be put in any of the following orders without a change in meaning:
mashah mas vikkaa.
to me     fish   sell
mas mashah vikkaa.
fish   to me     sell
mas vikkaa mashah.
fish   sell     to me
The word mashah (to me) may be dropped wherever the context makes it obvious.
Loanwords[edit]
Speakers of Maldivian use a great many loanwords from many languages in their everyday conversation (see § Vocabulary). The extent to which loan words are used varies between speakers, depending on their contacts with that language. Thus, those who have had an English education will tend to use a larger number of English words, while an average speaker with little or no contact with English will tend to use just a few. Some of these adopted words have now become so much part of the Maldivian language that there seem to be no other words that could replace them.
There are different ways by which loanwords are naturalised in Maldivian. This depends on whether the loanword refers to a person, a thing, or some kind of action.
Words referring to persons[edit]
If the loanword refers to a person, the following suffixes can be used: 
eh: indefinite
un: plural
waiter (veitar) + eh = a waiter (veitareh)
waiter (veitar) + un = waiters (veitarun)
Among some of the most common words of this kind are the following:
actor (ektaru), 
agent (ejentu), 
ambassador (embesedaru), 
architect (aakitektu), 
bodyguard (bodeegaadu),
cashier (keyshiyaru),
director (direktaru, dairektaru), 
doctor (daktaru), 
driver (duraivaru), 
guard (gaadu), 
inspector (inspektaru), 
manager (meneyjaru), 
minister (ministaru), 
operator (opareytaru), 
producer (purodiusaru), 
sergeant (saajentu),
servant (saaventu)
Words referring to things[edit]
If the loanword refers to a thing, the suffixes are
eh: indefinite singular
uthah: plural
car (kaar) + eh = a car (kaareh)
car (kaar) + uthah = cars (kaaruthah)
Some of the most commonly used words of this kind are the following:
bicycle (baisikalu), 
bill (bilu), 
cable (keybalu), 
cake (keyku), 
coat (koatu), 
counter (kauntaru), 
parcel (paarisalu/paarusalu), 
ticket (tiketu)
Words referring to actions[edit]
If the loanword refers to some kind of action, the Maldivian word kure (present), kuranee (present continuous), koffi (present perfect), kuri (past) or kuraane (future) is added after it, if it is done intentionally, and ve (present), vanee (present continuous), vejje (present perfect), vi (past) and vaane (future) is added after it, if it happens to be unintentional or passive. For example, using kensal "cancel":
kensal + kurey = cancel (as an order)
kensal + kuranee = canceling
kensal + koffi = has been cancelled/cancelled
kensal + kuri = cancelled
kensal + kuraane = will cancel
kensal + vanee = canceling (on its own) i.e. getting cancelled
kensal + vejje = cancelled (on its own) i.e. got cancelled
kensal + vaane = will cancel (on its own) i.e. will get cancelled
Some examples:
book (buk) kuranee = booking
Levels of speech[edit]
Inherent in the Maldivian language is a form of elaborate class distinction expressed through three levels: The highest level, the maaiy bas, formerly used to address members of the royal family, is now commonly used to show respect. People use the second level reethi bas and third level aadhaige bas in everyday life.[citation needed]
Vocabulary[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Maldivian contains many loanwords from other languages.
Word origins[edit]
After the arrival of Islam in South Asia, Persian and Arabic made a significant impact on Maldivian. It borrowed extensively from both languages, especially terms related to Islam and the judiciary. Some examples follow:
namādu – "prayer" (from Persian namāz)
rōda – "fasting" (from Persian rūze)
mēzu – "table" (from Persian mīz)
kāfaru – "non-believer" (from Arabic kāfir)
tārīkh – "date" or "history" (from Arabic tārīkh)
zarāfā – "giraffe" (from Arabic zarāfah)
French origin:
gili-gili – "tickle-tickle" (from French guili-guili)
Portuguese influence in the language can be seen from the period of Portuguese colonial power in the region:
lonsi – "hunting spear" (from Portuguese lança)
Maldivian has also borrowed words from Urdu, Hindi and more recently, English (in particular many scientific and technological terms).
English words are also commonly used in the spoken language, for example "phone", "note", "radio", and soatu ("shorts").
Some common phrases[edit]
Maldivian phrase
Transliteration
English
ޝުކުރިއްޔާ
Shukuriyyaa
Thank you
ނޫން
Noon
No
Sample[edit]
The following is a sample text in Maldivian, Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (by the United Nations):
މާއްދާ 1 - ހުރިހާ އިންސާނުން ވެސް އުފަންވަނީ، ދަރަޖަ އާއި ޙައްޤު ތަކުގައި މިނިވަންކަމާއި ހަމަހަމަކަން ލިބިގެންވާ ބައެއްގެ ގޮތުގައެވެ. އެމީހުންނަށް ހެޔޮ ވިސްނުމާއި ހެޔޮ ބުއްދީގެ ބާރު ލިބިގެން ވެއެވެ. އަދި އެމީހުން އެކަކު އަނެކަކާ މެދު މުއާމަލާތް ކުރަންވާނީ އުޚުއްވަތްތެރި ކަމުގެ ރޫހެއް ގައެވެ.
Romanization (ISO 15919):
māddā 1 - hurihā insānun ves ufanvanī, darajaʾāi ḥaqqu takugai minivankamāi hamahamakan libigenvā baʾegge gotugaʾeve. Emīhunnaʾ heyo visnumāi heyo buddīge bāru libigenveʾeve. Adi emīhun ekaku anekakā medu muāmalāt kuranvānī uk͟huvvatteri kamuge rūheʾ gaʾeve.
Gloss (word-for-word):
Article 1 – All human-beings also are born, ranking and rights' in freedom and equality acquired people like. Them to good thinking and good brain's endowment acquired is. And they one another to communicate do should brotherhood's spirit with.
Translation (grammatical):
Article 1 – All human beings are born free and equal in ranking and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Information technology[edit]
Typography[edit]
Founded in 1984, the Mahal Unit Press at Minicoy prints texts in Maldivian, among other languages. The press also publishes the Lakshadweep Times in three languages on a regular basis: Maldivian, English and Malayalam. This unit is based in the main building, constructed in 1998. For the first time in the history of Lakshadweep, Maldivian was brought into the field of typography.
Activities:
Production of note books for the department of Education and Jawahar Navodaya School at Minicoy.
Printing Maldivian textbooks for Standards I to IV.
Undertaking printing work from the public on a payment basis.
Fonts[edit]
Freely downloadable open-source Unicode typefaces featuring Thaana letters include FreeSerif and MPH 2B Damase.
Text editors[edit]
A variety of word processors are used to write Maldivian. Among them, the most popular is Microsoft Word.[citation needed]
See also[edit]
Maldives Sign Language
Asia portalLanguage portal
vteTopics related to the Mahal language
Phonology
Writing systems
Tāna
Devanagari
Romanization
Literature
References[edit]
^ a b Maldivian at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forke, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian, eds. (2020). "Dhivehi". Glottolog 4.3.
^ "Documentation for ISO 639 identifier: div". ISO 639-2 Registration Authority – Library of Congress. Retrieved 8 July 2017. Divehi; Dhivehi; Maldivian
^ "Documentation for ISO 639 identifier: div". ISO 639-3 Registration Authority – SIL International. Retrieved 8 July 2017. Dhivehi, Divehi, Maldivian
^ "Dhivehi". The Chambers Dictionary (9th ed.). Chambers. 2003. ISBN 0-550-10105-5.
^ a b c d B. D, Cain (2000). Introduction. Dhivehi (Maldivian): A Synchronic and Diachronic Study (Thesis). Cornell Univ. [Ithaca]. p. 1.
^ Pandey, Anshuman (23 January 2018). Proposal to encode Dives Akuru in Unicode (PDF). Unicode. p. 5.
^ Gair, James W. (2007). "The Dhivehi Language: A Descriptive and Historical Grammar of Dhivehi and Its Dialects. 2 vols". The Journal of the American Oriental Society.
^ de Silva (1970)
^ "Language: Dhivehi". Glottolog. Glottolog. Retrieved 9 March 2017.
^ Minicoy Language Primer (Maliku Taana – Devana Foiy). January 2006. Retrieved 12 June 2016.
^ "Dhivehi Language Day in the Maldives". Retrieved 3 November 2018.
^ Xavier Romero-Frias, The Maldive Islanders: A Study of the Popular Culture of an Ancient Ocean Kingdom
^ Fritz (2002)
^ Romero-Frias, Xavier (10 April 2003). The Maldivian Script. Volume One. (Divehi Akuru – 1). Retrieved 12 June 2016.
^ "Maldivian language and alphabets". omniglot.com. Retrieved 7 February 2022.
^ Clarence Maloney. People of the Maldive Islands
^ a b Gnanadesikan, Amalia E. (2017). Dhivehi: The Language of the Maldives. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton. pp. 21–25.
Bibliography[edit]
De Silva, M W S (1970). "Some Observations on the History of Dhivehi". Transactions of the Philological Society, London..
Fritz, Sonja (2002), The Divehi Language: A Descriptive and Historical Grammar of the Maldivian and its Dialects, Heidelberg{{citation}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link).
Vitharana, V (1987), Sri Lanka – Maldivian Cultural Affinities, Academy of Sri Lankan Culture.
Further reading[edit]
Cain, Bruce D (2000), Divehi (Maldivian): A Synchronic and Diachronic study, PhD thesis presented to the Faculty of the Graduate School at Cornell University.
Crystal, David (2000), Language Death, Cambridge University Press.
Geiger, Wilhem (2001). "Maldivian Linguistic Studies". Journal of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, Colombo..
Manik, Hassan Ahmed (2000), A Concise Etymological Vocabulary of Dhivehi Language, The Royal Asiatic Society of Sri Lanka, p. xxiv, 261.
Muhammad, Naseema (1999), Dhivehi Writing Systems, National Centre for Linguistic and Historical Research, Malé.
Reynolds, Christopher Hanby Baillie (1974). "Buddhism and the Maldivian Language". Buddhist Studies in Honour of I. B. Horner, Dordrecht..
Reynolds, Christopher Hanby Baillie (2003), A Maldivian Dictionary, Routledge, London, p. 412, ISBN 9780415298087.
Romero-Frias, Xavier (1999), The Maldive Islanders: A Study of the Popular Culture of an Ancient Ocean Kingdom, Nova Ethnographia Indica, ISBN 84-7254-801-5.
Romero-Frias, Xavier (2012), Folk Tales of the Maldives, NIAS Press, ISBN 978-87-7694-105-5.
Wijesundera; et al. (1988), Historical and Linguistic Survey of the Dhivehi Language, Final Report. University of Colombo, Sri Lanka.
External links[edit]
For a list of words relating to Maldivian language, see the Maldivian language category of words in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
 Divehi  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Look up Maldivian in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Divehi language.
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Dhivehi.
English–Dhivehi Dictionary (archived)
Dhivehi Academy
Mahal Unit Press Minicoy (archived)
Unicode standard for Middle Eastern scripts
vteMaldives articlesHistory
Museum
Folklore
Buddhism
Koimala
Dynasties
Sultans
1952 republic referendum
1968 republic referendum
1988 coup d'état attempt
2003 civil unrest
2004 Black Friday
2005 civil unrest
2008 Multi-party democracy
2011–13 political crisis
Geography
Atolls
Channels
Climate
Climate change
Islands
Towns and villages
Wildlife
Baa atoll UNESCO biosphere reserve
Politics
Administrative divisions
Cabinet
Constitution
Elections
Foreign relations
Human rights
Judiciary
Law enforcement
Majlis (parliament)
Military
Political parties
President
Economy
Economic aid
Fishing
Industries
Rufiyaa (currency)
Stock Exchange
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
Airports
Society
People
Anthem
Crime
Cuisine
Culture
Demographics
Education
Health
COVID-19 pandemic
Emblem
Flag
Names
Islam
Language
Music
Sports
Diaspora
Newspapers
OutlineIndex
Category
vteIndo-Aryan languagesDardicKashmiri
Kashmiri
Kishtwari
Shina
Shina
Brokskat
Kundal Shahi
Kalkoti
Ushoji
Palula
Sawi
Pashayi
Pashayi
Kunar
Dameli
Gawar-Bati
Nangalami
Shumashti
Chitral
Kalasha
Khowar
Kohistani
Indus Kohistani
Bateri
Chilisso
Gowro
Kalami
Tirahi
Torwali
Wotapuri-Katarqalai
NorthernEastern
Doteli
Jumli
Nepali
Central
Garhwali
Kumaoni
Western
Dogri
Kangri
Bhadarwahi
Churahi
Bhateali
Bilaspuri
Chambeali
Gaddi
Pangwali
Mandeali
Mahasu Pahari
Jaunsari
Kullui
Pahari Kinnauri
Hinduri
Sirmauri
Sarazi
NorthwesternPunjabiEastern
Punjabi
dialects
Sansi
Lahnda
Hindko
Inku
Khetrani
Pahari-Pothwari
Saraiki
Sindhi
Jadgali
Kholosi
Kutchi
Luwati
Memoni
Sindhi
WesternGujarati
Aer
Gujarati
Jandavra
Koli
Kachi
Parkari
Wadiyara
Lisan ud-Dawat
Parkari Koli
Saurashtra
Vaghri
Rajasthani
Bagri
Goaria
Loarki
Gujari
Dhundari
Harauti
Malvi
Marwari
Mewati
Mewari
Shekhawati
Dhatki
Nimadi
Bhil
Bhili
Bhilali
Chodri
Dhodia-Kukna
Dhanki
Dubli
Bauria
Bhilori
Mawchi
Magari
Palya Bareli
Pauri Bareli
Rathwi Bareli
Pardhi
Gamit
Kalto
Vasavi
Wagdi
Vaagri Booli
Others
Khandeshi
Lambadi
Dawoodi
Domari
Romani
list of languages
CentralWestern
Braj Bhasha
Bundeli
Haryanvi
Hindustani
Kauravi
Hindi
Urdu
Deccani
Judeo-Urdu
Hyderabadi Urdu
Rekhta
Kannauji
Sansi
Sadhukkadi
Eastern
Awadhi
Bagheli
Chhattisgarhi
Fiji Hindi
Others
Parya
EasternBihariBhojpuric
Bhojpuri
Caribbean Hindustani
Magahi
Magahi
Khortha
Maithili
Maithili
Angika
Bajjika
Sadanic
Sadri
Kurmali
Tharuic
Tharu
Kochila
Buksa
Majhi
Musasa
Others
Kumhali
Kuswaric
Bote-Darai
Danwar
Bengali–AssameseBengali
Bengali
dialects
Bishnupriya Manipuri
Hajong
Chittagonian
Chakma
Kharia Thar
Kurmukar
Mal Paharia
Noakhailla
Rohingya
Sylheti
Tanchangya
Kamarupic
Assamese
Kamrupi
Goalpariya
Rajbanshi (Nepal)
Rangpuri
Surjapuri
Odia
Odia
Sambalpuri
Desia
Bhatri
Bodo Parja
Reli
Kupia
Halbic
Halbi
Kamar
Bhunjia
Nahari
SouthernMarathi–KonkaniMarathic
Marathi
Varhadi
Andh
Berar Deccan
Varli
Phudagi
Katkari
Kadodi
Konkanic
Konkani
Maharashtrian Konkani
Canarese Konkani
Insular
Maldivian
Sinhala
Old
Sanskrit
Vedic
Classical
Mitanni superstrate
MiddleEarly
Ashokan Prakrit
Pāli
Early Ardhamagadhi
Middle (Prakrit)
Buddhist Hybrid Sanskrit
Dramatic Prakrits
Ardhamagadhi
Magadhi
Maharashtri
Shauraseni
Gāndhārī
Paishachi
Late (Apabhraṃśa)
Abahattha
Apabhraṃśa
Elu
Kamarupi
Khasa Prakrit
Proto-languages
Proto-Indo-Iranian
Proto-Indo-Aryan
Unclassified
Bazigar
Chinali–Lahul
Chinali
Lahul Lohar
Sheikhgal
Pidginsand creoles
Andaman Creole Hindi
Bombay Hindi
Haflong Hindi
Nagamese
Nefamese
Vedda
See also
Indo-Iranian languages
Nuristani languages
Iranian languages
Authority control National
Germany
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Maldivian_language&oldid=1169616760"
Categories: Maldivian languageSouthern Indo-Aryan languagesLanguages of the MaldivesLanguages of IndiaDhivehiHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from March 2018All articles needing additional referencesUse British English from March 2013Use dmy dates from March 2022Articles containing Dhivehi-language textLanguage articles with IETF language tagLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2019Articles with unsourced statements from October 2019Articles needing additional references from July 2022Articles containing Portuguese-language textArticles with unsourced statements from April 2021CS1 maint: location missing publisherCommons category link is on WikidataArticles with GND identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 10 August 2023, at 05:57 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width