MALAYSIA’S WATER VISION: THE WAY FORWARD - The Malaysian Water Partnership
60 captures
25 Feb 2019 - 09 Jul 2023
Jul
SEP
Oct
20
2019
2020
2022
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Save Page Now
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20200920054706/http://www.fao.org/3/ab776e/ab776e02.htm
 MALAYSIA’S WATER VISION: THE
WAY FORWARD - The Malaysian Water Partnership
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
In support of Vision 2020 (towards achieving developed nation status), 
        Malaysia will conserve and manage its water resources to ensure adequate 
        and safe water for all (including the environment). Such is the Malaysian 
        vision for water in the 21st century.
      The key objectives of the vision are as follows:
      
 Water for people: all have access to safe, adequate and affordable 
          water supply, hygiene and sanitation.
 Water for food and rural development: provision of sufficient 
          water that will ensure national food security and promote rural development.
 Water for economic development: provision of sufficient water 
          to spur and sustain economic growth within the context of a knowledge-based 
          economy and e-commerce.
 Water for the environment: protection of the water environment 
          to preserve water resources (both surface water and groundwater) and 
          natural flow regimes, bio-diversity and the cultural heritage, along 
          with mitigation of water-related hazards.
      The set of initiatives that need to take place in order to achieve the key 
      objectives of the vision is evaluated based on the four challenges towards 
      a better water future, which are (a) managing our water resources efficiently 
      and effectively (addressing both quantity and quality aspects), (b) moving 
      towards integrated river basin management, (c) translating awareness into 
      political will and capacity and (d) moving towards adequate, safe and affordable 
      water services, as will befit developed-nation status by 2020.
      The actions for a better water future are also determined based on milestones 
        and targets and they have to do with (a) institutional and legal aspects, 
        (b) participatory approach in the decision-making process, (c) development 
        of innovative technologies, (d) efficient use of water resources, (e) 
        extensive research and development, (f) shift from water-supply to water-demand 
        management, (g) establishment of river basin organizations, (h) integrated 
        water resources management, (i) promotion of water awareness and water 
        education, (j) promotion of networking in the water sector, (k) good databases 
        and dissemination, (l) resource assessment, monitoring and protection, 
        (m) water ecosystems protection, (n) flood and drought contingency plans, 
        (o) water-quality management, (p) frequent dialogues with the stakeholders, 
        (q) a Water Sector Master Plan and (r) formation of a National Water Institute.
      The way forward to realize the national water vision is to establish 
        associated programmes in the Eighth Malaysian Plan (2001-2005) and the 
        Third Outline Perspective Plan (2001-2010)
I. PREFACEMalaysia is rich in water resources, whose development has
been the basis for the socio-economic development of the country over the past
decades. Lately, the water supply situation for the country has changed from one
of relative abundance to one of scarcity. Population growth and urbanization,
industrialization and the expansion of irrigated agriculture are imposing
rapidly increasing demands and pressure on water resources, besides contributing
to the rising water pollution. The way forward to a prosperous and sustainable
future is to keep development to a level that is within the carrying capacity of
the river basins while protecting and restoring the environment.The objective of the water vision is to move from where we are
today to where we need to be to meet future water needs and ensure sustainable
use of water. This exercise involves a process of study, consultation and
promotion which will develop knowledge at the national level, produce a
consensus on a vision for water for the year 2025, raise awareness on water
issues among the population and decision-makers and generate a framework for
action. This framework will set the basis for the development of a detailed
action plan to help move from the concept outlined in the vision to tangible
results - making every drop count - which will make a real difference in
people’s lives. It is a route map to take us from our present situation to
the vision for 2025.The Malaysian water visioning process is undertaken by both
the Malaysian Water Partnership (MWP) and the Malaysian National Committee for
Irrigation and Drainage (MANCID). MANCID has conducted sectoral consultations
with respect to water for food and rural development at both national and
regional levels. MWP is the national consultative body on the water sector and
has conducted a series of five national consultations on the water sector with
respect to the mapping of needs and the national water vision, global sectoral
visions, the framework for action, gender and water, and the realization of the
national water vision.This paper was prepared as part of the latest consultations
organized in the context of the regional FAO-ESCAP cooperation initiative to
build on previous achievements of the national water visioning processes to
identify priority activities for national action and further regional
cooperation in the water resources sector. As a result, efforts are being made
to incorporate the framework of action for the realization of the national water
vision into the future national development plan and other related
plans.II. INTRODUCTIONMalaysia receives an average annual rainfall of 3 000 mm.
Water resources development has been a catalyst for the socio-economic
development of the country during the past decades. Dams and kilometres of
pipelines and canals divert water from rivers to sustain domestic, industrial
and agricultural needs. Lately, the water situation for the country has changed
from one of relative abundance to one of scarcity. Population growth,
urbanization, industrialization and the expansion of irrigated agriculture are
imposing rapidly growing demands and pressures on the water resources, besides
contributing to the rising water pollution. Water management is becoming
increasingly comprehensive and complicated due to large concentrations of
population, commercial activities and industries around the cities and towns,
increasing water consumption, increasing water pollution, increasing land use
conflicts and climate changes. At the same time, any new development of water
resources to meet the ever-increasing demand faces rigorous scrutiny from
environmentalists and conservationists.The way forward to a prosperous and sustainable future is by
keeping development to a level that is within the carrying capacity of the river
basins while protecting and restoring the environment. Integrated water
resources management (IWRM) should be adopted in managing the water sector and
the catchment. IWRM is an approach towards integrating and effectively
coordinating policies, programmes and practices addressing water-related issues,
which takes into consideration the various aspects of socio-economic development
and the conservation of the environment.This paper attempts to outline a desirable water scenario in
the country for the year 2025 and provides a description of the national water
sector which the Malaysians would like to have in 2025, including a strategy to
achieve the vision. The introduction is followed by a description of the World
Water Vision and national water vision processes and of the objectives of the
vision and framework for action. Section II describes the management of water
resources, with an overview of the water sector, a presentation of the main
issues and challenges facing the Malaysian water sector, and a possible scenario
for the future. Sections III and IV describe the national water vision and the
national framework for action. The conclusion is given in Section V.1. The world water vision processThe World Water Vision project was initiated by the World
Water Council. WWC, which was established in 1996, is an international water
policy think-tank co-sponsored by the Food and Agriculture Organization, the
United Nations Environment Programme, the United Nations Development Programme,
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the World
Health Organization, the World Meteorological Organization and the World Bank.
WWC has undertaken to develop a long-term vision on water, life and the
environment, known as World Water Vision, through the establishment of a World
Commission on Water for the 21st Century on 11 August 1998. The
commission is expected to prepare a long-term vision for addressing the issues
of water in the next century, that is to say, to develop a widely shared vision
on the actions required for tackling water issues globally, regionally and
nationally.The establishment of the commission was decided by WWC in
response to the unanimous recommendations of the international community at the
first World Water Forum held on 21-22 March 1997 in Marrakech, Morocco, and at
the Water and Sustainable Development Conference, held in Paris on 19-21 March
1998.The project to develop a world water vision is characterized
by a participatory approach with extensive consultation and innovative
futuristic thinking emphasizing communication with groups beyond the water
sector. The vision is expected to be global, including both developed and
developing regions, but with special attention given to the needs of developing
countries and of the poor. The visioning process uses two types of consultation,
i.e. sectoral and regional.The sectoral consultations illustrate the notion that all
water subsectors are necessary parts of an integrated water management approach.
The sectoral vision demonstrates the perceived critical issues, strategic
directions and trends or discontinuities likely to affect a particular subsector
over the next 25 years. Twelve subsectors are considered and the four main ones
are water for people, water for food and rural development, water and nature,
and water in rivers. The sectoral visions are arrived at through network
consultations.The appropriate scale for resolving water resource issues,
though, is not necessarily global but regional or local. The central idea behind
regional visions is that they encapsulate widely shared views on how water
resources should be used, allocated or shared and managed in the region over the
long term to meet the needs of the people while maintaining a sustainable
balance between demand and supply. The regional consultations are conducted in
close collaboration with the regional technical advisory committees of the
Global Water Partnership and the International Hydrological Programme of UNESCO.
There are 22 regional consultations and one of the regions is Southeast
Asia.Both the sectoral and regional visions will contribute to the
overall World Water Vision. The World Water Vision prescribes the desired future
and the actions needed for the sustainable use of water resources to become a
reality. The results of the world water visioning process were presented and
debated at the Second World Water Forum and Ministerial Conference that took
place on 17-22 March 2000 in The Hague.2. The national water vision processThe Malaysian water visioning process is undertaken by both
the Malaysian Water Partnership (MWP) and the Malaysian National Committee for
Irrigation and Drainage (MANCID). MANCID has conducted sectoral consultations
with respect to water for food and rural development at both national (9 January
1999) and regional levels (17-19 May 1999). The latter was conducted in
collaboration with the International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage for
the East Asia region.MWP is the national consultative body on the water sector. It
was formed out of a recommendation made at the National Consultation on
Integrated Water Resources Management, which was held in Kuala Lumpur on 29
November 1997; this meeting was assisted by GWP SEATAC. Five top issues in
integrated water resources management were identified: (a) lack of a coherent
national water policy; (b) need for concerted efforts in capacity building; (c)
lack of a comprehensive database; (d) lack of coordination, and (e) lack of
integrated planning and management. MWP is made up of nine core national
agencies which are its executive members. The total institutional membership of
MWP is 77, comprising government agencies, private-sector companies, water user
groups, non-governmental organizations and research institutions. MWP has
conducted a series of five national consultations on the water sector as
follows:
 Water sector mapping and vision (28 June 1999) in collaboration with GWP 
    SEATAC, which contributed to the identification of gaps, and to the need for 
    strategic assistance, in integrated water resources management. This meeting 
    also contributed to the preparation of the regional water vision (Southeast 
    Asia).
 A national consultation (18 December 1999) to deliberate on the drafts 
    of the four main sectoral visions, i.e. water for people, water for food and 
    rural development, water and nature, and water in rivers; the comments from 
    this consultation were forwarded to the respective organizations or authors 
    for action.
 From vision to action (18 February 2000) to formulate a framework for action 
    to realize the water vision. The representatives from the “water in rivers” 
    and “gender and water” secretariats at the global level also addressed 
    the meeting.
 Gender analysis in the water sector (21 February 2000) to address gender 
    disparities in access to and control of water and the contribution of women 
    in water resources management. The meeting was led by Ms Kusum Athukorala, 
    the Gender Ambassador from the World Water Vision to South East Asia and South 
    Asia.
 Towards realizing the national water vision (23-24 May 2000) in collaboration 
    with ESCAP and FAO to reconfirm the national water vision and strategy, identify 
    priority actions and recommend actions for regional cooperation.
3. Objectives of the vision and of the framework for
actionThe objective of the water vision is to move from where we are
today to where we need to be to meet future water needs and ensure the
sustainable use of water. This exercise involves a process of study,
consultation and promotion, which will:
 develop knowledge on what is happening in the national water sector, and 
    on trends and developments outside the water sector that may affect future 
    water use; based on this knowledge, produce a consensus on a vision for water 
    for the year 2025 to be shared by water sector specialists and decision-makers 
    in the government, the private sector and civil society;
 raise awareness on water issues among the population and decision-makers 
    in order to foster the political will and leadership necessary to achieve 
    the vision; and
 use the knowledge and support generated to contribute to the framework 
    for action.
The framework for action is designed to lay the basis for the
development of detailed action plans to help move from the concepts outlined in
the vision to tangible results - making every drop count - that will make a real
difference in people’s lives. It is a route map to take us from our present
situation to the vision for 2025. The framework will provide an analysis of the
practical consequences of the strategic choices emerging from the vision and
develop a clear picture of the range of actions and policies to use in the
various water domains - water for the people, for food, for nature and so on.
Second, it will translate these analyses into proposals for innovative policy
measures, institutions, management instruments, investment priorities and
implementation guidelines for integrated water resources at the various levels.
These potential actions will be challenge-oriented, in that they will aim to
overcome specific threats as well as foster positive developments and
process-oriented mechanisms aimed at securing or facilitating the implementation
of the strategy.III. WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT1. Water sector overviewMalaysia lies entirely in the equatorial zone. The climate is
governed by the yearly alternation of the northeast and southwest monsoons. The
northeast monsoon occurs from November till March, and the southwest monsoon
between May and September. The northeast monsoon brings heavy rains and
extensive flooding to the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia, while the west
coast receives relatively little rain during the southwest monsoon owing to the
sheltering effect of the mountains in Sumatra.The maximum and minimum mean air temperatures are 33.4°C
and 22.8°C respectively. The highest and lowest recorded annual rainfall
are 5 130 mm (Sarawak, 1994) and 1 350 mm (Perlis, 1992) respectively. As for
the number of rainfall days, the maximum recorded is 260 (Sarawak, 1995). The
mean annual relative air humidity varies between 78 and 87 percent; this high
humidity is due to the high temperature and high rate of evaporation. All parts
of the country receive an average of 1 764 to 2 664 bright sunshine hours a
year. These data are based on the last ten-year records (1989-1999).The water resources in Malaysia are summarized in Table 1.
Groundwater accounts for 90 percent of the freshwater resources. The renewable
water resources are 630 billion m3 - the summation of surface runoff
and groundwater recharge. This translates into an annual average water
availability of about 28 400 m3 per capita. Based on this fact,
Malaysia is a country with abundant water resources.Table 1. Water resources in Malaysia
Annual rainfall
990 billion m3 (Ref 1)
Surface runoff
566 billion m3
Evapo-transpiration
360 billion m3
Groundwater recharge
64 billion m3
Surface artificial storage (dams)
25 billion m3 (Ref 2)
Groundwater storage (aquifers)
5 000 billion m3 (Ref 3)
Streams and rivers with and without impounding reservoirs
contribute 98 percent of total water used in Malaysia; the remainder is
contributed by groundwater. River flow regimes are irregular and to secure safe
yield from surface water sources, storage facilities were constructed.
Currently, there are 47 single-purpose and 16 multipurpose dams (Table 2) with a
total storage capacity of 25 billion m3. The main reason for the lack
of groundwater use in the country is the easy availability of surface water
resources; there are over 150 river systems in Malaysia (Ref 3).Table 2. Dams in Malaysia
Single-purpose dams
Water supply
34
Hydropower
7
Irrigation
3
Silt retention
3
Subtotal
47
Multipurpose dams
Water supply + Irrigation
6
Water supply + Flood mitigation
5
Water supply + Irrigation + Flood mitigation
2
Hydropower + Flood mitigation
2
Hydropower + Water supply
1
Subtotal
16
Source: (Ref 2)The water demand for 1980 and 1990 and the projected demand
for 2000 are given in Table 3; the values within the brackets refer to the
proportions of the total water use. Table 4 shows the national water supply
production capacity and coverage and non-revenue water (NRW) for 1990 and the
projected figures for 2000. Due to the rapid population increase and the rapid
growth of industries, the annual water demand for the domestic and industrial
sector has been expanding at the rate of about 12 percent. By 2020, the domestic
and industrial sector is projected to be the main water user in the
country.Table 3. Water demand for 1980 and 1990 and projected
demand in 2000
Water user
1980
1990
2000
Domestic and industry
1.3 billion m3 (18 %)
2.6 billion m3 (20 %)
4.8 billion m3 (23 %)
Irrigation
7.4 billion m3 (80 %)
9.0 billion m3 (78 %)
10.4 billion m3 (75 %)
Other
0.2 billion m3 (2 %)
0.2 billion m3 (2 %)
0.3 billion m3 (2 %)
Source: (Ref 4)Table 4. Water supply production capacity and coverage
and non-revenue water for 1990, and projected figures for 2000
Item
1990
2000
Production capacity
6,103 mld (2.2 billion m3)
11,800 mld (4.3 billion m3)
National coverage (%)
80
95
Urban coverage (%)
96
99
Rural coverage (%)
67
83
Non-revenue water (%)
43
38
Source: (Ref 4)Irrigation development primarily caters for the double
cropping of paddy to meet the dual objective of increasing food production and
raising farmers’ income. There are 564 000 hectares of wet paddy land in
Malaysia, 322 000 hectares of which are capable of double cropping through the
provision of irrigation facilities. Irrigation efficiency is about 50 percent
for the larger schemes, though some of the smaller schemes operate at an
efficiency of perhaps less than 40 percent.With respect to sanitation, in 1980 the government adopted the
policy that all new housing developments of more than 30 units must have a
complete sewerage infrastructure, including their own local sewage treatment
plants. In 1994, the public sewerage services were privatized. Almost all of the
urban population have access to sanitation facilities. About 79 percent of the
urban population has access to the central sewerage system and 98 percent of the
rural population is provided with pour-flush latrines (Ref 5).Hydropower development was given emphasis through the
four-fuel (oil, gas, coal, hydropower) energy strategy of the 1980s as it is a
clean and renewable resource. Energy self-sufficiency is achieved by maximizing
the development and use of indigenous energy resources. In 1998, the share of
hydropower to total power generation was less than ten percent. The aggregate
energy production of hydropower plants in operation and of prospective projects
that have been identified or investigated is less than 30 percent of the
technical potential. The gross hydropower potential of the country has been
estimated at 29 000 MW, about 85 percent of which is in the states of Sabah and
Sarawak.Water quality has become an important concern as a direct
consequence of accelerated economic development in the past two decades. Table 5
shows the water quality of the selected rivers for the period 1992-1998. In the
case of groundwater quality, the preliminary findings of the monitoring
programme, which began in 1996 in Peninsular Malaysia, did not show the presence
of any significant contaminant in the groundwater, except around solid waste
dumping sites. A similar groundwater-monitoring programme is being implemented
in Sabah and Sarawak.Table 5. Quality of river water, 1992-1998
Category
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
No.
%
No.
%
No.
%
No.
%
No.
%
No.
%
No.
%
Very polluted
7
8.1
11
9.5
14
12.1
14
12.2
13
11.2
25
21.4
16
13
Slightly polluted
55
63.2
73
62.9
64
55.2
53
46.1
61
52.6
68
58.1
71
59
Clean
25
28.7
32
27.6
38
32.7
48
41.7
42
36.2
24
20.5
33
28
Total
87
100
116
100
116
100
115
100
116
100
117
100
120
100
Source: (Ref 6)2. Main issues and challenges facing the Malaysian water
sectorThe main issues and challenges facing the Malaysian water
sector which affect the sustainability of development, allocation of
water among users and the efforts of the people to achieve a better living are
briefly discussed below.a) Institutional and legal issuesThere is no single agency in the country entrusted with the
overall responsibility of holistic planning and management of water. Conflicts
in water resources management such as allocation of water rights, flood
management, pollution control, environmental protection, etc, are resolved
through inter-agency coordination and consultation. However, at the federal
level, a National Water Resources Council (NWRC) has been set up to pursue a
more effective water management, including the implementation of interstate
water transfers.Malaysia suffers from a plethora of sector-based water laws,
both at federal and state levels, and from the lack of a comprehensive water
law. At present, water legislation is contained within the laws that are
enforced by the various water-related government agencies, and many of these
laws are outdated, redundant or ambiguous. This diversified water legislation
focuses on limited aspects of water resources and water supply directly related
to the responsibilities of the respective government agencies and thus difficult
to enforce effectively.b) Increased competition for waterThe growth in population and GDP over the last three decades
has resulted in heavy demand for water. The problem of population growth is
particularly felt in the urban areas, due to rural-urban migration and growing
urbanization. The exponential growth in urban population has stretched the
government’s ability to answer infrastructure and service needs and provide
the environmental conditions required for better living. Often the supporting
infrastructure for the collection, treatment and disposal of sewage and solid
wastes is inadequate to cope with the amounts generated. This state of affairs
raises problems of water and air pollution, public health and urban
environmental degradation.The increased demand for the limited and diminishing supply of
clean water available has led to competition among the various water users, a
competition the continued economic growth exacerbates increasingly. In addition,
as the readily available portion of water resources has already been developed
for use in practically all regions of major water demand, future water resources
development will require the construction of more storage dams. These are not
only costly to build: there’s a high price to pay in environmental terms as
well. Furthermore, the practicable limit of surface water resources development
has been reached in some regions of high demand, and it has become necessary to
consider inter-basin and interstate surface water transfer schemes.c) Increased flooding problemsIronically, at times of water shortages, parts of Malaysia
face significant flood problems. Although floods are natural phenomena arising
from excessive rainfall overwhelming existing waterways for a while,
uncontrolled development activities in watershed areas and along river corridors
can increase the severity of floods. The high rate of sedimentation in the
rivers has adversely affected their drainage capacity, leading to more frequent
floods in downstream areas and to more intense flooding. Incidences of flash
floods in urban areas are on the rise due to the runoff characteristics of
built-up areas.The high rainfall during the monsoon results in large areas
being subjected to flooding. It has been estimated that altogether about 29 000
km2 or nine percent of the total land area of Malaysia are
flood-prone, affecting some 12 percent of the population. The average annual
flood damage was estimated at RM100 million in 1980, but this has increased due
to urban expansion and the escalation of land and property prices.Absolute control over floods is rarely feasible either
physically or economically. However, flood mitigation measures are undertaken to
reduce flood damage to a minimum, consistent with the cost involved. Besides the
construction of dams and reservoirs and the improvement of river systems,
measures to increase infiltration and to store the excess water in small ponds
and retention basins are being promoted. The Department of Irrigation and
Drainage produces a storm water management manual to address the incidence of
flash floods in urban areas.d) Environmental degradationThe development of public utilities such as water supply,
sewerage, and urban drainage and flood mitigation programmes helps to promote
economic growth and improve the quality of life. However, this economic
development and the resulting rapid urbanization and industrialization have
given rise to problems of increased water pollution.The main sources of organic water pollution are domestic and
industrial sewage, effluent from palm oil mills, rubber factories and animal
husbandry. Mining operations, housing and road development, logging and clearing
of forest are major causes of high concentration of suspended sediments in the
rivers. In several urban and industrial areas, organic pollution of water has
resulted in environmental problems and adversely affected aquatic life. In
addition to organic wastes, rivers remain a convenient means of solid waste
disposal. A major portion of household refuse which is not collected, burnt or
buried finds its way into drains and rivers. In the Klang Valley, an estimated
80 tons of waste ends up in the river system every day. River water quality and
pollution control need to be addressed urgently since 98 percent of the total
water used originates from rivers. Almost all of the investments in
water-related infrastructure depend on reasonable river water quality.e) Low efficiency of water useEfficiency of water use in general is low. Irrigation
efficiency is in the range of 40 to 50 percent, because almost all of the
irrigation systems are open systems designed to take advantage of flooding. As
irrigation water is charged on a per-area basis rather than on volume used and
is relatively cheap, there is little incentive for farmers to use the water
efficiently. There is also a high proportion of unaccounted-for water in urban
water supply systems, as one quarter to one third of the domestic and industrial
water is lost before it reaches the consumers. These losses are the result of
leaks in the distribution systems and of illegal connections. As the physical
limits of water supply are being reached, more emphasis is now placed on
reducing the losses and thus increasing the net supply through improved
efficiency in water use.f) Increased expectations of the peopleSince Independence, Malaysia has undergone rapid economic and
social development and, together with better education, this has boosted
people’s expectations of better standards of living. Water shortages and
flooding are no longer thought of as natural disasters to be endured and
accepted. At the same time, environmental awareness in the country has grown, as
reflected in the growing number of public complaints on environmental pollution.
This reflects both the increase in the number of pollution sources due to the
higher level of economic activities or the encroachment of new housing areas
around existing factories or industries, and a greater awareness of the dangers
of environmental pollution.The increased expectations of the people will bring about
heavier demands on the water resources, both for water supply and for pollution
control. In the context of increased demand from population growth and
industrialization competing for diminishing water availability, the need
for optimum utilization of water takes on greater urgency, moving towards
efficiency and effectiveness of use, as well as conservation and
sustainability.3. A possible water scenario (Ref 7)A quarter century ago when the idea was mooted, Malaysia,
which attained developed status in 2020, five years ahead of schedule,
simultaneously realized and sustained the supporting vision “to ensure
adequate and safe water for all”. The country now prides itself on having a
water sector that is managed efficiently and in an integrated manner. This
became possible largely through smart partnership agreements entered, as early
as the start of the new millennium, between the states and the federal
government and facilitated by the National Water Resources Council. Water, apart
from being regarded as an economic and social commodity, was recognized as an
essential convenience calling for cooperation rather than conflict.Efficiency of water use in all subsectors is high and
comparable to the best in the world, facilitated by the adoption of appropriate
technologies, management systems and practices developed through continuing
investments in R&D. Demand management is widely practiced and water is
reused and recycled, wherever possible. These efforts have contributed to an
overall reduction in per-capita water withdrawal and in the use of water
resources in the country.Uniform and innovative policies and legislation implemented in
all states provided the enabling environment together with the legal and
financial instruments to effectively deal with the rational development of the
water sector for equitable allocation to all users, to answer domestic,
industrial, agricultural, hydropower and ecosystem needs.Strong institutions built around river basin entities manage
both land and water matters in an integrated manner, supported by well thought
out catchment and river basin management plans and using comprehensive databases
and decision support systems models. Successful implementation of sound
communication strategies and programmes has led to stakeholders and the
community being involved in planning and management, especially at the local
level.These strategic actions and initiatives have made it possible
for the people to enjoy uninterrupted, safe and quality water “on tap”
and at affordable prices. Pricing policies have enabled cost recovery for
investments and encouraged competitive water delivery services through greater
private-sector participation.The adoption of eco-friendly farming and industrial practices,
provision of extensive sewerage services and waste management systems, and
strict enforcement, have reduced significantly point and non-point pollution
sources. These measures have contributed to a reversal of trends in the
pollution of water sources. Most rivers now, including the Klang River, have
been fully restored. Aquatic life has returned to once polluted rivers. Tourism
and recreation flourish in the water environment.In the agricultural sector, productivity expressed in crop
yields per unit of water are comparable to the best in the world, the result of
improved water management and farming systems adopting high-yielding crop
varieties that have been tested bio-safe.Water shortages are no longer an issue. Most flooding has been
mitigated through both structural and non-structural means except in extreme
monsoon flood events, for which early-warning systems and flood fighting and
rescue measures are in place.IV. THE NATIONAL WATER VISION1. The national vision messagesBased on the visioning process conducted at the national
consultation meeting held on 28 June 1999, the national water vision has been
formulated as follows:In support of Vision 2020 (towards
achieving developed-nation status), Malaysia will conserve and manage its
water resources to ensure adequate and safe water for all (including the
environment).The key objectives of the vision are as follows:
 Water for people: all have access to safe, adequate and affordable 
    water supply, hygiene and sanitation.
 Water for food and rural development: provision of sufficient water 
    that will ensure national food security and promote rural development.
 Water for economic development: provision of sufficient water to 
    spur and sustain economic growth within the context of a knowledge-based economy 
    and e-commerce.
 Water for the environment: protection of the water environment to 
    preserve water resources (both surface and groundwater) and natural flow regimes, 
    biodiversity and the cultural heritage, and mitigation of water-related hazards.
2. Driving forces in the water sectorAs a result of the visioning exercise, a number of driving
forces were identified which are expected to greatly affect the water sector
scenario in the first quarter of the 21st century. These can be
categorized under demographic, social, economic, environmental and
technological, and governance headings.The three demographic driving forces identified are:
(a) continued population growth, (b) rapid urbanization and (c) migration
patterns. These will have broad implications, including increased demand for
municipal water, expansion of irrigated agriculture to produce more food,
conversion of agricultural land for urban and industrial expansion, and
pollution of water resources by urban, industrial and agricultural wastewater
discharges.Lifestyles and cultural preferences and prevalent poverty will
continue to be an important social concern affecting the sector.
Affluence increases water consumption, often to the point of overuse.The driving forces in the economic setting are the
adoption of market-based economic policies, the availability and condition of
water, and industrialization. These will lead to further pressure on water
resources due to increasing demand for industrial use and increasing water
pollution due to industrial effluents.In the environmental arena, the driving forces expected
to affect the sector include: (a) overexploitation and/or pollution of surface
and groundwater, (b) the decreasing integrity and health of aquatic ecosystems
and (c) climatic changes. The most powerful trend, however, is the increasing
public concern over environmental degradation; it will contribute an important
and useful perspective to the process of decision-making in resource development
and management.The technology identified as having great potential
impact on the water sector relates to efficient water use and distribution, to
water pollution, and to the selection of drought-, pest- and salt-resistant
crops that are expected to reduce water usage and, subsequently, enhance water
availability. This will include water reuse and water-recycling technology and
the use of renewable energies in the water sector.The driving forces related to governance include
institutional and legal reforms and stakeholder participation in the process of
decision-making in water resources management. This will also include the shift
from water supply management to water demand management and the management of
water resources within the carrying capacity of the river basins.V. NATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONThe set of initiatives that need to take place in order to
achieve the key objectives of the vision is evaluated based on the four
challenges towards a better water future. These challenges are:
 Managing our water resources efficiently and effectively (addressing 
    both quantity and quality aspects) - Increasing water demand as a result 
    of population growth and industrialization, further compounded by the degradation 
    of land and water resources, point to the need to efficiently and effectively 
    manage water resources.
 Moving towards integrated river basin management - The river basin 
    is a geographical unit with a well-defined boundary that defines the totality 
    of the hydrological process and transcends political and administrative limits. 
    It is therefore the ideal management unit to address water problems.
 Translating awareness into political will and capacity - The non-existence 
    of sector leadership and political will to implement much-needed reforms has 
    resulted in a deterioration of water quality, a decrease in water availability 
    and conflicts among users (irrigation, hydropower, industry and domestic users). 
    There is therefore a need to instil awareness on the economic, social and 
    environmental value of water among politicians, decision-makers and other 
    stakeholders in the water sector.
 Moving towards adequate, safe and affordable water services as will 
    befit developed-nation status by 2020 - Inadequate infrastructure, lack 
    of public awareness in water resources management, and inappropriate water 
    policies have had a negative impact on the water sector. In general, existing 
    water distribution systems for domestic use and irrigation are largely inefficient 
    and fast deteriorating. There is a need for legislation and policies to encourage 
    private-sector participation.
The challenges, strategic orientations and actions suggested
are given in Table 6, overleaf.The assumptions underlying the success of the actions are (i)
the existence of strong political will, (ii) availability of financial and
technical resources from government or development partners and private sector
ventures, (iii) effective institutional set-up, (iv) effective enforcement, (v)
sustained joint ventures through public-private partnership and (vi) networking
at national, regional and global levels.Table 6. Framework for action
Challenge
Action
Managing our water resources efficiently and effectively (addressing 
        both quantity and quality aspects)
 The strategy is to:
      
 Practice integrated water resources management
 Balance withdrawal/use and conservation of water
 Manage water resources effectively and efficiently
 Protect and allocate water equitably
 Formulate a national water policy and comprehensive water legislation 
          and guidelines
 Establish an efficient institutional framework, such as river basin 
          authorities
 Ensure stakeholder participation in the decision-making process
 Achieve capacity building within water-related institutions and promote 
          water awareness in all water-using sectors
 Develop innovative technologies with respect to wise water use, water 
          and wastewater treatment, water reuse and recycling and alternative 
          water sources
 Engage in extensive research and development in the water management 
          sector
 Institute efficient water demand and water supply management
Moving towards integrated river basin management
 The strategy is to:
      
 Develop federal, state and cross-sectoral coordination mechanisms 
          for river basin management
 Develop mechanisms for effective stakeholder participation
 Ensure equitable sharing of water resources in each river basin
 Manage river basins through the ecosystem approach
 Minimize water pollution, floods and drought
 Enable the National Water Resources Council to oversee interstate 
          cooperation on water resources development and river management, including 
          the development of a national water policy
 Establish a state-level cross-sectoral coordination institution
 Organize regular state and national workshops involving all stakeholders
 Develop pilot projects in selected river basins
 Promote networking and better organization of stakeholders
 Ensure easy access to information
 Carry out assessment studies/protection for each river basin
 Develop water use/allocation policies and master plans for each river 
          basin
 Introduce incentives/disincentives towards equitable water distribution
 Assess the ecosystem status, services and sensitivity in each river 
          basin
 Designate ecosystems for protection and restoration
 Establish monitoring and enforcement mechanisms
 Develop a flood-control master plan and drought contingency plans, 
          including land-use guidelines for each catchment
 Develop water-quality management taking into consideration the carrying 
          capacity of the rivers and sustainable development indicators
 Map out all the river basins and develop river basin classification/carrying 
          capacity schemes to guide future development/environment control activities
 Tackle hill/slope development and associated erosion and sedimentation
Translating awareness into political will and capacity
The strategy is to:
      
 Promote political awareness of the water sector
 Mobilize mass media/NGOs over water awareness
 Develop multi-stakes discussion and dialogues on relevant solutions
 Monitor the implementation of agreed solutions and amend the policies 
          based on the feedback
 Submit information/recommendations for the water sector to the highest 
          authority
 Provide the water sector with enough staff and adequate training
 Ensure water sector networking (national, regional and international)
 Strengthen water-related institutions
 Build up the water sector database and make for easy dissemination
 Encourage dialogue among stakeholders at different levels and locations 
          and publish the outcome of the consultations
 Have the sustainability of the water sector monitored by independent 
          groups
 Use the recommendations by monitoring bodies to amend strategies
 Promote wise water use by all users
 Introduce the ‘polluters pay’ principle
 Set up an effective enforcement agency
Moving towards adequate, safe and affordable water services befitting 
        developed-nation status by 2020
The strategy is to:
      
 Provide safe water to all
 Adopt water-demand management
 Improve wastewater management
 Improve governance
Go for capacity building
 Promote public-private partnership
 Review and update standards regularly
 Develop a master plan for supply management
 Continuously improve water technology
 Practice good governance
 Introduce water-related curricula into the education system
 Promote greater cooperation among all stakeholders
 Introduce acceptable water-pricing mechanisms
 Enhance opportunities for water training
 Set up a national water institute to look into the best practices 
          in the water sector
 Enhance research on high-yield and drought-resistant crops
 Institute efficient water supply systems
1. Implementation of the national water
visionThe key policies and the players, milestones and financial
resources needed in the implementation of the national water vision are given in
Table 7.Table 7. Implementation of the national water
vision
Key policies
Players
Milestones
Financial resources
1. Endorsement and acceptance of the national water vision by
all stakeholders 
· Economic Planning Unit
(EPU)· MWP· Related state
agencies
2001
RM200 000
2. Establishment of river basin organizations 
· National Water Resources
Council· State Legislative Council
(SLC)
2010
RM2 000 000 per state
3. Establishment of a mechanism for coordination and
monitoring 
· NWRC· EPU/Implementation
Coordination Unit· State EPUs (SEPU)· SLC· Water regulators
· National water policy:
2001· Contemporary legislation:
2003-2005· Water resource allocation:
2003-2005· Water pricing policy:
2003· Institutional transformation
and capacity building: 2005· Water standards (raw, treated
and effluent): 2005
4. Sensitize, and facilitate the involvement of, NGOs in the
implementation of the framework for action
· MWP
2005
RM250 000
5. Enhancement of public awareness of the national water
vision
· MWP· Min. of Education· Min. of Information
2005
6. Establishment of a mechanism for participatory management
of stakeholders in all subsectors
· Operating agencies
2010
7. Maintain and regularize dialogue among key partners of the
national water vision
· MWP
Annually
RM80 000 for 2 workshops per year
NB: MWP: Malaysian Water
Partnership2. The Eighth Malaysian Plan (2001-2005) and the Third
Outline Perspective Plan (2001-2010)The Malaysian Water Partnership should be invited by the
Economic Planning Unit to be a member of the technical working group preparing
the Eighth Malaysian Plan (2001-2005) and the Third Outline Perspective Plan
(2001-2010). The immediate issues that need to be addressed in both plans are
shown in Table 8.Table 8. Water sector issues to be addressed in the
Eighth Malaysian Plan (2001-2005) and the Third Outline Perspective Plan
(2001-2010)
Issue
Remark and action
1. National water vision
The adoption of a national water vision to ensure continuous
supply of water in terms of quantity and quality to meet all needs, including
those of the environment. This vision shall be one of the main agenda in the
sustainable national development plan. The strategy guidelines and plan of
action to realize the vision are formulated, adopted and disseminated to all
stakeholders, so that everybody is committed to conserve water resources and
their ecosystems. Water is everybody’s business.
2. Policy and law
The national water policy shall be formulated by the federal
government and adopted by the state governments. The policy encompasses
integrated management of land and water resources based on river basins, and the
protection of watersheds and aquifers. The policy guides interstate water
transfers, allocation of water to users, dam monitoring and safety, and
development activities in watersheds, including the vicinity of dam reservoirs.
Contemporary laws are enacted to facilitate the implementation of the national
water policy and shall be adopted by the state governments.
3. River basin organizations
The state governments are recommended to set up water
management institutions similar to the Selangor Water Management Authority
(LUAS). This will contribute to the implementation of best practice in the
management of water resources to ensure sustained supply of good-quality water.
Laws are enacted to support these institutions. The human resources of the
institutions comprise inter-discipline water professionals able to overcome
present and future challenges in the national water sector.
4. Pollution
Activities which pollute water resources are monitored and
corrected. The surveillance of watersheds is assisted by remote-sensing
techniques to detect illegal activities and overcome water pollution problems.
The polluted rivers are restored in stages, with the participation of all
stakeholders. Awareness campaigns are made among the riverine population and the
parties responsible for the water-polluting activities. The principle of
‘polluters pay’ will be enforced. The programme of restoration of
water resources will only be successful if it begins at source, that is, with
the control of polluting sources.
5. Groundwater
Groundwater exploration programmes are implemented, especially
in the main river basins, to identify potential aquifers, and protection zones
are provided to safeguard this important resource. Guidelines for the
development of potential polluting activities and the appropriate laws will be
formulated and enforced.
6. Water-demand management
Water-supply management shall be replaced by water-demand
management in order to minimize the exploitation of new water sources to meet
the increasing water demand. Water-demand management consists of all activities
to increase efficiency in water supply and water usage and promote water
recycling. Incentives will be given to industries that practice water reuse
since they contribute directly to water-demand management and to the reduction
of effluents. New housing, commercial and industrial estates shall be fitted
with water-saving devices, including rainwater harvesting devices, and the new
drainage concept of zero peak flow contribution from developed areas shall be
implemented.
7. Research and development
R&D activities in the water sector are enhanced and the
water sector becomes a major sector in the Intensified Research Priority Areas
programme. A centre is established to coordinate R&D activities, provide
direction for research, allocate funding and act as the National Database and
Reference Centre. The centre is staffed with water professionals from different
disciplines and incentives are provided to attract the best local and foreign
water professionals.
VI. CONCLUSIONSThe effective implementation of integrated water resources
management (IWRM) will contribute to the realization of the national water
vision in 2025. Reform and initiatives are needed to provide an adequate and
enabling environment for this purpose. They include:
 An IWRM awareness-raising campaign in political and technical circles and 
    among the public to gain active support at all levels.
 Reform of the institutional framework for the integrated planning and regulation 
    of water resources, the water rights system and environmental issues (through 
    legislation).
 Strict implementation and enforcement of laws and policies and streamlining 
    of the bureaucracy (through executive orders).
 Improvement of data and information, including a review and rehabilitation 
    of the data collection network for surface water, groundwater and water quality.
 Enhanced transfer of knowledge and information based on global experiences 
    and best practices on all aspects of IWRM - policy, law, management procedures, 
    etc.
 Capacity building for both professionals and institutions.
 Research and development to develop and disseminate knowledge, methods 
    and tools to facilitate comprehension of the complex water system, forecast 
    its long-term dynamics and compare the impact of various policies and management 
    approaches with the institutional framework.
Many different visions can be described. Without some positive
vision, without some thought about what truly sustainable water use means,
Malaysia risks continuing on a path that will take her further and further in
the wrong direction. Whether we succeed in ensuring that the future we want is
the future we get will depend almost entirely on whether large numbers of
people, water experts, specialists in other fields, policymakers and
stakeholders generally, are convinced it is the future we need. The way forward
to realize the national water vision is to establish associated programmes in
the Eighth Malaysian Plan and the Third Outline Perspective Plan. Water is
everybody’s business and we should endeavour to make every drop
count.REFERENCES1. Government of Malaysia/JICA, 1982. National Water
Resources Study, Malaysia, Sectoral Report, Volume 182. Water Supply Branch, Public Works Department, 1998.
Malaysia Water Industry Report 97/983. Keizrul Abdullah and Azuhan Mohamed, 1998. Water
- A situation appraisal and possible actions at the community level. Seminar
on local communities and the environment II, Environmental Protection Society of
Malaysia, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia4. Economic Planning Unit, 1996. Seventh Malaysian
Plan 1996-20005. Sewerage Services Department, 1998. Sewerage
Services Report 1994-19976. Department of Environment, 1999. Malaysia
Environmental Quality Report 19987. Shahrizaila Abdullah, 1999. Towards a Malaysian
and global vision for water, life and the environment. Workshop on the
sustainable management of water resources in Malaysia - a review of practical
options, Shah Alam, Malaysia