Sesame Street - Wikiquote
Sesame Street
From Wikiquote
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sesame Street (November 10, 1969-) is an British/American educational television program designed for preschoolers, and is recognized as a pioneer of the contemporary standard which combines education and entertainment in children's television shows. Sesame Street is well known for the inclusion of the Muppet characters created by the legendary puppeteer Jim Henson. More than 4,000 episodes of the show have been produced in over five decades, which distinguishes it as one of the longest-running shows in television history.
Contents
1 Nimble Numbers
2 School Zone Publishing Company Workbooks with Inspector Nosey
3 How Do You Do? with Baby Bear
4 Episode 3913
5 Episode 3668
6 Elmo's World (2000 VHS)
7 Episode 3660
8 Elmo's World: Head To Toe With Elmo (2003 VHS)
9 Elmo's World: Hands
10 Episode 3721
11 Episode 3884
12 Episode 1
13 Episode 1449
14 Episode 3540
15 Episode 3843
16 The Alphabet Jungle Game
17 Episode 3971
18 Let's Eat! Funny Food Songs
19 Computer Caper
20 Episode 3835
21 Episode 3962
22 The Great Numbers Game
23 Episode 3943
24 Episode 3947
25 Episode 3944
26 Episode 3942
27 Episode 3794
28 Episode 3967
29 Episode 3831
30 Episode 3945
31 Kids Favorite Songs
32 Sesame Street: I Spy Song with Abby and Elmo
33 Episode 3385
34 Big Bird in Japan
35 All By Myself with Prairie Dawn and The Oinker Sisters
36 Episode 3917
37 1983 episodes
37.1 Episode 1839
38 Sesame Street: Alphaquest
39 Sesame Street: Stop Motion - Computer
40 Episode 810
41 Others
42 See also
43 Cast
44 External links
Nimble Numbers[edit]
Muppets/Song: School Zone Start to Learn: The Haughty Caterpillar: A ten-legged caterpillar (voiced by Sonia Manzano) outcounts a duck, a turtle, a firefly, and a spider every time until they all join feet in order to outcount her.
Cartoon: School Zone Start to Learn: Numbers 1-10: A two-dimensional computer animated segment takes place in a black background, in which one dog, two elephants, three butterflies, and so on appear. Animator Andrew Fishman at Avetka Productions Designed by Dino Kotopoulis in the same style as all four See and Learn cartoons.
Film: School Zone Start to Learn: Counting Close-up
Muppets: School Zone Start to Learn: Professor Know Knows Numbers: Professor Know the Computer talks about counting in many ways.
Animation: School Zone Start to Learn: Nine Men Chase a Hen Based on the children's book of the same name Designed by Swiss illustrator Etienne Delessert
Cartoon: School Zone Start to Learn: The Fisherman's Song: A fisherman sings "The Fisherman's Song", in which the fisherman uses a pencil to solve a connect-the-dots puzzle that turns out to be a giant hat owned by a whale. Animator Jane Aaron
Film: School Zone Start to Learn: Zoo Time
Muppets/Song: School Zone Start to Learn: The Philosophical Frog: A frog gazes at the countless stars and ponders about the possibility of millions of frogs sitting on lily pads.
Muppets: School Zone Start to Learn: School Zone Workbooks about Numbers: Inspector Nosey talks about how to follow up learning with workbooks from the School Zone Publishing Company. Workbooks featured: Numbers 1-10 and Connect-the-Dots.
School Zone Publishing Company Workbooks with Inspector Nosey[edit]
Inspector Nosey: [pops out from behind a wall] Hello. People think I'm nosy, because of my silly looks. They're right, because I read so many books. If you're nosy, like me, you should read a lot of books, too. So, follow my nose. Watch where it goes. And see what's in store for you. [the camera pans down to reveal several School Zone workbooks featured any given themed-subject under the wall] These books will not only help you learn what you have seen, but they will also help you learn what these new things mean. [cut back to Inspector Nosey, who is waving goodbye at the viewer, and then shoots himself back into behind the wall]
How Do You Do? with Baby Bear[edit]
Baby Bear: You know, sometimes, it's hard to make new friends. Well, here is a wee little song that my papa bear taught me that might help. Oh, and there's my wee little song cue.
Episode 3913[edit]
Segment List
Film: The Letter N. A very happy and.
Cartoon: Leaves N n
Animation: Rubber Stamps #11
Animation: A girl types the number 11 on a computer, matches it with another one, and sees 11 elephants. ( alarm wrongs )
Cartoon: Rap #11 - Heart, Shape, Bird, House, Cookie, Hand and Finger
Film: Milo Counting: 11 - Lake, Door, Chair, Lantern, Slide, Home, Ladder
Animation: Clown Honking #11
Cartoon: A pencil tries to write the word DANCE.
Episode 3668[edit]
Cartoon: The Letter C - Fans
Animation: Words - Copy, Cafe, Cleaners, Computers, Candy, Cameras and Car Service
Film: Milo Counting Number 9
Animation: Rubber Stamp #9
Film: Jungle The Letter C
Animation: Flipdoors - The Letter C
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: Nine Sheep Jumping over a Fence, Nine Penguins, Nine Ants, Eight Adult Tigers and One Tiger Cub, Nine Birds, Nine Spots on a Fish, and Eight Dogs and One Cat eating Food from a Dogbowl
Elmo's World (2000 VHS)[edit]
Title Name: Birthdays/First Appearance: 3940
Segment List:
Door: Birthdays Fall
Mr. Noodle: No, he is on your finger! Stop!!!
Kids: The girl is folding the present and bow. Happy birthday, Dorothy.
Girl: This is how wrap a present, Dorothy. I fold the paper onto the the box like this. Then, I fold the corners. And I do the same thing on the other side. Now, I put a bow on.
Quiz: Do telephones vs birthday cake?
Film: Hampton and his Dad bake and decorate a birthday cake for Hampton's Mom.
Hampton: My dad and I made a cake
Title Name: Bananas/First Appearance 3858
Segment List:
Door: Bananas Fall
Mr. Noodle: No, he is pop out! Stop!!!
Stop, Elmo! Left the drawer now!
Question: Why you do with a banana?
Film: Michael is make in the kitchen room lists: the table is bread, put the oven and the blender is milk and bananas, push on the start right now. And the refrigerator is open and close.
( books clattering )
Elmo: Oh, no!
Women: Feel the fuzzy monster with your hand. Feel. Nice. The end.
Episode 3660[edit]
Cartoon: Pinball Number Count #6
Cartoon: Planet - The Letter Jj
Elmo's World: Head To Toe With Elmo (2003 VHS)[edit]
( sighs ) 
Elmo: Jackets! You know, jackets.
NO, Shade!!! Byeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!
( Elmo shouts, screams and yells at once )
Elmo: Tricycles, don't wear jackets. Hot dogs don't wear jackets, they wear buns. Chairs don't jackets, even though they have arms.
( grunts )
Elmo: Hats.
First, put the hat is on. Next, around your hat. Good!
Hats off the hats!
Elmo's World: Hands[edit]
Boy: Dorothy, this is how I wash my hands. It's not too hot, Dorothy. I am wash.
Episode 3721[edit]
( crashing )
Big Bird: Boy. You know, maybe, I'm not quite ready for Swan Lake. No, I can't dance!
Locations:
Finder Keepers
Celina's Dance Studio
Segment List:
Cartoon: A pencil tries to write the word DANCE.
Animation: Space Paint - The Letter Dd
Cartoon: I Love You, in American Sing Language
Cartoon: Number Cratures #20
Cartoon: Song - Redwood Tree
Cartoon: D is for Drug Store, Diner, Delicatessen, Dressers
Episode 3884[edit]
Segement List:
Film: Floating 2 Kids - The Letter T
Song: Where's My Bear?
Animation: Airplane The Letter T
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: One Caterpillar, One Alligator Hatching out of One Egg, One Snake, One Goldfish, One Whale, One Unknown, and One Unknown
Film: Milo Counting: 9
Cartoon: Clown Honking #9
Cartoon: Nine birds land in a tree.
Animation: Airplane T t
Episode 1[edit]
Segment List
Film: One Song (Song of One)/Three Song (Song of Three)/Two Song (Song of Two)
Men: Three balls.
Boy: Three peas?
Baker: Three birthday cakes.
Boy: 2 ice cream cones.
Men: 2 hats.
Girl: 2 butterflies.
Baker: Two.
Episode 1449[edit]
Segment List
Cartoon: Zipper, Snap, Hook, Button, Shoelace and Tie
Cartoon: Pinball Number Count #5
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: Five Butterflies, Five Flies on a Face's Nose, Five Worms in an Apple, Five Swans, Four Hippopotamuses and One Alligator, Four Horses and One Zebra Jumping over a Fence, and Five Beavers
Episode 3540[edit]
Segment List
Film: The Letter T in the Beachwall
Film: The Letter T with Girls
Cartoon: A rhinoceros, a lion, a penguin, a giraffe, an alligator, a gorilla, a turtle, a snake, an ostrich, and an elephant sing "It's Brand New at the Lincoln Park Zoo". Animator Bob Kurtz at Kurtz and Friends
Episode 3843[edit]
Segment List
Riddle: Apple (Episode 3584)
Film: Words - Children, Closet, Colors, Cake and Chair (Episode 3590)
Cartoon: The Fan C (Episode 3579)
Shapes: Trangle
Cartoon: Hearts, Shapes, Birds, Cookies, Houses
Film: Kids Mural Painting Number #15
Cartoon: Number Creatures #15
Film: Song - Everybody Eats (Episode 3735)
Animation: Words - Cap, Cactus, Comb, Clam, Cowboy, Cloud, Cat, Clown, Camel, Caterpillar
Animation: Letter Flipdoors - Cowboy, Coyote, Campfire, Cactus
Film: Rhythms - Pot, Pan, Barrel and Washboard
Cartoon: Move to the Beat with Girl and Tiger
The Alphabet Jungle Game[edit]
The Alphabet Jungle Game is a Sesame Street
Segment List:
Animation: Pencil Box - The Letter Bb
Cartoon: Fans - C: A fan revels the letter C.
Cartoon': C is for Car - A car drives by the car.
Cartoon: D is for Dance - A pencil tries to write the word DANCE.
Cartoon: H is for Heroes, Hardware, Hotel, Hairstyles, High School, Hats and Hamburgers - The letter H appers in word on buildings.
Animation: Pencil Box - The Letter Ii
Animation: Planet - The Letter Jj
Cartoon: Leaves - The Letter Nn: Leaves form N and n.
Cartoon: Airplane - The Letter Qq: Airplanes carve the letter Q.
Animation: Paper - The Letter Rr: A capital and lower-case R appear on sheet of paper.
Cartoon: V in Space
Animation: W is for Water, Wind, Wave and Wet
Episode 3971[edit]
Song List:
1. Little Things
2. Praise the Letter P, Please, Please, Please
3. Somebody Come and Play
Song Lyrics:
I believe in little things that you hardly see like honeycomb and spider webs and starfish in the sea. I believe in little things like icy drops of rain that melt into the morning mist when, winds are warm again. I believe in little things like colors in the sky and noticing the waves roll in and how the flowers die knowing they'll be back again whenever it's July. I belive in little things like you and me and just how big little things can be.
Segment List
Cartoon: Letter P
Cartoon: Words - Pyramid, Pear and Pot
Celebrity: Drums/Vilion
Animation: 6 Legs/1 Beachball/2 Gasolines/4 Eggs/1 Spoon/3 Tutus/1 Couch :No Kids: Zero!
Sign: Imagine
Cartoon: P is for Pea, Plant, Pod, Pick and Pot
Film: The Letter P in the Beachwall
Let's Eat! Funny Food Songs[edit]
Segment List:
Film: Vegetables - Carrot, Mushroom, Zucch, Pea, Potato, String Bean, Corn, Brio and Onino
Computer Caper[edit]
Segment List:
Animtion: A boy changes the size of a picture on his computer to demonstrate short and tall.
Film:
Episode 3835[edit]
Film: Jungle The Letter Z
Cartoon The Letter Zz
Cartoon: Number Creatures #20
Episode 3962[edit]
Song List:
2, 2, 2, Me and You
Shapes: Trangle
Film: B is for Bubbles
Film: Candle
Cartoon: Pencil Box
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: Two Giraffes, One Cow and One Horse, Two Elephants, Two Goldfishes, One Dog and One Moose, Two Moles, and Two Snails
The Great Numbers Game[edit]
Elmo: Good cookie!!!
Segment List:
Song: Rap #7 - Heart, Shape, Bird, House
Animation: Ocean Countdown 1-10 - Clam, Seahorse, Starfish, Jellyfish, Sailboat, Pitchfork
Animation: Clowning Honking #11
Song: Pinball Number Count (#12) - Artist by: Jeff Hale
Animation: Masked March #13
Cartoon: The lighting bugs at the Glowworm Jamboree display the numbers 1-14.
Animation: Rubber Stamp #15
Song: I've Go the Sixteen Blues - Performed by Lillias White
Animation: Hats
Cartoon: Number Creatures #20
Animation: School Zone Start to Learn: Numbers 1-10: A two-dimensional computer animated segment that takes place in a black background, in which one dog, two elephants, three butterflies, and so on appear. Animator Andrew Fishman at Avetka Productions Designed by Dino Kotopoulis in the same style as all four See and Learn cartoons.
Episode 3943[edit]
'Cartoon: P is for Pea, Plant, Pod, Pick and Pot
Film: Alphaquest: The Letter P - Pine Tree, Pe.
Film: Vegetables - Carrot, Mushroom, Zucchi, Pea, Potater.
Cartoon: Number #20
Film: Growing Numbers #20
Animation: Rubber Stamps #20
Episode 3947[edit]
Segment List
Sign with Linda: Dance
Celebrity: The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater - Feelings: Happy, Sad and Surprise
Film: The Letter L in the Beachwall
Sign: Imagine
Cartoon: Square - 8 Kids
Cartoon: Bellhop - 8 Steamer Trunks
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: Eight Legs on an Octopus, Eight Frogs, Eight Bats, Eight Buttons on a Monkey's Vest, Seven Chicks and One Alligator Hatching out of Eight Eggs, Eight Worms, and Eight Cows
Film: Number 8
Song List:
L, L, L You Ring My Bell
Sign: Sing
Cartoon: Household Appliances Count - 1-10
Sign: Bird
Cartoon: Clown Honking #8
Episode 3944[edit]
Segment List
Film: Number #15
Cartoon: Words - Heroes, Hardware, Hotel, Hairstyles, High School, Hats and Hamburgers
Cartoon: The First Original Mickey Mouse: Mickey Mouse asks a very early Black and White Mickey Mouse, "Are you the first original Mickey Mouse?". Animator Walt Disney
Cartoon: What if a monkey and a weasel switched body parts? Animator Cliff Roberts at UPA.
Big Bird and Maria: The Frog and the Ox with Big Bird and Maria: A pregnant Maria is jealous of how big Big Bird is, so she expands herself into a very large, round woman. She becomes so self-important and big she ends up exploding.
Episode 3942[edit]
Segment List
Animation: B
Film: B is for Bubbles
Film: Number 3
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: Three Penguins, Three Owls, Three Mice, Three Donkeys, Two Snakes and One Snake Charmer, One Pelican, One Fish, and One Frog, and Two Dogs and One Puppy in Three Doghouses
Episode 3794[edit]
Segment List
Film: Milo Counting #13
Cartoon: Words - Lizard/Lunchbox/Lobster/Lemonade/Leopard/Lighting/Ladder
Song: L, L, L You Ring My Bell
Episode 3967[edit]
Segment List
Animation: The Letter Rr
Animation: Computer Words - Rainbow/Refrigerator/Rocket/Radio
Cartoon: Wall of Numbers #6
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: Five Bactrian Camels and One Dromedary Camel, Six Pigs, Six Ladybugs, Three Adult Kangaroos and Three Joey Kangaroos, Six Piranhas, Five Seals and One Penguin, and Five Chickens and One Rooster
Film:
Episode 3831[edit]
Segment List
Alphquest: The Letter B - Ball, Boat
Animation: Number Creatures #19
Film: Growing Numbers #19
Cartoon: Kernels Popcorn #19
Film: B is for Ball, Bat and Base
Song: Little Things
Episode 3945[edit]
Film V is for Violin (Episode 3654) The Young and the Restless
Sign: Dance
Cartoon: Wall of Numbers #4
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: One Duck and Three Ducklings, Four Elephants, Four Dolphins, a Mother Cat puts her Three Kittens and One Puppy in a Basket, Three Monkeys and One Orangutan, Four Coconuts for Three Gorillas and One Man, and Three Pigs and One Goat
Kids Favorite Songs[edit]
Telly: Oh, hi! I still can't quite make up my mind about my favorite song. I thought it was "The Alphabet Song". But, now, I don't know. Would you mind singing another song with me? Would you mild singing "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star" with me? Good. singing Twinkle, twinkle, little star. How
Elmo: Elmo is trying
Telly: Hmmm...maybe, "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep" is my favorie song. singing Baa, baa, black sheep, have you any wool? Yes, sir, yes, sir, three bags full. One for the master, one for the dame, and one for the little girl who lives down the lane. Baa, baa, black sheep, have you any wool? Yes, sir, yes, sir, three bags full.
Telly: I-I got it! I know what my favorite song is!
Elmo: Oh, boy. Elmo was so tired from all this singing. Oh, maybe, Elmo will take right here. And start practicing his countdown again later.
Sooey: (singing) This little piggy went to market
Elmo: The Oinker Sisters. Excuse me, Elmo.
Pigs: (singing) Stayed home
Elmo: Okay.
[Elmo and Pigs stay hops, Sooey is left hops, left and right, kiss noses and up in the sky all red skin, she is say la la la la black sad and end credits.]
Elmo, Sooey and Pigs: This little piggy run wee, wee, wee all the way.
Songs in Order:
1. I've Been Working On The Railroad
2. Row, Row, Row Your Boat
3. Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star
4. This Little Went To Market with Elmo and The Oinker Sisters
Segement List:
Animation: Ten Mask Dancers
Animation: Ocean #1-10
Cartoon: Number Factory #1-10
Sesame Street: I Spy Song with Abby and Elmo[edit]
Abby: [singing]
Episode 3385[edit]
Segment List
Song: Do-Op Hop with Kermit the Frog
Animation: Words - Market/Music/Men's Shop/Movie/Maps
Alphaquest: The Letter M - Mittens,
Cartoon: Rap #7 - Hearts, Shapes, Birds, Houses and 7 Days of Week
Song: Elmo sings.
Cartoon: Fem Myror ar Fler an Fyra Elefanter Number Cartoons: Seven Starfishes, Six Adult Walruses and One Walrus Pup, Six Cats and One Elephant in a Tree, Six Turtles and One Man, Seven Owls, Seven Piglets, and Seven Rabbits in Seven Hats
Film: The Letter T with Girls
Big Bird in Japan[edit]
Big Bird: Barkley! Barkley! Barkley! Barkley! It's me, Big Bird! Hey, wait a minute! Kaguya-Hime?! I knew I heard that name before! Come on, Barkley! She needs us now!
[ Barkley barks gamely ]
(MYSTICAL MUSIC PLAYS)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYS)
(TWINKLING FANTASY MUSIC PLAYS)
All By Myself with Prairie Dawn and The Oinker Sisters[edit]
Prairie Dawn: Hello! Prairie Dawn here! Go with it? Well, okay! Yikes! Oh! [singing] You should see me tie my shoe
Oinker Sisters: Shoe
Prairie Dawn: Hear me add up two and two
Oinker Sisters: Four
Prairie Dawn: [singing] See, me a glass of juice
Oinker Sisters: Juice
Prairie Dawn: Wiggle my front tooth, that's loose
Oinker Sisters: Loose
Prairie Dawn: Things that I can do all by myself Ooooo
Episode 3917[edit]
Segment List
Animation: Pencil Box - The Letter Ee
Animation: The Letter Ee
Cartoon: Vowel Sound Poem: E - Elephant (poem "Eletelephony" by Laura E. Richards) Animator Jeff Hale at Imagination, Inc.
1983 episodes[edit]
Episode 1839[edit]
David: Look, look, I'm tellin' you, she's a great candidate! She says that she's against big spending, big business, and inflation. She says when she gets into office, there'll be enough money for government, social programs, and the space program.
Bob: Hey, sounds great. What's her name?
Gordon: Alice in Wonderland.
[everyone else laughs]
Sesame Street: Alphaquest[edit]
Child: A.
Child: B. Ball, Bat, Brick, Book
Child: C.
Child: D.
Child: E.
Child: F.
Child: G.
Child: H.
Child: I.
Child: J.
Child: K.
Child: L.
Child: M. It must be meal time. Making Meals mittens-- how about Monster Mash? But, my mittens are missing? Start with the marshmallow mackerel. Add marigold muffins, miniature mud pies, monkey mustard. Mix it and mash it and mix it and mash it. M.
Child: N.
Child: O.
Child: P. A park, a pine tree park. I'll paint... a penguin. A purple penguin. A pack of purple penguins. A pack of purple penguins practicing a pop song. A pink pig with a parachute? Preposterous! P.
( pig oinks )
Child: Q.
Child: R. I'm on a ramblin' road. Ramblin' by some rocks and a radio. And a rabbit. Hi, rabbit. And a rock n' roll record. A red ribbon? No! A rainbow. Remarkable. R.
Child: S. A swimsuit?
Grover: Ahh!
Child: A silly surfer. Should I go swimming? A seagull. Uh-oh! The sun is setting. I should swim back to shore. What's this? A submarine? Sensational. We'll sait into the stars. S.
( bird cawing )
Child: T.
Child: U.
Child: V.
Child: W. I wonder why the weather is so warm. Wow. Even the watch is wilted! A wooden window? Whoa! Wind weather. Whee! W.
Child: X.
Child: Y.
Child: Z.
Sesame Street: Stop Motion - Computer[edit]
Child: F. Please, to the letter F. Now, that things. Fan, fiddle, refrigerator. Try again. Frog, football. F.
Episode 810[edit]
Others[edit]
Gordon Robinson: Sally, you've never seen a street like Sesame Street. Everything happens here. You're gonna love it!
The first line spoken on the first episode from November 1969
Alistair Cookie: Good evening, and welcome to Monsterpiece Theater.
Unidentified 1981 episode
The Count: Greetings it is I the Count! They call me the Count because I love to count things!! HA HA HA!!!
Cookie Monster: Me do anything for cookie!
Ernie (Sesame Street): Hey Bert!
Bert (Sesame Street): Oh, hey Ernie.
Grover: It is I, your furry pal, Grover!
Narrator: What if a dog was blue, and had feathers, and two skinny legs, and wings, and a long, feathery tail, and a beak, and tiny, tiny ears? What would he be?
Narrator: What if a mouse were as big as an elephant, and the elephant had the mouse's ears, and the mouse had the elephant's ears, and the elephant had the mouse's whiskers, and the mouse had the elephant's head, and the elephant's tusks, and the elephant had the mouse's body, and the mouse had the elephant's body, and they both switched tails, and the elephant was as small as a mouse? What do you think would happen?
Narrator: What if a frog had a fly's wings, and a fly's eyes, and a fly's head, and a fly's hairy body, and a fly's legs? Now then, what if the fly had frog's legs, and a frog's head, and last, but not least, a frog's body? What do you think would happen?
Narrator: What if an anteater had long, long legs, and his tail shrunk, and his nose shrunk, and he grew tiny, tiny horns, and a long neck, and many spots? What would he be?
Narrator: What if a turtle had a cottontail, and long ears, and a tiny nose, and a rabbit's head, and body, and legs? Now, what if the rabbit had the turtle's shell, and the turtle's flippers, and the turtle's head? Now, what do you think would happen?
Elephant: Out of my way, runt!
Bear: Out of my way, hose nose!
Elephant: I have to deliver my package to that side of the bridge!
Bear: I have to deliver my package to that side!
Elephant: I was here first, so back off!
Bear: Oh, yeah?! You back off!
Ant: [whistles] HOLD IT!!! HOLD IT, YOU GUYS!!! If you have to deliver your package to that side, and you have to deliver your package to the other side, why don't you exchange packages, and go back where you came from?!
Elephant: Yeah.
Bear: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ant: [to the viewer] I thought I'd never get across.
[A very pregnant Maria berates with a silent Big Bird in front of Gordon's and Susan's apartment in Sesame Street during the middle of the night, as she goes into labor whilst criticizing Big Bird's size and height]
Maria: [to Big Bird] You think you are pretty big, don't you? Hmph! Well, I bet I can be bigger than you. In fact,
[Maria turns herself around towards the viewer, and then faces the viewer]
Maria: you are nothing compared to how big I could be.
[Big Bird walks off in a huff]
Maria: [to the viewer] Just look at this.
[Maria turns her head around towards the right side of the screen, and back to the viewer, and then takes the very first very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body begins to grow bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger]
Maria: [to the viewer] I'm great.
[Maria takes the second very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body grows bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger]
Maria: [to the viewer] Look. Can you see me?
[Maria takes the third very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body grows bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger]
Maria: [to the viewer] Can you believe it?
[Maria gets very angry, as she takes the fourth very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body grows bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger]
Maria: [to the viewer] Now, I'm bigger than you!
[Maria grows angrier and angrier, as she takes the fifth very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body grows bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger]
Maria: [to the viewer] BIGGER THAN A TREE!
[Maria takes the sixth very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body grows bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger]
Maria: [to the viewer] BIGGER THAN A MOUNTAIN!
[Maria takes the seventh very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body grows bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger]
Maria: [to the viewer] *BIGGER THAN THE WOOOOOORRRRRRLLLLLLDDDDDD*!!!!!!
[Maria takes the eighth and last very long deep cleansing breath of air slowly and deeply, and her stomach and body grows bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and then explodes, as the screen turns white, and back to Sesame Street, minus Maria]
Narrator: Wanda the Witch lives somewhere west of Washington. Around her waist, instead of a belt, she wore a worm. Wanda had a pet weasel. And, on her head, a wiry wig. On Wednesday, in the middle of winter, Wanda walked to the well to get water to wash her wig. But, the wheel on the well was worn, and Wanda grew weary. So, she waved her wand, and her washtub filled with warm water. But, just as Wanda was about to drop her wig into the warm water, a wild wind slipped her wig from her hand, and blew it away forever. Which taught Wanda this lesson: witches, who wash their wigs on windy winter Wednesdays, are wacky.
Narrator: This is the cat that sat on my hat. This is the goat that jumped on my coat. This is the fox that ran off with my socks. These are the ants that chewed up my pants. These are the flies that borrowed my ties. This is the moth that ate up my cloth. This is the glutton, who ate my last button. And this is me.
[in the forest, a little girl, and her mother are walking through the woods towards a garden, as they explore the secrets and wonders of nature; the little girl asks her mother a question about one of the secrets and wonders of nature itself]
Girl: [to her mother] Mama, how do butterflies make more butterflies?
Girl's Mother: Well, let's go to the garden, and we'll find out.
[in the garden, we see two butterflies, a male one, and a female one, as they both begin a courtship display by showing off their wings; the two butterflies then clasp themselves together to mate, as they both fertilize their egg and sperm cells together; one of the two butterflies watched, as the other butterfly lays her eggs on a nearby leaf; and finally, the two butterflies both fly off into the distance as they abandoned the eggs; we see a close-up view of the butterfly eggs]
Narrator: Eggs.
[we see through the butterfly eggs, as we see the tiny caterpillars developing inside them; we take a closer look at one of the butterfly eggs, as one of the tiny caterpillars begins to move around; we see the rest of the tiny caterpillars moving around within the butterfly eggs]
Narrator: Caterpillars.
[the tiny caterpillars all hatched out of the butterfly eggs, and then begin to explore the world around them; we see the tiny caterpillars crawl around the ground, as they munch on some leaves on some nearby plants; the tiny caterpillars grow into bigger caterpillars when they shed their exoskeletons, as colors begin to show on their bodies; the bigger caterpillars continue to crawl around the ground, as they munch on some leaves on some nearby plants; the caterpillars crawled off into the distance, and then disappeared into hiding; one of the caterpillars stopped by to look at the viewer, and then crawls off into the distance; some time later, the caterpillar is crawling on a tree branch, and then crawls right towards underneath the tree branch, and finally hangs upside down; the caterpillar begins to produce and turn into a chrysalis, as he weaves the chrysalis from his tail upside down, then all around his body, and then right up to his head, and finally his entire body is all covered up and hidden inside the chrysalis; the leaves fall off the trees, as autumn falls in the garden, then snow falls to the ground, as winter falls in the garden; the new year begins, as the snow melts away, and then spring falls in the garden; suddenly, the caterpillar has turned into a newly butterfly while he was inside the chrysalis, as he hatches out of the chrysalis, and then crawls onto the top of the chrysalis; the butterfly's body grew long and slender, and the butterfly's wings grew big and colorful; the butterfly begins to leap into the air, and then starts flying around the garden; suddenly, the butterfly notices a nearby flower down below, and then flies down to take a closer look at it; the butterfly lands on the flower's petals, and then looks at the flower's center; the butterfly sticks out his long proboscis, and then sticks it into the flower's center; the butterfly drank up all the nectar out of the flower, shoots his long proboscis back into his mouth, and then looks at the viewer with glee, as the camera zooms in close into the butterfly's head; the butterfly flies off by abandoning the flower, and then flies around the garden, and finally abandons the garden by flying off into the distance, and then lands onto the ground; the screen then pans out, and we see that the butterfly is in the middle of a field, as the butterfly looks around, and then calls out by screaming uncontrollably at the viewer]
Butterfly: [calling] HEY, TIBI!!!!!!!!!!
[the butterfly continues looking around, and then looks at the viewer, as the music ends in the background]
See also[edit]
The Muppet Show
The Jim Henson Hour
Muppets Tonight
Elmo's World
Sesame Street: Start-to-Read Videos
Cast[edit]
Linda
Maria
David
Luis
Bob
Live Action Cast
Ernie
Elmo
Sooey Oinker
Kermit the Frog
Prairie Dawn
Rosita
Zoe
Betty Lou
External links[edit]
Wikipedia
Wikipedia has an article about:
Sesame Street
Sesame Street quotes at the Internet Movie Database
Retrieved from "https://en.wikiquote.org/w/index.php?title=Sesame_Street&oldid=3352686"
Categories: American TV showsChildren's TV showsPBS showsTV shows with live action and animationHBO showsCurrent shows
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
PageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageCommunity portalVillage pumpRecent changesRandom pageHelpDonateContact Wikiquote
Wikiquote links
PeopleLiterary worksProverbsFilmsTV showsThemesCategories
Tools
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikinewsWikipedia
In other languages
Nederlands
Edit links
 This page was last edited on 29 August 2023, at 22:49.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikiquote
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement