BBC News - Trinidad and Tobago profile - Overview
    
       
 
303 captures
26 Feb 2014 - 02 Jun 2023
Aug
SEP
Oct
13
2013
2014
2015
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: University of North Carolina
  University of North Carolina, Chapel HillArchive-It Partner Since: Jan, 2012Organization Type: Colleges & UniversitiesOrganization URL:http://sils.unc.edu
Collection: 2014 Scottish Independence Referendum
  This is a collection about the Scottish Independence Referendum of 2014
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20140913132848/http://www.bbc.com/news/world-latin-america-20072231
        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    
                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Capital   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             
Latin America & Caribbean
Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video
31 January 2014
Last updated at 05:36 ET
Share this page
Delicious
Digg
Facebook
reddit
StumbleUpon
Twitter
Email
Print
Trinidad and Tobago profile 
Overview
Facts
Leaders
Media
Timeline
Trinidad and Tobago is one of the wealthiest countries in the Caribbean, thanks to its large reserves of oil and gas, the exploitation of which dominates its economy. 
Inhabited mostly by people of African and Indian descent, the two-island state enjoys a per capita income well above the average for Latin America. Natural gas - much of it exported to the US - is expected to overtake oil as its main source of revenue. 
Dependence on oil has made the republic a hostage to world crude prices, whose fall during the 1980s and early 1990s led to the build-up of a large foreign debt, widespread unemployment and labour unrest. 
The islands are a major tourist attraction
Continue reading the main story At a glance
 Politics: A four-party coalition, the People's Partnership, won snap elections in 2010. Kamla Persad-Bissessar is Trinidad and Tobago's first female PM. Politics mirrors the country's racial divide
 Economy: Natural gas, oil and chemicals are key industrial sectors and export earners
 Country profiles compiled by BBC Monitoring
 As with other nations in the region, Trinidad and Tobago - a major trans-shipment point for cocaine - has become ridden with drug and gang-related violence. This has clogged up the courts and has fuelled a high murder rate and much of the corruption that is reputedly endemic in the police. It also threatens the tourism industry. 
In response, the government reintroduced capital punishment in 1999, despite strong international pressure not to do so. 
Trinidad and Tobago hosts the Caribbean Court of Justice, a regional supreme court which aims to replace Britain's Privy Council as a final court of appeal. The council had been seen as an obstacle to the speedy implementation of death sentences. 
Sighted by the explorer Christopher Columbus in 1498, Trinidad was settled by the Spanish before being taken by Britain in 1797. A succession of European powers laid claim to Tobago. 
Calypso music and steel drum bands feature in carnival celebrations on the larger island. Relaxed and peaceful in comparison to its densely-populated neighbour, Tobago attracts diving enthusiasts and nature lovers. The island is self-governing. 
Hindus make up around a quarter of the population of Trinidad and Tobago
More on This Story
Country profiles: Latin America
Antigua and Barbuda 
Argentina 
Bahamas 
Barbados 
Belize 
Bolivia 
Brazil 
Chile 
Colombia 
Costa Rica 
Cuba 
Dominica 
Dominican Republic 
Ecuador 
El Salvador 
Haiti 
Honduras 
Grenada 
Guatemala 
Guyana 
Jamaica
Mexico 
Nicaragua 
Panama 
Paraguay 
Peru 
St Kitts and Nevis 
St Lucia 
St Vincent and Grenadines 
Suriname 
Trinidad and Tobago 
Uruguay 
Venezuela 
Related Internet links
Government website
Parliament of Trinidad and Tobago
Around the BBC
BBC Weather
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites
Share this page
Delicious
Digg
Facebook
reddit
StumbleUpon
Twitter
Email
Print
More Latin America & Caribbean stories
RSS
Chile MP charged over 1981 killings
Chilean MP Rosauro Martinez is charged with the killing of three left-wing militants during the dictatorship of Gen Augusto Pinochet.
Cuba to send doctors to Ebola areas
Argentina defies US court in debt row
Top stories
Business row in Scots weekend campaign
Russia's goal 'to eliminate Ukraine'
Beijing stages first Formula E race
Egypt key to fighting IS - Kerry
Steenkamp family protest at verdict
Features & Analysis
Mouth muscle 
How long is the average person's tongue? 
  
Polar bear myth
The macabre painting reputed to make students fail exams  
  
Fallen idol
The making and unmaking of Oscar Pistorius 
  
Untangling a life
How hard is it to stop being a lap dancer? 
  
Most Popular
Shared
1: Marathon with wine and cheese breaks
2: Artist bids to explain bipolar disorder
3: Israeli spy agency veterans protest
4: 'The polar bears made me do it'
5: Cuba to send doctors to Ebola areas
Read
1: The lap dancers who find it hard to leave
2: Business row in Scots weekend campaign
3: Kerry arrives in Egypt for IS talks
4: Actress Morton tells of being abused
5: 'The polar bears made me do it'
6: Russia's goal 'to eliminate Ukraine'
7: 'Nightmare' for Briton held in Iran
8: US footballer in child abuse arrest
9: Radio donation to hoax nurse family
10: Beijing stages first Formula E race
Video/Audio
1: Russia's goal 'to eliminate Ukraine' Watch
2: ‘Spider-dog’ prankster wants Poles to smile Watch
3: Escaping Kashmir streets-turned-lakes Watch
4: Therapy to combat Cambodia trauma Watch
6: Two-metre home to go up for sale  Watch
7: Crimea sings for Russia Watch
8: Shopper snatches swag from robbers Watch
9: Firefighters tackle California blaze Watch
10: One-minute World News Watch
Elsewhere on the BBC 
Superhuman vision
BBC Future discovers how a tiny group of people can see ‘invisible’ colours that no-one else can perceive
Programmes
The Travel Show Watch
Why genetics play a key part in making the Danes the happiest people on Earth
Services
 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news
About BBC News
Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines
    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
    