Local Government Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Local Government49,445 FollowersRecent papers in Local GovernmentTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleEngendering Local Government in the Commonwealth CaribbeanAuthor’s Note Undertaking the research for this paper proved to be a challenging exercise. A theme such as ‘The Experience of Engendering Local Government in the Commonwealth Caribbean’ assumes that information on local government exists... moreAuthor’s NoteUndertaking the research for this paper proved to be a challenging exercise. A theme such as ‘The Experience of Engendering Local Government in the Commonwealth Caribbean’ assumes that information on local government exists and what is perhaps lacking is how women have fared in local government structure. Instead I found there is a paucity of information on local government in the Commonwealth Caribbean. Very little documented, accessible information exists. Library searches and different types of consultations and referrals reveal inadequate sources of information on women and local government. I was forced to modify the title of the paper because at this phase we do not yet know the experiences of women and local government.Save to LibraryDownloadby C R G S - I G D S - UWI•  7  Gender Studies, Governance, Local Government, GenderRescaling the local: Multi-academy trusts, private monopoly and statecraft in EnglandTo cite: Wilkins, A. 2017. Rescaling the local: Multi-academy trusts, private monopoly and statecraft in England. Journal of Educational Administration and History, 49 (2), 171-185 For the past six years successive UK governments in... moreTo cite:Wilkins, A. 2017. Rescaling the local: Multi-academy trusts, private monopoly and statecraft in England. Journal of Educational Administration and History, 49 (2), 171-185For the past six years successive UK governments in England have introduced reforms intended to usher in less aggregated, top-down, bureaucratically overloaded models of service delivery as well as secure conditions for greater school autonomy.  Yet the ‘hollowing out’ of local government has not resulted in less bureaucracy on the ground or less regulation from above, nor has it diminished hierarchy as an organising principle of education governance.  In some cases, monopolies and monopolistic practices dominated by powerful bureaucracies and professional groups persist, albeit realised through the involvement of new actors and organisations from business and philanthropy.  In this paper I adopt a governmentality perspective to explore the political significance of large multi-academy trusts (MATs) – private sponsors contracted by central government to run publicly funded schools – to the generation of new scalar hierarchies and accountability infrastructures that assist in bringing the gaze of government to bear upon the actions of schools that are otherwise less visible under local government management.  On this account, it is argued, MATs are integral to statecraft and the invention and assemblage of particular apparatuses for intervening upon specific organisations, spaces and peoples.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrew Wilkins•  87  Critical Theory, Business, Management, Business AdministrationEl Pla Territorial Metropolità de Barcelona: ensenyaments per al govern del territoriResum: L’article revisa els ensenyaments que, a parer de l’autor, poden derivar-se del procés d’elaboració i aprovació del Pla Territorial Metropolità de Barcelona, aprovat pel Govern de la Generalitat de Catalunya l’any 2010. El treball... moreResum: L’article revisa els ensenyaments que, a parer de l’autor, poden derivar-se del procés d’elaboració i aprovació del Pla Territorial Metropolità de Barcelona, aprovat pel Govern de la Generalitat de Catalunya l’any 2010. El treball es divideix en tres apartat: en el primer, s’ofereix una panoràmica dels reiterats intents fallits de dotar d’un sistema de govern el territori de la regió metropolitana de Barcelona d’ençà de mitjans del segle XX; el segon apartat s’indica com, en aquest context, l’aprovació del PTMB, acordada entre els ens locals de l’àmbit i el Govern de la Generalitat constitueix una notable excepció; finalment, en el tercer apartat es desgranen deu ensenyaments que, pel govern del territori es deriven del procés d’elaboració, tramitació, aprovació i vigència del Pla.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oriol  Nel·lo•  6  Urban Planning, Local Government, Urban And Regional Planning, Metropolitan PlanningL'elite: posizione e reputazioneSave to LibraryDownloadby Adriano Cirulli•  3  Urban Politics, Local Government, Political Elites« Un évêque issu de la réforme régulière au temps de la première réforme séculière. Yves Mayheuc et les paroissiens du diocèse de Rennes : convergences et ignorances », by Bruno Restif, in Yves Mayheuc, 1462-1541. Rennes en Renaissance, Rennes, Presses Universitaires de Rennes, 2010, p. 203-215.Bruno Restif, « Un évêque issu de la réforme régulière au temps de la première réforme séculière. Yves Mayheuc et les paroissiens du diocèse de Rennes : convergences et ignorances », in Augustin Pic et Georges Provost (dir.), Yves... moreBruno Restif, « Un évêque issu de la réforme régulière au temps de la première réforme séculière. Yves Mayheuc et les paroissiens du diocèse de Rennes : convergences et ignorances », in Augustin Pic et Georges Provost (dir.), Yves Mayheuc, 1462-1541. Rennes en Renaissance, Rennes, Presses Universitaires de Rennes, 2010, p. 203-215.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bruno RESTIF•  12  Catholic Reform, Preaching, Local Government, EucharistPursuing Competition and Regulatory Reforms for Achieving Sustainable Development GoalsThis volume has been prepared under the auspices of the project entitled, ‘Competition Reforms in Key Markets for Enhancing Social & Economic Welfare in Developing Countries’ (CREW Project). This project was implemented by CUTS in four... moreThis volume has been prepared under the auspices of the project entitled, ‘Competition Reforms in Key Markets for Enhancing Social & Economic Welfare in Developing Countries’ (CREW Project). This project was implemented by CUTS in four countries: Ghana, India, Philippines and Zambia, and across two common sectors: Staple Food and Bus Transport with the support from DFID (UK) and BMZ (Germany) facilitated by GIZ (Germany). The aim of the project was to highlight the relevance of competition reforms for social and economic welfare in developing countries, and motivate other countries, governments and development partners to accord greater attention to the subject of competition reforms. In view of this overall aim of the project, with inputs from the project advisers CUTS designed the final conference of the CREW project on a broader theme to talk about ‘Relevance of Competition & Regulatory Reforms in Pursuing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Developing Countries’. The theme was thought to be both contemporary and relevant in view of the adoption of the SDGs a couple of months before this final conference. In addition to the support it received from DFID (UK), BMZ (Germany) and GIZ (Germany), the conference also received support from the World Bank, G-77 Secretariat and the OECD. CUTS is grateful to all the above organisations for supporting the conference, and indeed also the production of this volume. We acknowledge the support from the members of the Project Advisory Committee of the CREW project, who contributed to make this conference a grand success. Special thanks to Clement Onyango and colleagues at CUTS Nairobi for their support and tireless efforts in the run-up and during the conference. We gratefully acknowledge the hard work and patience of all the paper authors for contributing extremely interesting individual chapters to this volume. We are also thankful to those friends of CUTS who reviewed the draft papers – Eleanor Fox, Tania Begazo/Martha Licetti (World Bank), Rafaelita Aldaba, R S Khemani, Frederic Jenny, Payal Malik, Allan Fels, David Ong’olo, Ashwini Swain, Peter Holmes and John Davies/Lynn Robertson (OECD). We are indebted to Mukhisa Kituyi, Secretary General, UNCTAD for writing an encouraging Foreword – and we hope to continue to receive his and UNCTAD’s support. We greatly appreciate the diligence of Madhuri Vasnani and Garima Shrivastava for editing and Mukesh Tyagi for preparing the layout of this report. Special thanks are due to Ashutosh Soni for his excellent coordination of communication with authors and reviewers of papers of this volume. We acknowledge the efforts of all the members of the CREW team, especially Cornelius Dube, Shreya Kaushik and Neha Tomar. Last but not the least, this report would not have seen the light of the day without the skillful direction, and overall guidance of Pradeep S Mehta, Secretary General, CUTS. He took special interest in this volume and went through each and every paper carefully himself. Words alone cannot convey our sincere gratitude to each and every individual who have contributed in every small way towards bringing out this volume. But it is only words that this world thrives on. We express our sincere gratefulness to all such individuals, without whom the publication of this volume would not have been possible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Federico Del Giorgio Solfa•  33  Entrepreneurship, Marketing, Entrepreneurial Economics, DesignLocal Government Resilience: Adapting to a PandemicChaos and Complex Adaptive Systems theory, principles of organisational readiness, as well as risk, change and strategic management provide complementary perspectives to organisations that need to adapt to severe environmental shocks and... moreChaos and Complex Adaptive Systems theory, principles of organisational readiness, as well as risk, change and strategic management provide complementary perspectives to organisations that need to adapt to severe environmental shocks and stresses. These perspectives combine in the overarching notions of organisational resilience. Organisational resilience can be defined as the capacity of organisations to survive and thrive amidst ongoing change, disruption and adversity (cf. Global Resiliency Network 2010; Bhamra 2016; MacMillian 2017). Since the national lockdown, the local sphere of government had to adapt their operations to adjust to new realities that the COVID-19 pandemic introduced. From media reports, social media, political parties, and other interest groups, it soon became apparent that the resilience of municipalities are severely strained by a multitude of factors. These factors include the relative inability to provide crisis leadership, limited capacity to maintain essential services, partial revenue collection capability, as well as kerbed council decision-making and approval processes. The corpus of knowledge pertaining to urban and organisational resilience offers a number of principles and best practice models that local government in South Africa could adopt to effectively adapt to the 'new normal'. Especially the so-called 'five disciplines' of organisational resilience (The Gartner Group 2002; Lazcano 2011; Duchek 2019) serve as valuable parameters against which local government's response to the pandemic could be gauged. These 'disciplines' in local governance settings are: • Crisis leadership and effective communication (e.g. ability of political and administrative leadership to direct, influence, prepare, and guide new municipal praxis) • Critical supply chains and critical vendors (e.g. instability of supply and demand, use of SMART technology, revenue collection, insurance, security protocols, contingency plans and enterprise risk management plans, avoidance of 'hot spots') • Business continuity and the ability to manage issues (e.g. define the new business model, identify uncertainties, assess impact, design changes for operational resumption, disaster recovery, reprioritisation of budget allocations, etc.) • Workforce resilience (e.g. essential worker readiness, adaptive organisational culture, trust, stress, absenteeism, health problems, labour union concerns) • Community (e.g. engagement with local communities regarding the impact of the pandemic on their livelihoods, assessments of vulnerable communities, knowledge and education of communities, enhancing the legitimacy of councils, involvement of traditional leadership and local businesses in pandemic-related decisions, etc.)Save to LibraryDownloadby Gerrit Van der Waldt•  3  Local Government, Urban resilience, Municipal GovernmentWhat You Should Know about Your Local Government's Finances A Guide to Financial Statements 3rd EditionA plain-language introduction to the information that U.S. state and local governments provide in their annual audited financial reports.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dean Mead•  15  Finance, Accounting, Financial Accounting, Local GovernmentDo social media facilitate communication between local government and citizens?This paper demonstrates how subnational government in Europe is aided by social media in their delivery of Government2.0Save to LibraryDownloadby Philip Watson•  6  Public Administration, Public Relations, Local Government, Subnational PoliticsStakeholder and Citizen Roles in Public DeliberationSave to LibraryDownloadby Max Hardy•  16  Sociology, Environmental policy, Political Science, Energy PolicyNew Public Management Reforms in the South African Public Service: 1999-2009Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert  Cameron•  4  Public Administration, Public Management, Local Government, Public Sector ReformAn Analyst's Guide to Government Financial Statements,  3rd EditionA new and updated version of the GASB's popular guide for municipal bond analysts and other users of governmental financial information who have some prior knowledge of accounting or government finance. Among the new topics covered are... moreA new and updated version of the GASB's popular guide for municipal bond analysts and other users of governmental financial information who have some prior knowledge of accounting or government finance. Among the new topics covered are the recent pension and OPEB standards and disclosure of tax abatements.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dean Mead•  15  Accounting, Financial Accounting, Local Government, Financial AnalysisBari: l'elezione diretta del Sindaco e i suoi effetti sul governo localeSave to LibraryDownloadby Alessandro Lattarulo•  5  Sociology, Political Sociology, Politics, Local Government"L’esercizio dello spoil system nella governance dell’ente locale: alcuni casi a confronto"Save to LibraryDownloadby Alessandro  Sancino•  4  Local Government, Politics and Administration, Spoils System, Public GovernanceŞehirlerimiz ne kadar "akıllı"?Akıllı şehir, bağımsız karar alabilen ve farkındalığı yüksek olan kentli nüfusun aktivitelerini teknolojik tabanlı uygulamalar üzerine kurmayı, iyi performans gösteren ve kendine özgü nitelikleri olan bir şehir ortaya çıkarmayı... moreAkıllı şehir, bağımsız karar alabilen ve farkındalığı yüksek olan kentli nüfusun aktivitelerini teknolojik tabanlı uygulamalar üzerine kurmayı, iyi performans gösteren ve kendine özgü nitelikleri olan bir şehir ortaya çıkarmayı hedeflemektedir.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hicran Hamza Çelikyay•  6  Local Government, Smart Cities, Yerel Yönetimler, IstanbulIMPACT OF PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ON THE EMPLOYEESSave to LibraryDownloadby THABO KEITH BOB•Local GovernmentZoning law, health, and environmental justice: what's the connection?Save to LibraryDownloadby juliana  maantay•  19  Law, Ethics, Applied Ethics, PovertyAchievements and Prospects of Ukraine’s Decentralization Reforms Since 2014We briefly summarize some major achievements of, continuing challenges for, and future tasks within Ukraine’s ongoing decentralization drive. We have dealt in more detail with these and other dimensions of the current reset of Ukraine’s... moreWe briefly summarize some major achievements of, continuing challenges for, and future tasks within Ukraine’s ongoing decentralization drive. We have dealt in more detail with these and other dimensions of the current reset of Ukraine’s administrative structure, in recent papers for the Ukraine Forum of Chatham House (London), Kennan Institute of the Wilson Center (Washington, DC), and house journal of the International Institute for Strategic Studies (London). We point out a limited window of opportunity for the completion of the first phase of the local governance reform in late 2020.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas Umland and +1Valentyna Romanova•  19  Regional and Local Governance, Post-Soviet Regimes, Ukrainian Studies, Local GovernmentDeveloping an Academic Health Department in Northeast TennesseeSave to LibraryDownloadby David Blackley•  8  Leadership, Local Government, Humans, Program DevelopmentKobiety rządzą polską wsią? Władza lokalna i płećPodstawowym celem artykułu jest analiza udziału kobiet w samorządzie lokalnym i wiejskim na przykładzie funkcji radnej gminy i sołtyski. Autorka poszukuje odpowiedzi na pytania o skalę tego zaangażowania, jego zmian w czasie oraz... morePodstawowym celem artykułu jest analiza udziału kobiet w samorządzie lokalnym i wiejskim na przykładzie funkcji radnej gminy i sołtyski. Autorka poszukuje odpowiedzi na pytania o skalę tego zaangażowania, jego zmian w czasie oraz przestrzennych zróżnicowań. W pierwszej części artykułu została opisana dynamika zmian udziału kobiet w samorządzie lokalnym i wiejskim przed i po 1989 r. Następnie zostaną omówione zróżnicowania zaangażowania kobiet w strukturach samorządowych w poszczególnych regionach kraju. Ogólny trend wzrostu odsetka kobiet wśród radnych i sołtysów jest kształtowany przez: uwarunkowania instytucjonalne i polityczne, charakter samych funkcji, poziom kapitału kulturowego oraz zasoby biograficzne samych kobiet wiejskich, proces redefinicji ról społecznych kobiet i mężczyzn oraz czynniki kontekstowe. Treść artykułu opiera się na wybranej literaturze przedmiotu, dostępnych statystykach publicznych oraz wynikach jakościowego badania własnego.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ilona Matysiak•  7  Rural Sociology, Gender Studies, Regional and Local Governance, Local GovernmentIl ruolo delle città medie nell'organizzazione del territorioSave to LibraryDownloadby Marco  Pompilio•  9  Urban Planning, Local Government, Local Government and Local Development, City planningAssessing the Role and Impact of Legal Political Factors on Local Government Formation in Iran Based on Systematic ThinkingSpace political organization and decentralization are issues in the field of geopolitical studies Increasingly today There is a growing tendency to implement decentralization policies in most countries around the world, and governments... moreSpace political organization and decentralization are issues in the field of geopolitical studies  Increasingly today There is a growing tendency to implement decentralization policies in most countries around the world, and governments are forced to create and recognize local-level organizations and institutions as a Structural Component of Government. This paper reviews the systematic role of legal political factors in the formation of local government with an emphasis on the country of Iran and considering the effectiveness of the systematic thinking in social science studies, this research is based on systematic thinking. The present study from the view point of purpose is  applied and on the basis of nature and method is analytical and inferential descriptive. Data collection was done through library and field study, which included - quantitative (and qualitative) snowball interview questionnaire (for quantitative and qualitative analysis of legal policy factors in government formation). In Iran, a single-sample t-test using spss software was used to prioritize the effects of each of the relevant political dimensions of the Friedman-spss test on plotting causal diagrams based on systematic interpretation of software. Vensim was interviewed to complete the final system, or to justify the results of the present study. Local government is a widespread need for a new and efficient way to deal with problems in developed and developing countries, which there is no exception for Iran , in this way systematic thinking as an efficient way of managing the issues, especially Local government debate should be taken into account The results of the study show that the impact of legal political factors on the formation of local government in Iran is very high and the current status of this dimension for local government formation in Iran is very poorly evaluated, In addition, based on the results of quantitative and qualitative analyzes among the effective legal political factors of effective service, there is Strong bureaucracy and the necessity of local government decision-making within the local community are paramount in the formation of local government in Iran.Save to LibraryDownloadby Geography and Territorial Spatial Arrangement and +1Seyedhadi Zarghani•  4  Local Government, Iran, Systemic Thinking,   Legal PoliticsWpływ nowej konstrukcji wskaźnika zadłużenia na możliwości zaciągania zobowiązań przez jednostki samorządu terytorialnego (na przykładzie gmin wchodzących w skład powiatu poznańskiego)Save to LibraryDownloadby Joanna Przybylska and +1Sławomira Kańduła•  5  Finance, Public Finance, Local Government, Debt RatioNALAS Statistical Brief Local Government Finance Indicators in South East Europe 2nd EdThis Statistical Brief is an ongoing effort of NALAS’ Fiscal Decentralisation Task Force to provide policy–makers and analysts with timely, accurate, relevant, reliable and comparable data on local government finance in South–East Europe... moreThis Statistical Brief is an ongoing effort of NALAS’ Fiscal Decentralisation Task Force to provide policy–makers and analysts with timely, accurate, relevant, reliable and comparable data on local government finance in South–East Europe (SEE). The report is structured in three main sections. The first part provides an overview of the size and structure of local governments in SEE. The second part provides regional comparisons on the status and development of national and local government finance in SEE in 2019. The data are provided in different formats, allowing much more comparisons and further utilization by users. The 2019 local government finance data bear a significant importance as serve as the baseline against which the impact of the COVID-19 pandemics will be measured in the coming years. The third section shows the patters and evolution of national and local government revenues and expenditures for the period 2006-2019 in each of the SEE economies through selected indicators of macro–economic performance and fiscal decentralisation.For additional information contact us at info@nalas.eu and stafa@nalas.eu.Save to LibraryDownloadby NALAS - Network of Associations of Local Authorities of South-East Europe•  9  Regional and Local Governance, Local Government, Local Government and Local Development, Fiscal federalism and decentralizationUrban Food Policies : Decentralized Cooperation and African  CitiesThe article introduces Urban Food Policies (UFP) in the field of decentralized cooperation as a relatively new field of work, exchange and action-oriented research within and between cities, and local authorities in the global North... moreThe article introduces Urban Food Policies (UFP) in the field of decentralized cooperation as a relatively new field of work, exchange and action-oriented research within and between cities, and local authorities in the global North and South. Indeed, a plethora of cities have been implementing actions with different implementation mechanisms indicating that UFP can generate positive stimuli, new perspectives, and reciprocal benefits. The article examines a number of ongoing international projects to then focus on the relevant programs developed in Italy and on the African continent, looking into aspects of governance, outlining essential features of decentralized cooperation and of these ongoing development projects, and concluding with potential prospects in this area.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria  Bottiglieri•  14  Urban Geography, Food Safety, Global cities, AfricaEnvironmental purchasing in the City of PhoenixU.S. local governments purchase $1.72 trillion of goods and services annually that contribute to global climate change and other environmental problems. Cities that successfully implement environmental purchasing policies can mitigate... moreU.S. local governments purchase $1.72 trillion of goods and services annually that contribute to global climate change and other environmental problems. Cities that successfully implement environmental purchasing policies can mitigate these environmental concerns while saving money and demonstrating their environmental leadership. However, cities confront numerous challenges when implementing an environmental purchasing policy. This chapter identifies the facilitators and barriers of implementing an environmental purchasing policy. It draws on the experiences within the City of Phoenix as an example and offers eight recommendations for how the City of Phoenix and similar cities can integrate environmental purchasing more fully into their existing purchasing processes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nicole  Darnall•  18  Public Administration, Local Government, Local Government and Local Development, Sustainable Procurement in ConstructionLegislation and ecological quality assessment of soil: implementation of ecological indication systems in EuropeSave to LibraryDownloadby Jörg Römbke and +1Michiel Rutgers•  16  Soil, Local Government, Ecology, European UnionPrzyszłość jednostek pomocniczych. Prawne regulacje i wzorce aktywizacyjneLos gminnych jednostek pomocniczych (JP), w ramach obowiązujących regulacji prawnych, leży w rękach samorządowych administracji i mieszkańców. Są gminy (np. Kraków, Poznań, Warszawa), w których wzmacnianie dzielnic, osiedli, sołectw jest... moreLos gminnych jednostek pomocniczych (JP), w ramach obowiązujących regulacji prawnych, leży w rękach samorządowych administracji i mieszkańców. Są gminy (np.Kraków, Poznań, Warszawa), w których wzmacnianie dzielnic, osiedli, sołectw jest ważną częścią polityki społecznej i sposobem na efektywne zarządzanie publicznymizasobami. Nie brak jednak i takich miejsc, gdzie JP są marginalizowane (np. Wrocław) lub wręcz zostały zlikwidowane (Białystok).  Moje pytanie o przyszłość nie jest jednak pytaniem o prognozę, która z tych tendencji weźmie górę. Tym bardziej, że przewidywania musiałyby zostać istotnie zmodyfikowane, jeśli dojdzie do nowelizacji ustawy samorządowej. Mając świadomość stanu aktualnego i proponowanych nowelizacji prawnych, rozważam tutaj sposoby wzmocnienia JP jako ważnego ogniwa społeczeństwa obywatelskiego. Są one bowiem usytuowane w miejscu szczególnym – między gminną administracją a mieszkańcami. Ich sprawne funkcjonowanie wydaje się jednym z podstawowychinstrumentów partycypacji.Artykuł opublikowany w: Jednostki pomocnicze gmin w polskim systemie samorządowym, red. A. Jarosz, B. Springer, Oficyna Wydawnicza Uniwersytetu Zielonogórskiego, Zielona Góra 2014.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jacek Schindler•  3  Local Government, Public Participation In Governance, Community participation and engagementWHETHER OR NOT A PARISH OR TOWN COUNCIL IN ENGLAND OR A COMMUNITY COUNCIL IN WALES MAY GRANT-AID A PLACE OF WORSHIPParish, town and community councils raise a precept that enables money to be spent on matters that are important to and benefit the local community. There is, however, confusion over whether or not a parish, town or community council may... moreParish, town and community councils raise a precept that enables money to be spent on matters that are important to and benefit the local community. There is, however, confusion over whether or not a parish, town or community council may grant-aid a place of worship. The paper calls for clarification of the law.Save to LibraryDownloadby Frank Cranmer•  5  Finance, Local Government, Public Law, Law reformDecentralization Policy in Ukraine How Voluntary ASave to LibraryDownloadby Sergii Slukhai and +1Glendal Wright•  3  Local Government, Fiscal Decentralization, Intergovernmental Fiscal RelationsWydatki niewygasające w świetle zasady jednoroczności budżetuZasady budżetowe są rozmaicie definiowane w literaturze przedmiotu. Są one rozumiane m.in. jako postulaty nauki pod adresem ustawodawstwa i prak-tyki, dotyczące prawidłowej organizacji i funkcjonowania gospodarki budżeto-wej". Określa się... moreZasady budżetowe są rozmaicie definiowane w literaturze przedmiotu. Są one rozumiane m.in. jako postulaty nauki pod adresem ustawodawstwa i prak-tyki, dotyczące prawidłowej organizacji i funkcjonowania gospodarki budżeto-wej". Określa się je również jako zespół warunków w zakresie opracowywania, uchwalania i wykonywania budżetu, który gwarantuje prawidłową realizację jego funkcji". Wspólny dla różnych ujęć rozumienia zasad budżetowych jest cel ich formułowania, którym jest zapewnienie sprawnej realizacji zadań budżetu. Jako "pasjonująca" określana jest natomiast problematyka relacji między za-sądami budżetowymi a ustawodawstwem i praktyką budżetową". Jako że zasady budżetowe są jedynie postulatami-i tylko czasami przyj-mują postać normy prawnej-ich katalog nie jest zamknięty, a ich interpretacja nie jest jednolita. Zważywszy, że zasady te zmierzają do dostosowania systemu budżetowego do funkcji przypisywanych budżetowi państwa w danym kraju i w danym czasie, nie mogą mieć też one znaczenia ponadczasowego i ponad-przestrzennego. Ich treść ulega zmianie wraz ze zmianą funkcji państwa i jego budżetu oraz zmieniającymi się warunkami społeczno-gospodarczymi kraju". Mimo rozbieżności interpretacyjnych przestrzeganie zasad budżetowych ułatwia realizację zadań przypisanych budżetowi oraz kontrolę gospodarki budżetowej przez parlament i wyspecjalizowane organy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joanna Przybylska•  3  Finance, Local Government, BudgetEQUALITY FOR WHOM? OBSTACLES TO WOMEN'S ACCESS TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT IN SLOVENIA 1Based on original fieldwork research (analysis of legislation, interviews with candidates and gatekeep-ers, and focus groups), the article identifies some of the less visible obstacles to women's participation in local politics in... moreBased on original fieldwork research (analysis of legislation, interviews with candidates and gatekeep-ers, and focus groups), the article identifies some of the less visible obstacles to women's participation in local politics in Slovenia. Between 2014 and 2018, 35.6% of parliamentary representatives were women while the share of women ministers in the Slovenian government was 50%. Considerably fewer women were involved in politics on the local level, with just 7.6% holding the position of mayor in the same period and 10 municipal councils were without any women at all. This article discusses the reasons for such subnational variations in women's representation in local politics. The analysis leads to the main conclusion that to change the low representation in certain local councils it is necessary to introduce a well-designed reform of the electoral system and measures related to gender mainstreaming, family life, and partnership roles.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vlasta Jalusic and +1Milica Antić Gaber•  3  Gender Studies, Local Government, Political RepresentationPersona, società e amministrazione pubblicaThe essay deals with Giorgio Pastori's theory of public administration, pointing out the very center of his thoughts, the human being. On the ground of the concept of human being (and of its legal value), Pastori's theory proceeds along... moreThe essay deals with Giorgio Pastori's theory of public administration, pointing out the very center of his thoughts, the human being. On the ground of the concept of human being (and of its legal value), Pastori's theory proceeds along the concepts of society, Constitution and public administration. In this perspective, the essay examines Pastori's theory of society as concept strictly defined by its historical development, as foundation of Constitution and deepest reason of public organizations; furthermore, the paper point out the highlines of Pastori's idea of Constitution in relation with public administration: Constitution contains the purpose of public administration, its principles and the legal protection of fundamental rights; furthermore, the paper deals with Pastori's theory of public bodies' organization as pluralistic, objective and autonomous from political power. Under this perspective, the paper concludes considering the crisis of society, Constitution and politics in Italy, claiming that in Pastori's thoughts is possible to find valid answers to those crisesSave to LibraryDownloadby Luca R Perfetti•  13  Jurisprudence, Constitutional Law, Local Government, State TheoryA. Hanusz, P. Szczęśniak, Podatkowy charakter opłaty planistycznej (w:) Prawo finansowe wobec wyzwań XXI wieku (The Financial Law Towards Challenges of the XXI Century), red. J. Gliniecka, A. Drywa, E. Juchniewicz, T. Sowiński, Warszawa 2015, ss. 287-300.Niniejsze opracowanie zostało poświęcone problematyce opłaty planistycznej, unormowanej w ustawie z dnia 27 marca 2003 r. o planowaniu i zagospodarowaniu przestrzennym. Celem opracowania jest wykazanie, że opłata planistyczna stanowi w... moreNiniejsze opracowanie zostało poświęcone problematyce opłaty planistycznej, unormowanej w ustawie z dnia 27 marca 2003 r. o planowaniu i zagospodarowaniu przestrzennym. Celem opracowania jest wykazanie, że opłata planistyczna stanowi w istocie podatek o charakterze majątkowym. W konsekwencji, do ustalenia i poboru analizowanej opłaty zastosowanie powinny znaleźć przepisy Ordynacji podatkowej. Główne założenie badawcze zostało przedstawione na tle podstawowych pojęć i konstrukcji prawa podatkowego, takich jak np. podatek, opłata budżetowa czy ustawa podatkowa. Jak wykazano, poziom wpływów budżetu gminy z tytułu opłaty planistycznej jest uzależniony od liczby czynności polegających na zbyciu nieruchomości objętych miejscowymi planami zagospodarowania przestrzennego. Tym samym, opłata planistyczna stanowi pewien wskaźnik koniunktury gospodarczej w poszczególnych gminach wpisujący się w funkcję ewidencyjno-kontrolną finansów publicznych. --- This elaboration is concentrated on the problem of the rezoning fee (planning fee), regulated in the Outline Planning Law Act of 27th of March 2003. The main aim of this elaboration is to display that rezoning fee is, in fact, some kind of property tax. Consequently, the provisions of the Tax Ordinance Act should be administered to determine and collect this fee. The main presumption of the elaboration was presented in the view of consid-eration of the basic terms and constructions of the tax law, e.g. tax, tax Act or budget fee. Remarks presented in the elaboration indicate the exceptional character of rezoning fee. In fact, the level of budget inflows of the particular district from the rezoning fee depends on the number of disposal of the real estate subjected to local zoning plans (local mater plans). Thereby, the rezoning fee is an economic indicator, which is a crucial part of the control function of the public finance. The rezoning fee enables to record the development of economic processes in the real estate market.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paweł  Szczęśniak and +1Antoni  Hanusz•  15  Law, Tax Law, International Tax Law, TaxationŹródła finansowania samorządu terytorialnego, red. A. Hanusz, Warszawa 2015, Wolters KluwerGłównym celem opracowania jest przedstawienie tematyki źrodeł finansowania samorządu terytorialnego i zagadnień prawnych z nią związanych. Książka zawiera omówienie poprawności rozwiązań legislacyjnych oraz stosowania norm prawnych... moreGłównym celem opracowania jest przedstawienie tematyki źrodeł finansowania samorządu terytorialnego i zagadnień prawnych z nią związanych. Książka zawiera omówienie poprawności rozwiązań legislacyjnych oraz stosowania norm prawnych regulujących poszczególne dochody i przychody gmin, powiatów oraz województw samorządowych. Autorzy poddali analizie m.in. kwestie:podatków samorządowych,opłat samorządowych,subwencji ogólnej,dotacji celowych,dochodów z mienia,prowadzenia przez jednostki samorządu terytorialnego działalności gospodarczej,obligacji komunalnych,roli środków pochodzących z emisji papierów wartościowych,kredytów i pożyczek.W pracy uwzględniono orzecznictwo sądów administracyjnych oraz bogaty dorobek nauki prawa, odnoszące się do problematyki źrodeł finansowania samorządu terytorialnego. Adresaci:Publikacja skierowana jest do praktyków związanych z samorządem terytorialnym, w tym przede wszystkim do pracowników administracji samorządowej, sędziów, doradców podatkowych, biegłych rewidentów, radców prawnych, adwokatów oraz notariuszy. Będzie przydatna również osobom przygotowującym się do egzaminów na doradcę podatkowego i biegłego rewidenta. Monografia została napisana przez zespół pracowników naukowych Katedry Prawa Finansowego Uniwersytetu Marii Curie-Skłodowskiej w Lublinie pod kierunkiem prof. zw. dr. hab. Antoniego Hanusza, sędziego Naczelnego Sądu Administracyjnego.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antoni  Hanusz and +1Paweł  Szczęśniak•  12  Finance, Law, Tax Law, Regional and Local GovernanceDoes inter-municipal collaboration improve public service resilience? Evidence from local authorities in EnglandResilient organizations maintain functioning during times of unexpected adversity. Collaboration between organizations may enhance resilience by enabling scarce information, resources and capabilities to be leveraged across partners,... moreResilient organizations maintain functioning during times of unexpected adversity. Collaboration between organizations may enhance resilience by enabling scarce information, resources and capabilities to be leveraged across partners, although it may also impede rapid and flexible decision-making. We test this logic using the case of "inter-municipal" collaboration in England, analysing how the first COVID-19 lockdown affected provision of Housing Benefit - a locally-administered social-security entitlement. Using OLS, probit, random-effects GLS and Hausman-Taylor estimations on time-series data from 187 lowertier councils, we find that collaboration provided a degree of resilience, limiting the decline in accuracy objectives, but making no difference to service speed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Thomas Elston•  9  Resilience, Collaboration, Inter/intra-organizational Relationships and Networks, Crisis ManagementResponding to Irregular Migration: High Potential of Local Governments in TurkeyThis study examines local governments' growing presence in irregular migration management, and discusses how autonomous local responses challenge centralist approaches to the management of this migration. By building on the relevant legal... moreThis study examines local governments' growing presence in irregular migration management, and discusses how autonomous local responses challenge centralist approaches to the management of this migration. By building on the relevant legal framework, secondary literature and interview notes, the study focuses its attention on irregular migration in Turkey, and uncovers the potential of two local government units – district municipalities and muhtarlıks – in the response to irregular migration. The study discusses the enablers and the main constraints on these local government units in responding to, and therefore involving themselves in, the management of the phenomenon. As discussed in the study, the main impediment appears to be the country's highly centralized state structure, while there also exist several enablers, such as Turkish Townsmen Law (Hems ßehri Hukuku), the trust relationship with their inhabitants, and their experience of liminality in handling irregular matters and providing social aid to vulnerable , fragile and low-income residents.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deniz  Genc•  3  Irregular Migration, Local Government, Migration StudiesWhat Predicts Local Public Health Agency Performance Improvement? A Pilot Study in North CarolinaSave to LibraryDownloadby Dorothy Cilenti and +1Denise Pavletic•  8  Local Government, Forecasting, Public Health, HumansJavne usluge u sustavu gospodarenja komunalnim otpadom u hrvatskoj: europski standardi i lokalna prilagodbaSave to LibraryDownloadby Mihovil Škarica•  4  Local Government, European Union, Waste Management, Public ServicesTaming Wicked ProblemsManagers of local governments are routinely faced by wicked problems. This article presents measures that local government managers may take to address the challenges of wicked problems.Save to LibraryDownloadby John Duffy•  2  Local Government, ComplexityThe immigration debate in Australia: from federation to World War OneIntroduction ............................................................................................................................................. 1 Immigration measures pre-1901... moreIntroduction ............................................................................................................................................. 1 Immigration measures pre-1901 ............................................................................................................. 1 Immigration Restriction Act 1901 ............................................................................................................ 2 Amendments ...................................................................................................................................... 7 Pacific Island Labourers Act 1901 ............................................................................................................ 7 Amendments .................................................................................................................................... 10 Post and Telegraph Act 1901 .........................................................................................Save to LibraryDownloadby Chad Cooper•  4  Immigration, Political Science, Local Government, ImmigrantsFamily event participation: building flourishing communitiesPurpose-Family participation in community events and festivals is framed by certain conditions related to their ability to enhance their quality of life (QOL) and family flourishing. For communities to flourish, families must feel safe,... morePurpose-Family participation in community events and festivals is framed by certain conditions related to their ability to enhance their quality of life (QOL) and family flourishing. For communities to flourish, families must feel safe, secure, accepted and included. The research has the following aims: (1) to consider whether location is a determinant in family QOL and event participation, and (2) to identify how cultural identity and family issues may affect families' QOL and the role events play in their ability to flourish as a family. Design/methodology/approach-An integrated mixed-methods design was used derived from quantitative and qualitative traditions, including surveys, interviews and secondary data. The survey component combined Jepson and Stadler's St Albans 2015 QOL study survey with research instruments used by the Rotorua Lakes Council (RLC). The Rotorua sample included 521 valid anonymous online surveys and 11 semi-structured interviews. The RLC's Arts and Culture team provided expert advice, strategic plans and reports; secondary data were gathered from media reports. Findings-When comparing key Rotorua and St Albans data, the participants' responses were very similar. What appear significant are socioeconomic and cultural differences and family-flourishing factors specific to Rotorua's location and population. The findings show that the biggest obstacles for families attending events are money, work commitments and family obligations. The events reflect the region's unique cultural profile and provide a distinctive identifier of place and people that create a unique small-city event portfolio. Research limitations/implications-This study's findings have reinforced that for small-city events to succeed and attract high levels of patronage, council and community must work cooperatively towards common goals. Our findings indicate the importance, to our participants, of emotional attachment to Rotorua's natural landscape, built environment and unique cultural heritage. Additionally, arts and culture research focusing on new-migrant and multi-generational event participation is worth further consideration for preserving Rotorua's cultural history. Perceptions within the Rotorua community of their family experience at local events are central to our ongoing research and the further successful delivery of the RLC's event portfolio. Originality/value-This research offers a case study that serves to build further areas of inquiry into the role events play in QOL, family flourishing and maintaining indigenous cultures. Study findings have reinforced that organisations, practitioners, festivals and events succeed in attracting high levels of patronage for a small city. This study provides insights for designing culturally inclusive event portfolios that include events and festivals that target family audiences.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alison Booth•  4  Local Government, Community Events and Festivals, Quality of Life and Well being, RotoruaFinlandiya'da Yerel Yönetimler: Türkiye İçin ÖnerilerSave to LibraryDownloadby Mehmet Ela•  3  Public Finance, Local Government, Local/Municipal governmentInverse infrastructures: self-organization in the water servicesIn urban communities, infrastructures that support living are indispensable. There is increased interest in alternative ways of providing such support systems, including semi-autonomous infrastructures resulting from the self-organization... moreIn urban communities, infrastructures that support living are indispensable. There is increased interest in alternative ways of providing such support systems, including semi-autonomous infrastructures resulting from the self-organization of local actors. In this study, we analyze the emergence and management of such infrastructures in light of the theory of complex adaptive systems, within which they are called ‘inverse infrastructures’. Empirical evidence is drawn from the case of water cooperatives in the town of Ikaalinen, Finland. Our analysis shows that, with favorable preconditions in place, inverse infrastructures may contribute significantly to local infrastructure services and so also to the functioning of society.Save to Libraryby Ari-Veikko  Anttiroiko•  54  Water, Self-Organization, Infrastructure Planning, Urban PlanningDoświadczenia gmin w zakresie formułowania i realizacji strategii rozwoju na przykładzie gminy Bolesławiec (The experience in the formulation and implementation of development strategy on the example of Boleslawiec municipality).Within the current territorial division communes play a very significant role. They are responsible particularly for supporting local development through financing projects aimed at improving quality of life in local environment. To be... moreWithin the current territorial division communes play a very significant role. They are responsible particularly for supporting local development through financing projects aimed at improving quality of life in local environment. To be successful communes first of all need to introduce a strategic approach in managementprocess. Strategy helps to accumulate limited funds around the main expectations of local communities and opens new perspectives for additional financial support. But it is only half of the success to develop a good strategy. Equally important is the implementation process, in which long term objectives defined in a strategy are transformed into activities undertaken by local authorities in a yearly prepared budget. This article describesmain experiences of local strategy usage in management process of communities on the example of Bolesławiec.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jaroslaw Ignacy•  10  Public Administration, Public Management, Case Study Research, Strategic ManagementAcademy Governance: autonomy and accoutabilityAndy Allen presents his case for a form of Empowered Participatory Governance (Fung and Wright, 2003). He contends that if the process of academisation is viewed as removing power and control from the community, then democratic governance... moreAndy Allen presents his case for a form of Empowered Participatory Governance (Fung and Wright, 2003). He contends that if the process of academisation is viewed as removing power and control from the community, then democratic governance structures assume greater importance.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr Andrew Allen•  4  Governance, Local Government, Local Government and Local Development, Good GovernanceGood Riddance to Thatcher's Poll TaxThe SNP government in Scotland has acted to make historic, anti-democratic Poll Tax debts unenforceable.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brian Dempsey•  28  Poverty, Local Government, Local Government and Local Development, Poverty Reduction StrategiesIntegrating Strategies to Combat Begging into Local Government Planning in Tanzania: Process, Problems and Areas for IntegrationSave to LibraryDownloadby Baltazar M . L . Namwata•  6  Geography, Political Science, Local Government, PlanningConceptualizing urban leadership and urban coalitions across the Atlantic: What can we learn from migration researchErasmus University Rotterdam, 15 June 2015 The workshop will be organized in the framework of the Vital Cities and Citizens Initiative of the Erasmus University Rotterdam. Urban regime theory has been an important strand in the... moreErasmus University Rotterdam, 15 June 2015  The workshop will be organized in the framework of the Vital Cities and Citizens Initiative of the Erasmus University Rotterdam.  Urban regime theory has been an important strand in the American literature on urban politics and has helped elucidate long-standing coalitions between municipalities, businesses and civil society actors. In Europe, the literature on urban governance and policy networks has been influential in analyzing interrelationships and collaboration of various actors in policymaking. Over the past decade, these theories have also found their way into migration scholarship. They have been applied in novel and innovative ways to investigate immigrant policymaking in cities on both sides of the Atlantic. This has included increasing attention to coalitions between actors in immigrant policymaking and to the leadership taken by specific actors in defining responses to urban issues relating to migration.  However, so far there has been little systematic effort to theorize leadership and coalitions in the urban governance of migration and diversity. In this workshop, we want to explore current migration research and discuss what we can learn from urban governance/regime theories for understanding the role of urban coalitions and leadership in immigrant policymaking. At the same time, we seek to identify insights that can be gained from migration scholarship for developing urban governance and urban regime theory.  Some of the questions that will be addressed during this workshop are: 1. How can we conceptualize power in urban coalitions and urban leadership? How is immigrant policymaking informed by dynamics of inclusion and exclusion, collaboration and co-optation? 2. What do these theories tell us about which actors are influential in urban coalitions? Should we expect an influence of economic actors in immigrant policymaking, and if so, how does that differ between North American and European cities? Are immigrant organizations considered as partners by municipalities and what does that imply for having the voice of immigrants heard in policymaking? How does a trend of allocating responsibility for dealing with migration-related diversity across the administration influence the actors involved in urban coalitions on immigrant-policymaking? 3. Do paradigms matter to local leaders and how do they shape urban actor coalitions in immigrant policymaking? How are such paradigms circulated and exchanged? 4. Which policy approaches lead to more effective immigrant integration policies? What kinds of ideas respond best to immigrant needs and interests (as defined by immigrants themselves)? 5. How do other levels of government play a role in urban coalitions in immigrant policymaking, for example through national (and subnational) funding programs, EU initiatives, or involvement of metropolitan regions in urban policymaking? 6. Do we see variation across cities in urban coalition-building? How do cities differ in the ways in which various actors interact and collaborate in policymaking related to immigration? How do city networks influence urban coalitions and urban leadership in immigrant policymaking? 7. Which methodological approaches are most suitable to study urban coalitions and urban leadership in immigrant policymaking?  We invite scholars who would like to present their research relating to these questions to send their abstract of max 250 words to schiller@essb.eur.nl. Junior scholars are particularly encouraged to apply! Deadline for submissions: 7 March 2020.  If you would like to attend the symposium without giving a presentation, there will be a limited number of spots available to do so. Please send your name and affiliation to schiller@essb.eur.nl.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Schiller•  6  Public Administration, Regional and Local Governance, Governance, Local GovernmentEarmarked and Block Grants in Macedonia: Options for ReformIn the present report, after reviewing the allocation formulas of earmarked and block grants for decentralized institutions, five major problems of the system are identified: • Underfunding of local governments in Macedonia (subsection... moreIn the present report, after reviewing the allocation formulas of earmarked and block grants for decentralized institutions, five major problems of the system are identified:•Underfunding of local governments in Macedonia (subsection 3.1). Shares of local revenues in terms of GDP are low compared to other Europeans countries, even those who like Slovenia did not entrust to municipalities the responsibility for paying teacher salaries.•Decentralization is institutional, not functional (subsection 3.2). Back in 2005, Macedonia transferred to municipalities a large selection of public institutions, but the laws, and the financing instruments, indicate that the functions were not in fact transferred. •Ineffective central control over employment levels (subsection 3.3). Macedonia maintains a strict and costly system of control over local employment, even in cases when an existing employee retires. The system hampers proper functioning of some of the decentralized institutions but allows employment expansion in other sectors.•Very low local financial involvement in the financing of decentralized sectors (subsection 3.4). Most decentralized institutions, even preschools, are financed almost exclusively from grants from the national budget, with very little local contribution from own revenues. They are not seen as own institutions by most municipalities. •Debts related to obligatory transport of students of secondary schools (subsection 3.5). For too long has Macedonia accepted without any intervention growing problem of blocked accounts of many secondary schools. The paper formulates three strategies and several specific recommendations how to overcome weaknesses of Macedonia  system of local government finance and make it more transparent, predictable, and fair.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jan  Herczyński•  5  Public Finance, Local Government, Public Budgeting and Finance, DecentralizationNextLast »Related TopicsPublic AdministrationFollowFollowingLocal Government and Local DevelopmentFollowFollowingRegional and Local GovernanceFollowFollowingGood GovernanceFollowFollowingDevelopmentFollowFollowingPublic ManagementFollowFollowingNational governmentFollowFollowingPublic PolicyFollowFollowingParty SystemFollowFollowingGovernanceFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023