82-year-old Kerala man's Dictionary is in the four Dravidian languages. 25 long years to compile.
 
  
 
20 captures
01 Mar 2021 - 09 Jul 2023
Jan
MAR
May
31
2021
2022
2023
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Ukrainian Web
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20220331160135/https://bookofachievers.com/articles/82-yo-compiles-dictionary-of-4-dravidian-languages-useful-ofcourse
  
       
   
Home
Categories   
  Sports
  Science & Engineering
  Entertainment
  Corporate 
  Hobbies and Interests
  Social Science & Services 
  Miscellaneous
  All Categories 
 
Snippets  
  All
  Poems
  Stories
  Posts
  Art
  Essays
 
 Login / Register   
  Login
  Register
  Admin
 
     
     
     
     
 
   Search 
   
 
 
 Home 
  >  
 Articles 
  >  
 http://bookofachievers.com/articles/82-yo-compiles-dictionary-of-4-dravidian-languages-useful-ofcourse 
 
  
 
 Hobbies & Interests writer  
 Show Updates
 
Meet the man who learnt four Dravidian languages to create a dictionary.
        82-year-old man from Kerala spent 25 years to compose a dictionary in four Dravidian languages.
       
         By: swetha_vangaveti
         Published: 1 Years Ago
         Last Modified: 1 Years Ago
         Read time: 3 min read
          Views  26
         
 
 
 
 
Sreedharan was familiar with two languages- Malayalam and Tamil. He thought of learning two other major Dravidian languages — Kannada and Telugu. While he himself is a Malayali, he learnt Tamil during his work at a Beedi factory. He learnt Kannada from his colleague Govinda Naik and writer-friend C Raghavan. Also, to learn Kannada, he travelled to Mysore and stayed there for several weeks. There, Taliparamba, Eshwaraprasad Rao, an officer at the District Agricultural Farm, and his wife Seethamma taught him Telugu. He later travelled to Nellore in Andhra Pradesh and interacted with language experts and writers to learn Telugu. But why is Sreedharan so keen about learning languages? To know about this, we should first get to know about 82-year-old Njattyela Sreedharan and his passion. Without any further ado, we will take you into his journey.
No Formal Education But There's Love for Learning:
Sreedharan was born in Thalassery, Kerala in the year 1938. He dropped out of his school in his fourth standard and started working in a Beedi factory in Palakkad. It is where this Malayali learnt Tamil. While he worked in the factory, he studied all by himself and passed the ESLC examination privately. During his young years, he spent a lot of his free time studying and also teaching others as a part of literacy programs. While studying languages, he mainly focused on the writing style, grammar and colloquial usage. He wrote various articles for Malayalam dailies and magazines that dealt with the aspects of ‘'popular linguistic norms in Malayalam." In his later years, he worked as a blue printer in Kerala Public Works Department where he got acquainted with Dr T. P Sukumaran, a professor at the Nirmalagiri College. Dr Sukumaran advised Sreedharan to "compile a dictionary of colloquial usages of words in Malayalam.’' As Sreedharan was familiar with only Malayalam and Tamil, he decided to study the other two Dravidian languages, Kannada and Telugu and then set on to compile a dictionary connecting all these four languages.
The Mission:
Sreedharan retired in the year 1994. Post his retirement; he directed all of his time and energy towards compiling the dictionary. He referred to various dictionaries and because of his deep knowledge of languages; he pointed out mistakes in other dictionaries and corrected them. He spent from 6 am to 10 pm everyday on this without interacting with anybody or not even getting distracted for basic things during the day. This went on for several years. He compiled his dictionary in such a way that for each Malayalam word, there is a corresponding word in Kannada, Telugu and Tamil. The wonderful part of this dictionary is that synonyms for a word in Malayalam are provided in all the other three languages. Thus there are a total of about 1.25lakh words in his dictionary.
Not an Easy Get-through:
The dictionary that was created by putting in intense efforts has seen major roadblocks to hit the outside world. Sreedharan struggled hard to get a publisher owing to many factors, the low economic status and no formal educational qualifications bring the major ones. He approached several private publications but was refused by everyone. He finally submitted the dictionary to Kerala Bhasha Institute (The State Institute of Languages) which published the dictionary just in two languages, Malayalam and Tamil instead of four in 2012 as they found it difficult to proofread due to lack of experts in the field. The thorny path pricked Sreedharan, even more, when the handwritten dictionary went missing at the institute. Sreedharan filed a legal notice and in 2014, the dictionary was retrieved. Another copy of the dictionary is with the Kerala Sahitya Akademi. Sreedharan could make his dream come true with the efforts of the Senior Citizens Forum in Kerala and the complete dictionary including the words of all four languages was published on 1st November 2020.
Years of Toil: 
25 years of sweating ink to ensure the outcome of a linguistic masterpiece that helps the generations to come in ways innumerable is commendable. Hats off to this linguistic genius who never gave up. He's truly an inspiration to those who are afraid of long-term goals.
  
 
 
  Share on Social Media  
         
 
 
 
  This May Interest you…  
 
 Meet the Aipan artist and know more about her and the dying ART. 
 
 Meet the Teen who won the Third Place at K-POP World festival 2016 in Changwon, South Korea and her love for the culture, language, songs, dramas and every thing Korean. 
 
 Indian-born economist becomes the IMF Chief. 
 
 Here is the first Indian woman to FLY SOLO before independence. She proved that skies are open to women. 
 
 Meet the Keralite who fought all odds to become the first Indian Miss Trans Global 2021. 
 
 How this jobless graduate turned into a 'doctor for beggars' is simply inspiring! 
 
 Meet the 'lady Singham' who was married off at 14, but cracked UPSC. 
 
 Teenager's innovation Seedographer may help the farmer in sowing seeds. 
 
 
 « Previous Next Article »
 
  Do you have an Achievement worth Sharing.? Send us a Mail: thebookofachievers@gmail.com or Click here to Sign-Up and Add it Yourself. 
       
 
        If you find anything in this Article to be False, Incorrect or Inappropriate, Please bring it to our Notice. 
       If you Like to contribute to this Page, Please Drop us a Mail. 
        thebookofachievers@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
  Similar Achievements  
 
 Success is beyond the classroom & books says college drop out whose FRiEnDz magazine has thousands of readers. 
 
 Manoj the Strongest Man is a renowned international motivational speaker. His mantra “say yes to life and no to drugs”  
 
 Adventure Sports as an Alternative Career 
 
 Railway employee builds a power Para-glider. Here's the story. 
 
 Terrace gardening is creating a buzz on social media. Imagine Multicolor Corn. 
 
 An architect from Tamil Nadu has built a portable house on an auto-rickshaw with solar panel. 
 
 Her art is all about human emotions. You can feel it 
 
 Belgian artist's painting have a strong pop and street art influence. 
 
4 Dravidian languages dictionarySreedharanKannada DictionaryTamil DictionaryTelugu DictionaryMalayalam DictionaryDravidian languagesnjattyela sreedharan
 
  Trending Now  
 
 Meet the Aipan artist and know more about her and the dying ART. 
 
 Meet the Teen who won the Third Place at K-POP World festival 2016 in Changwon, South Korea and her love for the culture, language, songs, dramas and every thing Korean. 
 
 Indian-born economist becomes the IMF Chief. 
 
 Here is the first Indian woman to FLY SOLO before independence. She proved that skies are open to women. 
 
 Meet the Keralite who fought all odds to become the first Indian Miss Trans Global 2021. 
 
 How this jobless graduate turned into a 'doctor for beggars' is simply inspiring! 
 
 Meet the 'lady Singham' who was married off at 14, but cracked UPSC. 
 
 Teenager's innovation Seedographer may help the farmer in sowing seeds. 
 
ABOUT US
 Book of Achievers is a platform dedicated to all the Achievers across the globe. It aims to curate the stories of achievers from divergent fields and showcase them on a single platform with an intention to provide equal opportunity to the lesser known as well as the prominent achievers.
The stories of achievers, irrespective of age, region and timeline are bought to the readers in a way to spread the fire of inspiration. 
CATEGORIES
  Sports(256) 
  Science & Engineering(88) 
  Entertainment(118) 
  Corporate(116) 
  Hobbies & Interests(166) 
  Social Science & Services(434) 
  Miscellaneous(20) 
  All Categories(1198) 
Quick Access Tags
 Top Viewed Achievers 
 Added this Week 
 Added this Month 
 Added this Year 
 International Level 
 National Level 
 State Level 
 District Level 
 University Level 
 Alphabetical Order (Straight) 
 Alphabetical Order (Reverse) 
 View Randomly 
 
 Copyright © 2020,  www.bookofachievers.com   All Rights Reserved 
About Us
FAQs
Terms
Privacy Policy
 
 Book of Achievers website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website  learn more  Ok
 
 
Do you have an Achievement / Talent worth sharing..?  Drop us an E-Mail  Add Directly
No Thanks, I'm Just Browsing
 
 
 
 
 