 
Ramleela — National Trust of Trinidad and Tobago
 
 
 Main MenuDONATEJOINVOLUNTEER PORTALLOGIN
 
Main MenuHomeAbout UsWho we areNational Trust ActStrategic PlanGeneral MeetingGeneral Meeting 2023General Meeting 2022General Meeting 2021General Meeting 2020General Meeting 2019Request InformationLatest NewsAnnual ReportsWhat We DoOur TeamHeritage SitesListed Properties of InterestListing Policy & ProcessHeritage Site NominationBook an Event at Mille Fleurs (weddings, microevents and more)Explore Banwari Trace Archaeological SiteExperience the history of Nelson IslandOur StoriesBlogTrusted ArticlesNewsletterExhibitionsAre you a student? Get involved in our heritage keepers programme!Who We AreEventsToursEventsLecturesEnjoy Private ToursShopToursTrust ShopMembershipMy Account0     Search                     More results...              Generic filters          DonateJoinVolunteer PortalLog In
Ramleela
Home » Ramleela
September 8, 2017
Ramleela is a Hindu tradition that takes place every year before Divali. Last October, The National Trust went up to the Ramleela grounds in Cedar Hill, Princes Town, which boasts one of the oldest Ramleela celebrations in Trinidad.
Ramleela is a dramatic re-enactment of the Ramayana, and takes place over the course of 10 days.
Day 1: Puja
Day 2: Birth of Sri Ram
Day 3: Sri Sita and Ram Vivah
Day 4: Exile of Sri Ram
Day 5: Ram meets the boat man
Day 6: The abduction of Sita by Ravan
Day 7: Battle between Sugreev and Bali
Day 8: Lord Hanuman goes to Lanka
Day 9: Lakshman wounded
Day 10: Destruction of Megnada, Kumbakaran and Ravan (Burning of Effigy of Ravan)
As you walk into the Cedar Hill Recreational Grounds, there are all of the East Indian delicacies available to purchase, vendors selling light-up toys to unsuspecting parents.
Each night’s Leela starts with prayers, before the action starts. During the reenactment, the narrator dramatically reads the story while the actors improvise their dialogue – the older more experienced actors add more zing and commentary to their speech than the younger ones who huddle together. Everyone stays on “stage” for the entire duration of the Leela.
Visually, the Leela is amazing. The set is about 20 feet high, and brightly coloured, and the actors sport their traditional Indian garb. During the drama, there are special effects complete with fireworks, pulleys and ziplines. Every scene is punctuated with the music of tassa drums and dancing around the amphitheatre.
On the final night, there is more excitement and commotion than all the other days. Just the night before, the effigy of Ravan wasn’t done. It was clear that the organisers had worked tirelessly to complete the effigy to burn at the end of the final Leela.
 
My Ramleela Highlights: 
The celebration of Ramleela brings together the community – men, women, young and old – This aspect of East Indian culture is shared and encourages the participation of the children and their parents.
Everyone stays on stage for the duration of the dramatic re-enactment.
The special effects are very ingenious
Mystical smokeHere’s Lord Hanuman Flying
For the final night, people came from all over the country to see the community of Cedar Hill display their cultural heritage. It was a beautiful site for all to behold.
This year, we will be returning to the Cedar Hill Ramleela. Let us know if you are interested in coming down with us!
Categories: Blog
Tags:
   ← Emancipation and the Treasury Building     A Story of Survival: Vodun in Trinidad and Tobago →  
 Author Recent Posts  Tiy Cross LovelaceTiy Cross-Lovelace is the Outreach Officer at the National Trust of Trinidad and Tobago. She is highly involved and interested in the culture of Trinidad and Tobago and the region, specifically carnival and the arts. She loves long walks in the bush and learning about the heritage of Trinidad and Tobago. Latest posts by Tiy Cross Lovelace (see all)  The Brass Collection - April 21, 2023   Vacancy Legal and Compliance Officer - November 22, 2022   Annual Report 2020-2021 - November 16, 2022 
Get Involved
Join Donate Volunteer Shop
Explore
Private Tours Virtual Tours
About Us
What We Do Who we are National Trust Act Our Team
Heritage Sites
Listed Sites Mille Fleurs Nelson Island Banwari Trace
Our Stories
Blogs Trusted Articles
Learning
Learning Resources Become a Heritage Keeper
Contact Us

Office Phone: 1(868) 225-4750Cell: 1(868) 706-6316

Mille Fleurs23 Maraval Road, St Clair.

Email: info@nationaltrust.tt

Opening Hours:Monday – Friday 9am – 4pm
The National Trust of Trinidad and Tobago is an associate member of INTO:
  FollowFollowFollowFollow 
 Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Refund Policy Return and Exchange Policy FAQs 
 
Copyright All Rights Reserved © 2021. Powered by Proudfoot Communications Ltd.
 We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings. Accept Reject Settings
 X Close
0          
 X
 X
 X
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
 
  Privacy Overview  
  Strictly Necessary Cookies  
  Cookie Policy  
 Powered by  GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
 This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
  Enable or Disable Cookies    If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.
Cookie Policy
 This Cookie Policy was last updated on the 25th September 2020.   1.0   INTRODUCTION National Trust of Trinidad and Tobago, a membership-based organisation established by the National Trust of Trinidad and Tobago Act Chap. 40:53 with its business address at 68-70, Sackville Street, Port of Spain, Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (‘We’ or ‘Us’ or ‘Our’) may use cookies, web beacons, tracking pixels, and other tracking technologies when you visit Our website -  Nationaltrust.tt -  including any other media form, media channel, mobile website, or mobile application related or connected thereto (collectively, the “Website”) to help customize the Website and improve your experience. We reserve the right to make changes to this Cookie Policy at any time and for any reason. We will alert the user(s) of this Website (‘You’) about any changes by updating the “Last Updated” date of this Cookie Policy. Any changes or modifications will be effective immediately upon posting the updated Cookie Policy on the Website, and You waive the right to receive specific notice of such change or modification. You are encouraged to periodically review this Cookie Policy to stay informed of updates. You will be deemed to have been made aware of, will be subject to, and will be deemed to have accepted the changes in any revised Cookie Policy by Your continued use of the Website after the date such revised Cookie Policy is posted.     2.0   USE OF COOKIES A ‘cookie’ is a string of information which assigns You a unique identifier that We store on Your computer. Your browser then provides that unique identifier to use each time You submit a query to the Site. We use cookies on the Website to, among other things, keep track of services You have used, record registration information, record Your user preferences, keep You logged into the Site, facilitate purchase procedures, and track the pages You visit. Cookies help Us understand how the Website is being used and improve Your user experience.     3.0    TYPES OF COOKIES The following types of cookies may be used when You visit the Website: 3.1       Advertising Cookies Advertising cookies are placed on Your computer by advertisers and ad servers in order to display advertisements that are most likely to be of interest to You. These cookies allow advertisers and ad servers to gather information about Your visits to the Site and other websites, alternate the ads sent to a specific computer, and track how often an ad has been viewed and by whom. These cookies are linked to a computer and do not gather any personal information about You.   3.2       Analytics Cookies Analytics cookies monitor how users reached the Website, and how they interact with and move around once on the Website. These cookies let Us know what features on the Website are working the best and which features on the Website can be improved.   3.3       Our Cookies Our cookies are “first-party cookies”, and can be either permanent or temporary. These are necessary cookies, without which the Website will not work properly or be able to provide certain features and functionalities. Some of these may be manually disabled in Your browser but may affect the functionality of the Website.   3.4       Personalization Cookies Personalization cookies are used to recognise repeat visitors to the Website. We use these cookies to record Your browsing history, the pages You have visited, and Your settings and preferences each time You visit the Website.   3.5       Security Cookies Security cookies help identify and prevent security risks. We use these cookies to authenticate users and protect user data from unauthorised parties.   3.6       Site Management Cookies Site management cookies are used to maintain Your identity or session on the Website so that You are not logged off unexpectedly, and any information You enter is retained from page to page. These cookies cannot be turned off individually, but You can disable all cookies in Your browser.   3.7       Third Party Cookies When You visit the Website third party cookies may be placed on Your computer by companies that run certain services We offer. These cookies allow the third parties to gather and track certain information about You. These cookies can be manually disabled in Your browser.     4.0   CONTROL OF COOKIES Most browsers are set to accept cookies by default. However, You can remove or reject cookies in Your browser’s settings. Please be aware that such action could affect the availability and functionality of the Website.     5.0   OTHER TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES In addition to cookies, web beacons, pixel tags, and other tracking technologies may be used on the Website to help customise the Site and improve your experience. A ‘web beacon’ or ‘pixel tag’ is a tiny object or image embedded in a web page or email. They are used to track the number of users who have visited particular pages and viewed emails, and acquire other statistical data. They collect only a limited set of data, such as a cookie number, time and date of page or email view, and a description of the page or email on which they reside. Web beacons and pixel tags cannot be declined. However, You can limit their use by controlling the cookies that interact with them.     6.0   PRIVACY POLICY For more information about how we use information collected by cookies and other tracking technologies, please refer to Our Privacy Policy posted on Our Website. This Cookie Policy is part of and is incorporated into Our Privacy Policy and the Terms and Condition of Use of the Website. By using the Website, You agree to be bound by this Cookie Policy, Our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions of Use.     7.0   CONTACT US If you have questions or comments about this Cookie Policy, please contact Us at: National Trust of Trinidad and Tobago 68-70, Sackville Street Port of Spain Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. info@nationaltrust.tt
 Enable All Save Settings