Wikipedia:Wikipedia Signpost/2013-01-21/Technology report - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Wikipedia:Wikipedia Signpost/2013-01-21/Technology report
Add languages
Add links
Project pageTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Wikipedia:Wikipedia Signpost‎ | 2013-01-21
← Back to ContentsView Latest Issue21 January 2013
Technology report
Data centre migration successful
Contribute  —  
Share this
 E-mail
 Facebook
 Twitter
 LinkedIn
 Reddit
 Digg
By Jarry1250
Switchover "a success"
Servers at the Ashburn data centre
On 22 January, WMF staff and contractors switched incoming, non-cached requests (including edits) to the Foundation's newer data centre in Ashburn, Virginia, making it responsible for handling almost all regular traffic. For the first time since 2004, virtually no traffic will be handled by the WMF's other facility in Tampa, Florida.
"Located in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, Ashburn offers faster and more reliable connectivity than Tampa, and usually fewer hurricanes", wrote Guillaume Paumier, the Foundation's Technical Communications Manager in a comprehensive blog post published before the switchover.
As of time of writing, the migration has been declared a success, with the two "backup" maintenance windows previously scheduled for later this week scrapped. Total editing downtime so far has been estimated at 30 minutes, with other smaller problems extending further. Overall, however, the migration seems to have been characterised by its praise-worthily minimal impact.
The data centre in Tampa will continue to be maintained as a "hot failover", with "servers ... in standby mode[, ready] to take over, should the primary site experience an outage. Server configuration and data will be synchronized between the two locations to ensure a transition as smooth as possible in case of technical difficulties in Ashburn", writes Paumier. Additionally, the Signpost understands that the Tampa data centre will continue to be used for image scaling in the short term, before that too is migrated to Ashburn. Across the two data centres, the Wikimedia Foundation currently operates a total of approximately 885 servers, serving around 20 billion page views a month.
First Quarterly Review makes for interesting reading
The E3 team presented the outcomes from their last three months to senior managers this week, in the first of a series of quarterly reviews.
On 19 December, WMF Deputy Director Erik Möller committed the Foundation to holding quarterly reviews of all its major engineering projects, including the Visual Editor, Mobile, Echo and Flow projects. First up, however, was the Editor Engagement Experiments (E3) team, who held their review last week. That meeting included both the E3 team itself, as well as senior managers at the Foundation (Executive Director Sue Gardner, Director of Features Engineering Terry Chay, and Erik himself), with the draft transcript giving an interesting insight into a world that can often appear to community members as inherently homogeneous. 
The report phase of the meeting makes for mixed reading. Although all of the E3 team's projects – post-edit feedback, improving the account creation process, "Onboarding" (giving new users more information on possible editing tasks), and a campaign targeted at donors – appeared in some sense successful, none has yet been able to make a sizeable dent into the English Wikipedia's editor decline. Onboarding showed the most promise, with an unconfirmed 30% increase in users making an edit to mainspace within 24 hours of registering (21.7% vs. 16.5%); a newer project, looking at the provision of "guided tours" (walkthroughs) of the site, was also discussed. The analysis phase focussed on the balance between foundational and user-facing work, the lack of integration between the E3 and E2 teams (i.e. Echo and Flow), and the extent to which gains in terms of "1+ edit" users translated into increases in the numbering of returning editors. There was also disagreement about whether the E3 team was focussed tightly enough on the active editors brief.
The Visual Editor and Mobile projects (including mobile editing and Wikipedia Zero subprojects) are both scheduled to be reviewed in February, although the exact format of the review may be tweaked between then and now.
In brief
Not all fixes may have gone live to WMF sites at the time of writing; some may not be scheduled to go live for several weeks.
First Wikidata client launch fares well: The first deployment of the Wikidata to the Hungarian Wikipedia was a success, its team says. The Wikidata client, the function of which at the moment is to make decentralised language links obsolete, launched on the wiki on 14 January (see previous Signpost coverage). Although several bugs have since been reported, they were of a minor nature, says Lydia Pintscher, Wikidata's community liaison; further deployments – to the Hebrew and Italian Wikipedias – remain pencilled in for 30 January.
WMF begin hiring process for Toolserver migration contractor: The Wikimedia Foundation has begun its search for a contractor to help oversee the potentially contentious migration of tools from the Wikimedia Deutschland-run Toolserver to the in-house Wikimedia Labs (see also previous Signpost coverage). The full time contractor – who will be contracted for some 840 hours of work in total – will focus on "assisting community developers to migrate their tools to this new Labs infrastructure, especially those residing in Toolserver today", but should also be prepared to help improve and support the Labs platform to ensure the migration runs smoothly (official job posting).
← Previous "Technology report"Next "Technology report" →
In this issue21 January 2013News and notes
WikiProject report
Featured content
Arbitration report
Technology report
+ Add a commentDiscuss this story
These comments are automatically transcluded from this article's talk page. To follow comments, add the page to your watchlist. If your comment has not appeared here, you can try purging the cache.
On First Quarterly Review makes for interesting reading, just wanted to chime in with two points...
The transcript is super bare bones, so if anyone has questions please don't be shy about using the talk page. :)
If anyone is interested, we recently decided to make what was formerly a private team mailing list a public one. Feel free to join the Editor Engagement list if you want, though you're warned that we often talk about details of ongoing projects without a lot of background or introduction for those completely unfamiliar.
Anyway, thanks for the coverage Jarry! Steven Walling (WMF) • talk  22:30, 23 January 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
"885 servers" - Are you sure that's just in tampa and dc data centers. The blog post made it sound like that was the grand total, and there are a couple servers in the Netherlands. Bawolff (talk) 22:50, 23 January 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I had my own doubts, so I asked that very question on IRC yesterday. Unfortunately I didn't get an answer, so I decided to leave it as-is. - Jarry1250 [Deliberation needed] 22:59, 23 January 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
The data centre migration seems to coincide with a delay I've been seeing in article cache invalidation.  Prior to 22 January, edits I submitted were immediately reflected as the latest version of the article, assuming the page wasn't subject to pending change review (ah, the ever-increasing indignities of editing without logging in). In other words, after supplying an edit summary and submitting a change, the article page would automatically refresh, perhaps with a brief delay, with the changes visible. This isn't necessarily true anymore.  In the past, even when the site was under a heavy load for one reason or another, a subsequent null edit would let me see the version of the article that reflected my changes;  that isn't necessarily true anymore. Another change I never saw until now: it is possible for a null edit/purge to fail even when article history shows my changes.  In other words, it now appears possible for the most recent WP:permalink for an article to differ from the default version of an article.  Assuming I had just edited Metacarcinus these can now differ, something I haven't seen before, after years of editing:
http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Metacarcinus&oldid=462270535
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metacarcinus
68.165.77.6 (talk) 04:23, 25 January 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I am seeing a lot of outdated information, especially Talk pages and Revision histories, what can be done about that? 82.113.98.49 (talk) 08:35, 27 January 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
There have been problems with out of date pages being displayed to readers in Europe who are not logged in. See Wikipedia:Village pump (technical)#Users reporting site time issues and delay in visible update of edits for current reports and feedback. According to #wikimedia-tech logs, at least one fix has been applied unsuccessfully; WMF network operations engineer LeslieCarr has been investigating. — Richardguk (talk) 19:54, 27 January 2013 (UTC)Reply[reply]
The Signpost is looking for new talent.
Home
About
Archives
Newsroom
Subscribe
Suggestions
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Wikipedia_Signpost/2013-01-21/Technology_report&oldid=1136366202"
Category: Wikipedia Signpost archives 2013-01
 This page was last edited on 30 January 2023, at 00:29 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width