Alex Shalom Kohav | Metropolitan State University of Denver - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Alex Shalom KohavMetropolitan State University of Denver,  Philosophy,  AdjunctEpistemology+65Alex Shalom Kohav, PhD, is a philosopher and an artist; he teaches at the Department of Philosophy, Metropolitan State University of Denver. His research has established a new area of scholarly study: Pentateuchal mysticism and First Temple ancient Israelite priestly initiation tradition (achieved, among other things, via Husserl's noema-noesis-hyle distinctions enabling "reverse-engineering" from the text to the practices that inspired it). Kohav is currently reconstructing/developing ancient Israelite philosophy, i.e., the foundational Hebraic metaphysics, epistemology, phenomenology, and ethics of early-antiquity Israel.Address: Boulder, Coloradoless210 Followers175 Following4 Co-authorsTotal Views ;16 Public MentionsFollowFollowingall6 Books9 Papers3 Interviews2 Blogs1 About The Sôd HypothesisMore  16 ADDENDA FOR "EARLY ISRAEL" BOOKBooksEarly Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis (full pre-publication text)Routledge,  2023THIS IS THE PRE-PUBLICATION TEXT

IT DOES NOT CONTAIN EXHIBITS, FIGURES, OR TABLES (THESE CAN B... more THIS IS THE PRE-PUBLICATION TEXT IT DOES NOT CONTAIN EXHIBITS, FIGURES, OR TABLES (THESE CAN BE FOUND IN THE SECTION "ADDENDA FOR 'EARLY ISRAEL' BOOK") KINDLY QUOTE FROM THE PUBLISHED VERSION AbstractEarly Israel offers the most sweeping reinterpretation of the Pentateuch since the nineteenth-century Documentary Hypothesis. Engaging a dozen-plus modern academic disciplines—from anthropology, biblical studies, Egyptology, and semiotics, to linguistics, cognitive poetics, and consciousness studies; from religious studies, Jewish studies, psychoanalysis and literary criticism, to mysticism studies, cognitive psychology, phenomenology and philosophy of mind—it wrests from the Pentateuch an outline of the heretofore undiscovered ancient Israelite mystical-initiatory tradition of the First Temple priests. The book effectively launches a new research area: Pentateuchal esoteric mysticism, akin to a “center” or “organizing principle” discussed in biblical theology. The recovered priestly system is discordant vis-à-vis the much-later rabbinical project. This volume appeals to a diverse academic community, from Biblical and Jewish studies to literary studies, religious studies, anthropology, and consciousness studies.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
"Author Flyer" (Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis, Routledge, 2023)THIS IS THE PUBLISHER'S DESCRIPTIVE FLYER, WITH A PRICE DISCOUNT AND REVIEW COPY REQUESTS

"[Ea... more THIS IS THE PUBLISHER'S DESCRIPTIVE FLYER, WITH A PRICE DISCOUNT AND REVIEW COPY REQUESTS "[Early Israel] is a bold, panoptic book that draws from many fields of knowledge, ancient and modern, in order to offer a startling esoteric understanding of Torah, one that leads us to seek a recovery of Eden, not as a place, but as a state of mind. In its sheer reach and in its fascinating corridors, Alex Kohav's book has the potential to change everyone who reads it."- Kevin Hart, University of Virginia "Kohav's revisiting of the ancient text shows that deeply ineffable, but profoundly transformative experiences of divinity are accessible through the Sôd channel of the Hebrew scriptures."- Laura E. Weed, The College of Saint Rose "Kohav's book is a magnum opus in the fullest sense of this term."- Elana Gomel, Tel-Aviv University "Kohav's magisterial volume envelopes the reader with a breathtaking array of disciplines: diverse intellectual and spiritual shovels are put at our disposal with which to dig deeply beneath the biblical text. The intense process of digging is one of being led along a path through a wilderness that is at once a dense forest and a clear-aired desert. The path is toward an unexpected garden of unearthly delights whose myriad blossoms grow from roots that are Hebrew and Greek; ancient and contemporary; Socratic and Husserlian―and are compelling in their strange beauty."- Ori Z. Soltes, Georgetown UniversitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Mysticism and Experience: Twenty-First-Century Approaches, edited by Alex S. Kohav (Lexington Books, 2020)"Unutterable Experiences of Consciousness Alteration" (Introduction, pp. 1-15) ,  2020

Any person interested in mysticism will find this book of great value. Although writing about... more Any person interested in mysticism will find this book of great value. Although writing about mystical experiences can be likened to “sending a kiss by mail,” there is much to be learned from the essays here. The book covers topics ranging from the anthropology of Mongolian shamanism to psychedelic drugs, symbolic aspects of mystical experiences and attempts to communicate such experiences, attempts to scientifically explain mystical states, and questions of the very possibility of such explanations. Important and provocative questions are raised: What sort of experiences count as “mystical?” Of the variety of such experiences, how can they be explained? Are there only physiological and psychological grounds or is there a transcendent reality that is contacted during mystical experiences? If a transcendent reality, how is it that it appears different to different people? How can such experiences be described if they are ineffable? And, what difference might there be between a mystical experience and the ordinary experience of our everyday world?         -- Burton Voorhees, Athabasca University This book is a vast, profound, and modern approach to mysticism. The high-level researchers and authors participating in the book come from philosophy, spiritual studies, cognitive sciences, art studies, psychiatry, and literature, bringing authentic and meaningful interdisciplinary approach to the subject.          -- Louis Hébert, University of Quebec at Rimouski  "Mysticism and Experience: Twenty-First-Century Approaches" embarks on an investigation of the concept of mysticism from the standpoint of academic fields, including philosophy, anthropology, religious studies, mysticism studies, literary studies, art criticism, cognitive poetics, cognitive science, psychology, medical research, and even mathematics. Scholars across disciplines observe that, although it has experienced both cyclical approval and disapproval, mysticism seems to be implicated as a key foundation of religion, along with comprising the highest forms of social, cultural, intellectual, and artistic creations. This book is divided into four sections: The Exposure, The Symbolic, The Cognitive, and The Scientific, covering the fundamental aspects of the phenomenon known as mysticism. Contributors, taking advantage of recent advances in disciplinary approaches to understanding mystical phenomena, address the question of whether progress can be made to systemically enrich, expand, and advance our understanding of mysticism. The "Introduction: Unutterable Experiences of Consciousness Alteration" is by the volume's editor, Alex S. Kohav.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Mysticism and Meaning: Multidisciplinary Perspectives, edited by Alex S. Kohavby Alex Shalom Kohav, harry hunt, Burt Voorhees, Gregory M Nixon, and Louis HébertThree Pines Press,  2019 A collection of essays that explores the many dimensions of the mystical, including personal, th... more A collection of essays that explores the many dimensions of the mystical, including personal, theoretical, and historical. Kohav, a professor of philosophy at the Metropolitan State College of Denver and the editor of this collection, provocatively asks why mysticism is such an "objectionable" topic and considered intellectually disreputable. Borrowing from Jacques Derrida's distinction between aporia (or unsolvable confusion) and a solvable problem, the author suggests mystical phenomena are better understood through the lens of mysterium, that which is beyond the categories of reason and can only be captured by dint of intuition and personal experience. In fact, the contributors to this intellectually kaleidoscopic volume present several autobiographical accounts of precisely such an encounter with the mystically inscrutable. For example, in one essay, Gregory M. Nixon relates "the shattering moment in my life when I awoke from the dream of self to find being as part of the living world and not in my head." The religious dimensions of mystical experience are also explored: Buddhist, Christian, and Judaic texts, including the Bible, are examined to explicate and compare their divergent interpretations. Contributor Jacob Rump argues that the ineffable is central to Wittgenstein's worldview, and Ori Z. Soltes contends that philosophers like Socrates and Spinoza, famous for their valorization of reason, are incomprehensible without also considering the limits they impose on reason and the value they assign to ineffable experience. The collection is precisely as multidisciplinary as billed. It includes a wealth of varying perspectives, both personal and scholarly. Furthermore, the book examines the application of these ideas to contemporary debates. Richard H. Jones, for instance, challenges that mysticism and science ultimately converge into a single explanatory whole. The prose can be prohibitively dense--much of it is written in a jargon-laden academic parlance--and the book is not intended for a popular audience. Within a remarkably technical discussion of the proper interpretive approach to sacred texts, contributor Brian Lancaster declares: "For these reasons I propose incorporating a hermeneutic component to extend the integration of neuroscientific and phenomenological data that defines neurophenomenology." However, Kohav's anthology is still a stimulating tour of the subject, philosophically enthralling and wide reaching. An engrossing, diverse collection of takes on mystical phenomena.                                                                                                                                 - Kirkus Reviews  The volume investigates the question of meaning of mystical phenomena and, conversely, queries the concept of “meaning” itself, via insights afforded by mystical experiences. The collection brings together researchers from such disparate fields as philosophy, psychology, history of religion, cognitive poetics, and semiotics, in an effort to ascertain the question of mysticism’s meaning through pertinent, up-to-date multidisciplinarity. The discussion commences with Editor’s Introduction that probes persistent questions of complexity as well as perplexity of mysticism and the reasons why problematizing mysticism leads to even greater enigmas. One thread within the volume provides the contextual framework for continuing fascination of mysticism that includes a consideration of several historical traditions as well as personal accounts of mystical experiences: Two contributions showcase ancient Egyptian and ancient Israelite involvements with mystical alterations of consciousness and Christianity’s origins being steeped in mystical praxis; and four essays highlight mysticism’s formative presence in Chinese traditions and Tibetan Buddhism as well as medieval Judaism and Kabbalah mysticism. A second, more overarching strand within the volume is concerned with multidisciplinary investigations of the phenomenon of mysticism, including philosophical, psychological, cognitive, and semiotic analyses. To this effect, the volume explores the question of philosophy’s relation to mysticism and vice versa, together with a Wittgensteinian nexus between mysticism, facticity, and truth; language mysticism and “supernormal meaning” engendered by certain mystical states; and a semiotic scrutiny of some mystical experiences and their ineffability. Finally, the volume includes an assessment of the so-called New Age authors’ contention of the convergence of scientific and mystical claims about reality. The above two tracks are appended with personal, contemporary accounts of mystical experiences, in the Prologue; and a futuristic envisioning, as a fictitious chronicle from the time-to-come, of life without things mystical, in the Postscript. The volume contains thirteen chapters; its international contributors are based in Canada, United Kingdom, and the United States.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
THE SÔD HYPOTHESIS 
Phenomenological, Semiotic, Cognitive, and Noetic-Literary Recovery of the Pentateuch’s Embedded Inner-Core Mystical Initiation Tradition of Ancient Israelite Cultic Religion “Kohav's book is a highly original and widely erudite derivation of a numinous-mystical core, ba... more “Kohav's book is a highly original and widely erudite derivation of a numinous-mystical core, based on inferred early initiation and esoteric practices, as the experiential and esoteric source of the early Judaism of the Pentateuch. [Applying] his extensive knowledge of  critical-interpretive methodologies, Kohav…demonstrate[s] the plausibility of this numinous-mystical core in early Judaism, where it has been generally assumed to be absent.”- Harry T. Hunt, Brock University, author of ‘On the Nature of Consciousness’ (Yale, 1995) and ‘Lives in Spirit’ (SUNY, 2003) “Th[e] central question to be solved by the ‘Sôd hypothesis’ is of great intellectual interest....[Kohav] demonstrate[s] the validity of his hypothesis in an objective way....[H]e explains WHY the ‘literal’ interpretation of the problematic key passages fails, and HOW…this shifts the reader’s interpretation strategy from a literal context to the search for another less literal one, given that we search for meaning when reading.”- Anna St. Leger Lucas [Whiteside], McMaster University, co-editor of ‘On Referring in Literature’ (Indiana University, 1987) “I am unaware of scholars who actually deal with the question of esoteric knowledge and secret interpretations of biblical texts during Iron Age II, ca. 920-586 BCE….Biblicists of my ken assume that even though not everybody knew everything, knowledge was open.…Kohav is aware that scholars are unaware that a problem exists, that something interesting exists in the [Pentateuchal] text that has not yet been queried.…Everything…has been filtered and fined through his sophisticated approach. Kohav reads, synthesizes, and develops complicated arguments logically to a conclusion, drawing together data and ideas from disparate sources and disciplines….In the end, Kohav owns all of his arguments.”- Ziony Zevit, American Jewish University, author of ‘The Religions of Ancient Israel’ (Continuum, 2001) "I have finished [reading Kohav’s] 'Sod [Hypothesis].' I like it very much...- because of [its] original hypothesis (good argumentation!)- because of the way [the author] harmonized a spiritual path and an academic path- and also because of [its] well worded attacks against the dumb flock of post-modernists ;-)"- Pierre Lévy, University of Ottawa, author of 'The Semantic Sphere 1' (Wiley-ISTE, 2011) and 'Collective Intelligence' (Basic Books, 1994) Apropos of Kohav’s earlier work: “A preposterously beautiful work of Jewish mystery wisdom, rendered in a language akin to the poetic and heart-stirring vernacular of the ancient and early-medieval Kabbalists, cryptic yet accessible, deep yet reachable. The theories and concepts put forth in Dr. Kohav's rendition and interpretation of this precious body of esoteric wisdom are totally refreshing as well as loyal to what kabbalah is all about. Other than my own books, this is the first contemporary work on the Kabbalah by someone else that I will feel comfortable in recommending.” - R. Gershon Winkler, author of ‘The Way of the Boundary Crosser’ (Aronson, 1998) and ‘Magic of the Ordinary: Recovering the Shamanic in Judaism’ (North Atlantic Books, 2003)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
ORI Z. SOLTES Ontogeny of Light: Apples, Suns, Mirrors, Electricities—Limitless Light, Oscillating Silences, Immersive Realms/The Art of Alex Shalom KohavCanal Street Studios,  2020"Traversing across the medieval traditions of the Carpathian Mountains to the digital networks of... more "Traversing across the medieval traditions of the Carpathian Mountains to the digital networks of contemporary America, Alex Shalom Kohav’s odyssey emerges as a wandering Jewish idol smasher. Professor Ori Soltes illuminates the pathways for appreciating Kohav’s cerebral visuality and mystifying numinosity. Replicating Kohav’s six-sided constructions, Soltes offers readers a mindboggling overview of contemporary art existing within its own multi-dimensional cryptography. With the talmudic insights of Maimonides and critical sophistication of Harold Rosenberg, Soltes gently escorts us en pointe across the millennia of time and space on a tight-rope drawn by Kohav. We are indeed fortunate to have Soltes’ penetrating unraveling of Kohav’s artistic “search for truth.” For art lovers and spiritual searchers in the 21st century, prepare to understand how this Jewish avatar’s ineffable iconography is translated into meaningful exegesis."–  Philip Eliasoph, Professor of Art History and Visual Culture, Fairfield University; Arts & Visual Culture blogger for The New York Times InEducation.com  "Artistic revolutions seldom happen in a vacuum....Is revolution in the air again?...According to a poster-sized statement that [the Boulder artist] Kohav worked up for the show [at the Boulder Public Library and the National Center for Atmospheric Research, also in Boulder]—the “VWHAM!99/00: Very Wired ‘Hot’ Art Manifesto”—traditional ways of producing art can be characterized as “windows” designed by artists to represent reality.... [Kohav’s] technologically inspired idea of “monitors” leads to the concept of “doors,” which will allow a “grown-up humanity” to directly observe and interact with reality....“What I am saying is we should no longer look at anything presented through (the window).” So, you may wonder, how do we go about doing that? If the works that went up at NCAR on Nov. 19 (“O!Zone Monitor” and Oxygen Monitor”) are any indication, Kohav means to spark the aesthetic for the next century with crude wooden and electronic constructions that serve as vehicles for intriguing arrays of quickly flashing lights of all sizes and shapes....Set up just beyond the entrance to NCAR amid bulky, utilitarian scientific displays, Kohav’s monitors look a little out of place, explosions of color and movement against the grayish backdrop of scientific investigation....The lights blink according to patterns that Kohav borrowed from “brain machines,” those funny headsets that popped up a few years ago to help people relax and expand their thinking processes. With a little patience, the monitors can induce a rather pleasant trance state, not unlike watching a fire or running water. It’s an interesting mix of using technology for specifically artistic ends, and one that Kohav ...believes has a spiritual component as well."  –  J. Gluckstern, “The Visual Revolution will be Monitored,” Visual Arts Critic, Boulder Daily Camera’s “Friday Magazine," December 3, 1999    "In a sensitive and erudite analysis, Soltes skillfully blends psychology and aesthetics to creatively capture the exhaustive arc of Kohav’s artistic intentions. Ranging from science to poetry, painting to Kabbalah, installations to postmodern philosophy, Soltes nails the many essences of this multifaceted creative hurricane. Truly an epic monograph!" –  Richard McBee, Artist and Critic  "Playful, ironic and brave, the work of Alex Kohav represents a unique spirit simply not found in contemporary American Art. His is a European sensibility addressing art, science and religion with equal zeal, laying bare all three traditions. His career began with an almost Romantic aesthetic, to now one of expanded authorship where audiences participate in the creative process. His entire oeuvre questions the inflated and self-important nature of our culture, while asserting a radical other urgently needing to be communicated." –  Joel Silverstein, Artist, Curator, Critic, Exec. Committee Member – Jewish Art Salon, New York   "In this 'serious joyride in art, religion and spirituality,' Ori Z. Soltes provides brilliant insights as he charts Alexander Kohav’s moves from painting canvasses to creating environments into which the viewer is invited to become an active participant in order for the work to be completed. Kohav the creator is both artist and philosopher. His shift away from the ‘representational’ nature of even abstract painting, to direct presentation, brings up the question of what art is, and what its role is in human history. This book touches on many exciting issues, and is a great source for both the lay person and those well-versed in contemporary art." –  Yona Verwer, Artist and Director of the Jewish Art Salon, New York "Soltes considers the career of visual artist Alex Shalom Kohav in this work of art criticism. Born in 1948 in 'the medieval Carpathian Mountains town' that’s now known as Mukachevo—it was part of the Soviet Union then, though it was historically located in Hungary and is now in Ukraine—Kohav moved to San Francisco in 1976 and quickly joined the city’s art and poetry scene. In his subsequent career as a visual artist he has lived and worked in many places, and his own movement between figurative and abstract painting and installation art has mirrored this migratory tendency. His passions and influences have included New Age spiritualism and the vast scope of Chinese, Egyptian, and Western art. 'The combination of his interests and talents suggests that he is a difficult individual to define,' writes Soltes in his introduction, '…yet there is an organic consistency to the phylogeny of his work into which all of the various ontogenic parts can be seen to assume their interconnected places.' In this survey of Kohav’s oeuvre, Soltes analyzes the trends that carried through the different eras of the artist’s work as well as the individual projects that occupied him in particular periods. The text is accompanied by numerous full-color photographs of the relevant pieces and, in the case of installations, diagrams. Soltes, also the author of Then and Now (2019), writes for an academic audience, and his prose reflects the fact: 'Moreover, the emphasis on light as an instrument in this process of consciousness-elevation is consistent with the overall phylogeny of his art, from his paintings to his monitors to his observational and participatory installations; and it is consistent with his ever-expanding exploration of mysticism, particularly kabbalah.' Soltes succeeds in elucidating a great many of Kohav’s pieces, and it is sometimes stimulating to be walked through his interpretations of them, particularly the installations. . . . Kohav is not currently regarded as a major artist, but if that fact changes—perhaps even because of this work—Soltes’ thoughts on it will surely be of value to future art scholars. A dense, esoteric tome on a dense, esoteric artist."  –  Kirkus Reviews  Ontogeny of Light is the first full-scale and close-up look at Kohav’s lifelong journey as an artist. It analyzes and assesses the complex, often exceptional turns that the artist’s work takes in synthesizing an extraordinary range of ideas and in constructing a series of fascinating worlds into which the viewer—who is, increasingly, the participant—steps to think and feel along the path of transformation.  The book contains over 100 photographic images; a proposal by Ori Z. Soltes for the Kohav Museum of Kabbalistic Art (KMoKA); and the “Artist’s Afterword” presenting an intellectual and spiritual autobiographical sketch that offers an idiosyncratic view of the artist’s life and his mind. Kohav envisions a Museum of Limitless Light (MoLL) in Israel and a “(W)Rap-SoDa-in-Blue” Museum of Participatory Art—or (W)RapMoPA—in America, both based on his art.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Papers'Tis Twenty Twenty-Three—and Techno-Fascist Singularity Is HereInterrogating AI: The Promise, the Problems, the Future (Cognitive, Engineering, Psychological, Philosophical, Consciousness, and Science-Fictional Perspectives), edited by Alex S. Kohav and Julia Kohav,  2024Few would argue against the assertion that today we have become a technological society. This ess... more Few would argue against the assertion that today we have become a technological society. This essay endeavors to unpack the meaning and some of the consequences of this observable fact. First, the traditional division of the human self into an inner domain and an outer persona is now more and more heavily weighted toward the latter. The mind’s very interiority and subjectivity—privacy—is now being breached daily, routinely, and effortlessly by AI-enabled devices, amounting to a tyrannical manipulation of broad populations. The techno-fascist singularity has arrived. Second, the “posthuman” cyborgs are being applauded as the coming “overhuman” by some, who echo the early fascists and futurists, such as Marinetti, who celebrated the “beauty of speed” and machinery’s superiority to human capabilities. Third, technology’s emphasis on purposefulness and functionality, with their resultant “skewed sample of the events of the total mind” (Bateson), distorts our grasp of reality. The schema outlined by Rousseau and elaborated by Derrida—stretching from gods (or kings) to beasts or cattle, with human beings somewhere in the middle—is now tasked with accommodating AI-powered robots, too. Are robots going to be more like cattle or, perhaps, akin to gods? That robots can’t be human, the chapter argues, can be surmised from that which is impossible for AI-driven robots to attain: consciousness. The chapter further explores the intimate connection between AI and both psychology and cognitive science, identifying cognition as the foundation underlying the notion of intelligence in all three of these domains. Yet such an intelligence, being devoid of consciousness and relying on algorithms to achieve superior cognition, information processing speeds, and virtually unlimited working memory, cannot possibly engage in real thinking predicated on something other than algorithms or swift decisiveness. Since the overarching aims of cognition and AI alike are achievements of specific goals—among them survival and the thriving of the agent doing the cognizing—the relegating of humans to the status of cattle seems inevitable.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Introduction: Unutterable Experiences of Consciousness AlterationMysticism and Experience: Twenty-First-Century Approaches, edited by A.S. Kohav ,  2020The literature on mysticism, mystical phenomena, attempts at their classification and theorizing ... more The literature on mysticism, mystical phenomena, attempts at their classification and theorizing apropos of mystical phenomena’s explanatory causes, nature, meaning, and import is enormous. And yet, confusions and contradictions persist on multiple levels: from basic definitions and classifications to methodological and experiential approaches, to generated insights and conclusions that are themselves frequently examples of misapprehension and incoherence. Approaches will also understandably depend on, and be subject to, preconceived ideas and definitions of key terms; the latter can significantly, and sometimes fatally, undermine any ostensibly objective investigation. Yet another self-imposed and decisive handicap is the very methodology known as the “scientific method.” What is experience? Does reality have “the character of our experience”? To begin grasping mystical experiences requires the following basic realization: such experiences alter or entail alteration of the experiencer’s consciousness.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION TO "The Sôd Hypothesis: Phenomenological, Semiotic, Cognitive, and Noetic- Literary Recovery of the Pentateuch's Embedded Inner-Core Mystical Initiation Tradition of Ancient Israelite Cultic Religion"INTRODUCTION ABSTRACT The introductory chapter commences with a presentation of the notion of the... more INTRODUCTION ABSTRACT The introductory chapter commences with a presentation of the notion of the Sôd, or concealed esoteric stratum within the Pentateuch, including its limited, obscure usage in the rabbinical milieu. At the outset, it is stated that ascertaining whether such a stratum exists is the study’s objective and its main research question. To achieve this objective, the study proposes to avoid reductionist approaches as contrary to its task; instead, it opts for an emergence-based strategy to develop the required complexity for the Sôd’s foregrounding. First, however, the chapter introduces several notions allied with the study’s approach, which are deemed critical for grasping, through “defamiliarization,” the study’s highly idiosyncratic subject and its largely counterintuitive conceptualization frameworks. Among these are (1) the notion of delayed categorization (Reuven Tsur), which the study extends to what it calls “much-much delayed” or deferred categorization; (2) the recognition of the fundamental dichotomy between the author and the reader, crucial to the study’s approach and confirmed here via semiotics (Yoshihiko Ikegami) and, separately, linguistics (Stephen Neale); (3) the role of the presentational-representational distinction (Suzanne Langer, Benny Shanon, Harry Hunt); (4) introduction of a “metachronic” approach, one that is a step removed from the text as a meta-discourse and that can utilize either a diachronic, synchronic, or panchronic approach, all of them or none of them, in order to foreground the emergent meta-account of the concealed stratum; (5) the notion of dual-channel narration derived from cognitive psychology (Bernard Baars); and (6) the concept of a Pentateuchal “Universe of Discourse.” Next, the chapter discusses two critical conceptions: (1) the role of Israel’s God as the highest-scalar concept—and agent—conceivable, and (2) the question of “literature,” both vis-à-vis historical accounts and, in general, as a medium of human intellectual inquiry. Regarding the first, Sartre’s childhood experiences of higher-scalar (deity-attributable, in his case) affects on him are cited from his Words; these help set the stage for the import of what Paul Thibault defines as “the activity . . . guided and modulated along its trajectory by higher-scalar semiotic constraints.” Seen this way, “God” is not an abstraction; “It” is the highest-scalar “entity” capable of inducing awesome/awful mysterium tremendum experiences (Rudolf Otto) and of imposing dramatic sensory-hyletic and semiotic-discursive constraints. With regard to the second, Blanchot’s and Derrida’s notions of “radical interrogation,” through the medium of literature, are contrasted with the pervasive identification of literature with “fiction” that, as a result, and specifically with regard to historical accounts, often renders “literature” objectionable. It becomes possible to grasp such conceptualizations as Pierre Nora’s “sites of memory” and Jan Assmann’s “cultural memory” as part of what Ziony Zevit calls “poetics of history writing”; what is more, the study formulates an even more-encompassing conception of what it calls poetics of identity. Finally, Umberto Eco’s semiotic reenactment of the Garden of Eden story reveals a deep-seated semantic incongruity that the present study engages as a Hebraic koan of this Primal Scene of Instruction. Assurances of religions having interpretive claims on the meaning of the Edenic story notwithstanding, the Kafka character’s perpetual inability to get through the “Gate of the Law” can be seen as symptomatic, and symbolic, of the failure of countless investigators throughout the millennia to resolve the Edenic semantic incongruity—and to “break the code” of the Pentateuchal text as a whole. The introductory chapter closes with an account of the study’s overall approach as “meta-textual considerations bearing upon contextual data” and with chapter-by-chapter descriptions of the study’s progression, orienting the reader with regard to the material that follows.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Problem, Aporia, and Mysterium of MysticismMysticism and Meaning Multidisciplinary Perspectives,  2019What is it that often marks mysticism as such an objectionable topic and issue? The approach take... more What is it that often marks mysticism as such an objectionable topic and issue? The approach taken in the essay rests, initially, on a distinction between “problem” and “aporia” drawn by Derrida and applied specifically to the question of mysticism. There is, however, a more inexplicable core experienced in mystical phenomena, one that concepts such as aporia let alone “problem” are not able to account for. If problematizing altered states of consciousness, among them the various mysticisms, reduces them to logos-based rationalizations; and if positing aporias—by bringing into play intuition—also falls short of grasping the inscrutabilities encountered; then a widening of contextual ground from which one attempts to perceive these phenomena is called for. The mystics themselves, throughout millennia, have offered names for certain capabilities of the human mind that, as they typically claim, not only reach beyond instinct as well as reason and reasoning but also get past intuition (which is the highest Spinozist “knowledge level”). Invariably, to describe the achieved mind-states, they invoke such terms as “illumination,” “enlightenment,” “samadhi,” “satori,” “nirvana,” “beatitude” or “blessedness,” and so on. The essay proposes the Latin term, mysterium, for designating both the phenomenon of mystical alteration of consciousness and the manner which investigators must adopt when researching mysticism. As the essay argues, mysterium—and, at its most sublime, mysterium tremendum—is to aporia what aporia is to the problem, and thus is not associated with either the logoic “intellection” or intuition. If a problem is that which burdens our need to know and explain albeit not necessarily to understand; and if aporia is our concession to that which our rational understanding fails to fathom due to the inscrutability of a problem we may have encountered, then mysterium is that which must and can only be approached by way of a relevant firsthand experience—not by way of a mental deliberative (when seen as a problem) or contemplative (vis-à-vis aporia) effort. The inimitable cognitive-epistemic capabilities often accompanying the mysterium—to distinguish from instinct, imagination, intellect, and/or intuition their nature, praxes that they entail, and the attendant, attainable mental states—the essay designates as illumination.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
God of Moses versus the “One and All” of Egypt: From Magic of Hypostatized Spirituality (Egypt) to Discriminating Paradigm of Non-Idolatry (Israel)Mysticism and Meaning: Multidisciplinary Perspectives,  2019The essay evaluates the significance and import of such otherwise loaded terms as “magic” and “id... more The essay evaluates the significance and import of such otherwise loaded terms as “magic” and “idolatry.” It offers an examination of respective uses of language in ancient Egypt and Israel (pictorial hieroglyphs versus alphabet-based); juxtaposition of deified human rulers and hypostasized spiritual entities against exclusive worship of a single, ineffable, and highest-scalar God; and notions such as cosmotheism (“one-nature”-based polytheism or “one-nature”-based monotheism) versus monotheism of a “beyond-nature” sole deity; and assesses the distinction between “I am all that is” and “I am who I am.” Both religions are seen as assuming positions along a selfsame mystical-transformational axis but at the axis’s opposite ends. The extreme polarity between Egypt’s and Israel’s key religious stances is then noted semiotically: if Egypt’s sensibility is iconic and symbolic pointing to strategies of ritualized imbuing of objects and ideas as symbols with supernatural significance, the Pentateuch’s esoteric “second channel” (posited by the author) is allegorical and indexical pointing to direct, experiential knowledge of “God.” The God of Israel represents an unprecedented third kind of linguistic transitivity—neither external nor internal intrinsically but one that is simultaneously external and internal vis-à-vis human subjectivity—altering humanity’s “semantic organization of experience” (Halliday). In a radical departure from the realm of the imaginary, the symbolic, and the fantastic—the realm of “images,” that is, symbols, archetypes, and psychic powers whose potency, however, was not in dispute—Israel’s novel religion insisted that consciousness such as that of Egypt entailed divinization of that which is not divine, or God, thus amounting to idolatry and magic. The essay in effect offers qualitative, value-weighted assessment of vital dissimilarities between two distinct, ancient traditions, both of which evidenced significant mystical alterations of consciousness.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Externalizing Israel’s Ineffable: Complex Tropological Entextualization Strategies for the Pentateuchal NuminousMystical ineffability has been contrasted with “epistemic boundedness,” the former due to the ine... more Mystical ineffability has been contrasted with “epistemic boundedness,” the former due to the inexpressibility of some experiences, the latter seen as being tied to the limitations of human thinking. In the case of ancient Israelite religion—the focus of the essay—in spite of featuring God in the Pentateuch as both a prominent literary character and the highest-scalar conceivable agent, as well as representing a unique third transitive force, it was traditionally seen as devoid of either mysticism or philosophy. Thus the question of Israel’s ineffability may seem, likewise, to be a nonissue. Yet, as this essay endeavors to foreground, nothing could be further from the actual state of affairs. As the essay illustrates, a mystical stratum has been embedded in the Pentateuch as a “second-channel” narrative, via systemic and systematic use of advanced literary means, principally figuration. Addressing, first, the question of the seeming absence of this generally invisible esoteric figuration and corresponding evidence of mysticism in the Pentateuch, the essay proceeds to portray and analyze the most prominent, specific figurative-communicative devices used by this text that usually remain outside the conscious awareness of typical readers. There is hardly a single “load-bearing” element in the literary armature of the Pentateuchal text’s mimetic sections—the J and E strands seen here as priestly esoteric matter par excellence, while traditional priestly sections as their exoteric material—that does not originate via a stunning and wholly unanticipated tropological scheme: (1) narratives (plot) as a series of states of consciousness in conflict; (2) characters and locations as a series of asymmetric noetic parallelisms (a notion proposed by the author); (3) space (places) as a series of scenes of numinous experiences; and (4) time as a series of expansions of the initiate’s self-consciousness. In the final section, the essay describes what arguably is the single most remarkable feature of the Pentateuchal text: the presence in it of multiple types of metalepsis, including in its classical-rhetorical sense and its narrative variety; the latter appears as the two narrative channels sometimes collide and periodically warp the narrative integrity of one or the other channel.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Beyond the Mainland of Logos: Mind’s far-flung Islands of Suprarational Intuition and Hyperconscious IlluminationSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Cogito Interruptus, Logos Dishonored: Critique of “Committed” ReasonSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pentateuch’s Garden of Semiosis: Ancient Israel’s Good-Evil Altercation of Ruptured Doxa, Philosophical Epistêmê, and Divine 'Megaphors'Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
InterviewsIsrael’s Mysterium Tremendum & the Sôd Hypothesis: Video Interview of A.S. Kohav by Ori Z. Soltes (Day 1)To watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bt9i_mXmYPI&t=2499s 

The int... more To watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bt9i_mXmYPI&t=2499s  The interview was conducted in June 2018, on two separate days. The present video is Part One/Day 1. The interviewer, Ori Z. Soltes, PhD, teaches at Georgetown University across a range of disciplines, from theology and art history to philosophy and political history. Dr. Soltes is the former director and curator of the B’nai B’rith Klutznick National Jewish Museum, Washington, DC, where he curated over eighty exhibitions. Soltes has authored scores of books, articles, exhibition catalogs, and essays on diverse topics.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Day 2: Israel’s Mysterium Tremendum & the Sôd Hypothesis: Video Interview of A.S. Kohav by Ori Z. SoltesTo watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZwNn5o4Y-nA&t=4624s

The inte... more To watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZwNn5o4Y-nA&t=4624s  The interview was conducted in June 2018, on two separate days. The present video is Part Two/Day 2. The interviewer, Ori Z. Soltes, PhD, teaches at Georgetown University across a range of disciplines, from theology and art history to philosophy and political history. Dr. Soltes is the former director and curator of the B’nai B’rith Klutznick National Jewish Museum, Washington, DC, where he curated over eighty exhibitions. Soltes has authored scores of books, articles, exhibition catalogs, and essays on diverse topics.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Radio Interview of Dr. Kohav (Radio Show #341 - 26OCT19)"The Mystical Positivist" Radio Show,  2019https://mysticalpositivist.blogspot.com/2019/10/the-mystical-positivist-radio-show-341.html

Th... more https://mysticalpositivist.blogspot.com/2019/10/the-mystical-positivist-radio-show-341.html  The Mystical Positivist is a weekly radio show on KOWS-LP FM 107.3 Occidental, CA, and on the web at KOWS-LP Live Feed, Saturdays from 4 - 6pm PST.  This week on The Mystical Positivist, we present a conversation pre-recorded on October 20th, 2019 with Alex S. Kohav PhD. Alex Kohav is the editor of and contributor to the recently published Mysticism and Meaning: Multidisciplinary Perspectives.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
BlogsPlato and/in America: Distrust of Democracy, or Why Chase Poets out of the RepublicSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
PRIESTLY INITIATION IN ANCIENT ISRAEL---ASOR Blog: The Sôd Hypothesis as the Missing Link between Israel’s Earliest Civilization and Cultic Praxis and Mysterium Tremendum of Its DeitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis (full pre-publication text)Routledge,  2023THIS IS THE PRE-PUBLICATION TEXT

IT DOES NOT CONTAIN EXHIBITS, FIGURES, OR TABLES (THESE CAN B... more THIS IS THE PRE-PUBLICATION TEXT IT DOES NOT CONTAIN EXHIBITS, FIGURES, OR TABLES (THESE CAN BE FOUND IN THE SECTION "ADDENDA FOR 'EARLY ISRAEL' BOOK") KINDLY QUOTE FROM THE PUBLISHED VERSION AbstractEarly Israel offers the most sweeping reinterpretation of the Pentateuch since the nineteenth-century Documentary Hypothesis. Engaging a dozen-plus modern academic disciplines—from anthropology, biblical studies, Egyptology, and semiotics, to linguistics, cognitive poetics, and consciousness studies; from religious studies, Jewish studies, psychoanalysis and literary criticism, to mysticism studies, cognitive psychology, phenomenology and philosophy of mind—it wrests from the Pentateuch an outline of the heretofore undiscovered ancient Israelite mystical-initiatory tradition of the First Temple priests. The book effectively launches a new research area: Pentateuchal esoteric mysticism, akin to a “center” or “organizing principle” discussed in biblical theology. The recovered priestly system is discordant vis-à-vis the much-later rabbinical project. This volume appeals to a diverse academic community, from Biblical and Jewish studies to literary studies, religious studies, anthropology, and consciousness studies.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
"Author Flyer" (Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis, Routledge, 2023)THIS IS THE PUBLISHER'S DESCRIPTIVE FLYER, WITH A PRICE DISCOUNT AND REVIEW COPY REQUESTS

"[Ea... more THIS IS THE PUBLISHER'S DESCRIPTIVE FLYER, WITH A PRICE DISCOUNT AND REVIEW COPY REQUESTS "[Early Israel] is a bold, panoptic book that draws from many fields of knowledge, ancient and modern, in order to offer a startling esoteric understanding of Torah, one that leads us to seek a recovery of Eden, not as a place, but as a state of mind. In its sheer reach and in its fascinating corridors, Alex Kohav's book has the potential to change everyone who reads it."- Kevin Hart, University of Virginia "Kohav's revisiting of the ancient text shows that deeply ineffable, but profoundly transformative experiences of divinity are accessible through the Sôd channel of the Hebrew scriptures."- Laura E. Weed, The College of Saint Rose "Kohav's book is a magnum opus in the fullest sense of this term."- Elana Gomel, Tel-Aviv University "Kohav's magisterial volume envelopes the reader with a breathtaking array of disciplines: diverse intellectual and spiritual shovels are put at our disposal with which to dig deeply beneath the biblical text. The intense process of digging is one of being led along a path through a wilderness that is at once a dense forest and a clear-aired desert. The path is toward an unexpected garden of unearthly delights whose myriad blossoms grow from roots that are Hebrew and Greek; ancient and contemporary; Socratic and Husserlian―and are compelling in their strange beauty."- Ori Z. Soltes, Georgetown UniversitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Mysticism and Experience: Twenty-First-Century Approaches, edited by Alex S. Kohav (Lexington Books, 2020)"Unutterable Experiences of Consciousness Alteration" (Introduction, pp. 1-15) ,  2020

Any person interested in mysticism will find this book of great value. Although writing about... more Any person interested in mysticism will find this book of great value. Although writing about mystical experiences can be likened to “sending a kiss by mail,” there is much to be learned from the essays here. The book covers topics ranging from the anthropology of Mongolian shamanism to psychedelic drugs, symbolic aspects of mystical experiences and attempts to communicate such experiences, attempts to scientifically explain mystical states, and questions of the very possibility of such explanations. Important and provocative questions are raised: What sort of experiences count as “mystical?” Of the variety of such experiences, how can they be explained? Are there only physiological and psychological grounds or is there a transcendent reality that is contacted during mystical experiences? If a transcendent reality, how is it that it appears different to different people? How can such experiences be described if they are ineffable? And, what difference might there be between a mystical experience and the ordinary experience of our everyday world?         -- Burton Voorhees, Athabasca University This book is a vast, profound, and modern approach to mysticism. The high-level researchers and authors participating in the book come from philosophy, spiritual studies, cognitive sciences, art studies, psychiatry, and literature, bringing authentic and meaningful interdisciplinary approach to the subject.          -- Louis Hébert, University of Quebec at Rimouski  "Mysticism and Experience: Twenty-First-Century Approaches" embarks on an investigation of the concept of mysticism from the standpoint of academic fields, including philosophy, anthropology, religious studies, mysticism studies, literary studies, art criticism, cognitive poetics, cognitive science, psychology, medical research, and even mathematics. Scholars across disciplines observe that, although it has experienced both cyclical approval and disapproval, mysticism seems to be implicated as a key foundation of religion, along with comprising the highest forms of social, cultural, intellectual, and artistic creations. This book is divided into four sections: The Exposure, The Symbolic, The Cognitive, and The Scientific, covering the fundamental aspects of the phenomenon known as mysticism. Contributors, taking advantage of recent advances in disciplinary approaches to understanding mystical phenomena, address the question of whether progress can be made to systemically enrich, expand, and advance our understanding of mysticism. The "Introduction: Unutterable Experiences of Consciousness Alteration" is by the volume's editor, Alex S. Kohav.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Mysticism and Meaning: Multidisciplinary Perspectives, edited by Alex S. Kohavby Alex Shalom Kohav, harry hunt, Burt Voorhees, Gregory M Nixon, and Louis HébertThree Pines Press,  2019 A collection of essays that explores the many dimensions of the mystical, including personal, th... more A collection of essays that explores the many dimensions of the mystical, including personal, theoretical, and historical. Kohav, a professor of philosophy at the Metropolitan State College of Denver and the editor of this collection, provocatively asks why mysticism is such an "objectionable" topic and considered intellectually disreputable. Borrowing from Jacques Derrida's distinction between aporia (or unsolvable confusion) and a solvable problem, the author suggests mystical phenomena are better understood through the lens of mysterium, that which is beyond the categories of reason and can only be captured by dint of intuition and personal experience. In fact, the contributors to this intellectually kaleidoscopic volume present several autobiographical accounts of precisely such an encounter with the mystically inscrutable. For example, in one essay, Gregory M. Nixon relates "the shattering moment in my life when I awoke from the dream of self to find being as part of the living world and not in my head." The religious dimensions of mystical experience are also explored: Buddhist, Christian, and Judaic texts, including the Bible, are examined to explicate and compare their divergent interpretations. Contributor Jacob Rump argues that the ineffable is central to Wittgenstein's worldview, and Ori Z. Soltes contends that philosophers like Socrates and Spinoza, famous for their valorization of reason, are incomprehensible without also considering the limits they impose on reason and the value they assign to ineffable experience. The collection is precisely as multidisciplinary as billed. It includes a wealth of varying perspectives, both personal and scholarly. Furthermore, the book examines the application of these ideas to contemporary debates. Richard H. Jones, for instance, challenges that mysticism and science ultimately converge into a single explanatory whole. The prose can be prohibitively dense--much of it is written in a jargon-laden academic parlance--and the book is not intended for a popular audience. Within a remarkably technical discussion of the proper interpretive approach to sacred texts, contributor Brian Lancaster declares: "For these reasons I propose incorporating a hermeneutic component to extend the integration of neuroscientific and phenomenological data that defines neurophenomenology." However, Kohav's anthology is still a stimulating tour of the subject, philosophically enthralling and wide reaching. An engrossing, diverse collection of takes on mystical phenomena.                                                                                                                                 - Kirkus Reviews  The volume investigates the question of meaning of mystical phenomena and, conversely, queries the concept of “meaning” itself, via insights afforded by mystical experiences. The collection brings together researchers from such disparate fields as philosophy, psychology, history of religion, cognitive poetics, and semiotics, in an effort to ascertain the question of mysticism’s meaning through pertinent, up-to-date multidisciplinarity. The discussion commences with Editor’s Introduction that probes persistent questions of complexity as well as perplexity of mysticism and the reasons why problematizing mysticism leads to even greater enigmas. One thread within the volume provides the contextual framework for continuing fascination of mysticism that includes a consideration of several historical traditions as well as personal accounts of mystical experiences: Two contributions showcase ancient Egyptian and ancient Israelite involvements with mystical alterations of consciousness and Christianity’s origins being steeped in mystical praxis; and four essays highlight mysticism’s formative presence in Chinese traditions and Tibetan Buddhism as well as medieval Judaism and Kabbalah mysticism. A second, more overarching strand within the volume is concerned with multidisciplinary investigations of the phenomenon of mysticism, including philosophical, psychological, cognitive, and semiotic analyses. To this effect, the volume explores the question of philosophy’s relation to mysticism and vice versa, together with a Wittgensteinian nexus between mysticism, facticity, and truth; language mysticism and “supernormal meaning” engendered by certain mystical states; and a semiotic scrutiny of some mystical experiences and their ineffability. Finally, the volume includes an assessment of the so-called New Age authors’ contention of the convergence of scientific and mystical claims about reality. The above two tracks are appended with personal, contemporary accounts of mystical experiences, in the Prologue; and a futuristic envisioning, as a fictitious chronicle from the time-to-come, of life without things mystical, in the Postscript. The volume contains thirteen chapters; its international contributors are based in Canada, United Kingdom, and the United States.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
THE SÔD HYPOTHESIS 
Phenomenological, Semiotic, Cognitive, and Noetic-Literary Recovery of the Pentateuch’s Embedded Inner-Core Mystical Initiation Tradition of Ancient Israelite Cultic Religion “Kohav's book is a highly original and widely erudite derivation of a numinous-mystical core, ba... more “Kohav's book is a highly original and widely erudite derivation of a numinous-mystical core, based on inferred early initiation and esoteric practices, as the experiential and esoteric source of the early Judaism of the Pentateuch. [Applying] his extensive knowledge of  critical-interpretive methodologies, Kohav…demonstrate[s] the plausibility of this numinous-mystical core in early Judaism, where it has been generally assumed to be absent.”- Harry T. Hunt, Brock University, author of ‘On the Nature of Consciousness’ (Yale, 1995) and ‘Lives in Spirit’ (SUNY, 2003) “Th[e] central question to be solved by the ‘Sôd hypothesis’ is of great intellectual interest....[Kohav] demonstrate[s] the validity of his hypothesis in an objective way....[H]e explains WHY the ‘literal’ interpretation of the problematic key passages fails, and HOW…this shifts the reader’s interpretation strategy from a literal context to the search for another less literal one, given that we search for meaning when reading.”- Anna St. Leger Lucas [Whiteside], McMaster University, co-editor of ‘On Referring in Literature’ (Indiana University, 1987) “I am unaware of scholars who actually deal with the question of esoteric knowledge and secret interpretations of biblical texts during Iron Age II, ca. 920-586 BCE….Biblicists of my ken assume that even though not everybody knew everything, knowledge was open.…Kohav is aware that scholars are unaware that a problem exists, that something interesting exists in the [Pentateuchal] text that has not yet been queried.…Everything…has been filtered and fined through his sophisticated approach. Kohav reads, synthesizes, and develops complicated arguments logically to a conclusion, drawing together data and ideas from disparate sources and disciplines….In the end, Kohav owns all of his arguments.”- Ziony Zevit, American Jewish University, author of ‘The Religions of Ancient Israel’ (Continuum, 2001) "I have finished [reading Kohav’s] 'Sod [Hypothesis].' I like it very much...- because of [its] original hypothesis (good argumentation!)- because of the way [the author] harmonized a spiritual path and an academic path- and also because of [its] well worded attacks against the dumb flock of post-modernists ;-)"- Pierre Lévy, University of Ottawa, author of 'The Semantic Sphere 1' (Wiley-ISTE, 2011) and 'Collective Intelligence' (Basic Books, 1994) Apropos of Kohav’s earlier work: “A preposterously beautiful work of Jewish mystery wisdom, rendered in a language akin to the poetic and heart-stirring vernacular of the ancient and early-medieval Kabbalists, cryptic yet accessible, deep yet reachable. The theories and concepts put forth in Dr. Kohav's rendition and interpretation of this precious body of esoteric wisdom are totally refreshing as well as loyal to what kabbalah is all about. Other than my own books, this is the first contemporary work on the Kabbalah by someone else that I will feel comfortable in recommending.” - R. Gershon Winkler, author of ‘The Way of the Boundary Crosser’ (Aronson, 1998) and ‘Magic of the Ordinary: Recovering the Shamanic in Judaism’ (North Atlantic Books, 2003)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
ORI Z. SOLTES Ontogeny of Light: Apples, Suns, Mirrors, Electricities—Limitless Light, Oscillating Silences, Immersive Realms/The Art of Alex Shalom KohavCanal Street Studios,  2020"Traversing across the medieval traditions of the Carpathian Mountains to the digital networks of... more "Traversing across the medieval traditions of the Carpathian Mountains to the digital networks of contemporary America, Alex Shalom Kohav’s odyssey emerges as a wandering Jewish idol smasher. Professor Ori Soltes illuminates the pathways for appreciating Kohav’s cerebral visuality and mystifying numinosity. Replicating Kohav’s six-sided constructions, Soltes offers readers a mindboggling overview of contemporary art existing within its own multi-dimensional cryptography. With the talmudic insights of Maimonides and critical sophistication of Harold Rosenberg, Soltes gently escorts us en pointe across the millennia of time and space on a tight-rope drawn by Kohav. We are indeed fortunate to have Soltes’ penetrating unraveling of Kohav’s artistic “search for truth.” For art lovers and spiritual searchers in the 21st century, prepare to understand how this Jewish avatar’s ineffable iconography is translated into meaningful exegesis."–  Philip Eliasoph, Professor of Art History and Visual Culture, Fairfield University; Arts & Visual Culture blogger for The New York Times InEducation.com  "Artistic revolutions seldom happen in a vacuum....Is revolution in the air again?...According to a poster-sized statement that [the Boulder artist] Kohav worked up for the show [at the Boulder Public Library and the National Center for Atmospheric Research, also in Boulder]—the “VWHAM!99/00: Very Wired ‘Hot’ Art Manifesto”—traditional ways of producing art can be characterized as “windows” designed by artists to represent reality.... [Kohav’s] technologically inspired idea of “monitors” leads to the concept of “doors,” which will allow a “grown-up humanity” to directly observe and interact with reality....“What I am saying is we should no longer look at anything presented through (the window).” So, you may wonder, how do we go about doing that? If the works that went up at NCAR on Nov. 19 (“O!Zone Monitor” and Oxygen Monitor”) are any indication, Kohav means to spark the aesthetic for the next century with crude wooden and electronic constructions that serve as vehicles for intriguing arrays of quickly flashing lights of all sizes and shapes....Set up just beyond the entrance to NCAR amid bulky, utilitarian scientific displays, Kohav’s monitors look a little out of place, explosions of color and movement against the grayish backdrop of scientific investigation....The lights blink according to patterns that Kohav borrowed from “brain machines,” those funny headsets that popped up a few years ago to help people relax and expand their thinking processes. With a little patience, the monitors can induce a rather pleasant trance state, not unlike watching a fire or running water. It’s an interesting mix of using technology for specifically artistic ends, and one that Kohav ...believes has a spiritual component as well."  –  J. Gluckstern, “The Visual Revolution will be Monitored,” Visual Arts Critic, Boulder Daily Camera’s “Friday Magazine," December 3, 1999    "In a sensitive and erudite analysis, Soltes skillfully blends psychology and aesthetics to creatively capture the exhaustive arc of Kohav’s artistic intentions. Ranging from science to poetry, painting to Kabbalah, installations to postmodern philosophy, Soltes nails the many essences of this multifaceted creative hurricane. Truly an epic monograph!" –  Richard McBee, Artist and Critic  "Playful, ironic and brave, the work of Alex Kohav represents a unique spirit simply not found in contemporary American Art. His is a European sensibility addressing art, science and religion with equal zeal, laying bare all three traditions. His career began with an almost Romantic aesthetic, to now one of expanded authorship where audiences participate in the creative process. His entire oeuvre questions the inflated and self-important nature of our culture, while asserting a radical other urgently needing to be communicated." –  Joel Silverstein, Artist, Curator, Critic, Exec. Committee Member – Jewish Art Salon, New York   "In this 'serious joyride in art, religion and spirituality,' Ori Z. Soltes provides brilliant insights as he charts Alexander Kohav’s moves from painting canvasses to creating environments into which the viewer is invited to become an active participant in order for the work to be completed. Kohav the creator is both artist and philosopher. His shift away from the ‘representational’ nature of even abstract painting, to direct presentation, brings up the question of what art is, and what its role is in human history. This book touches on many exciting issues, and is a great source for both the lay person and those well-versed in contemporary art." –  Yona Verwer, Artist and Director of the Jewish Art Salon, New York "Soltes considers the career of visual artist Alex Shalom Kohav in this work of art criticism. Born in 1948 in 'the medieval Carpathian Mountains town' that’s now known as Mukachevo—it was part of the Soviet Union then, though it was historically located in Hungary and is now in Ukraine—Kohav moved to San Francisco in 1976 and quickly joined the city’s art and poetry scene. In his subsequent career as a visual artist he has lived and worked in many places, and his own movement between figurative and abstract painting and installation art has mirrored this migratory tendency. His passions and influences have included New Age spiritualism and the vast scope of Chinese, Egyptian, and Western art. 'The combination of his interests and talents suggests that he is a difficult individual to define,' writes Soltes in his introduction, '…yet there is an organic consistency to the phylogeny of his work into which all of the various ontogenic parts can be seen to assume their interconnected places.' In this survey of Kohav’s oeuvre, Soltes analyzes the trends that carried through the different eras of the artist’s work as well as the individual projects that occupied him in particular periods. The text is accompanied by numerous full-color photographs of the relevant pieces and, in the case of installations, diagrams. Soltes, also the author of Then and Now (2019), writes for an academic audience, and his prose reflects the fact: 'Moreover, the emphasis on light as an instrument in this process of consciousness-elevation is consistent with the overall phylogeny of his art, from his paintings to his monitors to his observational and participatory installations; and it is consistent with his ever-expanding exploration of mysticism, particularly kabbalah.' Soltes succeeds in elucidating a great many of Kohav’s pieces, and it is sometimes stimulating to be walked through his interpretations of them, particularly the installations. . . . Kohav is not currently regarded as a major artist, but if that fact changes—perhaps even because of this work—Soltes’ thoughts on it will surely be of value to future art scholars. A dense, esoteric tome on a dense, esoteric artist."  –  Kirkus Reviews  Ontogeny of Light is the first full-scale and close-up look at Kohav’s lifelong journey as an artist. It analyzes and assesses the complex, often exceptional turns that the artist’s work takes in synthesizing an extraordinary range of ideas and in constructing a series of fascinating worlds into which the viewer—who is, increasingly, the participant—steps to think and feel along the path of transformation.  The book contains over 100 photographic images; a proposal by Ori Z. Soltes for the Kohav Museum of Kabbalistic Art (KMoKA); and the “Artist’s Afterword” presenting an intellectual and spiritual autobiographical sketch that offers an idiosyncratic view of the artist’s life and his mind. Kohav envisions a Museum of Limitless Light (MoLL) in Israel and a “(W)Rap-SoDa-in-Blue” Museum of Participatory Art—or (W)RapMoPA—in America, both based on his art.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
'Tis Twenty Twenty-Three—and Techno-Fascist Singularity Is HereInterrogating AI: The Promise, the Problems, the Future (Cognitive, Engineering, Psychological, Philosophical, Consciousness, and Science-Fictional Perspectives), edited by Alex S. Kohav and Julia Kohav,  2024Few would argue against the assertion that today we have become a technological society. This ess... more Few would argue against the assertion that today we have become a technological society. This essay endeavors to unpack the meaning and some of the consequences of this observable fact. First, the traditional division of the human self into an inner domain and an outer persona is now more and more heavily weighted toward the latter. The mind’s very interiority and subjectivity—privacy—is now being breached daily, routinely, and effortlessly by AI-enabled devices, amounting to a tyrannical manipulation of broad populations. The techno-fascist singularity has arrived. Second, the “posthuman” cyborgs are being applauded as the coming “overhuman” by some, who echo the early fascists and futurists, such as Marinetti, who celebrated the “beauty of speed” and machinery’s superiority to human capabilities. Third, technology’s emphasis on purposefulness and functionality, with their resultant “skewed sample of the events of the total mind” (Bateson), distorts our grasp of reality. The schema outlined by Rousseau and elaborated by Derrida—stretching from gods (or kings) to beasts or cattle, with human beings somewhere in the middle—is now tasked with accommodating AI-powered robots, too. Are robots going to be more like cattle or, perhaps, akin to gods? That robots can’t be human, the chapter argues, can be surmised from that which is impossible for AI-driven robots to attain: consciousness. The chapter further explores the intimate connection between AI and both psychology and cognitive science, identifying cognition as the foundation underlying the notion of intelligence in all three of these domains. Yet such an intelligence, being devoid of consciousness and relying on algorithms to achieve superior cognition, information processing speeds, and virtually unlimited working memory, cannot possibly engage in real thinking predicated on something other than algorithms or swift decisiveness. Since the overarching aims of cognition and AI alike are achievements of specific goals—among them survival and the thriving of the agent doing the cognizing—the relegating of humans to the status of cattle seems inevitable.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Introduction: Unutterable Experiences of Consciousness AlterationMysticism and Experience: Twenty-First-Century Approaches, edited by A.S. Kohav ,  2020The literature on mysticism, mystical phenomena, attempts at their classification and theorizing ... more The literature on mysticism, mystical phenomena, attempts at their classification and theorizing apropos of mystical phenomena’s explanatory causes, nature, meaning, and import is enormous. And yet, confusions and contradictions persist on multiple levels: from basic definitions and classifications to methodological and experiential approaches, to generated insights and conclusions that are themselves frequently examples of misapprehension and incoherence. Approaches will also understandably depend on, and be subject to, preconceived ideas and definitions of key terms; the latter can significantly, and sometimes fatally, undermine any ostensibly objective investigation. Yet another self-imposed and decisive handicap is the very methodology known as the “scientific method.” What is experience? Does reality have “the character of our experience”? To begin grasping mystical experiences requires the following basic realization: such experiences alter or entail alteration of the experiencer’s consciousness.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION TO "The Sôd Hypothesis: Phenomenological, Semiotic, Cognitive, and Noetic- Literary Recovery of the Pentateuch's Embedded Inner-Core Mystical Initiation Tradition of Ancient Israelite Cultic Religion"INTRODUCTION ABSTRACT The introductory chapter commences with a presentation of the notion of the... more INTRODUCTION ABSTRACT The introductory chapter commences with a presentation of the notion of the Sôd, or concealed esoteric stratum within the Pentateuch, including its limited, obscure usage in the rabbinical milieu. At the outset, it is stated that ascertaining whether such a stratum exists is the study’s objective and its main research question. To achieve this objective, the study proposes to avoid reductionist approaches as contrary to its task; instead, it opts for an emergence-based strategy to develop the required complexity for the Sôd’s foregrounding. First, however, the chapter introduces several notions allied with the study’s approach, which are deemed critical for grasping, through “defamiliarization,” the study’s highly idiosyncratic subject and its largely counterintuitive conceptualization frameworks. Among these are (1) the notion of delayed categorization (Reuven Tsur), which the study extends to what it calls “much-much delayed” or deferred categorization; (2) the recognition of the fundamental dichotomy between the author and the reader, crucial to the study’s approach and confirmed here via semiotics (Yoshihiko Ikegami) and, separately, linguistics (Stephen Neale); (3) the role of the presentational-representational distinction (Suzanne Langer, Benny Shanon, Harry Hunt); (4) introduction of a “metachronic” approach, one that is a step removed from the text as a meta-discourse and that can utilize either a diachronic, synchronic, or panchronic approach, all of them or none of them, in order to foreground the emergent meta-account of the concealed stratum; (5) the notion of dual-channel narration derived from cognitive psychology (Bernard Baars); and (6) the concept of a Pentateuchal “Universe of Discourse.” Next, the chapter discusses two critical conceptions: (1) the role of Israel’s God as the highest-scalar concept—and agent—conceivable, and (2) the question of “literature,” both vis-à-vis historical accounts and, in general, as a medium of human intellectual inquiry. Regarding the first, Sartre’s childhood experiences of higher-scalar (deity-attributable, in his case) affects on him are cited from his Words; these help set the stage for the import of what Paul Thibault defines as “the activity . . . guided and modulated along its trajectory by higher-scalar semiotic constraints.” Seen this way, “God” is not an abstraction; “It” is the highest-scalar “entity” capable of inducing awesome/awful mysterium tremendum experiences (Rudolf Otto) and of imposing dramatic sensory-hyletic and semiotic-discursive constraints. With regard to the second, Blanchot’s and Derrida’s notions of “radical interrogation,” through the medium of literature, are contrasted with the pervasive identification of literature with “fiction” that, as a result, and specifically with regard to historical accounts, often renders “literature” objectionable. It becomes possible to grasp such conceptualizations as Pierre Nora’s “sites of memory” and Jan Assmann’s “cultural memory” as part of what Ziony Zevit calls “poetics of history writing”; what is more, the study formulates an even more-encompassing conception of what it calls poetics of identity. Finally, Umberto Eco’s semiotic reenactment of the Garden of Eden story reveals a deep-seated semantic incongruity that the present study engages as a Hebraic koan of this Primal Scene of Instruction. Assurances of religions having interpretive claims on the meaning of the Edenic story notwithstanding, the Kafka character’s perpetual inability to get through the “Gate of the Law” can be seen as symptomatic, and symbolic, of the failure of countless investigators throughout the millennia to resolve the Edenic semantic incongruity—and to “break the code” of the Pentateuchal text as a whole. The introductory chapter closes with an account of the study’s overall approach as “meta-textual considerations bearing upon contextual data” and with chapter-by-chapter descriptions of the study’s progression, orienting the reader with regard to the material that follows.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Problem, Aporia, and Mysterium of MysticismMysticism and Meaning Multidisciplinary Perspectives,  2019What is it that often marks mysticism as such an objectionable topic and issue? The approach take... more What is it that often marks mysticism as such an objectionable topic and issue? The approach taken in the essay rests, initially, on a distinction between “problem” and “aporia” drawn by Derrida and applied specifically to the question of mysticism. There is, however, a more inexplicable core experienced in mystical phenomena, one that concepts such as aporia let alone “problem” are not able to account for. If problematizing altered states of consciousness, among them the various mysticisms, reduces them to logos-based rationalizations; and if positing aporias—by bringing into play intuition—also falls short of grasping the inscrutabilities encountered; then a widening of contextual ground from which one attempts to perceive these phenomena is called for. The mystics themselves, throughout millennia, have offered names for certain capabilities of the human mind that, as they typically claim, not only reach beyond instinct as well as reason and reasoning but also get past intuition (which is the highest Spinozist “knowledge level”). Invariably, to describe the achieved mind-states, they invoke such terms as “illumination,” “enlightenment,” “samadhi,” “satori,” “nirvana,” “beatitude” or “blessedness,” and so on. The essay proposes the Latin term, mysterium, for designating both the phenomenon of mystical alteration of consciousness and the manner which investigators must adopt when researching mysticism. As the essay argues, mysterium—and, at its most sublime, mysterium tremendum—is to aporia what aporia is to the problem, and thus is not associated with either the logoic “intellection” or intuition. If a problem is that which burdens our need to know and explain albeit not necessarily to understand; and if aporia is our concession to that which our rational understanding fails to fathom due to the inscrutability of a problem we may have encountered, then mysterium is that which must and can only be approached by way of a relevant firsthand experience—not by way of a mental deliberative (when seen as a problem) or contemplative (vis-à-vis aporia) effort. The inimitable cognitive-epistemic capabilities often accompanying the mysterium—to distinguish from instinct, imagination, intellect, and/or intuition their nature, praxes that they entail, and the attendant, attainable mental states—the essay designates as illumination.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
God of Moses versus the “One and All” of Egypt: From Magic of Hypostatized Spirituality (Egypt) to Discriminating Paradigm of Non-Idolatry (Israel)Mysticism and Meaning: Multidisciplinary Perspectives,  2019The essay evaluates the significance and import of such otherwise loaded terms as “magic” and “id... more The essay evaluates the significance and import of such otherwise loaded terms as “magic” and “idolatry.” It offers an examination of respective uses of language in ancient Egypt and Israel (pictorial hieroglyphs versus alphabet-based); juxtaposition of deified human rulers and hypostasized spiritual entities against exclusive worship of a single, ineffable, and highest-scalar God; and notions such as cosmotheism (“one-nature”-based polytheism or “one-nature”-based monotheism) versus monotheism of a “beyond-nature” sole deity; and assesses the distinction between “I am all that is” and “I am who I am.” Both religions are seen as assuming positions along a selfsame mystical-transformational axis but at the axis’s opposite ends. The extreme polarity between Egypt’s and Israel’s key religious stances is then noted semiotically: if Egypt’s sensibility is iconic and symbolic pointing to strategies of ritualized imbuing of objects and ideas as symbols with supernatural significance, the Pentateuch’s esoteric “second channel” (posited by the author) is allegorical and indexical pointing to direct, experiential knowledge of “God.” The God of Israel represents an unprecedented third kind of linguistic transitivity—neither external nor internal intrinsically but one that is simultaneously external and internal vis-à-vis human subjectivity—altering humanity’s “semantic organization of experience” (Halliday). In a radical departure from the realm of the imaginary, the symbolic, and the fantastic—the realm of “images,” that is, symbols, archetypes, and psychic powers whose potency, however, was not in dispute—Israel’s novel religion insisted that consciousness such as that of Egypt entailed divinization of that which is not divine, or God, thus amounting to idolatry and magic. The essay in effect offers qualitative, value-weighted assessment of vital dissimilarities between two distinct, ancient traditions, both of which evidenced significant mystical alterations of consciousness.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Externalizing Israel’s Ineffable: Complex Tropological Entextualization Strategies for the Pentateuchal NuminousMystical ineffability has been contrasted with “epistemic boundedness,” the former due to the ine... more Mystical ineffability has been contrasted with “epistemic boundedness,” the former due to the inexpressibility of some experiences, the latter seen as being tied to the limitations of human thinking. In the case of ancient Israelite religion—the focus of the essay—in spite of featuring God in the Pentateuch as both a prominent literary character and the highest-scalar conceivable agent, as well as representing a unique third transitive force, it was traditionally seen as devoid of either mysticism or philosophy. Thus the question of Israel’s ineffability may seem, likewise, to be a nonissue. Yet, as this essay endeavors to foreground, nothing could be further from the actual state of affairs. As the essay illustrates, a mystical stratum has been embedded in the Pentateuch as a “second-channel” narrative, via systemic and systematic use of advanced literary means, principally figuration. Addressing, first, the question of the seeming absence of this generally invisible esoteric figuration and corresponding evidence of mysticism in the Pentateuch, the essay proceeds to portray and analyze the most prominent, specific figurative-communicative devices used by this text that usually remain outside the conscious awareness of typical readers. There is hardly a single “load-bearing” element in the literary armature of the Pentateuchal text’s mimetic sections—the J and E strands seen here as priestly esoteric matter par excellence, while traditional priestly sections as their exoteric material—that does not originate via a stunning and wholly unanticipated tropological scheme: (1) narratives (plot) as a series of states of consciousness in conflict; (2) characters and locations as a series of asymmetric noetic parallelisms (a notion proposed by the author); (3) space (places) as a series of scenes of numinous experiences; and (4) time as a series of expansions of the initiate’s self-consciousness. In the final section, the essay describes what arguably is the single most remarkable feature of the Pentateuchal text: the presence in it of multiple types of metalepsis, including in its classical-rhetorical sense and its narrative variety; the latter appears as the two narrative channels sometimes collide and periodically warp the narrative integrity of one or the other channel.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Beyond the Mainland of Logos: Mind’s far-flung Islands of Suprarational Intuition and Hyperconscious IlluminationSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Cogito Interruptus, Logos Dishonored: Critique of “Committed” ReasonSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pentateuch’s Garden of Semiosis: Ancient Israel’s Good-Evil Altercation of Ruptured Doxa, Philosophical Epistêmê, and Divine 'Megaphors'Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Israel’s Mysterium Tremendum & the Sôd Hypothesis: Video Interview of A.S. Kohav by Ori Z. Soltes (Day 1)To watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bt9i_mXmYPI&t=2499s 

The int... more To watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bt9i_mXmYPI&t=2499s  The interview was conducted in June 2018, on two separate days. The present video is Part One/Day 1. The interviewer, Ori Z. Soltes, PhD, teaches at Georgetown University across a range of disciplines, from theology and art history to philosophy and political history. Dr. Soltes is the former director and curator of the B’nai B’rith Klutznick National Jewish Museum, Washington, DC, where he curated over eighty exhibitions. Soltes has authored scores of books, articles, exhibition catalogs, and essays on diverse topics.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Day 2: Israel’s Mysterium Tremendum & the Sôd Hypothesis: Video Interview of A.S. Kohav by Ori Z. SoltesTo watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZwNn5o4Y-nA&t=4624s

The inte... more To watch the video, please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZwNn5o4Y-nA&t=4624s  The interview was conducted in June 2018, on two separate days. The present video is Part Two/Day 2. The interviewer, Ori Z. Soltes, PhD, teaches at Georgetown University across a range of disciplines, from theology and art history to philosophy and political history. Dr. Soltes is the former director and curator of the B’nai B’rith Klutznick National Jewish Museum, Washington, DC, where he curated over eighty exhibitions. Soltes has authored scores of books, articles, exhibition catalogs, and essays on diverse topics.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Radio Interview of Dr. Kohav (Radio Show #341 - 26OCT19)"The Mystical Positivist" Radio Show,  2019https://mysticalpositivist.blogspot.com/2019/10/the-mystical-positivist-radio-show-341.html

Th... more https://mysticalpositivist.blogspot.com/2019/10/the-mystical-positivist-radio-show-341.html  The Mystical Positivist is a weekly radio show on KOWS-LP FM 107.3 Occidental, CA, and on the web at KOWS-LP Live Feed, Saturdays from 4 - 6pm PST.  This week on The Mystical Positivist, we present a conversation pre-recorded on October 20th, 2019 with Alex S. Kohav PhD. Alex Kohav is the editor of and contributor to the recently published Mysticism and Meaning: Multidisciplinary Perspectives.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Plato and/in America: Distrust of Democracy, or Why Chase Poets out of the RepublicSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
PRIESTLY INITIATION IN ANCIENT ISRAEL---ASOR Blog: The Sôd Hypothesis as the Missing Link between Israel’s Earliest Civilization and Cultic Praxis and Mysterium Tremendum of Its DeitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
FAQs apropos of A. S. Kohav’s book, The Sôd HypothesisAncient Israelite Priestly Initiation: The Question of Mosaic Kabbalah

Issues and Background R... more Ancient Israelite Priestly Initiation: The Question of Mosaic Kabbalah Issues and Background Related to The Sôd HypothesisSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 4.1 Structural Diagram of an Esoteric Literary Work"Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis," Routledge,  2023Chapter 4 has the following subtitle: "Accessing the Torah’s Veiled Axis of Communication." To st... more Chapter 4 has the following subtitle: "Accessing the Torah’s Veiled Axis of Communication." To state the problem, we are concerned here with both (1) what Paul Grice has called the “anatomy of speaker meaning” and (2) how one may untangle (interpret) the speaker’s or author’s resultant text.   One of the possibilities regarding the first issue, as M. A. K. Halliday and Matthiessen have suggested, might be a situation of the author indulging in “new semiotic activities.” Grice prefers to cast this in somewhat less positive terms, as the speaker having “what [one] might call a sneaky intention.” This condition may be further intentionally aggravated, especially in mystical and occult works, by the use of invented codes. In such cases, clearly neither a diachronic, nor a synchronic, nor even a panchronic approach would be of any use: the author’s message, if intended only for those who are able to untangle the coded information, will not be received by those oblivious to the peculiar nature of such texts.  This study, therefore, proposes that an approach targeting such a secret textual message might be called metachronic, given that it largely eschews the surface meanings tied to either the synchronic or the diachronic considerations. Where, in the multilayered construction that is language, will such metachronic information be located? In terms of textual mimetic/communicative distinctions, the metachronic information by definition must not be sought, at least initially, in the mimetic axis (i.e., the surface meaning) but only in the axis of communication.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 5.1 The Sôd’s Three Continua (with three contexts, three semantic fields,
and three grounds linked to Jakobson’s factor/functions of literary communication)Early Israel,  2023Lubomír Doležel’s depiction of a model as “metalanguage for descriptions” is apt apropos of assem... more Lubomír Doležel’s depiction of a model as “metalanguage for descriptions” is apt apropos of assembling a model of the Pentateuchal text and, along the way, developing a meta-language for the Pentateuchal text’s account. As was first detailed in Chapter 4, several emergence-based modeling and research-methodology categories are being utilized in this study in order to foreground the conjectured Sôd stratum. These principally range from E. D. Hirsch’s three investigative criteria (the author’s cultural given, the author’s horizons, and the question of genre), to Husserl’s notions of hyletic-noetic-noematic structure of an “act of consciousness” and Jakobson’s six factor/functions of a literary text, and finally to Ronald Langacker’s cognitive-linguistic “grounds” and Prieto’s semiotic notions of semantic and noetic “fields.” If one has in one’s hands a hard copy of the Pentateuch, perhaps one can visualize simultaneously amassed within it no fewer than six separate continua, or six “worlds of meaning” (including the three hyletic-noetic-noematic “worlds” of the conventional, or literal reading, which however, are all contained within the visible narrative channel within the Pentateuch). As one can see from Figure 5.1, apportioned among and within the three Sôd-related continua are five of the six Jakobsonian factor/functions of a textual communication. The sixth one—the CONTACT, along with its so-called phatic function—is carried by the physical book that one holds, being the actual medium of transmission of Pentateuchal communication. Allotted to the other five factor/functions are, first of all, three separate contexts of the Sôd—designated as Setting, Topic, and Object—representing the Jakobsonian CONTEXT/referential function in the three respective continua. Second are three distinct “grounds,” directed to the ADDRESSEE/conative function. Third is a single ground—the Meta-Ground—where the ADDRESSER, that is, the author(s) of the Pentateuch, is positioned. Fourth is a single factor/functional occurrence of the MESSAGE/poetic function, marked as the poiesis—that is to say, the employment of literary craftsmanship exhibited in the text in question; it is present only in the Noetic-Inferring Continuum. Fifth and finally, the CODE/metalingual function is distributed among the continua, respectively, as “fields” of “inferential signifiers,” “conferential signifieds,” and “deferential referents.”Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 5.2: Components of the s-CODE (including communicative actions; referential fields; sign correlates; type of content; representation type; and brief descriptions)Early Israel (Routledge, 2023)Figure 5.2 focuses on just one of the six Jakobsonian factor/functions, namely, the Code, or meta... more Figure 5.2 focuses on just one of the six Jakobsonian factor/functions, namely, the Code, or metalingual function (here designated as the s-Code, to distinguish it from the Code pertaining to the literal narrative channel).Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 5.3 The Sôd Stratum in Phenomenological and Semiotic Domains (Grounds, Continua, and Contexts of the Sôd, Hyletic-Noetic-Noematic Framework, and the Semiotic Triangle of the Sign)"Early Israel," Routledge,  2023A question may be broached: Why exactly are three worlds-of-meaning continua being contemplated v... more A question may be broached: Why exactly are three worlds-of-meaning continua being contemplated vis-à-vis the putative esoteric Sôd stratum and not, say, two, or five? Consider Figure 5.3, which schematically presents the three fundamental aspects of “meaning”: the Signifier, the Signified, and the Referent. It features key theorists throughout history who had something germane to say on the subject of meaning and whose relevant terms-of-the-art are logged there. Most semioticians have accepted a triadic structure of the sign, in which the referential meaning (the Referent, for our purposes) is associated with the denotatum (object, thing, or referent); whereas the sense-meaning suggests the designatum and the related-to-it Signified (content, sense, meaning, idea, or interpretant). The third element of the sign’s triad, the Signifier—the expression, symbol, logos, word, sign vehicle, or representamen—refers to the actual expression of the sign, be it by way of language or otherwise.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 6.1 The Pentateuchal Universe of Discourse"Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis," Routledge,  2023Chapter 6 introduces a conceptual-structural diagram (Figure 6.1) that maps the Pentateuchal “uni... more Chapter 6 introduces a conceptual-structural diagram (Figure 6.1) that maps the Pentateuchal “universe of discourse” first discussed in Chapter 3. From the diagram’s two esoteric quadrants, this book is primarily focusing on the “individual-esoteric quadrant,” which sketches a précis of what the book will endeavor to unfold throughout its length: the human-divine interscalar interactions and the issue of the so-called induction methods enabling such interactions.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 6.2 A Theoretical Model of Pentateuch’s Systemic Structures & FunctionsEarly Israel, Routledge,  2023As a centerpiece of the "Early Israel" book, Chapter 6 presents a theoretical model of the Pentat... more As a centerpiece of the "Early Israel" book, Chapter 6 presents a theoretical model of the Pentateuch, which schematically encapsulates the exceeding complexity of this text. Continuing the still mostly provisional tracking of the Sôd that began in earlier chapters—this time in order to develop the necessary discourse apparati, terminology, and approaches—and using a transdisciplinary approach, the study develops the Pentateuchal theoretical model by constructing and mapping relevant contexts into demonstrata (fig. 6.2). The Pentateuch emerges as a multipurpose entity comprising a multilevel, multicode, multicontext, multi-addressee, multimessage textual production. Engaging (1) Husserl’s noetic-noematic-hyletic phenomenological framework; (2) semiotic signifier-signified-referent aspects; (3) Jakobson’s factors/functions of literary texts; and (4) Habermas’s “communicative actions,” the model consists of (i) manifold discursive planes; (ii) multiple contexts, grounds, and semantic fields; (iii) inferential “continuums,” or domains guiding textual data derivation and constraining data analysis; and (iv) methodology using interrogative “inferential coordinates” and a custom-developed “noetic-literary” method.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
EXHIBITS 7.1-7. 21 (Textual passages from the Pentateuch and secondary sources and critical literature denoting the clues to the narrative trail of the conjectured Sôd stratum)Early Israel,  2023The Exhibits, from Chapter 7 of "Early Israel," have been selected by the author to guide the res... more The Exhibits, from Chapter 7 of "Early Israel," have been selected by the author to guide the research; they are seen as raw data to be scrutinized in this chapter, affording the initial entry into the problematics of the literal narratives in the Pentateuch. Chapter 7, “The Pentateuchal Noetic Signifier: Retrieving the Torah within the Scripture,” is devoted to research proper, which here refers to data acquisition. A selection of available textual research methods is reviewed early in Chapter 7, ultimately choosing cognitive poetics as the basis for developing the study’s customized, necessarily idiosyncratic research methodology. The research phase in Chapter 7 pertains to the de dicto, or the “as written,” and thus to the specific textual passages in the Pentateuch, as well as to relevant interpretive counterparts from secondary sources and critical literature deemed to denote the narrative trail of the conjectured Sôd stratum. The research methodology used in the book is developed entailing seven “interrogatory forms”—the Who, the What, the Where, the Whereto, the When, the How, and the Why; a triple set of these forms—called “inferential coordinates”—are related to each of the three continua that are the domains of the conjectured Sôd stratum. In Chapter 7, these interrogative forms are used for researching the esoteric signifier.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 7.1: Noetic Signifier Ascertained: Cognitive-Deictic Pointers of the Noetic-Inferential Continuum de dicto s-SETTING"Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis," Routledge,  2023The research methodology used in the book is developed entailing seven “interrogatory forms”—the ... more The research methodology used in the book is developed entailing seven “interrogatory forms”—the Who, the What, the Where, the Whereto, the When, the How, and the Why; a triple set of these forms—called “inferential coordinates”—are related to each of the three continua that are the domains of the conjectured Sôd stratum. In chapter 7, these interrogative forms (called in this domain "cognitive-deictic pointers") are used for researching the esoteric signifier. Beginning with the WHO[SETTING], the inferential coordinate focusing on identifying a potential primary character within the hypothesized esoteric narrative, the research leads to Israel’s deity. The next two coordinates, the WHERETO[SETTING] and the WHY[SETTING], are determined as being related, respectively, to the “Promised Land” and to one’s unimpeded ability to worship YHWH. Next, the WHAT[SETTING] is ascertained as being related to the concept and the experience of “crossing over,” of which the designation “Hebrew,” ‘ibrî, is indicative. The conquest of the Promised Land dramatically depicted in the Book of Joshua is proposed as the Torah’s apparent indication regarding the HOW[SETTING]. Turning next to the WHERE[SETTING], the research foregrounds the puzzling, persistent, highly peculiar portrayal of “wells” and well-digging in the kingdom of Gerar bordering the Promised Land and involving, almost identically, Abraham and Isaac. Finally, the WHEN[SETTING] is identified with Jacob’s pointedly marked life stages.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 8.1 Schematic Diagram of the Sôd’s Noetic SignifierEarly Israel,  2023[See Fig. 8.1 in conjunction with Fig. 8.2.] Worse than the threat of circularity is the apprehen... more [See Fig. 8.1 in conjunction with Fig. 8.2.] Worse than the threat of circularity is the apprehension we experience pertaining to the odd, unaccounted-for passages in Genesis pertaining to the kingdom of Gerar (see Exhibits 7.15 and 7.17), which, with their subject matter of the wells, belong to the WHERE[SETTING]. Yet the WHERE[TOPIC] in the noematic-conferential continuum—where much revolves around the “Promised Land” and its principal, though still conjectured connection to (1) the “access to God” (the WHY[TOPIC]); (2) “expanded consciousness” (the WHERETO[TOPIC]); (3) initiation, as the journey to the Promised Land, that is, expanded consciousness (the WHAT[TOPIC]); and (4) the would-be initiate (the WHO[TOPIC])—perhaps also ought to be related to these same issues. And, in fact, there is a connection between the Gerar-related passages in Exhibits 7.15 and 7.17 and these issues: the marked, peculiar circumstance that Gerar—as well as Beersheba (see Exhibit 7.17[h])—were in fact on the border of the Promised Land (Exhibit 7.18).Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 8.2 Promised Land as Initiate’s Expanded Consciousness (Initiate’s head and body as seen from above)Early Israel,  2023[See Fig. 8.2 in conjunction with Fig. 8.1.] If one were to assume a bird’s-eye view, looking dow... more [See Fig. 8.2 in conjunction with Fig. 8.1.] If one were to assume a bird’s-eye view, looking downward (Fig. 8.2), the circle representing “expanded consciousness” can be seen as representing the human head (complete with two ears and nose). Is there anything below this schematic head, which occupies our entire field of vision? It is of course the human body that is located below the head. Lest I am accused of engaging in a silly game, I wish to state that here we have approached what perhaps is the single most important “secret” of the esoteric system we are recovering (as well as its single most difficult, most counterintuitive concept). If the initiate’s expanded state of mind and consciousness can be represented by a geographical landmass known as the Land of Israel (or the Promised Land), then this same land area can indeed represent the initiate’s head and, moreover, his body, too. It is the contention of the present study that the WHERE[TOPIC] is, in fact, “the physical body” of the would-be initiate. If, as claimed by the anthropologist Mary Douglas, “everything symbolizes the body,” why not a “promised land” where that body’s higher consciousness must be won and secured?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 8.3: Noematic Signified Ascertained: Content-Communicative Locators of the Noematic-Conferential ContinuumEarly Israel,  2023Figure 8.3 presents the "content-communicative locators" of the Noematic-Conferential Continuum, ... more Figure 8.3 presents the "content-communicative locators" of the Noematic-Conferential Continuum, that have enabled the ascertaining of the Pentateuch's noematic signified. Chapter 8, “Israel’s Noematic Signified: Reverse-Engineering the Pentateuchal Deific Numinous,” is devoted to the analysis of the textual research data assembled in Chapter 7. Here, the data are examined, with special attention to the “traces” of the second-channel narrative manifesting as incongruous, metaleptic “protuberances” within the first channel’s mimetic unfoldment. The research moves now into the realm of de re, or “of the thing” itself, which is still not the final referent. The WHY[TOPIC]—that is, “the Why” of the noematic signified—is determined to be about “access to YHWH.” The WHERETO[TOPIC] is likewise tied to one’s ability to access God; it is deemed to be connected to alteration of consciousness. The WHAT[TOPIC] is identified with the journey to the Promised Land, that is, the process of initiation, whereas the WHO[TOPIC] is designated as implicating the would-be initiate. Ascertaining the WHERE[TOPIC], the reader is facing one of the most counterintuitive of notions, which in the earliest Hebraic esoteric tradition is at the same time perhaps the single most zealously guarded secret: namely, the idea of a bodily connection to the issue of access to God. Thus, the WHERE[TOPIC] is the body of the would-be initiate. Finally, the WHEN[TOPIC] is, or occurs, when one chooses the path of Jacob, the path of the initiate-of-YHWH-to-be, whereas the HOW[TOPIC] concerns the all-important, intensely guarded induction methods and procedures.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 9.1 Kabbalistic Tree of LifeEarly Israel (Routledge, 2023)Figure 9.1, "Kabbalistic Tree of Life," highlights both the commonalities and differences between... more Figure 9.1, "Kabbalistic Tree of Life," highlights both the commonalities and differences between the Pentateuchal "seven wells" and their later elaborations in the Sefer Yetzirah and the Zohar, expanding them to Ten Sefirot. They are also related to the  “image of Elohim." The sefirotic elaboration of the “image of Elohim” by the Sefer Yetzirah and the relevant Zoharic passages that lead one toward grasping the meaning of the Yetziratic expression "ten sefirot bĕlî mah" is important for two crucial reasons. First, the ten-sefirotic array representing the “forces” or “gods” that presumably constitute Elohim, when combined with the import of the ubiquitous “wells” (discussed in the WHERE[OBJECT] section), will necessarily lead us to the seven chakras within the human body. The latter are, I will argue, unmistakably implicated in the Pentateuchal text, while the ten sefirot are both a numerical and conceptual later elaboration of the chakra-based framework. Second, the Zohar’s enabling the determination of the meaning of the “mah”—albeit requiring some serious kabbalistic juggling on the part of the investigator (see "Excursus: Deconstructing Bĕlî Mah" section in Chapter 9) is critical for establishing one of the very few genuine Hebraic “words of power.” The Pentateuchal text knows next to nothing about the sefirot, and it certainly strenuously rejects a dualistic division of reality. It does have, of course, the two celebrated trees—the Tree of Life and the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil. The question of the WHAT[OBJECT] will thus be provisionally (in Chapter 9) decided as being related to the following emerging notion: THE BODY AS A TREE OF LIFE. The human being is endowed with seven spiritual-somatic potencies (the seven “chakras,” as discussed in detail later), and these, for the Homo erectus who eventually becomes Homo sapiens and finally Homo sapiens sapiens, do line up vertically (thus resembling a tree).Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 9.2: Hyletic Referent Ascertained: Metacommunicative Object Identifiers of the Hyletic-Deferential Continuum"Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis," Routledge,  2023Figure 9.2 presents the inferential coordinates of the hyletic-deferential continuum, called in t... more Figure 9.2 presents the inferential coordinates of the hyletic-deferential continuum, called in the book "metacommunicative object identifiers." Chapter 9, “The Mysterium Tremendum of the God of Israel: Recovering the Esoteric Referent of Ancient Israelite Initiatory Praxis,” arrives at the juncture that is this book’s raison-d’être: establishing whether a concealed stratum exists within the Pentateuch. Here, our concern is with the hyletic designatum, in other words, the ultimate referential “object” of the entire conceptual apparatus that this study has constructed. The question of the WHAT[OBJECT] is provisionally resolved as being related to the following emerging notion: the body as a Tree of Life. Next, the HOW[OBJECT] is determined to be connected to the Divine names MIh and MaH, the “great shout” exemplified in the Book of Joshua, and the particular role that hands play. The WHERE[OBJECT] comprises the seven bio-energy centers (chakras), whereas the WHY[OBJECT], the WHO[OBJECT], and the WHERETO[OBJECT] are deemed related to the would-be initiate’s transformation of consciousness, an initiated priest of YHWH, and the adept’s striving to serve the God of Israel, respectively. Finally, the WHEN[OBJECT] indicates the moment when access to God first becomes possible; it is signaled by the experiential phenomena occurring in the initiate’s field of vision at such time, specifically, for example, a pastel-colored, transparent, streaky veil seemingly overlying one’s entire visual field.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Table 9.1 Comparison of Inferential Coordinates in the Three Continua (Summary of conclusions reached in "Early Israel" regarding inferential meanings, associated with each of the three continuums)"Early Israel: Cultic Praxis, God, and the Sôd Hypothesis," Routledge,  2023Table 9.1, "Comparison of Inferential Coordinates in the Three Continua," is the only Table in 'E... more Table 9.1, "Comparison of Inferential Coordinates in the Three Continua," is the only Table in 'Early Israel.' It summarises the conclusions reached in the book regarding inferential meanings, associated with each of the three continuums. Chapters 7 through 9 have systematically ascertained the triple set of meanings of the esoteric, second-channel narrative communication transmitted within the pages of the Pentateuch. This message communicated across almost three millennia was designated in the present book as the Sôd; the threefold set of its meanings is summarized in Table 9.1. The first set of meanings of the Sôd—investigated in Chapter 7—pertains to its noetic signifier: the de dicto, or the “as written” passages and designations actually appearing in the Pentateuchal text itself. The second set, surveyed in Chapter 8, entails a discursive exploration of the noetic signifier’s data, aiming to arrive at the noematic signified of the Sôd. Finally, in Chapter 9, it was at last possible to reverse-engineer the third set of the Sôd’s meanings, its all-important hyletic referent: that is, the precious details meant to be preserved for posterity by way of an audacious literary-religious communicative transmission through time and space, an esoteric broadcast in search of qualified and competent recipients.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 11.1: Edenic Megaphor-in-FormationEarly Israel (Routledge, 2023)Figures 11.1 and 11.2 are Pentateuchal "megaphors" (originating from the author's "Theory of Mega... more Figures 11.1 and 11.2 are Pentateuchal "megaphors" (originating from the author's "Theory of Megaphor"). Chapter 11, “In the Garden of Sacred Semiosis: The Conundrum of the Eleventh Commandment, Eden’s Theater of Ruptured Doxa and Fractured Epistêmê, and Emergence of ‘Megaphor,’” is the book’s closing chapter. What is the overarching import and meaning of the priests’ extraordinary communication across the millennia? Communicative intent aside, can one access or even just assess the meaning of the praxis per se that the priests were engaged in? This kind of meaning has little to do with narrativity and narratives. The wide-ranging discussion in this chapter, traversing philosophical, semiotic, linguistic, anthropological, cognitive-scientific, neurobiological, and even psychoanalytic domains, sets the stage for articulating the concept of superconsciousness, the realm of the hyperrational and suprasensory. Turning to analyzing God’s epistemic diktat—what the book calls the Eleventh Commandment—the chapter scrutinizes the Edenic narrative’s three paradoxical paradigms: (1) the question of knowing the difference between good and bad; (2) the notion of being or becoming “as gods”; and (3) certainty versus doubt. Capturing the sheer complexity and qualitative distinction the Edenic drama epitomizes by way of some all-encompassing metaphor or as any other conceivable figure proves futile; instead, the chapter elaborates a novel figurative-epistemic conception, a tropological edifice designated by a neologism “megaphor” (from the Greek phoros, “bearing,” and megas, “large, great”).Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Figure 11.2 Core Edenic and Pentateuchal MegaphorsEarly Israel (Routledge, 2023)Figures 11.1 and 11.2 are Pentateuchal "megaphors" (originating from the author's "Theory of Mega... more Figures 11.1 and 11.2 are Pentateuchal "megaphors" (originating from the author's "Theory of Megaphor"). Chapter 11, “In the Garden of Sacred Semiosis: The Conundrum of the Eleventh Commandment, Eden’s Theater of Ruptured Doxa and Fractured Epistêmê, and Emergence of ‘Megaphor,’” is the book’s closing chapter. What is the overarching import and meaning of the priests’ extraordinary communication across the millennia? Communicative intent aside, can one access or even just assess the meaning of the praxis per se that the priests were engaged in? This kind of meaning has little to do with narrativity and narratives. The wide-ranging discussion in this chapter, traversing philosophical, semiotic, linguistic, anthropological, cognitive-scientific, neurobiological, and even psychoanalytic domains, sets the stage for articulating the concept of superconsciousness, the realm of the hyperrational and suprasensory. Turning to analyzing God’s epistemic diktat—what the book calls the Eleventh Commandment—the chapter scrutinizes the Edenic narrative’s three paradoxical paradigms: (1) the question of knowing the difference between good and bad; (2) the notion of being or becoming “as gods”; and (3) certainty versus doubt. Capturing the sheer complexity and qualitative distinction the Edenic drama epitomizes by way of some all-encompassing metaphor or as any other conceivable figure proves futile; instead, the chapter elaborates a novel figurative-epistemic conception, a tropological edifice designated by a neologism “megaphor” (from the Greek phoros, “bearing,” and megas, “large, great”). The exceedingly complex, composite Edenic megaphor can be distilled to the following: each and every human being is—in potentia—a tree of life.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Related AuthorsDebashish BanerjiUniversity of Philosophical Research, Los Angeles, CA, Indian Studies, Faculty MemberGabriel DortheHarvard University, Program on Science, Technology and Society, Post-DocLanternativa LanteŽarko PaićStefano RozzoniUniversità degli Studi di Bergamo (University of Bergamo), Department of Foreign Languages, Literatures and Communication Studies, Post-DocBob WestwoodPatricia  TraperoUniversitat de les Illes Balears, Departament de Filología Española, Moderna y Clásica, Faculty MemberDaryl WennemannFontbonne University, History, Philosophy and Religion, Faculty MemberScott  JefferyUniversity of Stirling, Applied Social Science, Graduate StudentYvonne+ FörsterLeuphana University, MECS Institute For Advanced Study On Media Cultures Of Computer Simulation, Senior Research Fellow
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023