Hindu sects in Trinidad and Tobago – Indo-Caribbean Publications
7 captures
15 Apr 2021 - 29 Sep 2022
Apr
AUG
Feb
14
2020
2021
2022
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection:  Wide Crawl Number 18
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20210814101324/https://indocaribbeanpublications.com/2010/11/21/divali-festival-souvenir-magazine-2010/
Articles
Books
Magazines
Divali
Indian Arrival Day
Carnival
Media
Announcements
Photos
Videos
About us
Chakra
Indo-Caribbean Cultural Centre
Advertising Rates
Zoom Meetings
 
 
 
Divali MagazineMagazines
Hindu sects in Trinidad and Tobago
Divali festival souvenir magazine 2010
Indo-Caribbean Cultural Council (ICC) is proud to announce the publication of its latest Divali souvenir magazine. Divali, the Hindu Festival of Lights, was observed as a national holiday on Friday November 5, 2010.
The theme of this year’s edition of the magazine is “Hindu sects in Trinidad.” According to the 1990 official census data, Hindus in Trinidad form the second largest religious group in the country, after Roman Catholics. Roman Catholics comprise 29% of the population, Hindus 24%, Anglicans 11%, Muslims 6% and Presbyterians 3%. In a population of over one million, approximately 238,000 persons are Hindus.
Hinduism remains one of the oldest living religions in Trinidad and the wider world. Christians are divided into sects such as Catholicism, Anglicanism, Evangelicalism and Pentecostalism. Hindus are also separated into various sects. Traditionally, they have been branched into four main denominations: Vaishnavism, Shaivism, Shaktism and Smartism.
In Trinidad, Hindus can be further categorised conveniently into sects such as Sanatanist, Arya Samaj, Kabir Panth, Sikh, Shivnarine/Sieunarine, Lord Murugan, Mother Kali, Hare Krishna, Sai Baba, Ganapathi Sachchidananda, Radha Madav, Chinmaya Mission and the Divine Life Society. It is not a simple task to categorise Hindus since they are often open and versatile in their beliefs, practices and affiliations.
Read Online
 
October-November 2010
 
11 x 8 ½ inches
 
80 pages with advertisements and articles
 
ISSN 1683-4143
 
Glossy pages and cover
TABLE OF CONTENTS
About Divali in Trinidad and Tobago
Hindu sects in Trinidad and Tobago - Editorial
Greetings from the Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago - The Honourable Kamla Persad-Bissessar
Greetings from Minister of Arts and Multiculturalism - The Honourable Winston Peters
Greetings from the High Commissioner of India - Mr. Malay Mishra
Sanatanist sect - How Hinduism differs from Christianity
Sanatanist sect - The Hindu sacred texts
Sanatanist sect - Hindu philosophies, beliefs and practices
Sanatanist sect - The caste system and conversion
Arya Samaj sect - Its founder and the Trinidad missionaries
Arya Samaj sect - Local organisations, celebrations and ceremonies
Arya Samaj sect - Its primary schools and contribution to local Hinduism
Kabir Panth sect - Its founder and his poems and songs
Kabir Panth sect - Its local organizations, schools and temples
Kabir Panth sect - Its main prayer ceremony and its rituals
Sai Baba sect - Its founder and his followers
Sai Baba sect - Its philosophy, ceremonies and rituals
Sai Baba sect - Its centres and their charitable activities
Swami Ganapathi sect - Its founder and his philosophy
Swami Ganapathi sect - Its sacred river, temple, school and medical clinic
Swami Ganapathi sect - Its publications, seminars, orchestra and music therapy
Mother Kali sect - Its priests and their healing practices
Mother Kali sect - Its priests who spiritually elevate in trance
Chinmaya Mission sect - Its founder and his local missionary Swami
Chinmaya Mission sect - Its temple complex and schools
Chinmaya Mission sect - Its classes in Vedanta, Sanskrit, yoga, music, etc.
Sikh sect - Its founder, scriptures and local temples
Sikh sect - Its practices in the temple
Sikh sect - Items of clothing for the baptised
Hare Krishna sect - Its founder and the movement worldwide
Hare Krishna sect - Its scriptures, main mantra and songs
Hare Krishna sect - Its local temples, festivals and conversion activities
Radha Madhav sect - Its founder, his missionaries and their visit to Trinidad
Radha Madhav sect - Its charitable and humanitarian work
Radha Madhav sect - Its celebrations, congregations and local centres
Divine Life sect - Its founder, local Swami and its centres
Divine Life sect - Its significant contributions to local Hinduism
Lord Murugan sect - Its main deity and proposed temple
Lord Murugan sect - Its ceremonies, symbols and rituals
Shivnarine/Sieunarine sect - Its founder and its main scripture and ceremony
Shivnarine/Sieunarine sect - Its local priests and its practices
Kumar Mahabiris a full-time, resident anthropologist at the University of Guyana (UG). He is a former Assistant Professor at the University of Trinidad and Tobago (UTT). He obtained his Ph.D. in Anthropology from the University of Florida (UF).  As a doctoral student, he won a Florida Caribbean Institute Award, an A. Curtis Wilgus Grant, and an Organization of American States (OAS) Fellowship.
Mahabir received a National Award (Hummingbird Silver Medal) for his contribution to education in his country in 2011. He was among 50 recipients who received a Distinguished Alumni Award from the UWI Alumni Association.
Mahabir is the author of 12 books to date.
 
 
Swami Avenue,Don Miguel Road
San Juan, Trinidad and Tobago
West Indies. 
Tel: (868) 674-6008.
Tel/fax: (868) 675-7707
E-mail: dmahabir@gmail.com
indocaribbeanstaff@gmail.com 
Categories
Announcements (1)
Articles (41)
Books (31)
Magazines (40)
Carnival Magazine (1)
Divali Magazine (20)
Indian Arrival Day Magazine (19)
Media (11)
Photos (1)
Videos (9)
Zoom Meetings (1)
Uncategorized (2)
© Copyright 2020, Indo-Caribbean Publications