Building Sustainability Features | University of Hawaii System
Skip to Main Content
UH Home
Directory
MyUH
Work at UH
Apply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Information Technology Services
                        University of Hawaii System       
                    
Menu Open Mobile Menu
Search 
Search this site
Site search
HELP DESK
ITS Services
INFORMATION SECURITY
ALERTS
ABOUT
About
VP for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer
Academic Development and Technology (ADT)
Academic Technologies
Client Service and Operations Center (CSOC)
Cyberinfrastructure
Enterprise Systems
Information Security
Technology Infrastructure
ASK US
CONTACT ITS
Home   
About the Building
  
 Building Sustainability Features 
Building Sustainability Features
The Information Technology Center has been awarded the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certification, as defined under LEED for New Construction and Major Renovation Version 2.2 by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC.) An interactive design case study slideshow was developed to document many of the sustainable strategies incorporated in the building design.
Highlighted features include:
A solar control system (shading system) and catwalk helps to control direct sunlight while allowing cool, indirect daylight penetration especially on East and South facing exposures. This strategy reduces the cooling loads and allows for effective daylighting. Incorporating occupancy sensors and workstation task lights further reduces excessive use of electrical lighting.
Optimizing energy performance through the use of active chilled beams to provide efficient thermal comfort while promote occupant health by reducing re-circulated contaminants over traditional HVAC systems.
Promoting the health and reducing absenteeism were desirable goals in selecting building products with minimal or no off-gassing of volatile organic compounds (VOC.) Promoting employee healthy lifestyle by providing bicycle racks and showers within the building. Many staff often use stairs instead of elevators when travel within the building to get more exercise.
Use of low-flow water fixtures and drought-tolerant native landscaping in the building's green roofs and surrounding area to conserve potable water resources. Management of storm water run off to prevent flooding and pollution of regulated bodies of water (streams, ocean, and aquifer) is achieved by using a grass lined swale, a hydrodynamic seperator and permeable paving around the building.
Colocation and hosting of virtual servers services are available in the Data Center to help free up space and save on energy costs while improving security and enhancing operational efficiencies for all University Departments.
Education for the building occupants and visitors about the sustainable design strategies is accomplished through this website, powerpoint presentations in the building lobby, building guided tours and printed materials such as ITC Bldg LEED Dashboard Brochure.
Behavior changing awareness about sustainable strategies for building occupants and the general public is also facilitated through a Web-Based Building Dashboard which displays real-time information on energy and water consumption, temperature and humidity readings. The intent behind the dashboard is to promote occupant changes in behavior by providing immediate feedback about impact on their energy consumption actions.
Building Sustainability Features
                                            
Building Sustainability Strategies
                                            
IT Center Dashboard
                                            
IT Center LEED Brochure
                                            
Design Case Study
                                            
Information Technology Services (Site)
                                                                                                Information Technology Center                                                                                                                                2520 Correa Road                                                                                                                                Honolulu, Hawaii 96822                                                                                    
Contact Us
Telephone: (808) 956-8883
Email: help@hawaii.edu
                                                                        2444 Dole Street                                                                                                Honolulu, HI 96822                                                            
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institutionUse of this site implies consent with our Usage Policycopyright © 2018 University of Hawaiʻi
Calendar
Directory
Emergency Information
MyUH
Privacy Statement
Work at UH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Contact UHIf required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request.
Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
Go to Top