  
KBpedia: Novel Reference Concept
 
 
Toggle navigation
             
          
           
        
Home
knowledge Graph
SPARQL
Background
Overview
Features & Benefits
Data and Knowledge Structures
Technology
Machine Learning
Uses
Use Cases
Knowledge Graph (KG)
Browse the Knowledge Graph
Search the Knowledge Graph
Expand Queries Using Semsets
Uses and Control of Inferencing
Machine Learning (KBAI)
Create Supervised Learning Training Sets
Create Word Embedding Corpuses
Create Graph Embedding Corpuses
Classify Text
Create 'Gold Standards' for Tuning Learners
Disambiguate KG Concepts
Dynamic Machine Learning Using the KG
Mapping
Map Concepts
Extend KBpedia with Wikipedia
Extend KBpedia for Domains
General Use of the Mapper
Resources
Download KBpedia
About KBpedia
KBpedia FAQ
News About KBpedia
KBpedia Statistics
Additional Documentation
Support for KBpedia.
           
        
           
        
version 2.50 (6/15/2020)
See a problem? Tell us.
Reference Concepts
Search
Toggle Dropdown
Reference Concepts
Entities
           
        
           
        
           
        
 
           
        
Core Structure
                    These are the structural linkages among the core knowledge bases for this RC: ... more
                      The core structure for KBpedia is derived from six (6) main knowledge bases — OpenCyc, UMBEL, GeoNames, DBpedia, Wikipedia and Wikidata. The conceptual relationships in the KBpedia Knowledge Ontology (KKO) are largely drawn from OpenCyc and UMBEL, though any of the other four sources may contribute local knowledge graph structure. Additional reference concepts (RCs) are contributed primarily from GeoNames and Wikipedia. Wikidata contributes the bulk of the instance data, though instance records are actually drawn from all sources. DBpedia and Wikidata are also the primary sources for attribute characterizations of the instances.
                      Two characteristics define what is a core contributor to the KBpedia structure: 1) the scale and completeness of the source; and 2) its contribution of a large number of RCs to the overall KKO knowledge graph. The KBs in the core structure play a central role in the scope and definition of KBpedia. This core structure of KBpedia is supplemented by mappings to about 20 additional external linkages, which are highly useful for interoperability purposes, but do not themselves contribute to the same extent to the RC scope of the KKO graph.
                      Instances (or entities) are related to the KKO graph via the rdfs:type predicate, which assigns an entity to one or more parental classes. RCs within the KKO graph may be equivalent (owl:equivalentClass), a parent super class (kko:superClassOf), a child sub class (rdfs:subClassOf), or a closely related concept (kko:isCloselyRelated). These relationships define the edges between the nodes in the graph structure, and are also the basis for logical inferencing. 
                    
Sub-Classes
Direct
Inferred
Show all
Super-Classes
Direct
Inferred
Show all
Equivalent Classes
Same As
Is Related To
           
        
 
           
        
External Linkages
                    The Novel concept has these mappings to external knowledge graphs: ... more
                      KBpedia reference concepts (RCs) are linked to thousands of classes defined in nearly 20 external ontologies used to describe all kinds of public and private datasets. Some of the prominent external vocabularies include schema.org, the major structured data system for search engines, and Dublin Core, a key vocabulary from the library community. Other external vocabularies cover music, organizations, projects, social media, and the like.
                    
Sub-Classes
Direct
Inferred
Super-Classes
Direct
Inferred
Equivalent Classes
Same As
Is Related To
           
        
 
           
        
Entities
                    Here are some entities for this reference concept: ... more
Entities are distinct, nameable, individual things. Entities may be physical objects or conceptual works or discrete ideas, so long as they may be characterized by attributes shared by other instances. Entities may be parts of other things, so long as they have a distinct identity and character. Entities with shared attributes that are the essence of the things may be grouped into natural types, called entity types. These entity types may be further related to other entity types in natural groupings or hierarchies depending on the attributes and their essences that are shared among them.
                      For the current RC, which is by definition an entity type, we are displaying a small portion of its entities. You can browse all entities for this RC by clicking the Browse all entities button. 
                    
Number of entities
Entity examples
           
        
 
           
        
Aspect-related Entities
                    Here are some aspect-related entities for this reference concept: ... more
           
        
 
           
        
Typologies
                    The Novel concept is a member of these typologies: ... more
                      About 3/4 of all of the reference concepts (RCs) in KBpedia represent classes of entities, which themselves are organized into about 30 typologies. Most of these typologies are disjoint (lack overlap) from one another, which provides an efficient mechanism for testing subsets and filtering entities into smaller groups for computational purposes.
                      The major groupings of types reside in core typologies, which is where the largest degree of disjointedness occurs. There are some upper typologies (such as Living Things over Plants, Animals, etc.) that are used mostly for organizational purposes. The core typologies are the key ones to focus upon for distinguishing large groupings of entities. 
                    
Core
Extended
           
        
 
           
        
Broader Concepts
                    Learn ... more
Broader concepts represent the parents (or grandparental lineage in the case of inference) for the current reference concept (RC). The broader concept relationship is expressed using the transitive kko:superClassOf property. This property is the inverse of the rdfs:subClassOf property.
                    
Direct
Inferred
Narrower Concepts
                    Learn ... more
Narrower concepts represent the children (or grandchild lineages in the case of inference) for the current reference concept (RC). The narrower concept relationship is expressed using the transitive rdfs:subClassOf property. This property is the inverse of the kko:superClassOf property. 
                    
Direct
Inferred
           
        
                      KBpedia
                    
                KBpedia exploits large-scale knowledge bases and semantic technologies for machine learning, data interoperability and mapping, and fact extraction and tagging.
              
                    Latest News
                  
KBpedia Adds Major eCommerce Capabilities
06/15/2020
KBpedia Continues Quality Improvements
12/04/2019
Wikidata Coverage Nearly Complete (98%)
04/08/2019
                  Other Resources
                
About
FAQ
News
Use Cases
Documentation
Privacy
Terms of Use
                  Contact Us
                
                c/o Michael K. Bergman
                380 Knowling Drive
                
                Coralville, IA 52241
                
                U.S.A.
                
                Voice: +1 319 621 5225
              
                2016-2022 © Michael K. Bergman. All Rights Reserved.
              