Textiles Design Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Textiles Design14,042 FollowersRecent papers in Textiles DesignTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleWell Fashioned: Eco Style in the UK Crafts Council, London 2006 Interview with Rebecca Earley – CuratorThe exhibition was at the Crafts Council 2006, and toured the UK until end of 2007. It was the most visited show held at the London gallery since their records began. *Why did you want to develop the Well Fashioned exhibition?* The... moreThe exhibition was at the Crafts Council 2006, and toured the UK until end of 2007. It was the most visited show held at the London gallery since their records began.*Why did you want to develop the Well Fashioned exhibition?*The fashion industry has been something that has intrigued me for the last 15 years. In 1996 I started teaching at Chelsea College of Art and Design and became involved in a research project there, I became aware of how polluting and damaging the textile and fashion industry was (on a par with the chemical industry)i and once I started unearthing some of those facts it really became quite shocking; I started to think, ‘I’ve been contributing to this pollution both as a maker and as a consumer!’. Since then, I’ve been collecting information and case studies of designers and products and gathering general information about the fashion and textile industry, incorporating it into my practice; making my studio practice and the textiles I use as green as possible and to try and come up with new products that would perform better environmentally. Also whilst teaching I was very aware that I was constantly speaking to new generations of designers who were being taught a great deal about the aesthetics of design, but very little about the environmental effects of those design decisions. Between 80-90% of the total life cycle cost of any product (environmental and economic) are determined by the product design before production even begins.ii This places a huge amount of responsibility into the hands of the designer...Save to LibraryDownloadby Rebecca Earley•  8  Fashion design, Textiles, Textiles Design, CuratingEarthy textiles. Experiences from a joint teaching encounter between textile design and architectureThis paper presents experiences from a two-day teaching workshop where first year students in architecture meet with first year students in textile design for an assignment on building structures with textile, soil and plants designing... moreThis paper presents experiences from a two-day teaching workshop where first year students in architecture meet with first year students in textile design for an assignment on building structures with textile, soil and plants designing for indoor gardening with the aim of inspiring for more sustainable lifestyles. The background is a research project on textile architecture with the objective of exploring this new field and to establish a platform for long-term collaboration between the disciplines of architecture and textile design. The paper addresses pedagogical challenges in the meeting between first-years students of different disciplines and traditions, but also in the meeting between research and undergraduate teaching. The students produced creative results but had difficulties in exploring the full complexity of the task. An evaluative discussion is based on observations, photo documentation, notes during group discussions, follow-up questionnaires among the students and reflections among involved researchers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paula Femenías•  4  Textiles, Textiles Design, Textile Architecture, Architecture and TextilesO Design Têxtil no Brasil em Três Tempos: um Estudo Exploratório (Anais P&D 2008)Resumo A história do design têxtil no Brasil é uma área de estudos pouco explorada, que ainda não revelou processos, técnicas e nomes. A atividade profissional, conforme indicam as fontes, não parece ter cumprido cem anos de existência e... moreResumoA história do design têxtil no Brasil é uma área de estudos pouco explorada, que ainda nãorevelou processos, técnicas e nomes. A atividade profissional, conforme indicam as fontes,não parece ter cumprido cem anos de existência e raras são as pesquisas que destacam aatividade mesmo a partir da década de [19]60. Apesar da escassez de informações, é possívelmapear o desenvolvimento do segmento e as etapas que o constituem, indicando a existênciade um terreno de pesquisas ainda inexplorado.Palavras-chave: história do design têxtil; padronagem têxtil; tecelagemAbstractThe history of textile design in Brazil is a poorly explored area of study, which has not shownyet its processes, technics and names. According to the due sources, although the professionalactivity has already reached the age of one hundred years, there are very few researches onthe subject, a fact that we can observe even after the sixties. Despite the lack of information itis possible to map the area development and its phases, indicating the existence of a stillunexplored field for research.Keywords: textile design history; woven design; weavingSave to LibraryDownloadby Luz  Neira García•  2  Textiles Design, Fashion and Textile Design for EducationCrossing over Boundaries through Experimental PedagogyThis paper describes an experimental teaching platform, which aims to cross over boundaries to educate future designers and engineers. The Experimental Textile Design module (ETD) is a multidisciplinary set of courses developed under... moreThis paper describes an experimental teaching platform, which aims to cross over boundaries to educate future designers and engineers. The Experimental Textile Design module (ETD) is a multidisciplinary set of courses developed under Fashion, Clothing, and Textile Design program within School of Arts, Design and Architecture in cooperation with The School of Engineering at Aalto University. Through redoing design pedagogy by opening the world of engineering to design students and especially by exposing design methodologies and the visual research processes to engineering students, we can help collaborative teams to redo the future.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maarit  Salolainen•  7  Collaboration, Textiles Design, Multidisciplinary, Textile DesignDraft: Laamanen, T. & Seitamaa-Hakkarainen, P. (2008). Sources of Inspiration and Mental Image in Textile Design Process. Art, Design and Communication in Higher Education. vol 7/2. 105-119.Abstract The purpose of this study was to describe the sources of inspiration and the emergence of mental images in a virtual design course. The study was conducted in The Department of Home Economics and Craft Science at the University... moreAbstractThe purpose of this study was to describe the sources of inspiration and the emergence of mental images in a virtual design course. The study was conducted in The Department of Home Economics and Craft Science at the University of Helsinki. During the virtual course, eleven students designed fabric collage textiles and carried out exercises using the technique in a networked environment. Qualitative content analysis was performed on the collected visual and verbal data. The study indicated that typical mental images related to visual, kinaesthetic and verbal aspects of design activity. It was essential to use diverse processing of mental images and multisensory sources of inspiration. A virtual environment lacks face-to-face interactions but, at the same time, it seems to provide a shared body of experiences about design examples.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pirita Seitamaa-Hakkarainen•  3  Textiles Design, Design process, Design ideationFashion & the Senses Symposium 2015The Fashion & the Senses Symposium held at LCF on 27th March 2015 was an international multi-disciplinary forum for industry professionals, practitioners, academics and postgraduate students with a shared interest in this emerging field -... moreThe Fashion & the Senses Symposium held at LCF on 27th March 2015 was an international multi-disciplinary forum for industry professionals, practitioners, academics and postgraduate students with a shared interest in this emerging field - fashion and the senses. It was co-organised by Sara Chong Kwan, Associate Lecturer in Cultural and Historical studies at LCF and a final year PhD candidate, and Bethan Alexander,  Course Director of the MA in Fashion Retail Management at LCF.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sara Chong Kwan•  31  Anthropology, Fashion design, Social Sciences, Fashion TheoryMacchine Caru srlStarted in 1961 as a mechanical workshop for textile’s machines spare parts and gradually begins to produce machines to cut, brush and finishing corduroy, thus satisfying the specific requirements of the numerous corduroy manufacturers of... moreStarted in 1961 as a mechanical workshop for textile’s machines spare parts and gradually begins to produce machines to cut, brush and finishing corduroy, thus satisfying the specific requirements of the numerous corduroy manufacturers of the area.Its activities throughout the 60's and 70's grows considerably thanks to a vast extension of the range of machines produced.In the beginning of the 80's, Carù develops its first Sueding Machine, internationally patent for their high efficiency.In the following years these machines were diversified and perfected, both technically and production-wise, so as to completely satisfy all sueding requirements.In the same time, taking advantage of it's deep knowledge of composite materials (carbon fibra) and of the most sophisticated automation and electronic storage systems, Carù begins to produce highly customised Raising, Shearing and Cleaning machines. With more than 40 year old of experience, Caru’ have occupied a position of first importance in mechanical textile field all over the world.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anne Sulistijadewi•  17  Textiles, Woven Textiles, Knitted Textiles, Textiles DesignIl valore costruttivo della tessilità nell'architettura degli interniSave to LibraryDownloadby Roberto de Paolis•  4  Architecture, Architectural History, Textiles Design, Interior Design (Architecture)LIFE STYLE – Tendencie súčasného dizajnu: Dizajn kompozitných materiálov tužených prírodnými vláknami (teoretická časť dizertačnej práce)Abstrakt V práci som sa zamerala na riešenie otázok využitia prírodnými vláknami tužených vizuálnych kompozitov. Zamerala som sa na ich dizajn a vývoj tak, aby budúci priemyselne vyrábaný produkt/materiál spĺňal zároveň: 1/ vizuálne... moreAbstrakt  V práci som sa zamerala na riešenie otázok využitia prírodnými vláknami tužených vizuálnych kompozitov. Zamerala som sa na ich dizajn a vývoj tak, aby budúci priemyselne vyrábaný produkt/materiál spĺňal zároveň: 1/ vizuálne formálno-estetické požiadavky kladené na jeho expozíciu v interiéry; 2/ všetky normatívne požiadavky (ako napr. mechanickú odolnosť, svetlostálosť, oderuvzdornosť, nehorľavosť, atď.); 3/ požiadavky trvalej udržateľnosti z ekologického, ekonomického a sociálneho hľadiska (t.j. produkovateľnosť v lokálnych podmienkach, na báze existujúcich produkčných a logistických reťazcov).V prvých krokoch som vyvíjala prírodnými vláknami tužené vizuálne kompozity s uplatnením v  automotive interiéroch. Technické vláknité kompozity sa v tejto oblasti používajú i v súčasnosti, sú však prekryté ďalším materiálom/vrstvou tvoriacou dekor, čo o.i. zvyšuje finančnú a materiálovú záťaž ich výroby a aj neskoršej likvidácie; ich aplikácia v tomto sektore tvorí predpoklad úspešného splnenia vyžadovaných normatív i konštrukčne a procesne zhodných vizuálnych vláknitých kompozitov. V práci demonštrujem postupy, aplikáciou ktorých textilný dizajnér dosiahne požadovaný výsledný efekt: prienik naplnenia formálno-estetických požiadaviek na materiál priznávajúci svoj prírodný pôvod, a zároveň splnenie technických normatív pre účel a oblasť jeho použitia. V ďalších krokoch ilustrujem nekonvenčné prístupy a riešenia textilného dizajnéra, keď pre návrh/tvorbu cielene využívam prirodzené vlastnosti materiálu, bežne považované za jeho nevýhodu, či limitáciu (napr. zmeny farebnosti po expozícii svetlu či teplotným zmenám). Sústredila som sa i na využitie moderných funkčných pigmentov, ktoré okrem zaujímavých svetleno-farebných efektov poskytujú v tejto aplikácii pridanú hodnotu ako retardéry horenia. Testovala som možnosti ďalšej vizuálnej modifikácie navrhnutých prírodnými vláknami tužených vizuálnych kompozitov rôznymi spôsobmi potlače. Vo svojom spracovaní som nielen zdokumentovala reálnu možnosť akademického výskumu v tejto perspektívnej oblasti textilného dizajnu, ale zároveň som dokázala a zdokladovala možnosti špecifických prínosov textilného dizajnéra v podmienkach, ktoré kladie súčasná doba.Vyššie uvedené skutočnosti ma viedli k analýze úloh textilného dizajnéra v súčasnosti. Tieto jednak reflektujú historický vývin meniacich sa požiadaviek kladených na textilného dizajnéra, v súčasnosti však podliehajú dynamickým zmenám v dôsledku procesov transformácie charakteru a podmienok priemyselnej výroby v geopolitickom kontexte. Teoretický historický rozbor meniacich sa požiadaviek na náplň práce textilného dizajnéra viedli k lepšiemu pochopeniu a definovaniu jeho úloh v súčasnosti, a tak aj mojej úlohy a kompetencií pri realizácii návrhov prírodnými vláknami tužených vizuálnych kompozitov. Okrem analýzy meniaceho sa postavenia textilného dizajnéra vyplývajúcej z historických súvislostí jeho úloh, rozoberám aj nové impulzy nútiace k zmene tradičného ponímania tejto funkcie. Zároveň načrtávam, že nastupujúce zmeny v požiadavkách na textilné materiály a produkty – a teda aj na ich návrh/dizajn, vyžadujú od dizajnéra orientáciu v čoraz širšom spektre odborných, materiálových a procesných vedomostí a zručností. Tieto vytvárajú komplexný základ znalostí doteraz v tejto miere a rozsahu nepožadovaných. V konečnom dôsledku však umožňujú realizáciu nevyhnutných dobou kladených požiadaviek - o.i. trvalej udržateľnosti. Podčiarkujem, že tento nový trend, resp. dobou generované nové požiadavky, je nevyhnutné integrovať najmä do programov vysokoškolského vzdelávania, nakoľko úspešnosť absolventov bude závisieť od ich pripravenosti (t.j. schopnosti) riešiť aktuálne a budúce požiadavky praxe. Zároveň zdôrazňujem, že požiadavky doby, a teda aj výuky, jednoznačne vyžadujú multidisciplinárny a translačný prístup. Riešenie úloh VaV ako i výrobnej praxe vyžaduje schopnosť efektívnej inter- a trans- disciplinárnej komunikácie a spolupráce dizajnéra s ostatnými odborníkmi, ktorej predpokladom je integrácia klasických vedomostí oblasti textilného dizajnu a základných znalostí príslušných normatív už do vzdelávacieho procesu. Mnohé uvedené aspekty možno efektívne implementovať využitím domácich a zahraničných grantových schém pre financovanie medzinárodných štipendijných pobytov doktorandov.  Abstract My presented work addresses the issues of natural fiber reinforced visual composites application and usage. I focused on their design and development, in accordance with the demands to be met for their future industrial manufacturing: 1 / visual formal and aesthetic requirements of their interior application; 2 / all standard material requirements (e.g. mechanical resistance, light stability, abrasion resistance, flame resistance, etc.); 3 / sustainability requirements in ecological, economic and social terms (i.e. local production based on existing production capacities and logistics chains).In the first steps, I developed natural fiber reinforced visual composites for automotive interiors. Currently, technical fiber composites are used in this field, but they are hidden under another material – a decorative and protection layer. This results in increased financial and material burdens of their production and subsequent liquidation. Application of natural fiber reinforced visual composites in this sector presumes the fulfillment of the normatives, as they are consistent regarding their construction and processing. Herein I present some approaches of textile designer to achieve the desired final effect: the conjunction of fulfilling formal and aesthetic demands set on the material while keeping its natural character, and concurrently meeting the technical requirements (norms) set for the purpose and area of ​​use. In the second steps I propose unconventional approaches and solutions a textile designer can offer when creating designs aimed to capture and utilize the advantage of intrinsic properties of the material, which are commonly regarded as its disadvantage or limitation (e.g. pattern or color change after exposure to UV-light or due to changes of ambient temperature). Moreover, I investigated the potential implications of selected functional pigments. Their application renders, in addition to attractive luminous color effects, a required added value as flame-retardants. Further I tested the possibility of further visual modifications of proposed natural fiber visual composites by various printing methods. In my thesis I documented the contemporary role and the position of academic research in the promising field of textile design. I also documented the outcomes resulting from the possibilities versus requirements, regarding the specific contributions of textile designer in the current circumstances.These lines of evidence led me to analyze the contemporary role of the textile designer. His/her role on one hand reflects the historical development of the changing demands, on the other it encounters the dynamic changes in the requirements of transformational processes within the geopolitical context of industrial textile production. The analyses of historically changing demands on the textile designers role enable a better understanding and definition of his/her tasks in present, as well as of my own role and responsibilities in implementing the design proposals for natural fiber visual composites.  I discuss the new momentum for inducing a change of this traditional perception. I also focus on the outlining of the emerging changes regarding the requirements on designers orientation regarding material and process knowledge. Such a comprehensive knowledge and skill base has not been so far required. However, it is essential for the implementation of all necessary requirements and measures – e.g. of overall sustainability. It is important to integrate these new trends particularly into the programs of higher education.  The success of graduates will depend on their skill to address current and future requirements of the practice. I also emphasize that teaching/education itself will require a multidisciplinary and translational approach. Solving open issues of research, developing practice requiring the designer’s ability for effective inter- and trans-disciplinary communication and collaboration with other professionals. The integration of textile design traditional knowledge, as well as of basic knowledge of the relevant normatives should be integrated into the programs of higher education. Many of the mentioned can be efficiently implemented using domestic and foreign grant funding schemes of the doctoral fellowships.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zuzana Sebekova•  8  Textiles, Design Research, Textiles Design, Design-based researchTEKSTİL TASARIM ALANI OLARAK ÇÖZGÜLÜ ÖRME / WARP KNITTING AS TEXTILE DESIGN AREAÖzet Ev tekstilinden giyime, nihai üründen ara ürüne, birçok farklı alanda kullandığımız çözgülü örme ürünlerinin önemi, diğer kumaş üretim tekniklerinden farklı ve üstün özellikleri sayesinde artmaktadır. Çözgülü örme sektörüne hizmet... moreÖzet Ev tekstilinden giyime, nihai üründen ara ürüne, birçok farklı alanda kullandığımız çözgülü örme ürünlerinin önemi, diğer kumaş üretim tekniklerinden farklı ve üstün özellikleri sayesinde artmaktadır. Çözgülü örme sektörüne hizmet verecek olan tasarımcının hayalindeki ürünü elde edebilmesi için, hangi makinede, hangi yöntemi kullanarak, nasıl bir sonuç alacağını bilmesi gerekmektedir. Bu nedenle çözgülü örme, teknik bilgi ve estetik becerinin kaynaştığı bir yaratı alanıdır. Firmaların, tekstil sektörünün uluslararası rekabet koşullarında varlıklarını sürdürebilmeleri açısından, tasarımların kalitesi ve yeni ürünlerin geliştirilmesi önemli unsurlardır. Bu alanda yeni kaliteler ve desenler geliştirecek tasarımcılara ihtiyaç vardır. Ancak çözgülü örme alanında sektörün ihtiyacını karşılayabilecek vasıflarda tasarımcı yetiştirilmesine uygun bir eğitim programı bulunmamaktadır. Tasarımcı açığı genellikle tasarım eğitimi almamış teknik personelin sahada edindiği yazılım ve üretim deneyimiyle karşılanmaya çalışılmaktadır. Dolayısıyla geliştirilen tasarımlar, üretimin devamlılığını sağlamakta ancak tasarımların estetik yönü, uluslararası rekabet koşullarında üreticiyi ileriye taşıyamamaktadır. Araştırmanın amacı; çözgülü örme alanında tasarımcılar yetiştirilmesinin önemine dikkat çekmektir. Bu üretim tekniğinin tasarımcıya sunduğu olanakların ve tasarım süreçlerinin incelendiği araştırmada, tekstil tasarımcısının alandaki varlığı sorgulanmıştır. Dünyadan ve Türkiye'den Moda ve Tekstil Tasarımı programları olan toplam on altı üniversite seçilmiş ve bu üniversitelerin ders programları ve ders içerikleri, yapılandırılmamış gözlem metoduyla incelenmiştir. Dokuma, atkılı örme ve çözgülü örme alanlarına yönelik derslerin varlığı dikkate alınarak incelenen ders programlarından elde edilen bilgiler bir tablo ile aktarılmıştır. Sonuç bölümünde çözgülü örme alanına yönelik teorik ve uygulamalı tasarım eğitimine engel teşkil eden hususlar belirlenerek, klasik eğitim anlayışı içerisinde bu engellerin aşılması yönünde öneriler geliştirilmiştir. Konu alternatif bir yaklaşımla akademik kurumların dışına taşınmış, sektör ve üniversite işbirliğinden doğan yerinde öğrenme modelinin çözgülü örme alanında uygulanması neticesinde elde edilen olumlu gelişmeler paylaşılmıştır. Bu doğrultuda yerinde öğrenme metodunun, gerek var olan engellerin aşılması gerekse etkin bir öğrenme ortamı sunması açısından çözgülü örme tasarım eğitimi için uygun bir eğitim metodu seçeneği olduğu sonucuna ulaşılmıştır.Save to LibraryDownloadby Başak Özkendirci•  5  Textiles Design, Fashion and Textile Design for Education, Warp Knitting, Fabric DesignHAND PAINTING.pptxHand painting is the technique in which paint is applied, freehand, which brush (J.Kafka) Hand painting: teknik pengecatan dengan sikat (brush) memakai tangan. Sedangkan dalam kamus... moreHand painting is the technique in which paint is    applied, freehand, which brush (J.Kafka)     Hand painting: teknik  pengecatan dengan sikat (brush)                              memakai tangan. Sedangkan dalam kamus Inggris-indonesia “hand” artinya tangan, dan painting adalah lukisan. (Echols, John M:2003)       hand painting: lukisan tangan. Dari pengertian  diatas dapat bahwa yang dimaksud dengan Hand painting adalah teknik melukis pada suatu benda (gelas, kain, dll) dengan tangan menggunakan kuas atau alat bantu yang lain dengan menggunakan cat.Save to LibraryDownloadby arini permatasari•  2  Design, Textiles DesignComposición de estructuras relacionales en la producción de distintos campos de diseño (in Spanish)♦ ENGLISH: This paper (2016) uses a heuristic approach to compose a relational structures studying works from different design fields. ♦ SPANISH: Este trabajo (2016) trata de la composición de estructuras relacionales en la... more♦ ENGLISH: This paper (2016) uses a heuristic approach to compose a relational structures studying works from different design fields. ♦ SPANISH: Este trabajo (2016) trata de la composición de estructuras relacionales en la producción de distintos campos de diseño desde el enfoque heurístico.__________________________ ✔ PUBLISHED (Digital edition):Fuente / Source:http://www.centrodeheuristica.com.ar/archivos/Heuristica-TPFinal-PuglieseBalakyrevaNapolitano%20(3).pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Nataliya Balakyreva•  10  Design, Fashion design, Architecture, Heuristics(mit Sina Tauchert) Helenas Töchter. Frauen und Mode im frühen Griechenland (Darmstadt 2015)Die Geschichte der europäischen Mode reicht bis weit in die Antike zurück. Schon in den ältesten figürlichen Darstellungen und in Homers Ilias und Odyssee erscheinen Textil-Luxus und die Freude an schöner Kleidung als ein... moreDie Geschichte der europäischen Mode reicht bis weit in die Antike zurück. Schon in den ältesten figürlichen Darstellungen und in Homers Ilias und Odyssee erscheinen Textil-Luxus und die Freude an schöner Kleidung als ein selbstverständlicher Bestandteil der Lebenswelt: Nachdem Paris Helena geraubt hat, ist es ihm ein wichtiges Anliegen, für eine Ausstattung der neuen Braut zu sorgen, die ihrem Stand und ihrer Schönheit angemessen ist.Textilien und Kleidung haben über mehrere Jahrhunderte als Mittel der gesellschaftlichen Unterscheidung und zur markanten Absetzung der Geschlechter gedient. Von besonderem Interesse ist dabei der Zeitraum von der früharchaischen Zeit bis in die griechische Klassik. Die Autoren verbinden erstmals die ästhetikgeschichtliche, die sozialgeschichtliche und die kunsthistorisch-archäologische Pespektive und heben sich somit entschieden ab von den bisher vorhandenen Publikationen. Die präzisen Bildanalysen erfüllen die zahlreichen Abbildungen mit Leben.Save to LibraryDownloadby Klaus Junker and +1Sina Tauchert•  18  Ancient History, Classics, Fashion design, Fashion TheoryChenille yarn - project in macedonianSave to LibraryDownloadby Mimoza Ismajli•  13  Manufacturing, Industrial Design, Textiles Design, Textile EngineeringORESTE SERGI, I Capitoli, Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della seta di Catanzaro e la produzione di manifatture seriche tra XVI e XVII secolo.O. SERGI, I Capitoli, Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della seta di Catanzaro e la produzione di manifatture seriche tra XVI e XVII secolo, in Capitoli Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della Seta di Catanzaro, a cura di O. Sergi,... moreO. SERGI, I Capitoli, Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della seta di Catanzaro e la produzione di manifatture seriche tra XVI e XVII secolo, in Capitoli Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della Seta di Catanzaro, a cura di O. Sergi, Catanzaro, Camera di Commercio di Catanzaro, 2010, pp. 22 – 31.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oreste Sergi Pirrò•  23  Textiles, History of Textiles, Textiles Design, Ancient TextilesBasit Yapılı Dokuma TeknikleriDokuma kumaşlar basit ve bileşik yapılar olarak sınıflandırılmış ve konunun genişliği açısından iki ayrı yayında hazırlanması uygun görülmüştür. Basit Yapılı Dokuma Teknikleri’nde tek katlı kumaş yapıları, genel özellikleri ve çizim... moreDokuma kumaşlar basit ve bileşik yapılar olarak sınıflandırılmış ve konunun genişliği açısından iki ayrı yayında hazırlanması uygun görülmüştür. Basit Yapılı Dokuma Teknikleri’nde tek katlı kumaş yapıları, genel özellikleri ve çizim teknikleri ile ele alınmıştır. Kuvvetlendirilmiş ve çok katlı kumaş yapılarını içerecek olan Bileşik Yapılı Dokumalar ise hazırlık aşamasındadır. Basit Yapılı Dokuma Teknikleri, Üniversitelerin Güzel Sanatlar, Sanat ve Tasarım Fakülteleri, Meslek Yüksekokulları ve orta öğretim Meslek Liselerinde “Tekstil Tasarımı” eğitimi alan öğrencilere yönelik ele alınmış ve yıllardır derslerimde kullandığım yöntemler çerçevesinde geliştirilmiştir.Woven fabrics were classified as simple and compound structures and it was considered appropriate to prepare the subject in two different publications in terms of width. Single-ply fabric structures in Simple Woven Techniques are discussed with their general characteristics and drawing techniques. Compound Woven Fabrics, which will include reinforced and multi-ply fabric structures, are under preparation. Simple Structured Weaving Techniques, Fine Arts, Art and Design Faculties of Universities, Vocational High Schools and Secondary Vocational High Schools have been developed for the students who are educated in Textile Design.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fatma Nur Başaran•  4  Textiles Design, Textile Technology, Weaving, TEKSTİLTHE IMPORTANCE OF ETHNOGRAPHIC RESEARCH IN TEXTILE DESIGNAbstract Etymologically, ethnography comes from the Greek words ethnos (nation, people) and graphia (writing) and means therefore a written presentation of a people or a population and seeks to identify and interpret its universal traits.... moreAbstractEtymologically, ethnography comes from the Greek words ethnos (nation, people) and graphia (writing) and means therefore a written presentation of a people or a population and seeks to identify and interpret its universal traits. With its roots in cultural anthropology, ethnography focuses on small-scale societies and the original central concept remains within the meaning of culture. In anthropology, ethnography developed a way to explore the everyday realities of people living in small scale, non-western societies and to make understandings of those realities explicit and available to others. The approach relied on the ability of all humans to figure out what is going on through participation in social life. The techniques ethnographers use follow the routine of the everyday life. Thus the research techniques and strategies of ethnography developed and evolved over the years to provide ways for the ethnographer to “be present" for the mundane, the exceptional, and the extraordinary events in people's lives. With the advent of postmodernism, ethnographic perspective became a valuable tool in the design of new technologies. This has presented a new set of challenges for designers as they design and built applications that leverage powerful, digital technologies for use by people of all societies and cultures. The field of design has been an adjunct to art and craft and in a postmodern context. With the transformation of design into an industrial discipline came responsibilities that the field of design studies has only recently begun to address methodologies. Design is now becoming a generalizable discipline that may as readily be applied to processes, interfaces. To understand design as a discipline that can function within any of these frames means developing a general theory of design. From methodological perspective there is no solid theoretical framework which can assist the craftsman or the novice textile designer to consciously integrate their culture in designing products. For this reason this paper challenges designers to gain a deeper understanding of the importance of ethnographic research in textile design and explain qualitative techniques that can be used in ethnographic researches for textile design, searching for meaning in socially constructed reality or a traditional context.Keywords: Ethnographic research, textile design, design science researchSave to LibraryDownloadby BANU HATICE GURCUM and +1Pınar Arslan•  9  Design, Research Methodology, Ethnography, Design ResearchDigital Printing Applications in Textile and Printing Industry of TurkiyeSave to LibraryDownloadby gülderen Çavuş•  6  Textiles Design, Technical Textile, Garments Manufacturing, Fashion Design and Pattern MakingCultural Threads: transnational textiles today (Bloomsbury: 2015)Cultural Threads considers contemporary examples of artists and designers who work at the intersection of multiple cultural influences and use textiles as their vehicle. Ideas about belonging to multiple cultures, which in reality result... moreCultural Threads considers contemporary examples of artists and designers who work at the intersection of multiple cultural influences and use textiles as their vehicle. Ideas about belonging to multiple cultures, which in reality result in a sense of connection to everywhere and nowhere simultaneously, are pertinent to society today more than ever. So too are the multiple, often overlooked, histories behind the objects that make up our material world. Selected content uses the materials we associate with textiles, but function is not always the first priority of the maker. Much like the cultural references of their makers, many contemporary textiles exist in an in-between world, not wholly embraced by the establishments of art and design, nor functional objects in the conventional sense of craft. Contributors include Sabine Broeck, Mr Somebody & Mr Nobody (Heidi Chisholm/Sharon Lombard), Francoise Dupré, Christine Checinska, Elaine Reichek, Sarah Rhodes, Julie Ryder and Kevin Murray.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jessica Hemmings•  6  Textiles, Textiles Design, Globalization And Postcolonial Studies, Postcolonial TheoryBrettchenweben. Eine Anleitung Die Broschüre enthält eine Anleitung zum Brettchenweben, wie sie auch für die Beschreibung der Brettchengewebe vom prähistorischen Salzbergwerk Hallstatt und im Rahmen der Lehrveranstaltung Experimentelle Archäologie der Universität Wien... moreDie Broschüre enthält eine Anleitung zum Brettchenweben, wie sie auch für die Beschreibung der Brettchengewebe vom prähistorischen Salzbergwerk Hallstatt und im Rahmen der Lehrveranstaltung Experimentelle Archäologie der Universität Wien verwendet wird.Der Archäologiekoffer Brettchenweben wurde 2003 für das Oberösterreichische Landesmuseum erarbeitet.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karina Grömer•  10  Experimental Archaeology, Textiles, Material Culture Studies, Textiles DesignConcept to CreationSave to LibraryDownloadby Tanya  Dove•  9  Design, Fashion design, Collection Development, Textiles DesignSartorial Identity: Early Modern Japanese Textile Patterns and the Afterlife of Ogata KorinThrough the example of Ogata Kōrin (1658– 1716), one of the most representative painters of Japan's Edo period (1603– 1868), this essay examines how the public identities of artists could be shaped by pattern catalogues for textiles, or... moreThrough the example of Ogata Kōrin (1658– 1716), one of the most representative painters of Japan's Edo period (1603– 1868), this essay examines how the public identities of artists could be shaped by pattern catalogues for textiles, or hinagata bon. Published in large numbers using inexpensive mono-chromatic prints on paper, hinagata bon were regular best sellers, easily accessible to a broad public readership. Between the early and late 1700s, Kōrin's name appeared dozens of times in relation to a specific set of designs for garments, called " Kōrin patterns " (Kōrin moyō or Kōrin mon'yō), which adopted and transformed key aspects of his painting mode. Such designs significantly determined Kōrin's popular reception during the later years of his life and after, illustrating the cultural potency of hinagata bon, and fashion in general, during the early modern period in Japan.Save to LibraryDownloadby Frank Feltens•  5  Textiles, Textiles Design, Edo-period Japan, FashionDesign Responsibility and Sustainable Design as Refl ective Practice: An Educational ChallengeAn important element in design education is to prepare students for the reality of the profession. Often these students question their ability and power to infl uence industry and commerce, especially when it comes to proposing innovative... moreAn important element in design education is to prepare students for the reality of the profession.Often these students question their ability and power to infl uence industry andcommerce, especially when it comes to proposing innovative and sustainable solutions.This paper discusses how the notion of design responsibility can be integrated in designeducation, describing ways of training and encouraging students to become responsibleand sustainability-oriented designers. Using examples from the curriculum of the KoldingSchool of Design in Denmark, we make a case for employing both practice-based andtheory-based learning approaches to promote a critical and refl ective design practice. Furthermore,we argue for the value of teaching design responsibility to imbue design studentswith the knowledge and confi dence that sustainable design thinking and the designer canmake a difference.Save to LibraryDownloadby vibeke  riisberg•  4  Aesthetics, Design education, Sustainability in Higher Education, Textiles DesignSecrets d'ateliers, l'ornement Art nouveauSecrets d'ateliers, l'ornement Art nouveau, Bruxelles, Editions du musée Horta, 2020 Secrets of the studios, Art Nouveau ornament, Bruxelles, éditions du musée Horta, 2020 The Horta Museum’s spring 2020 exhibition is dedicated to... moreSecrets d'ateliers, l'ornement Art nouveau, Bruxelles, Editions du musée Horta, 2020Secrets of the studios, Art Nouveau ornament, Bruxelles, éditions du musée Horta, 2020 The Horta Museum’s spring 2020 exhibition is dedicated to ornamentation from the Art Nouveau era. The real question is why such a subject is so decisive in this period straddling the 19th and 20th centuries: a point of time in the history of art that is exalted right across Europe while crystallizing into patterns so varied that it is sometimes difficult to see a coherent style. It is the last moment of grace of interior decoration, a blazing sunset before ornamentation falls into disgrace.Save to LibraryDownloadby Benjamin Zurstrassen•  7  Textiles Design, Art Nouveau, Theory of ornament, History of OrnamentEl melhfa. Drapés féminins du Maroc saharienSave to LibraryDownloadby Claire Mitatre•  6  Women's Studies, Textiles, History of Textiles, Textiles DesignHANDBOOK OF YARN PRODUCTIONSave to LibraryDownloadby Mimoza Ismajli•  14  Textiles, Textiles Design, Smart Textile, Textile EngineeringDutch wax-resist textiles: Roger Gerards, creative director of Vlisco, in conversation with Jessica HemmingsThe transnational identity of wax-resist textiles emerges from the numerous cultures that have in the past, and continue today, to identify with wax resist cloth. Present-day Indonesia has a history of refined wax-resist cloth production... moreThe transnational identity of wax-resist textiles emerges from the numerous cultures that have in the past, and continue today, to identify with wax resist cloth. Present-day Indonesia has a history of refined wax-resist cloth production known as batik. During Dutch colonization of the region, batik production was taken up in the Netherlands, as well as other textile manufacturing centres such as Manchester, England, intended for trade with the islands. (Kent 2008: 12) But the market proved unsuccessful. Aesthetic concerns are often cited as the reason for this failure, with the presence of ‘veins’ of dye on the cloth occurring during mechanical production deemed inferior by a market familiar with the subtleties of hand production. (Picton 2001) But taxation imposed, ironically, by the Dutch government, to protect the value of cloth produced in the islands is also cited as a reason why importing cloth to the region was a marketing failure. (Hobbs 2008 and Vergès 2014) Instead, the textiles found a welcome reception in West Africa, becoming symbols of national pride associated with independence gained by a number of nations in the late 1950s and 1960s. The Dutch company Vlisco has been designing and manufacturing wax-resist cloth since the late nineteenth century for the African market. (Arts 2012) Based in Helmond near Eindhoven, Vlisco today produces wax-resist textiles that are sold globally. In this chapter Roger Gerards, creative director of Vlisco, discusses the company’s brand identity, speculates on the reasons for Vlisco’s longevity and proposes that fashion, by default, always seeks out the unfamiliar.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jessica Hemmings•  6  Indonesia, Printed Textiles, Textiles Design, Diaspora and transnationalism"Matelasse" Kumaşlar ve Özellikleri - "Matelasse" Fabrics and PropertiesÖzet Tekstil, ilk hammaddeden ürüne ve kullanım talimatlarına kadar tüm süreçleri kapsayan çok geniş bir kavramdır ve en temel ihtiyaçtan moda akımlarına, teknolojik gelişmelere göre şekillenen ürünler sunmaktadır. Her kullanım alanı... moreÖzet Tekstil, ilk hammaddeden ürüne ve kullanım talimatlarına kadar tüm süreçleri kapsayan çok geniş bir kavramdır ve en temel ihtiyaçtan moda akımlarına, teknolojik gelişmelere göre şekillenen ürünler sunmaktadır. Her kullanım alanı yapı, biçim, doku, görünüm vb. farklılıklar gerektirmektedir. Böylece ortaya çıkan üretim ve malzeme çeşitliliğinin her kesimde tanınabilirliği, karakteristik özellikleri doğrultusunda geliştirilen özel sınıflama ve isimlendirmelerle sağlanmaktadır. Tekstil sektöründe bazı ürünler üretim anında kendine has özelliklere sahip olmakta, bazıları bitim işlemleri veya dikiş gibi tekniklerle son ürün haline gelmektedir. Günümüzde teknolojik sistemler sayesinde üretim süreçlerinde şekillenen ve bu yönüyle yorganlama veya kapitone terimlerinden ayrılan Matelasse kumaşlar, iki kumaş katı arasında dolgu malzemesi kullanılarak üretilen, kalın, bileşik yapılardır. Matelasse terimi, Marsilya (Fransa) eyaletinin geleneksel el sanatı olan ve yorganlama tekniği ile yapılan kapitonelerin taklit edilmesi ile üretilmiş kumaşlar için kullanılmış ve bu kumaşlar kadın giysilerinin bir parçası olarak iç cepliklerde değerlendirilmiştir. Popülerliği artan ve oldukça dikkat çeken bu kumaş, moda ürününe dönüştürülerek önce iç giyimde daha sonra birçok giyside tercih edilir hale gelmiş, hızlı üretimi için jakarlı sistemler geliştirilmiştir. Farklı fonksiyonlarda kullanılmak üzere fiziki ve teknik özellikleri değerlendirilen kumaş, çeşitli versiyonlarla üretilerek patentleri alınmıştır. Hatta bu patent bilgileri ünlü modacılar tarafından ultra düzeyde geliştirilerek koleksiyonlarda kullanılmasına ve marka yüzü olmasına rağmen literatürde üretim süreçleri ve teknik açıdan ele alan araştırmaya pek rastlanmamaktadır. Bu yönde üretim yapan işletmelerde ise kapitone, pike örgü, torba örgü gibi çeşitli isimlerle anılmaktadır. Ortak terim kullanımını sağlamak, üretim ve teknik özellikleri ile örneklemek amacıyla ele alınan bu çalışmada; rölyef/hacimli yüzey, zengin desen olanakları, yumuşak doku özellikleri ile kullanım alanı artan Matelasse kumaşlar, dokuma ve örme kumaş gruplarında incelenmiştir. Literatür ve saha çalışması ile Matelasse kumaşların tarihteki yeri, teknik özellikleri, üretim yöntemleri vb. hakkında elde edilen bilgiler değerlendirilmiş, teknik analizleri yapılarak kumaş simülasyonları hazırlanmıştır. Abstract: Textile is a very wide concept that covers all processes ranging from the first raw material to the product and instructions for use, and offers products from the most basic need to fashion trends, which are shaped according to the technological developments. Each area of use requires differences such as structure, shape, texture, appearance, etc. Thus, the recognition of the production and material diversity in every segment of the society is ensured by special classifications and nomenclature developed in line with its characteristic features. Some products in the textile industry have unique features at the time of production, while some turn into end products with techniques such as finishing processes or sewing. Today, Matelasse fabrics, which are shaped in production processes thanks to technological systems and separated from quilting terms in this respect, are thick, composite structures produced by using filling material between two fabric layers. The term Matelasse was used for fabrics produced by imitation of quilts made by quilting technique, which is the traditional handicraft of the province of Marseille (France), and these fabrics were evaluated in inner pockets as part of women's clothing. This fabric, which is increasing in popularity and attracting attention, has been transformed into a fashion product, hasinitially become preferred in underwear and then in many garments, and jacquard systems have been developed for its rapid production. The fabric, whose physical and technical properties have been evaluated for use in different functions, has been produced in various versions and patents have been obtained. In fact, although this patent information has been developed at a superior level and used in collections by famous fashion designers and it has a brand face, there is not much research in the literature that deals with production processes and technical aspects. In companies producing in this direction, it is known by various names such as quilting, pique knitting and bag knitting. In this study, which was conducted in order to ensure the use of common terms and exemplify them with their production and technical characteristics, Matelasse fabrics, the usage area of which increased with relief / bulky surface, rich pattern possibilities, soft texture properties, were examined in woven and knitted fabric groups. With the literature and field work, the information obtained about Matelasse fabrics' place in history, technical features, production methods etc. was evaluated, and fabric simulations were prepared by making technical analyses. Keywords: Matelasse, textile, weaving, knittinghttps://rssstudies.com/files/rss_arsiv/83f1b77b-d61f-40ad-95db-1c078f3011e3.pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Fatma Nur Başaran•  5  Textiles Design, Knitting, Weaving, Weave FabricLIFE STYLE – Tendencie súčasného dizajnu:  Dizajn kompozitných materiálov tužených prírodnými vláknami (autoreferát dizertačnej práce)ABSTRACT My presented work addresses the issues of natural fiber reinforced visual composites application and usage. I focused on their design and development, in accordance with the demands to be met for their future industrial... moreABSTRACTMy presented work addresses the issues of natural fiber reinforced visual composites application and usage. I focused on their design and development, in accordance with the demands to be met for their future industrial manufacturing: 1 / visual formal and aesthetic requirements of their interior application; 2 / all standard material requirements (e.g. mechanical resistance, light stability, abrasion resistance, flame resistance, etc.); 3 / sustainability requirements in ecological, economic and social terms (i.e. local production based on existing production capacities and logistics chains).In the first steps, I developed natural fiber reinforced visual composites for automotive interiors. Currently, technical fiber composites are used in this field, but they are hidden under another material – a decorative and protection layer. This results in increased financial and material burdens of their production and subsequent liquidation. Application of natural fiber reinforced visual composites in this sector presumes the fulfillment of the normatives, as they are consistent regarding their construction and processing. Herein I present some approaches of textile designer to achieve the desired final effect: the conjunction of fulfilling formal and aesthetic demands set on the material while keeping its natural character, and concurrently meeting the technical requirements (norms) set for the purpose and area of use. In the second steps I propose unconventional approaches and solutions a textile designer can offer when creating designs aimed to capture and utilize the advantage of intrinsic properties of the material, which are commonly regarded as its disadvantage or limitation (e.g. pattern or color change after exposure to UV-light or due to changes of ambient temperature). Moreover, I investigated the potential implications of selected functional pigments. Their application renders, in addition to attractive luminous color effects, a required added value as flame-retardants. Further I tested the possibility of further visual modifications of proposed natural fiber visual composites by various printing methods. In my thesis I documented the contemporary role and the position of academic research in the promising field of textile design. I also documented the outcomes resulting from the possibilities versus requirements, regarding the specific contributions of textile designer in the current circumstances.These lines of evidence led me to analyze the contemporary role of the textile designer. His/her role on one hand reflects the historical development of the changing demands, on the other it encounters the dynamic changes in the requirements of transformational processes within the geopolitical context of industrial textile production. The analyses of historically changing demands on the textile designers role enable a better understanding and definition of his/her tasks in present, as well as of my own role and responsibilities in implementing the design proposals for natural fiber visual composites. I discuss the new momentum for inducing a change of this traditional perception. I also focus on the outlining of the emerging changes regarding the requirements on designers orientation regarding material and process knowledge. Such a comprehensive knowledge and skill base has not been so far required. However, it is essential for the implementation of all necessary requirements and measures – e.g. of overall sustainability. It is important to integrate these new trends particularly into the programs of higher education.  The success of graduates will depend on their skill to address current and future requirements of the practice. I also emphasize that teaching/education itself will require a multidisciplinary and translational approach. Solving open issues of research, developing practice requiring the designer’s ability for effective inter- and trans-disciplinary communication and collaboration with other professionals. The integration of textile design traditional knowledge, as well as of basic knowledge of the relevant normatives should be integrated into the programs of higher education. Many of the mentioned can be efficiently implemented using domestic and foreign grant funding schemes of the doctoral fellowships.ABSTRAKTV práci som sa zamerala na riešenie otázok využitia prírodnými vláknami tužených vizuálnych kompozitov. Zamerala som sa na ich dizajn a vývoj tak, aby budúci priemyselne vyrábaný produkt/materiál spĺňal zároveň: 1/ vizuálne formálno-estetické požiadavky kladené na jeho expozíciu v interiéry; 2/ všetky normatívne požiadavky (ako napr. mechanickú odolnosť, svetlostálosť, oderuvzdornosť, nehorľavosť, atď.); 3/ požiadavky trvalej udržateľnosti z ekologického, ekonomického a sociálneho hľadiska (t.j. produkovateľnosť v lokálnych podmienkach, na báze existujúcich produkčných a logistických reťazcov).V prvých krokoch som vyvíjala prírodnými vláknami tužené vizuálne kompozity s uplatnením v  automotive interiéroch. Technické vláknité kompozity sa v tejto oblasti používajú i v súčasnosti, sú však prekryté ďalším materiálom/vrstvou tvoriacou dekor, čo o.i. zvyšuje finančnú a materiálovú záťaž ich výroby a aj neskoršej likvidácie; ich aplikácia v tomto sektore tvorí predpoklad úspešného splnenia vyžadovaných normatív i konštrukčne a procesne zhodných vizuálnych vláknitých kompozitov. V práci demonštrujem postupy, aplikáciou ktorých textilný dizajnér dosiahne požadovaný výsledný efekt: prienik naplnenia formálno-estetických požiadaviek na materiál priznávajúci svoj prírodný pôvod, a zároveň splnenie technických normatív pre účel a oblasť jeho použitia. V ďalších krokoch ilustrujem nekonvenčné prístupy a riešenia textilného dizajnéra, keď pre návrh/tvorbu cielene využívam prirodzené vlastnosti materiálu, bežne považované za jeho nevýhodu, či limitáciu (napr. zmeny farebnosti po expozícii svetlu či teplotným zmenám). Sústredila som sa i na využitie moderných funkčných pigmentov, ktoré okrem zaujímavých svetleno-farebných efektov poskytujú v tejto aplikácii pridanú hodnotu ako retardéry horenia. Testovala som možnosti ďalšej vizuálnej modifikácie navrhnutých prírodnými vláknami tužených vizuálnych kompozitov rôznymi spôsobmi potlače. Vo svojom spracovaní som nielen zdokumentovala reálnu možnosť akademického výskumu v tejto perspektívnej oblasti textilného dizajnu, ale zároveň som dokázala a zdokladovala možnosti špecifických prínosov textilného dizajnéra v podmienkach, ktoré kladie súčasná doba.Vyššie uvedené skutočnosti ma viedli k analýze úloh textilného dizajnéra v súčasnosti. Tieto jednak reflektujú historický vývin meniacich sa požiadaviek kladených na textilného dizajnéra, v súčasnosti však podliehajú dynamickým zmenám v dôsledku procesov transformácie charakteru a podmienok priemyselnej výroby v geopolitickom kontexte. Teoretický historický rozbor meniacich sa požiadaviek na náplň práce textilného dizajnéra viedli k lepšiemu pochopeniu a definovaniu jeho úloh v súčasnosti, a tak aj mojej úlohy a kompetencií pri realizácii návrhov prírodnými vláknami tužených vizuálnych kompozitov. Okrem analýzy meniaceho sa postavenia textilného dizajnéra vyplývajúcej z historických súvislostí jeho úloh, rozoberám aj nové impulzy nútiace k zmene tradičného ponímania tejto funkcie. Zároveň načrtávam, že nastupujúce zmeny v požiadavkách na textilné materiály a produkty – a teda aj na ich návrh/dizajn, vyžadujú od dizajnéra orientáciu v čoraz širšom spektre odborných, materiálových a procesných vedomostí a zručností. Tieto vytvárajú komplexný základ znalostí doteraz v tejto miere a rozsahu nepožadovaných. V konečnom dôsledku však umožňujú realizáciu nevyhnutných dobou kladených požiadaviek - o.i. trvalej udržateľnosti. Podčiarkujem, že tento nový trend, resp. dobou generované nové požiadavky, je nevyhnutné integrovať najmä do programov vysokoškolského vzdelávania, nakoľko úspešnosť absolventov bude závisieť od ich pripravenosti (t.j. schopnosti) riešiť aktuálne a budúce požiadavky praxe. Zároveň zdôrazňujem, že požiadavky doby, a teda aj výuky, jednoznačne vyžadujú multidisciplinárny a translačný prístup. Riešenie úloh VaV ako i výrobnej praxe vyžaduje schopnosť efektívnej inter- a trans- disciplinárnej komunikácie a spolupráce dizajnéra s ostatnými odborníkmi, ktorej predpokladom je integrácia klasických vedomostí oblasti textilného dizajnu a základných znalostí príslušných normatív už do vzdelávacieho procesu. Mnohé uvedené aspekty možno efektívne implementovať využitím domácich a zahraničných grantových schém pre financovanie medzinárodných štipendijných pobytov doktorandov.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zuzana Sebekova•  8  Design Research, Textiles Design, Design-based research, Textile DesignEstampas na tecelagem brasileira: da origem à originalidadeThe Brazilian textile industry reached its apogee in the period 1950-1970. The widespread impact it made in a climate of euphoric nationalism, led to this sector being turned into a means of strengthening feelings about the existence of a... moreThe Brazilian textile industry reached its apogee in the period 1950-1970. The widespread impact it made in a climate of euphoric nationalism, led to this sector being turned into a means of strengthening feelings about the existence of a particular Brazilian national identity, which it achieved by producing printed designs that were genuinelyBrazilian. On the basis of this supposition, this research project is devoted to exploring the way nationalistic and patriotic feelings have been instilled and spread through images, by employing a methodology that mainly involves investigating the inner processes of industrialisation and the observation of the promotion of the textile industry in that period. The study seeks to support the view that the feelings that have been evoked, arise more from an e ective discourse than any authentic or genuine creation that has taken place in this sector.Keywords: textile industry: history; textile design: printed textile; design.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luz  Neira García•  5  Brazilian Studies, Printed Textiles, Textiles Design, Textile DesignAncient Carpet Fragments: Carl Johan Lamm Collection Re-Examined: A Weaving Art Museum ExhibitionNotwithstanding more than 100 years of investigation and the collection of a significant amount of data, little positive provenance information has yet emerged to pinpoint the origins of most Oriental carpet designs. The author of this... moreNotwithstanding more than 100 years of investigation and the collection of a significant amount of data, little positive provenance information has yet emerged to pinpoint the origins of most Oriental carpet designs.  The author of this paper, Jack Cassin, presents new commentary and evidence to begin to understand this situation. Progress has been made on several fronts particularly the recognition these designs did not exist in a vacuum and must be studied by taking other decorative arts into account. Clues garnered from diverse objects such as pottery and other findings from pre-historic archaeological excavations; metalwork from the bronze age and later periods; calligraphy from 9th century; architecture beginning in the 12th century; miniature painting from the 13th century and book-binding and wood-work from the 14th century have encouraged a number of important insights.  However, the origins of the designs found on historic and later complex patterned weavings still remain mysterious and undetermined. Obviously the weavings themselves hold the greatest store of facts to assist in unraveling these questions and it is there more concentration must be applied.  This can be done in several ways. The first is by the employment of the various analytic techniques developed by cutting-edge forensic sciences. Utilization of these new tools will facilitate the identification of important key elements that have hereto remained hidden. Once this is accomplished the sources of the raw materials and their various production methods will become identified. Collating these results will provide statistical profiles and examples, even those that formerly appeared unrelated, could then be grouped together based on verifiable criteria.  These scientific findings, rather than the less positive comparisons of technique and design used today, will definitely improve chances for solving provenance questions. Similar intensive studies of the existent raw materials like wool, dyestuffs and water supplies, which are still present in the eastern Mediterranean areas where many of these historic weaving are believed to have produced, is a second area of inquiry. Collecting and comparing these results to those gathered from the weavings themselves will undoubtedly add other valuable criteria for these profiles. In conjunction with scientific field investigation, a far more intensive search, both above and below ground level for historic weavings will also add new examples to the relatively small number now known and likewise assist in answering these questions. However the third and perhaps the easiest - a re-examination of the small number of known historic weavings – can also yield new findings and discoveries. Since the first two are beyond the possibilities of this writer and The Weaving Art Museum at the present time, this third method has been chosen to present our Sixth Exhibition “A New Look At Some Ancient Knotted-Pile Carpet Fragments”.  The examples selected for this inquiry come from the largest and most comprehensive grouping of early historic cut-pile carpets - The Lamm Collection.  Both individually and as a group these wondrous little fragments provide a valuable source of material to answer the intriguing question: What were the origins of Oriental carpet designs?Save to LibraryDownloadby Jack Cassin•  11  Textiles, History of Textiles, Textiles Design, Ancient TextilesACCRA TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY USE OF BATIK AND TIE-DYE IN INTERIOR DECORATION IN ACCRAThe purpose of the study is to find the need to introduction the use of batik and tie-dye in interior decoration in Accra by stating the various ways batik and tie-dye can be used when decorating a home, the importance of soft furnishing... moreThe purpose of the study is to find the need to introduction the use of batik and tie-dye in interior decoration in Accra by stating the various ways batik and tie-dye can be used when decorating a home, the importance of soft furnishing when decorating the interior of a home and the characteristics of modern international textiles design.The research enlightens the public on the importance and benefits of the use of batik and tie-dye to Ghanaians and textiles designers in Ghana and emphasizes on the possible modifications that can be applied to the style and textile design of batik and tie-dye to be used for interior decorating products to suit modern design in interior decoration.A sample technique selected constituted three major institutions and stake holders in interior decoration. A questionnaire was set based on the research topic and a survey is conducted to conclude on the possible use of batik and tie-dye in interior decoration.The stakeholders agreed to patronizing batik and tie-dye if the designs are unique and modernized. They also agreed that they faced challenges when using batik and tie-dye and recommended possible solutions to these challenges.Save to LibraryDownloadby NANA YAA OWUSU-BRAFI•  2  Textiles Design, Fashion ‘Textile Form and Counter Form: The Revival and Reinterpretation of Composite Knit and Crochet Constructions 1930s-1940s "‘Textile Form and Counter Form: The Revival and Reinterpretation of Composite Knit and Crochet Constructions of the 1930s -1940’sSave to Libraryby Carol  Brown•  11  Textiles, History of Textiles, Knitted Textiles, Textiles Design'We Are Disruptive': New Practices for Textile & Fashion Designers in the Supply ChainSave to LibraryDownloadby Clara Vuletich•  4  Design for Social Innovation, Textiles Design, Sustainable Design, Sustainable Fashion Textiles DesignSustaining Nubian Symbols through Textile DesignNubian heritage Semiotics Textile Design Digital textile design facilitates the transformation of textile surfaces, allowing designers to explore new ways to perfect their craft. The aim of this study is to investigate how the creation of... moreNubian heritage Semiotics Textile Design Digital textile design facilitates the transformation of textile surfaces, allowing designers to explore new ways to perfect their craft. The aim of this study is to investigate how the creation of modern designs inspired by Nubian symbols can retain a special appeal to contemporary audience while preserving the wealth of symbolic meanings associated with the old Nubian heritage. To that end, the research is employing Nubian symbols in the designs and a qualitative methodology through questionnaires. The latter was also used to showcase twenty-four designs and contact participants with specialization and from different cultural backgrounds/ citizenship (i.e. Nubians, non-Nubian), in an attempt to assess whether there is a difference of opinions among experts as far as succeeding to sustain the Nubian symbols by using textile design and computer graphic software is concerned.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nahed  Baba•  2  Textiles Design, Nubian SymbolsÇÖZGÜLÜ ÖRMECİLİKTE İPLİK DEĞİŞKENLERİ KONUSUNDA GÖRÜŞ VE DEĞERLENDİRMELER/ OPINIONS AND ASSESSMENTS ABOUT YARN FACTOR IN WARP KNITTING  ABSTRACTSave to LibraryDownloadby Başak Özkendirci•  4  Textiles Design, Textile Technology, Warp knitted fabric, Warp KnittingFancy yarns Their manufacture and applicationSave to LibraryDownloadby Mimoza Ismajli•  8  Fashion design, Industrial Design, Textiles Design, Textile EngineeringThe Art of Prehistoric Textile Making. The development of craft traditions and clothing in Central EuropeTextile crafts, and weaving in particular, have contributed much to the overall development of technology. Looms were invented in the Neolithic and represent the first ‘machines’ of human history. Essential goods for daily use, especially... moreTextile crafts, and weaving in particular, have contributed much to the overall development of technology. Looms were invented in the Neolithic and represent the first ‘machines’ of human history. Essential goods for daily use, especially clothing, as well as utilitarian textiles, ostentatious objects for display and luxury items were produced with this craft. Textiles were valuable, as can be inferred from the recycling of fabrics. Worn out garments were used as binders, packaging and even as a dressing material in prehistoric times. Clothing, however, not only offered protection against the elements – even in prehistoric times textiles and jewellery were more than just simply means to dress – they are an essential feature of every culture. In the past as well as today, clothing represents an important non-verbal means of communication and conveys aspects of identity about the wearer such as age, gender, social status and group memberships.This book is dedicated to historians, costume designers, archaeologists, and anyone interested in handcraft and artisanship. The temporal and geographical scope of this investigation is the Neolithic to Late Iron Age of Central Europe, which is the period before the introduction of writing. The book ends with the Roman occupation in Central Europe. Austrian finds and sites as well as those of neighbouring countries are the primary focus.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karina Grömer and +2Helga Rösel-MautendorferRegina Hofmann-de Keijzer•  59  Semiotics, Sociology, Experimental Archaeology, Prehistoric ArchaeologyCircular Textile Design: Old Myths and New ModelsPractice-based textile research has an important role to play in understanding the potential for material flows for all design disciplines. We know that designers need to work with circularity principles within a sustainability framework... morePractice-based textile research has an important role to play in understanding the potential for material flows for all design disciplines. We know that designers need to work with circularity principles within a sustainability framework and must fully understand the technical and biological cycles. Yet innovation in the field has shown us that for textile designers, circular design also needs to consider how these cycles can interconnect and how understanding the speed of cycles is important too. This chapter presents four projects – developed through interdisciplinary projects with scientists and industry experts – that propose new strategies for impacting our future design decisions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr Kate Goldsworthy and +1Rebecca Earley•  6  Design Research, Textiles Design, Sustainable Design, Product Lifecycle ManagementTHE USE OF CAD/CAM FOR TEXTILE DESIGNS AND FABRICSThe paper illustrates the role of CAD/CAM technology in developing virtual textile design on the computer screen. First, it was created the shape of the symbol "Flower of Life" from Sacred Geometry by using the CAD system ASCON Kompas for... moreThe paper illustrates the role of CAD/CAM technology in developing virtual textile design on the computer screen. First, it was created the shape of the symbol "Flower of Life" from Sacred Geometry by using the CAD system ASCON Kompas for the design of shapes and the graphic software Adobe Photoshop for colour combinations. Then, we drew few graphic sketches of garments on which we applied the textile design "Flower of life". In order to obtain fabric-manufacturing orders, the image was processed with a specific design software for fabric: EAT DesignScope Victor. At last, we converted the design into a fabric by using the weaving machine Smit Textile GS900 Jacquard Loom.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zlatina Kazlacheva and +1Julieta Ilieva•  6  Woven Textiles, Textiles Design, Textile Design, Sacred GeometryCostura y Cultura. Aproximaciones sociológicas sobre el vestir.Relegada al rincón de la subjetividad y el estilo, la indumentaria ha cargado durante décadas el estigma de devenir diseño sin el debido reconocimiento de los demás diseños. Su carácter temporal, su sospechosa cercanía a una autoría... moreRelegada al rincón de la subjetividad y el estilo, la indumentaria ha cargado durante décadas el estigma de devenir diseño sin el debido reconocimiento de los demás diseños. Su carácter temporal, su sospechosa cercanía a una autoría artística y al flujo pasatista de la moda ha impedido durante un largo tiempo su inclusión sin reparos en el mundo de los diseñadores. Algo de lo inefable se cierne en esa resistencia. Quizás por converger en la moda y en la indumentaria un conjunto de fenómenos sociales que, muy lejos de la frivolidad, son visiblemente serios y complejos, y por cierto nada nuevos. En ese sentido, el haber sido objeto privilegiado de reflexión de la teoría social ya da una pista muy clara en relación a la magnitud y el evidente carácter social que recubre a la moda en las sociedades modernas. El orden simbólico de una sociedad, la construcción de los géneros, las diferencias sociales, las ideas de uso, pervivencia y obsolescencia, el protagonismo del cuerpo, la relación entre individualidad y grupalidad, la irrepetibilidad y la seriación, la unicidad y la tipología de uso, son un abanico muy extenso de problemas que cruzan a este fascinante objeto de estudio. El libro que aquí se presenta es el resultado de ese rico y complejo proceso reflexivo. Invito a leer con detenimiento este logrado volumen (Verónica Devalle).Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniela Lucena•  16  Fashion design, Fashion Theory, Contemporary Art, Textiles DesignTHE GOLDEN AND FIBONACCI GEOMETRY IN FASHION AND TEXTILE DESIGNThe proportions of the Golden ratio and Fibonacci sequence associate harmony and beauty and by this reason they are used in design. The paper presents the use of geometrical forms and tilings, created on the base the Golden ratio and... moreThe proportions of the Golden ratio and Fibonacci sequence associate harmony and beauty and by this reason they are used in design. The paper presents the use of geometrical forms and tilings, created on the base the Golden ratio and Fibonacci numbers, in fashion and textile design. The forms and tilings are the Golden and Fibonacci spirals, the Golden and Fibonacci series tiling with squares, the Golden tiling with triangles, Fibonacci tiling with triangles – Fibonacci Rose, etc. For creation of successful aesthetic fashion and textile design projects these kinds of forms can be used in different combinations and color decisions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julieta Ilieva and +2Zlatina KazlachevaJulieta Ilieva•  12  Fashion design, Textiles, Textiles Design, Textile DesignDiseños mágicos: análisis de los diseños con rombos en los huipiles mayas de Chiapas.  (texto completo) 2a edición, 2018Diseños mágicos es un libro que introduce a los lectores al asombroso mundo de la iconografía mesoamericana tomando como punto de partida los diseños con rombos en los textiles mayas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alla Kolpakova•  10  Iconography, Textiles, Visual Semiotics, History of TextilesIron-Age Finger-Loop Braiding. Finds from the Hallstatt Salt Mine. In: Archaeological Textiles Review 57, 2015, 33-40The salt mine at Hallstatt in Austria is known for its rich organic finds from the middle Bronze (1600-1200 BC) and early Iron Age (Hallstatt Period, c. 800-400 BC), including wood, fur, leather, tree bast and textiles. Hallstatt... moreThe salt mine at Hallstatt in Austria is known for its rich organic finds from the middle Bronze (1600-1200 BC) and early Iron Age (Hallstatt Period, c. 800-400 BC), including wood, fur, leather, tree bast and textiles.  Hallstatt presents a unique situation, and the textiles found there allow us to study in detail the development of textile technology in the period from 1500 to 400 BC.Among the narrow fabrics there are two fragments which were made using braiding techniques. In the present article, we will discuss different braiding techniques and explore the possibility of tracing the fragments back to an early version of loop braiding.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karina Grömer and +1Katrin Kania•  28  Archaeology, Experimental Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Celtic StudiesDifferent solutions for a simple design: New experiments on tablet weave HallTex 152 from the salt mine Hallstatt (M. Karisto, K. Grömer)The Natural History Museum Vienna undertakes extensive research at the site Hallstatt, comprising not only interdisciplinary analysis of the finds and the contexts but also Experimental Archaeology. Here we focus on a tablet woven band... moreThe Natural History Museum Vienna undertakes extensive research at the site Hallstatt, comprising not only interdisciplinary analysis of the finds and the contexts but also Experimental Archaeology.Here we focus on a tablet woven band (HallTex 152), which seems to be a very simple design at the first glimpse. The pattern of the band – lozenges with cross-filling -  is also present at other Hallstatt period artefacts such as pottery or bronze sheet objects. We present seven different ways to recreate the pattern. Detailed experiments were carried out with different threading concepts for the weaving tablets and different weaving mechanisms and turning sequences. The different solutions to create that design were discussed in comparison with the the original textile.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karina Grömer and +1Maikki Karisto•  19  Experimental Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Textiles, Material Culture StudiesSabremos Bordar | "We will know how to embroider"Sabremos bordar es una tesis de grado de Diseño Textil que, como el nombre lo sugiere, procura conjugar desde esta disciplina -el Diseño- dos temáticas: el bordado a mano y la identidad nacional. Al inicio de este proyecto nos dedicamos... moreSabremos bordar es una tesis de grado de Diseño Textil que, como el nombre lo sugiere, procura conjugar desde esta disciplina -el Diseño- dos temáticas: el bordado a mano y la identidad nacional.Al inicio de este proyecto nos dedicamos a estudiar y ensayar el bordado a mano así como sus diferentes técnicas y posibles combinaciones. A través de diversas vías constatamos que tiende al desuso. Esta tendencia, que está motivada por  múltiples factores no se limita a esta técnica, sino que se extiende a muchas otras tradicionales. Dado este “diagnóstico de situación”, nuestra propuesta derivó hacia la exploración e investigación de cómo desde el Diseño se puede revalorizar el bordado a mano, a la vez que éste como recurso de ornamentación brinde su calidez, empatía y valor al textil. De esta forma adherimos a la tendencia que se percibe en diferentes proyectos de Diseño por retomar y revalorizar la aplicación de técnicas tradicionales a mano o artesanales.Identificar el posible uso del bordado como recurso comunicacional condujo nuestra investigación hacia el estudio de cómo delimitar ciertos rasgos de una identidad nacional actual.Desde una perspectiva que tuviera en cuenta nuestros valores e idiosincrasias exploramos cómo poner en juego algunos de esos rasgos a través del Diseño de tal forma que se produjera una hibridación entre innovación y tradición.Esta tesis pretende incentivar la implementación y el desarrollo del bordado a mano a través de la innovación en el Diseño de las piezas. La clave es lograr la hibridación de Diseño y bordado en proyectos que realcen algunos rasgos característicos de la identidad nacional.Sabremos bordar is a graduate degree thesis on Textile Design that, as the name evokes, tries to combine, by means of this discipline –Design–, two themes: hand embroidery and nationalidentity.At the beginning of the project, we devoted ourselves to study and practise hand embroidery, as well as its different techniques and possible combinations. Through various methods, we determined that hand embroidery is falling into disuse. This trend, which is motivated by several factors, is not limited only to hand embroidery, but also to many traditional techniques. Due to this “situational diagnosis”, our proposal was led to the examination and research on how Design can give worth, again, to hand embroidery, and, at the same time, can give warmth, empathy and value to the textile as a means of ornamentation. We thus support the trend, seen on severalDesign projects, to retake and give worth to applying handmade or handcrafted traditional techniques.Identifying embroidery as a possible communicational resource led our research towards the study of how to delimit some features of a current national identity. Taking into account our values and idiosyncrasies, we examined how to apply some of these features to Design, in order to make a hybridisation between innovation and tradition.This thesis hopes to promote the application and development of hand embroidery by innovating on the Design of the pieces. The key is accomplishing a hybridisation between the Design and embroidery, on the one hand, and projects that highlight characteristic features of the national identity on the other.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefania Assandri and +1Santiago  Celio Cioli•  20  Design, Textiles, History of Textiles, HybridizationHow I came to MorrisHow I came to MorrisSave to LibraryDownloadby David Mabb•  23  Critical Theory, Aesthetics, Art, Contemporary ArtTURKMEN RUG STUDIES: New Evidence on the Origins of the Salor GolSalor "S" group chuval per square inch are among the most valuable of all oriental carpets. They are coveted, cherished and lauded as the most “important” Turkmen weaving group. However, the author of this paper, Jack Cassin, does not... moreSalor "S" group chuval per square inch are among the most valuable of all oriental carpets. They are coveted, cherished and lauded as the most “important” Turkmen weaving group.However, the author of this paper, Jack Cassin, does not believe any of this, and while recognizing a scant few of these weavings are most likely pre-middle 18th century, and others are definitely beautiful and made of the highest quality materials, he is on record for debunking the “S” group, “Salor”, myth of supremacy in all things Turkmen.THe author has long been interested in trying to unravel the unknown and highly mysterious strands of influence that produced the iconography seen on early, ie pre-19th century, Turkmen weavings and this paper is another attempt to add evidence to decipher these questions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jack Cassin•  9  Textiles, Textiles Design, Islamic Studies, Ancient TextilesNextLast »Related TopicsTextilesFollowFollowingTextile and Fiber ArtFollowFollowingVisual MerchandisingFollowFollowingGlobal SourcingFollowFollowingPrinted TextilesFollowFollowingMobile CommerceFollowFollowingHistory of TextilesFollowFollowingPattern CuttingFollowFollowingCreative Pattern CuttingFollowFollowingTextile DesignFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023