Monash University | Centre for Archaeology, Ancient History and Classics - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Monash UniversityCentre for Archaeology, Ancient History and Classics  All Departments27 Documents27 ResearchersGoddess in the Sheets, Prostitute in the Streets: Examining Public & Private Divisions of Gender in Mesopotamian CitiesThis paper explores the spatial expression of the female gender in early Mesopotamian cities from c. 2334-1595 B.C.E. Gender in Mesopotamia has been widely studied socially but not spatially, and here I aim to provide a consideration of... moreThis paper explores the spatial expression of the female gender in early Mesopotamian cities from c. 2334-1595 B.C.E. Gender in Mesopotamia has been widely studied socially but not spatially, and here I aim to provide a consideration of gender through the framework of a public/private divide. Predominantly, a sensory archaeological methodology is applied to the urban environment as reconstructed by both textual and archaeological sources. This method employs Shepperson’s ‘archaeosensorium’ from Sunlight and Shade in the First Cities (2017) to study identifiable gendered spaces in the Mesopotamian archaeological record. The private sphere is viewed as the proper and preferable domain of women in this period, and sensory analysis of archaeological evidence may point towards a space that heavily restricted access and interaction. Comparatively, the facets of the public sphere examined, including streets and taverns, demonstrate a potential for female agency and subversion in such spaces.Save to Libraryby Georgia Vance•  10  History, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Gender and Sexuality Studies, Sensory archaeologyThe Coffin of Nytamenkhamun: A Case Study of Australia's Encounter with Ancient EgyptThis thesis explores Australia’s encounter with the culture of ancient Egypt through a case study of the coffin of Nytamenkhamun, an ancient Egyptian coffin currently in the collections of Museums Victoria. This thesis first identifies... moreThis thesis explores Australia’s encounter with the culture of ancient Egypt through a case study of the coffin of Nytamenkhamun, an ancient Egyptian coffin currently in the collections of Museums Victoria. This thesis first identifies the main elements of the iconography and surveys the inscriptions on the coffin. Following this, it employs an Object Biography approach to the artefact and explores the role of this coffin in various collections and curatorial narratives over the last century. The study of Nytamenkhamun’s coffin provides an entry point to delve into an analysis of the enduring popularity of ancient Egypt in Australia.Save to Libraryby Alanna Morgan•HistoryThe Golden Days of Jones Lane: A Study of the Mid-Nineteenth Century Artefact Assemblage(This thesis is submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Degree, School of Philosophical, Historical and International Studies, Monash University, October 2018.) Much of Melbourne's... more(This thesis is submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the Bachelor of Arts (Honours) Degree, School of Philosophical, Historical and International Studies, Monash University, October 2018.)    Much of Melbourne's history has been built on the back of the Gold Rush during the 1850s. But what is known of the lives of those living in the city's centre, caught in the bustle of it all? This study's analysis is drawn from the archaeological material of an isolated context that can be reliably dated to before 1855, showcasing at least a decade of occupation on this corner of Jones Lane and Little Lonsdale Street. The excavation undertaken in 2017 by Dr Vincent Clark & Associates has unveiled new insight into the lives of some of Melbourne's earliest citizens, and how they reflect Melbourne's late nineteenth century context. This analysis provides evidence of a thriving home life during this period in Melbourne's development, as well as a good example of an early Melbourne settler’s home in what was an exceedingly culturally diverse neighbourhood, located a block from the infamous Little Lon district. This analysis considers a small selection of artefacts separate from the complete assemblage, as the reliability of a contained context evident in both the archaeology and documentary record provides an opportunity to explore a modern urban collection that may otherwise have been set aside.Save to Libraryby Katerina Karanikas•  5  Historical Archaeology, Australian History, Australian historical archaeology, Archaeology of MelbournePipe Manufacture on the Plains and Experimental Archaeology: Not Just Blowing SmokeSeveral types of smoking pipes have been manufactured and used by native North American peoples throughout later prehistoric and historic times. Although substantial information exists on the styles of these pipes, very little is known... moreSeveral types of smoking pipes have been manufactured and used by native North American peoples throughout later prehistoric and historic times. Although substantial information exists on the styles of these pipes, very little is known about their methods of manufacture. This paper examines one particular style of pipe, the Florence Pipe, associated with the proto-Wichita Great Bend peoples. A block of Minnesota pipestone was manufactured into a pipe using stone tools replicated after those found in the Robb Collection from central Kansas. This archaeological assemblage was proposed to have been used in the manufacture of Florence pipes, which was confirmed through use-wear analysis of the collection. The steps and labor requirements for the creation of Florence pipes are illuminated in this paper in a way that cannot be accomplished through archaeological analysis and use-wear analysis alone.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah Chandlee•Ancient Egyptian Mathematics: Re-examining Problems Nos. 49-52 of the Rhind Mathematical PapyrusThe origins of mathematics are likely older than the oldest cultures known to us today. However, the fact remains that our evidence for early mathematics is found only in ancient written texts, of which only a few examples have survived.... moreThe origins of mathematics are likely older than the oldest cultures known to us today. However, the fact remains that our evidence for early mathematics is found only in ancient written texts, of which only a few examples have survived. Some of the earliest examples of mathematical texts come from ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia. This paper looks at the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus (c. 1575 – 1540 BCE), reinvestigating four geometrical problems (Nos. 49-52). Specifically, I retranslate each mathematical problem, as well as adding to the current scholarship by providing a transliteration and commentary for the reader, followed by a mathematical analysis of these ancient calculations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah Chandlee•Thesmophorian Influences in Rome: One, Two or Three Festivals?The Thesmophoria was the pre-eminent women’s festival in Greece, and was celebrated widely to the furthest reaches of the Greek world. A festival of fertility in honour of the Thesmophorian goddesses, Demeter and Kore, the extant ancient... moreThe Thesmophoria was the pre-eminent women’s festival in Greece, and was celebrated widely to the furthest reaches of the Greek world. A festival of fertility in honour of the Thesmophorian goddesses, Demeter and Kore, the extant ancient source material is predominantly in Greek. It was, however, certainly known to Roman authors, and is mentioned in a small number of Latin sources, including Pliny the Elder.  This paper will investigate whether there is any evidence that the Thesmophoria was ever celebrated in Rome under its Greek form. It will also investigate two festivals that modern scholarship has theorised may have been derived from the Thesmophoria, reimagined for a Roman context: the festival for the Bona Dea, and the annual festival of Ceres. Focusing on the evidence for interrelations between these two festivals and the Thesmophoria, I will argue that the similarities are not superficial, and represent a strong influence by the Thesmophoria on both of these festivals. I will also discuss the reason why there might have been multiple festivals influenced by the Thesmophoria co-existing in Rome. Through a consideration of the chronological and geographical provenance of the evidence for each of these festivals, I will show that these two factors may have been the cause of the apparent duplication of Thesmophoria-like festivals in Rome.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•Eidola: Effigies in the Rites of Adonis-like GodsThe use of effigies of the god is one of the few aspects of rites performed in honour of Tammuz/Dumuzi and Adonis that is prominently recorded in the ancient sources. In the past, research has not focused in this direction, accepting the... moreThe use of effigies of the god is one of the few aspects of rites performed in honour of Tammuz/Dumuzi and Adonis that is prominently recorded in the ancient sources. In the past, research has not focused in this direction, accepting the existence of such effigies as a given without further investigation as to their role and their appearance. This paper will examine the evidence for effigies in the worship of Adonis and Tammuz/Dumuzi. These effigies were associated with the cult and festivals of such deities over a sustained period of time, and over a wide geographical area.  I intend to discuss to what extent it is possible to define the appearance and the composition of these effigies in their various incarnations, given the available evidence. In addition, I will consider the purpose of these effigies, and whether these effigies had analogous or disparate purposes within the contexts of the respective cults with which they were associated.  By so doing, I hope to contribute to the discussion about religious syncretism and cultural influences within the context of ancient women’s ritual, and to steer this discussion in a new direction with a focus on the development and adaptation of the Adonia festival to the needs of the local communities who celebrated it.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•The Sicilian Thesmophoria: A Unique Example of a Classical Festival?The importance of Kore-Persephone in the region of Sicily during the Classical Period is well attested, and there are many literary references linking her mythologically to the region. Amongst the many locations competing for the site of... moreThe importance of Kore-Persephone in the region of Sicily during the Classical Period is well attested, and there are many literary references linking her mythologically to the region. Amongst the many locations competing for the site of the rape of Persephone, Sicily is a popular contender in ancient source material. Given her important links to Sicily, it would be expected that the Thesmophoria festival, held around the Greek world in honour of Demeter and Kore-Persephone and itself closely linked into the myth of the rape, would have been celebrated in Sicily. In this paper, I wish to consider the evidence for the Thesmophoria festival in Sicily, and whether this indicates a significant divergence from the standard scholarly reconstruction of the festival, which is based primarily on Athenian evidence. Following a consideration of the evidence for the worship of Demeter and Kore Thesmophoros in Sicily and Southern Italy, I intend to focus on the two main points where the literary evidence indicates a disparity between the Sicilian and Athenian festivals; that is, the length of the festival, and the shape of the aidoia cakes offered to the goddesses. The literary evidence will be adumbrated, and archaeological evidence and evidence of the festival from elsewhere in the Greek world will also be taken into account. In so doing, I hope to establish whether modern scholarship has overemphasised the importance of the Athenian model or whether the Sicilian Thesmophoria was indeed a unique version of the widespread festival.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•The Identity of Isis in the Graeco-Roman World: Immutable or Mercurial?The goddess Isis commanded widespread worship and devotion throughout the ancient world. The identity of Isis provides examples of both continuity and change when she leaves the solely Egyptian sphere and spreads throughout the... moreThe goddess Isis commanded widespread worship and devotion throughout the ancient world. The identity of Isis provides examples of both continuity and change when she leaves the solely Egyptian sphere and spreads throughout the Graeco-Roman world, interacting with, and being changed by, other divine figures. In this paper, I will investigate, with reference to a number of local incarnations of Isis throughout the Graeco-Roman world, whether some parts of her identity were immutable. In this way, it will be hoped to shed some light on the vexing issue of whether Isis was always considered a ‘foreign’ goddess by the Romans, or whether she had become a Roman goddess – a point on which ancient literary source are conflicted. The identification of Isis worship is a complicated undertaking, and often fraught with difficulties. Therefore, the focus of this paper will be on iconographic representations of Isis, and the way in which these can be used to demonstrate continuity and change in her identity throughout the Graeco-Roman world. Through looking at examples of how Isis was depicted in various time periods and geographical locations, potential changes in the identity of Isis can be contemplated.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•Terrae Miribili : Classical Allusions in the works of Lewis CarrollCharles Lutwidge Dodgson, better known as Lewis Carroll, came from a background immersed in the Classics, although his interests would eventually lead him towards a role in the world of Mathematics, alongside his noted written works. A... moreCharles Lutwidge Dodgson, better known as Lewis Carroll, came from a background immersed in the Classics, although his interests would eventually lead him towards a role in the world of Mathematics, alongside his noted written works. A close examination of his works, including not only the Alice in Wonderland books but also his other novels, poetry, riddles, short stories, articles and personal letters, will reveal a plethora of Classical allusions which indicate at the very least an extensive general knowledge, and may indicate a deep and abiding interest in the Classical world. From philosophy, to language, to folklore and to drama, Lewis Carroll reveals flashes of Classical knowledge intertwined into the very fabric of his nonsense worlds. Some of these allusions are well known, but this paper seeks firstly to identify some more obscure examples. It also seeks to consider the effect that Lewis Carroll’s upbringing and early education had in engendering such a strong knowledge of the Classics, and to establish that Lewis Carroll’s knowledge of the Classics is indicative of both a continuing personal interest in the Classics throughout his adult life, and a personal belief that the Classics were an important facet of a good education.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•Terminology Troubles and Religious Romanisation: Assimilation, Syncretism and Divine InteractionAs their world expanded, the Romans came into contact with a wide variety of other peoples, all of whom had their own divinities. The terminology used by modern scholars to describe the interactions between Roman and local divinities is... moreAs their world expanded, the Romans came into contact with a wide variety of other peoples, all of whom had their own divinities. The terminology used by modern scholars to describe the interactions between Roman and local divinities is in desperate need of a reassessment. Terms such as assimilation and syncretism, as well as romanisation more generally, have been the source of much controversy in recent years; solutions range from complete abolition of such terms to denying the existence of a terminological problem at all. This paper seeks to discuss the background of the controversy regarding the terms assimilation, syncretism and romanisation. It will incorporate not just the viewpoints of Classical scholars, but also other strands of the debate, notably the ideas of historians of religions. In so doing, consideration will be given to whether these terms can serve a useful purpose in  modern academic literature. If these terms are no longer appropriate, the question must be asked with what can they be replaced, and this will be considered. Although this is a debate in which a scholarly consensus has not yet be forthcoming, it is important to bring to light the difficulties inherent in the use of these terms, lest careless use bring even greater confusion to the subject.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•The Translation of Cult: The Cereres in Roman North AfricaIt is accepted among scholars that the cult of the Cereres in Roman North Africa was an assimilation of the Greek cult of the Thesmophoroi into indigenous cults, but the details of the worship of the Cereres are obscure and almost... moreIt is accepted among scholars that the cult of the Cereres in Roman North Africa was an assimilation of the Greek cult of the Thesmophoroi into indigenous cults, but the details of the worship of the Cereres are obscure and almost entirely unknown from literary evidence. This paper surveys the funerary inscriptions of the priestesses of the Cereres to reconstruct elements of the cult. My aim is to establish whether the Thesmophoroi were significantly altered through their conversion to the Cereres.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•Transmutations of the Thesmophoria The Thesmophoria has been extensively studied as one of the most-widespread festivals of the ancient Greek world. The focus has traditionally been on the Classical period, albeit with an acknowledgement that the festival probably... moreThe Thesmophoria has been extensively studied as one of the most-widespread festivals of the ancient Greek world. The focus has traditionally been on the Classical period, albeit with an acknowledgement that the festival probably continued to be celebrated well into the Roman era. My Honours thesis investigates, through a survey of material culture and literary sources, the continuation of this festival in various areas of the Hellenistic and Roman worlds. More specifically, this paper will be presenting three local festivals that share similarities with the Greek Thesmophoria: the Demetria festival celebrated in Egypt (during the Hellenistic and Roman periods), the festival for the Bona Dea and the annual festival of Ceres in Rome. The evidence clearly shows that the Thesmophoria was not only still practiced during the Hellenistic and Roman periods, but that it was still being instituted in new cities such as Alexandria. In Egypt and in the festival of Ceres at Rome, the Thesmophoria appears to remain relatively unaffected by the contact with the local cultures and to have retained its particularly Greek characteristics. Conversely, the festival held in honour of the Bona Dea in Rome, while showing close similarities to the Greek Thesmophoria, is a clear example of the process of assimilation of Greek and local customs.Save to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•Women’s Festivals in the Hellenistic Period: an Interdisciplinary ApproachSave to Libraryby Kate  McLardy•Ancient Cultures at Monash University: Proceedings of a Conference held between 18–20 October 2013 on Approaches to Studying the Ancient PastSave to Libraryby Jessica Cox and +2Kate  McLardyAmy Pettman•  3  Ancient History, Archaeology, Ancient EgyptAncient Cultures at Monash University Proceedings of a Conference held between 18-20 October 2013 on Approaches to Studying the Ancient PastProceedings of the Ancient Cultures at Monash University (ACMU)  conference hosted by the Centre for Archaeology and Ancient History at Monash University, 2013.Save to LibraryDownloadby Caleb R . Hamilton and +2Amy PettmanKate  McLardy•  10  Ancient History, Archaeology, Egyptology, ClassicsExploring Our Understanding of the Interaction between Egyptian Uronarti and the C-GroupThough the fortresses of Egypt’s southern frontier have now mostly disappeared beneath Lake Nasser, the impact they had on Egyptian relations with Nubia remains important to any discussion of Egypt’s international policies. An analysis of... moreThough the fortresses of Egypt’s southern frontier have now mostly disappeared beneath Lake Nasser, the impact they had on Egyptian relations with Nubia remains important to any discussion of Egypt’s international policies. An analysis of the material evidence of both Uronarti and C-Group sites may provide us with an opportunity to clarify this debate, but using currently available evidence brings up its own issues. However, the excavations of Uronarti and Lower Nubia may provide one of the few remaining opportunities to study the impact the Egyptian fortresses of the Middle Kingdom had on the culture, development and lives of their nearest neighbours – the C-Group, who have always been considered the lesser, exploited partner in any interaction that occurred between them and Egypt. It has been thought that any development in the C-Group culture during the Middle Kingdom was due to the almost osmosis-like effect of being located near the more complex Egyptian culture. It is the view of the author that an Egyptocentric attitude, as well as the poor preservation of C-Group sites, has offered us a one-sided glimpse into a relationship that shows promise of being more balanced than the 20th century perception of Egyptian complexity seeping, without prejudice or intent, into the C-Group culture.Save to Libraryby Rebecca  Dixon•  8  Cultural Studies, Egyptian Archaeology, Nubian-Egyptian Relations, Cross-cultural interaction (Archaeology)Trade and Power: The Role of Naqada as a Trading Centre in Predynastic EgyptSave to LibraryDownloadby Jessica Cox•  2  Predynastic Naqada, Predynastic Egyptian TradeReport on the 2009 Season of Excavations at Mut el-Kharab, Dakhleh OasisSave to Libraryby Jessica Cox•The Rise and Fall of the City of Gold: An Analysis of the Chronology and Economic Complexity of the Predynastic Cemeteries of Naqada, EgyptSave to Libraryby Jessica Cox•
1
2
Next ›
Last »
 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023