Monash University | Criminology, School of Social Sciences - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Monash UniversityCriminology, School of Social Sciences  All Departments147 Documents10 ResearchersProblematizing the Rule of Law Agenda in the SDG ContextSave to Libraryby Ariel Yap•Capital Punishment in Singapore: A Critical Analysis of State Justifications From 2004 to 2018This article examines state justifications for capital punishment in Singapore. Singapore is a unique case study because capital punishment has largely been legitimised and justified by state officials. It illustrates how Singapore... moreThis article examines state justifications for capital punishment in Singapore. Singapore is a unique case study because capital punishment has largely been legitimised and justified by state officials. It illustrates how Singapore justifies capital punishment by analysing official discourse. Discussion will focus on the government’s narrative on capital punishment, which has been primarily directed against drug trafficking. Discussion will focus on Singapore’s death penalty regime and associated official discourse that seeks to justify state power to exercise such penalties, rather than the ethics and proportionality of capital punishment towards drug-related crimes. Critical analysis from a criminological perspective adds to the growing body of literature that seeks to conceptualise social and political phenomena in South-East Asia.  Save to LibraryDownloadby Ariel Yap•Problematizing the Rule of Law Agenda in the SDG ContextSave to Libraryby Ariel Yap•Problematising the Rule of Law Agenda in the SDG ContextDespite a global consensus that rule of law is desirable, there are important debates about what this entails and how it can be achieved or supported in developing and transitional countries of the Global South. Accordingly, this chapter... moreDespite a global consensus that rule of law is desirable, there are important debates about what this entails and how it can be achieved or supported in developing and transitional countries of the Global South. Accordingly, this chapter considers the importance and contextual suitability of rule of law as a building block for ‘peaceful and inclusive societies’ in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). We begin by examining key definitional debates and consider the challenges inherent to monitoring progress towards SDG target 16.3 which seeks to ‘promote the rule of law at the national and international levels, and ensure equal access to justice for all’. We proceed to illustrate some of these definitional and methodological limitations by considering how favourable rankings of model Western democracies mask rule of law deficits that relate to access to justice and the protection of human rights for marginalised populations. This critique highlights an important poi...Save to Libraryby Ariel Yap•Repeat mild traumatic brain injuries (RmTBI) modify nociception and disrupt orexinergic connectivity within the descending pain pathwayRepeat mild traumatic brain injuries (RmTBI) result in substantial burden to the public health system given their association with chronic post-injury pathologies, such as chronic pain and post-traumatic headache. Although this may relate... moreRepeat mild traumatic brain injuries (RmTBI) result in substantial burden to the public health system given their association with chronic post-injury pathologies, such as chronic pain and post-traumatic headache. Although this may relate to dysfunctional descending pain modulation (DPM), it is uncertain what mechanisms drive changes within this pathway. One possibility is altered orexinergic system functioning, as orexin is a potent anti-nociceptive neuromodulator. Orexin is exclusively produced by the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and receives excitatory innervation from the lateral parabrachial nucleus (lPBN). Therefore, we used neuronal tract-tracing to investigate the relationship between RmTBI and connectivity between lPBN and the LH, as well as orexinergic projections to a key site within the DPM, the periaqueductal gray (PAG). Prior to injury induction, retrograde and anterograde tract-tracing surgery was performed on 70 young-adult male Sprague Dawley rats, targeting the lPBN a...Save to LibraryDownloadby Naomi MacPherson•Examining the Underpinning Aims, Frameworks and Philosophies of Transitional and Post-Release Support Services for Incarcerated Women: A Victorian ContextThe increasing incarceration of women in Victoria is alarming (Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) 2015). There is a continuous increase in the re-incarceration of women with nearly one in every two women re-entering prison (Glass... moreThe increasing incarceration of women in Victoria is alarming (Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) 2015). There is a continuous increase in the re-incarceration of women with nearly one in every two women re-entering prison (Glass 2015). Victoria has some of the most comprehensive policies, support services, and penal reform for incarcerated women in Australia (Carlton and Russell 2015). Despite this, the incarceration rate continues to increase, having significant impacts on: individuals, support services, families, and the broader community (Petersilia 2003); thus, increasing the need for transitional and post-release services. Understanding the services that are available, and making a comparison in regards to the literature and what is known about “what works” for women, will assist to shed light on factors contributing to the increasing criminalisation of women in the Victorian jurisdiction.This dissertation examines the underpinning aims, frameworks and philosophies of transitional and post-release services for incarcerated women in Victoria, Australia. It will examine a sample of programs delivered by community-based organisations, correctional agencies, and organisations that are funded by Corrections Victoria. Specifically, this thesis will analyse the approaches that are delivered by the Victorian Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (VACRO) and Flat Out Incorporated.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emily Rees•  9  Criminology, Criminal Justice, Gender Studies, RehabilitationLGBTIQ Experiences in Tertiary Education: Implied Consent, Coming-Out, and Narratives of ‘Non’-Inclusion1st Australia Forum on Sexuality, Education and Health (AFSEH) National Conference: Equity and Justice – in Gender, Sexuality, Education and Health [Presented by Andrea] Co-Author: Dr James Roffee This paper presents preliminary... more1st Australia Forum on Sexuality, Education and Health (AFSEH) National Conference: Equity and Justice – in Gender, Sexuality, Education and Health [Presented by Andrea]Co-Author: Dr James RoffeeThis paper presents preliminary findings of a small, qualitative pilot study conducted at Monash University concerning LGBTIQ experiences of non-inclusion, marginalisation and harassment in tertiary education. Although there has been some literature on homophobia, transphobia and biphobia in public places and on in-school victimisation that focus on primarily early-age (primary and secondary school) experiences (e.g. Diaz et al, 2010; Chesir-Teran 2009), there has been comparatively little research on the experiences of LGBTIQ youth in a university setting, with a substantial void within an Australian context. Drawing on Coates’ (2013) approach to discourse analysis, the process of identifying how language can create and sustain normative discourses concerning  gender and sexuality, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 15 Monash University undergraduate students who identify as LGBTIQ, questioning and non-gender binary to explore their tertiary education experiences. While this study set out to examine experiences of homophobia, transphobia and biphobia within university settings, the preliminary results have provided dramatically different results. Many of the students interviewed did not report experiences of homophobia, transphobia and biphobia on campus more broadly, but cited a number of interesting issues in engaging with other LGBTIQ students. Initial themes that have emerged from this study include experiences of harassment, invisibility, and non-inclusion from other members within the LGBTIQ community at Monash, avoidance of LGBTIQ designated social spaces, experiences of implied consent and sexual promiscuity expectations, pressures to conform to politically queer social identities, pressures to come out when questioning, and hindered access to cultural knowledge. These initial findings suggest that the tertiary landscape in an Australian context may provide a rather complex space for LGBTIQ, questioning and non-gender binary students regarding their negotiation, experiences, and understanding of their gendered, sexed and sexual identities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrea  Waling and +1James Roffee•  6  LGBT Issues (Education), LGBT Issues, LGBT Youth, LgbtqLGBTIQ people’s experiences of crime and victimisation in safe spacesThe 28th Annual Australian and New Zealand Society of Criminology Conference: Security and Rule of Law: The Changing Face of Criminal Justice [Presented by James]Co-Author: Dr James RoffeeSave to LibraryDownloadby Andrea  Waling and +1James Roffee•  4  LGBT Issues, LGBT Issues in higher education, LGBT partner violence, LGBTQ DiscriminationNo Consensus on Incest? Criminalisation and Compatibility with the European Convention on Human RightsThis article explores the position of English and Welsh criminal law that criminalises incest in the context of European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) norms. This article focuses on the criminalisation of consensual adult familial... moreThis article explores the position of English and Welsh criminal law that criminalises incest in the context of European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) norms. This article focuses on the criminalisation of consensual adult familial sexual activity in sections 64–65 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (UK). The legislation investigated here was produced after a long period of review and with the explicit aim of being ECHR compliant. The aim is not to preempt what the European Court of Human Rights might say in light of a challenge. Instead, the article seeks to understand the criminal-isation of consensual adult familial sexual activity in light of European Convention on Human Rights norms. The analysis uses recent European Court cases as data, in order to understand the compatibility of the English and Welsh provisions with relevant jurisprudence before it is tempered by the political process and mediating concepts of the margin of appreciation and European consensus.Save to LibraryDownloadby James Roffee•  8  Criminal Law, Sexual Violence, European Convention of Human Rights, European Court of Human RightsIncest: The Exception to a Principled Scottish Sex LawSave to LibraryDownloadby James Roffee•  7  Criminal Law, Sexual Violence, Law reform, IncestThe Synthetic Necessary Truth Behind New Labour's Criminalisation of IncestFinlayson's emergent rhetorical political analysis is used in this article to examine arguments made in support of the criminalisation of both consensual and non-consensual adult familial sexual activity, as part of a key governmental... moreFinlayson's emergent rhetorical political analysis is used in this article to examine arguments made in support of the criminalisation of both consensual and non-consensual adult familial sexual activity, as part of a key governmental review and report on sexual offences (Setting the Boundaries (the Report)). The argument presented in this article is that a "synthetic necessary truth" was created in the justification of the criminalisation of an activity that would otherwise be permissible within the framework proposed for the review. This article examines the creation and formation of arguments in support of the criminalisation of incest made during the pre-legislative political process. It does this by employing a rhetorical political analysis, which does not dismiss the rhetorical properties of political speech but rather demands these become central to the review. By drawing attention to the Reports' rhetorical properties, the investigation moved away from ideas about the correctness of criminalisation of incest and instead placed the focus firmly on the structure and quality of the arguments used.Save to LibraryDownloadby James Roffee•  4  Sociology, Criminology, Law, Social legal studiesWhen Yes Actually Means YesSave to Libraryby James Roffee•The law on incest : a new legal realist approach to understanding the English and Welsh prohibitionsSave to Libraryby James Roffee•Rhetoric, Aboriginal Australians and the Northern Territory Intervention: A Socio-legal Investigation into Pre-legislative ArgumentationPresented within this article is a systematic discourse analysis of the arguments used by the then Australian Prime Minister and also the Minister for Indigenous Affairs in explaining and justifying the extensive and contentious... morePresented within this article is a systematic discourse analysis of the arguments used by the then Australian Prime Minister and also the Minister for Indigenous Affairs in explaining and justifying the extensive and contentious intervention by the federal government into remote Northern Territory Aboriginal communities. The methods used within this article extend the socio-legal toolbox, providing a contextually appropriate, interdisciplinary methodology that analyses the speech act’s rhetorical properties. Although many academics use sound-bites of pre-legislative speech in order to support their claims, this analysis is concerned with investigating the contents of the speech acts in order to understand how the Prime Minister’s and Minister for Indigenous Affairs’ argumentations sought to achieve consensus to facilitate the enactment of legislation. Those seeking to understand legislative endeavours, policy makers and speech actors will find that paying structured attention to the rhetorical properties of speech acts yields opportunities to strengthen their insight. The analysis here indicates three features in the argumentation: the duality in the Prime Minister’s and Minister’s use of the Northern Territory Government’s Little Children are Sacred report; the failure to sufficiently detail the linkages between the Intervention and the measures combatting child sexual abuse; and the omission of recognition of Aboriginal agency and consultation.Save to Libraryby James Roffee•Resolving ethical challenges when researching with minority and vulnerable populations: LGBTIQ victims of violence, harassment and bullyingThis article provides an analysis of the issues and ethical challenges faced in a study with LGBTIQ student participants concerning their experiences of violence, harassment and bullying in tertiary settings. The authors detail the... moreThis article provides an analysis of the issues and ethical challenges faced in a study with LGBTIQ student participants concerning their experiences of violence, harassment and bullying in tertiary settings. The authors detail the ethical challenges behind the development of the project, and around conducting research with a minority and vulnerable population. The article illustrates how the utilization of feminist and queer theory has impacted the process of conducting ethical research, including approaches to recruitment and participant autonomy. The dilemmas of confidentiality within a self-labelled and easily identifiable population are resolved. Further, unexpected challenges and risks to participant safety created through adherence to institutional ethical research frameworks are rectified. Importantly, the authors seek to avoid revictimization of participants and to instead empower students in their responses to violence, harassment and bullying that they may have experienced. The authors point to utilization of theoretical foundations and continual reflexive improvement as elements of best practice for those seeking to research minority populations, and in projects marked by the participation of those deemed vulnerable and high-risk.Save to Libraryby Andrea  Waling and +1James Roffee•  11  Ethics, Research Ethics, Queer Theory, FeminismLifting the Veil on Incest: The Historical Development of the OffenceThis paper presents an innovative analysis and explanation for the continued existence of incest laws. Legislation prohibiting incest is analysed using a New Legal Realist methodology. The research has identified a functional use of... moreThis paper presents an innovative analysis and explanation for the continued existence of incest laws. Legislation prohibiting incest is analysed using a New Legal Realist methodology. The research has identified a functional use of incest laws and opaque legal reasoning. Governments and pressure groups have used politically expedient arguments to legislate against incest. The paper argues that in addition to the prima facie reasons given for the offence, a secondary set of operative reasons can be identified. The dissonance is the product of competing social interests; incest is an example where the reasons openly stated for the offence are disjointed from socio- historical context which actually informed the change in law. Against this background the continued criminalisation of ‘incest’ within a modern legislative framework is inherently questionable as is the ability of individuals to engage within a deliberative democracy.Save to LibraryDownloadby James Roffee•  5  Criminal Law, Family studies, Family Law, Sexual Offences and RapeAndrew Ashworth and Julian V. Roberts, Sentencing guidelines: Exploring the English modelSave to LibraryDownloadby James Roffee•  2  Sentencing, Sentencing GuidelinesCatherine D Marcum and Tammy L Castle (Eds), Sex in prison: Myths and realitiesSave to Libraryby James Roffee•  6  Sexual Behaviour, Sexual Violence, Sexual Offenders, Punishment and PrisonsIncest in Scots Law: Missed Opportunities in the Scottish Law Commission ReviewIncest is criminalised in Scots Law through the Criminal Law (Consolidation)(Scotland) Act 1995. The Scottish Law Commission (SLC) recently undertook ‘the first ever systematic review of Scots sex law’ which led to the Sexual Offences... moreIncest is criminalised in Scots Law through the Criminal Law (Consolidation)(Scotland) Act 1995. The Scottish Law Commission (SLC) recently undertook ‘the first ever systematic review of Scots sex law’ which led to the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009. Yet this systematic review circumvented the offence of incest. To leave untouched such an offence would incorrectly suggest that the Scots law on the subject is appropriately formulated, working well and potentially a beacon of best practice which could be adopted elsewhere.This article intends to highlight some definitional problems with the Scots law on incest. The SLC first began a review into incest in 1977 producing a memoran-dum and then a Report. Recommendations within this Report led directly to the Incest and Related Offences (Scotland) Act 1986.  The definition was altered sub-stantially by the removal of a number of prohibited degrees. Consolidation in 1995 left the substantive provisions of the law unchanged and this formulation of the law of 1986 is still in force today.Save to LibraryDownloadby James Roffee•  6  Criminal Law, Family Law, Sexual Violence, Gendered ViolenceChild Sexual Abuse in Fiji: Authority, Risk Factors and ResponsesWhile child sexual abuse is a problem worldwide, the risk factors for the perpetration of child sexual abuse within Fiji are unique in their relation to the traditional and communal nature of Fijian society. In this article, culturally... moreWhile child sexual abuse is a problem worldwide, the risk factors for the perpetration of child sexual abuse within Fiji are unique in their relation to the traditional and communal nature of Fijian society. In this article, culturally relevant dynamic risk factors found within contemporary Fijian society are identified and understood alongside static factors contributing to abuse. Although there have been recent changes to sexual offence legislation and traditional criminal justice system responses to victims of sexual abuse, state-sanctioned responses continue to maintain victimising practices. Equally, the relative rural isolation means many Indigenous Fijian (iTaukei) communities continue to use customary restorative justice practices that may marginalise the rehabilitation of victims and offenders for the communities’ benefit. However, a culturally specific amalgamation of traditional criminal justice and customary restorative responses may help to create more holistic protection for survivors of child sexual abuse in Fiji.Save to Libraryby John Whitehead and +1James Roffee•  10  Restorative Justice, Customary Law, Indigenous Peoples, Fiji
1
2
3
4
…
8
Next ›
Last »
 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023