Dutch Low Saxon - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Classification
2Use
3Education
4Dutch influence
5References
6Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Dutch Low Saxon
34 languages
አማርኛالعربيةAsturianuCatalàDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Bahasa IndonesiaNederlandsNedersaksies日本語NordfriiskپنجابیPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSvenskaதமிழ்УкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt粵語ZazakiZeêuws中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Group of Low Saxon dialects spoken in the northeastern Netherlands
For other uses, see Low Saxon.
Dutch Low Saxon (Nederlaands Leegsaksies [ˈneːdərlaːnts ˈleːxsɑksis] or Nederlaands Nedersaksies; Dutch: Nederlands Nedersaksisch) are the Low Saxon dialects of the Low German language that are spoken in the northeastern Netherlands and are written there with local, unstandardised orthographies based on Standard Dutch orthography. The UNESCO Atlas of endangered languages lists the language as vulnerable.[1] The percentage of speakers among parents dropped from 34% in 1995 to 15% in 2011. The percentage of speakers among their children dropped from 8% to 2% in the same period.[2] According to a 2005 study 53% speaks Low Saxon or Low Saxon and Dutch at home and 71% could speak it in the researched area.[3]
The Netherlands recognizes Dutch Low Saxon as a regional language under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.[4]
Classification[edit]
The classification of Dutch Low Saxon is not unanimous. From a diachronic point of view, the Dutch Low Saxon dialects are merely the West Low German (Northern Low Saxon and Friso-Saxon in the case of Gronings) dialects native to areas in the Netherlands, as opposed to areas beyond the national border with Germany. Some Dutch Low Saxon dialects like Tweants show features of Westphalian, a West Low German dialect spoken in adjacent Northern Germany.
From a strictly synchronic point of view, however, some linguists classify Dutch Low Saxon as a variety of Dutch.[5] Also, as a practical matter, Dutch Low Saxon, since the 17th century, has been influenced by Standard Dutch, but the Low Saxon dialects in Germany are influenced by Standard German. Recent studies have, however, shown that mutual intelligibility is not necessarily impaired and that the basis remains the same.[6]
Use[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Dutch Low Saxon" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Former shop with Dutch Low Saxon name An de Göte ("At the Gutter") on the Heelweg in Dinxperlo.
Shortly after the Second World War, linguists claimed that speaking a dialect other than the standard language would impair children's (language) learning abilities. In combination with a generally condescending attitude by the upper classes of Dutch society and the media towards speakers of Low Saxon varieties (or in fact anything different from Standard Dutch), that goaded many parents to stop passing the language on to their children. It also brought about a general opinion among speakers of Low Saxon that having the slightest accent, in Dutch, would reduce job opportunities and social status.
Throughout the 1960s, the language decline inspired many to form dialect preservation circles and groups, such as the Tweants Kreenk vuur de Twentse Sproake (Circle for the Twents language) or the Drèents Huus van de Taol (House of the Language). Many of them were mainly interested in preserving rather than promoting the language. The prevailing tone was one of melancholy and nostalgia. Their focus was often on preserving cultural traits considered typical to speakers of the language, such as rural life and traditional practices, crafts and costumes. That merely confirmed many of the existing stereotypes about speakers of the language.
Another tone was rather literary in nature. Though well-intended, it caused even more estrangement with younger generations.
This article is a part of a series onDutch
Languages of the Netherlands
Dutch dialects
Afrikaans
Low Saxon dialects
Northern Low Saxon
Gronings
Westphalian
Achterhooks
Drèents
Veluws
Sallaands
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
West Low Franconian dialects
West Flemish/French Flemish
East Flemish
Zeelandic
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
Surinamese Dutch
Brabantian
Antwerpian
Brusselian
Stadsfries
Bildts
East Low Franconian dialects
Limburgish
Southeast Limburgish
vte
At the same time, knowledge of and appreciation for related varieties was poor, which stifled cooperation between most of the dialect preservation groups. Instead of forming an organisation to stand together and help one another to improve the status for all the different varieties, fiery discussions arose about whether the long open or open-mid back rounded vowel (pronounced [ɒː] or [ɔː], depending on the dialect) should be written as either 'oa' or 'ao'. That resulted in little co-operation and no nationwide coordination.
Other attempts to unite the different dialect circles were met with cynicism. The conception prevailed that the dialects were too different to unite.
In 1975, the rock 'n' roll band Normaal boldly shook all perceptions of Low Saxon and its speakers. Until then, Low Saxon was mostly restricted to traditional folklore music. Normaal openly denounced all Dutch disdain, praised farmers and local farm life and boldly used Achterhooks Low Saxon, voicing the opinion and feelings of many Dutchmen of non-Dutch-speaking origin. Their hit song "Oerend Hard", a song about two bikers who died in an accident, took the charts by storm, and it is now regarded a true evergreen of Dutch music. It quickly garnered them a large fan base, even in non-Low Saxon areas, such as Friesland and Limburg. They inspired many other young rock 'n' roll artists to sing in Low Saxon, who now form a subgenre of their own in the Dutch music industry, which is gradually becoming aware of the genre's commercial potential.
In 1996, Dutch Low Saxon was added to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Dutch provinces now receive minor funds for preserving and promoting the use of Low Saxon. A general rise in regional pride and appreciation for the Low Saxon identity made the earlier openly disdainful attitude towards Low Saxon seem to have subsided somewhat. Low Saxon is increasingly being used in popular culture, marketing, and local politics.
The Tweants municipality of Rijssen-Holten, for example, has officially adopted a bilingual status for their town hall desks, and customers may opt for Dutch or Low Saxon help.
In 2012, a radio presenter for national broadcasting station 3FM, Michiel Veenstra from Almelo, promised to present in Tweants for an hour if a Tweants song received more than €10,000 in the annual fundraising campaign Het Glazen Huis (The Glass House). As the song received more than €17,000, Veenstra kept his promise.[7]
An increasing number of local political parties have used Low Saxon in their 2014 electoral campaigns.  In 2014, a Facebook page called "Tukkers be like" gained more than 18,000 followers within a week. The page uses Twents cultural concepts and expressions in Twents. The idea of the page was based on the US Internet meme "Bitches be like", which gained enormous popularity in 2013, and inspired many to create their own versions. The meme presents an image of a certain situation, to which a certain group would respond in a typical way.
Education[edit]
Dutch Low Saxon has long been stigmatised and kept out of schools. People of older generations may relate numerous accounts of their childhood in which contemporaries were afraid to go to school for fear of being reprimanded, or purposely ignored, for not speaking Dutch. 
The similarities between the languages made Low Saxon be regarded a dialect of Dutch, and shifting from Low Saxon to Dutch would be relatively easy. Instead of adapting the school curriculum and guiding the children into learning Dutch as a second language and embracing the potential of the Low Saxon language, non-Dutch speaking parents were advised to speak Dutch with their children instead to increase their chances of success on the job market. The result was a string of Dutch dialects with Low Saxon features, which were also looked down upon.
As of 2014, Low Saxon is still not a part of the Dutch school curriculum. It is neither a subject nor a mode of communication. This causes a general lack of knowledge about, and appreciation for the language. Its possible role as a language of trade between the Netherlands and Germany is often dismissed, but a 2012 study indicates it may be a useful addition in international trade communications.[8]
As of 2015, language enthusiasts attempt to start up courses for the language and culture, especially in the Tweante region. They are mostly studies aimed at the elderly but still prove to be very popular. There still is no professional attempt to promote the language into the school curriculum.
Probably the largest single body of work ever produced in Dutch Low Saxon is the Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia, begun in 2006 as a separate project from the German Low Saxon Wikipedia, which preceded it by three years.
Dutch influence[edit]
Spread of the contemporary Low German and Low Franconian dialects.
A lot of the dialects have been affected by the Hollandic expansion of the 17th century. All of them are lexically dependent on Dutch rather than German for neologisms. When written down, they use a Dutch-based orthography.
Several long vowel shifts happened in Veluws, Urkers, Sallaans, Stellingwarfs, Drèents and in some variants of Gronings; the change occurred as the Hollandic dialect rose in prestige during the 17th century. For example, the oe [uː] changed into uu [yː]. Tweants, Eastern Achterhooks and some variants of Gronings and Drents, by contrast, retained their old vowels. Compare the Tweants and Sallaans equivalents: hoes : huus ("house"). In many dialects, the oe sound was preserved in some words but changed to uu in others. As a result, in Sallaans house is huus, but mouse is moes (as in Tweants).
Dutch has lost the word doe "thou" and replaced it with jij, equivalent to English "ye", originally the second person plural. In many Low Saxon dialects in the Netherlands, the same happened. The doe : ie/ieje/ij isogloss runs close to the Dutch border, except in Groningen, where it enters the Dutch territory. In Twente, it is present in the easternmost villages of Denekamp and Oldenzaal, but its disappearance from the rest of the region is only a relatively recent development. In the Achterhoek (Gelderland), dou can be found in Winterswijk and Groenlo.
References[edit]
Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Dutch Low Saxon phrasebook.
 Low Saxon (Netherlands) edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
^ "UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in danger". www.unesco.org.
^ Driessen, Geert (2012). "Ontwikkelingen in het gebruik van Fries, streektalen en dialecten in de periode 1995-2011" (PDF). Radboud University Nijmegen. Retrieved 2017-04-29.
^ Bloemhoff, H., 2005, Taaltelling Nedersaksisch. Een enquête naar het gebruik en de beheersing van het Nedersaksisch in Nederland. Groningen: Sasland
^ "De Nedersaksische taal (The Dutch Low Saxon language)". Rijksoverheid.nl (website of the Dutch national government). 14 July 2020. Retrieved 2022-12-17.
^ Hermann Niebaum/Jürgen Macha: Einführung in die Dialektologie des Deutschen, 2., neubearbeitete Auflage, Tübingen: Max Niemeyer, 2006, p. 221, footnote 7.
^ Gooskens, C. S. & Kürschner, S. 2009 Low Saxon dialects across borders — Niedersächsische Dialecte über Grenzen hinweg. Lenz, A. N., Charlotte, G. & Siemon, R. (eds.). Franz Steiner Verlag, p. 273 - 297 (Beihefte Zeitschrift für Dialektologie und Linguistik; no. 138)
^ Michiel Veenstra presenteert een uur lang in het twents.
^ Denge, G.J.M. ter. Linguae Intergermanica: The Use of Low Saxon, English, Dutch, German, and Receptive Multilingualism in Northern Dutch – Northern German Communication. 2012.
Further reading[edit]
Kocks, Geert (1999), "Coevorden" (PDF), in Kruijsen, Joep; van der Sijs, Nicoline (eds.), Honderd Jaar Stadstaal, Uitgeverij Contact, pp. 49–58
Nijen Twilhaar, Jan (1999), "Deventer" (PDF), in Kruijsen, Joep; van der Sijs, Nicoline (eds.), Honderd Jaar Stadstaal, Uitgeverij Contact, pp. 59–73
Reker, Siemon (1999), "Groningen" (PDF), in Kruijsen, Joep; van der Sijs, Nicoline (eds.), Honderd Jaar Stadstaal, Uitgeverij Contact, pp. 25–36
Schaars, Lex (1999), "Zutphen" (PDF), in Kruijsen, Joep; van der Sijs, Nicoline (eds.), Honderd Jaar Stadstaal, Uitgeverij Contact, pp. 87–101
vteLanguages of the NetherlandsOfficial
Dutch (national)
English
West Frisian
Papiamento
Non-official
Ambonese
Arabic
Indonesian
Javanese
Limburgish
Low Saxon
Minangkabau
Ripuarian
Romani
Yiddish
Sign language
Dutch Sign Language
vteLanguages and dialects of Benelux
Dutch
Brabantian
East Flemish
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
Zeelandic
Stadsfries
English
French language
Belgian French
Champenois
Lorrain
Picard
Walloon
High German
Standard High German
Luxembourgish
Ripuarian
Limburgish
Low German
Northern Low Saxon
Gronings
Westphalian
Achterhoeks
Drèents
Sallands
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Urkers
Veluws
Papiamento
West Frisian
Sign languages
Deutsche Gebärdensprache, DGS
Langue des signes Francophone de Belgique, LSFB
Nederlandse Gebarentaal, NGT
Vlaamse Gebarentaal, VGT
Languages of Belgium
Languages of the Netherlands
Languages of Luxembourg
vteGermanic languagesAccording to contemporary philologyWestAnglo-FrisianAnglic
English
dialects
Old English
Middle English
Modern English
Early Modern English
Irish Anglo-Norman
Fingallian
Yola
Scots
Early Scots
Middle Scots
FrisianHistorical forms
Old Frisian
Middle Frisian
East Frisian
Ems
Saterland Frisian
Weser
Wangerooge Frisian
Wursten Frisian
North Frisian
Insular
Eiderstedt
Föhr–Amrum
Föhr
Amrum
Heligolandic
Sylt
Mainland
Bökingharde
Mooring
Halligen
Goesharde
Northern
Central
Southern
Karrharde
Strand
Wiedingharde
West Frisian
Hindeloopen
Schiermonnikoog
Westlauwers–Terschellings
Mainland West Frisian
Clay Frisian
Wood Frisian
Westereendersk
Terschelling
Low GermanHistorical forms
Old Saxon
Middle Low German
West Low German
Dutch Low Saxon
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Gronings
Drèents
Gelders-Overijssels
Achterhooks
Sallaans
Urkers
Veluws
Northern Low Saxon
East Frisian Low Saxon
Eastphalian
Westphalian
East Low German
Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch
Brandenburgisch
Central Pomeranian
East Pomeranian
Low Prussian
Plautdietsch / Mennonite Low German
Low FranconianHistorical forms
Frankish
Old Dutch
Middle Dutch
Standard variants
Dutch
Afrikaans (Kaaps)
West Low Franconian
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
French Flemish
Zeelandic
East Flemish
Brabantian
Surinamese Dutch
Jersey Dutch
Mohawk Dutch
Stadsfries/Bildts/Amelands/Midslands
East Low Franconian
Meuse-Rhenish
Limburgish
Southeast Limburgish
High GermanHistorical forms
Old High German
Middle High German
New High German
Early New High German
Standard German
German Standard German
Austrian Standard German
Swiss Standard German
Non-standard variants and creoles
Namibian German
Namibian Black German
Berlinerisch
Unserdeutsch
Barossa German
Rotwelsch
Lotegorisch
Yenish
Yiddish
Eastern
Western
Scots Yiddish
Klezmer-loshn
Lachoudisch
Central GermanWest Central German
Central Franconian
Ripuarian
Colognian
Moselle Franconian
Luxembourgish
Transylvanian Saxon
Hunsrückisch
Hunsrik
Rhine Franconian
Lorraine Franconian
Palatine
Volga German
Pennsylvania Dutch
Hessian
Central Hessian
Amana German
East Central German
Thuringian
Upper Saxon
Erzgebirgisch
Lusatian
Silesian German
High Prussian
Wymysorys
Halcnovian
Upper German
Alemannic in the broad sense
Low Alemannic
Alsatian
Coloniero
High Alemannic
Swiss German
Highest Alemannic
Walser German
Swabian
Bavarian
Northern Bavarian
Central Bavarian
Viennese German
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Hutterite German
South Franconian
East Franconian
Vogtlandian
Langobardic
North and EastNorthHistorical forms
Proto-Norse
Old Norse
Old West Norse
Old East Norse
Old Gutnish
West
Norwegian
Bergensk
Kebabnorsk
Sognamål
Trøndersk
Valdris
Vestlandsk
Vikværsk
Bokmål (written)
Nynorsk (written)
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Faroese
Icelandic
Old Icelandic
Middle Icelandic
Greenlandic Norse
Norn
East
Swedish
Swedish dialects
Danish
Danish dialects
Insular Danish
Jutlandic
South Jutlandic
East Danish
Bornholmsk
Scanian
Southern Schleswig Danish
Gøtudanskt
Perkerdansk
Old Danish
Middle Danish
Dalecarlian
Elfdalian
Gutnish
Mainland Gutnish
Fårö Gutnish
East
Gothic (Crimean Gothic)
Burgundian
Vandalic
PhilologyLanguage subgroups
North
East
West
Elbe (Irminonic)
Weser-Rhine (Istvaeonic)
North Sea (Ingvaeonic)
Northwest
Gotho-Nordic
South
Reconstructed
Proto-Germanic
Proto-Germanic grammar
Germanic parent language
Ancient Belgian language
Diachronic features
Grimm's law
Verner's law
Holtzmann's law
Sievers's law
Kluge's law
Germanic substrate hypothesis
West Germanic gemination
High German consonant shift
Germanic a-mutation
Germanic umlaut
Germanic spirant law
Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law
Great Vowel Shift
Synchronic features
Germanic verb
Germanic strong verb
Germanic weak verb
Preterite-present verb
Grammatischer Wechsel
Indo-European ablaut
Italics indicate extinct languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dutch_Low_Saxon&oldid=1172563462"
Categories: Languages of the NetherlandsDutch Low SaxonDutch dialectsHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles containing Low German-language textArticles containing Dutch-language textArticles needing additional references from May 2014All articles needing additional references
 This page was last edited on 27 August 2023, at 22:00 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width