Windows on Asia | Michigan State University
84 captures
22 Jun 2010 - 20 Jul 2023
Jun
AUG
Dec
09
2010
2011
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks July 2011
  Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started July, 2011. These files are currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20110809081015/http://asia.isp.msu.edu/wbwoa/southeast_asia/malaysia/religion.htm
Alt-2 to Skip to main content.
Alt-0 for Accessibility and Access Key information page.
Alt-3 to turn all Interactive Accessibility mode items on or back to their default.
i
Search for:
Home|
         Region|
         Country|
         Study Units|
         Asian Studies Center
 
Navigate by Region
Central Asia
Afghanistan
Azerbaijan
Iran
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan
Turkmenistan
Uzbekistan
East Asia
China
Hong Kong, S.A.R.
Japan
Mongolia
N. Korea
S. Korea
Taiwan
Southeast Asia
Brunei
Burma
Cambodia
East Timor
Indonesia
Laos
Malaysia
Philippines
Singapore
Thailand
Vietnam
South Asia
Bangladesh
Bhutan
India
Maldives
Nepal
Pakistan
Sri Lanka
 
Malaysia - Religion
Facts & Stats | History | Culture | Geography | Religion | Current Events | Links & Resources
Malaysia is a multi-ethnic society and as such, has a variety of   major religions which occupy an important place in the daily life of its   citizens. The country is officially an Islamic nation and Islam is the state   religion of Malaysia. However, Malaysia guarantees freedom of religion and   Hinduism, Buddhism, Daoism, Confucianism, Christianity, Sikhism, and indigenous   religions are all practiced freely although there are many ways in which Islam   is privileged and there is some discrimination practiced. For the most part,   religious affiliation follows ethnic lines. Almost all Malays, the dominant   ethnic group in the country, are Muslims and, because Malaysia is an Islamic   state, many Muslim schools, mosques, and religious organizations are supported   by the state. In fact, by law all Malays must be Muslim; for an ethnic Malay to   convert from Islam means that she/he would lose his/her status as an ethnic   Malay with the privileges which that entails. 
The next largest ethnic group, the Chinese, practice a mixture   of Daoist, Confucianism and Buddhist beliefs, although a small number are   Christians. The third group, the Hindus, practices popular Hinduism; this group   is comprised mostly of Indians who have migrated from Southern India and are   Tamil speaking. The small Sikh community derives from the British importation of   Sikhs for employment in paramilitary and police units and is ethnically   homogeneous. Christianity was spread by missionaries and while few peninsular   Malaysians are Christians, a higher percentage of the indigenous inhabitants of   Borneo have converted to Christianity. Christianity is the one religion which   has spread, in small amounts, to all ethnic groups. Many of the tribal   communities, in Borneo and in peninsular Malaysia, continue with their   traditional animistic beliefs and religious/cultural activities.
The tolerance and acceptance of a variety of religions is   clearly shown in the calendar of national holidays in Malaysia in which the most   important celebrations of the 4 major traditions are all national holidays.   Muslim national holidays include the celebration marking the end of the fasting   month of Ramadan, the end of the Hajj pilgrimage season, and the birthday of   Mohammad. Chinese New Year, the Buddhist celebration of Vesak (the day in which   the Buddha was born, achieved enlightenment, and died), the Hindu holiday of   Deepavali or Festival of Lights, and the Christian holiday of Christmas, are all   national and school holidays. However, it is worth noting that Easter is not a   national holiday and that each religion other than Islam has only one official   national holiday. In tribal areas, other holidays celebrating special events   common to that indigenous population, are celebrated as local holidays. For a   good discussion of these and other festivals of Malaysia, please read
      Culture & Society - Festival & Celebrations
Malaysia is an official Islamic state (about 60% of the   population are Muslims) and thus Islam is privileged in a number of ways.   Moreover, although Malaysia is an ethnically diverse nation, the government   favors the Malays and other indigenous peoples over the Chinese, Indian, and   ex-patriate communities. The city states that now comprise Malaysia were first   influenced by Indian traders who brought with them Hinduism and Buddhism and for   many centuries these two religions were widely practiced. Islam first came in   the 10th century, brought by Arabic and Indian traders and began the slow   process of converting the population. The first ruler was converted in the 12th   century and by the 15th century many of the citizens considered themselves   Muslims. The Islam adopted by the Malaysians was the tolerant strain brought by   the Sufis and even today, a number of ceremonies incorporate pre-Islamic   traditions. However, the in past 20 years, the nation has become more   Islamically concerned and adherence to the practices of the religion is   growing.
Since Islam is central to Malay culture and since the other   religions are practiced by other ethnic groups, there are constant attempts to   pass laws limiting the activities of these groups and limiting the freedoms   associated with religion for both Muslims and non-Muslims. For example, Malays   must be Muslim and, if they renounce Islam (which is very difficult as they have   to be given a certificate of apostasy by an Islamic court) they are also   renouncing their Malay identity. At the same time, converts to Islam (for   example through marriage) automatically become “ethnic Malays” with the rights   that status brings. The identity card that all Malaysians over the age of 12   must carry, identifies the bearers as Muslim or non-Muslim; when this card was   first introduced, non Muslim groups protested it but now they have come to   accept the card.
For the most part, the Islam as practiced in Malaysia is   relatively liberal. Muslim women often wear the tudong, the traditional Islamic   head covering that leaves the face exposed, but there is no law requiring this   and some women do not wear it. In the International Islamic University, all   women must wear the tudong, including non-Muslim women. The concept of Islam   most widely embraced is that call Islam Hadhari, introduced by Datuk Seri   Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, Prime Minister of Malaysia. This code stresses knowledge,   hard work, honesty, good administration and efficiency, and appeals to Muslims   to be inclusive, tolerant and outward looking. Abdullah Mohd Zain, a minister in   the Prime Minster’s government, stated that Islam Hadhari “ emphasizes wisdom,   practicality and harmony, encourages moderation or a balanced approach to life.   Yet it does not stray from the fundamentals of the Qu’ran and the example and   sayings of the Prophet.” However, one of the major political parties, PAS is a   fundamentalist and conservative party that wants to make Malaysia an Islamic   state. It is constantly trying to implement stricter Islamic Law and   regulations.
For an article dealing with Islam and Politics in Malaysia,   please read
      Religion and Poitics in Malaysia
Malaysia has two law systems: the civil courts and the Sharia   courts. The Sharia courts are only concerned with the activities of Muslims and   primarily deal with religious issues and family matters. The question of whether   one can choose to renounce Islam is open to question as, in some cases, the   courts have refused to recognize this renunciation. The Sharia courts are open   only to Muslims. This creates problems when the court case involves one Muslim   and one non-Muslim as the rulings of this court are binding only on Muslims. In   most such cases, the civil court verdicts predominate, but in a few cases the   non Muslim partner has had no voice in such things as religion of the children   or custody or property settlements. On a lighter note, the courts requested that   any non-Muslim who wishes to keep a dog, obtain the permission of Muslim   neighbors (dogs are considered unclean in Islam)
In addition to a system of Sharia courts, Malaysia has other   state supported institutions to assist Muslims. For example, one of the five   pillars of Islam is the payment of the zakat or charitable tax. Each of   Malaysia’s fourteen states has an official zakat collection agency which   collects both kinds of zakat: the personal one and the wealth based one. The   personal zakat is collected form each person with sufficient means and is given   during the month of Ramadan so that poor families have the where-withal for the   feast celebrating the end of the fasting month. This tax is the equivalent of a   day’s food for one person. The zakat based on wealth is due from each person   with sufficient funds and is about 2.5% of the net worth. The zakat agencies   collect and distribute this on behalf of the citizens. The zakat can be given   through payroll deduction or on line through Malaysia’s Islamic banks. 
Malaysia also has a state supported system to help Muslim fund   the Hajj or pilgrimage to Mecca. The administration of the Malaysian Hajj group   is done by the Pilgrim Management and Fund Board. It both enables people to save   and invest their money to fund the Hajj and trains and organizes the pilgrims so   they avoid common problems on the Hajj. It is considered both a model of Islamic   banking and the reason that Malaysia’s pilgrims are well prepared for the Hajj   and seldom run into problems. It provides all aspects of the Hajj, from giving   members prayer beads, to arranging travel and accommodations, to recommending   special face creams to be used in the dry and arid climate of Saudi   Arabia.
Members of the Chinese community for the most part practice a   mixture of Buddhist, Confucian and Daoist doctrines, although a number of   communities are Christian. While Chinese have been traders and businessmen in   Malaysia for centuries, the great influx of Chinese workers brought to Malaya by   the British to work the tin mines, has resulted in a population which is about   28% Chinese. Most of them today are concentrated in cities and are among the   wealthiest groups and the ones who control much of the wealth and many of the   international businesses of the country. This has given rise to resentment on   the part of the Malays and measures to limit the business practices of the   Chinese. It is estimated that about 19% of them classify themselves as Buddhist   and Buddhist temples and ceremonies abound in both cities and rural areas.   Buddhism has no official head and each temple or monastery is autonomous. Most   Chinese adhere to one or another of the Mahayana Buddhist schools while the   immigrant Thai and Sinhalese communities practice the Theravada form. In recent   years, there has been an attempt to coordinate activities of these different   sects of Buddhists. For example, they have formed a joint Vesak Celebration   Committee in the temples in Kuala Lumpur and Selangor to coordinate celebration   of Vesak, the holiday commemorating the birth, enlightenment and death of the   Buddha. The Malaysian Buddhist Council was formed both to promote the study and   practice of Buddhism and to promote solidarity among Buddhists in general. 
Daoism in Malaysia, also practiced by the Chinese community, is   less organized although many of the Daoist sects retain their ties with Daoists   in China and in Taiwan. Daoist deities are often found in Buddhist temples and   the two traditions co-exist quite well. It is estimated that there are over 150   Daoist temples and over 12,000 priests in Malaysia. Since most of the Chinese   are from the provinces of Guangdong and Fujian, many of the Daoist deities are   local deities from these areas. In addition, these temples enshrine images of   the city god, ancestral gods, earth god and the god of war, as well as the   traditional trinity of Daoist gods. In recent times, there have been attempts to   organize Daoist priests and temples and the government authorized the   establishment of the Malaysia Daoist Association in 1995. This was followed in   1997 by the formation of the Daoist Organization League to promote Daoist   philosophy, culture and values, lead devotees in traditional practices and   contribute to social welfare.
The third largest ethnic group in Malaysia is the Tamil Indians   who comprise abut 9% of the population. The majority of these are practicing   Hindus today. Prior to the coming of Islam, Malaysia was greatly influenced by   both Hinduism and Buddhism brought by early Indian traders. However, this Indian   influence waned with the coming of Islam and the conversion of Malaysia’s rulers   in the 11-14th centuries. The present day community is composed mainly of the   descendants of migrants from Tamil Nadu who came to work the rubber plantations   under the British. A much smaller number migrated from North India. Hinduism in   Malaysia is complex featuring large colorful urban temples dedicated to specific   deities and smaller country temples which often house a multitude of deities.   The temples and the specific deities worshipped reflect the diverse origins of   the population as workers brought their own local images and deities and customs   with them. Many of the temples and people follow the Saivite tradition (the   worship of Siva) which is prevalent in Southern India, although worship of other   deities is also found.
Siva is one of the three great gods of Hinduism and comprises   one of the trinity of Brahma the creator, Vishnu the preserver and Siva the   destroyer. Siva is depicted in two contrasting modes: as the god of destruction   who dances the earth to pieces, thus making way for rebirth of a new and better   world, and as the oxymoronic “sexual ascetic.” In the first mode, he is often   shown dancing in a ring of fire; in the second he is shown as an emaciated   ascetic with matted hair or as a lingam, a depiction of the phallus. However,   all these elements show that Siva is filled with love for humanity and thus   Sivaism promotes love, not fear of the deity. Even as the destroyer, Siva is   destroying the bad elements in the world and thus creating the possibility of a   better world to come. As an ascetic, he is sacrificing himself, in the Hindu   concept, for all living beings, thus again enabling them to find a better life   or better rebirth. As the lingam, of course, he represents continued sexuality   and thus continued rebirth and creation.
About 10% of the population of Malaysia is Christian of one   variety or another; Roman Catholic, Anglican and Methodist are the most common   denominations. Most of these are located in East Malaysia, on the Island of   Borneo, rather than in Peninsular Malaysia. Christians, while theoretically   allowed to practice their religion, have experienced some restrictions as   Malaysia seeks to become more of an Islamic society. While all existing churches   are allowed to operate, there have been restrictions placed on the construction   of new churches and in the city of Shah Alam (considered as Malaysia’s first   “Islamic City,”) no churches have been allowed. Christians are not allowed to   proselytize Muslims and all Christian literature must carry a note “for   non-Muslims only.” Moreover, the Indonesian and Malay language Bibles are banned   in the country (ostensibly because they both use the word Allah for God); an   attempt was made to ban the Iban Bible for the same reason but it was finally   lifted after it was explained that there is no other Iban term for the Almighty   other that “Allah Taala.” Some further restrictions include the banning of Mel   Gibson’s movie, “The Passion of the Christ” which was open only to Christians;   however, its two month run was extended, making it doubtful that only Christians   viewed the movie. Christmas is a legal holiday, but its public celebration is   more commercial than religious. While Good Friday is not a federal holiday it is   a state public holiday in the states of Sabah and Sarawak where Christians form   a sizeable minority.
The last religion prevalent in Malaysia is the Sikh community; a   small community today, the Sikhs were brought in by the British to form   paramilitary and police units and many have stayed. The Sikhs worship one God   who is nameless and formless and denounce idol worship. Their Gurdwara, places   of worship, are open to all on an equal basis, regardless of race, religion,   ethnic background, or gender. They celebrate the Sikh New Year (Vasakhi) in   April, as well as the birthdays and martyrdoms of the 10 Sikh Gurus (leaders),   and the day of the installation of the Holy Guru Granth Sahib (scripture) as the   “living Guru” of the Sikhs for all time, although none of these are national   holidays. For more information on the Sikh Religion, you may read 
      Introduction to Sikhism
return to top
 
*Adobe Acrobat Reader  is required to read PDF documents.
Asian Studies Center301 International CenterEast Lansing, MI 48824-1035 Tel: 517.353.1680Fax: 517.432.2659 
Privacy  | Site Map  | Accessibility 
© 2011 Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI 48824
MSU is an affirmative-action, equal opportunity employer
Alt-1 for Home Page (asia.isp.msu.edu)
Alt-4 for Search box
Alt-5 to turn Bolded Links on (or off).Windows on Asia
Alt-6 for Site Map; hierarchical listing of the main pages of the site
Alt-7 to move to the Main Menu.
Alt-8 for Contact Us
Alt-9 to move to the Footer Menu.