Spirituality & Mysticism Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Spirituality & Mysticism34,541 FollowersRecent papers in Spirituality & MysticismTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleShaul Magid, “Jewish Kabbalah: Hayyim Vital’s Shaarei Kedusha,” in Louis Komjathy, ed., Contemplative Literature: A Comparative Sourcebook on Meditation and Contemplative Prayer (Albany: SUNY Press, 2015), 197-265Save to LibraryDownloadby Shaul Magid•  9  Jewish Studies, Jewish Mysticism, Mysticism, Spirituality & MysticismHow I found GOD In Everyone and Everywhere: An Anthology of Spiritual MemoirsMuch can be gained from trailing the spiritual narratives of those who have traveled ahead of us, for the God they have found, we may never have considered. How I Found God in Everyone and Everywhere captures for a general audience the... moreMuch can be gained from trailing the spiritual narratives of those who have traveled ahead of us, for the God they have found, we may never have considered. How I Found God in Everyone and Everywhere captures for a general audience the spiritual shift away from popular notions of a God "up there" and "out there" and toward immanent and inclusive understandings of a God in our very midst. It's built around the fascinating personal memoirs of a close-knit group of prominent contributors including: Deepak Chopra, Richard Rohr, Rupert Sheldrake, Matthew Fox, Cynthia Bourgeault, Ilia Delio, Keith Ward, John B. Cobb Jr., Loriliai Biernacki, Marjorie H. Suchocki and Rabbi Bradley Shavit Artson.As these diverse spiritual memoirs testify, for many today, the spiritual journey has lead to the discovery of a divine reality that, it turns out, we already inhabit, one that encompasses us all. Sometimes called "panentheism," this relational and participatory vision is allowing for a "return to God after God" and thus a continuation of the spiritual journey. Such a God is not found in some people and some places, but in everyone and everywhere.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrew M Davis and +1Philip Clayton•  14  Comparative Religion, Philosophical Theology, Spirituality, Christian MysticismThe Enlightenment Continuum: A Mathematical ModelSave to LibraryDownloadby Ed  Kellogg•  7  Philosophy of Mind, Philosophy Of Mathematics, Spirituality, Altered States of ConsciousnessHOW IMAGES TRAVERSE MIND OF GOD EVERYTHING IS IN THE MIND OF GOD (SOME CLEANING IS REQUIREDAS IT SAYS, WITH PICTURES AND TECHNICAL EXPLANATIONS.Save to LibraryDownloadby MIKE EMERY•  17  Hinduism, History, Environmental Science, Physics Dreams of Death. OMEGA: the Journal of Death and Dying, 1988, Vol. 19, p. 95-102.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deirdre Barrett•  375  Neuroscience, Psychology, Abnormal Psychology, Applied PsychologyAL-GHAZĀLĪ IN LITERATURE WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO HIS BIOGRAPHY AND THE ISSUE OF FAITH AND GOOD DEEDSThis study offers a brief analysis on some biographical works on Imām al-Ghazāli and his view on the issue of faith and good deeds through examination of various relevant literature. Imām al-Ghazāli has been regarded as one of the world's... moreThis study offers a brief analysis on some biographical works on Imām al-Ghazāli and his view on the issue of faith and good deeds through examination of various relevant literature. Imām al-Ghazāli has been regarded as one of the world's most influential thinkers as well as the greatest scholar Islam has ever produced. The life, teaching and thought of al-Ghazāli have attracted the attention of many scholars, both Western and non-Western. The influence of al-Ghazāli is not limited within his own tradition, but is felt both in the East and the West, reaching Jewish and Christian traditions. This study is theoretical in nature, and it involves bibliographic/library research. It surveys and offers a brief analysis of some literatures-mostly in English-that are relevant to al-Ghazāli's biography and his view on the issue of faith and good deeds. This study found that although there are some critical assessments and misunderstandings of al-Ghazāli's life and views, majority of literature consulted acknowledge his great scholarship and contributions in many aspects. Al-Ghazāli did not remain indifferent but indeed ardently refuted the various interpretations related to the issue of good deeds which he considered as heretical. The research also shows that not only al-Ghazāli always emphasised the observance of religious commandments, but he also breathed spirituality and gave deeper content and insight into the religious life.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohd Rosmizi•  3  Comparative Religion, Spirituality & Mysticism, Imam al-GhazaliAddressing the Johannine Riddles—A New IntroductionSave to LibraryDownloadby Paul N Anderson•  73  Christianity, History, Historical Archaeology, New TestamentReligia jako zjawisko społeczno-kulturowe – ujęcia teoretyczne a operacjonalizacja / Religion as a socio-cultural phenomenon - theoretical approaches and operationalizationNiniejszy tekst stanowi pierwszy rozdział książki: J. Morawiecki, Krajobraz po odwilży. Poradziecka tożsamość religijna mieszkańców współczesnych miast syberyjskich, Kraków 2018Save to LibraryDownloadby Jędrzej  Morawiecki•  16  Religion, Sociology of Religion, Russian Studies, SpiritualityTemple and Throne of the Divine Glory: "Pseudo-Macarius" and Purity of Heart, Together with Some Remarks on the Limitations and Usefulness of ScholarshipSave to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Golitzin•  26  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Patristics, Asceticism, Christian MysticismPsi-Perception in Dreams: Next Stop - the Twilight ZoneUntil the 1960's evidence for psi-dreaming (including precognitive dreams, telepathic dreams, clairvoyant dreams and mutual dreams) consisted mostly of anecdotal reports. However, at that point researchers at Maimonides Dream Laboratory... moreUntil the 1960's evidence for psi-dreaming (including precognitive dreams, telepathic dreams, clairvoyant dreams and mutual dreams) consisted mostly of anecdotal reports. However, at that point researchers at Maimonides Dream Laboratory (1) took the next step, and in a series of controlled scientific studies demonstrated that subjects could repeatedly tune into randomly selected external targets in their dreams. A meta-analysis of post-Maimonides studies of psi-dreaming by other researchers confirmed this effect (2).In a related area, research since the 1970’s in remote viewing has demonstrated that human beings in general have the ability to tune into designated targets outside of the range of their physical senses. In 1995 the CIA hired Dr. Jessica Utts, a professor of statistics at the University of California, Davis, to evaluate a series of remote viewing experiments done at the Stanford Research Institute. She concluded: "Using the standards applied to any other area of science, it is concluded that psychic functioning has been well established. The statistical results of the studies examined are far beyond what is expected by chance. Arguments that these results could be due to methodological flaws in the experiments are soundly refuted." (3) And it seems generally agreed that spontaneous dream-state psi occurs much more easily and often than waking-state psi.For theories on the nature of dreaming, the validation of dream-psi seems the equivalent of the Michelson-Morley experiment in physics, with the exception that few have realized the profound implications. For example, psi-dreaming has made strictly subjective, solipsistic theories of dreaming outdated and untenable. We need to change how we think about dreams, and to understand that dreaming involves a kind of perception.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ed  Kellogg•  8  Parapsychology, Philosophy of Mind, Spirituality, ConsciousnessPsychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative ReligionIn order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is anxiously seeking to find new therapies to address the increasing disorders within the human psyche. In the process new fields of research,... moreIn order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is anxiously seeking to find new therapies to address the increasing disorders within the human psyche. In the process new fields of research, such as humanistic and transpersonal psychology, curiously appear to borrow more and more from the wisdom of the ages. This volume, containing eighteen articles by noteworthy expositors of the perennial philosophy such as Huston Smith, Seyyed Hossein Nasr, and Frithjof Schuon, presents the spiritual psychology of the wisdom traditions as a much-needed antidote to the current impasse in modern psychology.Some Endorsements for Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy:“[Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy] is more than an anthology. It is a wisely crafted collection of classic and contemporary scholarship noting that what many are seeking is what has always been, a perennial philosophy, that remains foundational. As one of the authors, Tage Lindbom, properly notes, ‘Secularization is a fish in troubled waters.’ This book claims the waters and is essential reading for all those who may have forgotten or are simply ignorant of the rich foundation provided by the perennial philosophy.”—Ralph W. Hood, Professor of Psychology at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, past president of the Psychology of Religion division of the American Psychological Association, co-founder of The International Journal for the Psychology of Religion and co-author of The Psychology of Religion“A necessary and bracing critique of the assumptions and limitations of contemporary Western psychology, this generous volume is also a passionate call and learned guide towards a truer perspective that embraces man's spiritual nature.”—Gabor Maté, M.D., and author of In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts: Close Encounters with Addiction “Knowing the nature of the mind is perhaps the most difficult undertaking, especially in today’s world. To comprehend the nature of mind one needs to turn to the domain of religion and spirituality. Yet the truth of the mind and its complexity cannot explicitly be defined in words. Inner or transcendent wisdom sees the mind’s own nature without the duality of the seer. Suchness (tathatā) of mind is only experiential and not expressible. The words used to describe thought are themselves a product of thought, which is conditioned and limited. Thus, differences and contradictions are unavoidable. Therefore, a comparative study of different viewpoints and commentaries is immensely important to awaken the inner intelligence to see the mind as it is. Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative Religion edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is an outstanding effort in this direction.”—Samdhong Rinpoche, former Prime Minister (Kalon Tripa) of the Tibetan Government-in-exile, author of Uncompromising Truth for a Compromised World: Tibetan Buddhism and Today’s World “The rise of psychology has impacted the study and practice of spirituality, the experiences and attitudes relevant to ultimate human values that transcend ordinary behavior. Each chapter of this remarkable book demonstrates this interaction in a unique and provocative way. But rather than using psychology to reduce and ‘psychologize’ spiritual topics, its authors demonstrate how directives from the spiritual traditions can enhance and even illuminate the enduring importance of psychology in the 21st century.”—Stanley Krippner, Saybrook University, co-author of Spiritual Dimensions of Healing “The work at hand is a thinking and debating man’s delight. If you have any interest at all in attempting to include an educated and enlightened view of man’s higher functions in your purview of the world, you will learn from and enjoy this collection of essays. If you already have some knowledge in this area, brace yourself: you may see some of your favorites sharply criticized. A thought-provoking work.”—Bruce W. Scotton, University of California, San Francisco, co-editor of Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology “This book, superbly edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos, is a masterful critique of the field of psychology and its loss of the sacred ground in which it once was rooted. It offers depth psychologists an opportunity to contemplate timeless truths echoed through the centuries by perennial philosophers who have always claimed psyche is subordinate to Spirit. Although ignored in depth psychology’s early years due to prejudice and lack of understanding, this is a message today’s psychotherapists must take seriously. Human beings need a deeper and wider transpersonal vision of who and what we are, which the saints and sages of the world’s spiritual traditions have always pointed to. In psychotherapy with a therapist committed to such a vision, patients penetrate into their unconscious depths and not infrequently awaken to the Ground of all Being. Their suffering itself occurred because they had turned away from Spirit. Above all, this volume passionately calls upon depth psychology to remember its origin in the perennial wisdom at the core of the great religions. There is something of a polemic in these pages. It deserves to be considered by depth psychologists of all persuasions.” —Bryan Wittine, Transpersonal psychologist and Jungian psychoanalyst “This anthology from Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is a must reference for anyone who is interested in psychology and its relationship to spirituality, and in developing an inclusive dialogue between disciplines that favor an integral outlook on the person and his or her potential. Selections in this anthology will inspire us to reexamine the metaphysical underpinnings of psychology, and remind us how important it is to rise above science’s attempt to reduce the human being to an epistemic object.”—Sangeetha Menon, National Institute of Advanced Studies (Bangalore, India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Beyond Experience: Consciousness in Bhagavad Gita “This anthology has some of the most discerning essays and reviews on spirituality and psychology, which provide much-needed care and caution to all those engaged in bringing them together or who wish to do so in future. Therefore, it is a must-read for all those who teach, research, consult, or study in such frontier areas as transpersonal psychology, states of consciousness, mind-body relation, holistic health, Indian psychology, and so on. It will be an invaluable textbook for courses in these and other related areas. I congratulate the editor of the book.”—Kiran Kumar K. Salagame, University of Mysore (India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Psychology of Meditation: A Contextual Approach “One of the finest collections of essays on the Perennial Philosophy—a must-read for all psychologists who are engaged with spirituality and transpersonal psychology. The essays which critique modern psychology (including transpersonal psychology, and the framework of Carl Jung), in the light of the Perennial Philosophy are a revelation and make compelling reading. The book serves as a corrective to the excesses of modern psychology, and to this end Sotillos has done a commendable job. I for one will include the book in some of the graduate courses that I teach.”—Suneet Varma, University of Delhi, co-editor of Foundations of Indian Psychology “To its credit modern science by-and-large is becoming more cognizant of the essential connection between spirituality and psychological health and well-being and most of all its positive implications within the field of psychology. While there is ample data to document this in a plethora of academic journals and books, this new book Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy adds a novel contribution to the dialogue between psychology and spirituality, which captures many nuances that for the most part go unnoticed within these discussions, and last but not least, it provides a keen eye of discernment to understand this intricate relationship on a deeper level that is crucially needed. This work will be a valuable asset to students and long term mental health practitioners and professors alike who seek to better understand the relationship between psychology and spirituality.”—Harold G. Koenig, Duke University, Director of the Center for Spirituality, Theology and Health, co-author of The Handbook of Religion and HealthSave to LibraryDownloadby Samuel Bendeck Sotillos•  260  Religion, New Religious Movements, Comparative Religion, HistoryMenein as key to a mystical reading of John 15.Most of extensive research in the field of Biblical Studies on the Gospel of John in recent times has been characterized by its historical critical approaches with attention to its historical value, its relationship to other gospels, its... moreMost of extensive research in the field of Biblical Studies on the Gospel of John in recent times has been characterized by its historical critical approaches with attention to its historical value, its relationship to other gospels, its sources and its literary character. Recently a number of scholars began to read the Gospel in terms of its Spirituality and specifically its mystical nature. This trend reflects the increasing attention being paid to Biblical Spirituality and contemporary Hermeneutics that stressed that a Biblical text is not only informative in nature, but also transformative. Specialists like Sandra Schneiders have already read parts of John’s Gospel convincingly in this way, whilst Kees Waaijman published major work on the mystical interpretation of Biblical texts. These new and now established insights, as well as the research on Biblical mysticism by other leading scholars like Meeks and Dunn have not yet been applied to John 15. The groundbreaking work by Kanagaraj and DeConick are alos further explored. The text of John 15 contains mystical imagery and contents which contribute decisively to the understanding of the mystical nature of John’s Gospel. The research focused on menein (indwelling) which has a clear mystical meaning, is central to the passage and binds together the different images in the chapter.Save to LibraryDownloadby Adriaan J J Stander•  2  Spirituality & Mysticism, The gospel of John[2011] Profetesse e visionarie nel ducato sabaudo fra XVII e XVIII secolo: appunti da una ricerca", Ricerche di Storia Sociale e Religiosa LXXIX, 351-371Save to LibraryDownloadby Elisabetta Lurgo•  4  Modern History, XVIII century, Spirituality & Mysticism, ProphecyKnowing and Unknowing Reality - A Beginner's and Expert's Developmental Guide to Post-Metaphysical ThinkingIn one sense, this book is about the contemporary dialogue between science and spirituality, and more specifically, ways in which they do not "talk" well to each other—I offer a remedy for bridging that gap. One approach is to explore how... moreIn one sense, this book is about the contemporary dialogue between science and spirituality, and more specifically, ways in which they do not "talk" well to each other—I offer a remedy for bridging that gap. One approach is to explore how metaphysical/mystical thinking and rational/logical thinking manifest as modes of meaning-making within human consciousness—within your consciousness. That is, by getting to know these two modes of thinking within the individual psyche and within mundane experience, we find an opening to supporting society's dialogue between, and integration of, these modes of discourse.There have already been many attempts to integrate these two domains. For example: using quantum mechanics to explain consciousness; showing how stale science can be re- enchanted through a captivating story of the evolution of the cosmos; doing a statistical analysis of religious beliefs in a population; or fMRI measurements of the brains of meditation adepts. Yet spiritual thinking and scientific thinking are rarely integrated. Or to put it another way, the metaphysical claims and esoteric experiences of spirituality have an uneasy relationship with logical or "rational" modes of meaning-making. It is a given that science and rationality are important, both in their proven products in a technologically advanced society, and also in their ability to critique and sanitize the "irrationality" within metaphysical, religious, dogmatic, and emotion-laden thought. But the role of pre-rational making-making is less well appreciated; and when it is acknowledged, it is through its more romantic characteristics. One thing I will argue is that the pre-rational mind (its magical and mythical layers) is actually an essential foundation upon which all rational (including scientific) thought is built. The pre-rational layers, often maligned in modernity, contain life-and-meaning generative capacities that are sorely need. But that is getting ahead of our story.Here what I want to point out is what scientific (or hyper-rational) and spiritual (or religious and metaphysical) modes of discourse tend to have in common: the certainty or confidence of their claims. This text is, in one sense, a deep critique of how certainty is performed in both spiritual (or metaphysical) and scientific (or modern hyper-rational) circles—actually in all realms of thought and belief. I will argue for the increasing importance of "negative capability"—i.e. for humility, tolerance for uncertainty, and openness to multiple perspectives. —And for an appreciation of the (now proven) fundamental limitations of reason, logic, theoretical models, and even the foundational flaws in the ability for language and concepts to capture reality.That knowledge is incomplete and fallible and that beliefs tend to be biased—these are well-oiled aphorisms. But to develop a transformative and actionable understanding of personal meaning-making and social knowledge-building processes one needs a deepunderstanding of exactly how belief and knowledge are fallible. And it is a transformative or radical understanding that is called for. For most of humanity's history the main social "project" was about understanding and taming nature. We have entered a new era wherein the vast majority of human problems are caused by human nature, and so the most important inquiries now should be into self-understanding to allow the self- transformation and self-liberation that might, if we are lucky, reverse, or at least adapt to, the ultimately tragic ends that human "reason" has wrought through modern technologies and social structures."Know thyself" has become more than a philosophical and ethical imperative—it has become a species-existential one. And our focus here will be on knowing how and what we don't know—i.e. on unknowing. In another sense our exploration will be about the importance of reducing or releasing complexity in the psyche and in socio-cultural structures—at a time in which it might seem that we cannot avoid increasing complexity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tom Murray•  5  Metaphysics, Phenomenology, Science and Spirituality, Spirituality & MysticismReview Article of Richard Todd, The Sufi Doctrine of Man: The Metaphysical Anthropology of Sadr al-Din al-Qunawi (Journal of Qur'anic Studies, 2016)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohammed Rustom•  18  Religion, Metaphysics, Medieval Philosophy, Theology(zus. mit ALMUTH MÄRKER) Hunc tercium conscripsi cum maximo labore occultandi. Schwester N von Helfta und ihre 'Sonderausgabe' des Legatus diviniae pietatis Gertruds von Helfta in der Leipziger Handschrift Ms 827, in: Beiträge zur Geschichte der deutschen Sprache und Literatur 137 (2015), 248-296This article presents a manuscript that significantly enriches the textual corpus of ›Helfta Mysticism‹ with a series of hitherto unknown writings. Aside from this, it contains what is by some distance the oldest copy of the ›Legatus... moreThis article presents a manuscript that significantly enriches the textual corpus of ›Helfta Mysticism‹ with a series of hitherto unknown writings. Aside from this, it contains what is by some distance the oldest copy of the ›Legatus divinae pietatis‹, in the form of a ›special edition‹ that consists of excerpts from the known text as well as new material. This is preceded by a prologue and a florilegium which is marked in an epilogue as Gertrude’s own work. We argue that the epilogue of the florilegium, the prologue and the ›special edition‹ itself were probably composed by ›Sister N‹ of Helfta herself. The article provides a full description of the manuscript (Ms 827), a breakdown of the new ›special edition‹ of the ›Legatus‹-text, and an edition, translation, and close reading of the prologue.  Im Folgenden soll eine Handschrift vorgestellt werden, die die Textbasis der Helftaer Mystik mit einer Reihe von bislang unbekannten Schriften bereichert. Außerdem enthält sie die mit Abstand älteste Abschrift des ›Legatus divinae pietatis‹ in Form einer ›Sonderausgabe‹, die aus Exzerpten aus dem bekannten Textcorpus und aus weiterem bislang nicht bekanntem Material besteht. Dieser geht eine Vorrede und ein im Epilog als Gertruds Werk ausgewiesenes Florilegium voraus, Texte, die wie die ›Sonderausgabe‹ selbst von Schwester N von Helfta stammen dürften. Die vorliegende Studie bietet eine Beschreibung von Ms 827, die Aufschlüsselung der ›Sonderausgabe‹ des ›Legatus‹ sowie Abdruck, Übersetzung und inhaltliche Analyse der Vorrede.Save to LibraryDownloadby Balázs J . Nemes•  62  Women's Studies, Medieval Literature, Late Middle Ages, Women's HistoryHistoricism and/or Phenomenology in The Study Of Jewish Mysticism: Imagery Techniques in the Teachings of Rabbi Kalonymus Kalman Shapira as a Case Study, Modern Judaism 36, 1 (2016), pp. 1-16The mystical technique of imagery, i.e. visualizing an imaginary picture, found already in the earliest stages of Kabbalah, reached its peak in the teachings of R. Kalonymous Kalman Shapira, the Rebbe of Piazecna (1889-1943). Academic... moreThe mystical technique of imagery, i.e. visualizing an imaginary picture, found already in the earliest stages of Kabbalah, reached its peak in the teachings of R. Kalonymous Kalman Shapira, the Rebbe of Piazecna (1889-1943). Academic interest in exploring mystical phenomena solely within their historical, social and political contexts has increased in recent years. This article challenges the exclusive quest for historicization in the study of Jewish mysticism, using R. Shapira's remarkable mystical-imagery techniques as a case study. Through employing the concepts of “empowerment” and “intensification” as a lens for the study of mysticism in world religions, this article argues that R. Shapira used imagery techniques as a method for empowerment in ritual, both nomian and anomian, in order to transform normative religious acts into mystical experiences. These imagery exercises are not simply one technique among many. Nor do they just function as an alternative to the experiences made possible by secularism in the early twentieth century, as have been claimed in studies based on historical readings of his works. Historical research that negates a phenomenological perspective impedes the scholar from observing a variety of important insights. R. Shapira used imagery techniques as a powerful tool for intensifying all religious practices, transforming ordinary rituals into encounters with the Divine.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Reiser•  16  Religion, New Historicism, Spirituality, Jewish MysticismHaunted Bauhaus: Occult Spirituality, Gender Fluidity, Queer Identities, and Radical Politics, MIT Press*Winner of the Peter C. Rollins Prize for Best Book of the Year from the Northeast Popular Culture Association* An investigation of the irrational and the unconventional currents swirling behind the Bauhaus's signature sleek surfaces and... more*Winner of the Peter C. Rollins Prize for Best Book of the Year from the Northeast Popular Culture Association*An investigation of the irrational and the unconventional currents swirling behind the Bauhaus's signature sleek surfaces and austere structures.The Bauhaus (1919–1933) is one of the twentieth century's most influential art schools, celebrated as the archetypal movement of rational modernism and famous for bringing functional and elegant design to the masses. In Haunted Bauhaus, art historian Elizabeth Otto liberates Bauhaus history, uncovering a movement that is vastly more diverse and paradoxical than previously assumed. Otto traces the surprising trajectories of the school's engagement with occult spirituality, gender fluidity, queer identities, and radical politics. The Bauhaus, she shows us, is haunted by these untold stories.The Bauhaus is most often associated with a handful of famous artists, architects, and designers―notably Paul Klee, Walter Gropius, László Moholy-Nagy, and Marcel Breuer. Otto enlarges this narrow focus by reclaiming the historically marginalized lives and accomplishments of many of the more than 1,200 Bauhaus teachers and students (the so-called Bauhäusler), arguing that they are central to our understanding of this movement. Otto reveals Bauhaus members' spiritual experimentation, expressed in double-exposed “spirit photographs” and enacted in breathing exercises and nude gymnastics; their explorations of the dark sides of masculinity and emerging female identities in design; the “queer hauntology” of certain Bauhaus works; and the school's communist period (1928–1932), when Bauhäusler put their skills into the service of the revolution―even as Nazism emerged and entered the Bauhaus itself.With Haunted Bauhaus, Otto not only expands our knowledge of a foundational movement of modern art, architecture, and design, she also provides the first sustained investigation of the irrational and the unconventional currents swirling behind the Bauhaus's signature sleek surfaces and austere structures. This is a fresh, wild ride through the Bauhaus you thought you knew.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elizabeth Otto•  20  German Studies, Gender Studies, Queer Studies, DesignThe Crystal Womb as Window: The Katharinenthal ​V​isitation and Rhenish Female Monastic Mysticism c. 1300Attributed to Master Heinrich of Constance, a sculpture of the Visitation from the convent of St. Katharinenthal in the Lower Rhine Valley (ca. 1310­20) portrays Mary and her cousin Elizabeth with two quartz cabochons inserted into their... moreAttributed to Master Heinrich of Constance, a sculpture of the Visitation from the convent of St. Katharinenthal in the Lower Rhine Valley (ca. 1310­20) portrays Mary and her cousin Elizabeth with two quartz cabochons inserted into their torsos, rock crystal representations of their wombs, which nurture the fetal Christ and John the Baptist. These crystals make the ​Visitation a strikingly unique devotional object in the eyes of the modern viewer, but when considered in the context of the fourteenth­century German Dominican convent, they also provide insight into the devotional practices of their users, cloistered nuns. In this thesis, I explore the nature and function of this unique object of devotion in the context of the Katharinenthal convent specifically in addition to the wider Middle High German spiritual milieu, particularly Rhenish Mysticism. ​I take a multidisciplinary approach to the study of this medieval artwork by making use of a wide range of sources: works from this same period found at Katharinenthal and other convents around the Rhine valley, theological treatises concerning the Incarnation (and, therefore, the Marian womb) the visionary accounts of Henry Suso and other Rhineland mystics, and the work of such medieval art historians as Jeffrey Hamburger, Caroline Walker Bynum, and Jacqueline Jung. Jung in particular describes the bodies of Mary and Elizabeth in the ​Visitation as “exuberant,” “thrusting the evidence of [their] virtues outward toward beholders and rendering them visible through the body’s materiality rather than through any internal motifs.” (“Crystalline Wombs and Pregnant Hearts,” p. 234). In this thesis, I use Jung’s analysis of the sculpture as a starting point to propose a new, though not mutually exclusive, model for interpreting the function of these crystal wombs.In the first main section of the thesis, I examine the convent of Katharinenthal itself, a highly enclosed and communal female monastic environment, together with many of the surviving devotional objects from the convent around 1300 that formed Katharinenthal’s visual and material culture. The following section examines in closer detail the crystal wombs of the Visitation, considering both their theological connotations and their significance to medieval perception of the female body. The final section addresses the devotional function of Mary and Elizabeth’s crystal wombs by placing the ​Visitation within the context of both late medieval Euc​haristic theology and Rhenish mysticism. I conclude that the ​Visitation’s crystal wombs functioned as meditational foci, serving as “windows” into the visionary experience. These wombs, with their emphasis on transparency and interiority in their enclosed, conventual context, ultimately serve as a catalyst for mystical union with the divine.Save to LibraryDownloadby Josefa  Westerman•  11  German Studies, Art History, Feminist Theory, TheologyLaboratorio di mistica primavera/estate 2022Save to LibraryDownloadby Gaetano Lettieri•  20  Christianity, Philosophy, History of Christianity, SpiritualityConsensus Reality Testing in Lucid DreamsIn our waking lives, we usually assume that other people experience the world pretty much the way we do, even though under normal circumstances we rarely - if ever - check to see if this actually seems the case. But do we really? Studies... moreIn our waking lives, we usually assume that other people experience the world pretty much the way we do, even though under normal circumstances we rarely - if ever - check to see if this actually seems the case. But do we really? Studies on the reports of people who witness the same event, routinely show wide discrepancies with respect to both minor-and major details. And if this proves the case for people in physical reality, what might one expect to happen in dreams? Do the Dream Entities (DEs) that we encounter in dreams experience the same dreamscapes that we do? Of course, many western psychologists still believe that dreamscapes, and the DEs that dreamers encounter in them, derive entirely from the dreamer's mind, a view which makes the issue of consensus in this context nonsensical. Because of this underlying assumption, even today dreamworkers typically describe the entities that appear in their dreams as "characters," which conveys the impression that DEs not only lack any sort of independent consciousness, but that they seem akin to fictional characters appearing in a book. However, the validation of psi-dreaming (1,2) has made strictly subjective, solipsistic theories of dreaming outdated and untenable. Dreaming can clearly involve a kind of perception. (3) And evidential accounts of mutual dreaming, where two or more people encounter one another in dreams, confirmed later through consensually matching details, demonstrates that dreaming can have an intersubjective component as well. (4-6)Save to LibraryDownloadby Ed  Kellogg•  7  Parapsychology, Spirituality, Shamanism, Spirituality & MysticismMystical Humanism as Magical RealismSave to LibraryDownloadby rudolph bauer•  31  Philosophy, Philosophy of Mind, Psychotherapy, Existential Phenomenological PsychotherapyMysticism and Meaning: Multidisciplinary Perspectives, edited by Alex S. KohavA collection of essays that explores the many dimensions of the mystical, including personal, theoretical, and historical. Kohav, a professor of philosophy at the Metropolitan State College of Denver and the editor of this collection,... moreA collection of essays that explores the many dimensions of the mystical, including personal, theoretical, and historical. Kohav, a professor of philosophy at the Metropolitan State College of Denver and the editor of this collection, provocatively asks why mysticism is such an "objectionable" topic and considered intellectually disreputable. Borrowing from Jacques Derrida's distinction between aporia (or unsolvable confusion) and a solvable problem, the author suggests mystical phenomena are better understood through the lens of mysterium, that which is beyond the categories of reason and can only be captured by dint of intuition and personal experience. In fact, the contributors to this intellectually kaleidoscopic volume present several autobiographical accounts of precisely such an encounter with the mystically inscrutable. For example, in one essay, Gregory M. Nixon relates "the shattering moment in my life when I awoke from the dream of self to find being as part of the living world and not in my head." The religious dimensions of mystical experience are also explored: Buddhist, Christian, and Judaic texts, including the Bible, are examined to explicate and compare their divergent interpretations. Contributor Jacob Rump argues that the ineffable is central to Wittgenstein's worldview, and Ori Z. Soltes contends that philosophers like Socrates and Spinoza, famous for their valorization of reason, are incomprehensible without also considering the limits they impose on reason and the value they assign to ineffable experience. The collection is precisely as multidisciplinary as billed. It includes a wealth of varying perspectives, both personal and scholarly. Furthermore, the book examines the application of these ideas to contemporary debates. Richard H. Jones, for instance, challenges that mysticism and science ultimately converge into a single explanatory whole. The prose can be prohibitively dense--much of it is written in a jargon-laden academic parlance--and the book is not intended for a popular audience. Within a remarkably technical discussion of the proper interpretive approach to sacred texts, contributor Brian Lancaster declares: "For these reasons I propose incorporating a hermeneutic component to extend the integration of neuroscientific and phenomenological data that defines neurophenomenology." However, Kohav's anthology is still a stimulating tour of the subject, philosophically enthralling and wide reaching. An engrossing, diverse collection of takes on mystical phenomena.                                                                                                                                 - Kirkus Reviews  The volume investigates the question of meaning of mystical phenomena and, conversely, queries the concept of “meaning” itself, via insights afforded by mystical experiences. The collection brings together researchers from such disparate fields as philosophy, psychology, history of religion, cognitive poetics, and semiotics, in an effort to ascertain the question of mysticism’s meaning through pertinent, up-to-date multidisciplinarity. The discussion commences with Editor’s Introduction that probes persistent questions of complexity as well as perplexity of mysticism and the reasons why problematizing mysticism leads to even greater enigmas. One thread within the volume provides the contextual framework for continuing fascination of mysticism that includes a consideration of several historical traditions as well as personal accounts of mystical experiences: Two contributions showcase ancient Egyptian and ancient Israelite involvements with mystical alterations of consciousness and Christianity’s origins being steeped in mystical praxis; and four essays highlight mysticism’s formative presence in Chinese traditions and Tibetan Buddhism as well as medieval Judaism and Kabbalah mysticism. A second, more overarching strand within the volume is concerned with multidisciplinary investigations of the phenomenon of mysticism, including philosophical, psychological, cognitive, and semiotic analyses. To this effect, the volume explores the question of philosophy’s relation to mysticism and vice versa, together with a Wittgensteinian nexus between mysticism, facticity, and truth; language mysticism and “supernormal meaning” engendered by certain mystical states; and a semiotic scrutiny of some mystical experiences and their ineffability. Finally, the volume includes an assessment of the so-called New Age authors’ contention of the convergence of scientific and mystical claims about reality. The above two tracks are appended with personal, contemporary accounts of mystical experiences, in the Prologue; and a futuristic envisioning, as a fictitious chronicle from the time-to-come, of life without things mystical, in the Postscript. The volume contains thirteen chapters; its international contributors are based in Canada, United Kingdom, and the United States.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alex Shalom Kohav and +4harry huntBurt VoorheesGregory M NixonLouis Hébert•  14  Semiotics, Philosophy Of Religion, Chinese Studies, Christian MysticismShow us how to PrayAbstractThe writing of the following paper was inspired by the attempt to respond to many similar questions addressed to the author that simply posed: Dr. Sarfarazi will you please teach us how to pray?Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohsen Paul Sarfarazi•  17  Contemporary Spirituality, Spirituality, Sexuality and chivalry/courtly love, Science and SpiritualityThe Historical Jesus: Investigating the unthinkableA question important to Christology today is one that, potentially, could spell the end of Christianity as we know it. Did the historical Jesus exist? Was there a man called Jesus who lived in 1st century Palestine, preached a unique... moreA question important to Christology today is one that, potentially, could spell the end of Christianity as we know it. Did the historical Jesus exist? Was there a man called Jesus who lived in 1st century Palestine, preached a unique message of compassion and love, gathered a following of faithful disciples, was arrested and then later crucified by Roman authorities. Is this so called Jesus of history genuine and easily supported by historical evidence? The purpose of this study is to look at the available evidence, both biblical and non-biblical, presenting original manuscripts, commentary and current scholarship. What does come through strongly is the inability to make a water tight case for the existence of an historical Jesus. Furthermore, the possibility that the Jesus story may be a reworking of ancient pagan mythologies is particularly challenging.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mark Craig•  3  Historical Theology, Spirituality & Mysticism, Comparative Study of World ReligionsSpiritual Experience in Orthodoxy and the Pentecostal Concept of the Works of the Holy Spirit : a Comparative Study 
[subtitle:] Experienție spirituale în ortodoxie şi concepția penticostală despre lucrarea Duhului Sfânt : studiu comparatThis study explores common ground and affinities between Christian Orthodoxy and Pentecostalism in theology, spirituality, cosmology, anthropology and the understanding of rites and sacraments. The focus is on the understanding and... moreThis study explores common ground and affinities between Christian Orthodoxy and Pentecostalism in theology, spirituality, cosmology, anthropology and the understanding of rites and sacraments. The focus is on the understanding and perception of the Holy Spirit, with regard to spiritual experience, personal transformation and the life of the Church. It also reflects on the African religious heritage of Christianity in the formation of these forms of spiritual experience and expression. The role and development of African Instituted Churches is taken into view, aware of their common heritage with Pentecostalism and of their distinctness. The context of ecumenical exchange between Pentecostalism and the Roman Catholic Church and Orthodox Churches in the 20th century is considered as background for the realization of convergences. The growing awareness in both Pentecostalism and Orthodoxy of their common ground, based in the hermeneutics and spirituality of early Christianity is recognized and recommended as field for further engagement. The common affirmation of both Churches of a spiritual world view in contrast to the positivistic ‘naturalistic’ world view of secular Enlightenment – as distinct from the spiritual branch of Enlightenment in which Pentecostalism is rooted through Pietism – is recognized as common ground for mutual understanding and critical difference to mainstream Western secularism. This study thus aims at fostering a better mutual understanding of Pentecostal and Orthodox Churches and of their epistemological agreements with regard to the challenges of secular cultures.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ullrich R . Kleinhempel•  19  History of Religion, Spirituality, Orthodox Theology, PneumatologyTHE SPIRITUAL SUPERMARKETS: A CATHOLIC APPRAISAL ON THE CONTEMPORARY NEW AGE MOVEMENTS IN THE SUBCONTINENT OF INDIASave to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Antony•  4  Spirituality & Mysticism, INDIAN SPIRITUALITY, Catholic Faith, New Age MovementKabbalah and Freemasonry - Becoming One With GodFreemasons BELIEVE in the existence of the Supreme Being; Kabbalists KNOW that it exists. In the beginning there was only God and his endless Light. Then God had a CREATION THOUGHT. To create Creation and give it fulfillment of every... moreFreemasons BELIEVE in the existence of the Supreme Being; Kabbalists KNOW that it exists.In the beginning there was only God and his endless Light.Then God had a CREATION THOUGHT. To create Creation and give it fulfillment of every kind. MAN is the ultimate goal of creation that God had in mind when He decided to create the world. The spiritual and material worlds are there to help and serve man.There was no plan for man to suffer in any way. Death was not part of the plan either.This is how it was with the first man, Adam. He had direct contact with God. He was happy and fulfilled. He was just like his Creator.Then Adam sinned in Eden, thus breaking the covenant with God and the time of suffering and death ensued. The FALL OF MAN took place.God hid Himself from the direct human understanding by placing veils between himself and them.The purpose of life is to renew the state we once had. TO BECOME LIKE GOD AGAIN. To gradually remove the veils that separate us.That implies a complete change in human nature, from the selfish toward a giving and altruistic one. Only then will we correct and free the Soul.The Human Soul is a REAL ENTITY. It is our true BEING. The material body only serves as the means for correction of the Soul, so it would go back to its source and BECOME ONE WITH GOD AGAIN.This requires several reincarnations, but in the end, everyone will accomplish it and all human Souls will become one again, as they had been from the outset.Every event in our lives is a lesson sent directly by God for the purpose of improving our personality and correction of our Souls. The spiritual path is raising of consciousness, recognition of these lessons and the knowledge of things that we must correct in ourselves.The Path to Light is daily training and exercise.It is hard to walk it alone. There are tools to help us on the way.HAPPINESS is the basic parameter of whether we are on the right path. EVERY HUMAN BEING can become COMPLETELY FULFILLED, spiritually, health-wise, emotionally and materially in every way.This is not a New Age text; these are ancient pearls of wisdom that have been around since the dawn of time.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nebojsa Nikolic•  3  Spirituality & Mysticism, Freemasonry (Literature), KabbalahTantra and Indo-Aryan CivilizationAs the founder of a global movement of spiritually-oriented and socially-minded intellectuals, artists and writers called Renaissance Universal, Prabhat Rainjan Sarkar (1922-1990), a spiritual teacher (also known as Shrii Shrii... moreAs the founder of a global movement of spiritually-oriented and socially-minded intellectuals, artists and writers called Renaissance Universal, Prabhat Rainjan Sarkar (1922-1990), a spiritual teacher (also known as Shrii Shrii Anandamurti) and social philosopher, describes the interrelationship, clashes and inter-mixing between the indigenous people of early India with their Tantra-based civilization and the Aryans who migrated into India bringing their Vedic civilization. This spoken discourse was given in May 1959. It is one of a series of remarkable semi-annual Renaissance Universal discourses given by P. R. Sarkar after the founding of the Renaissance Universal movement. The discourse presents a strong challenge to traditional thinking about this important topic -- Richard Gauthier, Department of Chemistry and Physics, Santa Rosa Junior College, Santa Rosa, California, USA, 13 September, 2020.Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard Gauthier•  20  Hinduism, Spirituality, Yoga Meditation, Tantric StudiesHistoria de un alma (resumen)Resumen de Historia de un alma, manuscrito biográfico de Teresa de Lisieux.Save to LibraryDownloadby Otilio Herrera•  6  Spirituality, Spirituality & Mysticism, St Therese of Lisieux, TeologíaReview of the book: Renate Blumenfeld-Kosinski, The Strange Case of Ermine de Reims: A Medieval Woman Between Demons and Saints, Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015 (en Magic, Ritual and Witchcraft, 12:1 [2017], pp. 115-120 [ISSN: 1556-8547]).Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabián Alejandro Campagne•  8  Avignon (Medieval Church History), Spirituality & Mysticism, Spirit Possession (Anthropology), Early Modern European WitchcraftThe Overlooked Spiritual Teacher: Dr. Howard ThurmanThis article on the life and legacy of Dr. Howard Thurman is featured in the February 2015 issue of Peace Signs, the magazine of the Peace and Justice Support Network of Mennonite Church USA.Save to LibraryDownloadby Johonna McCants-Turner•  7  Black Studies Or African American Studies, Spirituality, Spirituality & Mysticism, Civil Rights MovementIslam as an Ethical Tradition of International RelationsThe paper discusses the role that Islamic values can play in articulating Islam as an ethical tradition that can shape the international relations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Muqtedar Khan•  145  Business Ethics, Religion, New Religious Movements, Comparative ReligionTree of Good and EvilSave to LibraryDownloadby Luke Barnesmoore•  20  Creative Writing, Critical Theory, Philosophy, MetaphysicsMaria Gaetana Agnesi tra Newton e Leibniz. Scienza, religiosità e autonomia femminile nell’Italia del Settecento, Aracne, Roma 2017 (Il “cannocchiale” dello storico: miti e ideologie, 39) [352 p.; dedicated to Enrica S. and Francesca Irene Z.; ISBN 978-88-255-0857-4], December 2017: Book Cover.Nel secolo dei Lumi spicca il nome di Maria Gaetana Agnesi nelle discussioni sulla validità delle teorie newtoniane, sul calcolo infinitesimale di Leibniz e Newton, sull'istruzione femminile e sul ruolo della donna nell'indagine... moreNel secolo dei Lumi spicca il nome di Maria Gaetana Agnesi nelle discussioni sulla validità delle teorie newtoniane, sul calcolo infinitesimale di Leibniz e Newton, sull'istruzione femminile e sul ruolo della donna nell'indagine scientifica. Nel confronto a distanza con Algarotti, la scienziata milanese promuove un newtonianesimo, delle donne e non "per le donne", dai tratti marcatamente neostoici. La pubblicazione delle Instituzioni analitiche, che le procurò fama e prestigio in Europa, segnò poi una svolta. Ammirata da Goldoni e definita immortale da Pietro Verri, Agnesi volle costruire una propria identità di scienziata e di donna autonoma nella dimensione etica dell'impegno sociale e dell'esperienza di fede, influenzata dalla spiritualità teatina e dalla religiosità di Muratori.In copertina: Filippo Morghen (1730-1807), Ritratto di Maria Gaetana Agnesi, incisione [realizzata da Francesco Pisante (1804-1889)], in «L'Omnibus pittoresco», Napoli 30 giugno 1842, anno quinto, n. 11 (collezione privata).Aracne CADST 39 - 18,00 euro. Il "cannocchIale" dello storIco: mItI e IdeologIe / 39 Collana fondata da Achille Olivieri e diretta da Daniele Santarelli.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefano Zen•  8  Modern History, Intellectual History, History of Mathematics, Intellectual History of EnlightenmentNostradamus, lorem ipsum ?Par une analyse lexicale systématique il est possible de reconnaître dans l’œuvre de Nostradamus plusieurs éléments sémiologiques appartenant au registre d’un syndrome obsessionnel associé au domaine autistique. Une étude comparative des... morePar une analyse lexicale systématique il est possible de reconnaître dans l’œuvre de Nostradamus plusieurs éléments sémiologiques appartenant au registre d’un syndrome obsessionnel associé au domaine autistique. Une étude comparative des Prophéties avec sa Lettre XLI permet aussi de confirmer que cette œuvre est celle d’un personnage mystique souffrant de singularités psycho-linguistiques ayant rendu son expression incompréhensible pendant longtemps. Mais l’exploitation des dernières connaissances scientifiques en neuro-psychiatrie appliquée aux domaines littéraire, historique et religieux autorise maintenant une bien meilleure intelligibilité des obscurités nostradamiennes. Refuser d’emprunter ce chemin escarpé conduit aussi à préfèrer la magie à la science, l’illusion au raisonnement critique et l’erreur à la pertinence. L’auteur démontre aussi que le médecin apothicaire, ayant lui-même déclaré souffrir de comitialité, laisse supposer avoir eu recours à une pharmacopée anxiolytique encore inconnue pour calmer ses troubles obsessionnels avivés par les turbulences d’une époque violemment agitée. Concernant l’astrologie, il appert que l’expression littéraire de cette Lettre adressée à un ami alchimiste s’accorde précisément avec une sémantique allégorique obsessionnelle, et non pas avec un délire matérialiste et profane. Éprouvant l’infernale désunion du lien social spirituel, l’enfant de marranes pronostiquait son évolution selon un schéma déjà scénarisé depuis l’Antiquité par les historiens et les philosophes. De tout cela il apparaît également que les quatrains excessivement redondants des Prophéties n’ont recyclé qu’un très petit nombre de prédictions publiées antérieurement par des auteurs déjà connus.Save to LibraryDownloadby lucien de luca•  13  Renaissance Humanism, Spirituality & Mysticism, Autism and Language, Mystical TheologyCondescension, anticipation, reciprocal ecstasies: theological reflections on early Christian readings of Isaiah 6 and Daniel 3In the biblical theophanies of Isaiah 6 and Daniel 3, divine condescension and human ascent constitute reciprocal ecstatic moves towards a divine–human encounter. The christological interpretation, widespread in early Christian reception... moreIn the biblical theophanies of Isaiah 6 and Daniel 3, divine condescension and human ascent constitute reciprocal ecstatic moves towards a divine–human encounter. The christological interpretation, widespread in early Christian reception history, further discerns in Isaiah 6 and Daniel 3 an anticipation of the radical condescension of the Logos-made-human and, conversely, an anticipation of the deifying ascent of humanity in Christ. Finally, the early Christian reading of Isaiah 6 and Daniel 3 as ‘christophanies’ – that is, as manifestations of the Logos-to-be-incarnate – also allows us a glimpse into the performative aspect and experiential claims of early Christian exegesis, broadly construed to also incorporate hymnography, iconography and ritual.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bogdan G Bucur•  20  Patristics, Early Christianity, Orthodox Theology, MysticismSpeaking Torah: Spiritual Teachings from Around the Maggid's Table (2 vol.)"The most powerful Hasidic teachings made accessible--from some of the world s preeminent authorities on Jewish thought and spirituality. Hasidism, a great movement of spiritual revival within Judaism, began in eighteenth-century Eastern... more"The most powerful Hasidic teachings made accessible--from some of the world s preeminent authorities on Jewish thought and spirituality.Hasidism, a great movement of spiritual revival within Judaism, began in eighteenth-century Eastern Europe and continues to have great influence on Jewish life today. A key tool of this revival was the oral sermon, using novel mystical readings of the Torah to open people s minds to thinking more profoundly about the texts and how the wisdom relates directly to their own lives. While Hasidic tales have become widely known to modern audiences, the teachings that stand at the very heart of Hasidism have remained a closed book for all except scholars. This fascinating selection--presented in two volumes following the weekly Torah reading and the holiday cycle, and featured in English and Hebrew--renders them accessible in an extraordinary way. Volume 1 covers Genesis, Exodus and Leviticus, and includes a history of early Hasidism and a summary of central religious teachings of the Maggid's school. Volume 2 covers Numbers and Deuteronomy and the holiday cycle, and includes brief biographies of the Hasidic figures. Each teaching is presented with a fresh translation and contemporary commentary that builds a bridge between the eighteenth and twenty-first centuries. And each teaching concludes with a dynamic round-table discussion between distinguished Jewish scholar Arthur Green and his closest students--the editors of this volume. They highlight the wisdom most meaningful for them, thus serving as a contemporary circle's reflections on the original mystical circle of master and disciples who created these teachings."Save to LibraryDownloadby Ariel Evan Mayse•  5  Jewish Studies, Mysticism, Spirituality & Mysticism, Kabbalah"The Great Call of the Hour": Hillel Zeitlin’s Yiddish Writings on YavnehHillel Zeitlin (1871-1942) was the leading figure of what may be called philosophical neo-Hasidism among Eastern European Jews in the pre-Holocaust era. A tireless author, journalist, and polemicist, he published constantly in both the... moreHillel Zeitlin (1871-1942) was the leading figure of what may be called philosophical neo-Hasidism among Eastern European Jews in the pre-Holocaust era. A tireless author, journalist, and polemicist, he published constantly in both the Yiddish and Hebrew press, offering a bold new vision of contemporary spiritual life grounded in his reading of Hasidic sources. But Zeitlin sought to become an activist as well as a literary figure. He was especially concerned with the situation of the rootless Jewish youth. Throughout his career as a public figure, beginning shortly after World War I, he issued calls for a new organization of Jewish life. In a series of articles published in the 1920s he sought to form an elite Jewish spiritual fraternity to be called Yavneh, the most fully elaborated of his attempts at intentional community. The present study collects together Zeitlin’s Yiddish writings on the Yavneh fellowship, which are here re-printed and translated for the first time. Alongside these we present a newly discovered manuscript signed by Zeitlin, a single-sheet four-sided signed text in which he describes more succinctly and clearly the nature of the group and its intended function.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ariel Evan Mayse•  15  Eastern European Studies, Yiddish Literature, Jewish Studies, Contemporary SpiritualityNehemia Polen, “Miriam’s Dance: Radical Egalitarianism in Hasidic Thought,” Modern Judaism 12:1 (February 1992): 1-21Save to LibraryDownloadby Nehemia Polen•  20  Jewish Studies, Feminist Theory, Dance Studies, Feminist PhilosophyArthur Green: An Intellectual PortraitSave to LibraryDownloadby Ariel Evan Mayse•  14  Jewish Studies, Theology, Spirituality, Jewish MysticismShaul Magid, “The Metaphysics of Malkhut: Malkhut as Eyn Sof in the Writings of Ya’akov Koppel of Mezritch,” Kabbalah, vol. 27 (2012): 245-268Save to LibraryDownloadby Shaul Magid•  9  Jewish Studies, Jewish Mysticism, Mysticism, Spirituality & MysticismThe Messianic Doctrine of the Lubavitcher Rebbe - Rabbi Menachem Mendel SchneersonA brief biography and exploration of the Lubavitcher Rebbe's Messanic Theology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Max A Kohanzad•  18  New Religious Movements, Philosophy Of Religion, Jewish Studies, Jewish MysticismHealing the Heart: A Randomized Pilot Study of a Spiritual Retreat for Depression in Acute Coronary Syndrome PatientsSave to LibraryDownloadby Brenda Gillespie•  24  Health Behavior, Depression, Spirituality, Cardiovascular"Die feurige Träne Marias". Die Flammen, denen Notre Dame zum Opfer fiel, reichen tief -Versuch einer kulturellen Ursachenforschung, in: Katholische Tagespost, 17.4.2019.Save to LibraryDownloadby David  Engels•  20  Christianity, Self and Identity, History of Christianity, SpiritualityThe Fourth BrainAn integrated philosophy for life and reconnecting ourselves to Nature and the Invisible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian  Tutundjian de Vartavan•  9  Human Evolution, Philosophy, Knowledge Management, Shamanism"The Journey that Changed the World"The Christmas Eve devotional essay, published by the M. J. Murdock Charitable Trust (pages 83-85 in A Book of Days: Christmas Reflections from the Northwest, Steven G. W. Moore and Richard Ganz SJ, eds.; Franklin, TN: Seedbed Publishing,... moreThe Christmas Eve devotional essay, published by the M. J. Murdock Charitable Trust (pages 83-85 in A Book of Days: Christmas Reflections from the Northwest, Steven G. W. Moore and Richard Ganz SJ, eds.; Franklin, TN: Seedbed Publishing, 2014)Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul N Anderson•  23  Religion, Christianity, Spirituality, Spiritual LeadershipArt AURA 2013 Ungd forest om alternativa extistentiella dimensioner DuppilsSave to LibraryDownloadby Sara Duppils•  5  Spirituality, Popular Culture and Religious Studies, Spirituality & Mysticism, SpiritismThe Place of Virgin Mary in the Ontology of Mystical ExperienceSave to LibraryDownloadby Serafim Seppälä•  20  Christian Mysticism, Comparative Mysticism, Spirituality & Mysticism, Gregory of NyssaDreaming, technology, miracles, and the ultimate goal of onenessThe Cartesian Theater, levels of dreams, lucid dreaming, and the technological and spiritual aspects of creating miracles are reduced to a goal of knowing the totality of nature, which is "oneness".Save to LibraryDownloadby Michael T Chase•  7  Technology, Spirituality, Spirituality & Mysticism, Spirituality & PsychologyNextLast »Related TopicsMysticismFollowFollowingChristian MysticismFollowFollowingSpiritualityFollowFollowingJewish MysticismFollowFollowingKabbalahFollowFollowingComparative MysticismFollowFollowingContemporary SpiritualityFollowFollowingGnosticismFollowFollowingReligionFollowFollowingReligious StudiesFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023