 BBC News | The Welsh Assembly | Structure and powers of the assembly
Front Page
World
UK
UK Politics
Business
Sci/Tech
Health
Education
Sport
Entertainment
Talking Point
In Depth
On Air
Archive
Feedback
Low Graphics
Help
Thursday, April 8, 1999 Published at 12:54 GMT 13:54 UK
Structure and powers of the assembly
Powers and the relationship with Westminster
Welsh Assembly's powers
Westminster's retained powers
Economic development
Agriculture, forestry, fisheries and food
Industry and training
Education
Local government
Health and personal social services
Housing
Environment
Town and country planning
Transport and roads
Arts, culture and the Welsh language
The built heritage
Sport and recreation
Tourism
Water and flood defence
Foreign Affairs
Defence
Taxation
Macro-economic Policy
Fiscal and Common Markets Policy
Broadcasting Policy
The Justice System and Prisons
Police and Fire Services
National Lottery and Related Matters
Social Security Benefits
Competition Policy
Labour Market Policy

The Welsh Assembly and its officials will take over the functions currently carried out by the secretary of state for Wales. 

To do so, it will have a similar budget to that enjoyed by the Welsh Office, currently Ł7bn a year.

The Welsh Assembly will not, however, have the same level of power and responsibility as that enjoyed by the Scottish Parliament. 

Westminster will retain control of primary legislative powers in all areas and the assembly is taking over secondary legislative powers only in those areas shown above. 

Primary legislation is effectively the type of law passed currently at Westminster in that it lays down the scope of legislation. It might, for example, say that there must be a national curriculum in schools. 

Secondary legislation governs the way the laws work in practice. Following the above example, it might allow the minister in charge to decide exactly which subjects the national curriculum contains.

While it can debate any matter it wishes, the Welsh Assembly has only these secondary powers and only in the above areas.

It will also have some powers over quangos, being able to question, monitor and reduce their numbers.

In addition, the secretary of state for Wales will continue to represent Welsh interests at meetings of the UK Cabinet. There will be a "close working relationship" between the secretary and the assembly, but he or she will not be bound by its views and though able to participate in debates, will not be able to vote.

The 40 Welsh MPs at Westminster will continue to play a full part in the House of Commons.
Structure of the Welsh Assembly

The 60 members of the new Welsh Assembly will sit initially at Cardiff's Crickhowell House. From the autumn of 2001, they will move to the new Assembly Building at Pier Head in Cardiff. 

Although the assembly will meet in the week after the election, the official opening is not until 26 May, when the ceremony will be carried out by the Queen and the Prince of Wales. 

The Members of the Welsh Assembly are likely to meet for three days a week and keep normal business hours, rather than follow the Westminster tradition of late-night sittings.

The political leader of the assembly will be elected by a majority vote of the members and will be known as the first secretary. He or she will appoint assembly secretaries, who will have responsibility for areas over which the assembly has powers, such as education or tourism. 

Each of these areas will have a specialist committee, made up of MWAs from all parties represented in the assembly according to their strength. The relevant assembly secretary will also sit on these committees.

The specialist committees will report to the executive committee, a body made up of all the assembly secretaries and headed by the first secretary, who will be responsible to the assembly for its actions.

The members will elect from among their number a presiding officer and a deputy to perform a similar role to the Speaker in the House of Commons - chairing and keeping order during meetings.

The assembly will sit for four years between elections, so the next ones will take place in May 2003, then 2007 and so on. 

Advanced options | Search tips
Back to top | BBC News Home | BBC Homepage | ©
NEWS
RESULTS
THE WELSH ASSEMBLY
PARTIES AND ISSUES
INTERACTIVE
OPINION POLLS
YOUR VIEWS
ARCHIVE