Lombard language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Origins
2Status
Toggle Status subsection
2.1Speakers
3Classification
Toggle Classification subsection
3.1Varieties
4Literature
5Usage
Toggle Usage subsection
5.1In Switzerland
5.2In Italy
6Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
6.1Consonants
6.2Vowels
7See also
8Notes
9References
10Sources
11External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Lombard language
82 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBân-lâm-gúБългарскиBoarischCatalàČeštinaCorsuDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEmiliàn e rumagnòlEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisFurlanGaeilgeGaelgGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoКомиLadinLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarمصرىBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanپنجابیPapiamentuPicardPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRomânăRumantschРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduSicilianuSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng Việt吴语粵語ZazakiŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooks
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Gallo-Italic language spoken in the Italian region of Lombardy
For the extinct 6th-century Germanic language, see Lombardic language.
Lombardlombard, lumbaart, lombartNative toItaly, SwitzerlandRegionItaly[1][2][3]
Lombardy
Piedmont
South Tyrol
Trentino
Switzerland[1][2][3]
Grisons
Ticino
Brazil[4]
Santa Catarina
Native speakers3.8 million (2002)[5]Language familyIndo-European
ItalicRomanceWestern RomanceGallo-RomanceGallo-ItalicLombardDialects
Western Lombard
Eastern Lombard
Language codesISO 639-3lmoGlottologlomb1257Linguasphere51-AAA-oc & 51-AAA-odLombard language distribution in Europe:
  Areas where Lombard is spoken
  Areas where Lombard is spoken alongside other languages (Alemannic, Ladin and Romansh) and areas of linguistic transition (with Piedmontese, with Emilian and with Venetian)
  Areas of influence of Lombard (Tridentine dialect)
? Areas of uncertain diffusion of LadinLombard is classified as Definitely Endangered by the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in DangerThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
The Lombard language (native name: lombard,[N 1] lumbaart,[N 2][6] lumbart[N 3] or lombart,[N 4] depending on the orthography; pronunciation: [lũˈbaːrt, lomˈbart]) belongs to the Gallo-Italic family,[7] and consists of a cluster of homogeneous dialects spoken by millions of speakers in Northern Italy and southern Switzerland, including most of Lombardy and some areas of the neighbouring regions, notably the eastern side of Piedmont and the western side of Trentino, and in Switzerland in the cantons of Ticino and Graubünden.[8] It is a language also spoken in Santa Catarina in Brazil by Lombard immigrants from the Province of Bergamo.[4][9]
Origins[edit]
The most ancient linguistic substratum that has left a mark on the Lombard language is that of the ancient Ligures.[10][11] However, available information about the ancient language and its influence on modern Lombard is extremely vague and limited.[10][11] This is in sharp contrast to the influence left by the Celts, who settled in Northern Italy and brought their Celtic languages and also culturally and linguistically Celticised the Ligures.[12] The Celtic substratum of modern Lombard and the neighbouring languages of Northern Italy is self-evident, so the Lombard language is classified as a Gallo-Italic language (from the ancient Roman name for the Celts, Gauls).[10]
Roman domination shaped the dialects spoken in the area, which was called Cisalpine Gaul by the Romans, and much of the lexicon and grammar of the Lombard language have their origin in Latin.[12] However, this influence was not homogeneous;[10] idioms of different areas were influenced by previous linguistic substrata and each area was marked by a stronger or weaker Latinisation, or the preservation of ancient Celtic characteristics.[10]
The Germanic Lombardic language also left strong traces in modern Lombard, as it was the variety of Germanic spoken by the Germanic Lombards (or Longobards), who settled in Northern Italy (called Greater Lombardy after them) and other parts of the Italian Peninsula after the fall of the Western Roman Empire. Lombardic acted as a linguistic superstratum on Lombard and neighboring Gallo-Italic languages, since the Germanic Lombards did not impose their language by law on the Gallo-Roman population but rather acquired the Gallo-Italic language from the local population. Lombardic left traces, mostly in lexicon and phonetics, without Germanicising the local language in its structure, and so Lombard preserved its Romance structure.[13]
Status[edit]
Lombard is considered a minority language that is structurally separate from Italian, by Ethnologue and by the UNESCO Red Book on Endangered Languages. However, Italy and Switzerland do not recognize Lombard-speakers as a linguistic minority. In Italy, that is the same as for most other minority languages,[14] which have been for long time incorrectly devalued as corrupted regional dialects of Italian although they belong to different subgroups of the Romance language family, and their historical development is not related to Standard Italian, which is derived from Tuscan.[15]
Speakers[edit]
A Lombard speaker
Historically, the vast majority of Lombards spoke only Lombard as "Italian" was merely a literary language and most Italians were not able to read or write.[16] Following the Italian economic miracle, Standard Italian arose throughout Italy and Lombard-speaking Switzerland, wholly-monolingual Lombard-speakers became a rarity as time went by, but a small minority may still be uncomfortable speaking Standard Italian. Surveys in Italy find that all Lombard-speakers also speak Italian, and their command of each of the two languages varies according to their geographical position as well as their socio-economic situation. The most reliable predictor was found to be the speaker's age: studies have found that young people are much less likely to speak Lombard as proficiently as their grandparents.[17] In some areas, elderly people are more used to speaking Lombard than Italian even though they know both.
Classification[edit]
Chart of Romance languages based on structural and comparative criteria
Lombard belongs to the Gallo-Italic (Cisalpine) group of Gallo-Romance languages, which belongs to the Western Romance subdivision.[18]
Varieties[edit]
Traditionally, the Lombard dialects have been classified into the Eastern, Western, Alpine and Southern Lombard dialects.[19]
The varieties of the Italian provinces of Milan, Varese, Como, Lecco, Lodi, Monza and Brianza, Pavia and Mantua belong to Western Lombard, and the provinces of Bergamo, Brescia and Cremona are dialects of Eastern Lombard. All varieties spoken in the Swiss areas (both in the Canton of Ticino and the Canton of Graubünden) are Western, and both Western and Eastern varieties are found in the Italian areas.
The varieties of the Alpine valleys of Valchiavenna and Valtellina (Sondrio) and upper-Valcamonica (Brescia) and the four Lombard valleys of the Swiss canton of Graubünden have some peculiarities of their own and some traits in common with Eastern Lombard but should be considered Western.[citation needed] Also, dialects from the Piedmontese provinces of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola and Novara, the Valsesia valley (province of Vercelli), and the city of Tortona are closer to Western Lombard than to Piedmontese.[citation needed] Alternatively, following the traditional classification, the varieties spoken in parts of Sondrio, Trentino, Ticino and Grigioni can be considered as Alpine Lombard,[20] and those spoken in southern Lombardy such as in Pavia, Lodi, Cremona and Mantova can be classified as Southern Lombard.[21]
Literature[edit]
Main article: Western Lombard literature
The Lombard variety with the oldest literary tradition (from the 13th century) is that of Milan, but Milanese, the native Lombard variety of the area, has now almost completely been superseded by Italian from the heavy influx of migrants from other parts of Italy (especially from Apulia, Sicily and Campania) during the rapid industrialization after the Second World War.
Ticinese is a comprehensive denomination for the Lombard varieties that are spoken in Swiss canton Ticino (Tessin), and the Ticinese koiné is the Western Lombard koiné used by speakers of local dialects (particularly those diverging from the koiné itself) when they communicate with speakers of other Lombard dialects of Ticino, Grigioni or Italian Lombardy. The koiné is similar to Milanese and the varieties of the neighbouring provinces on the Italian side of the border.
There is extant literature in other varieties of Lombard like La masséra da bé, a theatrical work in early Eastern Lombard, written by Galeazzo dagli Orzi (1492–?) presumably in 1554.[22][failed verification]
Usage[edit]
Detailed geographic distribution of Lombard dialects  Legend: L01 – Western Lombard; L02 – Eastern Lombard; L03 – Southern Lombard; L04 – Alpine Lombard
Standard Italian is widely used in Lombard-speaking areas. However, the status of Lombard is quite different in the Swiss and Italian areas and so the Swiss areas have now become the real strongholds of Lombard.
In Switzerland[edit]
The LSI, published in 2004 In the Swiss areas, the local Lombard varieties are generally better preserved and more vital than in Italy. No negative feelings are associated with the use of Lombard in everyday life, even with complete strangers. Some radio and television programmes, particularly comedies, are occasionally broadcast by the Swiss Italian-speaking broadcasting company in Lombard. Moreover, it is common for people to answer in Lombard in spontaneous interviews. Even some television advertisements have been broadcast in Lombard. The major research institution working on Lombard dialects is in Bellinzona, Switzerland (CDE – Centro di dialettologia e di etnografia, a governmental (cantonal) institution); there is no comparable institution in Italy. In December 2004, it released a dictionary in five volumes, covering all Lombard varieties spoken in the Swiss areas.[N 5]
In Italy[edit]
A Lombard-speaker, recorded in Italy
Today, in most urban areas of Italian Lombardy, people under 40 years old speak almost exclusively Italian in their daily lives because of schooling and television broadcasts in Italian. However, in rural areas, Lombard is still vital and used alongside Italian.
A certain revival of the use of Lombard has been observed in the last decade. The popularity of modern artists singing their lyrics in Lombard dialects (in Italian rock dialettale, the best known of such artists being Davide Van de Sfroos) is also a relatively-new but growing phenomenon involving the Swiss and the Italian areas.[citation needed]
Lombard is spoken in Campione d'Italia, an exclave of Italy that is surrounded by Swiss territory on Lake Lugano.
Phonology[edit]
The following tables show the sounds that are used in all Lombard dialects.
Consonants[edit]
Consonant phonemes[23]
Labial
Alveolar
(Palato-)
alveolar
Velar
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
(ŋ)
Stop
voiceless
p
t
k
voiced
b
d
ɡ
Affricate
voiceless
t͡s
t͡ʃ
voiced
d͡z
d͡ʒ
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
ʃ
voiced
z
ʒ
Approximant
central
ʋ
j
w
lateral
l
(ʎ)
Trill
r
In Eastern Lombard and Pavese dialect[citation needed], /dz/, /z/ and /ʒ/ merge to [z] and /ts/ and /s/ and /ʃ/ to [s]. In Eastern Lombard, the last sound is often further debuccalized to [h].
Vowels[edit]
Vowel phonemes[24]
Front
Central
Back
Unrounded
Rounded
High
i iː
y yː
u uː
Mid
e eː
ø øː
o
ɛ
(œ)[25]
ɔ
Low
a aː
In Western varieties, vowel length is contrastive (Milanese andà "to go" and andaa "gone"),[26] but Eastern varieties normally use only short allophones.
Two repeating orthographic vowels are separated by a dash to prevent them from being confused with a long vowel: a-a in ca-àl "horse".[26]
Western long /aː/ and short /ø/ tend to be back [ɑː] and lower [œ], respectively, and /e/ and /ɛ/ may merge to [ɛ].
See also[edit]
Diachronics of plural inflection in the Gallo-Italian languages
Emilian-Romagnol language
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
La Spezia–Rimini Line
Languages of Europe
Ligurian language
Piedmontese language
Pierre Bec
Romance plurals
Venetian language
Notes[edit]
^ Classical Milanese orthography, Scriver Lombard [lmo] and New Lombard Orthography [lmo].
^ Ticinese orthography.
^ Modern Western orthography.
^ Eastern unified orthography.[clarification needed]
^ "Lessico dialettale della Svizzera italiana (LSI)" [Dialectal Lexicon of Italian Switzerland (LSI)], Centro di dialettologia e di etnografia (in Italian), archived from the original on 23 November 2005
References[edit]
^ a b Minahan, James (2000). One Europe, many nations: a historical dictionary of European national groups. Westport.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ a b Moseley, Christopher (2007). Encyclopedia of the world's endangered languages. New York.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ a b Coluzzi, Paolo (2007). Minority language planning and micronationalism in Italy. Berne.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ a b Spoken in Botuverá, in Brazil, municipality established by Italian migrants coming from the valley between Treviglio and Crema. A thesis of Leiden University about Brasilian Bergamasque: [1].
^ Lombard at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ "Vocabolario dei dialetti della Svizzera italiana - CDE (DECS) - Repubblica e Cantone Ticino" [Vocabulary of Swiss Italian dialects]. www4.ti.ch. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
^ "Documentation for ISO 639 identifier: LMO". Identifier: LMO - Language(s) Name: Lombard - Status: Active - Code set: 639-3 - Scope: Individual - Type: Living
^ Jones, Mary C.; Soria, Claudia (2015). "Assessing the effect of official recognition on the vitality of endangered languages: a case of study from Italy". Policy and Planning for Endangered Languages. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. p. 130. ISBN 9781316352410. Archived from the original on 21 April 2017 – via Google Books. Lombard (Lumbard, ISO 639-9 lmo) is a cluster of essentially homogeneous varieties (Tamburelli 2014: 9) belonging to the Gallo-Italic group. It is spoken in the Italian region of Lombardy, in the Novara province of Piedmont and in Switzerland. Mutual intelligibility between Lombard and Italian has been reported as very low (Tamburelli 2014). Although some Lombard varieties, Milanese in particular, enjoy a rather long and prestigious literary tradition, Lombard is now used mostly in informal domains. According to Ethnologue, Piedmontese and Lombard are respectively spoken by between 1,600,000 and 2,000,000 speakers and around 3,500,000 speakers. Those are very high figures for languages that have never been recognised officially or systematically taught in schools.
^ Bonfadini, Giovanni. "lombard, dialects" [lombard dialects]. Enciclopedia Treccani (in Italian).
^ a b c d e Agnoletto 1992, p. 120.
^ a b D'Ilario 2003, p. 28.
^ a b D'Ilario 2003, p. 29.
^ "Il milanese crogiuolo di tanti idiomi" [The Milanese melting pot of many languages] (in Italian). Archived from the original on 24 September 2017.
^ Coluzzi, P. (2004). Regional and Minority Languages in Italy. Marcator Working Papers. Vol. 14.
^ von Wartburg, W. (1950). Die Ausgliederung der romanischen Sprachräume [The spin-off of the Romance language areas] (in German). Bern: Francke.
^ De Mauro, T. (1970). Storia linguistica dell'Italia unita [Linguistic history of unified Italy] (in Italian) (Second ed.). Laterza, Berkeley.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ 2006 report Archived 2010-07-04 at the Wayback Machine by the Italian institute for national statistics. (ISTAT)
^ Tamburelli, Marco; Brasca, Lissander (2018). "Revisiting the classification of Gallo-Italic: a dialectometric approach". Digital Scholarship in the Humanities. 33 (2): 442–455. doi:10.1093/llc/fqx041.
^ "Lingua lombarda" [Lombard language]. Lingua Lombarda (in Italian). Circolo Filologico Milanese.
^ "Lombardo alpino" [Alpine Lombard]. Lingua Lombarda (in Italian). Circolo Filologico Milanese.
^ "Lombardo meridionale" [Southern Lombard]. Lingua Lombarda (in Italian). Circolo Filologico Milanese.
^ Produzione e circolazione del libro a Brescia tra Quattro e Cinquecento: atti della seconda Giornata di studi "Libri e lettori a Brescia tra Medioevo ed età moderna" Valentina Grohovaz (Brescia, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore) 4 marzo 2004. Published by "Vita e Pensiero" in 2006, ISBN 88-343-1332-1, ISBN 978-88-343-1332-9 (Google Books).
^ Sanga, Glauco (1984). Dialettologia Lombarda [Lombard dialectology] (in Italian). University of Pavia. pp. 283–285.
^ Sanga, Glauco (1984). Dialettologia Lombarda (in Italian). University of Pavia. pp. 283–285.
^ [œ] occurs in most areas of the language but may overlap in usage with [ø], as they both share the same trigram (oeu).
^ a b Sanga, Glauco (1984). Dialettologia Lombarda (in Italian). University of Pavia. pp. 283–285.
Sources[edit]
Agnoletto, Attilio (1992). San Giorgio su Legnano - storia, società, ambiente. SBN IT\ICCU\CFI\0249761.
D'Ilario, Giorgio (2003). Dizionario legnanese. Artigianservice. SBN IT\ICCU\MIL\0625963.
Bernard Comrie, Stephen Matthews, Maria Polinsky (eds.), The Atlas of languages: the origin and development of languages throughout the world. New York 2003, Facts On File. p. 40.
Brevini, Franco - Lo stile lombardo: la tradizione letteraria da Bonvesin da la Riva a Franco Loi / Franco Brevini - Pantarei, Lugan - 1984 (Lombard style: literary tradition from Bonvesin da la Riva to Franco Loi )
Glauco Sanga: La lingua Lombarda, in Koiné in Italia, dalle origini al 500 (Koinés in Italy, from the origin to 1500), Lubrina publisher, Bèrghem.
Claudio Beretta: Letteratura dialettale milanese. Itinerario antologico-critico dalle origini ai nostri giorni - Hoepli, 2003.
G. Hull: "The linguistic Unity of Northern Italy and Rhaetia, PhD thesis, University of Sydney, 1982; published as The Linguistic Unity of Northern Italy and Rhaetia: Historical Grammar of the Padanian Language, 2 vols. Sydney: Beta Crucis Editions, 2017.
Jørgen G. Bosoni: «Una proposta di grafia unificata per le varietà linguistiche lombarde: regole per la trascrizione», in Bollettino della Società Storica dell’Alta Valtellina 6/2003, p. 195-298 (Società Storica Alta Valtellina: Bormio, 2003). A comprehensive description of a unified set of writing rules for all the Lombard varieties of Switzerland and Italy, with IPA transcriptions and examples.
Tamburelli, M. (2014). Uncovering the 'hidden' multilingualism of Europe: an Italian case study. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 35(3), 252-270.
NED Editori: I quatter Vangeli de Mattee, March, Luca E Gioann - 2002.
Stephen A. Wurm: Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger of Disappearing. Paris 2001, UNESCO Publishing, p. 29.
Studi di lingua e letteratura lombarda offerti a Maurizio Vitale, (Studies in Lombard language and literature) Pisa: Giardini, 1983
A cura di Pierluigi Beltrami, Bruno Ferrari, Luciano Tibiletti, Giorgio D'Ilario: Canzoniere Lombardo - Varesina Grafica Editrice, 1970.
Sanga, Glauco. 1984. Dialettologia Lombarda. University of Pavia. 346pp.
External links[edit]
 Lombard  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Far Lombard This Lombard language association website is a place where you can learn Lombard through texts and audio visual materials.
Lombard language digital library
Learn Lombard online
Learn Lombard Italian site
Centro di dialettologia e di etnografia del Cantone Ticino.
Repubblica e Cantone Ticino Documenti orali della Svizzera italiana. (in Italian)
Istituto di dialettologia e di etnografia valtellinese e valchiavennasca.
LSI - Lessico dialettale della Svizzera italiana.
RTSI: Acquarelli popolari, some video and audio documents (interviews, recordings, etc. of writers from Ticino) in Ticinese varieties (the metalanguage of this site is Italian, and some of the interviews are in Italian rather than in Ticinese Lombard).
UNESCO Red Book on Endangered Languages: Europe. Potentially endangered languages, where Lombard is classified as a potentially endangered language.
VSI - Vocabolario dei dialetti della Svizzera italiana.
in_lombard website dedicated to the Lombard language (in English)
Lombard basic lexicon at the Global Lexicostatistical Database
Lombard Wiktionary in incubator
vte Languages of ItalyHistorical linguistic minorities: Albanian, Catalan, Croatian, French, Franco-Provençal, Friulian, Germanic, Greek, Ladin, Occitan, Romani, Sardinian, Slovene, WenzhouneseItalo-DalmatianItalian
Regional Italian
Tuscan
Florentine
Central
Central-Northern Latian
Marchigiano
Romanesco
Sabino
Intermediate Southern(Neapolitan)
Beneventano
Barese
Castelmezzanese
Cilentan
Cosentino
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Extreme Southern
Central-Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Other Italo-Dalmatianlanguages
Corsican
Gallurese
Sassarese
SardinianSardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Occitano-RomanceCatalan
Algherese
Occitan
Vivaro-Alpine
Mentonasc
Niçard
Gallo-RomanceFrench
Aostan
Franco-Provençal
Valdôtain
Faetar
Cellese
Gallo-ItalicLigurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Lombard
Western Lombard
Brianzöö dialects
Canzés
Bustocco and Legnanese
Comasco-Lecchese dialects
Comasco
Laghée
Vallassinese
Lecchese
Milanese
Ticinese
Ossolano
Varesino
Southwestern Lombard
Pavese
Novarese
Cremunés
Spasell
Eastern Lombard
Bergamasque
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Other Gallo-Italiclanguages
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Judeo-Italian
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Piedmontese
Venetian[a]Venetian
Fiuman
Triestine
Rhaeto-RomanceRhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Ladin
Cadorino
Fornes
Nones
Italy portalAlbanianArbëresh language
Arbëresh
Vaccarizzo Albanian
South SlavicSlovene
Brda
Gail Valley
Inner Carniolan
Istrian
Karst
Natisone Valley
Resian
Torre Valley
Serbo-Croatian
Slavomolisano
Triestine Serbian
GreekItaliot Greek
Calabrian Greek
Griko
GermanBavarian
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Other German dialects
Austrian German
Walser
Yiddish
Others
Hebrew
Italian Hebrew
Italian Sign Language
Romani
Sinte Romani
Wenzhounese
^ Venetian is either grouped with the rest of the Italo-Dalmatian or the Gallo-Italic languages, depending on the linguist.
vte Languages of SwitzerlandOfficial languages
French
German
Italian
Romansh
Major dialect groups
Lombard (Ticinese)
Romand
Sinte
Swiss German
Sign languages
Swiss-German Sign
French Sign
Italian Sign
vteRomance languages (classification)Major branches
Eastern
Italo-Western
Italo-Dalmatian
Western
Southern
Eastern
Aromanian
Istro-Romanian
Megleno-Romanian
Romanian
dialects
Banat
Bukovinian
Crișana
Maramureș
Moldavian
Transylvanian
Wallachian
Common Romanian
Italo-DalmatianCentral
Central dialects
Central Marchigiano
Ancona
Fabriano
Macerata
Central−Northern Latian
Romanesco
Sabino
Corsican
Gallurese
Italian
Italo-Australian
Regional Italian
Swiss Italian
Sassarese
Tuscan
Florentine
Southern
Extreme Southern Italian
Central−Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Neapolitan–Calabrese
Neapolitan
Barese
Benevento
Castelmezzano
Cilentan
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Northern Calabrian
Southern Italian Koiné
Others
Dalmatian
Istriot
Judaeo-Italian
WesternGallo-Italic
Emilian-Romagnol
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Gallo-Picene
Ligurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Judeo-Italian
Lombard
Eastern
Bergamasque
Western
Brianzöö
Canzés
Bustocco–Legnanese
Comasco–Lecchese
Comasco
Laghée
Lecchese
Vallassinese
Milanese
Ossolano
Southwestern
Cremunés
Novarese
Pavese
Ticinese
Varesino
Piedmontese
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Gallo-RomanceLanguesd'oïl
Angevin
Berrichon
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
Gallo
French
Jersey
Meridional
North American dialects
Canadian
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay French
Brayon
Newfoundland
Quebec
Joual
Magoua
Franco-Ontarian
Métis
Muskrat
New England
Frenchville
Louisiania
Houma
Missouri French
Creoles
Lorrain
Welche
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Sercquiais
Orléanais
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Faetar
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Moselle Romance
Ibero-Romance(WestIberian)Asturleonese
Asturian
Western Asturian
Cantabrian
Leonese
Mirandese
Galician-Portuguese
Fala
Galician
Galician-Asturian/Eonavian
Minderico
Portugis
Portuguese
dialects
African
Asian
Brazilian
Mineiro
European
Estremenho
Uruguayan
Creoles
Judaeo-Portuguese
Castilian
Amazonic Spanish
Extremaduran
Judaeo-Spanish
Spanish
dialects
Equatoguinean
Latin American
Peruvian
Peruvian Ribereño
Peninsular
Andalusian
Llanito
Castilian
Castrapo
Castúo
Murcian
Philippine
Saharan
Creoles
Old Spanish
Others
Andalusi Romance
Barranquenho (mixed Portuguese–Spanish)
Caló (mixed Romani–Ibero- and Occitano-Romance)
Navarro-Aragonese
Aragonese
Judaeo-Aragonese
Occitano-Romance
Catalan
dialects
Eastern
Algherese
Balearic
Menorcan
Central
Northern
Judaeo-Catalan
Patuet
Western
Catalan Ribagorçan
Valencian
Occitan
Auvergnat
Gascon
Aranese
Béarnese
Landese
Judeo-Gascon
Judeo-Provençal
Languedocien
Limousin
Provençal
Niçard
Vivaro-Alpine
Gardiol
Mentonasc
Old Occitan
Old Catalan
Rhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Fornes
Ladin
Cadorino
Nones
Romansh
Jauer
Putèr
Surmiran
Sursilvan
Vallader
Others
Mediterranean Lingua Franca (Western Romance-based pidgin)
Venetian (unknown further classification)
Chipilo
Fiuman
Talian
Triestine
Others
African Romance
British Latin
Pannonian Romance
Sardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Reconstructed
Proto-Romance
Italics indicate extinct languages
Bold indicates languages with more than 5 million speakers
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control: National 
Germany
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lombard_language&oldid=1170846919"
Categories: Lombard languageLanguages of ItalyLanguages of LombardyLanguages of PiedmontLanguages of SwitzerlandHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing clarification from November 2022CS1 Italian-language sources (it)CS1 maint: location missing publisherPages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18CS1 German-language sources (de)Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from August 2023Articles containing Lombard-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2011All articles with failed verificationArticles with failed verification from September 2014Articles with unsourced statements from May 2021Articles with unsourced statements from November 2022Articles with Italian-language sources (it)Articles with GND identifiers
 This page was last edited on 17 August 2023, at 15:41 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width