Late Antique and Byzantine Studies Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Late Antique and Byzantine Studies18,059 FollowersRecent papers in Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleLuigi d'Ayala Valva, Introduzione alla Vita greca prima di Pacomio, in Pacomio, Servo di Dio e degli uomini, Magnano 2016Save to LibraryDownloadby Luigi d'Ayala Valva•  8  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Monastic Studies, Coptic Studies, History of MonasticismAquae Labodes, una statio termale sulla costa occidentale della Sicilia in LE TERME E IL MARE II - VIII SEC. D.C. Colloquio internazionale (Roma - Civitavecchia, 3 - 4 novembre 2016)Save to LibraryDownloadby Valentina Caminneci•  58  Archaeology, Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Epigraphy (Archaeology)MONOGRAPHIES | Brigitte MONDRAIN, éd. / Lire et écrire à ByzanceQuel rôle, quelle place la lecture et l’écriture ont-elles tenus dans la culture et la société byzantines? Quel rapport ont-elles entretenu? Telles sont les questions auxquelles huit spécialistes de domaines très divers s’efforcent... moreQuel rôle, quelle place la lecture et l’écriture ont-elles tenus dans la culture et la société byzantines? Quel rapport ont-elles entretenu? Telles sont les questions auxquelles huit spécialistes de domaines très divers s’efforcent d’apporter dans ce volume des réponses originales. Dans une première partie, c’est la figure centrale du copiste que l’on voit à l’œuvre. La seconde partie étudie les modalités de l’apprentissage et de la diffusion de la lecture et de l’écriture dans la société byzantine. La troisième partie, enfin, montre comment récits édifiants et romans byzantins sont susceptibles d’éclairer les usages de la lecture et de l’écriture à Byzance. Ce livre constitue ainsi une contribution de premier plan à la connaissance d’un élément central du dynamisme culturel byzantin.  ISBN : ISBN 2-9518198-1Save to LibraryDownloadby Association des Amis du Centre d’Histoire et Civilisation de Byzance ACHCByz•  4  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Studies, Byzantine History, Byzantine artContextualising the 14th-Century Church of Saint Nicholas Orphanos in ThessalonikiSave to LibraryDownloadby Maria Alessia Rossi•  10  Iconography, Art History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine StudiesCyprus between Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages (ca. 600–800). An Island in Transition.Research on early medieval Cyprus has focused on the late antique " golden age " (late fourth/early fifth to seventh century) and the so-called Byzantine " Reconquista " (post-AD 965) while overlooking the intervening period. This phase... moreResearch on early medieval Cyprus has focused on the late antique " golden age " (late fourth/early fifth to seventh century) and the so-called Byzantine " Reconquista " (post-AD 965) while overlooking the intervening period. This phase was characterized, supposedly, by the division of the political sovereignty between the Umayyads and the Byzantines, bringing about the social and demographic dislocation of the population of the island. This book proposes a different story of continuities and slow transformations in the fate of Cyprus between the late sixth and the early ninth centuries. Analysis of new archaeological evidence shows signs of a continuing link to Constantinople. Moreover, together with a reassessment of the literary evidence, archaeology and material culture help us to reappraise the impact of Arab naval raids and contextualize the confrontational episodes throughout the ebb and flow of Eastern Mediterranean history: the political influence of the Caliphate looked stronger in the second half of the seventh century, the administrative and ecclesiastical influence of the Byzantine empire held sway from the beginning of the eighth to the twelfth century. Whereas the island retained sound commercial ties with the Umayyad Levant in the seventh and eighth centuries, at the same time politically and economically it remained part of the Byzantine sphere. This belies the idea of Cyprus as an independent province only loosely tied to Constantinople and allows us to draw a different picture of the cultural identities, political practices and hierarchy of wealth and power in Cyprus during the passage from Late Antiquity to the early Middle Ages.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luca Zavagno•  12  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Medieval History, Cypriot Archaeology, Cyprus StudiesLa barriera presbiterale e il templon bizantinoSave to LibraryDownloadby vincenzo ruggieri•  16  Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Studies, Late AntiquityThe Great Entrance. A History of the Transfer of Gifts and other Preanaphoral Rites of the Liturgy of St. John ChrysostomTaft R. F. The Great Entrance. A History of the Transfer of Gifts and other Preanaphoral Rites of the Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom. [A History of the Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom, vol. II]. Roma, 1975. (Orientalia Christiana Analecta;... moreTaft R. F. The Great Entrance. A History of the Transfer of Gifts and other Preanaphoral Rites of the Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom. [A History of the Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom, vol. II]. Roma, 1975. (Orientalia Christiana Analecta; 200).Save to LibraryDownloadby Athos Institute•  100  Religion, Comparative Religion, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesEMOTIONS. STUDIA PATRISTICA FASCICLE 9Save to LibraryDownloadby Ioannis Papadogiannakis•  11  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Late Antiquity, Ancient Emotions, John ChrysostomTemple and Throne of the Divine Glory: "Pseudo-Macarius" and Purity of Heart, Together with Some Remarks on the Limitations and Usefulness of ScholarshipSave to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Golitzin•  26  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Patristics, Asceticism, Christian MysticismWestern Turks and Byzantine gold coins found in ChinaSave to LibraryDownloadby Ying Lin•  2  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine NumismaticsVII Seminario Nazionale IMAI - L'ambito cronologico delle "Inscriptiones Medii Aevi Italiae": confronti e riflessioni       
(7th IMAI Workshop - Chronological frames of the "Inscriptiones Medii Aevi Italiae": discussions and reflexions)Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonio, Enrico Felle•  7  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Medieval History, Greek Epigraphy, Latin EpigraphyGotland the pearl of the Baltic Sea, home of the Varangians pages 166-267To understand the history of Gotland, the home of the Varangians, one must fully realize that Gotland was an independent Merchant Farmers’ Republic, and the hub of the Baltic Sea region, which from time immemorial had its relations mainly... moreTo understand the history of Gotland, the home of the Varangians, one must fully realize that Gotland was an independent Merchant Farmers’ Republic, and the hub of the Baltic Sea region, which from time immemorial had its relations mainly east and south. The Gotlandic history is misleading and difficult to understand if it is bundled with the Swedish history, which so far has been done. They both have their separate history. There are some deadlocks in Swedish history which have blocked the view for a broader perspective. I here think of the Roman sources about the Baltic Sea region. In the 1600s when Sweden was a super- power they had to give it a story that matched its position in the world and when they in the Roman sources found peoples and places that started with an ‘S’ they immediately concluded that it must be ‘Svear’ and the ‘Scandinavian peninsula’. The Roman name for the Scandinavian peninsula was, however, still in the 500s THULE. This historical picture was created by Johannes Magnus, and continued by Olof Rudbeck in ‘Atlantica’. Still today many writers without thought are copying these old delusions that the Roman writers would have written about some mighty Svear at the beginning of our era. Let us look at the archaeological evidences and take such a simple example as the 7500 Roman coins from Tacitus time and there about, denarius, found in present day Sweden. 6500 of these are from Gotland. Only 80 are from the Lake Mälar area. Or take the quantity of bronze bowls from the Capuan factory outside Naples found on Gotland. How can Swedish scholars with this quantity of finds on Gotland from the Roman Imperial time pretend that Gotland did not exist? Tacitus wrote about Suionum Civitate. He accordingly tells about the people who lived in Mare Suebicum (the Baltic Sea), i.e. the Gotlanders, who already then had reached a high cultural level and had trade relations all over Europe, including the Roman Empire. He continues: “Upon the Suiones, border the people Sitones; and agreeing with them in all other things, differ from them in one, that here the sovereignty is exercised by a woman. So notoriously do they degenerate not only from a state of liberty, but even below a state of bondage. Here end the territories of the Suevians.” The Sithones lived in the Lake Mälar area and are what we later call Svear. From the archaeological findings we can accordingly establish that trade relations between Gotland and the Roman Empire were intense. No Svea kingdom as such existed yet at that time. Tacitus says that the people in the Lake Mälar area were ruled by a woman. Still in the Beowulf epos, probably written down in the 700s, the people in the Lake Mälar area are not known as Svear but as Skilfings. It is quite clear that historical observations can not only be based on name similarities, but one must first look at the map, the archaeological finds and the chronological development and only secondarily try to match the names that different peoples have had in different areas at different times, and when these names first appear in written sources. The early history is a piece of myth, oral tradition and fragmentary records. From all this can suddenly emerge a pattern, the outline of a process that may not be scientifically inviolable, which it never really can be. Yet it is nearer the truth than you could ever reach with ‘scientific accuracy’. If you take the Guta Saga, written down about 1220, and the Beowulf Epos, written down in the 700s, as serious as Snorri Sturluson’s ‘Nordiska kungasagor’, written down about 1220, has been honored - i.e. as evidence in lack of better sources, there will open up a new, breathtaking perspective regarding Gotlandic, Swedish and Scandinavian history during the Roman time of the emperors and the Migration Period. Yes also that of Europe. Already in the Bronze Age and early Iron Age there are signs of Gotlandic trading Emporiums on the east coast of the Baltic Sea and all the way to the river Volga. Trade, especially amber trade, experiences in the Bronze Age a large bloom. The Gotlanders seem to have controlled the amber trade with trading Emporiums in the Vistula area. The extensive trade relations convey influences from outside. From southern cultural centers, Egypt, Crete, Mycenae, spiritual impulses stretched their effects also to the Baltic Sea region and Gotland. The immigration of the Herul Royal family (Svear) to the Lake Mälar area in the early 500s, when they bring a new ruling dynasty and a new religion to the area (what we today know as the Ynglinga dynasty and the Æsir religion), is mentioned in several sources. Their entrance on the stage changes the situation in the Baltic Sea region. The wars between the Skilfings (Svear) and the Gotlanders are mentioned in the Beowulf epos. The Guta Saga tells that the Gotlanders always kept the victory and their right: “Many kings fought against Gutland while it was heathen; the Gotlanders, however, always held the victory and constantly protected their rights. Later the Gotlanders sent a large number of messengers to ‘suiarikis’ (Svear), but none of them could make peace before Avair Strabain of Alva parish. He made the first peace with the ‘suja kunung’ (king of the Svear).” The Trade Treaty between the Gotlanders and the Svear, probably from second half of the 500s, means that the Gotlanders could freely trade on the new kingdom in the Lake Mälar area and its conquered lands east of the Baltic Sea. There were large Gotlandic trading Emporiums, i. a. in Grobina (Latvia) ca 650-850 CE, an area at that time conquered by the Svear. Helgö and Birka would be trading places with large Gotlandic influence. E.g., writes Adam of Bremen in his story, Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum, that “Birka is a Gotlandic (Gothia) town located in the middle of the country of the Sveoner.” A new way of burial appears in the Lake Mälar area in the 500s, as well as the introduction of the Roman calendar. If we accept that the Heruli settle in the Lake Mälar area at this time, as mentioned by Procopius, it explains a lot. Actually this in fact explains the rise of the Vendel era, which in the Lake Mälar area starts first half of the 500s and continues until the beginning of the Middle Ages. On Gotland it starts about 50 years earlier and is explained by the Gotlanders’ close contacts with Theoderic’s Gothic kingdom. The first writer to mention some people on the Scandinavian peninsula (THULE), except Tacitus Sitonens in the Lake Mälar area, is Prokopios who wrote in the 500s. With the discovery that the Beowulf epos is about the Gotlanders in combination with the Heruls immigration to the Lake Mälar area we have been able to shed new light on the Gotlandic history. Indeed the history of the whole Baltic Sea region has come in a whole new light. We now have a link between the Beowulf epos, Guta Saga and the archaeological finds from the 400s and 500s. Roman gold coins known as solidi have been found on the three Baltic Sea islands: Bornholm, 150, Öland 298, Gotland 270 + 47 on the market place Helgö in Mälaren. The latter have been intended as raw material and are according to the researchers most likely derived from Gotland. It is obvious here to see Helgö and then Birka as Gotlandic trading venues, as implied by the archaeological sources. Gotland’s importance for trade and culture in the Baltic Sea region during the first millennium can also be illustrated by the coin finds. From the 500s until the 1000s the Gotlanders have, according to Swedish researchers, been considered to rarely be mentioned in ancient sources. They are, however, well known in Arabic and Byzantine sources as al-Rus’ and Varangian merchants. The word Varangian was used by Arabs, Greeks and Kievan Rus’ for the merchants from the island in the Baltic Sea region (the Gotlanders). It probably came from the old Norse word ‘vár’, which means ‘union through promise’, and was used by a group of men to keep them together in an association, and under oath observe certain obligations to support each other in good faith and to share the resulting profits. It was a common word, when trading adventures were undertaken by Gotlandic tradesmen on the Russian rivers. They closed a business contract with each other and pledged to defend each other. Another meaning of the word was for the Gotlanders who acted as mercenary soldiers to the rulers of Khazaria, Miklagarðr (Constantinople) and Garðaríki (Kievan Rus’). The Gotlandic Varangian Guard was an elite unit of the Byzantine army formed under emperor Basil II in 988. .Save to LibraryDownloadby Tore Gannholm and +1Tore Gannholm•  15  Russian Literature, Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesThe Eloquence of Appropriation. Prolegomena to Understanding of Spolia in Early Christian RomePreface; I. Introduction: I.1 Prelude "To Imitate the Bees"; I.2 Towards an Interpretation of Spolia: Delimitations and Methods; I.3 Reuse The Development of a New Architectural Practice; II. Translatio of Materials: II.1 Fragments and... morePreface; I. Introduction: I.1 Prelude "To Imitate the Bees"; I.2 Towards an Interpretation of Spolia: Delimitations and Methods; I.3 Reuse The Development of a New Architectural Practice; II. Translatio of Materials: II.1 Fragments and Fragmentation. The Disposition of Spolia in Church Buildings; II.2 Translations and Transferences: Christian Versions of Roman Architecture; II.3 The Aesthetics of Appropriation Eclecticism, Variety, and Antithetical Harmonies; III. Translatio of Meanings: III.1 Breaking Down the Past Rejections of Rationality; III.2 "Seeing the invisible" Towards a New Metaphorical Architecture; III.3 To "Strip Error Bare" The Rhetoric of Transformation; IV. Translatio of Time: IV.1 "Novelty in the Old and Age in the New". The Rhetoric of Renovation; IV.2 Recollecting the Past Spolia and Historical Consciousness; IV.3 Inventing the Past: Spolia and the Ideology of Classicism; Bibliography; List of Illustrations; Photo Credits; Index.Save to LibraryDownloadby L'ERMA di BRETSCHNEIDER, Publisher•  27  Classical Archaeology, Classics, Art History, Late Antique and Byzantine History« La science est commune » : sources syriaques et culture grecque en Syrie-Mésopotamie et en Perse par-delà les siècles obscurs byzantinsAlong the lines of a reappraisal of the so-called Byzantine “Dark Ages,” this contribution addresses the question of the re-emergence of classical culture in Byzantium in the 9th century and how Syriac sources can throw some light on the... moreAlong the lines of a reappraisal of the so-called Byzantine “Dark Ages,” this contribution addressesthe question of the re-emergence of classical culture in Byzantium in the 9th century and how Syriacsources can throw some light on the continuation and yet transformation of late antique teachingand scholasticism. The continuous work by Syriac scholars on Greek scientific and philosophicaltexts in the 7th–10th centuries shows the availability of Greek manuscripts in the East, even beyondthe Roman-Sasanian border. Syriac literature can help understand the transformation of Hellenismand the constitution of a cultural koine in other languages than Greek. A Christian as well as morespecifically Syrian Hellenism blended the cultural idioms of Greek and “oriental” culture. Not onlydid Greek culture survive, but it spread in the Arabic polity and ultimately re-emerged in Byzantiumfrom the shelves of the Byzantine libraries. Oblivion of classical “pagan” literature was parallel to thetransmission of a new canonised knowledge in Syriac and then Arabic but was ultimately reversed:not so much thanks to the “return” of Greek manuscripts and texts from the East however as from acompetition over the appropriation of ancient Greek culture beyond Christianity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Muriel Debié•  12  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Islamic Studies, Syriac Studies, Early IslamAnthusa di Mantineon and il canone XX del concilio di Nicea IISave to LibraryDownloadby vincenzo ruggieri•  15  Canon Law, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Women's StudiesTravelling Painters’ Workshops in the Late Antique Levant: Preliminary ObservationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Julia M Burdajewicz•  8  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Levantine Archaeology, Late Antique Archaeology, Late Antique Art and ArchaeologyMaking Sense of the Spolia in the Little Metropolis in AthensSave to LibraryDownloadby Bente Kiilerich•  26  Cultural History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Cultural Heritage, Medieval ArchaeologyThe Caucasian Archaeology of the Holy Land: Armenian, Georgian and Albanian communities between the forth and eleventh centuries CE. Brill, 2018.The Caucasian Archaeology of the Holy Land investigates the complete corpus of available literary, epigraphic and archaeological evidence of the Armenian, Georgian and Caucasian Albanian Christian communities’ activity in the Holy Land... moreThe Caucasian Archaeology of the Holy Land investigates the complete corpus of available literary, epigraphic and archaeological evidence of the Armenian, Georgian and Caucasian Albanian Christian communities’ activity in the Holy Land during the Byzantine and the Early Islamic periods. For the first time, the book presents an integrated approach to literary sources and numerous archaeological evidences, previouslyunpublished or revised. The study explores the place of each of these Caucasian communities in ancient Palestine through synthesis of literary and material evidence and seeks to understand the interrelations between them and the influence they had on the national churches of the Caucasus.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yana Tchekhanovets•  8  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Armenian Studies, Early Christianity, Byzantine ArchaeologyLETOON ARAŞTIRMALARI ÇALIŞTAYI II BAŞKENT ÜNİVERSİTESİ GÜZEL SANATLAR TASARIM VE MİMARLIK FAKÜLTESİ 10 Mayıs 2019 Avni Akyol Konferans SalonuYeni verilerle Letoon Manastırı Üzerine GörüşlerSave to LibraryDownloadby Sinan Mimaroğlu and +1Ahmet Tolga Tek•  5  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Late Antique Archaeology, Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Archaeology"Judaea, the Palestinian Coast, the Galilee, Idumaea, and Samaria," in: T. Kaizer (ed.), A Companion to the Hellenistic and Roman Near East (Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, 2022), 259-71.A historical survey of the regions of Judaea and surrounding territories in the Graeco-Roman period.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yaron Eliav•  20  Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Hellenistic HistoryThe Hole The DomeSave to LibraryDownloadby David Vanderper•  18  History, Ancient History, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesMünzevi Yaşam Fikrinin Bizans Tasvirlerindeki Yansımaları: Sütun Üzerinde Yaşayan Azizler, Gece Kitaplığı, Ankara, 2018, s. 1-37.Save to LibraryDownloadby İlkgül Kaya•  20  Iconography, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Symeon the Stylite, Byzantine StudiesThe fate of statues: a contextualised study of sculpture in Late Antique Cyprus (Unpublished PhD thesis in two volumes; Durham University 2016)Research undertaken in Durham University, Faculty of Social Sciences and Health: Department of Archaeology; supervised by Dr Anna Leone. Viva voce examination held on April 15th, 2016. Examiners: Prof. Roland R. R. Smith (University of... moreResearch undertaken in Durham University, Faculty of Social Sciences and Health: Department of Archaeology; supervised by Dr Anna Leone.Viva voce examination held on April 15th, 2016.Examiners: Prof. Roland R. R. Smith (University of Oxford), Dr Catherine M. Draycott (Durham University).Outcome: passed forthwith (no corrections; thesis passed unconditionally).Save to LibraryDownloadby Panayiotis Panayides•  23  Ancient History, Classical Archaeology, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies"Perceptions of Sound and Sonic Environments Across the Byzantine Acoustic Horizon"Save to LibraryDownloadby Amy Papalexandrou•  3  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Soundscape Studies, SoundRed Sea trade and the StateThis paper examines evidence, both documentary and archaeological, for state interest in Indo-Mediterranean trade via the Red Sea, focusing on the creation of infrastructure to facilitate trade, measures taken to protect trade and... moreThis paper examines evidence, both documentary and archaeological, for state interest in Indo-Mediterranean trade via the Red Sea, focusing on the creation of infrastructure to facilitate trade, measures taken to protect trade and traders, and the extent of the state’s interest in the trade principally as a result of customs dues, which it is argued formed a significant and hitherto under-appreciated source of income for the Roman state.The development of Indo-Mediterranean trade in large volumes via the Red Sea route in the Augustan period was the result of a combination of at least three main factors: (1) the creation of overland routes between the Nile and Red Sea, obviating the need for ships to beat up to the Gulf of Suez against strong northerly winds; (2) the discovery of the use of the monsoon winds, enabling a more direct passage to and from India; and (3) the incorporation of Egypt into the Roman Empire after Actium. The flourishing of this trade for several centuries under the Roman Empire relied on effective protection of these routes.The first piece of this jigsaw was put in place under Ptolemy II Philadelphus, with the creation of regular overland routes across the Eastern Desert between the Nile and the Red Sea. Crucial to these routes were the watering points or hydreumata created along them, which cannot have functioned without the use of the new saqiyya technology enabling the lifting of water from deep wells in quantities sufficient to feed desert caravans. The invention of the saqiyya machine has been placed by Lewis (1997) in the window 280-220 BC, and may probably be narrowed further to the earlier part of this period. Right-angled gearing was sufficiently well developed by c. 240 BC for Archimedes to use it in his hodometer cart - and probably also was used in automata vehicles in the Grand Procession of Ptolemy Philadelphus in 270 BC. In other words, the components of the technology were there during the reign of Ptolemy Philadelphus and it is difficult to believe that it was not used on this desert route. Possibly an important motivation for the opening of the overland route between the Nile and the Red Sea was to enable the supply of war elephants from the Sudan, but the routes clearly facilitated commercial traffic with the Red Sea and the souther Arabian peninsula.With the development of trade with India via the Red Sea, following the discovery of the monsoon winds and the incorporation of Egypt into the large market of the Empire, the Roman system would have intensified the infrastructure on the Ptolemaic route to support increased traffic, with construction of new hydreumata attested by inscriptions. Pliny mentions some road stations; others were added in 76/77by the prefect of Egypt Julius Ursus (O.Ber.II.120). The kykleutikon salary of several 1st- and 2nd-c AD ostraca was for operating this kind of saqqiya device. Forts were also constructed, and caravans were provided with armed escorts for protection against the desert nomads. Although the state’s interest was also motivated by the need to transport of granite and marble from the desert quarries, and of gold from the mines there, there was clearly a strong interest in sustaining these roads as trade routes.This idea is supported by an examination of Trajanic policy in the region, which included the construction of the Via Nova from Aila to Bosra linking the northern Red Sea with southern Syria; the dredging and rehabilitation of the Clysma canal, and the stationing of a fleet in the Red Sea. Under Hadrian a road linking the ports of the western Red Sea coast facilitated regional communications and supplies between these increasingly important ports. In the mid second century a detatchment of troops (and ships) was stationed on the Farasan islands in the southern Red Sea, well to the south of any Roman land frontier. Their purpose must have been principally to protect trade shipping entering or leaving the Red Sea from piracy off the coast of the Arabian peninsula.Why did the Roman state go to such lengths to invest in the physical infrastructure for the Red Sea routes, and protection services along them? The answer seems to lie principally in the customs revenue that the state derived from Indo-Mediterranean trade. Customs tariffs across the empire’s frontiers were, at least on the eastern frontiers where we have direct evidence, set at 25% until some time in the early third century, and this may have been the case universally. Strabo, writing about why Augustus did not bother to invade Britain, stresses the high revenue derived from customs dues on cross-Channel trade, which exceed the likely revenue from tribute exacted under direct rule, once the costs of enforcing that rule are deducted (Strabo, Geography, 2.5.8 and 4.5.3). The second-century Muziris papyrus values the (part-)cargo of the ship Hermapollon, in from Muziris, at nearly HS 7 million after deduction of tax, implying that the state received some HS 2.2 million from this one cargo alone. If there were only 100 such cargoes per year (a century earlier, Strabo speaks of 120 ships per year leaving Myos Hormos for India), the customs revenues from the imports alone would amount to one-third of Duncan-Jones’ estimate for the military budget of the Empire. To this must be added the export customs dues, and also the customs dues on onwards transport of much of these goods to other provinces (usually at 2.5%). It looks as if the total state revenue for the empire may have been significantly underestimated by not taking due account of the revenues from trade, especially Indo-Mediterranean trade. This in turn makes it much easier to understand the state’s ability to fund large-scale civic building projects to a level not matched again until the rise of nation states in 19th-century Europe (see debate between Scheidel and Wilson in JRA 2009).But there were other reasons too for the state’s interest in supporting and sustaining this trade. In his rescript to the Senate in AD 22, Tiberius refused the Senate’s request to reiterate the sumptuary laws, citing as one of several reasons the fact that the real concern to the state was not controlling table luxuries, but supplying Rome with grain; much comes from Egypt, which is also the source of many luxury goods which provide profit for the grain traders (Tacitus, Annals 3.52-55). In other words, facilitating the eastern luxury trade was in indirect way of ensuring the grain supply to Rome by incentivising the participation of private shippers. The anecdote about Augustus and the Alexandrian shippers at Puteoli (Suetonius) may be seen in a similar light.Moreover, Alan Bowman has recently argued that the imperial house was directly involved in the trade between Egypt and India (Bowman 2010). Eivind Seeland’s forthcoming analysis of donations to Churches in Rome of eastern spices and incense from estates in Egypt traces some of these back to imperial domains (Seeland forthcoming).But some time between AD 174 and 227, the quarter-tax on external trade was reduced to a one-eighth tax (12.5%), the octava. If the eastern trade was so important to the Roman state, why halve the customs dues, especially at a time of intense fiscal pressure? The most reasonable explanation seems to be that the reduction was an acknowledgement by the state of its inability to maintain previous levels of protection for shipping and caravans, and this was a measure intended to compensate traders for increased transaction costs along these routes as a result. We hear of Blemmye raids on the Eastern Desert in the fourth and fifth centuries, and the shift in late antiquity towards more northerly ports in the Red Sea may also be connected with the increasing instability of the desert routesSave to LibraryDownloadby Andrew Wilson•  18  History, Ancient History, Economic History, ArchaeologyA fresh look at Hunnic cauldrons in the light of a new find from Hungary. Acta Archaeologica Academiae Scientiarum Hungaricae 68 (2017) 75–136.The discovery of a fragment of a Hunnic cauldron by a metal detectorist acted as the springboard of this study, in which various aspects of Hunnic cauldrons are discussed: their findspots and find contexts, their typology, their dating... moreThe discovery of a fragment of a Hunnic cauldron by a metal detectorist acted as the springboard of this study, in which various aspects of Hunnic cauldrons are discussed: their findspots and find contexts, their typology, their dating and their origins. Questions regarding the broader cultural context of Hunnic cauldrons in the Roman and the Hunnic Empires are also addressed, as are their functional, ritual and social dimensions. The archaeological findings are complemented by metallographic analyses that shed light not only on the composition of the cauldron, but also on its possible use. Preprint version, published in Acta Archaeologica Academiae Scientiarum Hungaricae 68 (2017) 75–136.https://doi.org/10.1556/072.2017.68.1.4http://dx.doi.org/10.1556/072.2017.68.1.4Save to LibraryDownloadby Zsófia Masek•  6  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Archaeology of Roman Pannonia, Great Migration period, SarmatiansThe King in Words: Performance and Fiction in Synesius' De RegnoThis article examines the performance context of Synesius of Cyrene’s (ca. 370–415 CE) On Kingship. Synesius draws heavily on the classical tradition, and also incorporates many elements of Themistius’ philosophical style into his speech.... moreThis article examines the performance context of Synesius of Cyrene’s(ca. 370–415 CE) On Kingship. Synesius draws heavily on the classical tradition, and also incorporates many elements of Themistius’ philosophical style into his speech. But the work was not delivered before the emperor, as it purports, and hints at the fictionality of its own dramatic situation. These hints are not mere play but fit very closely the rhetorical needs of the circumstances. The performance appears to have been a success.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Petkas•  25  Greek Literature, Second Sophistic, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesHadrianopolis IV: Early Byzantine Mosaics and Frescoes from Northwestern Central TurkeyHadrianopolis is a site located on the principal western route from the Central Anatolian plain through the mountains to Bartın and the Black Sea, 3 km west of the modern town of Eskipazar, near Karabük, in what was in Roman times... moreHadrianopolis is a site located on the principal western route from the Central Anatolian plain through the mountains to Bartın and the Black Sea, 3 km west of the modern town of Eskipazar, near Karabük, in what was in Roman times southwestern Paphlagonia (modern northwestern central Turkey). This site was a small but important city, controlling this major route and dominating a rich agricultural and especially vinicultural enclave on the borders between Paphlagonia, Bithynia and Galatia. Between 2005 and 2008, four survey, excavation and restoration campaigns were conducted at this Roman and early Byzantine site by Dokuz Eylül University in Izmir. As a result of the 2005 surveys of the area, it was confi rmed that Hadrianopolis was indeed coincident with Viranşehir, which is located c. 3 km west of modern Eskipazar and was active between the 1st cent. BC. and the 8th cent. AD. The fi eld surveys in 2005 identifi ed the remains of at least 24 buildings at the site. Among them are two bath buildings, two basilicas, a domus, an apsidal building, a fortifi ed structure of the Byzantine period, a possible theatre, a vaulted building, a domed building and some domestic buildings, most of which were paved with extensive mosaic floors. Following the publication of the inscriptions (Hadrianopolis I), glass (Hadrianopolis II), and pottery fi nds (Hadrianopolis III), the present volume IV of this multi-volume report is devoted to the early Byzantine mosaics and frescoes from this site, which have been dated mainly to the 6th and 7th cent. AD. The main find spots for mosaics and frescoes are Baths A, Baths B, Basilica A, Basilica B, the Apsidal Building and the Domus. One of the most remarkable discoveries was undoubtedly the floor mosaic of the nave of Basilica B, which displays personifi cations of the Four Rivers of Paradise: Euphrates, Tigris, Phison and Geon.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sami Patacı•  18  Classical Archaeology, Iconography, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Anatolian StudiesReimpiego e spolia nella tarda Antichità alla luce del materiale litico proveniente dal complesso archeologico di San Severo a ClasseThe article aims to present results of the analysis of stone artefacts (fragments of architectural decoration, sarcophagi, opus sectile) from the late antique basilica and adjacent medieval monastery of San Severo in Classe (Ravenna,... moreThe article aims to present results of the analysis of stone artefacts (fragments of architectural decoration, sarcophagi, opus sectile) from the late antique basilica and adjacent medieval monastery of San Severo in Classe (Ravenna, Italy). The research is focused on the qualitative and quantitative study of stone artefacts with regards on signs of their reuse. A hypothesis of the application of late antique materials in medieval reconstructions of San Severo monastic complex is discussed on the basis of lithotype and provenance study of stone artefacts and the late antique marble trade in the Mediterranean. INTRODUZIONE IL SIGNIFICATO DI RAVENNA E DEL PORTO DI CLASSE NEL V-X SECOLO Ravenna (Fig. 1) ha vissuto il periodo della sua massima prosperità economica e sviluppo cultu-rale durante il V e VI secolo d.C. come sedes imperialis della Pars Occidentalis, a partire dal trasferi-mento della corte imperiale nel 402 da Milano a Ravenna, causato soprattutto da motivi strategici (buona viabilità, l'accesso immediato al mare) e politici (contatti facilitati con Costantinopoli nonché il suo status di "disembedded capital" come la definisce Deliyannis: Deliyannis 2010, 3, 41, 309). Lo spostamento della sede imperiale determinò alcuni cambiamenti non solo nella città di Ravenna, ma anche nelle zone limitrofe, nell'entroterra: l'intensificazione dell'attività edilizia, produttiva e commerciale, e dell'economia interregionale. Questi cambiamenti hanno avuto un impatto nell'infrastruttura dell'intera regione, grazie alla ripresa di contatti più stretti con Roma e con le regioni centro-italiche e infine anche con Costantinopoli (cfr. Antonelli et al. 2016, 354). La prosperità e l'influsso culturale di Ravenna sul resto della penisola continuò anche durante il regno ostrogoto, soprattutto con Teoderico (493-526). 1 Nonostante le circostanze infauste della querra gotica (535-554), l'attività edilizia a Ravenna continua anche dopo la conquista da parte dei Bizantini nel 540 (Ravegnani 2004, 11-68) quando sono state completate e consacrate le basiliche, la cui costruzione era stata avviata durante il regno di Teoderico. 1 Nel V e nella prima metà del VI secolo Ravenna e Classe hanno vissuto uno straordinario boom edilizio, con la costruzione di un'infrastruttura viaria urbana, nuove mura e imponenti basiliche cristiane monumentali, ornate da mosaici preziosi e da una ricca decorazione architettonica in marmo (Augenti-Cirelli 2010, 605).Save to LibraryDownloadby Enrico Cirelli and +1Helena Tůmová•  10  History, Archaeology, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Medieval Studies“The Corpus of Floor Mosaics of Constantinople,” in Byzanz - das Römerreich im Mittelalter, Monographien des Römisch-Germanisches Zentralmuseum (Mainz, 2010), vol. 84, 3: 127-134Save to LibraryDownloadby Orgu Dalgic•  13  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Late Antique Archaeology, Late Antiquity, Byzantine ArchaeologyGeç Antik Çağ'da MısırSave to LibraryDownloadby Merve Gölcü•  5  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Late Antique Archaeology, Late Antiquity, EgyptEphesos from Late Antiquity until the Middle Ages. An Archaeological Introduction, in: S. Ladstätter - P. Magdalino (eds.), Ephesos from Late Antiquity until the Late Middle Ages, SoSchrÖAI 58 (Wien 2019) 11-72.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sabine Ladstaetter•  11  Archaeology, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Early Christianity, Byzantine StudiesExpressions of Power – Luxury textiles from early medieval northern Europe. In: Svenson, A. (ed.) Textiles as Cultural Expressions. Acts of the Textile Society of America, 11th Biennial Symposion 2008  (s.l. 2009) no. 20.The role of luxury textiles - finely-made local cloths, Byzantine silks and textiles dyed using non-local dye stuffs - in north-western European royal and ecclesiastical contexts is investigated. Case studies including Sutton Hoo, St.... moreThe role of luxury textiles - finely-made local cloths, Byzantine silks and textiles dyed using non-local dye stuffs - in north-western European royal and ecclesiastical contexts is investigated. Case studies including Sutton Hoo, St. Denis, Oberflacht and Durham represent clothes, furnishing fabrics and relic wrappings.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sonja Marzinzik•  4  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Early Christianity, Early Medieval Archaeology, Early Medieval HistorySagalassos, archaeology ofAn update of results after 30 years of survey and excavations at SagalassosSave to LibraryDownloadby Marc Waelkens•  10  Ancient History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Landscape Archaeology, Agrarian StudiesHeavy Money, Weightier Problems: The Justinianic Reform of 538 and Its Economic ConsequencesIn 538, at the peak of his imperial achievement, Justinian introduced an impressive coinage of unusual size and weight. Based on the evidence of hoards and single finds from the Balkans, Asia Minor and the Near East, the economic... moreIn 538, at the peak of his imperial achievement, Justinian introduced an impressivecoinage of unusual size and weight. Based on the evidence of hoards and single finds from the Balkans, Asia Minor and the Near East, the economic implications of Justinian’s heavy series (538-542) appear in a new light. Its prolonged circulation and important percentage among finds from the Balkans, in particular, changes our understanding of the role played by this coinage during the sixth century and adds new dimensions to the fiduciary nature of the early Byzantine bronze coinage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrei  Gandila•  10  Economic History, Monetary Economics, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine StudiesReconciling the ‘step sisters’: Early Byzantine numismatics, history and archaeologyDespite the growing body of excavation finds and the steady publication of museum collections, the numismatic evidence remains an underutilized historical source. Historians who study Late Antiquity rely on archaeological evidence but... moreDespite the growing body of excavation finds and the steady publication of museum collections, the numismatic evidence remains an underutilized historical source. Historians who study Late Antiquity rely on archaeological evidence but tend to ignore coin finds, partly because numismatics developed as an independent field with its own set of specialized tools and research questions. Insufficient dialogue between the disciplines has delayed a proper appreciation of Early Byzantine coins as historical source and the development of a clear methodology for their use in conjunction with the literary and archaeological evidence. In order to overcome such disciplinary divides, this paper proposes several research directions by highlighting the main benefits of integrating the numismatic evidence more fully into the historical narrative. These research directions include a greater emphasis on bronze coinage, the study of the long-distance circulation of people and goods, and distinctions between urban, rural, and fortified contexts. This methodological discussion is followed by a case study from Byzantium's Lower Danube frontier.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrei  Gandila•  10  Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Late Antique Archaeology, Late AntiquityMONOGRAPHIES | Sergey A. Ivanov / “Pearls before swine” Missionary Work in ByzantiumNot a single contemporary Byzantine source mentions the Christianization of Ethiopia in the fifth century, the Byzantine attempts to convert Persia at the end of the sixth, the creation of the Slavic alphabet in the ninth, or the baptism... moreNot a single contemporary Byzantine source mentions the Christianization of Ethiopia in the fifth century, the Byzantine attempts to convert Persia at the end of the sixth, the creation of the Slavic alphabet in the ninth, or the baptism of Rus’ in the tenth. These great achievements of Eastern Christianity left the Byzantines themselves perfectly indifferent. Byzantium produced a number of ardent and committed missionaries, but much more visible were the Greek intellectuals who believed that it was easier “to whitewash an Ethiopian” than to Christianize a barbarian. When Leo V acquainted the pagan Bulgars with the Christian sacraments, Theophanes Continuatus castigated him for “casting the pearls of faith before the swine.” In the end, the missionary zeal of a few enthusiasts lost out to the haughty isolationism of Empire. “Pearls before Swine” focuses on the complex relationship between the Christian pledge to “teach all nations” and Greek cultural snobbery.  ISBN : 9782916716534Save to LibraryDownloadby Association des Amis du Centre d’Histoire et Civilisation de Byzance ACHCByz and +1Sergey Ivanov•  5  Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Studies, Byzantine HistoryANTİK DÖNEM SONRASI ALABANDA / ALABANDA AFTER THE ANCIENT PERIODAlabanda Ancient City takes place in Araphisar Street from Doğanyurt Village in the 7 km west of Çine Town, Aydın City. The city settled down on the foothill of the hills in the north of Gökbel Mountain, is positioned close by the Marsyas... moreAlabanda Ancient City takes place in Araphisar Street from Doğanyurt Village in the 7 km west of Çine Town, Aydın City. The city settled down on the foothill of the hills in the north of Gökbel Mountain, is positioned close by the Marsyas River. The ancient city having wetland wide lowlands suitable for agriculture shows a non-stop settlement by beginning from the 2nd Millenium B. C. until today. While there are archeological materials and evidences about the Ancient Period of Alabanda and they are known and evaluated by the scientific world, the information about the late Ancient Period and that of the period after it are almost non-existing. As throughout the Ancient World, Alabanda has also kept its presence by changing after the 4th Century A. D. In the excavation, research and conservation works we have carried out since 2011, unsuspected concrete archeological data were achieved about Alabanda after Ancient Period. It was documented that the city were smaller by almost half and were surrounded by new city walls, and it was determined that public buildings such as theater, bath and temple, were used for different functions by changing architecturally. As we can see the sample of it in a lot of ancient religious settlement, Alabanda Apollon Isotimos Temple were changed into a church and the cella of the temple was used as baptistery. Column capitals, relief-adorned parapets, mosaics, the city walls built with Spolia blocks inform us about Alabanda in the Early Christian Period and in the Medieval Period. Byzantine and Islamic glazed potteries presenting a very rich repertoire and various coins belonging to Byzantine Period and Anatolian Principalities give us clues about the socio-economic situation of Medieval Alabanda. In this notice, archeological materials and evidences, which were achieved after a 3-year work and which are providing valuable information about the Medieval Alabanda, will be briefly introduced and those unsuspected data will be presented to the attention and knowledge of scientific world.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sedat Akkurnaz•  19  Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Anatolian Archaeology, Late Antique ArchaeologyA. Ricci, Contesti Funerari Bizantini e loro Archeologia a Küçükyalı (Istanbul): Considerazioni Preliminari/ Küçükuyalı’da Bizans mezar kontekstleri ve arkeolojisi: ilk değerlendirmeler, In:  Arkeoloji ve Sanat, 148 (2015), 177-190Save to LibraryDownloadby Alessandra Ricci•  13  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Funerary Archaeology, Byzantine Studies, Funeral PracticesChanges in the Settlements and Economy  of the Southern Troad (Turkey)  from the 4th to 15th CenturyThe surveys conducted show a pattern of dense settlement in the Troad, which far exceeds the number of settlements today. In Late Antiquity and early Byzantine times, many of the settlements were located along the coast. Of these, the... moreThe surveys conducted show a pattern of dense settlement in the Troad, which far exceeds the number of settlements today. In Late Antiquity and early Byzantine times, many of the settlements were located along the coast. Of these, the villages were abandoned from the 7th century onwards and the inhabitants preferred peripheral locations in the fertile river valleys of the interior. In Late Antiquity and the early Byzantine era, the livelihood of the inhabitants consisted of fishing, agriculture, quarrying and trade. In the late Byzantine period, in addition to livestock farming and agriculture, there was also the mining of ore.Save to LibraryDownloadby Beate Böhlendorf-Arslan•  9  Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Anatolian Archaeology, Late Antique ArchaeologyA Narrow-Sleeved Woollen Tunic From Byzantine EgyptSave to LibraryDownloadby SOFIA TSOURINAKI•  2  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Textiles22. Uluslararası Ortaçağ ve Türk Dönemi Kazıları ve Sanat Tarihi Araştırmaları Sempozyum ProgramıSave to LibraryDownloadby Esma  Igus and +2J. Özlem OKTAY ÇEREZCİAdil  Yılmaz•  5  Art History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Architecture, History of architectureArkeolojik Veriler Işığında Türk Fetihlerine Kadar Ardahan Tarihçesi ve Ardahan Adının KökeniBu çalışma, "Ardahan Kale ve Kuleleri" adlı kitabın bölümlerinden biridir. Bu kitap içi bölümde, Ardahan'ın Eskiçağ'dan Türk fetihlerine kadar tarihçesi üzerinde durulmuş ve şehrin isminin kökenine ilişkin bir başlığa yer verilmiştir.... moreBu çalışma, "Ardahan Kale ve Kuleleri" adlı kitabın bölümlerinden biridir. Bu kitap içi bölümde, Ardahan'ın Eskiçağ'dan Türk fetihlerine kadar tarihçesi üzerinde durulmuş ve şehrin isminin kökenine ilişkin bir başlığa yer verilmiştir.  Son yıllarda yapılan bilimsel araştırmalarla birlikte Eskiçağ ve Ortaçağ arkeolojik vaziyetinin Transkafkasya (Güney Kafkasya) arkeolojisiyleoldukça örtüştüğü anlaşılan Ardahan, Doğu Karadeniz ve Kuzeydoğu Anadolu Bölgeleri ile Transkafkasya’yı birleştiren stratejik bir coğrafi konuma sahiptir. Batıda Karadeniz sahil şeridinin son ili Artvin ilekomşu olan Ardahan’ın güneyinde Erzurum ve Kars illeri, kuzeydoğusunda Gürcistan ve doğusunda Ermenistan yer alır. Transkafkasya ülkelerinde, özellikle Tunç ve Demir Çağları kültürlerine ilişkin hatırı sayılır araştırma ve arkeolojik kazı yapılmışsa da bu bölgenin komşusu olan Kuzeydoğu Anadolu için aynı değerlendirmeyi ne yazık ki yapamamaktayız. Özellikle Ardahan ili, Anadolu coğrafyasında arkeolojik araştırmaların en az yürütüldüğü yerlerden biri olmuştur. Bu nedenle şehrin tarihi ve arkeolojik geçmişi üzerine toplanan veriler, akademik anlamda tatmin edici bir düzeye erişememiştir. Yine de inanıyoruz ki, 2008 yılında kurulan Ardahan Üniversitesinin bünyesinde gerçekleştirilmekte olan ve yakın gelecekte daha da kapsamlı bir şekilde sürdürülecek bilimsel çalışmalar, şehrin tarihi, sanat tarihi ve arkeolojikdokusunu çok daha detaylı bir şekilde yansıtacaktır.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sami Patacı•  54  Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Historical ArchaeologyTheologies under Persecution: Gregory of Nazianzus and the Syntagmation of AetiusThe five “Theological Orations” of Gregory of Nazianzus represent at once Gregory's public response to his theological opponents as well as the most sustained and systematic presentation of his own Trinitarianism. They begin with an... moreThe five “Theological Orations” of Gregory of Nazianzus represent at once Gregory's public response to his theological opponents as well as the most sustained and systematic presentation of his own Trinitarianism. They begin with an explicit address to the "Eunomians," the Neo-Arian followers of Eunomius of Cyzicus. Composed on the eve of the Nicenes' return to power in Constantinople after forty years in the ecclesiastical wilderness, the Theological Orations are presented as a vade mecum for a community still under persecution.This paper demonstrates how the set of Theological Orations constitute a response to another handbook compiled for a different theological community under persecution: the Syntagmation of Aetius. This short text begins with an address by Aetius to his persecuted "Anomoean" followers and takes the form of a list of questions and answers for use in theological disputes. Gregory's orations should be read in conjunction with the Syntagmation, as Gregory responds point-for-point to the concerns raised by Aetius and positions himself against the followers of Eunomius, the disciple and successor of Aetius himself.Save to LibraryDownloadby Byron MacDougall•  10  Greek Literature, Rhetoric, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, PatristicsН. П. Кондаков: Опись памятников древности в некоторых храмах и монастырях Грузии / Popis starožitností některých kostelů a klášterů Gruzie / Description antiques in some churches and monasteries of GeorgiaKniha vyšla v Petrohradu roku 1890 / The book was published in St. Petersburg in 1890 / / Книга была издана в Санкт-Петербурге в 1890 году.Save to LibraryDownloadby Digital library Bohemia and +1Nicodim Pavlovitch  Kondakov•  19  Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Iconography, Art History"Православная партия" и приход к власти императора Юстина I (518-527) ("The Orthodox Party" and Emperor Justin's I (518-527) coming to Power) // Vizantiyskiy Vremennik. 2007. Vol. 66The article analyses the data concerning the last years of the reign of Anastasius I (491-518) and the transition of power to pro-Chalcedonian elite in the Roman Empire. The article consists of three parts: 1. The Chalcedonians in the... moreThe article analyses the data concerning the last years of the reign of Anastasius I (491-518) and the transition of power to pro-Chalcedonian elite in the Roman Empire. The article consists of three parts: 1. The Chalcedonians in the last years of Anastasius' reign; 2. The final transition of power to the Orthodox (Chalcedonians). The Emperor Justin; 3. The overturn of the ecclesiastical policy in favour of the Orthodoxy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mikhail Gratsianskiy•  14  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Early Christianity, Early Medieval History, Byzantine StudiesA Collapse of the Eastern Mediterranean?"In his recent book „The Collapse of the Eastern Mediterranean“ (Cambridge 2012), Ronnie Ellenblum argues that a series of climatic disasters in the 11th cent. led to the decline of polities in the Near East and prepared the ground for... more"In his recent book „The Collapse of the Eastern Mediterranean“ (Cambridge 2012), Ronnie Ellenblum argues that a series of climatic disasters in the 11th cent. led to the decline of polities in the Near East and prepared the ground for both the advance of the Seljuks and of the Crusaders into the region. Focused on the Byzantine case during the „Comnenian period“, this paper will critically review this hypothesis on the basis of both textual and natural scientific evidence and propose a more nuanced picture of the interplay between society, climate and environment in the Eastern Mediterranean from the 11th to the 13th century. As will become clear, neither the complexity of natural phenomena nor the complexity of medieval societies should be reduced to mere linear lines of causation.This research was made possible with support of the Alexander S. Onassis Public Benefit-Foundation during a stay at the Institute for Historical Research of the National Hellenic Research Foundation in Athens.The following pages provide a first short overview over some material to be presented and discussed in this lecture.Contact: Johannes.Preiser-Kapeller@oeaw.ac.at "Save to LibraryDownloadby Johannes Preiser-Kapeller•  38  History, Economic History, Palaeoclimatology, Late Antique and Byzantine History"In The Beginning Was the Word": Art and Orthodoxy at the Councils of Trullo (692) and Nicaea II (787)Save to LibraryDownloadby Leslie Brubaker•  3  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Studies, Byzantine artΗ Νομοθετική Δραστηριότητα επί Διοκλητιανού και η κρατική παρέμβαση στον τομέα του Δικαίου. Ο Γρηγοριανός και ο Ερμογενειανός κώδικας (2008)[Μονογραφίες (αρ. 11) του Ινστιτούτου Βυζαντινών Ερευνών του Εθνικού Ιδρύματος Ερευνών], Αθήνα 2008, 485 σελ.Mit ZusammenfassungSave to LibraryDownloadby Dimitra Karamboula•  3  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Roman Law, Byzantine LawProcopius of Caesareea’s “History of Wars” and the Expression of Emotions in Early ByzantiumThe representation of emotions in Early Byzantine historical texts is still a field rich in potential for further investigations and interpretations. In this article, we aim to approach just a small section of this, looking at how some... moreThe representation of emotions in Early Byzantine historical texts is still a field rich in potential for further investigations and interpretations. In this article, we aim to approach just a small section of this, looking at how some specific emotions: fear, love, anger, sorrow and joy, and their particular expressions, appear in Procopius&#39; History of Wars. We look particularly at manifestations of emotions depicted in military and political contexts and ask how and why these fitted with societal norms and expectations, what were the gender specificities, real or imagined, of expressing emotions.Save to Libraryby Ecaterina Lung•  9  History, Cultural History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, HistoriographyNextLast »Related TopicsByzantine StudiesFollowFollowingLate Antique and Byzantine HistoryFollowFollowingLate AntiquityFollowFollowingByzantine HistoryFollowFollowingByzantine ArchaeologyFollowFollowingByzantine artFollowFollowingLate Antique ArchaeologyFollowFollowingByzantine LiteratureFollowFollowingByzantine ArchitectureFollowFollowingByzantine IconographyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023