BBC News - England - Profile
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Languages
Russian
Albanian
Serbian
Turkish
Ukrainian
More
Page last updated at 12:56 GMT, Monday, 12 December 2011

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            

England - Profile
England is the largest constituent part of the United Kingdom, and accounts for 83 per cent of its population and most of its economic activity. Issues affecting the United Kingdom as a whole therefore also apply to England in particular, especially in the case of identity politics. England's continuing contribution to world civilisation is significant, ranging from language to sport, music and law. 
The various kingdoms set up by Germanic settlers in the 5th-6th centuries were finally united into the Kingdom of England between 927 and 954. The Norman Conquest of 1066 brought in a new ruling class from northern France and heavily influenced the language, culture and European orientation of the country.
Weather - good or bad - is a popular topic of conversation
England gradually annexed Wales and established hegemony over Ireland and Scotland. This Kingdom of England had a distinct identity until it was subsumed into the United Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. The establishment of devolved parliaments in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales after 1997 gave those constituent parts of the United Kingdom their own political identity, leaving England the only part directly run by the British government. This has raised the profile of the "West Lothian question", namely that Scottish MPs can vote on specifically English matters in the Westminster parliament while English MPs have no say over Scottish affairs. Between 1998 and 2010, England had its own quasi-governmental organisations and Regional Assemblies. In June 2010, the new Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government announced that it was abolishing regional strategies and returning planning powers to local government. Only the London Assembly, which was formed in 2000, is directly elected. The Assembly holds the Mayor of London - the most powerful directly-elected politician in the United Kingdom - to account by monitoring his spending and other activities. The former Labour government's proposals for other elected assemblies were dealt a blow by the rejection of such a body in the North-East of England in a 2004 referendum. Plans for referendums in other regions were subsequently abandoned. A campaign for an English parliament grew out of a belief in certain quarters that the Devolution acts of 1998 had put England at a serious political and constitutional disadvantage. Cornwall, an English county with a separate Celtic identity, has also seen a campaign for its own devolved regional assembly. IdentityAccording to the most recent census data, about 95% of the population of Scotland and Wales identify as White British, rising to 99% in Northern Ireland. The comparable figure for England is just under 85%. Therefore most of the British debate about ethnic diversity, immigration and national identity in fact applies to England. This sensitive political question is further complicated by two factors. 
Many England footballers are known the world over
First, British and English institutions and national identifiers such as flag, language, anthem and popular culture largely overlap. As a result, markers of specific English identity, such as the flag of St George, tend to be unofficial, while similar signs of Scottish and Welsh nationhood are sanctioned by the separate institutions of those countries. Second, Scottish and Welsh nationalist movements have long been part of the political mainstream, and are seen as champions of legitimate historical national identities. English nationalism, on the other hand, has often been portrayed as a reaction to non-white immigration and seen as largely the province of the far right. But there is a constitutional nationalist movement that focuses on the English parliament issue. This makes public discussion of English identity politics difficult, as politicians on the left and right have discovered, as accusations of racism and appeasement of minorities are exchanged. The one area where English identity is able to develop without political controversy is the realm of culture, and sporting teams are often the most comfortable focus for national loyalty. CultureEngland has made a number of major contributions to civilisation, perhaps the most significant being its language. Through a combination of British colonial expansion and trade, plus the world-power status of the United States since 1945, English has approached de facto international second language status. Outside the large areas of the world where it is already an official if not first language, English predominates in international diplomacy and has become the main language in science, communications, business and the entertainment industry. It is estimated that more than a billion people can speak English at a basic level. Among other cultural achievements, England's sporting life is followed worldwide, in particular its football Premier League and cricket team. In terms of popular music, England's international impact has rivalled that of the United States from the Beatles and the Rolling Stones to the club scene of the 1990s and beyond. Law
English law - represented by TV character Rumpole - underpins a variety of legal systems abroad
English law underpins a variety of legal systems worldwide. A common-law system distinct from that practised in the rest of Europe, it spread with the expansion of the British Empire and applies in many countries previously ruled by Britain. Under common law, judges apply legal precedent in court on the basis of previous court rulings. This is distinct from civil law, the predominant legal system in the world, which requires judges to apply prior abstract rules to cases under consideration. As the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union, European civil law is also applicable in England and Wales in matters pertaining to interpretation of European Union law. FACTS
 EnglandStatus: Part of United Kingdom Population: 51.45 million (2008 official estimate) Capital: London Area: 130,395 sq km (50,346 sq miles) Major language: English Major religion: Christianity Life expectancy: 77 years (men), 82 years (women) (UN) Monetary unit: 1 pound sterling = 100 pence Main exports: Manufactured goods, chemicals, foodstuffs GNI per capita (UK figure): US $45,390 (World Bank, 2008) Internet domain: .uk International dialling code: +44 
MEDIALondon is the hub of the media industry in England and the UK. The capital is a major centre for broadcasting, film and programme making, publishing and new media. Most of the BBC's UK-wide TV and radio networks are based in London, although the corporation is moving some programme departments to Manchester, in north-west England. 
BBC local radio serves communities from the Channel Islands to the Scottish border 
The BBC and commercial operators run TV and radio services across the English regions. Local TV output often comprises a half-hour evening programme, featuring regional stories. The BBC's English Regions local radio network comprises 40 stations, many of them serving a single county. Outlets follow a news and speech-based remit. Local and regional commercial radio formats are often music-based. The radio market, particularly in London, is highly competitive. The UK's national newspaper titles publish from London, although they have deserted their famous Fleet Street home. There is a lively local and regional press scene; many dailies and weeklies are owned by large publishing groups. Some papers distribute free copies in an attempt to stem declining circulations. The pressEvening Standard - London's evening daily Manchester Evening News - north-west daily Birmingham Post/Birmingham Mail - West Midlands stablemates Yorkshire Post - Leeds-based daily Evening Chronicle - Newcastle-based daily Western Morning News - Plymouth-based daily TelevisionBBC English Regions regional TVITV Local - regional services from leading commercial TV network RadioBBC English Regions local radioRadioCentre - commercial radio industry body BBC London 94.9 FM - BBC's station for the capital LBC - London, commercial, news and talk 
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            
Print Sponsor
COUNTRY PROFILES



A GUIDE TO EUROPE


                        Choose a country
                    

                            Albania 
                        

                            Andorra 
                        

                            Armenia 
                        

                            Austria 
                        

                            Azerbaijan 
                        

                            Belarus 
                        

                            Belgium 
                        

                            Bosnia-Herceg
                        

                            Bulgaria 
                        

                            Croatia 
                        

                            Cyprus 
                        

                            Czech Republic 
                        

                            Denmark 
                        

                            Estonia 
                        

                            Finland 
                        

                            France 
                        

                            Georgia 
                        

                            Germany 
                        

                            Greece 
                        

                            Hungary 
                        

                            Iceland 
                        

                            Ireland 
                        

                            Italy 
                        

                            Latvia 
                        

                            Liechtenstein 
                        

                            Lithuania 
                        

                            Luxembourg 
                        

                            Macedonia 
                        

                            Malta 
                        

                            Moldova 
                        

                            Monaco 
                        

                            Montenegro 
                        

                            Netherlands 
                        

                            Norway 
                        

                            Poland 
                        

                            Portugal 
                        

                            Romania 
                        

                            Russia 
                        

                            San Marino 
                        

                            Serbia 
                        

                            Slovakia
                        

                            Slovenia 
                        

                            Spain
                        

                            Sweden 
                        

                            Switzerland 
                        

                            Turkey 
                        

                            Ukraine 
                        

                            United Kingdom 
                        

                            Vatican
                        
 

                        Find a territory
                    

                            Abkhazia 
                        

                            Ajaria
                        

                            Catalonia 
                        

                            Ceuta, Melilla 
                        

                            Channel Islands 
                        

                            Chechnya 
                        

                            Corsica
                        

                            Crimea 
                        

                            Dagestan
                        

                            Faroe Islands 
                        

                            Gibraltar 
                        

                            Greenland 
                        

                            Ingushetia 
                        

                            Isle of Man 
                        

                            Kabardino-Balkar
                        

                            Kaliningrad 
                        

                            Kalmykia
                        

                            Karachay-Cherkes
                        

                            Kosovo 
                        

                            Nagorno-Karabakh
                        

                            North Ossetia
                        

                            South Ossetia 
                        

                            Trans-Dniester 
                        
 



Compiled by BBC Monitoring


                GUIDE TO UNITED KINGDOM
            

                            England
                        

                            Northern Ireland
                        

                            Scotland
                        

                            Wales
                        

                            United Kingdom 
                        
 

                UK TERRITORIES
            

                            Anguilla 
                        

                            Bermuda
                        

                            Brit Virgin Isla
                        

                            Cayman Islands 
                        

                            Gibraltar 
                        

                            Falkland Islands
                        

                            Montserrat 
                        

                            St Helena, Ascen
                        

                            Turks and Caicos
                        
 

                                        RELATED INTERNET LINKS
                                        
                                

                                                        England Tourist Board
                                                        
                                                

                                                        English Heritage
                                                        
                                                

                                                        Natural England
                                                        
                                                

                                                        English Regions Network
                                                        
                                                

                                                The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
                                        
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Tourists flock to 'Jesus's tomb' in Kashmir
Most popular now, in detail 
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail 
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Indonesia's female 'devil wheel' riders
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail 



FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS

Ghost town




Has China's housing bubble burst?



The guerilla plant 




How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire



Walking away




Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit



Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
 
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts