TV & Home - Apple
AppleStoreMaciPadiPhoneWatchVisionAirPodsTV & HomeEntertainmentAccessoriesSupport
0+
Apple TV 4K
Apple TV app
Apple TV+
HomePod
New
HomePod mini
Home app
Accessories
The future hits home.
Simply connect your favorite devices and transform your house into a remarkably smart, convenient, and entertaining home. Elevate movie night with theater-like picture and sound. Play any song, in any room, from anywhere. And control lights, locks, and thermostats using Siri. All with the security and privacy of Apple.
HomePod
Profound sound.
Buy
Learn more 
HomePod mini
Surprising sound for its size.
Buy
Learn more 
The Apple experience. Cinematic in every sense.
Starting at $129
Buy
Learn more 
Home app
The foundation for a smarter home.
Learn more 
Every reason to turn your house into a smart home.
Easily control your home from anywhere with your favorite devices.
Learn more about the Home app 
Seamlessly connected entertainment in every room.
Learn more about HomePod 
Run it all with your voice.
Learn more about Siri 
Hey Siri, set my bedtime scene
Hey Siri, make it warmer
Hey Siri, turn off the lights downstairs
All with the security  and privacy of Apple.
Learn more about Privacy 
Accessories. Around your home and across your devices.
Shop accessories 
Lighting
Put your routine on a timer. Or set the mood with bulbs and switches.
Shop Lights & Bulbs, Outlets, and Switches 
Nanoleaf A19 Bulb
Security
Keep an eye on what matters most with cameras, doorbells, and more.
Shop Cameras and Sensors 
Logitech Circle View Wired Doorbell
Comfort
Turn up the heat or keep your cool with temperature controls and fans.
Shop Thermostats 
ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium with Siri and Built‑In Air Quality Monitor
Entry
Unlock more ways to access your home with locks and garage door openers.
Shop Sensors and Locks1 
Level Lock+ with Home Key Support
Watch, sing, play, and work out. On the big screen.
Stream award-winning Apple Originals on every screen.
Try it free2
Learn more 
Access all your favorite songs and sing along with lyrics view.
Try it free3
Learn more 
From HIIT to Meditation, there’s something for everyone.
Try it free4
Learn more 
Over 200 incredibly fun games. No ads. No in-app purchases.
Try it free5
Learn more 
Apple Footer
Fast, free delivery
Or pick up available items at an Apple Store.
Learn more
Get help buying
Have a question? Call a Specialist or chat online.
Call 1-800-MY-APPLE.
Contact us
* Customers receive an Apple Gift Card when they purchase an eligible Apple TV at a Qualifying Location up to and including
7/14.
Only one (1) Apple Gift Card per eligible Apple TV and a maximum purchase limit of two (2) Apple TVs per customer. Offer subject to availability. While supplies last. Customers shall receive a discount equal to the value of the Apple Gift Card off the price of the eligible Apple TV, but will be charged for all items in their cart. Important notice regarding the checkout receipt and monthly statement for Apple Card Monthly Installment (ACMI) purchases with this promotion: Customers selecting ACMI (a 0% APR payment option available only in the U.S.) as payment type at checkout shall receive a discount equal to the value of the Apple Gift Card off the price of the eligible Apple TV. This will result in one ACMI installment plan over 6 months for the eligible Apple TV discounted by the instant credit, and a second ACMI installment plan over 6 months for the full price of the Apple Gift Card. The total combined amount charged over the two separate ACMI installment plans will reflect the original full retail price of the Apple TV. Separately, customers will receive and be charged for the Apple Gift Card in the amount of the applicable discount off the eligible Apple TV. ACMI is subject to credit approval and credit limit.
Variable APRs for Apple Card range from 19.24% to 29.49% based on creditworthiness. Rates as of August 10, 2023. Existing customers can view their variable APR in the Wallet app or card.apple.com.If you choose the pay-in-full or one-time-payment option for an ACMI-eligible purchase instead of choosing ACMI as the payment option at checkout, that purchase will be subject to the variable APR assigned to your Apple Card. Taxes and shipping are not included in ACMI transactions and are subject to your standard purchase APR. See the Apple Card Customer Agreement at www.goldmansachs.com/terms-and-conditions/Apple-Card-Customer-Agreement.pdf for more information. ACMI is not available for purchases made online at the following special stores: Apple Employee Purchase Plan; participating corporate Employee Purchase Programs; Apple at Work for small businesses; Government, and Veterans and Military Purchase Programs, or on refurbished devices. Apple Card is issued by Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Salt Lake City Branch. Available for qualifying applicants in the United States. If you reside in the U.S. territories, please call Goldman Sachs at 877-255-5923 with questions about accessing this offer or applying for Apple Card. Except for ACMI, this offer cannot be combined with other Apple promotion(s) or financing offers that are directed to individual end-user customers in the Qualifying Location. This offer cannot be combined with the Apple Employee Purchase Plan or business loyalty pricing. Availability of in-store promotion offerings may be limited by Apple Store location closures as a result of COVID-19. Additional restrictions apply. View full terms and conditions of offer here.
Product availability varies by country.
New subscribers only.
$6.99/month after free trial. Plan automatically renews until cancelled. Terms apply.
New subscribers only.
$10.99/month after free trial. Plan automatically renews until cancelled. Terms apply.
Apple Watch required. New subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. Plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. Terms apply.
New subscribers only. $4.99/month after free trial. Plan automatically renews until cancelled. Terms apply.
“coastline” written by mehro.

Apple
TV & Home
Shop and Learn
Shop and Learn
+
Store
Mac
iPad
iPhone
Watch
Vision
AirPods
TV & Home
AirTag
Accessories
Gift Cards
Apple Wallet
Apple Wallet
+
Wallet
Apple Card
Apple Pay
Apple Cash
Account
Account
+
Manage Your Apple ID
Apple Store Account
iCloud.com
Entertainment
Entertainment
+
Apple One
Apple TV+
Apple Music
Apple Arcade
Apple Fitness+
Apple News+
Apple Podcasts
Apple Books
App Store
Apple Store
Apple Store
+
Find a Store
Genius Bar
Today at Apple
Apple Camp
Apple Store App
Certified Refurbished
Apple Trade In
Financing
Carrier Deals at Apple
Order Status
Shopping Help
For Business
For Business
+
Apple and Business
Shop for Business
For Education
For Education
+
Apple and Education
Shop for K-12
Shop for College
For Healthcare
For Healthcare
+
Apple in Healthcare
Health on Apple Watch
Health Records on iPhone
For Government
For Government
+
Shop for Government
Shop for Veterans and Military
Apple Values
Apple Values
+
Accessibility
Education
Environment
Inclusion and Diversity
Privacy
Racial Equity and Justice
Supplier Responsibility
About Apple
About Apple
+
Newsroom
Apple Leadership
Career Opportunities
Investors
Ethics & Compliance
Events
Contact Apple
More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE.
United States
Copyright ©
2023
 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sales and Refunds
Legal
Site Map