Trinidad Express Newspapers:  | $600 million in cocaine from T&T seized at U.S port
21 captures
20 Jan 2014 - 07 Dec 2022
Feb
MAR
Jun
05
2014
2016
2017
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20160305074431/http://www.trinidadexpress.com/news/600-million-in-cocaine-from-TT-seized-at-US-port-240786121.html
Our Apps
Contact Us
Advertising Info
Feedback
Saturday, March 5, 2016
Toggle navigation
Menu
News
Sports
Business
Features
Editorial
Letters
E-Paper
Classifieds
CCN TV6
More  
Print Classifieds
Express Carnival
Press Releases
Sunday MIX
Woman Magazine
Search
Submit
$600 million in cocaine from T&T seized at U.S port
...concealed in cans of juice
Published on Jan 17, 2014, 9:09 am AST
Updated on Jan 17, 2014, 5:10 pm AST
 Comments
Article
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
203961-biggest-cocaine-bust-in-port-of-norfolk-his
The cocaine was concealed in these cans and the bust is considered the biggest in Norfolk history.
Donstan Bonn
203960-biggest-cocaine-bust-in-port-of-norfolk-his
Some of the cocaine found in cans of juice that originated in Trinidad and Tobago and seized in the United State in December.
Donstan Bonn
                AN estimated U.S $100 million worth in cocaine concealed in fruit juice cans originating in Trinidad and Tobago was seized by United States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officers in Virginia, United States in December. 
The shipment smuggled in Trinidad Orange Juice cans which are manufactured by Citrus Growers Association, was discovered at the Port of Norfolk. 
The cans were discovered in a shipping contained which was destined for New York, according to online news reports. 
The cocaine was hidden in over 700 cans which were among thousands of cans, many of which contained juice. 
According to CBP officers, there was no difference in the cans from the outside, according to News 3 television news. 
The seizure was described by the CBP as "the largest in the port's history". 
Mark Laria, Customs and Border Protection Area Port Director, told the US media : "We used every tool at our disposal. We have large scale X-ray equipment we have small scale x-ray equipment, we have probes, we have various tools and technology that were brought to bear on this shipment and it took every bit of it plus the officers knowledge and intuition to locate the cocaine in this shipment".
"I have children of my own, I’m always worried about where these drugs end up, are they getting to schools and for that reason I could not be more excited that this amount of cocaine is not going to make it out onto the streets", said Laria. 
The CBP officers said the use of fruit cans is just one example of how creative drug traffickers are getting, having even used body bags in the past. 
Tags
Local
 
RELATED STORIES on 
TICKET STAMPED*
Bajan crowned ‘Tranquil’ champ again*
Parkites, PowerGen resume rivalry
 
Front Pages
Most Read
They seized her guns and bullets heels
PROBE CAMILLE*
These men are rowing from Portugal to Trinidad
Analysts: Rowley's comments can hurt State bank*
Baby Miracle loses battle to live 
TT$ hits new  low against US$ *
Hotel security hounds the media*
Waithe to Rowley: Prove  you are not a hypocrite*
Prison officers ‘afraid to go home’*
Fracas outside St Joseph Secondary
Social Wall
Facebook
Twitter
Trinidad Express Newspapers
Tweets by @expressupdates
Pulse
                                Poll question 1?
                            
                                Poll Question 2?
                            
Vote
News
Sports
Business
Features
Editorial
Letters
E-Paper
Classifieds
Advertise
Beyond The Tape
Photos
Print Classifieds
©2015 Caribbean Communication Network
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Sevice
Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions