Monash University | Monash Micro Imaging - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Monash UniversityMonash Micro Imaging  All Departments39 Documents2 ResearchersAtopy, Autonomic Function and β‐Adrenergic Receptor AutoantibodiesLEN C. HARRISON, JUDY CALLAGHAN, J . CRAIG VENTER,* CLAIRE M. FRASER* and MICHAEL L. KALINER** The Endocrine Laboratory, Royal Melbourne Hospital, P. 0. ... *State University of New York, Buffalo, New York 14214 and **National Institutes... moreLEN C. HARRISON, JUDY CALLAGHAN, J . CRAIG VENTER,* CLAIRE M. FRASER* and MICHAEL L. KALINER** The Endocrine Laboratory, Royal Melbourne Hospital, P. 0. ... *State University of New York, Buffalo, New York 14214 and **National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, ...Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•AutoantibodiesThe functions of Mediator in Candida albicans support a role in shaping species-specific gene expressionSave to LibraryDownloadby Judy callaghan•  14  Genetics, Biofilms, Gene regulation, Gene expressionEvidence that intracellular β1-2 mannan is a virulence factor in Leishmania parasitesThe protozoan parasite Leishmania mexicana proliferates within macrophage phagolysosomes in the mammalian host. In this study we provide evidence that a novel class of intracellular beta1-2 mannan oligosaccharides is important for... moreThe protozoan parasite Leishmania mexicana proliferates within macrophage phagolysosomes in the mammalian host. In this study we provide evidence that a novel class of intracellular beta1-2 mannan oligosaccharides is important for parasite survival in host macrophages. Mannan (degree of polymerization 4-40) is expressed at low levels in non-pathogenic promastigote stages but constitutes 80 and 90% of the cellular carbohydrate in the two developmental stages that infect macrophages, non-dividing promastigotes, and lesion-derived amastigotes, respectively. Mannan is catabolized when parasites are starved of glucose, suggesting a reserve function, and developmental stages having low mannan levels or L. mexicana GDPMP mutants lacking all mannose molecules are highly sensitive to glucose starvation. Environmental stresses, such as mild heat shock or the heat shock protein-90 inhibitor, geldanamycin, that trigger the differentiation of promastigotes to amastigotes, result in a 10-25-fold increase in mannan levels. Developmental stages with low mannan levels or L. mexicana mutants lacking mannan do not survive heat shock and are unable to differentiate to amastigotes or infect macrophages in vitro. In contrast, a L. mexicana mutant deficient only in components of the mannose-rich surface glycocalyx differentiates normally and infects macrophages in vitro. Collectively, these data provide strong evidence that mannan accumulation is important for parasite differentiation and survival in macrophages.Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  18  Macrophages, Biological Chemistry, Leishmania, Cell DivisionThe Parietal Cell Autoantibodies Recognized in Neonatal Thymectomy-Induced Murine Gastritis Are the cy and p Subunits of the Gastric Proton PumpSave to Libraryby Judy callaghan•The small GTPase Rab22 interacts with EEA1 and controls endosomal membrane traffickingRab22a is a small GTPase that is expressed ubiquitously in mammalian tissues and displays the highest sequence homology to Rab5. In BHK-21 cells, overexpression of the wild-type Rab22a caused formation of abnormally large vacuole-like... moreRab22a is a small GTPase that is expressed ubiquitously in mammalian tissues and displays the highest sequence homology to Rab5. In BHK-21 cells, overexpression of the wild-type Rab22a caused formation of abnormally large vacuole-like structures containing the early-endosomal antigen EEA1 but not Rab11, a marker of recycling endosomes or the late-endosomal/lysosomal markers LAMP-1 and lyso-bis-phosphatidic acid. In HeLa cells, overexpressed Rab22a was found on smaller EEA1-positive endosomes, but a portion of the protein was also found in the Golgi complex. Using the yeast two-hybrid system and a biochemical pull-down assay, the GTP-bound form of Rab22a was found to interact with the N-terminus of EEA1. In HeLa cells overexpressing Rab22a or its mutants affected in the GTPase cycle, no significant changes were observed in the uptake of Alexa-transferrin. However, the GTPase-deficient Rab22a Q64L mutant caused a redistribution of transferrin-positive endosomes to the leading edges of cells and a fragmentation of the Golgi complex. In BHK cells, the Q64L mutant caused the accumulation of a fluid phase marker, TRITC-dextran, and a lysosomal hydrolase, aspartylglucosaminidase, in abnormal vacuole-like structures that contained both early and late endosome markers. Both the wild-type Rab22a and the Q64L mutant were found to interfere with the degradation of EGF. These results suggest that Rab22a may regulate the dynamic interactions of endosomal compartments and it may be involved in the communication between the biosynthetic and early endocytic pathways.Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  15  Membrane Proteins, Biological Sciences, Humans, MutationEEA1, an early endosome-associated protein. EEA1 is a conserved α-helical peripheral membrane protein flanked by cysteine “fingers” and contains a calmodulin-binding IQ motifEarly endosomes are cellular compartments receiving endocytosed material and sorting them for vesicular transport to late endosomes and lysosomes or for recycling to the plasma membrane. We have cloned a human cDNA encoding an... moreEarly endosomes are cellular compartments receiving endocytosed material and sorting them for vesicular transport to late endosomes and lysosomes or for recycling to the plasma membrane. We have cloned a human cDNA encoding an evolutionarily conserved 180-kDa protein on early endosomes named EEA1 (Early Endosome Antigen1). EEA1 is associated with early endosomes since it co-localizes by immunofluorescence with the transferrin receptor and with Rab5 but not with Rab7. Immunoelectron microscopy shows that it is associated with tubulovesicular early endosomes containing internalized bovine serum albumin-gold. EEA1 is a hydrophilic peripheral membrane protein present in cytosol and membrane fractions. It partitions in the aqueous phase after Triton X-114 solubilization and is extracted from membranes by 0.3 M NaCl. It is a predominantly alpha-helical protein sharing 17-20% sequence identity with the myosins and contains a calmodulin-binding IQ motif. It is flanked by metal-binding, cysteine &amp;quot;finger&amp;quot; motifs. The COOH-terminal fingers, Cys-X2-Cys-X12-Cys-X2-Cys and Cys-X2-Cys-X16-Cys-X2-Cys, are present within a region that is strikingly homologous with Saccharomyces cerevisiae FAB1 protein required for endocytosis and with Caenorhabditis elegans ZK632. These fingers also show limited conservation with S. cerevisiae VAC1, Vps11, and Vps18p proteins implicated in vacuolar transport. We propose that EEA1 is required for vesicular transport of proteins through early endosomes and that its finger motifs are required for this activity.Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  21  Membrane Proteins, Biological Chemistry, Biological Sciences, HumansRegulated Degradation of an Endoplasmic Reticulum Membrane Protein in a Tubular Lysosome in Leishmania mexicanaSave to LibraryDownloadby Judy callaghan•  21  Electron Microscopy, Molecular Biology, Immunohistochemistry, Confocal MicroscopyNontypeable Haemophilus influenzae Induces Sustained Lung Oxidative Stress and Protease ExpressionNontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) is a prevalent bacterium found in a variety of chronic respiratory diseases. The role of this bacterium in the pathogenesis of lung inflammation is not well defined. In this study we examined the... moreNontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) is a prevalent bacterium found in a variety of chronic respiratory diseases. The role of this bacterium in the pathogenesis of lung inflammation is not well defined. In this study we examined the effect of NTHi on two important lung inflammatory processes 1), oxidative stress and 2), protease expression. Bronchoalveolar macrophages were obtained from 121 human subjects, blood neutrophils from 15 subjects, and human-lung fibroblast and epithelial cell lines from 16 subjects. Cells were stimulated with NTHi to measure the effect on reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and extracellular trap formation. We also measured the production of the oxidant, 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) in the lungs of mice infected with this bacterium. NTHi induced widespread production of 3-NT in mouse lungs. This bacterium induced significantly increased ROS production in human fibroblasts, epithelial cells, macrophages and neutrophils; with the highest levels in the phagocytic cells. In human macrophages NTHi caused a sustained, extracellular production of ROS that increased over time. The production of ROS was associated with the formation of macrophage extracellular trap-like structures which co-expressed the protease metalloproteinase-12. The formation of the macrophage extracellular trap-like structures was markedly inhibited by the addition of DNase. In this study we have demonstrated that NTHi induces lung oxidative stress with macrophage extracellular trap formation and associated protease expression. DNase inhibited the formation of extracellular traps.Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  16  Oxidative Stress, Macrophages, Multidisciplinary, HumansThe 60- to 90-kDa Parietal Cell Autoantigen Associated with Autoimmune Gastritis is a beta Subunit of the Gastric H^+/K^+ATPase (Proton Pump)Autoantibodies in the sera of patients with pernicious anemia recognize, in addition to the α subunit of the gastric H^+/K^+-ATPase, an abundant gastric microsomal glycoprotein of apparent M_r 60,000-90,000. Herein we have colocalized the... moreAutoantibodies in the sera of patients with pernicious anemia recognize, in addition to the α subunit of the gastric H^+/K^+-ATPase, an abundant gastric microsomal glycoprotein of apparent M_r 60,000-90,000. Herein we have colocalized the glycoprotein and the α subunit of the gastric H^+/K^+-ATPase to the tubulovesicular membranes of the parietal cell by immunogold electron microscopy. Moreover, the glycoprotein and the α subunit were coimmunoprecipitated, and copurified by immunoaffinity chromatography, with an anti-glycoprotein monoclonal antibody. The pig glycoprotein was purified by chromatography on tomato lectin-Sepharose, and five tryptic peptides from the purified glycoprotein were partially sequenced. The complete amino acid sequence, deduced from the nucleotide sequence of overlapping cDNA clones, showed 33% similarity to the sequence of the β subunit of the pig kidney Na^+/K^+-ATPase. We therefore propose that the 60- to 90-kDa glycoprotein autoantigen is the β subunit of the gastric H^+/K^+-ATPase and that the α and β subunits of the proton pump are major targets for autoimmunization in autoimmune gastritis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Judy callaghan•  21  Electron Microscopy, Multidisciplinary, Dogs, HumansPoly-N-acetyllactosamine-specific tomato lectin interacts with gastric parietal cells. Identification of a tomato-lectin binding 60–90 X 10 (3) Mr membrane glycoprotein of tubulovesiclesThe cytoplasmic tubulovesicular and canalicular membranes of gastric parietal cells are intimately involved in hydrochloric acid secretion. To characterise the glycoproteins of these membranes, we examined a panel of lectins for... moreThe cytoplasmic tubulovesicular and canalicular membranes of gastric parietal cells are intimately involved in hydrochloric acid secretion. To characterise the glycoproteins of these membranes, we examined a panel of lectins for reactivity with parietal cells in paraffin sections of rat, dog and pig stomach. The poly-N-acetyllactosamine-specific lectin from Lycopersicon esculentum (tomato) and from Solanum tuberosum (potato), and the galactose-specific lectin Ricinus communis agglutinin (RCA120), showed strong cytoplasmic binding of parietal cells of all three species, with a pattern indicative of an intracellular membrane network. Binding to parietal cells was confirmed by double-labelling studies with parietal cell auto-antibodies from patients with autoimmune gastritis. Mucous cells and mucin also bound these lectins strongly. Other gastric cell types did not stain with either tomato or potato lectin, but stained weakly with RCA120. Electron-microscopic examination of lectin binding sites using biotinylated tomato lectin or RCA120 and streptavidin-gold, revealed specific binding to the luminal face of parietal cell tubulovesicular and canalicular membranes as well as the contents of mucous cell secretory granules. Tomato lectin and RCA120 reacted by lectin blotting with a major species of apparent molecular weight 60-90 X 10(3) Mr from rat, dog and pig gastric membranes. A tubulovesicular membrane fraction, enriched 10-fold for K(+)-dependent phosphatase activity, was also enriched three-fold for tomato lectin binding as assessed by a solid-phase lectin assay. The 60-90K (K = 10(3) Mr) component, in 125I-labelled detergent extracts of dog tubulovesicular membranes, bound to an affinity support of tomato lectin-Sepharose and was specifically eluted with N,N&amp;#39;,N&amp;#39;-triacetylchitotriose. Digestion with N-glycanase collapsed the 60-90K component into a sharp 35K band. We conclude that: (1) a 60-90K membrane glycoprotein localised on the luminal face of tubulovesicles and canaliculi of parietal cells interacts strongly with tomato lectin and RCA120; and (2) the glycoprotein is composed of a 35K core protein glycosylated with N-glycans probably containing poly-N-acetyllactosamine sequences with terminal galactosyl residues. The properties of this 60-90K glycoprotein are identical to a major parietal cell autoantigen recognised by sera of patients with autoimmune gastritis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  14  Polysaccharides, Biological Sciences, Dogs, AnimalsThe directed differentiation of human iPS cells into kidney podocytesSave to LibraryDownloadby Judy callaghan•  22  Engineering, Physics, Chemistry, BiologyGastric parietal cell development: Expression of the H^+/K^+ ATPase subunits coincides with the biogenesis of the secretory membranesSave to LibraryDownloadby Judy callaghan•  9  Immunology, Immunohistochemistry, Mice, AnimalsExacerbation of bronchial asthma following treatment with amiodarone. Demonstration of an antiadrenergic effect in vitroWe describe a patient with bronchial asthma whose respiratory symptoms worsened during treatment and rechallenge with amiodarone. Laboratory studies on cultured pulmonary cells demonstrated an anti-beta-adrenergic effect of amiodarone not... moreWe describe a patient with bronchial asthma whose respiratory symptoms worsened during treatment and rechallenge with amiodarone. Laboratory studies on cultured pulmonary cells demonstrated an anti-beta-adrenergic effect of amiodarone not due to inhibition of beta-adrenergic receptor binding. Amiodarone should be used with caution in patients with obstructive pulmonary disease.Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  11  Asthma, Humans, Female, LungThe gastric H+/K+-ATPaseSave to Libraryby Judy callaghan•Characterization of a novel Golgi localization domainSave to Libraryby Judy callaghan•TARGET ANTIGENS IN AUTOIt. UlUNITYSave to Libraryby Judy callaghan•Diagnostic Elisa for Parietal Cell Autoantibody Using Tomato Lectin-Purified Gastric H + /K + Atpase (Proton Pump)Circulating parietal cell autoantibodies, a useful diagnostic marker for autoimmune gastritis and pernicious anaemia, are currently routinely tested by serum immunofluorescence reactivity with frozen sections of rodent stomach. The major... moreCirculating parietal cell autoantibodies, a useful diagnostic marker for autoimmune gastritis and pernicious anaemia, are currently routinely tested by serum immunofluorescence reactivity with frozen sections of rodent stomach. The major molecular targets of these parietal cell autoantibodies have recently been demonstrated to be the alpha- and the beta-subunits of the gastric H+/K(+)-ATPase (proton pump). We have demonstrated that tomato lectin binds specifically to the beta-subunit of the proton pump and concomittantly co-purifies the alpha-subunit. In the present study, we have exploited the latter observation for the development of a diagnostic ELISA for the detection of parietal cell autoantibodies and compared the performance of this assay with an ELISA using crude gastric membranes. The ELISAs were tested on 72 parietal cell autoantibody-positive sera, 72 parietal cell autoantibody-negative sera and 72 disease-control sera. The ELISA using lectin-purified canine proton pump was superior to that using crude canine gastric membranes in that it was about two-fold more sensitive (82% vs. 43%). With an assay sensitivity of 82% and a specificity of 90%, we propose that the ELISA using the lectin-purified proton pump is a rapid, simple, sensitive and specific diagnostic immunoassay for parietal cell autoantibodies.Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  9  Immunology, Autoimmunity, Humans, LectinsDirect interaction of EEA1 with Rab5bSave to LibraryDownloadby Judy callaghan•  14  Membrane Proteins, Brain, Humans, AnimalsEEA1 links PI (3) K function to Rab5 regulation of endosome fusionGTPases and lipid kinases regulate membrane traffic along the endocytic pathway by mechanisms that are not completely understood. Fusion between early endosomes requires phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K) activity as well as the... moreGTPases and lipid kinases regulate membrane traffic along the endocytic pathway by mechanisms that are not completely understood. Fusion between early endosomes requires phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K) activity as well as the small GTPase Rab5. Excess Rab5-GTP complex restores endosome fusion when PI(3)K is inhibited. Here we identify the early-endosomal autoantigen EEA1 which binds the PI(3)K product phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate, as a new Rab5 effector that is required for endosome fusion. The association of EEA1 with the endosomal membrane requires Rab5-GTP and PI(3)K activity, and excess Rab5-GTP stabilizes the membrane association of EEA1 even when PI(3)K is inhibited. The identification of EEA1 as a direct Rab5 effector provides a molecular link between PI(3)K and Rab5, and its restricted distribution to early endosomes indicates that EEA1 may confer directionality to Rab5-dependent endocytic transport.Save to Libraryby Judy callaghan•  60  Pharmacology, Biochemistry, Bioinformatics, Evolutionary BiologyThe 60-to 90-kDa parietal cell autoantigen associated with autoimmune gastritis is a beta subunit of the gastric H+/K (+)-ATPase (proton pump)Save to LibraryDownloadby Judy callaghan•  21  Electron Microscopy, Multidisciplinary, Dogs, Humans
1
2
Next ›
Last »
 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023