Migration Studies Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Migration Studies130,495 FollowersRecent papers in Migration StudiesTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleThe Integration Matrix Reloaded: From Ethnic Fixations to Established Versus Outsiders Dynamics in the Netherlands (J of Ethnicity and Migration, with Barak Kalir)In the Netherlands, there is increasingly critical debate about the government’s top- down ethnic categorisation procedures and the assumption that analyses of integration should be based on internally homogeneous (and dichotomous)... moreIn the Netherlands, there is increasingly critical debate about the government’s top- down ethnic categorisation procedures and the assumption that analyses of integration should be based on internally homogeneous (and dichotomous) ethno-cultural blocks. While concerns about the ageing approach mount, no unified alternative framework has emerged. Informed by Brubaker’s work on ‘groupism’, we provide an account of the currently dominant approach and outline an alternative vision of social divisions, exclusion and inclusion. More specifically, we offer a framework that can help researchers consider easing away from ethnic reification (as well as from the attendant analytic promotion of highly subjective notions such as ‘ethnic groups’) and towards analyses founded on more objective, ‘first-order’ social scientific categories. Making use of Elias’s work on established and outsider dynamics, and dealing substantively with education, we flesh out how an alternative approach to in- and exclusion in contemporary Dutch society might be put to use. The goal, in short, is to assist researchers interested in a path leading to more grounded, relational and processual approaches to integration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bowen Paulle•  5  Race and Ethnicity, Essentialism, Migration Studies, IntegrationTHE MIGRANT AS CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR: Joseph Nechvatal interviewTHE MIGRANT AS CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR: Joseph Nechvatal interviewed by Thyrza Nichols Goodeve for the Brooklyn RailSave to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Nechvatal•  8  Art, Art Theory, Contemporary Art, PaintingA New Field in Mind - A History of Interdisciplinarity in the Early Brain SciencesIn recent decades, developments in research technologies and therapeutic advances have generated immense public recognition for neuroscience. However, its origins as a field, often linked to partnerships and projects at various... moreIn recent decades, developments in research technologies and therapeutic advances have generated immense public recognition for neuroscience. However, its origins as a field, often linked to partnerships and projects at various brain-focused research centres in the United States during the 1960s, can be traced much further back in time.In A New Field in Mind Frank Stahnisch documents and analyzes the antecedents of the modern neurosciences as an interdisciplinary field. Although postwar American research centres, such as Francis O. Schmitt's Neuroscience Research Program at MIT, brought the modern field to prominence, Stahnisch reveals the pioneering collaborations in the early brain sciences at centres in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland in the first half of the twentieth century. One of these, Heinrich Obersteiner's institute in Vienna, began its work in the 1880s. Through case studies and collective biographies, Stahnisch investigates the evolving relationships between disciplines - anatomy, neurology, psychiatry, physiology, serology, and neurosurgery - which created new epistemological and social contexts for brain research. He also shows how changing political conditions in Central Europe affected the development of the neurosciences, ultimately leading to the expulsion of many physicians and researchers under the Nazi regime and their migration to North America. An in-depth and innovative study, A New Field in Mind tracks the emergence and evolution of neuroscientific research from the late nineteenth century to the postwar period.Save to LibraryDownloadby Frank Stahnisch•  6  History, Neuroscience, Psychology, Mental HealthFlight from the land? Migration flows of the rural population of the Netherlands, 1850-1940Save to LibraryDownloadby Kees Mandemakers and +2Bastian MönkediekJan Kok•  3  Demography, Historical Demography, Migration StudiesMigration in Europe: A Regional and Analytical Brief (2011)Published in the Inaugural Edition of Lausanne Global Analysis, May 2011, for the Lausanne Global Leaders' Consultation, pp6-12.Save to LibraryDownloadby Darrell Jackson•  2  Migration Studies, Religion and migrationSelf-Interned, 1942: Noguchi in Poston War Relocation Center (Review)Save to LibraryDownloadby María González Pendás•  5  Abstract Art, Nationalism, Architectural History, Migration StudiesI processi di integrazione dei giovani italiani all’estero e dei giovani migranti e delle seconde generazioni in ItaliaAnalisi dei casi di Zurigo, Bruxelles, Barcellona, Milano, Roma e NapoliSave to LibraryDownloadby mattia lento•  6  Sociology, Italian (European History), Italian Studies, Swiss HistoryPlanning the Ideal Refugee Camp? A Critical Interrogation of 7 Recent Planning Innovations in Jordan and GermanyWith the increase of refugee movements since 2014 in Europe and the Near East, the debate of how to plan appropriate shelters and emergency accommodation has gained a new momentum. Established techno-managerial approaches have been... moreWith the increase of refugee movements since 2014 in Europe and the Near East, the debate of how to plan appropriate shelters and emergency accommodation has gained a new momentum. Established techno-managerial approaches have been criticised as inappropriate and the professional community of planners and architects was increasingly drawn into debates for alternative solutions. This article traces the “innovations” that promise better, more effective, and more humane emergency shelters using the examples of the “Tempohomes” in Berlin as well as the Jordanian refugee camps of Zaatari and Azraq. In both cases, planners were employed to address the ambivalent reality of protracted refugee camps and include “lessons” from failures of earlier solutions. While the article acknowledges the genuine attempt of planners to engage with the more complex needs and expectations of refugees, a careful look at the results of the planning for better camps reveals ambivalent outcomes. As camps acquir...Save to LibraryDownloadby Philipp Misselwitz•  14  Refugee Studies, Political Science, Urban Planning, ControlHosting the Dead: Forensics, Ritual and the Memorialization of Migrant Human Remains in ItalyIn this chapter we consider the afterlife of the remains of unidentified migrants who have died while attempting to cross the Mediterranean from Albania and North Africa to Italy. Drawing on insights from long-term, multi-sited field... moreIn this chapter we consider the afterlife of the remains of unidentified migrants who have died while attempting to cross the Mediterranean from Albania and North Africa to Italy. Drawing on insights from long-term, multi-sited field research, we outline paths taken by human remains and consider their multiple agencies and distributed personhood through the relational modalities with which they are symbolically and materially engaged at different scales of significance. The rising number of migrant deaths related to international crossings worldwide, especially in the Mediterranean, has stimulated a large body of scholarship, which generallySave to LibraryDownloadby Vanessa Grotti•  6  Anthropology, Mediterranean, Migration Studies, Anthropology of DeathOn the Shoulders of Grandmothers: Gender, Migration, and Post-Soviet Nation-state BuildingFor 20% discount use code FLR40. For more about the book including endorsements see: https://www.routledge.com/Exile-and-Exodus-Gender-Migration-and-Ukrainian-Nation-State-Building/Solari/p/book/9781138707047Save to LibraryDownloadby Cinzia D Solari•  16  Political Economy, Feminist Theory, Globalization, EthnographyA Deconstruction of the Immigration Rhetoric during the Current Refugee CrisisThe article is aimed at identifying the existing link between the media and the predominant narrative on migration and asylum in the construction of public belief and the elaboration of various governing processes concerning migration and... moreThe article is aimed at identifying the existing link between the mediaand the predominant narrative on migration and asylum in the construction of public belief and the elaboration of various governing processes concerning migration and asylum, by carrying out a comparative multilevel analysis of public discourses launchedby the political leaders in different Member States and by the representatives of EU institutions during the current refugee/migration crisis begun in 2015. We believe that by undertaking a multilevel comparative critical discourse analysis concerning the currentmigration crisis, we could better comprehend the elaborated policy actions and governing processes both at intergovernmental and supranational level.Save to LibraryDownloadby Edina Lilla Meszaros•  8  Discourse Analysis, Refugee Studies, Critical Discourse Analysis, Migration StudiesIllegal Immigrant Mass Arrival: Is New Zealand At RiskThe issues of illegal immigration are not new to the global community; indeed one might argue that is the reason for the existence of countries such as New Zealand, Australia and many others born of the British Empire. Now, with the... moreThe issues of illegal immigration are not new to the global community; indeed one might argue that is the reason for the existence of countries such as New Zealand, Australia and many others born of the British Empire. Now, with the continuing mobility of global crime and terrorism, the issues of illegal immigration and, in particular, mass arrivals have become a topic of great importance. As other nations tighten down on such issues, New Zealand is becoming a potentially viable destination despite its isolation geographically. Through the examination of Australia and Canada, countries both geographically similar and with generally similar outlooks to such issues as immigration, the measured approach made by New Zealand can be bench-marked. Whilst being fortunate to have not had to face a mass arrival already, New Zealand now has suitable legislation in place to aid in deterring and dealing with eventual arrivals having taken the best of each nation’s experiences. The delicate balancing of the needs for maritime security while still meeting international obligations as a ‘good citizen’ of the global community are always open to opinion, although seemingly, New Zealand has hit the right balance and has obtained a good foundation to meet a rising threat.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert McCaw•  4  Strategy (Military Science), Migration, Migration Studies, Strategy (Business)The Atlantic James ConnollyInternationalist Review of Irish Culture. 2 (Spring 2009): 134-152Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter D O'Neill•  6  Irish Studies, American Studies, Atlantic World, Migration StudiesIntegration and Determinants of Psychosocial Health 
– Thematic ReportThis report analyses an important aspect of migrant life: psychosocial health among migrant newcomers. To this respect, it draws data and findings from the RESPOND reports in several work packages. This report employs a methodology of... moreThis report analyses an important aspect of migrant life: psychosocial health among migrant newcomers. To this respect, it draws data and findings from the RESPOND reports in several work packages. This report employs a methodology of transdisciplinary research design, by establishing a strong collaboration beyond discipline-specific approaches, exchanging information and sharing sources. While the general analysis in RESPOND is structured along macro (policy), meso (implementation) and micro (individual) levels, this report focuses primarily on newcomers' experiences at the micro level.Save to LibraryDownloadby RESPOND HORIZON 2020•  2  Migration Studies, Immigrant integration書評 Review of Jerry H. Bentley, Renate Bridenthal, Kären Wigen, eds., Seascapes: Maritime Histories, Littoral Cultures, and Transoceanic Exchanges (Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2007), Journal of History and Anthropology 8.1 (2010): 183-188Review of Jerry H. Bentley, Renate Bridenthal, Kären Wigen, eds., Seascapes: Maritime Histories, Littoral Cultures, and Transoceanic Exchanges (Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2007). Journal of History and Anthropology 8.1 (2010):... moreReview of Jerry H. Bentley, Renate Bridenthal, Kären Wigen, eds., Seascapes: Maritime Histories, Littoral Cultures, and Transoceanic Exchanges (Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2007). Journal of History and Anthropology 8.1 (2010): 183-188.http://schina.ust.hk/publications/Jour-E.htmlSave to LibraryDownloadby Boyi Chen (陈博翼)•  4  Maritime History, Global History, Migration Studies, Maritime and Oceanic HistoryIstraživanja migrantskih organizacija: definicije, koncepti, perspektive i pristranosti (Research on Migrant Organisations: Definitions, Concepts, Perspectives and Biases)Istraživanja postmigracijskih iskustava migranata, uključujući osnivanje i djelovanje unutar migrantskih organizacija predstavlja relativno staro i etablirano područje istraživanja unutar migracijskih studija. Unatoč tome zamjetan je... moreIstraživanja postmigracijskih iskustava migranata, uključujući osnivanje i djelovanje unutar migrantskih organizacija predstavlja relativno staro i etablirano područje istraživanja unutar migracijskih studija. Unatoč tome zamjetan je rastući suvremeni interes za proučavanje migrantskih organizacija među društvenim znanstvenicima. Stoga je cilj rada izdvojiti glavne suvremene pristupe istraživanju migrantskih organizacija, uključujući definicije, koncepte i perspektive, te upozoriti na zanemarene teme i izvore pristranosti u istraživanjima. U prvome dijelu rada razmatraju se definicije migrantskih organizacija, uključujući i terminološke dvojbe oko sastavnih dijelova definicije tj. pojmova „organizacija“ i „migranti“. Izdvojeni su i teorijski i empirijski tipovi migrantskih organizacija koji nastaju kao pokušaj reduciranja kompleksnosti empirijskih manifestacija migrantskog organiziranja te služe kao heuristička sredstva umjesto preuskog ili preopćenitog definiranja migrantskih organizacija. Tipiziranje migrantskih organizacija varira od jednostavnih dihotomnih kategorizacija do tipologija s više kategorija prema nekoliko kriterija, od ciljeva do aktivnosti i orijentacije organizacija. Autorica razmatra i metodološke pristupe istraživanju i metode prikupljanja podataka o migrantskim organizacijama, izdvajajući manje rasprostranjene i specifičnije metodološke pristupe. Sljedeći dio rada predstavlja glavne pristupe istraživanju migrantskih organizacija, uključujući i povezane koncepte – socijalni kapital i strukturu političkog oportuniteta – koji su u različitim varijantama rasprostranjeni u istraživanjima migrantskih organizacija iz nacionalne perspektive. Autorica izdvaja transnacionalnu perspektivu istraživanja, naspram prethodno razmatranim pristupima koji djelovanje migrantskih organizacija promatraju u „kontejneru nacija-država primitka“ zanemarujući značajan dio utjecaja na njihovo formiranje i djelovanje koji dolazi izvan zemlje primitka. Kao zastupljena područja istraživanja migrantskih organizacija u transnacionalnoj perspektivi, izdvajaju se migrantski politički transnacionalizam i istraživanja migrantskih zavičajnih organizacija, dok su studije koje za glavnu temu imaju istraživanje veza među migrantskim organizacijama u transnacionalnim socijalnim prostorima značajno manje zastupljene. Posljednji dio rada osvrt je na teme koje su rijetko u fokusu istraživanja migrantskih organizacija i na pristranosti u istraživanjima, uključujući esencijalizam i metodološki nacionalizam. Zamjetno je zanemarivanje rodne perspektive, organizacija unutarnjih migranata i neformalnih oblika organiziranja te prezastupljenost istraživanja migrantskih organizacija koja se fokusiraju na političke aktivnosti i sudjelovanje u političkim procesima.Save to Libraryby Simona Kuti•  4  Diasporas, Migration Studies, Transnational migration, Migrant OrganizationsFrom vulnerable victims to insurgent caravaneros. The genesis and consolidation of a new form of migrant self-defence in AmericaThis chapter presents a preliminary discursive analysis of the contemporary “immigration state of emergency” (Oliviero, 2013) that was posited by the Trump administration in response to the emergence of the 2018 migrant caravans. The... moreThis chapter presents a preliminary discursive analysis of the contemporary “immigration state of emergency” (Oliviero, 2013) that was posited by the Trump administration in response to the emergence of the 2018 migrant caravans. The Trump administration's use of a rhetoric of crisis, threat and even humanitarian protection to justify punitive immigration policies follows a long history in the United States of framing migration as a source of crisis and emergency, producing migrants as subjects of state power and control. In this chapter, we present an alternative genealogy of the caravanization of migration, arguing that the migrant caravans, organized for the protection and preservation of migrants’ lives, represent a modality of resistance and self-defence. This emerging Mesoamerican social movement (Balaguera and Gonzales, 2018) of the displaced has challenged the grammar with which migration is understood, explained and managed and has generated a shift in the networks of solidarity and radical hospitality in Mexico.Save to LibraryDownloadby Amarela Varela-Huerta and +1Lisa McLean•  4  Central America and Mexico, Migration Studies, Refugges Studies, caravanas de migrantesTransnational Entrepreneurs: An Alternative Form of Immigrant AdaptationThe recent literature on immigrant transnationalism points to an alternative form of economic adaptation of foreign minorities in advanced societies that is based on the mobilization of their cross-country social networks. Case studies... moreThe recent literature on immigrant transnationalism points to an alternative form of economic adaptation of foreign minorities in advanced societies that is based on the mobilization of their cross-country social networks. Case studies have noted the phenomenon's potential significance for immigrant integration into receiving countries and for the economic development in countries of origin. Despite their suggestive character, these studies consistently sample on the dependent variable (transnationalism), failing to establish the empirical existence of these activities beyond a few descriptive examples and their possible determinants. These issues are addressed using a survey designed explicitly for this purpose and conducted among selected Latin immigrant groups in the United States. Although immigrant transnationalism has received little attention in the mainstream sociological literature so far, it has the potential of altering the character of the new ethnic communities spawned by contemporary immigration. The empirical existence of transnationalism is examined on the basis of discriminant functions of migrant characteristics, and the relative probabilities of engaging in these kinds of activities is established based on hypotheses drawn from the literature. Implications for the sociology of immigration as well as for broader sociological theories of the economy are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby William Haller•  3  Transnationalism, Migration Studies, Transnational migrationArticulo Racismo y ley en los exodos masivos CastroEste trabajo analiza las recientes caravanas de migrantes centroamericanos que salen de los países del triángulo norte de Centroamérica con el objetivo de solicitar protección internacional por parte de Estados Unidos. Enfocándose... moreEste trabajo analiza las recientes caravanas de migrantes centroamericanos que salen de los países del triángulo norte de Centroamérica con el objetivo de solicitar protección internacional por parte de Estados Unidos. Enfocándose en las muestras de racismo y xenofobia que se generan en su paso por ciudades de México, el artículo se detiene a observar el caso de la fronteriza ciudad de Tijuana donde una combinación de factores de violencia social y violencia legal crea las condiciones propicias para el surgimiento de la hostilidad hacia los migrantes.El trabajo recorre una serie de paradojas y contradicciones que, a diferentes niveles y escalas, modelan los problemas principales que deben enfrentar los migrantes y sus organizaciones. Al mostrar la forma en que los migrantes se preparan y organizan para el viaje, se destaca cómo esos procesos de politización de la acción migrante generan efectos impensados, donde las muestras locales de hostilidad parecieran dibujar una situación que tiene muy pocas posibilidades de ser resuelta.Palabras claves: caravanas, racismo, ley, ilegalización migrante y politización de los migrantes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yerko Castro Neira•  3  Migration Studies, Antropología Social, Antropología y Sociología JurídicaZwangsheirat: Generationenkonflikte und Geschlechtsspezifische HandlungsspielräumeAusgehend von einer multidimensionalen Analyseperspektive werden im diesem Artikel 5 Argumente praesentiert, mit deren Hilfe die Diskussionsgrundlage erweitert werden soll. Erstens: Diskussionen um Zwangsheirat, die sich bloB auf die... moreAusgehend von einer multidimensionalen Analyseperspektive werden im diesem Artikel 5 Argumente praesentiert, mit deren Hilfe die Diskussionsgrundlage erweitert werden soll. Erstens: Diskussionen um Zwangsheirat, die sich bloB auf die EheschlieBung konzentrieren, greifen zu kurz. Zwangsheirat beinhaltet zwei Komponenten, die unterschiedliche Problem- und Zwangslagen hervorbringen: die Zwangsverheiratung und die Zwangsehe. Zweitens: Zwangsverheiratung ist vor allem ein Konflikt zwischen den Generationen (d.h. meist eine Konfliktsituation der Jugend mit der eigenen Eltemgeneration) und eine Problematik von hauslicher Gewalt. Drittens: Interpretationen, die Zwangsheirat mit der ('rueckstaendigen') Kultur gewisser lmmigrantengruppen zu erklaren versuchen, versperren den Blick auf die multidimensionalen Faktoren, die hinter diesen Zwangssituationen stecken, naemlich unterschiedliche Vorstellungen der ersten und der zweiten Einwanderergeneration von Partnerwahl, Heirat und Ehe, transnationale V erpflichtungen, Situationen sozialer Marginalisierung sowie restriktive Einwanderungspolitiken und Aufenthaltsregelungen. Viertens: Zwangsheirat betrifft nicht nur Frauen, sondem auch Manner. Aufgrund von ge- schlechtsspezifischen Vorstellungen ueber Maennlichkeit und Weiblichkeit sind aber die Handlungsspielraume von Frauen eingeschraenkter als diejenigen von Mannem. Als Folge davon sind Frauen viel staerker von hauslicher Gewalt betroffen. Letztlich koennen betroffene Personen nicht ausschlieBlich als Opfer von Zwangssituationen betrachtet werden. Sie entwickeln eine Reihe von Strategien, urn die familiaren Konflikte zu loesen. Die Ressourcenlage der betroffenen Personen variiert allerdings in Abhaengigkeit von Geschlecht, sozialer Stellung in der Familie, Bildung, Herkunft und oko- nomischer Situation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yvonne  Riaño•  5  Gender Studies, Migration Studies, Marriage Migration, Marriage and FamilyThe Changing Perception of the Sea Peoples Phenomenon: Invasion, Migration or Cultural Diffusion?More than 30 years ago the American anthropologist-archaeologist William Adams wrote a seminal article on the interpretation of material culture change in ancient Nubia entitled ‘Invasion, Diffusion, Evolution?’ (1968). In it the author... moreMore than 30 years ago the American anthropologist-archaeologist William Adams wrote a seminal article on the interpretation of material culture change in ancient Nubia entitled ‘Invasion, Diffusion, Evolution?’ (1968). In it the author laid bare the inadequacies of invoking population movement to explain changes that could just as easily be attributed to cultural diffusion or evolution. A decade later Adams co-authored another article that took an even dimmer view of ‘migrationism’ (Adams, van Gerven and Levy 1978). In this latter article the authors offered up the Philistines as an example of a ‘historical migration’ – that is, a migration known from texts or through philology, but largely indiscernible through excavation. Although many of their points are well taken, the case of the Philistines should have been exempted from this sweeping criticism of the migrationist tendencies of culture-history. In addition to the textual evidence that attests to the movement and settlement of Philistines and other Sea Peoples along the Levantine coast, there is a burgeoning corpus of supportive archaeological data. Indeed, the Philistines, based on extensive excavations at three of their capital cities (i.e., Ashdod, Ashkelon and Tel Miqne-Ekron),  provide a superb case study of migration from an archaeological perspective.The main purpose of this paper, however, is not to address Adams’ passing dismissal of the Philistine migration as an archaeologically observable event; but, rather, to counter the more focused and sustained revisionist thinking of the past decade regarding the Sea Peoples phenomenon. First, though, it is necessary to present a brief history of how the Philistines and their fellow Sea Peoples have been regarded over the past 150 years.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tristan Barako•  12  Near Eastern Archaeology, Aegean Bronze Age (Bronze Age Archaeology), Migration Studies, Late Bronze Age archaeologyMoroccan Jewish Emigration to Latin America: The State of Research and New DirectionsAlmost a century before the “mass emigration” of Jews from Morocco during the mid-twentieth century, to Israel and to destinations in the West, Moroccan Jews had been engaging in long-distance emigrations, typically from the... moreAlmost a century before the “mass emigration” of Jews from Morocco during the mid-twentieth century, to Israel and to destinations in the West, Moroccan Jews had been engaging in long-distance emigrations, typically from the Spanish-dominated northern part of that country to Latin America. This article surveys the state of research pertaining to this long-lasting migratory episode. I point at the conspicuous lack of interest among MENA-and Israel-Studies scholars in the topic, and conclude by suggesting that this migration episode has potential contribution to the aforementioned areas of study.ملخص: الهجرة اليهودية المغربية إلى أمريکا اللاتينية: أوضاع البحوثوالاتجاهات الجديدةقرابة قرن قبل ”الهجرة الجماعية“ لليهود من المغرب خلال منتصف القرنالعشرين إلى إسرائيل وجهات أخرى في الغرب، انخرط اليهود المغاربة في الهجرةلمسافات طويلة، ومعظمهم من الجزء الشمالي من البلاد الذي كان يهيمن عليهالإسبان إلى أمريکا اللاتينية. وترک هؤلاء الرواد الأوائل بصمات على الثقافاتاليهودية المغربية الدائمة في هذا المحتوى، حتى في الأيام الحالية. وتفحص هذهالمقالة وضع البحوث المتعلقة بهذه الهجرة طويلة الأمد. وهنا أود الإشارة إلىالاهتمام الکبير بين الباحثين الناطقين بالإسبانية والبرتغالية من حقول الدراساتالأمريکية والايبيرية اللاتينية، من جهة؛ وإلى غياب واضح لهذه الدراسات فيالعالم العربي وإسرائيل من جهة أخرى، وهذا فضلا عن الباحثين الذين ير زون کعلى الهجرة المغربية المعاصرة. ما أن تاريخ الهجرة المحلي لديه إسهامات محتملة کفي مجالات الاهتمام المذ ورة أعلاه، وأنه يمکن أن تعمل على تفکيک الروايات کالشائعة عن رحيل اليهود الموجه سياسيا من الأراضي المسلمة العربية.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aviad Moreno•  7  Latin American Studies, Middle East Studies, Israel/Palestine, Migration StudiesThe Silent Exception: Hunger Striking and Lip-SewingBorder zones and detention centers are often characterized as spaces that concretize a permanent " state of exception " where resistance is deemed unlikely. This article explores hunger striking and lip-sewing practices of migrants and... moreBorder zones and detention centers are often characterized as spaces that concretize a permanent " state of exception " where resistance is deemed unlikely. This article explores hunger striking and lip-sewing practices of migrants and refugees as a largely neglected form of protest that takes a silent exception from the exception. Focusing on their gesture of a double withdrawal – from nutrition and from speech –, I make the case for an expanded conception of agency that is non-instrumental and expressive. Pursuing an alethurgic analysis, I situate the violent and embodied silence of these protests in Foucault's problematic of parrhesiastic practice. I examine these practices as processes of subjectivation that unmake and remake the self, call into being parrhesiastic counter-publics, and courageously critique the present.Save to LibraryDownloadby Banu  Bargu•  5  Refugee Studies, Michel Foucault, Migration Studies, Hunger strikesSocial identifications as protective factors against acculturation stress and dicrimination amog migrant sexual minorities .pdfIndividuals with multiple devalued subordinate group identities can face different challenges related to those identities simultaneously, which may put them in risk psychologically. Despite these challenges, many disadvantaged minorities... moreIndividuals with multiple devalued subordinate group identities can face different challenges related to those identities simultaneously, which may put them in risk psychologically. Despite these challenges, many disadvantaged minorities feel and function well, hence they are resilient. Research explaining the underlying mechanisms of resilience in the context of multiple subordinate identities are limited, especially from collectivist cultural contexts. The aim of this thesis was to investigate how social identifications play a role in the well-being of migrant sexual minorities. Arguments from the theories of social identity, acculturation and resilience were used to formulate hypotheses. This research tests the main hypothesis that while discrimination and acculturative stress are risk factors for the well-being of migrant sexual minorities, identifications with relevant social groups moderate this link. An alternative hypothesis was also tested in that social identifications mediate the link between risk factors and well-being. Self-reported questionnaires were administered to 193 sexual minorities who have migrated to metropolitan cities of Turkey from other towns of the country. The questionnaires which were used included demographic information questions, Perceived Discrimination Scale (Ruggiero & Taylor, 1995), Brief Psychological Adaptation Scale (Demes & Geeraert, 2014), Multicomponent Ingroup Identification Scale (Leach et al., 2008), Flourishing Scale (Diener et al., 2010) and Satisfaction with Life Scale (Diener, Emmons, Larsen, & Griffin, 1985). Moreover, to investigate culture-specific resilience resources Adult Resilience Measure was used (Resilience Research Centre, 2013). Moderated regression analyses revealed that interactions of risk and protective factors had no effect on well-being. The alternative mediation hypotheses revealed that protective factors were significant mediators for the relationship between risk factors of perceived group discrimination and acculturative stress and well-being. The results suggested that multiple group identities may not function as a buffering factor (moderator) but it facilitates dealing with the risks associated with being a sexual minority and migrant to increase well-being (mediator). This research contributes to (1) Resilience Framework on the basis of a strength-based perspective on disadvantaged groups, (2) Social Identity Theory through demonstrating mutual effects between social identities, and (3) applied fields of psychological consultation and social policy making in consideration of these findings.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kıvanç Konukoğlu•  6  Resilience, LGBT Issues, Discrimination, Sexual Minority ResearchFrom Navigating the Seas to Navigating the Skies: Unloading Tongan Knowledge through the Undercurrents of Airline Employment in the Ano MāsimaOne of the main reasons for Tongans immigrating to the United States (U.S.) was to enter into tertiary schooling and further one’s knowledge within colleges and universities (Hafoka, ‘Ulu‘ave & Hafoka, 2014). As this has been an... moreOne of the main reasons for Tongans immigrating to the United States (U.S.) was to enter into tertiary schooling and further one’s knowledge within colleges and universities (Hafoka, ‘Ulu‘ave & Hafoka, 2014). As this has been an aspiration for many Tongan people entering the U.S. for themselves and/or their posterity, another location of knowledge attainment and financial sustainability has become a prevalent force within the Tongan U.S. diasporic community, the airlines. The study takes place in the Ano Māsima, or known as the Salt Lake Valley, due to the influx of Tongans that reside in Utah compared to other parts of the U.S. (US Census Bureau, 2015; EPIC, 2014; Davidson, 2011). The purpose of this study is to explore the phenomenon of how Tongans in the U.S. utilize the airline industry to maintain connections to the sources of Tongan knowledge, which is people (our relationships), and place (where they reside, and our homelands). Also, to better understand reasoning of the influx of Tongans within the airline industry. Through the lenes of Tā-Vā and Critical Race Theories, the study revealed knowledge of air travel to fly around the world to learn and connect, a sense of community and family nurtured within the workplace, and a form of knowledge production created through the undercurrents. The findings reveal content and resources to support marginalized communities (such as Tongans) through seeking to better engage with these groups beyond schooling, and recognizing recommendations regarding the study (such as data disaggregation (mixed race), labor and school experiences, etc.).Save to LibraryDownloadby ʻInoke Hafoka•  5  Education, Pacific Island Studies, Migration Studies, Diaspora StudiesMitochondrial genomes from Bronze Age Poland reveal genetic continuity from the Late Neolithic and additional genetic affinities with the steppe populationsObjective: In this work we aim to investigate the origins and genetic affinities of Bronze Age populations (2,400–1,100 BC) from the region of southern Poland and to trace maternal kinship patterns present in the burials of those... moreObjective: In this work we aim to investigate the origins and genetic affinities of Bronze Age populations (2,400–1,100 BC) from the region of southern Poland and to trace maternal kinship patterns present in the burials of those populations by the use of complete mitochondrial genomes. Materials and methods: We performed ancient DNA analyses for Bronze Age individuals from present-day Poland associated with the Strzyżow culture, the Mierzanowice culture, and the Trzciniec Cultural circle. To obtain complete mitochondrial genomes, we sequenced genomic libraries using Illumina platform. Additionally, hybridization capture was used to enrich some of the samples for mitochondrial DNA. AMS 14C-dating was conducted for 51 individuals to verify chronological and cultural attribution of the analyzed samples. Results: Complete ancient mitochondrial genomes were generated for 80 of the Bronze Age individuals from present-day Poland. The results of the population genetic analyses indicate close maternal genetic affinity between Mierzanowice, Trzciniec, and Corded Ware culture-associated populations. This is in contrast to the genetically more distant Strzyżów people that displayed closer maternal genetic relation to steppe populations associated with the preceding Yamnaya culture and Catacomb culture, and with later Scythians. Potential maternal kinship relations were identified in burials of Mierzanowice and Trzciniec populations analyzed in this study. Discussion: Results revealed genetic continuity from the Late Neolithic Corded Ware groups to Bronze Age Mierzanowice and Trzciniec-associated populations, and possible additional genetic contribution from the steppe to the formation of the Strzyżów associated group at the end of 3rd millennium BC. Mitochondrial patterns indicated several pairs of potentially maternally related individuals mostly in Trzciniec-associated group.Save to Libraryby Anita  Szczepanek•  6  Evolutionary Biology, Archaeology, Anthropology, Migration StudiesNarratives and counter-narratives of Europe. Constructing and contesting EuropeanityThis paper explores with the way in which individuals and groups supporting migrants in the European Union relate to and contest dominant narratives of European belonging and identity. First, I examine the emergence of an increasingly... moreThis paper explores with the way in which individuals and groups supporting migrants in the European Union relate to and contest dominant narratives of European belonging and identity. First, I examine the emergence of an increasingly exclusionary discourse on European belonging produced by politicians of the EU and its member states. I argue that, faced with the difficulty – identified by Jacques Delors decades ago – that 'people do not fall in love with a single market', an ideological enterprise aiming at putting forward a notion of “Europeanity” was initiated by ideologues of the European Union. Discourses of Europeanity are underpinned by the idea of a coherent socio-cultural European self, which becomes the basis for legitimising the process of European integration. This process of has thus relied on attempts at identifying “Europeans” and at setting them apart from non-Europeans. It has led to the identification of new Others and , in this sense, I suggest that dominant discourses of European belonging share features with national identity building processes.In the second part of this paper, I propose to look at the process of harmonisation of immigration and border controls in the EU as the expression of this exclusionary agenda and as the manifestation of a dominant notion of European belonging. I argue that the construction of 'Fortress Europe', which aims at securing the integrity of the territory of the EU, has been central to the continuation of European integration since the mid-1980s.This process has however been contested. In the last part of this paper, I propose to examine the emergence of a transnational migrant solidarity movement in the EU and to explore whether this movement-in-formation has produced alternative visions and understandings of Europe. Drawing on findings gathered through a prolonged period of ethnographic fieldwork with pro-migrant groups in three EU member states (France, the UK and Italy), I investigate the narratives formulated by people acting in solidarity with non-Europeans in the EU. I conclude that this emergent movement has been increasingly articulated at the European level yet that it has not been integrated around alternative visions of Europe and European identity. I argue that this is due to tensions and contradictions generated by the European project. I explain this through a critical reflection about the process of European construction and the production of ideas about Europe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Celine Cantat•  3  European Union, Migration Studies, Politics of SolidarityTurkish Delight--German Fright: Unsettling Oppositions in Transnational CinemaCurrent discourses about migrants and diaspora communities in Europe are often informed by a social worker's perspective and haunted by residual notions of supposedly pure and authentic cultures of origin. Between national entrenchment... moreCurrent discourses about migrants and diaspora communities in Europe are often informed by a social worker's perspective and haunted by residual notions of supposedly pure and authentic cultures of origin. Between national entrenchment and transnational globalization, ethnic minorities are "imagined" as outsiders on a subnational level. The consequent othering of so-called "third" or "substate" cinemas by cultural producers, critics and policymakers is highly problematic. I therefore propose to reframe the discussion about such "minor" cinemas within a broader consideration of traveling cultures and global flows, of mobility between margin and center, between independent and mainstream productions, as well as crossovers between different genres and their reception across national boundaries.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deniz Gokturk•  10  Globalization, Film Studies, Transnationalism, Race and EthnicityReview of Tara Zahra, The Great Departure: Mass Migration from Eastern Europe and the Making of the Free World (W.W. Norton & Co.: 2016).Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah Cramsey•  3  Habsburg Studies, Migration Studies, Central and Eastern EuropeEU-Turkey Migration Cooperation: From Saving the Day to Sustainable Mixed Migration GovernanceThe current migration cooperation framework between the EU and Turkey was devised mainly as a response to the large-scale movements of 2015–2016, and the policy crisis they provoked inside the EU. Judged not exclusively but primarily by... moreThe current migration cooperation framework between the EU and Turkey was devised mainly as a response to the large-scale movements of 2015–2016, and the policy crisis they provoked inside the EU. Judged not exclusively but primarily by its performance in reducing irregular crossings from Turkey to Greece, and thus by its contribution to momentarily alleviating the policy crisis in the EU, cooperation has been regarded as highly effective. Yet, the type of mixed migration that is of concern to both sides is driven by structural factors, which are likely to occasionally escalate into humanitarian crises, calling for sustainable policy and cooperation approaches that are also emergency-proof. In line with this perspective, this paper examines how the current migration cooperation between the EU and Turkey fares in terms of producing durable responses to mixed migration in the Eastern Mediterranean context, and identifies the main challenges ahead to render both the cooperation and the policy solutions it produces more sustainable.Save to LibraryDownloadby Istituto Affari Internazionali  (IAI)•  5  Refugee Studies, European Union, Turkey, Migration StudiesTabula rasa or refugia? Using genetic data to assess the peopling of ArabiaThis paper provides a broad overview of the current state of archaeogenetic research in Arabia. We summarise recent studies of mitochondrial DNA and lactase persistence allele -13915*G in order to reconstruct the population histories of... moreThis paper provides a broad overview of the current state of archaeogenetic research in Arabia. We summarise recent studies of mitochondrial DNA and lactase persistence allele -13915*G in order to reconstruct the population histories of modern Arabs. These data, in turn, enable us to assess different scenarios for the peopling of the Pen- insula over the course of the Late Pleistocene and Early Holocene. The evidence sup- ports the posited existence of Arabian refugia, although it is inconclusive which (e.g. Persian Gulf basin, Yemeni highlands and/or Red Sea basin) was/were responsible for housing ancestral populations during the Last Glacial Maximum. Synthesising genetic and archaeological data sets, we conclude that a substantial portion of the present South Arabian gene pool derives from a deeply rooted population that underwent sig- nificant internal growth within Arabia some 12,000 years ago. At the same time, we interpret the disappearance of Nejd Leptolithic archaeological sites in southern Arabia around 8000 years ago to represent the termination of a significant component of the Pleistocene gene pool.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeff Rose•  14  Genetics, Population Genetics, Neolithic Archaeology, ArchaeogeneticsChristliche und islamische Perspektiven auf Flucht und Migration - ResümeeDer Band resümiert Diskussionen der Jahrestagung des Theologischen Forums Christentum – Islam, die mitgeprägt waren durch die Aktualität des Themas angesichts der großen Zahl Geflüchteter, die seit 2015 auch Europa und Deutschland... moreDer Band resümiert Diskussionen der Jahrestagung des Theologischen Forums Christentum – Islam, die mitgeprägt waren durch die Aktualität des Themas angesichts der großen Zahl Geflüchteter, die seit 2015 auch Europa und Deutschland erreicht haben und deren Thematik drängend bleibt. Der Umgang mit Flucht, Vertreibungen und Migrationen hat ebenso die damit zusammenhängenden Fragen (Un-)Gerechtigkeit die Religionen, ihre Organisationen und Theologien tief geprägt. Sie stellen auch gemeinsame Zukunftsthemen dar. Es handelt sich nicht um bloße Anwendungsgebiete theologischer Wissenschaft, sondern um kritische Orte der Kontrasterfahrung und der Infragestellung, die im besten Fall selbst »theologiegenerierend« sind, jedenfalls aber Bewährungsorte der Relevanz und Plausibilität des Religiösen darstellen.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian Ströbele and +1Mohammad Gharaibeh•  11  Migration, Interfaith Discourse, Migration Studies, Muslim-Christian RelationsEU Migration Agencies: The Operation and Cooperation of FRONTEX, EASO and EUROPOLThis insightful book analyzes the evolution of the operational tasks and cooperation of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (FRONTEX), the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement... moreThis insightful book analyzes the evolution of the operational tasks and cooperation of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (FRONTEX), the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (EUROPOL). Exploring the recent expansion of the legal mandates of these decentralized EU agencies and the activities they undertake in practice, David Fernández-Rojo offers a critical assessment of the EU migration agencies. The book identifies two key trends in the administration of the European Area of Freedom, Security and Justice. Fernández-Rojo discusses how on one hand the new legal frameworks of FRONTEX, EASO and EUROPOL stress that their operational roles are limited to providing national authorities with technical assistance, while on the other hand these agencies are increasingly involved in guaranteeing the enforcement of EU migration, asylum and border management measures. The book expertly illustrates how FRONTEX, EASO and EUROPOL establish an effective and uniform national implementation of laws and policies, with a focus on their multilateral cooperation in the hotspots established in the aftermath of the refugee crisis.Examining the de jure and de facto operational powers and cooperation of EU migration agencies, this book will be critical reading for academics and students of law, international relations and political science. Its assessment of the effectiveness of policy implementation will also be beneficial for legal practitioners, policy makers and NGOs.Save to LibraryDownloadby David  Fernandez-Rojo•  18  European Law, Human Rights Law, Asylum Law, Irregular MigrationCentri di accoglienza: varietà tipologica e dibattito collegatoI Centri di accoglienza sono le strutture nelle quali viene offerta una prima ospitalità e assistenza ai migranti. In Italia, negli anni e soprattutto in occasioni di «emergenze umanitarie», sono stati aperti tipi differenti di Centri.... moreI Centri di accoglienza sono le strutture nelle quali viene offerta una prima ospitalità e assistenza ai migranti. In Italia, negli anni e soprattutto in occasioni di «emergenze umanitarie», sono stati aperti tipi differenti di Centri. L'articolo, oltre a descrivere le differenti caratteristiche delle strutture oggi operative, presenta parte del dibattito in corso tra giuristi, scienziati politico-sociali ed esperti di servizi sociali, evidenziando i principali discorsi retorici sul tema e gli elementi di etichettamento degli stranieri inseriti in un progetto di assistenza.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marco Accorinti•  6  Social Policy, Migration, Migration Studies, Sociology of MigrationAn Assessment of the Attitudes and Practices of Equality and Diversity in the UK Music IndustryThe paper argues that the UK music industry is an unequal sector to work in, despite the outward facing gloss of multiculturalism the Top 40 Chart presents. In light of this environment the paper’s main research aim was to uncover the... moreThe paper argues that the UK music industry is an unequal sector to work in, despite the outward facing gloss of multiculturalism the Top 40 Chart presents. In light of this environment the paper’s main research aim was to uncover the attitudes and practices of employers within the music industry towards equality and diversity. The methodology was completed by two methods; a comprehensive literature review (to assess both sectoral and organisational explanations for existing discrimination in the music industry) and the collection of empirical data through a fixed method strategy. Specifically the objectives of the research were to: 1.Research the main theories and concepts of equality and diversity in the workplace 2.Critically evaluate existing diversity diagnostic tools and create a fit for purpose equality and diversity questionnaire for the music industry3.Through analysis of the resulting data, assess the current behaviours and attitudes towards diversity in the music industry and the corresponding outcomes The findings were that organisations with an equality and diversity policy were often less diverse than those without, at all levels. In other words simply having a policy is no guarantee of a diverse workforce. However in organisations where the diversity climate is ‘strongly supportive’ of equality and diversity issues the effect is different; a supportive culture halves the numbers of organisations who have no women working in them at all. It increases the overall female workforce of an organisation by 3%, the senior management workforce by over 20% and at director level by 17%. Having organisational support reduces the number of organisations who have no BAME staff by 5%. It increases the percentage of BAME staff overall by 4.5% and increases senior management BAME staff by 12%. This research shows that getting support from the leaders of the music industry has the potential to change the entire sector. The research limitation was the sample size was low; only 152 fully completed questionnaires were completed out of 297 initiated from 2,002 emails sent out. An analysis of the high drop out rate is given demonstrating organisations with an already positive attitude towards equality and diversity were much more motivated to complete the survey. With an α level of 95% from a population size of 7,903, the obtained sample range gives a level of precision of ±8%. This is low but still an acceptable precision level, however further research is recommended. Diversity research in the UK reveals a gap in any of the creative sectors and in particular the music industry. CC Skills have published the over-arching sector statistics since 2006 but there have been no in-depth studies going beyond that. This paper reveals details of employers’ attitudes in a sector which has never been analysed before. This work therefore contributes to the body of knowledge that is just developing about the creative industries. Key Words: diversity climate, diagnostic tools, creative industries, music industry, attitudinal analysisSave to LibraryDownloadby Vick Bain•  11  Diversity, Equality, Diversity Management, Migration Studies'Boat Refugees' & Migrants at Sea: A Comprehensive Approach. Integrating Maritime Security with Human Rights (Brill, 2016) [with Papastavridis]This book aims to address ‘boat migration’ with a holistic approach. The different chapters consider the multiple facets of the phenomenon and the complex challenges they pose, bringing together knowledge from several disciplines and... moreThis book aims to address ‘boat migration’ with a holistic approach. The different chapters consider the multiple facets of the phenomenon and the complex challenges they pose, bringing together knowledge from several disciplines and regions of the world within a single collection. Together, they provide an integrated picture of transnational movements of people by sea with a view to making a decisive contribution to our understanding of current trends and future perspectives and their treatment from legal-doctrinal, legal-theoretical, and non-legal angles. The final goal is to unpack the tension that exists between security concerns and individual rights in this context and identify tools and strategies to adequately manage its various components, garnering an inter-regional / multi-disciplinary dialogue, including input from international law, law of the sea, maritime security, migration and refugee studies, and human rights, to address the position of ‘migrants at sea’ thoroughly.Save to LibraryDownloadby Violeta Moreno-Lax•  16  European Law, Human Rights Law, International Law, Human RightsEating NAFTA Trade, Food Policies, and the Destruction of MexicoMexican cuisine has emerged as a paradox of globalization. Food enthusiasts throughout the world celebrate the humble taco at the same time that Mexicans are eating fewer tortillas and more processed food. Today Mexico is experiencing an... moreMexican cuisine has emerged as a paradox of globalization. Food enthusiasts throughout the world celebrate the humble taco at the same time that Mexicans are eating fewer tortillas and more processed food. Today Mexico is experiencing an epidemic of diet-related chronic illness. The precipitous rise of obesity and diabetes—attributed to changes in the Mexican diet—has resulted in a public health emergency.In her gripping new book, Alyshia Gálvez exposes how changes in policy following NAFTA have fundamentally altered one of the most basic elements of life in Mexico—sustenance. Mexicans are faced with a food system that favors food security over subsistence agriculture, development over sustainability, market participation over social welfare, and ideologies of self-care over public health. Trade agreements negotiated to improve lives have resulted in unintended consequences for people’s everyday lives.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alyshia Gálvez•  12  Anthropology, Medical Anthropology, Social and Cultural Anthropology, DiabetesIntroduction: Memories on the Move—Experiencing Mobility, Rethinking the PastBringing together vivid ethnographic material, this book opens up a timely conversation between memory and mobility/migration studies. It goes beyond the idea of the nation state as the primary unit of analysis to explore how people on... moreBringing together vivid ethnographic material, this book opens up a timely conversation between memory and mobility/migration studies. It goes beyond the idea of the nation state as the primary unit of analysis to explore how people on the move use different forms and media of remembering to make sense of their lives and act as political subjects. Investigating when and by what means people on the move remember and communicate memories in the context of various forms of (im)mobility, the authors examine photographs, films, the reinhabiting of pre-exilic homes, pseudo-historical performances, transgenerational mnemonic gatherings and transnational political activism. This edited collection will appeal to scholars of anthropology, sociology,political science, human geography, history and oral history.Save to LibraryDownloadby Monika Palmberger and +1Jelena Tosic•  4  Social and Cultural Anthropology, Memory Studies, Social and Collective Memory, Migration StudiesThe Haiti Paradigm, Twenty Years AfterSave to LibraryDownloadby Itamar Mann•  6  International Law, Human Rights, Transnationalism, Refugee StudiesPredstava Emigranta Nine Ramšak Marković kao velika studija čoveka u izgnanstvuČlanak u osnovi polazi od prikaza predstave Emigranta Slovenskog narodnog gledališča Drame u režiji Nine Ramšak Marković kao moguće pozorišne adaptacije istoimene drame poljskog pisca Sławomira Mrożeka. Međutim, kompleksnošću svoje... moreČlanak u osnovi polazi od prikaza predstave Emigranta Slovenskog narodnog gledališča Drame u režiji Nine Ramšak Marković kao moguće pozorišne adaptacije istoimene drame poljskog pisca Sławomira Mrożeka. Međutim, kompleksnošću svoje tematike i specifičnim dijaloškim strukturama, ona otvara mnoštvo novih pitanja, te prelazi istorijske granice i kao svojevrsna paradigma o emigraciji oslikava i današnje vreme. Analizom i razumevanjem društvenog konteksta, motiva, simbolike, ali i binarnih opozicija kao osnova u stvaralaštvu Sławomira Mrożeka, tekst će pokušati da ponudi odgovore na pitanja aktuelnosti, ali i recepcije navedenog dramskog dela, te predoči kulturu migracija kao sveprisutni fenomen.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ana Sekulić•  7  Drama, Migration Studies, Theatre of the Absurd, Adaptation (Literature)One way Trip. Essays on Mediterranean MigrationAfter a historical overview of migration within Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall (Minnucci), this collection of essays addresses Mediterranean issues: the case of Ceuta and Melilla (Sagnella), the relationship between Tunisia and... moreAfter a historical overview of migration within Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall (Minnucci), this collection of essays addresses Mediterranean issues: the case of Ceuta and Melilla (Sagnella), the relationship between Tunisia and the European Union (Gerli), the changes in North Africa from the Arab Spring to the Islamic State (Musso), the Lampedusa case (Strano), some European Models of citizenship (Turco), a focus on female genital mutilation/cutting in the context of migration (Faraca) and another one on the representation of immigrants in Italian Media (Elbreki). This collection of essays by young researchers analyzes, through various innovative approaches, the role of the Mediterranean and migration experiences.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gianluca Gerli and +2Virginia MinnucciAnnagrazia Faraca•  38  History, Social Movements, African Studies, Gender StudiesTravel in ancient Egypt. In: Elizabeth Frood and Willeke Wendrich (eds.), UCLA Encyclopedia of Egyptology, Los Angeles 2013.Travel was a crucial element of ancient Egyptian culture. An extensive traffic system by land and by water already existed as early as the Old Kingdom, including various means of transport that did not fundamentally change right through... moreTravel was a crucial element of ancient Egyptian culture. An extensive traffic system by land and by water already existed as early as the Old Kingdom, including various means of transport that did not fundamentally change right through to the New Kingdom. Traveling activity attested for various professions demonstrates that Egyptian society exercised a high degree of mobility. In the majority of cases, a journey was undertaken within the scope of the traveler’s work and on behalf of the pharaoh. Travel had a significant impact on the Egyptian world-view as well as on the development of theidentity of Egyptian society as an entity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Heidi Köpp-Junk•  32  Archaeology, Mobility/Mobilities, Medieval Studies, PilgrimageΟι προϊσλαμικές θρησκείες της Αραβικής Χερσονήσου: Το Αναμενόμενο και το Απροσδόκητο
Pre-islamic Arab Religions of the Peninsula: The Expected and the Unexpected, Athens 2015Save to LibraryDownloadby Michalis Marioras•  17  Islamic Law, Jewish - Christian Relations, Islamic Studies, Migration StudiesEstados de excepción en la excepción del Estado: Ceuta y MelillaCeuta y Melilla, las ciudades fronterizas de la Unión Europea en África, pueden ser definidas como territorios de excepción. Fundamentalmente por dos motivos. El primero: el estatus jurídico-político diferenciado que la arquitectura... moreCeuta y Melilla, las ciudades fronterizas de la Unión Europea en África, pueden ser definidas como territorios de excepción. Fundamentalmente por dos motivos. El primero: el estatus jurídico-político diferenciado que la arquitectura institucional española y comunitaria les reserva. Y el segundo: las particularidades de la política de control migratorio/fronterizo allí implementada. Ceuta y Melilla no están constituidas en Comunidades Autónomas. No forman parte del espacio aduanero de la Unión Europea, el Tratado de Schengen se despliega sobre ellas con notables singularidades y, formalmente, se hallan fuera del paraguas de protección de la OTAN.Enmarañado con las reivindicaciones territoriales de Marruecos, este estatus jurídico-político especial convierte a Ceuta y a Melilla en claras «excepciones de Estado». En este caldo de cultivo, en torno a las vallas que separan a ambas ciudades del resto de África opera un régimen de movilidad acrobático. Con harta frecuencia el régimen fronterizo de Ceuta y Melilla se muestra incompatible con el respeto a los derechos humanos y a la integridad física de los migrantes, conformando un «estado de excepción» de facto en materia de control migratorio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lorenzo Gabrielli•  15  Border Studies, Border Policy, Migration Studies, Anthropology of BordersMaritime Literature and Culture SeriesNEW BOOK SERIES: Maritime Literature and Culture offers alternative rubrics for literary and cultural studies to those of nation, continent and area, which inter-articulate with current debates on comparative and world literatures,... moreNEW BOOK SERIES: Maritime Literature and Culture offers alternative rubrics for literary and cultural studies to those of nation, continent and area, which inter-articulate with current debates on comparative and world literatures, globalization and planetary or Anthropocene thought in illuminating ways. The humanities have paid increasing attention to oceans, islands and shores as sites of cultural production, while the maritime imagination in contemporary literatures and other cultural forms has presented ways of responding to human migration, global neoliberalism and climate change. This series provides a forum for discussion of these and other maritime expressions, including enquiries that engage maritime and coastal zones as spaces that enable reflection on labour and leisure; racial terror and performances of freedom; environmental wonder and degradation; metaphor and materiality; and the various implications of globe, world and planet.Save to LibraryDownloadby Meg Samuelson•  20  Cultural Studies, World Literatures, Pacific Island Studies, LiteratureProcesses of Identity of Migrants in Classical AthensA life narrative as short addendum to Chapter IV/Lives in Translation. In Xenophon's Anabasis, Book IV, beginning of Chapter 8. Xenophon's army reaches the land of the Macrones at the east of Trabzon. The Macrones are lined up for... moreA life narrative as short addendum to Chapter IV/Lives in Translation. In Xenophon's Anabasis, Book IV, beginning of Chapter 8. Xenophon's army reaches the land of the Macrones at the east of Trabzon. The Macrones are lined up for battle. At this moment one of the peltasts came up to Xenophon, a man who said that he had been a slave at Athens, with word that he knew the language of these people; “I think,” he went on, “that this is my native country, and if there is nothing to hinder, I should like to have a talk with them.” (4.8.3). The man serves then as an interpret.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julien  Duchoud•  9  Classics, Social Sciences, Identity (Culture), Race and EthnicityDas Eigene und das Fremde im Roman Tauben fliegen auf von Melinda Nadj AbonjiSave to LibraryDownloadby Orsolya Tamássy-Lénárt•  9  German Studies, German Literature, Literature, TransnationalismSuicides of the Marginalised: Cultural Approaches to Suicide, Minorities and RelationalitySuicides among marginalised groups are one of the few occasions in which self-harm and suicide are framed as having cultural, social, environmental, historical or structural causes. Suicidology, psychology and public discourse typically... moreSuicides among marginalised groups are one of the few occasions in which self-harm and suicide are framed as having cultural, social, environmental, historical or structural causes. Suicidology, psychology and public discourse typically understand suicide causality to be grounded in individualised psychic pain and pathology, disavowing the social, cultural, environmental and linguistic contexts. However, public discourse on suicides of 'marginalised' groups such as asylum seekers, Indigenous people and queer/LGBT youth are 'authorised' to be discussed from social perspectives, informing opportunities to rethink suicidality, identity and liveability. Building on recent critical challenges to dominant theories, this article examines some of the ways the suicides of marginalised groups are described in social terms, demonstrating how cultural approaches to relationality, aspiration, performativity and mobility can expand current thinking on suicide cause and prevention.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rob Cover•  6  Sociology, Refugee Studies, LGBT Issues, SuicideSeemingly innocent pictures. Visual representations of migrants and refugees circulating through the Czech Facebook nationalistic universeIn recent years, a growing academic interest in both the theoretical and empirical examination of visual representations of migrants has become visible in the social sciences. Scholars coming from diverse disciplines have significantly... moreIn recent years, a growing academic interest in both the theoretical and empirical examination of visual representations of migrants has become visible in the social sciences. Scholars coming from diverse disciplines have significantly contributed to our critical knowledge of the processes (e.g. depersonalisation, dehistorisation or orientalisation) and stereotypical representations through which migrants are depicted. The article expands on this research field and it examines the practices of visual communication among Facebook users, who actively contribute to online discussions on the issue of migration by creating and sharing topical visual material drawing upon the local and the international anti-immigrant content and context. In particular, it focuses on the visuals, which actively use the figures of humour, satire or parody in order to diminish the representatives of migration. The content of Facebook posts is approached in a complex way, and therefore visual as well as textual elements are analysed and their rhetorical strategies and intertextual references are also taken into consideration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrea Průchová Hrůzová and +1Jan Zápotocký•  8  Cultural Studies, Visual Studies, Visual Culture, Race and RacismMujeres ausentes y cabezas de familia: realidades sociales y económicas de las familias transnacionales constituidas entre Colombia y EspañaLa presente investigación incorpora la dimensión transnacional al estudio del fenómeno migratorio. En particular, analiza los impactos que la migración comporta para las familias constituidas en un contexto transnacional. Ahora bien,... moreLa presente investigación incorpora la dimensión transnacional al estudio del fenómeno migratorio. En particular, analiza los impactos que la migración comporta para las familias constituidas en un contexto transnacional. Ahora bien, partimos de la presuposición de que los impactos no estructurales o simbólicos son tanto o más relevantes que los denominados impactos estructurales -piénsese, por ejemplo, en cómo la partida de uno o de varios miembros del grupo familiar obliga a reformular y reorientar diversos aspectos de la cotidianeidad familiar como son el reparto de funciones, lacomunicación etc.-. Todavía más, en realidad para comprender algunos de estos impactos físicos, las remesas por ejemplo, resulta necesario incorporar nuevas dimensiones deanálisis, como su incidencia en las relaciones y las prácticas de género. Por lo demás, al seleccionar un tipo de vida o forma familiar en particular, la representada por mujerescabezas de hogar, queremos, de una parte, apoyar nuestra hipótesis de partida, y de otra, presentar un diagnóstico más certero de la migración a España de un colectivo concreto,el colombiano. En efecto, aunque la migración conlleva efectos diversos en las familias que se configuran de manera transnacional, es en aquellas formas familiares monoparentales lideradas por mujeres donde el análisis de tales implicaciones resulta más complejo y sugerente. Al centrarnos por lo demás en el colectivo de colombianas,estamos no sólo ofreciendo una caracterización menos estereotipada de los que migran, más acorde con los cambios sociodemográficos ocurridos en el país, sino tambiénproveyendo un análisis más riguroso de uno de los grupos nacionales que tiene mayor presencia en España.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nelcy Yoly Valencia Olivero•  11  Gender Studies, Colombia, Migration Studies, Colombian HistoryNextLast »Related TopicsTransnational migrationFollowFollowingMigrationFollowFollowingInternational MigrationFollowFollowingTransnationalismFollowFollowingSociology of MigrationFollowFollowingBorder StudiesFollowFollowingCitizenshipFollowFollowingForced MigrationFollowFollowingImmigrationFollowFollowingMobility/MobilitiesFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023