Copper age Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Copper age10,692 FollowersRecent papers in Copper ageTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleThe case study of Case Bastione: first analyses of 3rd millennium cal BC paleoenvironmental and subsistence systems in central Sicily (2020)Archaeological investigations carried out at Case Bastione (Enna, central Sicily) provide a key insight into the cultural and environmental changes that occurred during the transition from the Copper Age to the Bronze Age. Preliminary... moreArchaeological investigations carried out at Case Bastione (Enna, central Sicily) provide a key insight into the cultural and environmental changes that occurred during the transition from the Copper Age to the Bronze Age. Preliminary data of an ongoing paleoenvironmental reconstruction through archaeobotanical analyses are here presented. The selective exploitation of vegetation, the adaptation of lifestyle to local resources, and changing climatic conditions are analysed using different on-site and off-site environmental and archaeological proxies. The environment around the site was constituted by mixed oak woodland. Dietary preferences were reconstructed through the analysis of carpo-remains. Isotopic values provide new data on the 4.2 ka BP event and its effects on vegetation in central Sicily. In a whole, first results from Case Bastione give new light to human choices of vegetal resources exploitation. Comparison of the local results with the regional pollen data support the hypothesis that the growth in population and settlement in the inland part of the island since the Late Copper Age may reflect changing climatic conditions in coastal areas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Enrico Giannitrapani and +2Claudia SpecialeFilippo Iannì•  20  Stable isotope ecology, Environmental Archaeology, Landscape Archaeology, Mediterranean prehistoryCall for EAA #225 session: Looking beyond the microscope: Interdisciplinary approaches to use-wear and residue analysisUse-wear and residue analyses have come to play a fundamental role in archaeological enquiries into the cultural biographies of past artefacts. Deployed either separately or in conjunction with one another, they have been turned by three... moreUse-wear and residue analyses have come to play a fundamental role in archaeological enquiries into the cultural biographies of past artefacts. Deployed either separately or in conjunction with one another, they have been turned by three generations of researchers into core scientific methods for understanding the behavioural and social interactions of prehistoric communities. In the last few years, a concerted effort has been made to improve and standardise research procedures in the two disciplines through explicit replication strategies, rigorous analytical and experimental protocols, and blind testing. This has ensured a degree of disciplinary maturity that, when successfully contextualised, can be harnessed to reach some of the highest dangling fruits of the interpretative tree and develop new explanatory models for past human behaviour. The session invites specialists in world prehistory to present their inter-and cross-disciplinary research into primate and human archaeology from the Lower Palaeolithic to the Metal Ages. It aims to explore socially contextualised problems, in which use-wear and residue analysis (on any materials and artefacts) are deployed as part of a wider range of integrated research approaches. The papers will discuss broad questions concerning the human past including the making of the mind in both primate and human evolution, technological changes and technological choices, interaction between and within communities of practice, skill, and acculturation (or lack thereof) following technology transfer. A parallel poster session will host contributions with narrower and more method-oriented foci.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anđa Petrović and +1Andrea Dolfini•  11  Mesolithic Archaeology, Neolithic Archaeology, Use Wear Analysis, Residue and Use-Wear AnalysisArmarsi per comunicare con gli uomini e con gli Dei: eroi in armiThis paper focus on the significance that weapons assume in various moments of pre- and protohistory and their comunication skills. To briefly investigate the problem, we analyse, as a common thread, the stele and the statues that... moreThis paper focus on the significance that weapons assume in various moments of pre- and protohistory and their comunication skills. To briefly investigate the problem, we analyse, as a common thread, the stele and the statues that represent the induvidual with different typologies of weapons, from Chalcolithic to late protohistory, and their association with the representation of the identification elements, such as ideological and religious symbols, the rich garments, the ornaments and the symbols of wealth: hunted and bred animals. Thereby, we try toinclude the weapons in pre- and protohistory’s cultural world and the values that characterized said world.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nuccia Negroni Catacchio•  3  Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Bronze Age, Copper ageA Comparative Approach to the Social Implementation of Metal Production during the 5th and 4th Millenium in the Levant and the Balkan PeninsulaThe notion of the change caused by smelting and melting technology during the 5th and 4th Millennium in the Levant is not well understood. Chronological errors and socio-economic misconceptions have been shrouding a clear view on the... moreThe notion of the change caused by smelting and melting technology during the 5th and 4th Millennium in theLevant is not well understood. Chronological errors and socio-economic misconceptions have been shrouding a clearview on the sequence of events and their interregional consequences. Surprisingly complex metallurgy started already inthe middle of the 5th Millennium BC and caused changes in social distinction, exchange systems and ideology. Othertechnologies were not directly affected, but on the contrary, lithic technique and ceramic styles show great elaboration.In a comparative approach the archaeological record of the Levant is compared to that of Southeastern Europe, andseveral structural similarities are discussed. It is argued, that the chronological parallelism is an argument against anautochthonous technical evaluation of the Balkan Peninsula, and that the social systems of both areas must have hadsimilarities, which made the new cast metal artefacts very attractive.Save to LibraryDownloadby Florian  Klimscha•  19  Prehistoric Archaeology, Archaeology of Ancient Israel, Diffusion of Innovations, Israel/PalestineJan TurekArchaeology of Death, 11:1 - Death and monuments in the landscapeArchaeology of Death E-learning Dear Colleagues, As the Covid-19 safety measures are limiting our communication, please use the following web link to download presentation of the Archaeology of Death course.... moreArchaeology of Death E-learningDear Colleagues,As the Covid-19 safety measures are limiting our communication, please use the following web link to download presentation of the Archaeology of Death course.https://cuni.academia.edu/JanTurek/Teaching-DocumentsSince the lesson 4, that we have already missed I include much more texts and references, so you can use it as e-learning material.Let’s hope we are going to have chance to catch up with the lectures later the spring term.Meanwhile stay safeand Good luck!Sincerely Jan TurekCenter for Theoretical StudyThe lecture provides a basic overview of the theory and methodology of the study of funerary areas, burial contexts and social and symbolic perception of death in prehistoric societies. Through the archaeological evidence of funerary rituals will be presented not only prehistoric people's attitudes toward death and the afterlife but also their culture, social organization, symbolic systems and cosmology. The focus on archaeology of personhood will be targeted mainly on the analysis of age and gender categories. Introductory topics summarize the methodology of field and laboratory research of funerary data in archaeology including application of scientific methods, spatial analysis of burial data and palaeodemography. In the interpretation section of the course an attention is also paid to the social and ritual significance of death and the transformation of human understanding of mortality. We are going to focus on case studies from different periods and locations throughout the world from Palaeolithic to the rise of historical societies. Case studies will further shed light on the social interpretation of burial data and their use in reconstructing social relationships, and will present significant discoveries. The end of the course is devoted to the ethics of the archaeological research of funerary and the political and ethical controversies surrounding human remains. This lecture is designed for audience among archaeologists, anthropologists, historians, and others who have a professional interest in funerary evidence, or general curiosity about past death and burial.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jan Turek•  20  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Anthropology, Landscape ArchaeologyPolyethyleneimine impregnation on activated carbon: Effects of impregnation amount and molecular number on textural characteristics and metal adsorption capacitiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohamed Aroua•  33  Materials Engineering, Colloids and Surfaces, Activated carbon adsorption, Microporosity of Carbonate reservoirsObón 2017 - Historia de la investigación experimental sobre la metalurgia del cobre primitivaEn este artículo, el lector encontrará una síntesis del conjunto de investigaciones que han aplicado la experimentación para el estudio de las técnicas prehistóricas de transformación de minerales de cobre. Se trata de un corpus... moreEn este artículo, el lector encontrará una síntesis del conjunto de investigaciones que han aplicado la experimentación para el estudio de las técnicas prehistóricas de transformación de minerales de cobre. Se trata de un corpus experimental de trabajos clasificados según la cronología y el ámbito geográfico que ofrece una visión de conjunto de esta cuestión, y además puede ser utilizado para consultas específicas. Tras valorar los procedimientos y los resultados de cada aportación según el criterio de rigor de la teoría de la experimentación en arqueología, he podido constatar la escasez de proyectos a largo plazo así como de experimentaciones abordadas de manera realista.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alberto Obón•  14  Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Chalcolithic Archaeology, Bronze Age ArchaeologyKobberøksen fra Glim. Rigdom og ritualer i tiden for bondestenalderens monumentale byggeboomDe senere års stærkt øgede interesse for detektorbrug blandt danske amatørarkæologer har ført til en kraftig forøgelse i indleveringen af danefæ i form af metalgenstande. Ofte når historier om spændende skattefund fra middelalderen og de... moreDe senere års stærkt øgede interesse for detektorbrug blandt danske amatørarkæologer har ført til en kraftig forøgelse i indleveringen af danefæ i form af metalgenstande. Ofte når historier om spændende skattefund fra middelalderen og de metalrige perioder af oldtiden frem til nyhedsmediernes forsider. Store møntskatte og smykkefund imponerer og udlægges som et drømmeresultat af de ofte mange timers indsats med afsøgning af danske pløjemarker. Metaldetektorens længe ventede udslag kan dog også dække over noget i første omgang mere undseeligt. Noget, der ikke skinner, men som i sjældne tilfælde alligevel vidner om værdi og prestige, og som tilmed giver et indblik i en befolkning, hvis levn efter mere end 5.500 i jorden ikke længere fremstår let forståelige i nutiden. Et sådant fund er kobberøksen fra Glim.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emil Winther Struve•  4  Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Funnel Beaker Culture, Copper ageFarkas Cs.–Horváth T. 2019: Szihalom község területén előkerült késő rézkori telepjelenségek. Agria LII, 69-93.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tünde Horváth and +1Csilla Farkas•Copper age11 Arolo loc Le Rupi necropoliSave to LibraryDownloadby Raffaele Carlo  DE MARINIS•  2  Late Bronze Age archaeology, Copper ageIl territorio di Adrano: la grotta del SantoSave to LibraryDownloadby Francesco  Privitera•  9  Prehistoric Archaeology, Mediterranean prehistory, Funerary Archaeology, Religion and ritual in prehistoryHorváth, T. - Zandler K. 2017: Pattintott kőeszköz raktár-lelet a Baden-Komplexum Hódmezővásárhely–Gorzsa-V. számú homokbánya lelőhelyéről. Archaeometriai Műhely 2017/1.A small mug, contained more than 100 pieces chipped stone tools as a depot-find was excavated in 2009 in a settlement pit of the Baden culture at the boundary of Hódmezővásárhely-Gorzsa. The raw materials of the lithics are Bakony-type... moreA small mug, contained more than 100 pieces chipped stone tools as a depot-find was excavated in 2009 in a settlement pit of the Baden culture at the boundary of Hódmezővásárhely-Gorzsa. The raw materials of the lithics are Bakony-type radiolarites. This is an unique depot find from this epoch. Regarding the Bakony radiolarites as far-trade source in a settlement in a Great Hungarian Plain, it can be worthwhile to detail its real value, the technical aspects of the finds and the customs of storeaging from this age and culture. Kivonat A badeni kultúra települési gödrében, egy kiskorsóban több mint száz darabból álló pattintott kőeszköz raktárlelet került elő ásatás során 2009-ben, Hódmezővásárhely gorzsai határában. A kövek nyersanyaga bakonyi radiolarit-típusokból áll. A Baden-komplexum területén ez az első ismert pattintott kőeszköz-kincs. Mivel a nyersanyag az Alföld területére távolsági kereskedelemmel juthatott el, érdemes részletezni a korszak és a kultúra raktározási szokásait, a leletegyüttes a maga korában képviselt értékét, és a kőeszközök jellegét.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tünde Horváth•  2  Copper age, Chipped Stone ArtefactsDes pieds-bots dans la vallée des Merveilles (Alpes-Maritimes) ?The high valleys of the Mount Bego region, in the Southern Alps, shelter a very important corpus of rock art from Recent Prehistory (IV-II millennium B.C.). Among these thousands of engravings, at least four anthropomorphic figures,... moreThe high valleys of the Mount Bego region, in the Southern Alps, shelter a very important corpus of rock art from Recent Prehistory (IV-II millennium B.C.). Among these thousands of engravings, at least four anthropomorphic figures, attributed to the Final Neolithic, share a singularity: their feet are turned inward. The anatomical anomaly evokes the pathology of the bilateral clubfoot. If the identification hypothesis is correct, and knowing the context that accompanies these representations – namely the achievement of copper metallurgy in Northern Italy and in the Southern Alps –, maybe we should see there the oldest manifestations of the orthopedic affections from which, by nature, the mythological blacksmiths suffer.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jules Masson Mourey•  13  Mythology And Folklore, Iconography, Neolithic Archaeology, History of Art"The Copper Age settlement of Valencina de la Concepción (Seville, Spain): demography, metallurgy and spatial organization."This paper presents the results obtained from a review of the archaeological record available for the prehistoric site of Valencina de la Concepción (Seville, Spain), one of the most important settlements of SW Iberia in the 3rd and 2nd... moreThis paper presents the results obtained from a review of the archaeological record available for the prehistoric site of Valencina de la Concepción (Seville, Spain), one of the most important settlements of SW Iberia in the 3rd and 2nd millennia BC. Two main variables, namely demography and metallurgical production, are examined in the light of both conventional and spatial statistical methods (with particular emphasis on significance testing) with the aim of assessing the wider issue of social complexity. Among the various conclusions emerging from this empirical study, two stand out. Firstly, neither the correlation between the total extension of the settlement and the complexity of its internal organisation, nor the spatial delimitationbetween domestic/productive and funerary practices is as straightforward as previously claimed. Secondly, no simple, clear-cut statistical patterns are found in the spatial distribution of human remains or metal objects. These conclusionsprovide the basis for a critique of currently held interpretations of Valencina de la Concepción as the political centre of an early state extending across the lower Guadalquivir valley.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leonardo García Sanjuán•  11  Spatial Analysis, State Formation, Megalithic Monuments, Iberian Prehistory (Archaeology)«Hammerstones from early copper mines»: sintesi dei ritrovamenti nell'Europa e nel Mediterraneo orientale e prime considerazioni sui mazzuoli di Monte Loreto (IV millennio BC - Liguria)Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrea De Pascale•  2  Copper extraction and production, Copper ageOndráček, J. – Dvořák, P. – Matějíčková, A. 2005: Siedlungen der  Glockenbecherkultur in Mähren. Katalog der Funde. Pravěk NŘ, Supplementum 15, BrnoSave to LibraryDownloadby Petr Dvořák•  5  Bell Beakers (Archaeology), Copper age, Bell Beaker Culture, Moravian ArchaeologyWyniki badań archeometalurgicznych tzw. siekiery z dawnej miejscowości Antoniny, pow. chodzieski (with summary)The article presents the results of archaeometallurgical studies performed on a so-called copper axe recovered from the vicinity of a former village of Antoniny, Chodzież district (Great Poland).The relics of an intensive settlement... moreThe article presents the results of archaeometallurgical studies performed on a so-called copper axe recovered from the vicinity of a former village of Antoniny, Chodzież district (Great Poland).The relics of an intensive settlement activity taken by the Funnel Beaker culture (TRB) groups were recognized around the discovery place. By means of the typological analysis it was found that the so-called axe from Antoniny is a defragmented part of a Jászladány B3 type axe-adze. Its chronology can be arbitrarily placed between the late 5th and 2nd half of 4th millennium BC. The axe-adze from Antoniny is another aquatic metal finding (deposited probably also with a dagger) related to the Funnel Beaker culture. The axe-adze was described in terms of its raw material profile (EDXRF) and micro- and macrostructure (OM). With established both contextual and raw material profiles, the provenance and chronology of the deposition act of the axe-adze from Antoniny were also discussedSave to LibraryDownloadby Łukasz Kowalski and +2Kamil AdamczakAldona Garbacz-Klempka•  15  Prehistoric Archaeology, Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, ArchaeometallurgyEl contexto patrimonial del Tholos de Montelirio: Historia de las actuaciones y protección legalResumen: El presente trabajo ofrece una breve síntesis de las actuaciones arqueológicas que se han desarrollado en el tholos de Montelirio, ubicado en Castilleja de Guzmán (Sevilla), desde su descubrimiento en 1998 hasta la última... moreResumen: El presente trabajo ofrece una breve síntesis de las actuaciones arqueológicas que se han desarrollado en el tholos de Montelirio, ubicado en Castilleja de Guzmán (Sevilla), desde su descubrimiento en 1998 hasta la última actividad desarrollada en el año 2010. Se exponen las circunstancias y los motivos que han dado lugar al estudio de este gran monumento megalítico, incluyendo su excavación completa y el estudio científico de los datos obtenidos, a la vez que se vinculan los resultados de las distintas actuaciones arqueológicas con la evolución de las figuras de protección de carácter patrimonial que se han dado al monumento y a la Zona Arqueológica de Valencina de la Concepción-Castilleja de Guzmán, de la que es parte. Abstract: This paper offers a short synthesis of the archaeological work carried out at the Montelirio tholos, located in Castilleja de Guzmán (Sevilla), since its discovery in 1998 until the last excavation season, which took place in 2010. The circumstances and motives that have led to the study of this great megalithic monument, including its full excavation and the scientific analysis of the evidence retrieved, are discussed. At the same time, the results of the various archaeological interventions are connected with the evolution of the legal measures adopted to protect the monument and the Valencina de la Concepción-Castilleja de Guzmán Archaeological Zone it is part of.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alvaro Fernández Flores•  6  Archaeology, Megalithic Monuments, Archaeological Excavation, Patrimonio Cultural(2016) Los textiles elaborados con cuentas perforadas de Montelirio [The Montelirio Beaded Textiles]. In: Fernández Flórez, A, García Sanjuán, L & Díaz-Zorita Bonilla, M. "Montelirio. Un gran monumento megalítico de la Edad del Cobre". Sevilla: Junta de Andalucia, 345-364.Abstract: This chapter (written in Spanish) provides a general characterization of the garments with beads documented in the Montelirio tholos, including considerations of their manufacture and use in mortuary practices. Firstly, the... moreAbstract: This chapter (written in Spanish) provides a general characterization of the garments with beads documented in the Montelirio tholos, including considerations of their manufacture and use in mortuary practices. Firstly, the contexts in which the beads were found, the position and distribution of the latter, also in association with specific individuals, are described with attention to the post-depositional processes that affected the formation of the archaeological deposits. Secondly, the techniques of bead manufacture and assemblage deployed to create elaborate garments, as well as the characteristics of the latter, are examined in light of the evidence provided by the beads, their location, and distribution. The chapter concludes with some preliminary thoughts on the social dimension of the manufacture of such elaborate garments with beads, which most probably required organized craftsmanship, and their use in the mortuary practices developed in the Montelirio tholos.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marta Díaz-Guardamino and +2Ellie  WilliamsJosé Ángel Garrido Cordero•  15  History of Dress, Funerary Archaeology, Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic ArchaeologyRitrovamenti archeologici nelle grotte dell'EtnaRiassunto Dopo una breve introduzione sull'importanza delle grotte per lo studio della Preistoria, si parla delle grotte vulcaniche dell'Etna. Si accenna alla storia delle loro scoperte e delle interpretazioni che le accompagnarono e si... moreRiassunto Dopo una breve introduzione sull'importanza delle grotte per lo studio della Preistoria, si parla delle grotte vulcaniche dell'Etna. Si accenna alla storia delle loro scoperte e delle interpretazioni che le accompagnarono e si passa poi a ricostruire la successione delle diverse culture preistoriche in Sicilia e nella regione etnea, in rapporto alle testimonianze che possono avere lasciato all'interno delle grotte: da ciò emerge la grande densità di presenze durante il periodo tra la Tarda Età del Rame e l'Antica Età del Bronzo, quando risultano frequentate decine di grotte. Si elencano quindi brevemente le varie ipotesi fatte sugli usi delle grotte da parte dell'uomo preistorico (abitativa, funeraria, cultuale): risulta evidente che sull'Etna la seconda ipotesi è quella con più certezza attestata, ma recenti indagini hanno fatto ipotizzare una attività cultuale probabilmente collegata con quella funeraria, in particolare nella grotta Petralia, di recente esplorazione. Segue una breve descrizione di 8 grotte dell'Etna particolarmente significative per i dati che forniscono sulla loro frequentazione durante la Preistoria. Le grotte e l'archeologia Contrariamente a quello che si crede comunemente (ma l'idea risale alla cultura classica e la troviamo in Lucrezio) la caverna non costituì l'originaria abitazione dell'uomo, che nelle prime fasi della preistoria era un cacciatore nomade che si accampava all'aperto con ripari di fortuna. Ciò non toglie che le cavità naturali siano state saltuariamente frequentate per vari scopi durante quasi tutto il corso della Preistoria e costituiscano uno dei luoghi migliori per lo studio archeologico di alcuni aspetti delle comunità primitive. I fattori di questa favorevole situazione sono di ordine fisico e antropico. Innanzitutto, nel corso dei millenni le grotte, con poche eccezioni hanno avuto momenti di frequentazione e altri, molto più lunghi di abbandono. Ciò ha fatto sì che ci siano cavità che, specie nelle parti più interne, non sono state più visitate dall'epoca preistorica a quella attuale, quando qualche speleologo ne ha violato i recessi più profondi e che hanno perciò mantenuto visibili le ultime situazioni di frequenza antropica senza troppi disturbi. Anche da un punto di vista fisico-geologico, le grotte, specie se non attive carsicamente e non interessate da frane recenti, sono ambienti nei quali le azioni degli agenti atmosferici sono per forza di cose ridotte, soprattutto nel campo dell'erosione, e gli spostamenti del contenuto antropico (organico e inorganico) sono stati di minore entità. L'unica conseguenza negativa, nel caso di grotte senza interro, può essere che importanti resti organici come le ossa non si mineralizzino e quindi si dissolvano, come si è verificato proprio in alcune grotte etnee. Nei casi, invece, in cui esse siano state interessate, nel corso della preistoria, da qualche evento eccezionale (frane, alluvioni), ciò ha comportato il formarsi di strati sterili, in seguito non manomessi, che hanno permesso di separare le varie fasi di vita e distinguere i manufatti e le altre forme di cultura materiale tipiche di quelle fasi. Per questo motivo nei primi periodi della ricerca paletnologica, la ricerca in grotta è stata la più praticata, e ha permesso di avere attendibili sequenze di culture per le varie fasi della Preistoria. Se il grado di informazioni che possono darci le grotte può considerarsi buono per l'aspetto cronologico, minore può essere la loro attendibilità per gli aspetti dell'economia e dell'organizzazione sociale, non trattandosi di siti di normale attività quotidiana. Quando però sia certa la loro frequentazione per aspetti specifici legati alla sfera funeraria o religiosa, allora tornano ad essere un luogo privilegiato per lo studio della cultura dei vari gruppi umani.Save to LibraryDownloadby Francesco  Privitera•  9  Mediterranean prehistory, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Early Bronze Age (Archaeology), PrehistoryLászló Attila - Sztáncsuj Sándor József: Őskori település a borvizek felett. Régészeti kutatások Málnásfürdő-Füvenyestetőn (1909-2019). Archaeologiai Értesítő 145 (2020), 1-37The South-East Transylvanian Malnaș-Băi (Málnásfürdő) has been known to European archaeology since the beginning of the 20th century. Near the former spa resort there is a multi-layered settlement of the Copper Age Ariușd... moreThe South-East Transylvanian Malnaș-Băi (Málnásfürdő) has been known to European archaeology since the beginning of the 20th century. Near the former spa resort there is a multi-layered settlement of the Copper Age Ariușd (Erősd)-Cucuteni-Tripolye (ukr. Trypillia) cultural circle. Systematic archaeological excavations were carried out at the site in the second half of the last century (1976-1989). Recent excavations and interdisciplinary studies, conducted in parallel, took place between 2014 and 2017. In the present study we briefly review the results of these investigations.A délkelet-erdélyi Málnásfürdő a 20. század eleje óta ismert az európai régészet számára. Az egykori fürdőtelep határában a rézkori Erősd-Cucuteni-Tripolje (ukr. Trypillia) művelődési kör egyik, több rétegű települése található. A lelőhelyen a múlt század második felében folytak módszeres régészeti kutatások (1976-1989). Az újabb ásatásokra és velük párhuzamosan végzett interdiszciplináris vizsgálatokra 2014–2017 között került sor. Jelen tanulmányunkban ezeknek a kutatásoknak az eredményeit tekintjük át röviden.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sándor József  Sztáncsuj•  4  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Cucuteni-Tripolye culture, Copper ageTEGLIO (SO), LOCALITA' CORNAL - VECCHI E NUOVI DATISave to LibraryDownloadby Marco Tremari•  3  Landscape Archaeology, Alpine Archaeology, Copper age"Advances, problems and perspectives in the study of social inequality in Iberian Late Prehistory."This paper attempts a general assessment of the contributions included in this volume. We examine three main kinds of problems related to the research on social inequality in Iberian Late Prehistory. These are theoretical, empirical and... moreThis paper attempts a general assessment of the contributions included in this volume. We examine three main kinds of problems related to the research on social inequality in Iberian Late Prehistory. These are theoretical, empirical and interpretative. Among the first, we comment upon the very definition of social inequality, the taxonomical categories employed in social evolution, as well as the main factors causing inequality, with special attention to labour force mobilisation. Among the second, we highlight some weaknesses of the Iberian archaeological record for the investigation of the subject matter, such as the limitations of the absolute chronology or the settlement record. Finally, we discuss the propositions that have been put forward to understand the forms that social inequality took among Neolithic, Copper and Bronze Age communities, concluding that Iberian archaeologists would much benefit from a comparative perspective.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pedro  Díaz-del-Río and +1Leonardo García Sanjuán•  58  History, Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, AnthropologyNUEVAS APORTACIONES AL YACIMIENTO DE VALENCINA DE LA CONCEPCIÓN (SEVILLA). ACTUACIÓN ARQUEOLÓGICA EN CALLE ITALIA Nº 6Save to LibraryDownloadby Helena Paredes•  4  Prehistoric Archaeology, Prehistory, Copper age, CalcolíticoKatalog der im Gebäude der k. k. Oberrealschule befindlichen Landesausstellung, Laibach 1883 (uploaded 12. 11. 2015)Abstract During the second half of July and the first days of August 1883, the provincial committee of the Duchy of Carniola (Deželni odbor vojvodine Kranjske) organized a provincial exhibition in the Oberrealschule of Ljubljana to... moreAbstractDuring the second half of July and the first days of August 1883, the provincial committee of the Duchy of Carniola (Deželni odbor vojvodine Kranjske) organized a provincial exhibition in the Oberrealschule of Ljubljana to celebrate the 600th anniversary of the annexation of the Province of Carniola by the Habsburg crown. The exhibition was exhaustively advertised in the feuilleton Deželna razstava v realki (Provincial exhibition in the Oberrealschule), printed in the newspaper Slovenski narod from July 21 to August 1, 1883. Two exhibition catalogues were edited, a German one 39 pages long (Katalog der im Gebäude der k. k. Oberrealschule befindlichen Landesausstellung ...) and a Slovenian one 32 pages long (Katalog deželne razstave v poslopji tukajšnje ...). There are several important differences between the two catalogues. In the Slovenian edition, the Habsburgica chapter (German catalogue, pp. 22–24) is missing, though it has 6 pages of supplementary material. Thirteen pages of the German catalogue (pp. 3–15), but only two of the Slovenian one (pp. 3–4), are devoted to the archaeological part of the exhibition entitled Carniolia antiqua. Krain in der Urzeit und unter der Römerherrschaft (Carniola in antiquity and under Roman Rule). The exhibition presented many objects from Dežman’s pile-dwellings at Ljubljansko barje (Ljubljana Marshes), from the Urnfield period, from Hallstatt period graves (Vače, Šmarjeta, Magdalenska gora near Šmarje, Tržišče near Dolenja vas, Šmihel pod Nanosom) and from the Roman period. Displayed artifacts included the famous Hallstatt-period Vače Situla, discovered in1882, and exceptional objects that belonged to the second Late Roman hoard from Gora above Polhov Gradec, excavated in 1883. Finds not only came from the Prehistoric and Roman collections of the Provincial museum (Deželni muzej, Landesmuseum) in Ljubljana, but also from some private collections (Wilhelm Dollhof, Prince Ernst Windischgrätz from Vienna, Albert Samassa, Luka Tavčar and Lady Vok from Ljubljana, Anton Globočnik from Postojna, and Franjo Jarc from Mirna). Several of the latter were never added to any museum collection. This text was proof-read by Emily Zavodny from the Penn State University (USA).IzvlečekV drugi polovici julija in prvih dneh avgusta leta 1883 je bila v ljubljanski realki postavljena deželna razstava, ki jo je pripravil Deželni odbor vojvodine Kranjske. Tega leta so praznovali 600-letnico priključitve Kranjske habsburški kroni. O razstavi je izčrpno poročal podlistek Deželna razstava v realki, ki je izhajal v Slovenskem narodu od 21. julija do 1. avgusta 1883. Natisnjena sta bila dva razstavna kataloga, nemški na 39 straneh (Katalog der im Gebäude der k. k. Oberrealschule befindlichen Landesausstellung ...) in slovenski na 32 straneh (Katalog deželne razstave v poslopji tukajšnje ...). Med njima je nekaj pomembnih razlik. V slovenskem ni poglavja Habsburgica (nem. katalog, str. 22–24), ima pa 6 strani dodatka. V nemškem je arheološki del razstave, ki je nosil naslov Carniolia antiqua. Kranjska v davnini in pod rimsko oblastjo, popisan na trinajstih straneh (od 3 do 15), v slovenskem pa na samo dveh (strani 3 in 4). Na razstavi je bilo veliko predmetov iz Dežmanovih kolišč na Ljubljanskem barju, iz žarnogrobiščne dobe, iz halštatskih grobov (Vače, Šmarjeta, Magdalenska gora pri Šmarju, Tržišče pri Dolenji vasi,  Šmihel pod Nanosom) in iz rimske dobe, med njimi leta 1882 odkrita vaška situla in leta 1883 izkopani predmeti druge zakladne najdbe z Gore nad Polhovim Gradcem. Poleg najdb iz prazgodovinske in rimske zbirke Deželnega muzeja so bile na ogled tudi najdbe iz zasebnih zbirk (Wilhelma Dollhofa, kneza Ernsta Windischgrätza z Dunaja, Alberta Samasse, Luke Tavčarja in gospe Vok iz Ljubljane, Antona Globočnika iz Postojne ter Franja Jarca z Mirne), katerih del pozneje ni prišel v noben muzej.  Ljubljana, November 12, 2015                       Dragan BožičSave to LibraryDownloadby Dragan Božič•  19  Early Iron Age, Hoards, Copper age, Late Roman PeriodR. Krauß/V. Leusch/S. Zäuner, Zur frühesten Metallurgie in Europa − Untersuchungen des kupferzeitlichen Gräberfeldes von Varna. Bulgarien-Jahrbuch 2012, 64-82. Save to LibraryDownloadby Raiko Krauß•  4  Prehistoric Archaeology, Bulgaria, Early Metallurgy, Copper ageLiterature extract from AMAR ANNUS: On the Origin of Watchers: A Comparative Study of the Antediluvian Wisdom in Mesopotamian and Jewish Traditions1. Abstract …………………………………..................................…….. 1 2. Introduction .....................................................................2 3. Dissemination of the Antediluvian Knowledge: Lawful or forbidden?... more1.Abstract …………………………………..................................…….. 12.Introduction .....................................................................23.Dissemination of the Antediluvian Knowledge: Lawful or forbidden? …………………….................................……… 54.The ‘Seed from before the Flood’ and the        Transgression of the Watchers ……………….............................................................…... 85.The apkallus as Evil Beings in Mesopotamian ............. 106.Mesopotamian and Jewish Demonology Compared ... 117.The Great Flood according to the Erra Epic …............... 128.The Term for Watchers in Aramaic and Akkadian .......  149.Conclusion ………………………................................………….….. 15Save to LibraryDownloadby Manfred Bundschuh•  11  Aegean Bronze Age (Bronze Age Archaeology), Bronze and Iron Ages in Eastern Mediterranean (Archaeology), Aegean Bronze Age, MelosDynamic changes in genomic and social structures in third millennium BCE central EuropeEurope’s prehistory oversaw dynamic and complex interactions of diverse societies, hitherto unexplored at detailed regional scales. Studying 271 human genomes dated ~4900 to 1600 BCE from the European heartland, Bohemia, we reveal... moreEurope’s prehistory oversaw dynamic and complex interactions of diverse societies, hitherto unexplored at detailed regional scales. Studying 271 human genomes dated ~4900 to 1600 BCE from the European heartland, Bohemia, we reveal unprecedented genetic changes and social processes. Major migrations preceded the arrival of “steppe” ancestry, and at ~2800 BCE, three genetically and culturally differentiated groups coexisted. Corded Ware appeared by 2900 BCE, were initially genetically diverse, did not derive all steppe ancestry from known Yamnaya, and assimilated females of diverse backgrounds. Both Corded Ware and Bell Beaker groups underwent dynamic changes, involving sharp reductions and complete replacements of Y-chromosomal diversity at ~2600 and ~2400 BCE, respectively, the latter accompanied by increased Neolithic-like ancestry. The Bronze Age saw new social organization emerge amid a ≥40% population turnover.Save to LibraryDownloadby Miroslav Dobeš•  9  Science, Neolithic Archaeology, Bell Beakers (Archaeology), Bronze Age ArchaeologyStrutture abitative dell’età del rame nell’area romana. Gli spazi del vivere e non: ipotesi ricostruttiveSave to LibraryDownloadby Chiara La Marca•  6  Prehistoric Archaeology, Funerary Archaeology, Prehistory, Settlement archaeologyЗбенович В.Г. Дракон в изобразительной традиции культуры Кукутени-Триполье // Духовная культура древних обществ. Киев, 1991.Статья посвящена интерпретации изобразительных мотивов керамики Трипольской культуры.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrey Behr•  5  Cucuteni-Tripolye culture, Copper age, European Neolithic, Copper Age, Bronze Age, European Copper and Bronze Age – Archaeometallurgy – Prehistoric Metalworking in Social Context – Settlement Archaeology – Application of Geophysical Methods in Archaeology – Neolithic – Theory / Cultural Anthropology – Material Culture StudiesContribuţii la cunoaşterea etapei finale a culturii Coţofeni în Crişana [Contributions to the research of final stage of Coţofeni culture]The Coţofeni culture settlement from Tăşad (Bihor county) remained unknown to the specialists, although there are some information about the materials found here, known for more than four decades. The finds presented in this study... moreThe Coţofeni culture settlement from Tăşad (Bihor county) remained unknown to the specialists, although there are some information about the materials found here, known for more than four decades. The finds presented in this study resulted from the research made by N. Chidioşan, between 1971-1984 on Cetăţaua hill (363 m). They were found on the entire site, but rarely come from a distinct level, due to hill arrangements in Iron Age. Unfortunately, there were not notified Coţofeni contexts, although their existence should be considered.Findings consist solely of pottery. More ceramic forms can be reconstructed: mugs, cups, dish, bowls, jugs, amphorae, vases with flattened body, cookware, dishes, jars, cups and pots with foot. The decor was done by impression, incision, Furchenstich technique, by fake string, pseudo-excision, applications and slurry. A ceramic bobbin also was found (pl. 13/7).The existing analogies for Coţofeni settlement from Tăşad indicates a dating of materials in Coţofeni IIIc stage, with very good analogies in the discoveries from Câmpanii de Sus-Măgura, Prihodişte-Peştera Prihodişte, Româneşti-Peştera cu Apă, Băile Herculane-Peştera Hoţilor caves, or at Dubova-Cuina Turcului rock shelter and open settlement from Clit-Grueţul Negrilor, but also in cremation necropolis from Medieşu Aurit. In this horizon contact elements with Vučedol culture and Ostrikovac group are present. The presence of this Coţofeni late community in Crişana is due to a south impulse from the area of contact with cultural entities above mentioned.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gruia Fazecaş•  6  Prehistoric Archaeology, Ceramics, Copper age, Bihor county"Pigmentos de sulfuro de mercurio (cinabrio) en contextos funerarios de época calcolítica en el Sur de la península Ibérica: investigaciones sobre el uso, depósitos minerales explotados y redes de distribución a través de la caracterización composicional composicional e isotópica."The archaeological data is showing the relatively common use of red pigments in Prehistory in southern Iberian Peninsula. The application of archaeometric techniques (XRF) has allowed the identification of cinnabar (HgS) in Chalcolithic... moreThe archaeological data is showing the relatively common use of red pigments in Prehistory in southern Iberian Peninsula. The application of archaeometric techniques (XRF) has allowed the identification of cinnabar (HgS) in Chalcolithic period funerary contexts. In order to establish the provenance of this mercury ore, cinnabar pigments obtained from these Chalcolithic contexts have been analyzed by Lead Isotopes, as well as samples from cinnabar mineralizations located in Southern Iberian Peninsula.Save to LibraryDownloadby Víctor Manuel Hurtado Pérez•  10  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Chalcolithic ArchaeologyBericht zur unterwasserarchäologischen Prospektion MNR.: 72126.19.01 Keutschacher See 2019Bericht zur unterwasserarchäologischen Prospektion Keutschacher See inkl. Sicherungsmaßnahmen. Prospektionsanlass war der 2011 erworbene Status ausgewählter Pfahlbauten als UNESCO-Welterbe. Damit ist diese österreichische, prähistorische... moreBericht zur unterwasserarchäologischen Prospektion Keutschacher See inkl. Sicherungsmaßnahmen. Prospektionsanlass war der 2011 erworbene Status ausgewählter Pfahlbauten als UNESCO-Welterbe. Damit ist diese österreichische, prähistorische Inselsiedlung in die Riege der bedeutendsten Denkmale von europäischen Rang aufgenommen worden. Dieser neue Status beinhaltet auch die Verpflichtung, für einen angemessenen Schutz dieses unter Wasser liegenden Denkmals zu sorgen.Save to LibraryDownloadby Henrik Pohl•  9  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Cultural Heritage, Heritage ConservationJan Turek 2020: Pivo z doby kamenné,  Vesmír 99, č. 2, 106-107Archeologové zjistili, že lidé z pozdní doby kamenné (eneolitu) používali nové typy keramických nádob, které jejich předkové nepotřebovali. Takové nádoby nacházíme nejen v hrobech, ale také v celých souborech ukládaných do země mimo... moreArcheologové zjistili, že lidé z pozdní doby kamenné(eneolitu) používali nové typy keramických nádob, které jejichpředkové nepotřebovali. Takové nádoby nacházíme nejenv hrobech, ale také v celých souborech ukládaných do zeměmimo pohřebiště, patrně jako součást nějakého obětníhorituálu. Podobné „rituály“ dodnes provozují miliony lidí nacelém světě, aniž si uvědomují, jak hluboké kořeny jejichchování má.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jan Turek•  14  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Anthropology, Social and Cultural AnthropologyInternational Obsidian Conference 2019Save to LibraryDownloadby Kata Szilágyi•  18  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), ObsidianMystérium Liskovskej jaskyneV roku 1871 uskutočnil Béla Majláth v jaskyni pod Mníchom, ležiacej za humnami obce Lisková, prvý speleoarcheologický výskum v uhorskej časti monarchie. Jeho výsledkom bol objav podozrivo vyzerajúcej ľudskej lebky mohutnejšieho vzhľadu,... moreV roku 1871 uskutočnil Béla Majláth v jaskyni pod Mníchom, ležiacej za humnami obce Lisková, prvý speleoarcheologický výskum v uhorskej časti monarchie. Jeho výsledkom bol objav podozrivo vyzerajúcej ľudskej lebky mohutnejšieho vzhľadu, kamenné nástroje, ľudské a zvieracie kosti a údajné zuby z mamuta. Nález okamžite vyvolal obrovský záujem, pretože dovtedy sa také staré pozostatky človeka nenašli v žiadnej jaskyni v Uhorsku. Preto bol v roku 1874 poverený realizáciou revízneho výzkumu mladý geológ Lajos Lóczy, neskôr jeden z najvýznamnejších maďarských geografov a cestovateľov. Jeho závery priniesli dôležité poznatky o existencii osídlenia z viacerých pravekých aj historických fáz. Ľudské pozostatky z viac ako 48 jedincov vniesli do problematiky viac svetla. Od tejto chvíle jaskyňu prekopávali ďalší a ďalší, v snahe objaviť skryté poklady.Publikácia podáva podrobný prehľad o dejinách výskumu tejto pozoruhodnej krasovej lokality, analýzu nálezov, písomných správ a svedectiev, aby na na konci pomohla odhaliť tajuplné rituály, ktoré sa tu počas takmer 6 000 rokov odohrávali. Početné zvyšky ludí, medené, bronzové a jantárové šperky, keramické zlomky a kamenné nástroje dotvárajú kulisu rituálov, ktoré zahŕňali aj tzv. exkarnáciu, čiže zámerné oddeľovanie svaloviny od kostí ako aj rôzne prejavy pohrebných obradov. Najintenzívnejšia etapa využívania jaskyne je spojená s ľudom lengyelskej kultúry a lievikovitých pohárov v neskorej dobe kamennej-medenej. Najmä posledne menovaná kultúra je spojená s budovaním megalitických pamiatok po celej západnej a severnej Európe. To, ako sa ide megalitizmu odrazili pri využívaní jaskýň, kto boli ľudia, ktorí v neďalekých Starohorských vrchoch ťažili meď a prečo svojich mŕtvych mohli pochovávať do skalnej hrobky sa môže čitateľ dozvedieť na konci celého príbehu. Publikácia, na ktorej pracoval tím popredných odborníkov, je písaná pútavým investigatívnym štýlom, pridržiava sa však dôsledne vedeckých faktov a dostupných prameňov. Okrem materiálovej časti sa dotýka aj rôznych legiend spojenej s touto jaskyňou aj vrchom Mních, na ktorom v praveku vznikla sústava hradísk a údajne tu mal stať aj termplársky kláštor. Kniha sa však dotýka ja mmnohých ďalších otázok liptovskej prehistórie, čím sa stáva dôležitým prameňom nielen k dejinám tohto regionu. Najstaršia kovová plastika vola so zvyškom jarma je dôležitým prameňom do problematiky vynálezu záprahu v dobe medenej, čím sa Liskovská jaskyňa zaraďuje k najdôležitejším európskym jaskynným náleziskám.Save to LibraryDownloadby Víťazoslav Struhár•  11  Mythology And Folklore, Bronze Age Archaeology, Religion and ritual in prehistory, History of ArcheologyLa necropoli Tranchina di SciaccaSave to LibraryDownloadby Domenica Gullì•  5  Prehistoric Archaeology, Death and Burial (Archaeology), Burial Practices (Archaeology), Copper ageDiversity of resources and volatility of metallurgical networks—multi‑methodological provenance analysis of neolithic and EBA‑copper‑artefacts from Switzerland and eastern FranceThirty-nine Neolithic and Early Bronze Age copper objects (primarily axe blades and daggers) from Central, southern and eastern Switzerland or eastern France were analysed typochronologically, chemically and with regard to their lead... moreThirty-nine Neolithic and Early Bronze Age copper objects (primarily axe blades and daggers) from Central, southern and eastern Switzerland or eastern France were analysed typochronologically, chemically and with regard to their lead isotope ratios. This combination of methods allows for more differentiated and reliable conclusions about the provenances of the copper ores and metallurgies than the individual methods could provide in isolation. The primacy of the typochronological classification is paramount for assessing the scientific results appropriately. For the period between c. 4300 and c. 1800 BCE, there is evidence of at least seven different metallurgical traditions found in the Prealps, some of them stemming from faraway innovation hotspots. These metallurgies do not form part of a continuous tradition; instead, they emerge unexpectedly and disappear again just as abruptly. This could hint at the fragility and volatility of these strands of tradition and the groups who keep them. Between 4300 and 3500 BCE, there was a multitude of types, groups of copper compositions and isotope ratios. Arsenic plays an essential role in the composition of copper during this time. Such arsenic-enriched copper is generally referred to as ‘arsenic copper’. It is likely that a considerable share of the raw material used in arsenic copper from this first heyday of copper metallurgy originates from the Slovak or Saxon-Bohemian Ore Mountains. Nevertheless, it seems likely that arsenic copper was at least partially cast locally in the pile dwelling of the Prealps and forged into the shapes known from these areas. According to our analyses, the raw material of some of the objects found in the Swiss Prealps, whether they are arsenic copper or not, could also stem from the eastern Alpine region. Concentrations of crucible and axe blade finds are not necessarily evidence for ore deposits in close proximity, as was assumed in the case of Mondsee and Attersee; these finds could also be indicative of local salt sources, with the salt being exchanged for copper from other areas. The copper of the flanged axe blades from the last quarter of the 4th millennium BCE found mainly south of the Alps—in isolation also north of the Alps—is very similar to the early arsenic copper mentioned above. The axe blades’ distribution patterns and the ‘fingerprint’ of their lead isotope ratios suggest that this later arsenic copper has its origin in the metallurgical centres in South Tuscany. These innovations from the West Mediterranean inspired the metallurgical traditions in the South of France (e.g. Cabrières, Montagne Noire) and the south-western Alps (Massifs des Grandes Rousses, Saint Véran).Save to LibraryDownloadby Eda  Gross and +6Samuel van WilligenGishan F. SchaerenRegula Steinhauser-ZimmermannThomas ReitmaierPierre  PétrequinEbbe Nielsen•  16  Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Corded Ware Culture, Early Bronze Age (Archaeology), Copper extraction and productionFigurines in Pietrele: Copper Age ideologySave to LibraryDownloadby Svend Hansen•  15  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic ArchaeologyLa Metalurgia. La revolución del metal.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mercedes Murillo-Barroso•  6  Prehistoric Archaeology, Iberian Prehistory (Archaeology), Archaeometallurgy, PrehistoryIL SITO FORTIFICATO DI MEDUNO SACH DI SOTTO (PORDENONE) NEL QUADRO DELL’ENEOLITICO DEL FRIULI E DELLE REGIONI VICINE/CONTEXTUALISING COPPER AGE IN FRIULI: THE FORTIFIED SITE OF MEDUNO SACH DI SOTTO (PORDENONE) AND ITS RELATIONSHIPS WITH EASTERN REGIONSIn base ai materiali raccolti sulla superficie dei campi dagli appassionati scopritori dell’insediamento preistorico e a quelli emersi nel corso degli scavi, l’area di Meduno sembra essere stata frequentata quasi esclusivamente in un... moreIn base ai materiali raccolti sulla superficie dei campi dagli appassionati scopritori dell’insediamento preistorico e a quelli emersi nel corso degli scavi, l’area di Meduno sembra essere stata frequentata quasi esclusivamente in un periodo compreso tra l’Eneolitico e il Bronzo Antico. Ciò vale non solo per le fosse e i pozzetti indagati nella parte meridionale del terrazzo fluviale, ma anche per il terrapieno difensivo che si sviluppa a nord di queste strutture per circa 115 m di lunghezza e 6-7 m di larghezza. Le datazioni al radiocarbonio disponibili per l’abitato si collocano tra IV e III millennio a.C. La particolare configurazione di questo insediamento è conosciuta in Europa occidentale e centrale con il nome di “éperon barré” o “sperone sbarrato”, con una funzione che nel caso di Meduno può essere di rifugio legato all’esistenza di una situazione generalizzata di insicurezza o piuttosto di controllo del territorio o di una via di passaggio. La produzione ceramica consente di fare alcune considerazioni dal punto di vista culturale, valutazioni che rafforzano l’ipotesi di molti autori secondo cui i repertori ceramici eneolitici della regione Friuli Venezia Giulia troverebbero poche correlazioni con i contesti delle altre regioni dell’Italia settentrionale e maggiori affinità con quelli orientali. Vengono inoltre presentati i dati paleoeconomici e paleoambientali.According to the archaeological materials recovered in the site during the survey and excavations, the prehistoric settlement of Meduno-Sach di Sotto seems to have been inhabited almost exclusively between the Copper Age and Early Bronze Age. This is valid not only for pits which were excavated in the southern part of the fluvial terrace, but also for the defensive earthwork that lies northernmost for about 115 m of length and 6-7 m of width. The available radiocarbon dates from the site and the earthwork are distributed from the 4th to the 3rd millennium BC cal. The particular typology of this archaeological site, which is known in western and central Europe with the name of “éperon barré”, has the possible role in its territory as a shelter tied to the existence of generalised situation of insecurity or rather as a control of the territory. The pottery production allows some considerations with the cultural point of view to be made, evaluations that reinforce the hypothesis of some scholars according to which the Copper Age pottery of Friuli Venezia Giulia region would find few correlations with the ones of the other region of Northern Italy and greater affinities with the eastern regions. Palaeoenvironmental and palaeoeconomic data are also presented.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paola Visentini and +2Giovanni TascaGabriella Petrucci•  27  Prehistoric Archaeology, Paleobotany, Fortified Settlements (Archaeology), FortificationsAproximación a la ocupación calcolítica de la Sierra del Castillo- Peña Redonda: poblamiento y arte rupestre en un enclave en altura en el Valle Medio del Guadiato (Espiel, Córdoba).In this work we intent to share various rock art panels found in a small cave located in the site of Peña Redonda, next to Sierra del Castillo (Espiel, Cordoba). In the same way in order to contextualize this find, we analyze the evidence... moreIn this work we intent to share various rock art panels found in a small cave located in the site of Peña Redonda, nextto Sierra del Castillo (Espiel, Cordoba). In the same way in order to contextualize this find, we analyze the evidence of prehistoricoccupation of the surrounding territory, represented by two distinct cores, both datable around central centuries ofthe IIIrd millennium BC.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rafael Mª Martínez- Sanchez and +3Antonio Moreno RosaJuan Carlos  Vera-RodríguezMARÍA PILAR RUIZ BORREGA•  6  Rock Art (Archaeology), Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Megaliths (Archaeology)TECCHIATI U. 2015, Frühe Siedlung und Kupfermetallurgie in Südtirol: Milland bei Brixenin T. Stöllner, P. Thomas, (Hrsg.), Bergauf Bergab – 10.000 Jahre Bergbau in den Ostalpen, Begleitbuch zur Ausstellung im Deutschen Bergbau-Museum Bochum vom 31.10.2015 - 24.04.2016; Im Vorarlberg Museum Bregenz vom 11.06.2016 -... morein T. Stöllner, P. Thomas, (Hrsg.), Bergauf Bergab – 10.000 Jahre Bergbau in den Ostalpen, Begleitbuch zur Ausstellung im Deutschen Bergbau-Museum Bochum vom 31.10.2015 - 24.04.2016; Im Vorarlberg Museum Bregenz vom 11.06.2016 - 26.10.2016. Veröffentlichung aus dem Deutschen Bergbau-Museum Bochum Nr. 207, Bochum 2015, pp. 83-88Save to LibraryDownloadby Umberto Tecchiati•  8  Prehistoric Archaeology, Archaeology of Mining, Archaeometallurgy, Alpine ArchaeologyA Report on Excavation at Madarpur- A Copper Hoard SiteThe article deals with the result of the excavation at Chance Discovery site of Copper Hoard comprising of 31 Anthropomorphs. The excavation was carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India, Agra Circle under the direction of... moreThe article deals with the result of the excavation at Chance Discovery site of Copper Hoard comprising of 31 Anthropomorphs. The excavation was carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India, Agra Circle under the direction of D.V.SharmaSave to LibraryDownloadby Dr Arakhita Pradhan•  2  Prehistoric Archaeology, Copper ageTHE PROTO-BRONZE AGE CEMETERY AT DURANKULAK: A LOOK FROM THE EASTSave to LibraryDownloadby Igor  Manzura•  9  Prehistoric Archaeology, Balkan prehistory, Prehistory, TransitionМегалитический комплекс и поселения острова Веры / Megalithic complex and settlements of Vera IslandМонография посвящена публикации материалов мегалитического комплекса и поселений острова Веры на озере Тургояк в Южном Зауралье. Комплекс представлен тремя камерными мегалитами и святилищами энеолитического времени (IV–III тыс. до н. э.).... moreМонография посвящена публикации материалов мегалитического комплекса и поселений острова Веры на озере Тургояк в Южном Зауралье. Комплекс представлен тремя камерными мегалитами и святилищами энеолитического времени (IV–III тыс. до н. э.). На поселениях выявлены материалы неолита, энеолита и раннего железного века. В книге обсуждаются особенности архитектуры и строительных технологий, астрономическая ориентация сооружений, социальная организация и вопросы религии и идеологии мегалитического общества Урала. В монографии приводятся и обсуждаются различные аспекты результатов исследований европейских мегалитов, которые являются фоном и базой для многих выводов, изложенных в книге. Мегалитический комплекс на острове Веры является уникальным в силу большой концентрации объектов разного типа на небольшой территории. И этот ареал оторван от ареалов иных культур с мегалитической традицией в Европе, на Ближнем Востоке и на Кавказе. Это, а также отсутствие здесь в тот период производящего хозяйства ставит ряд новых проблем при осмыслении мегалитического феномена в целом.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yulia Vasina and +1Stanislav Grigoriev•  11  Religion, Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Neolithic ArchaeologyDate preliminare asupra cimitirului eneolitic de la Pecica-Est, judeţul AradThe recent discovery of the Early and Middle Eneolithic cemetery in Pecica-Est can generate a beneficial discussion on the multiple chronological and social implications that such a site propagates over the neighbouring region. Through... moreThe recent discovery of the Early and Middle Eneolithic cemetery in Pecica-Est can generate a beneficial discussion on the multiple chronological and social implications that such a site propagates over the neighbouring region. Through the 280 graves discovered there during three research campaigns (2015–2017), through the diverse pottery styles (Tiszapolgár, Bodrogkeresztúr, Sălcuţa) present inside the cemetery, and through the numerous and rich funerary inventories found, this funerary space represents a benchmark of the researched era. At the same time, the cemetery can be chronological connected with several contemporary settlements located nearby and investigated on different occasions. The present article groups the preliminary data obtained during the three campaigns of archaeological excavations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Victor  Sava and +1Ursutiu Adrian•  9  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Funerary Archaeology, Mortuary archaeologyUna nuova stele dell’età del Rame in Valtellina, località Piombarda, San Giovanni di Teglio (Sondrio)A new Copper Age stele from Valtellina, Piombarda locality, San Giovanni di Teglio (Sondrio). In 2016 don Mario Simonelli identified a stone slab being used as an entry platform in a rear entrance of the church of San Giovanni, in the... moreA new Copper Age stele from Valtellina, Piombarda locality, San Giovanni di Teglio (Sondrio).In 2016 don Mario Simonelli identified a stone slab being used as an entry platform in a rear entrance of thechurch of San Giovanni, in the Piombarda locality, as a Copper Age engraved stele. The slab, a block of greenstone, was probably taken from the church’s surrounding area and it was reused in the 15th century as an altartable containing the relics of the saints held in a rectangular hollow which is now filled with cement. In the 17thcentury the church was enlarged and built a new altar, at which point the stele was removed and probably placedin its current position. As being a step, the central section of the slab is heavily worn and the engravings arealmost lost. The original shape has changed, as the slab underwent various cuts, since it was first created; only oneof the short sides retains its original sub-triangular shape, representing the head and shoulder line of ananthropomorphic figure. In 2017 an initial tracing was made, this was subsequently rechecked on variousoccasions. Despite the difficulty in identifying the images, due to the complexity of the engravings and thenumerous overlapping figures, it was possible to distinguish 9 different phases, 8 belonging to phase III A1(3000-2500 BC) and one probably to phase III A2 (2500-2200 BC).The first four phases include female compositions dating back to phase III A1, whith the typical ornamentsof the diadem with three bands. Once referred to as the three-rayed sun, this motif is typical in female stele inValtellina and is usually composed of three circles in the upper part of the stele, with the central one (thediadem) larger than the other two on the sides (the earrings). The 1st phase of Piombarda 1 shows only a few linesof the right portion of the band and some lines of the necklace, and since the upper part of the stele iscompletely missing, the motif of the diadem can no longer be observed in its entirety. Also to be associated withthis phase are some short curvilinear sections at the base of the necklace, perhaps what remains of a doublespiral pendant. In the 2nd phase the most recognizable figures are those of a U-shaped necklace, composed of adozen threads, and of some lateral lines pertinent to what remains of the bands of the diadem motif. On theleft, next to the collar, three horizontal lines are possibly what remains of a comb figure.A pendant that overlaps the motif of the necklace of phase 2 can be attributed to a 3rd phase. At this pointit seems that the stele’s upper section has been cut where we can now see the pattern of the almost completethree-band diadem belonging to the 4th phase. In the absence of overlaps almost all double-spiral pendants(except the remains of that of the first phase and the one of the third) could also be attributed to this 4th phase.The assignment of the pendants to one or the other phase in fact remains problematic. In the 5th phase the steleis turned upside down and the upper section shaped to accommodate a masculine composition of which we canobserve a solar circle, an ax and an halberd, three Remedello-type daggers, one of which in the sheath, and a beltcomposed of 8/9 horizontal lines. Two animals engraved on the left and in the centre could also belong to thisphase. In the 6th phase the stele returns to a female composition represented by three double spiral pendants atthe top center. Associated with these could be two combs placed on the right and on the left of the pendants.The 7th phase presents again the motif of the diadem with three incomplete bands. Due to the poor state ofconservation of this portion of the stele, apart from the diadem with the earrings, only the two lateral bandsarevisible. In phase 8, a large double spiral pendant has been engraved, which obliterates most of the three-banddiadem motif, and another comb is placed above the left earring. Phase 9 is only represented by two female deerfigures engraved in the central section of the stele, depicted with a certain dynamism, a characteristic usuallyfound in the zoomorphic figures of phase III A2, to which these figures can be attributed. Some small cup markscan be attributed to this phase or to a later time.Piombarda 1 is the first stele of Valtellina where the phenomenon of the rotation of the stele can beobserved, an aspect already found in some monuments of Valcamonica. In this stele we can also observe therepeated change of gender, a phenomenon already known in Valcamonica and observed in Valtellina on theCaven 1 and 2 monuments for the first time. This stele contributes to the body of knowledge on stele in theregion and on the changes and adaptation that occurred during the different phases detected.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefania Casini•  6  Copper age, Età Del Rame, Statues menhirs, Statue SteleKvassay J., Kreiter A. 2019. Régészeti Kutatások Magyarországon 2013 – Archaeological Investigations in Hungary 2013The previous volumes of Archaeological Investigations in Hungary are also available here: https://archeodatabase.hnm.hu/en/rkmSave to LibraryDownloadby Attila Kreiter•  13  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Palaeolithic Archaeology, Mesolithic ArchaeologyTim Kerig: Ein Statuenmenhir mit Darstellung einer Axt vom Eschollbrückener Typ? Zu einem enigmatischen Steindenkmal aus Gelnhausen-Meerholz (Mainz-Kinzig-Kreis). In: Prähistorische Zeitschrift, Bd. 85 (2010), 59–78Save to LibraryDownloadby Tim Kerig•  6  Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Prehistoric Settlement, Corded Ware CultureNextLast »Related TopicsNeolithic & Chalcolithic ArchaeologyFollowFollowingBronze Age Europe (Archaeology)FollowFollowingNeolithic ArchaeologyFollowFollowingEarly Bronze Age (Archaeology)FollowFollowingPrehistoric ArchaeologyFollowFollowingNeolithic EuropeFollowFollowingChalcolithic ArchaeologyFollowFollowingBronze Age (Archaeology)FollowFollowingMediterranean prehistoryFollowFollowingLate Bronze Age archaeologyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023