First China-Malaysia joint military exercise held in Malacca Strait
16 captures
31 Mar 2016 - 07 Apr 2023
Mar
OCT
Jan
01
2016
2018
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Live Web Proxy Crawls
  Content crawled via the Wayback Machine Live Proxy mostly by the Save Page Now feature on web.archive.org.

Liveweb proxy is a component of Internet Archive’s wayback machine project. The liveweb proxy captures the content of a web page in real time, archives it into a ARC or WARC file and returns the ARC/WARC record back to the wayback machine to process. The recorded ARC/WARC file becomes part of the wayback machine in due course of time.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20181001184454/http://eng.mod.gov.cn/DefenseNews/2015-09/17/content_4620894.htm
ALL
Armed Forces
Ministry
Home Picture
Top News
Defense News
Press Briefings
Opinion
international Military
Military Exchanges
Military Exercises
Peacekeeping
Defense Policy
Leadership
White Papers
Laws and Regulations
About PLA
Military Figures
Military History
Military Academies
Defense Expenditure
Defense Technology
Defense Mobilization
Regional Cooperation
Arms Control and Disarmament
Military Operations Other Than War
Special Reports
Piczine
Video
Photos
You’re at:
News Channels>> Defense News
          First China-Malaysia joint military exercise held in Malacca Strait
        
( Source:
          China Military Online
           )    
                2015-September-17 17:07
          
　　BEIJING, Sept. 17 (ChinaMil) -- China and Malaysia will conduct the "Peace and Friendship-2015" joint military exercise, the first of its kind between the two countries, in the Strait of Malacca and its surrounding waters from September 17 to September 22, 2015, according to the annual exchange program between the militaries of China and Malaysia.
　　The theme of this exercise is "to jointly perform the Military Operations Other Than War (MOOTW)", and the subjects include joint escort, joint rescue, saving hijacked vessels jointly, actual use of real weapons, humanitarian aid and disaster relief operations.
　　The purpose of this exercise is to deepen the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Malaysia, strengthen military-to-military defense exchanges and cooperation, and increase the capability to jointly respond to real security threats and safeguard regional maritime security.
　　Military expert Li Jie said in an interview that the triphibian cooperation is of strong practical significance in such fields as anti-piracy and humanitarian aid, and is also a kind of trend in the future joint military exercises. This shows that the cooperation between both sides is not limited to maritime cooperation.
　　China and Malaysia have increased military cooperation in recent years. A Naval military expert Zhang Junshe pointed out that the joint military exercise this time shows that both sides' common aspiration to strengthen bilateral and military-to-military cooperation and helps enhance strategic mutual trust.
　　China and Malaysia held the first defense and security consultation as early as September 2012. China and Malaysia also conducted a joint military exercise codenamed "Peace and Friendship-2014" in December 2014, the first of its kind in the history of the two countries, but was only a table top exercise.
　　Both sides conducted the map exercise on such subjects as joint escort, joint rescue, saving hijacked vessels jointly, humanitarian aid and disaster relief, and exchanged the mechanism and experience concerning the military’s involvement in humanitarian aid and disaster relief operations.
　　The upcoming joint military exercise this time, in particular, is a historical breakthrough in the bilateral military relations. It is not only the first realistic joint exercise between China and Malaysia, but also the largest bilateral joint military exercise between China and an ASEAN country.
　　Military expert Song Xiaojun said that joint exercises in the field of non-traditional security issues will become a normal in the ASEAN region in the future.
　　Malaysia needs to cooperate with China in an all-round way to maintain regional security through military exercises, ultimately maintain trade relations, and thus resolve its core domestic issues such as employment and economy.
　　This exercise chooses the Strait of Malacca as the exercise location, which has attracted equal attention.
　　It is known to all that with its strategic value, the Strait of Malacca is an important watercourse that both the U.S. and Japan want to control. Some countries speculate whether China has other attempts this time.
　　Liang Yang, spokesperson for the PLA Navy, said that this exercise does not target any third party, nor does it pertain to the regional situation.
　　In the eyes of Teng Jianqun, researcher with China Institute of International Studies, this exercise manifests China's determination and confidence of maintaining stability in the South China Sea.
　　Li Jie said that previously the U.S. had been emphasizing the fact that the water channels in the South China Sea are unsafe, and therefore China cooperates with the surrounding countries in such aspects as anti-terrorism and rescue in order to better maintain regional peace and seaway safety and better shoulder its responsibilities as a great power.
　　BEIJING, Sept. 17 (ChinaMil) -- China and Malaysia will conduct the "Peace and Friendship-2015" joint military exercise, the first of its kind between the two countries, in the Strait of Malacca and its surrounding waters from September 17 to September 22, 2015, according to the annual exchange program between the militaries of China and Malaysia.
　　The theme of this exercise is "to jointly perform the Military Operations Other Than War (MOOTW)", and the subjects include joint escort, joint rescue, saving hijacked vessels jointly, actual use of real weapons, humanitarian aid and disaster relief operations.
　　The purpose of this exercise is to deepen the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Malaysia, strengthen military-to-military defense exchanges and cooperation, and increase the capability to jointly respond to real security threats and safeguard regional maritime security.
　　Military expert Li Jie said in an interview that the triphibian cooperation is of strong practical significance in such fields as anti-piracy and humanitarian aid, and is also a kind of trend in the future joint military exercises. This shows that the cooperation between both sides is not limited to maritime cooperation.
　　China and Malaysia have increased military cooperation in recent years. A Naval military expert Zhang Junshe pointed out that the joint military exercise this time shows that both sides' common aspiration to strengthen bilateral and military-to-military cooperation and helps enhance strategic mutual trust.
　　China and Malaysia held the first defense and security consultation as early as September 2012. China and Malaysia also conducted a joint military exercise codenamed "Peace and Friendship-2014" in December 2014, the first of its kind in the history of the two countries, but was only a table top exercise.
　　Both sides conducted the map exercise on such subjects as joint escort, joint rescue, saving hijacked vessels jointly, humanitarian aid and disaster relief, and exchanged the mechanism and experience concerning the military’s involvement in humanitarian aid and disaster relief operations.
　　The upcoming joint military exercise this time, in particular, is a historical breakthrough in the bilateral military relations. It is not only the first realistic joint exercise between China and Malaysia, but also the largest bilateral joint military exercise between China and an ASEAN country.
　　Military expert Song Xiaojun said that joint exercises in the field of non-traditional security issues will become a normal in the ASEAN region in the future.
　　Malaysia needs to cooperate with China in an all-round way to maintain regional security through military exercises, ultimately maintain trade relations, and thus resolve its core domestic issues such as employment and economy.
　　This exercise chooses the Strait of Malacca as the exercise location, which has attracted equal attention.
　　It is known to all that with its strategic value, the Strait of Malacca is an important watercourse that both the U.S. and Japan want to control. Some countries speculate whether China has other attempts this time.
　　Liang Yang, spokesperson for the PLA Navy, said that this exercise does not target any third party, nor does it pertain to the regional situation.
　　In the eyes of Teng Jianqun, researcher with China Institute of International Studies, this exercise manifests China's determination and confidence of maintaining stability in the South China Sea.
　　Li Jie said that previously the U.S. had been emphasizing the fact that the water channels in the South China Sea are unsafe, and therefore China cooperates with the surrounding countries in such aspects as anti-terrorism and rescue in order to better maintain regional peace and seaway safety and better shoulder its responsibilities as a great power.
 Editor : 
            Yao Jianing
                    