Maltese language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
2Demographics
3Classification
4Dialects
5Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
5.1Consonants
5.2Vowels
5.3Stress
5.4Historical phonology
6Orthography
Toggle Orthography subsection
6.1Alphabet
6.2Written Maltese
6.3Samples
7Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
7.1Romance
7.2Siculo-Arabic
7.3Berber
7.4English
7.5Calendar
7.6Time
7.7Question words
8Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
8.1Adjectives and adverbs
8.2Nouns
8.2.1Derivation
8.3Article
8.4Verbs
9Media
10Code-switching
11See also
12Footnotes
13Notes
14References
15Further reading
16External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Maltese language
127 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛअंगिकाالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAvañe'ẽAzərbaycancaবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàCebuanoČeštinaCorsuCymraegDanskالدارجةDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEmiliàn e rumagnòlЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGaelgGagauzGàidhligGalego한국어ՀայերենHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliКомиLadinoLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLa .lojban.LombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMaltiमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlandsNedersaksies日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNovialOccitanਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaRomânăRuna SimiРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaqbaylitТатарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVènetoVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVõroWalonWinaray吴语ייִדיש粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Semitic language spoken mostly in Malta
MalteseMaltiPublication by Għaqda Tal-Kittieba Tal-Malti in 1925Pronunciation[ˈmɐltɪ]Native toMaltaEthnicityMalteseNative speakers530,000 (2012)[1]Language familyAfro-Asiatic
SemiticWest SemiticCentral SemiticArabicMaghrebi ArabicSiculo-ArabicMalteseEarly formSiculo-Arabic
Dialects
Cottonera
Gozitan
Qormi
Żejtuni
Australian
Central
Western
Eastern
Zurrieq
Port Maltese
Corfiot †
Xlukkajr
Qawsra †
Writing systemLatin (Maltese alphabet)Maltese BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language inMaltaEuropean UnionRegulated byNational Council for the Maltese LanguageIl-Kunsill Nazzjonali tal-Ilsien MaltiLanguage codesISO 639-1mtISO 639-2mltISO 639-3mltGlottologmalt1254Linguasphere12-AAC-cThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
A Maltese speaker, recorded in Malta
Maltese (Maltese: Malti, also L-Ilsien Malti or Il-Lingwa Maltija) is a Semitic language derived from late medieval Sicilian Arabic with Romance superstrata spoken by the Maltese people. It is the national language of Malta[2] and the only official Semitic and Afro-Asiatic language of the European Union. Maltese is a Latinised variety of spoken historical Arabic through its descent from Siculo-Arabic, which developed as a Maghrebi Arabic dialect in the Emirate of Sicily between 831 and 1091.[3] As a result of the Norman invasion of Malta and the subsequent re-Christianisation of the islands, Maltese evolved independently of Classical Arabic in a gradual process of latinisation.[4][5] It is therefore exceptional as a variety of historical Arabic that has no diglossic relationship with Classical or Modern Standard Arabic.[6] Maltese is thus classified separately from the 30 varieties constituting the modern Arabic macrolanguage. Maltese is also distinguished from Arabic and other Semitic languages since its morphology has been deeply influenced by Romance languages, namely Italian and Sicilian.[7]
The original Arabic base comprises around one-third of the Maltese vocabulary, especially words that denote basic ideas and the function words,[8] but about half of the vocabulary is derived from standard Italian and Sicilian;[9] and English words make up between 6% and 20% of the vocabulary.[10] A 2016 study shows that, in terms of basic everyday language, speakers of Maltese are able to understand around a third of what is said to them in Tunisian Arabic and Libyan Arabic,[11] which are Maghrebi Arabic dialects related to Siculo-Arabic,[12] whereas speakers of Tunisian Arabic and Libyan Arabic are able to understand about 40% of what is said to them in Maltese.[13] This reported level of asymmetric intelligibility is considerably lower than the mutual intelligibility found between other varieties of Arabic.[14]
Maltese has always been written in the Latin script, the earliest surviving example dating from the late Middle Ages.[15] It is the only standardised Semitic language written exclusively in the Latin script.[16]
History[edit]
See also: History of Malta
Oldest Maltese text: Il-Kantilena by Pietru Caxaro, 15th century
The origins of the Maltese language are attributed to the arrival, early in the 11th century, of settlers from neighbouring Sicily, where Siculo-Arabic was spoken, reversing the Fatimid Caliphate's conquest of the island at the end of the 9th century.[17] This claim has been corroborated by genetic studies, which show that contemporary Maltese people share common ancestry with Sicilians and Calabrians, with little genetic input from North Africa and the Levant.[18][19]
The Norman conquest in 1091, followed by the expulsion of the Muslims—complete by 1249—permanently isolated the vernacular from its Arabic source, creating the conditions for its evolution into a distinct language.[17] In contrast to Sicily—where Siculo-Arabic became extinct and was replaced by Sicilian—the vernacular in Malta continued to develop alongside Italian, eventually replacing it as official language in 1934 – alongside English.[17] The first written reference to the Maltese language is in a will of 1436, where it is called lingua maltensi. The oldest known document in Maltese, Il-Kantilena (Xidew il-Qada) by Pietru Caxaro, dates from the 15th century.[20]
The earliest known Maltese dictionary was a 16th-century manuscript entitled "Maltese-Italiano"; it was included in the Biblioteca Maltese of Mifsud in 1764, but is now lost.[21] A list of Maltese words was included in both the Thesaurus Polyglottus (1603) and Propugnaculum Europae (1606) of Hieronymus Megiser, who had visited Malta in 1588–1589; Domenico Magri gave the etymologies of some Maltese words in his Hierolexicon, sive sacrum dictionarium (1677).[20]
An early manuscript dictionary, Dizionario Italiano e Maltese, was discovered in the Biblioteca Vallicelliana in Rome in the 1980s, together with a grammar, the Regole per la Lingua Maltese, attributed to a French Knight named Thezan.[21][22] The first systematic lexicon is that of Giovanni Pietro Francesco Agius de Soldanis, who also wrote the first systematic grammar of the language and proposed a standard orthography.[21]
Demographics[edit]
Ethnologue reports a total of 530,000 Maltese speakers: 450,000 in Malta and 79,000 in the diaspora. Most speakers also use English.[1]
The largest diaspora community of Maltese speakers is in Australia, with 36,000 speakers reported in 2006 (down from 45,000 in 1996, and expected to decline further).[23]
The Maltese linguistic community in Tunisia originated in the 18th century. Numbering several thousand in the 19th century, it was reported to be only 100 to 200 people as of 2017.[24]
Classification[edit]
Maltese is descended from Siculo-Arabic, a Semitic language within the Afroasiatic family,[25] that in the course of its history has been influenced by Sicilian and Italian, to a lesser extent French, and more recently English. Today, the core vocabulary (including both the most commonly used vocabulary and function words) is Semitic, with large numbers of loanwords.[9] Because of the Sicilian influence on Siculo-Arabic, Maltese has many language contact features and is most commonly described as a language with a large number of loanwords.[26]
The Maltese language has historically been classified in various ways, with some claiming that the ancient Punic language (another Semitic language) was its origin instead of Siculo-Arabic,[20][27][28] while others believed the language to be one of the Berber languages (another family within Afroasiatic),.[20] The Fascist Kingdom of Italy classified it as regional Italian.[29]
Dialects[edit]
Main articles: Żejtun dialect, Qormi dialect, Cottonera dialect, and Maltralian
SIL International, a Christian missionary organization, reports six varieties, besides Standard Maltese: Gozo, Port Maltese, Rural Central Maltese, Rural East Maltese, Rural West Maltese, and Zurrieq.[citation needed]
Urban varieties of Maltese are closer to Standard Maltese than rural varieties,[30] which have some characteristics that distinguish them from Standard Maltese.
They tend to show some archaic features[30] such as the realisation of ⟨kh⟩ and ⟨gh⟩ and the imāla of Arabic ā into ē (or ī especially in Gozo), considered archaic because they are reminiscent of 15th-century transcriptions of this sound.[30] Another archaic feature is the realisation of Standard Maltese ā as ō in rural dialects.[30]
There is also a tendency to diphthongise simple vowels, e.g., ū becomes eo or eu.[30]
Rural dialects also tend to employ more Semitic roots and broken plurals than Standard Maltese.[30] In general, rural Maltese is less distant from its Siculo-Arabic ancestor than is Standard Maltese.[30]
Phonology[edit]
Consonants[edit]
Consonant phonemes[31][32]
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Pharyngeal
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
Plosive
p
b
t
d
k
ɡ
ʔ
Affricate
t͡s
d͡z
t͡ʃ
d͡ʒ
Fricative
f
v
s
z
ʃ
ʒ
ħ
Trill
r
Approximant
l
j
w
Vassalli's Storja tas-Sultân Ċiru (1831), is an example of Maltese orthography in the 19th century, before the later standardisation introduced in 1924. Note the similarities with the various varieties of romanized Arabic.
Voiceless stops are only lightly aspirated and voiced stops are fully voiced. Voicing is carried over from the last segment in obstruent clusters; thus, two- and three-obstruent clusters are either voiceless or voiced throughout, e.g. /niktbu/ is realised [ˈniɡdbu] "we write" (similar assimilation phenomena occur in languages like French or Czech). Maltese has final-obstruent devoicing of voiced obstruents and voiceless stops have no audible release, making voiceless–voiced pairs phonetically indistinguishable.[33]
Gemination is distinctive word-medially and word-finally in Maltese. The distinction is most rigid intervocalically after a stressed vowel. Stressed, word-final closed syllables with short vowels end in a long consonant, and those with a long vowel in a single consonant; the only exception is where historic *ʕ and *ɣ meant the compensatory lengthening of the succeeding vowel. Some speakers have lost length distinction in clusters.[34]
The two nasals /m/ and /n/ assimilate for place of articulation in clusters.[35] /t/ and /d/ are usually dental, whereas /t͡s d͡z s z n r l/ are all alveolar. /t͡s d͡z/ are found mostly in words of Italian origin, retaining length (if not word-initial).[36] /d͡z/ and /ʒ/ are only found in loanwords, e.g. /ɡad͡zd͡zɛtta/ "newspaper" and /tɛlɛˈviʒin/ "television".[37] The pharyngeal fricative /ħ/ is velar ([x]), uvular ([χ]), or glottal ([h]) for some speakers.[38]
Vowels[edit]
Maltese has five short vowels, /ɐ ɛ ɪ ɔ ʊ/, written a e i o u; six long vowels, /ɐː ɛː ɪː iː ɔː ʊː/, written a, e, ie, i, o, u, all of which (with the exception of ie /ɪː/) can be known to represent long vowels in writing only if they are followed by an orthographic għ or h (otherwise, one needs to know the pronunciation; e.g. nar (fire) is pronounced /naːr/); and seven diphthongs, /ɐɪ ɐʊ ɛɪ ɛʊ ɪʊ ɔɪ ɔʊ/, written aj or għi, aw or għu, ej or għi, ew, iw, oj, and ow or għu.[4]
Stress[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Stress is generally on the penultimate syllable, unless some other syllable is heavy (has a long vowel or final consonant), or unless a stress-shifting suffix is added. (Suffixes marking gender, possession, and verbal plurals do not cause the stress to shift).[clarification needed] Historically when vowel a and u were long or stressed they were written as â or û, for example in the word baħħâr (sailor) to differentiate from baħħar (to sail), but nowadays these accents are mostly omitted.
When two syllables are equally heavy, the penultimate takes the stress, but otherwise the heavier syllable does, e.g. bajjad [ˈbɐj.jɐt] 'he painted' vs bajjad [bɐj.ˈjɐːt] 'a painter'.
Historical phonology[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The original Arabic consonant system has undergone partial collapse under European influence, with many Classical Arabic consonants having undergone mergers and modifications in Maltese:
Classical Arabic
ت /t/
ث /θ/
ط /tˤ/
د /d/
ض /dˤ/
ذ /ð/
ظ /ðˤ/
س /s/
ص /sˤ/
ح /ħ/
خ /χ/
ع /ʕ/
غ /ɣ/
ق /q/
ه /h/
Maltese
/t/
/d/
/s/
/ħ/
/ʕ/
/ʔ~k/
not pronounced
Orthography[edit]
Alphabet[edit]
This section needs editing for compliance with Wikipedia's Manual of Style. In particular, it has problems with punctuation and text styling in the table. Please help improve it if you can. (October 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Main articles: Maltese alphabet and Maltese Braille
The modern system of Maltese orthography was introduced in 1924.[39]
Below is the Maltese alphabet, with IPA symbols and approximate English pronunciation:
Letter
Name
IPA (Alphabet Name(s))
Maltese example
IPA (orthographically representing)
Approximate English pronunciation
 A a
a
aː
anġlu (angel)
ɐ, aː, æː
similar to 'u' in nut in RP; [aː] similar to father in Irish English; [æː] similar to cat in American English, in some dialects it may be [ɒː] in some locations as in what in some American English Dialects
 B b 
be
beː
ballun (ball)
b
bar, but at the end of a word it is devoiced to [p].
 Ċ ċ 
ċe
t͡ʃeː
ċavetta (key)
t͡ʃ
church (note: undotted 'c' has been replaced by 'k', so when 'c' does appear, it is to be spoken the same way as 'ċ')
 D d 
de
deː
dar (home)
d
day, but at the end of a word it is devoiced to [t].
 E e 
e
eː
envelopp (envelope)
eː, ɛ, øː, ə
[e:] somewhat like face in Northern England English [ɛ] end when short, it is often changed to [øː, œ] when following and more often when followed by a w, when at the end in an unstressed syllable it is pronounced as schwa [ə, Vᵊ] comma
 F f 
effe
ɛf(ː)ᵊ
fjura (flower)
f
far
 Ġ ġ 
ġe
d͡ʒøː
ġelat (ice cream)
d͡ʒ
gem, but at the end of a word it is devoiced to [tʃ].
 G g 
ge
geː
gallettina (biscuit)
ɡ
game, but at the end of a word it is devoiced to [k].
 GĦ għ 
ajn
ajn, æːn
għasfur (bird)
(ˤ)ː, ħː
has the effect of lengthening and pharyngealising associated vowels (għi and għu are [i̞(ˤ)j] (may be transcribed as [ə(ˤ)j]) and [oˤ]). When found at the end of a word or immediately before 'h' it has the sound of a double 'ħ' (see below).
 H h 
akka
ak(ː)ɐ
hu (he)
not pronounced unless it is at the end of a word, in which case it has the sound of 'ħ'.
 Ħ ħ 
ħe
ħeː, heː, xe:
ħanut (shop)
ħ
no English equivalent; sounds similar to /h/ but is articulated with a lowered larynx.
 I i 
i
iː
ikel (food)
i̞ː, iː, ɪ
[i̞ː] bite (the way commonly realized in Irish English or [iː] in other words as beet but more forward) and when short as [ɪ] bit, occasionally 'i' is used to display il-vokali tal-leħen(the vowel of the voice) as in words like l-iskola or l-iMdina ,in this case it takes the schwa sound.
 IE ie 
ie
iːᵊ, ɛː
ieqaf (stop)
ɛː, iːᵊ
sounds similar to yield or RP near, or opened up slightly towards bed or RP square
 J j 
je
jə, jæ, jɛ
jum (day)
j
yard
 K k 
ke
kə, kæ, kɛ
kelb (dog)
k
kettle
 L l 
elle
ɛl(ː)ᵊ
libsa (dress)
l
line
 M m 
emme
ɛm(ː)ᵊ
mara (woman)
m
march
 N n 
enne
ɛn(ː)ᵊ
nanna (granny)
n
next
 O o 
o
oː
ors (bear)
o, ɔ, ɒ
[o] as in somewhere between  similar to Scottish English o in no [ɔ] like 'aw' in RP law, but short or [ɒ] as in water in some American dialects.
 P p 
pe
peː, pə
paġna (page, sheet)
p
part
 Q q 
qe
ʔø, ʔ(ʷ)ɛ, ʔ(ʷ)æ, ʔ(ʷ)ə
qattus (cat)
ʔ
glottal stop, found in the Cockney English pronunciation of "bottle" or the phrase "uh-oh" /ʔʌʔoʊ/.
 R r 
erre
ɛɹ(ː)ᵊ, æɹ(:)ᵊ, ɚ(ː)ᵊ or ɛr(ː)ᵊ, ær(:)ᵊ, ər(ː)ᵊ
re (king)
r, ɹ
[r] as in General American English butter, or ɹ road (r realization changes depending on dialect or location in the word.)
 S s 
esse
ɛs(ː)ᵊ
sliem (peace)
s
sand
 T t 
te
teː
tieqa (window)
t
tired
 U u 
u
uː, ʉ
uviera (egg cup)
u, ʉ, ʊ
[u] as in General American English boot or in some dialects it may be realized as [ʉ] as in some American English realizations of student, short u is [ʊ] put
 V v 
ve
vøː, veː, və
vjola (violet)
v
vast, but at the end of a word it is devoiced to [f] may be said as [w] in the word Iva(yes) sometimes this is just written as Iwa.
 W w 
ve doppja /u doppja/we
vedɒp(ː)jɐ, uːdɒp(ː)jɐ, wøː
widna (ear)
w
west
 X x 
xe
ʃə, ʃøː
xadina (monkey)
ʃ / ʒ
shade, sometimes as measure; when doubled the sound is elongated, as in "Cash shin" vs. "Cash in".
 Ż ż 
że/żeta
zə, zø:, ze:t(ɐ)
żarbun  (shoe)
z
maze, but at the end of a word it is devoiced to [s].
 Z z 
ze
t͡sə, t͡søː, t͡seːt(ɐ)
zalza (sauce)
t͡s / d͡z
pizza
Final vowels with grave accents (à, è, ì, ò, ù) are also found in some Maltese words of Italian origin, such as libertà ("freedom"), sigurtà (old Italian: sicurtà, "security"), or soċjetà (Italianː società, "society").
The official rules governing the structure of the Maltese language are recorded in the official guidebook Tagħrif fuq il-Kitba Maltija (English: Knowledge on Writing in Maltese) issued by the Akkademja tal-Malti (Academy of the Maltese language). The first edition of this book was printed in 1924 by the Maltese government's printing press. The rules were further expanded in the 1984 book, iż-Żieda mat-Tagħrif, which focused mainly on the increasing influence of Romance and English words. In 1992 the academy issued the Aġġornament tat-Tagħrif fuq il-Kitba Maltija, which updated the previous works.[40] All these works were included in a revised and expanded guidebook published in 1996.[citation needed]
The National Council for the Maltese Language (KNM) is the main regulator of the Maltese language (see Maltese Language Act, below). However, the academy's orthography rules are still valid and official.
Written Maltese[edit]
Since Maltese evolved after the Italo-Normans ended Arab rule of the islands, a written form of the language was not developed for a long time after the Arabs' expulsion in the middle of the thirteenth century. Under the rule of the Knights Hospitaller, both French and Italian were used for official documents and correspondence. During the British colonial period, the use of English was encouraged through education, with Italian being regarded as the next-most important language.
In the late 18th century and throughout the 19th century, philologists and academics such as Mikiel Anton Vassalli made a concerted effort to standardise written Maltese. Many examples of written Maltese exist from before this period, always in the Latin alphabet, Il-Kantilena from the 15th century being the earliest example of written Maltese. In 1934, Maltese was recognised as an official language.
Samples[edit]
The Maltese language has a tendency to have both Semitic vocabulary and also vocabulary derived from Romance languages, primarily Italian. Words such as tweġiba (Arab origin) and risposta (Italian origin) have the same meaning (answer) but can be and are both used in Maltese. Below are two versions of the same translations, one in vocabulary derived mostly from Semitic root words while the other uses Romance loanwords (from the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, see p. 17):
English
Maltese (Semitic vocabulary)
Maltese (Romance vocabulary)
The Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values are common to the Member States in a society in which pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail.
L-Għaqda hija mibnija fuq is-siwi ta' għadir għall-ġieħ il-bniedem, ta' ħelsien, ta' għażil il-ġemgħa, ta' ndaqs bejn il-ġnus, tas-saltna tad-dritt[a] u tal-għadir għall-ħaqq tal-bniedem, wkoll il-ħaqq ta' wħud li huma f'minoranzi.[b] Dan is-siwi huwa mqassam bejn il-Pajjiżi[c] Msieħba, f'nies li tħaddan il-kotrija, li ma tgħejjibx, li ddann, li tgħaqqad u li tiżen indaqs in-nisa u l-irġiel.
L-Unjoni hija bbażata fuq il-valuri tar-rispett għad-dinjità tal-bniedem, il-libertà, id-demokrazija, l-ugwaljanza, l-istat tad-dritt u r-rispett għad-drittijiet tal-bniedem, inklużi d-drittijiet ta' persuni li jagħmlu parti minn minoranzi. Dawn il-valuri huma komuni għall-Istati Membri f'soċjetà fejn jipprevalu l-pluraliżmu, in-non-diskriminazzjoni, it-tolleranza, il-ġustizzja, is-solidarjetà u l-ugwaljanza bejn in-nisa u l-irġiel.
Below is the Lord's Prayer in Maltese compared to other Semitic languages (Arabic and Syriac) which cognates highlighted:
English
Maltese[41]
Arabic (Romanised)[42]
Syriac (Romanised)[43]
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth, as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us;
and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
Amen
Missierna, li inti fis-smewwiet, jitqaddes ismek, tiġi saltnatek, ikun li trid int, kif fis-sema, hekkda fl-art.
Ħobżna ta' kuljum agħtina llum. Aħfrilna dnubietna, bħalma naħfru lil min hu ħati għalina.
U la ddaħħalniex fit-tiġrib, iżda eħlisna mid-deni.
Ammen
Abana, alathie fi asamawat, li yatakadas ismok, li ya’atie malakotok, litakon mashia tok, kama fisama’ kathaleka ala al ard.
A’atinia khubzana kafafa yawmina, wa igfer lana khatayana, kama nahnu naghfer la man akhta’a elayna.
Wa la tudkhilna fit a jareeb, laken najjina min ashireer.
Amin
Abun, d-bashmayo, nithqadash shmokh, tithe malkuthokh, nehwe sebyonokh aykano d-bashmayo oph bar`o.
hab lan lahmo d-sunqonan yowmono washbuq lan hawbayn wahtohayn
aykano doph hnan shbaqan l-hayobayn lo ta`lan l-nesyuno elo paso lan men bisho
Amin
Vocabulary[edit]
Although the original vocabulary of the language was Siculo-Arabic, it has incorporated a large number of borrowings from Romance sources of influence (Sicilian, Italian, and French) and, more recently, Germanic ones (from English).[44]
The historical source of modern Maltese vocabulary is 52% Italian/Sicilian, 32% Siculo-Arabic, and 6% English, with some of the remainder being French.[9][45] Today, most function words are Semitic, so despite only making up about a third, they are the most used among Maltese people when conversing. In this way, it is similar to English, which is a Germanic language that had large influence from Norman French and Latin (58% of English vocabulary). As a result of this, Romance language-speakers may easily be able to comprehend more technical ideas expressed in Maltese, such as "Ġeografikament, l-Ewropa hi parti tas-superkontinent ta' l-Ewrasja" (Geographically, Europe is part of the Supercontinent of Eurasia), while not understanding a single word of a more basic sentence such as "Ir-raġel qiegħed fid-dar" (The man is in the house), which would be easily understood by any Arabic speaker.
Romance[edit]
An analysis of the etymology of the 41,000 words in Aquilina's Maltese-English Dictionary shows that words of Romance origin make up 52% of the Maltese vocabulary,[9] although other sources claim from as low as 40%,[10] to as high as 55%. This vocabulary tends to deal with more complex concepts. They are mostly derived from Sicilian and thus exhibit Sicilian phonetic characteristics, such as /u/ in place of /o/, and /i/ in place of /e/ (e.g. tiatru not teatro and fidi not fede). Also, as with Old Sicilian, /ʃ/ (English 'sh') is written 'x' and this produces spellings such as: ambaxxata /ambaʃːaːta/ ('embassy'), xena /ʃeːna/ ('scene' cf. Italian ambasciata, scena).
Maltese
Sicilian
Italian
English
skola
scola
scuola
school
gvern
cuvernu
governo
government
repubblika
ripùbblica
repubblica
republic
re
re
re
king (Germanic)
natura
natura
natura
nature
pulizija
pulizzìa
polizia
police
ċentru
centru
centro
centre
teatru
tiatru
teatro
theatre
A tendency in modern Maltese is to adopt further influences from English and Italian.
Complex Latinate English words adopted into Maltese are often given Italianate or Sicilianate forms,[9] even if the resulting words do not appear in either of those languages. For instance, the words "evaluation", "industrial action", and "chemical armaments" become "evalwazzjoni", "azzjoni industrjali", and "armamenti kimiċi" in Maltese, while the Italian terms are valutazione, vertenza sindacale, and armi chimiche respectively. (The origin of the terms may be narrowed even further to British English; the phrase "industrial action" is meaningless in the United States.) This is also comparable to the situation with English borrowings into the Italo-Australian dialect. English words of Germanic origin are generally preserved relatively unchanged.
Some influences of African Romance on Arabic and Berber spoken in the Maghreb are theorised, which may then have passed into Maltese.[46] For example, in calendar month names, the word furar "February" is only found in the Maghreb and in Maltese – proving the word's ancient origins. The region also has a form of another Latin named month in awi/ussu < augustus.[46] This word does not appear to be a loan word through Arabic, and may have been taken over directly from Late Latin or African Romance.[46] Scholars theorise that a Latin-based system provided forms such as awi/ussu and furar in African Romance, with the system then mediating Latin/Romance names through Arabic for some month names during the Islamic period.[47] The same situation exists for Maltese which mediated words from Italian, and retains both non-Italian forms such as awissu/awwissu and frar, and Italian forms such as april.[47]
Siculo-Arabic[edit]
Siculo-Arabic is the ancestor of the Maltese language,[9] and supplies between 32%[9] and 40%[10] of the language's vocabulary.
Maltese
Siculo-Arabic(in Sicilian)
Arabic text
English
bebbuxu
babbaluciu
ببوش (babbūš)
snail
ġiebja
gebbia
جب (jabb)
cistern
ġunġlien
giuggiulena
جنجلان (junjulān)
sesame seed
sieqja
saia
ساقية (sāqiyah)
canal
kenur
tannura
تنور (tannūr)
oven
żagħfran
zaffarana
زعفران (zaʿfarān)
saffron
żahra (less common than fjura, borrowed from Medieval Sicilian)
zagara
زهرة (zahrah)
blossom
żbib
zibbibbu
زبيب (zabīb)
raisins
zokk (may be borrowed from Sicilian)
zuccu
ساق (sāq)
tree trunk
tebut
tabbutu
تابوت (tābūt)
coffin
kapunata
capunata
(non-Arabic origin)
caponata
qassata
cassata
Cassata
Żammit (2000) found that 40% of a sample of 1,821 Quranic Arabic roots were found in Maltese, a lower percentage than found in Moroccan (58%) and Lebanese Arabic (72%).[48] An analysis of the etymology of the 41,000 words in Aquilina's Maltese-English Dictionary shows that 32% of the Maltese vocabulary is of Arabic origin,[9] although another source claims 40%.[10][49] Usually, words expressing basic concepts and ideas, such as raġel (man), mara (woman), tifel (boy), dar (house), xemx (sun), sajf (summer), are of Arabic origin. Moreover, belles-lettres in Maltese tend to aim mainly at diction belonging to this group.[30]
The Maltese language has merged many of the original Arabic consonants, in particular the emphatic consonants, with others that are common in European languages. Thus, original Arabic /d/, /ð/, and /dˤ/ all merged into Maltese /d/. The vowels, however, separated from the three in Arabic (/a i u/) into five, as is more typical of other European languages (/a ɛ i o u/). Some unstressed short vowels have been elided. The common Arabic greeting as salāmu 'alaykum is cognate with is-sliem għalikom in Maltese (lit. the peace for you, peace be with you), as are similar greetings in other Semitic languages (e.g. shalom ʿalekhem in Hebrew).
Since the attested vocabulary of Siculo-Arabic is limited, the following table compares cognates in Maltese and some other varieties of Arabic (all forms are written phonetically, as in the source):[50]
Maltese
Cairene
Damascene
Iraqi
Negev(bedouin)
Yemenite(Sanaani)
Moroccan
Modern Standard Arabic
English
qalb
'alb
'aleb
qalb
galb
galb
qalb
قلب (qalb)
heart
waqt
wa't
wa'et
waket
wagt
wagt
waqt
وقت (waqt)
time
qamar
'amar
'amar
qamaɣ
gumar
gamar
qmar
قمر (qamar)
moon
kelb
kalb
kaleb
kalb
čalb
kalb
kalb
كلب (kalb)
dog
Berber[edit]
Like all Maghrebi Arabic dialects, Maltese has a significant vocabulary derived from Berber languages. Whether these words entered Maltese by being inherited from Siculo-Arabic or directly loaned Berber languages is not yet known. These include:[51]
Maltese
Berber languages
English
gremxula
azrem ašal, lit. 'land worm', (Kabyle)
lizard
fekruna
tifakrunin (Jerbi), ifekran (Tashelhiyt), ifkran (Kabyle)
turtle
geddum
aqadum, lit. 'face, frown' (Kabyle)
chin
gendus
gandūz, lit. 'young calf' (Jerbi)
ox, bull
gerżuma
ageržum (Mozabite, Tashelhiyt)
throat
tfief
tilfaf (Ouargli), tifāf, tilfāf, tiffāf (Tarifit)
sow thistle (Sonchus oleraceus)
tengħud
talaɣūda (Tunisian Arabic), telɣūda (Algerian Arabic)
spurge (Euphorbia)
kosksu
kuskesu, kuskus (Kabyle)
couscous, small round pasta
fartas
aferḍas (Ouargli, Kabyle)
bald
għaffeġ
‘affež (Algerian Arabic), effeẓ (Ouargli, Mozabite)
to crush, to squash
żrinġ
tažrant (Jerbi)
frog
żrar
zrar (Mozabite, Ouargli), azrar (Kabyle, Nafusi)
gravel
werżieq
wárẓag (Mrazig)
cicada, lit. screamer, shrieker
buqexrem
buqišrem (Kabyle)
vervain (Verbena officinalis)
fidloqqom
fudalɣem (Kabyle)
borage (Borago officinalis)
żorr
uzur (Kabyle), uzzur (Tarifit)
rude, arrogant
lellex
lelleš (Mozabite)
to shine, to glitter
pespes
bbesbes (Ouargli)
to whisper
teptep
ṭṭebṭeb (Ouargli)
to blink, to twinkle
webbel
webben (Mozabite)
to induce, to tempt
English[edit]
It is estimated that English loanwords, which are becoming more commonplace, make up 20% of the Maltese vocabulary,[10] although other sources claim amounts as low as 6%.[9] This percentage discrepancy is due to the fact that a number of new English loanwords are sometimes not officially considered part of the Maltese vocabulary; hence, they are not included in certain dictionaries.[9] Also, English loanwards of Latinate origin are very often Italianised, as discussed above. English loanwords are generally transliterated, although standard English pronunciation is virtually always retained. Below are a few examples:
Maltese
English
futbol
football
baskitbol
basketball
klabb
club
friġġ
fridge
"Fridge" is a common shortening of "refrigerator". "Refrigerator" is a Latinate word which could be imported into Maltese as rifriġeratori, whereas the Italian word is frigorifero or refrigeratore.
Calendar[edit]
The days of the week (Maltese: jiem il-ġimgħa) in Maltese are referred to by number, as is typical of other Semitic languages, especially Arabic. Days of the week are commonly preceded by the word nhar meaning 'day'.
English
Maltese
Literal
Sunday
Il-Ħadd
first [day]
Monday
It-Tnejn
second [day]
Tuesday
It-Tlieta
third [day]
Wednesday
L-Erbgħa
fourth [day]
Thursday
Il-Ħamis
fifth [day]
Friday
Il-Ġimgħa
gathering [day]
Saturday
Is-Sibt
Sabbath [day]
The months of the year (Maltese: xhur is-sena) in Maltese are mostly derived from Sicilian, but Frar and Awwissu are possibly derived from African Romance through Siculo-Arabic.
English
Maltese
January
Jannar
February
Frar
March
Marzu
April
April
May
Mejju
June
Ġunju
July
Lulju
August
Awwissu
September
Settembru
October
Ottubru
November
Novembru
December
Diċembru
Time[edit]
English
Maltese
today
illum
yesterday
ilbieraħ
tomorrow
għada
second
sekonda
minute
minuta (archaic: dqiqa)
hour
siegħa
day
jum or ġurnata
week
ġimgħa
month
xahar
year
sena
Question words[edit]
English
Maltese
Example
Translation
What (standalone)
Xiex
Xiex?
What?
What (preceding)
X'
X' għamilt?
What did you do?
Who
Min
Min hu dak?
Who is he?
How
Kif
Kif inti llum?
How are you today?
Where
Fejn
Fejn sejjer?
Where are you going?
Where (from)
Mnejn
Mnejn ġie?
Where did he come from?
Why
Għala, Għaliex, Għalxiex, Ilgħala
Għala telaq?
Why did he leave?
Which
Liem, Liema
Liem wieħed hu tajjeb?
Which one is good?
When
Meta
Meta ħa titlaq?
When will you leave?
How Much
Kemm
Kemm jiswa dan?
How much does this cost?
Grammar[edit]
Maltese grammar is fundamentally derived from Siculo-Arabic, although Romance and English noun pluralisation patterns are also used on borrowed words.
Adjectives and adverbs[edit]
Adjectives follow nouns. There are no separately formed native adverbs, and word order is fairly flexible. Both nouns and adjectives of Semitic origin take the definite article (for example, It-tifel il-kbir, lit. "The boy the elder"="The elder boy"). This rule does not apply to adjectives of Romance origin.
Nouns[edit]
Nouns are pluralised and also have a dual marker. Semitic plurals are complex; if they are regular, they are marked by -iet/-ijiet, e.g., art, artijiet "lands (territorial possessions or property)" (cf. Arabic -at and Hebrew -ot/-oth) or -in (cf. Arabic -īn and Hebrew -im). If irregular, they fall in the pluralis fractus (broken plural) category, in which a word is pluralised by internal vowel changes: ktieb, kotba " book", "books"; raġel, irġiel "man", "men".
Words of Romance origin are usually pluralised in two manners: addition of -i or -jiet. For example, lingwa, lingwi "languages", from Sicilian lingua, lingui.
Words of English origin are pluralised by adding either an "-s" or "-jiet", for example, friġġ, friġis from the word fridge. Some words can be pluralised with either of the suffixes to denote the plural. A few words borrowed from English can amalgamate both suffixes, like brikksa from the English brick, which can adopt either collective form brikks or the plural form brikksiet.
Derivation[edit]
As in Arabic, nouns are often derived by changing, adding or removing the vowels within a triliteral root. These are some of the patterns used for nouns:[52]
CaCiC – xadin (monkey), sadid (rust)
CCiC – żbib (raisin)
CaCCa – baqra (cow), basla (onion)
CeCCa – werqa (leaf), xewqa (wish)
CoCCa – borka (wild duck), forka (gallows)
CaCC – qalb (heart), sajd (fishing)
CeCC – kelb (dog), xemx (sun)
CCuCija – tfulija (boyhood), xbubija (maidenhood)
CCuCa – rtuba (softness), bjuda (whiteness)
CaCCaC – tallab (beggar), bajjad (whitewasher)
The so-called mimated nouns use the prefix m- in addition to vowel changes. This pattern can be used to indicate place names, tools, abstractions, etc. These are some of the patterns used for mimated nouns:
ma-CCeC – marden (spindle)
mi-CCeC – minkeb (elbow), miżwed (pod)
mu-CCaC – musmar (nail), munqar (beak)
Article[edit]
The proclitic il- is the definite article, equivalent to "the" in English and "al-" in Arabic.
The Maltese article becomes l- before or after a vowel.
l-omm (the mother)
rajna l-Papa (we saw the Pope)
il-missier (the father)
The Maltese article assimilates to a following coronal consonant (called konsonanti xemxin "sun consonants"), namely:
Ċ iċ-ċikkulata (the chocolate)
D id-dar (the house)
N in-nar (the fire)
R ir-razzett (the farm)
S is-serrieq (the saw)
T it-tifel (the boy)
X ix-xemx (the sun)
Ż iż-żarbuna (the shoe)
Z iz-zalzett (the sausage)
Maltese il- is coincidentally identical in pronunciation to one of the Italian masculine articles, il. Consequently, many nouns borrowed from Standard Italian did not change their original article when used in Maltese. Romance vocabulary taken from Sicilian did change where the Sicilian articles u and a, before a consonant, are used.
In spite of its Romance appearance, il- is related to the Arabic article al-.[citation needed]
Verbs[edit]
Verbs show a triliteral Semitic pattern, in which a verb is conjugated with prefixes, suffixes, and infixes (for example ktibna, Arabic katabna, Hebrew kathabhnu (Modern Hebrew: katavnu) "we wrote"). There are two tenses: present and perfect. The Maltese verb system incorporates Romance verbs and adds Maltese suffixes and prefixes to them, for example; iddeċidejna "we decided" ← (i)ddeċieda "decide", a Romance verb + -ejna, a Maltese first person plural perfect marker.
An example would be the Semitic root X-M-X, which has something related to the sun, example: xemx (sun), xmux (suns), xemxi (sunny), xemxata (sunstroke), nixxemmex (I sunbathe), ma xxemmixtx (I didn't sunbathe), tixmix (the act of sunbathing). Maltese also features the stringing of verb suffixes indicating direction of action, for example; agħmilhomli "make them for me"← agħmel "make" in the imperative + hom from huma "them" + li suffix indicating first person singular; ħasletielu "she washed it for him"←ħaslet "she washed" from the verb ħasel "to wash" + ie the object + lu suffix indicating third person masculine singular.
Media[edit]
Main article: Language in the media in Malta
With Malta being a multilingual country, the usage of Maltese in the mass media is shared with other European languages, namely English and Italian. The majority of television stations broadcast from Malta in English or Maltese, although broadcasts from Italy in Italian are also received on the islands. Similarly, there are more Maltese-language radio programs than English ones broadcast from Malta, but again, as with television, Italian broadcasts are also picked up. Maltese generally receives equal usage in newspaper periodicals to English.
By the early 2000s, the use of the Maltese language on the Internet is uncommon, and the number of websites written in Maltese are few. In a survey of Maltese cultural websites conducted in 2004 on behalf of the Maltese Government, 12 of 13 were in English only, while the remaining one was multilingual but did not include Maltese.[53] In 2011, only 6.5 percent of Maltese internet users reported employing Maltese online, which may be a consequence of the lack of online support for the language.[54]
Code-switching[edit]
The Maltese population, being fluent in both Maltese and English, displays code-switching (referred to as Maltenglish) in certain localities and between certain social groups.[9]
See also[edit]
Malta portalLanguages portal
Languages of Malta
Maltese people
Footnotes[edit]
^ Dritt (pl. drittijiet) is derived from Italian diritto (right).
^ Minoranza (pl. minoranzi) is derived from Italian minoranza (minority).
^ Pajjiż (pl. pajjiżi) is derived from Sicilian pajisi (country).
Notes[edit]
^ a b Maltese at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ "Constitution of Malta". Retrieved 3 December 2017.
^ So who are the 'real' Maltese. September 13, 2014. Archived from the original on 2016-03-12. The kind of Arabic used in the Maltese language is most likely derived from the language spoken by those that repopulated the island from Sicily in the early second millennium; it is known as Siculo-Arab. The Maltese are mostly descendants of these people.
^ a b Borg and Azzopardi-Alexander, 1997 (1997). Maltese. Routledge. p. xiii. ISBN 978-0-415-02243-9. In fact, Maltese displays some areal traits typical of Maghrebine Arabic, although over the past 800 years of independent evolution it has drifted apart from Tunisian and Libyan Arabic
^ Brincat (2005): "Originally Maltese was an Arabic dialect but it was immediately exposed to Latinisation because the Normans conquered the islands in 1090, while Christianisation, which was complete by 1250, cut off the dialect from contact with Classical Arabic. Consequently Maltese developed on its own, slowly but steadily absorbing new words from Sicilian and Italian according to the needs of the developing community."
^ Hoberman, Robert D. (2007). "Chapter 13: Maltese Morphology". In Kaye, Alan S. (ed.). Morphologies of Asia and Africa. Vol. 1. Winona Lake, Indiana: Eisenbrown. p. 258. ISBN 9781575061092. Archived from the original on 2017-09-30. Maltese is the chief exception: Classical or Standard Arabic is irrelevant in the Maltese linguistic community and there is no diglossia.
^ Hoberman, Robert D. (2007). "Chapter 13: Maltese Morphology". In Kaye, Alan S. (ed.). Morphologies of Asia and Africa. Winona Lake, Indiana: Eisenbrown. pp. 257–258. ISBN 9781575061092. Archived from the original on 2017-09-30. yet it is in its morphology that Maltese also shows the most elaborate and deeply embedded influence from the Romance languages, Sicilian and Italian, with which it has long been in intimate contact.... As a result Maltese is unique and different from Arabic and other Semitic languages.
^ Brincat (2005): "An analysis of the etymology of the 41,000 words in Aquilina's Maltese-English Dictionary shows that 32.41% are of Arabic origin, 52.46% are from Sicilian and Italian, and 6.12% are from English. Although nowadays we know that all languages are mixed to varying degrees, this is quite an unusual formula. However, the words derived from Arabic are more frequent because they denote the basic ideas and include the function words."
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Brincat (2005).
^ a b c d e "Languages across Europe – Maltese, Malti". BBC. Archived from the original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 12 January 2017.
^ "Mutual Intelligibility of Spoken Maltese, Libyan Arabic and Tunisian Arabic Functionally Tested: A Pilot Study". p. 1. Retrieved 23 September 2017. To summarise our findings, we might observe that when it comes to the most basic everyday language, as reflected in our data sets, speakers of Maltese are able to understand less than a third of what is being said to them in either Tunisian or Benghazi Libyan Arabic.
^ Borg, Albert J.; Azzopardi-Alexander, Marie (1997). Maltese. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-02243-6.
^ "Mutual Intelligibility of Spoken Maltese, Libyan Arabic and Tunisian Arabic Functionally Tested: A Pilot Study". p. 1. Retrieved 23 September 2017. Speakers of Tunisian and Libyan Arabic are able to understand about 40% of what is said to them in Maltese.
^ "Mutual Intelligibility of Spoken Maltese, Libyan Arabic and Tunisian Arabic Functionally Tested: A Pilot Study". p. 1. Retrieved 23 September 2017. In comparison, speakers of Libyan Arabic and speakers of Tunisian Arabic understand about two-thirds of what is being said to them.
^ The Cantilena. 2013-10-19. Archived from the original on 2015-12-08.
^ Il-Kunsill Nazzjonali tal-Ilsien Malti. Archived from the original on 2014-01-06. Fundamentally, Maltese is a Semitic tongue, the same as Arabic, Aramaic, Hebrew, Phoenician, Carthaginian and Ethiopian. However, unlike other Semitic languages, Maltese is written in the Latin alphabet, but with the addition of special characters to accommodate certain Semitic sounds. Nowadays, however, there is much in the Maltese language today that is not Semitic, due to the immeasurable Romantic influence from our succession of (Southern) European rulers through the ages.
^ a b c Brincat (2005)
^ Felice, A. E. (5 August 2007). "Genetic origin of contemporary Maltese". Times of Malta. Archived from the original on 9 November 2019. Retrieved 9 November 2019.
^ Capelli, C.; et al. (Mar 2006). "Population structure in the Mediterranean basin: a Y chromosome perspective". Ann. Hum. Genet. 70 (2): 207–225. doi:10.1111/j.1529-8817.2005.00224.x. hdl:2108/37090. PMID 16626331. S2CID 25536759.
^ a b c d L-Akkademja tal-Malti. "The Maltese Language Academy". Archived from the original on 2015-09-23.
^ a b c Agius, D. A. (1990). "Reviewed Work: A Contribution to Arabic Lexical Dialectology by Al-Miklem Malti". Bull. Br. Soc. Middle East. Stud. 17 (2): 171–180. doi:10.1080/13530199008705515. JSTOR 194709.
^ Cassola, A. (June 2012). "Italo-Maltese relations (ca. 1150–1936): people, culture, literature, language". Mediterr. Rev. 5 (1): 1–20. ISSN 2005-0836.
^ "As at the 2006 Australian Census, the number of Australians speaking Maltese at home was 36,514, compared to 41,250 in 2001 and 45,243 in 1996. The 2006 figures represent a drop of 19.29% when compared with the 1996 figures. Given that many of those who speak Maltese at home are over the age of 60, the number of Maltese speakers will invariably go for a nosedive by 2016." Joseph Carmel Chetcuti, Why It's time to bury the Maltese language in Australia, Malta Independent, 2 March 2010.
^ Nigel Mifsud, Malta's Ambassador meets Maltese who have lived their whole life in Tunisia, TVM, 13 November 2017.
^ Merritt Ruhlen. 1991. A Guide to the World's Languages, Volume 1: Classification. Stanford.David Dalby. 2000. The Linguasphere Register of the World's Languages and Speech Communities. Linguasphere Observatory.Gordon, Raymond G., Jr., ed. 2005. Ethnologue: Languages of the World. 15th ed. Summer Institute of Linguistics.Alan S. Kaye & Judith Rosenhouse. 1997. "Arabic Dialects and Maltese", The Semitic Languages. Ed. Robert Hetzron. Routledge. Pages 263–311.
^ Borg (1997).
^ Vella (2004), p. 263.
^ "Punic language". Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. 2013. Archived from the original on 15 June 2013. Retrieved 25 June 2013.
^ Sheehan, Sean (12 January 2017). Malta. Marshall Cavendish. ISBN 9780761409939. Retrieved 12 January 2017 – via Google Books.
^ a b c d e f g h Isserlin. Studies in Islamic History and Civilization. BRILL 1986, ISBN 965-264-014-X
^ Hume (1996), p. 165.
^ Borg (1997), p. 248.
^ Borg (1997), pp. 249–250.
^ Borg (1997), pp. 251–252.
^ Borg (1997), p. 255.
^ Borg (1997), p. 254.
^ Borg (1997), p. 247.
^ Borg (1997), p. 260.
^ Auroux, Sylvain (2000). History of the language sciences: an international handbook on the evolution of the study of language from the beginnings to the present. Berlin: New York : Walter de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-011103-3.
^ Mifsud, Manwel (1995). Loan Verbs in Maltese: A Descriptive and Comparative Study. Brill Publishers. p. 31. ISBN 978-90-04-10091-6.
^ "Missierna : Malta". www.wordproject.org. Retrieved 2023-08-25.
^ "Arabic Prayer-The Lord's Prayer". www.lords-prayer-words.com. Retrieved 2023-08-25.
^ "The Lord's Prayer". syriacorthodoxresources.org. Retrieved 2023-08-25.
^ Friggieri (1994), p. 59.
^ About Malta[permanent dead link]; GTS; retrieved on 2008-02-24
^ a b c Kossmann 2013, p. 75.
^ a b Kossmann 2013, p. 76.
^ Żammit (2000), pp. 241–245.
^ Compare with approx. 25–33% of Old English or Germanic words in Modern English.
^ Kaye, Alan S.; Rosenhouse, Judith (1997). "Arabic Dialects and Maltese". In Hetzron, Robert (ed.). The Semitic Languages. Routledge. pp. 263–311.
^ Hull, Geoffrey (2019). "Exploring the Berber element in Maltese". {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Teach Yourself Maltese Joseph Aquilina".
^ "Country report for MINERVA Plus in 2005". Multilingual issues in Malta. Archived from the original on 2008-02-27. Retrieved 2008-02-24.
^ Camilleri, Ivan (May 16, 2011). "Maltese language hardly used on the internet". Times of Malta. Retrieved 2023-03-23.
References[edit]
Aquilina, Joseph (1965). Teach Yourself Maltese. English University Press.
Azzopardi, C. (2007). Gwida għall-Ortografija. Malta: Klabb Kotba Maltin.
Borg, Alexander (1997). "Maltese Phonology". In Kaye, Alan S. (ed.). Phonologies of Asia and Africa. Vol. 1. Eisenbrauns. pp. 245–285. ISBN 9781575060194.
Borg, Albert J.; Azzopardi-Alexander, Marie (1997). Maltese. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-02243-9.
Brincat, Joseph M. (2005). "Maltese – an unusual formula". MED Magazine (27). Archived from the original on 5 September 2005. Retrieved 22 February 2008.
Bugeja, Kaptan Pawlu, Kelmet il-Malti (Maltese—English, English—Maltese Dictionary). Associated News Group, Floriana. 1999.
Friggieri, Oliver (1994). "Main Trends in the History of Maltese Literature". Neohelicon. 21 (2): 59–69. doi:10.1007/BF02093244. S2CID 144795860.
Hume, Elizabeth (1996). "Coronal Consonant, Front Vowel Parallels in Maltese". Natural Language & Linguistic Theory. 14 (1): 163–203. doi:10.1007/bf00133405. S2CID 170703136.
Kossmann, Maarten (2013). The Arabic Influence on Northern Berber. ISBN 9789004253094. {{cite book}}: |work= ignored (help)
Mifsud, M.; A. J. Borg (1997). Fuq l-għatba tal-Malti. Strasbourg: Council of Europe.
Vassalli, Michelantonio (1827). Grammatica della lingua Maltese. Stampata per l'autore.
Vella, Alexandra (2004). "Language contact and Maltese intonation: Some parallels with other language varieties". In Kurt Braunmüller and Gisella Ferraresi (ed.). Aspects of Multilingualism in European Language History. Hamburg Studies on Multiculturalism. John Benjamins Publishing Company. p. 263. ISBN 978-90-272-1922-0.
Żammit, Martin (2000). "Arabic and Maltese Cognate Roots". In Mifsud, Manwel (ed.). Proceedings of the Third International Conference of Aida. Malta: Association Internationale de Dialectologie Arabe. pp. 241–245. ISBN 978-99932-0-044-4.
Further reading[edit]
(it) Giovan Pietro Francesco Agius de Soldanis, Della lingua punica presentemente usata da maltesi, per Generoso Salomoni alla Piazza di S. Ignazio. Si vendono in Malta, 1750
(it) Antonio Emanuele Caruana, Sull'origine della Lingua Maltese, Malta, Tipografia C. Busuttil, 1896
(it) Giovanni Battista Falzon, Dizionario Maltese-Italiano-Inglese, G. Muscat, 1845 (1 ed.), 1882 (2 ed.)
(it) Giuseppe Nicola Letard, Nuova guida alla conversazione italiana, inglese e maltese ad uso delle scuole, Malta, 1866–75
(it) Fortunato Panzavecchia, Grammatica della Lingua Maltese, M. Weiss, Malta, 1845
(it) Michele Antonio Vassalli, Grammatica della lingua Maltese, 2 ed., Malta, 1827
(it) Michele Antonio Vassalli, Lexicon Melitense-Latino-Italum, Roma, Fulgonius, 1796
(it) Francesco Vella, Osservazioni sull'alfabeto maltese, 1840
(it) Francesca Morando, Il-lingwa Maltija. Origine, storia, comparazione linguistica e aspetti morfologici, Prefazione di Joseph M. Brincat, Palermo, Edizioni La Zisa, 2017, ISBN 978-88-9911-339-1
(en) S. Mamo, English-Maltese Dictionary, Malta, A. Aquilina, 1885
(en) A Short Grammar of the Maltese Language, Malta, 1845
(en) C. F. Schlienz, Views on the Improvement of the Maltese Language, Malta, 1838
(en) Francesco Vella, Maltese Grammar for the Use of the English, Glaucus Masi, Leghorn, 1831
(en) Francesco Vella, Dizionario portatile delle lingue Maltese Italiana, Inglese. pt. 1, Livorno, 1843
(en) Joseph Aquilina, Teach Yourself Maltese, English University Press, 1965
(en) Geoffrey Hull, The Malta Language Question: A Case Study in Cultural Imperialism, Said International, Valletta, 1993
(mt) Vicenzo Busuttil, Diziunariu mill Inglis ghall Malti, 2 parts, N. C. Cortis & Sons, Malta, 1900
External links[edit]
 Maltese  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For a list of words relating to Maltese language, see the Maltese language category of words in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
 Maltese travel guide from Wikivoyage
Maltese languages and literatures collection of L-Università ta' Malta
vteArabic languageOverviews
Language
Alphabet
History
Romanization
Numerology
Influence on other languages
Scripts
Nabataean script
Persian alphabet
Ancient North Arabian
Ancient South Arabian script
Zabūr script
Arabic numerals
Eastern numerals
Arabic Braille
Algerian
Diacritics
i‘jām
Tashkil
Harakat
Tanwin
Shaddah
Hamzah
Dagger alif
Letters
ʾAlif
Bāʾ
Tāʾ
Ṯāʾ
Ǧīm
Ḥāʾ
Ḫāʾ
Dāl
Ḏāl
Rāʾ
Zāy
Sīn
Šīn
Ṣād
Ḍād
Ṭāʾ
Ẓāʾ
ʿAyn
Ġayn
Fāʾ
Qāf
Kāf
Lām
Mīm
Nūn
Hāʾ
Wāw
Yāʾ
Hamzah
VarietiesPre-Islamic
Proto-Arabic
Nabataean Arabic
Old Arabic
Pre-classical Arabic
Literary
Classical
Modern Standard
Modern SpokenPeninsularCentral-Eastern
Bahrani
Gulf
Bahraini
Emirati
Kuwaiti
Najdi
Omani
Shihhi
Western
Hejazi
Southern
Bareqi
Yemeni
Hadhrami
Sanʽani
Taʽizzi-Adeni
Tihami
Judeo-Yemeni
Dhofari
Northwestern
Bedawi
Nilo-EgyptianNorthern
Egyptian
Saʽidi
Judeo-Egyptian
Central
Chadian
Sudanese
MesopotamianNorthern
North Mesopotamian
Judeo-Iraqi
Anatolian
Cypriot
Central
Gilit
Baghdadi
Shawi Arabic
Southern
South Mesopotamian
Khuzestani
LevantineNorth
Syrian
Aleppine
Damascene
Lebanese
Cilician
South
Jordanian
Palestinian
MaghrebiPre-Hilalian
Urban
North-Eastern Tunisian
Eastern Village
Sahel
Sfaxian
Lesser Kabylia
Western Village
Traras-Msirda
Mountain
Judeo-Maghrebi Arabic
Judeo-Moroccan
Judeo-Tripolitanian
Judeo-Tunisian
Andalusi
Sicilian
Maltese
Hilalian
Sulaym
Libyan koiné
Western Egyptian Bedawi
Eastern Hilal
Tunisian koiné
Central Hilal
Algerian koiné
Algerian Saharan
Eastern Algerian
Maqil
Western Moroccan
Eastern Moroccan
Fessi dialect
Western Algerian
Hassānīya
Nemadi dialect
Moroccan koiné
Peripheries
Central Asian
Bakhtiari
Bukhara
Kashkadarya
Khorasani
Shirvani
Sociological
Bedouin Arabic
Judeo-Arabic
Judeo-Iraqi
Baghdadi
Judeo-Moroccan
Kjal
Wqal
Judeo-Tripolitanian
Judeo-Tunisian
Tunisene
Judeo-Yemeni
Adeni
Beda
Habban
Sanʽani
Creoles and pidgins
Bimbashi
Juba
Maridi
Nubi
Turku
Academic
Literature
Names
Linguistics
Phonology
Sun and moon letters
Tajwid
Imāla
ʾIʿrāb (case)
Grammar
Triliteral root
Mater lectionis
IPA
Quranic Arabic Corpus
Calligraphy · Script
Ajami script
Diwani
Jawi script
Kufic
Rasm
Mashq
Hijazi script
Maghrebi
Muhaqqaq
Thuluth
Naskh (script)
Ruqʿah script
Taʿlīq script
Nastaʿlīq script
Shahmukhī script
Sini (script)
Tawqi
Jeli Thuluth
Kairouani
Technical
Arabic keyboard
Arabic script in Unicode
ISO/IEC 8859-6
Windows-1256
MS-DOS codepages
708
709
710
711
720
864
MacArabic encoding
Italics indicate extinct languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
 Category
vteSemitic languagesEast
Akkadian
Canaano-Akkadian
Eblaite
WestCen-tralNorth-westCana-aniteHebrewEras
Biblical (northern dialect)
Mishnaic
Medieval
Modern
Readingtraditions
Ashkenazi
Babylonian
Italian
Mizrahi (Syrian)
Palestinian
Samaritan
Sephardi
Tiberian
Yemenite
Others
Ammonite
Edomite
Moabite
Phoenician
Punic
Samalian
AramaicHistorical
Old Aramaic
Imperial Aramaic
Biblical Aramaic
Middle Aramaic
Western
Nabataean
Palestinian
Christian Palestinian
Jewish Palestinian
Samaritan
Palmyrene
Western Neo-Aramaic
EasternNeo-AramaicCentralNeo-Aramaic
Mlaḥsô
Turoyo
NortheasternNeo-AramaicChristian
Suret
Assyrian
Chaldean
Barwar
Bohtan Neo-Aramaic
Hértevin
Koy Sanjaq Surat
Qaraqosh
Senaya
Urmia Christian
Judeo-Aramaic
Barzani
Betanure
Inter-Zab
Koy Sanjaqc
Sanandaj
Trans-Zab
Urmia Jewish
Zakho
Mandaic
Neo-Mandaic
Others
Ashurian and Hatran
Jewish Babylonian Aramaic
Syriac
Others
Amorite
Ugaritic
Ancient North Arabian
Dadanitic
Dumaitic
Hasaitic
Hismaic
Safaitic
Taymanitic
Thamudic
Himyaritic
Sutean
ArabicHistorical
Proto-Arabic
Nabataean Arabic
Old Arabic
Pre-classical Arabic
Literary
Classical
Modern Standard
Dialect groups
Egyptian Arabic
Levantine
Maghrebi
Maltese
Siculo-Arabic
Mesopotamian
Peninsular
SouthEthiopicNorth
Geʽez
Dahalik
Tigre
Tigrinya
SouthTrans-versalAmharic–Argobba
Amharic
Argobba
Harari–East Gurage
Harari
East Gurage
Siltʼe
Inneqor
Ulbare
Wolane
Zay
Outern-group
Gafat
Soddo
tt-group
Mesmes
Muher
West Gurage
Inor
Endegen
Mesqan
Sebat Bet
Chaha
Ezha
Gumer
Gura
Gyeto
Modern Arabian
Baṭḥari
Ḥarsusi
Hobyot
Mehri
Shehri
Soqotri
Old Arabian
Faifi
Hadramautic
Minaean
Qatabanian
Awsanian
Razihi
Sabaic
Italics indicate extinct or historical languages.
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
vteDialects and accents of MalteseLocalized
Żejtun
Qormi
Rural Central
Rural West
Rural East
Gozitan
Non-localized
Maltralian
Maltenglish
Standard
vteLanguages of SicilyOfficial language
Italian
Contemporary languages
Sicilian language
Italian language
Regional Italian
Arbëresh language
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Modern Greek
Historical languages
Ancient Greek
Arabic
Tosk Albanian
Berber languages
Elymian language
Hebrew language
Italian language
Sicilian Greek
Judeo-Arabic languages
Koine Greek
Late Latin
Maghrebi Arabic
Maltese language
Medieval Greek
Mediterranean Lingua Franca
Norman language
Phoenician language
Punic language
Sicani
Sicilian language
Siculian
Siculo-Arabic
Southern Italian Koiné
Vulgar Latin
Authority control: National 
Spain
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Maltese_language&oldid=1172710196"
Categories: Maltese languageCentral Semitic languagesLanguages of MaltaLanguages of SicilySubject–object–verb languagesHidden categories: Articles containing Maltese-language textArticles containing Italian-language textArticles containing Sicilian-language textLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 25All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from January 2018Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1 errors: missing periodicalArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataEngvarB from November 2019Ill-formatted infobox-language imagesLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing Latin-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2023Articles needing additional references from August 2021All articles needing additional referencesWikipedia articles needing clarification from June 2021Articles containing Arabic-language textWikipedia articles with style issues from October 2022All articles with style issuesArticles with unsourced statements from May 2008Articles containing Moroccan Arabic-language textArticles containing French-language textArticles containing Hebrew-language textArticles containing Egyptian Arabic-language textArticles containing Levantine Arabic-language textArticles containing Mesopotamian Arabic-language textArticles containing Eastern Egyptian Bedawi Arabic-language textArticles containing Sanaani Arabic-language textArticles with unsourced statements from January 2014CS1 errors: periodical ignoredArticles with BNE identifiersArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles containing video clips
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 20:17 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width