    Relationship between UK Crown and law in focus as Carolean era begins  | International Bar Association
                    The IBA uses cookies to provide you with a better website experience. By continuing to use our site, you are agreeing to the use of cookies. 
 Manage cookies
                        Close and accept
Search...
Sign in
Search...
About
Contact the IBA
About the IBA
Governance, leadership and management
Diversity & Inclusion Council
Task forces
Special projects fund
Charitable trusts
Past presidents
IBA Presidency
IBA Presidency
Committees / Divisions
Legal Practice Division
Public and Professional Interest Division
Committee index
Section index
Regional fora
Bar associations
Outreach
Human Rights Institute
High Level Panel - Media Freedom
eyeWitness
ICC & ICL Programme
IBA Foundation
Legal Policy and Research Unit
Sustainable law podcast series 
Education and Internships
Scholarships and Awards
IBA ICC Moot Court Competition
News releases
Membership
Join the IBA
Membership directory
Conferences / Events
Conference diary
Specialist conference sponsorship
Webinar sponsorship
Digital Content
Digital Content home
Global Insight
News analysis
Global Insight podcasts
Films
In-House Perspective
Journals
Committee content
Guides and reports
Books
e-News advertising
Leaderboard advertising
Sign in
The IBA’s response to the war in Ukraine  
Relationship between UK Crown and law in focus as Carolean era begins 
Polly BotsfordThursday 22 September 2022
The last way of the Queen Elizabeth II. Pall Mall decorated with British flags for funeral ceremony. IRStone/AdobeStock
When thousands of Britons queued to pay their respects to Queen Elizabeth II as she lay in state, they filed into Westminster Hall. The Hall, a vast stone chamber and more than 900 years old, was where the main law courts were situated until the early 19th century. Oak planks defined each court, with benches put out for litigants.
The link between the Crown and the law is not incidental. The Crown is considered to be the source of all justice in the UK. Enter any courtroom in England and Wales and it’s the Royal Coat of Arms that hangs above the judge. Judges derive their authority from the Crown and are, officially, appointed by the Crown. Nowhere is this written down as law, as the UK does not have a written constitution, but it’s manifest all over the country.
It’s not absolutely clear, however, what the ‘source of all justice’ really means. In history, the Crown was, in a very literal sense, the fountain of all laws: Anglo-Saxon monarchs would, broadly speaking, have adjudicated on most matters of dispute. Over time, they sent out ‘the King’s Judges’ to do their adjudicating for them.
It wasn’t until the 18th century that a measure of distance was put between Crown and judge. Following the English Civil War and the Restoration, the Act of Settlement 1701 gave the judiciary security of tenure so they couldn’t be dismissed at the whim of the Crown, thus paving the way for a modern notion of judicial independence. Today, the UK Supreme Court is the final adjudicator.
The Crown did, and still does, have specific legal powers, referred to as the royal prerogative. But in the modern era, there are very few areas where the power resides purely with the monarch – they are mostly archaic, such as the right to sturgeon, swans and whales. Most of the powers are either exercised by the Crown’s ministers – the government of the day – or by the Crown but on ministerial advice.
Related links
The British Empire and the rule of law
The rule of law and the law of rules
The Crown in its symbolic sense, represents what in other places would be a core element of a written constitution
Professor Maurice Sunkin KC
Professor of Public Law and Socio-Legal Studies, University of Essex
The Crown’s place as a ‘source of all justice’ is similar to its position as the source of legislative and executive authority in the UK. Each of the three powers: the judicial, the executive and the legislature, operate ‘in the name of the Crown’. In republican-based systems, this would be ‘in the name of the state’. In the UK, there’s no notion of a ‘state’ in law. Mark Stephens CBE, Co-Chair of the IBA’s Human Rights Institute, argues that ‘the “Crown” is really just an incarnation of the “state”, and reflects the historical journey which has got us to this point.’
Professor Maurice Sunkin KC, Professor of Public Law and Socio-Legal Studies at the University of Essex, puts it slightly differently. ‘All the three instruments: government, the courts, and parliament, operate in the name of the Crown. It is a concept that unifies the system as a whole,’ he says. ‘So even though the three powers are separate, they are connected by – and working for – something beyond themselves and each other, which is the Crown. The Crown in its symbolic sense, represents what in other places would be a core element of a written constitution.’
It’s also true, however, that a modern state is called upon to consider not only where its power comes from but also how it exercises that power and thus ensures that it upholds the rule of law. It’s hard to discern how the Crown fits with that worthy principle.
Certainly, part of the Crown’s task, acting through the monarch, is to uphold justice, and this happens right at the outset in the monarch’s Coronation Oath – which has been around since a parliamentary act passed in 1689. In it, the monarch makes it clear that they will ‘Cause Law and Justice in Mercy to be executed’ in ‘all […] judgements’.
Sunkin KC sees a role for the Crown as a protector of the rule of law. ‘If we think that the greatest threat to the rule of law is an executive autocrat where the governing party grabs power, under the system we have, even such a government can’t claim power for itself because government is only there in the Crown’s name,’ he says. ‘And so it is only one branch of an overarching concept called the Crown.’
But in another way, the Crown appears to operate above the rule of law because it’s protected by sovereign immunity. The Crown itself is not bound by statute nor by the common law. The monarch cannot be personally prosecuted and cannot be litigated against, though His or Her ministers and public servants can. So even if the monarch doesn’t do what they swore to do, there’s not much her or his subjects can do about it.
Some experts feel that this should probably change. As Sir Stephen Sedley, a former Appeal Court judge and now a writer on constitutional and legal affairs, once commented: ‘It is not inexorable in a constitutional monarchy that the Monarch cannot be given a parking ticket like the rest of us.’
As the UK enters a new era with the succession of King Charles III, it must be worth asking whether or not it matters for justice that the Crown has this intangible part to play. ‘If you ask a judge what difference it makes that they are appointed by a monarch or by a state, they may say that it does make a difference, psychologically,’ says Professor Robert Hazell, Professor of Government and the Constitution at University College, London, and Founder of its Constitution Unit. ‘The Crown feels more independent of politics, independent of the government of the day. The Crown speaks of public service. Your appointment must feel less to do with the fleeting moments of a government’s time in office and more to do with this fixed and constant thing called the Crown.’
       Download the IBA Global Insight app Access expert analysis on international rule of law, business and human rights         
Explore the IBA
Sign in
About the IBA
Conferences and events
Digital content
Committee index
IBA Human Rights Institute
ICC & ICL Programme
Anti-Money Laundering Forum 
Contact the IBA
Get in touch 
  International Bar Association, Chancery House, 53-64 Chancery Lane, London WC2A 1QS
 
+44 (0) 20 7842 0090
 
 
 
 
 
Get in touch 
Join the IBA
Expand your international network, gain new business and learn about the latest legal developments through IBA digital content and events, with IBA membership. Available for individuals, students, law firms, bar associations and corporations.
Join today 
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Cookie policy
Recruitment
Harassment policy