Malaysia
Skip to Main Content
  You are viewing:   ArchivedContent  Information released online from January 20, 2009 to January 20, 2017. Note: Content in this archive site is not updated, and links may not function. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.    Go to the current State.gov website for up-to-date information.   
DOS Seal
U.S. Department of State
Diplomacy in Action
Video
Twitter
Facebook
More
Flickr
YouTube
Instagram
Google+
Tumblr
DipNote Blog
RSS
Subscribe
Toggle Topbar
Menu
Secretary Kerry
Remarks
Travel
Photos
Biography
About
Mission Statement
QDDR
Organization Chart
Budget
Department of State by State
Rules and Info Collection
Partner With State
Senior Officials
Alphabetical List of Bureaus and Offices
Advisory Groups
Biographies
Plans, Performance, Budgets
Agency Financial Reports
Open Government Initiative
No FEAR Act
Inspector General Hotline
U.S. Embassies and Other Posts
American Foreign Service Association
What We Do
Arms Control and International Security
Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights
Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment
Management
Political Affairs
Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
Policy Issues
Anti-Corruption
Climate & Environment
Counterterrorism & Countering Violent Extremism
Cyber Issues
Defeating ISIL
Democracy & Human Rights
Economic Affairs & Trade Policy
Energy
Food Security
Health Diplomacy
Nonproliferation
Oceans & Arctic
Refugees
Trafficking in Persons
Women's Issues
Countries & Regions
A-Z List of Countries and Other Areas
Africa (Sub-Sahara)
East Asia and the Pacific
Europe and Eurasia
Near East (northern Africa, Middle East)
South and Central Asia
Western Hemisphere (Latin America, the Caribbean, Canada)
UN & Other International Organizations
Press
Daily Press Briefings
Press Releases
Public Schedule
Secretary Kerry's Releases
International Media Engagement
RSS News Feeds
Email Subscriptions
Foreign Press Center
Search Input
Jump to In This Section
HomeUnder Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public AffairsBureau of Public AffairsBureau of Public Affairs: PublicationsU.S. Bilateral Relations Fact Sheets
U.S. Relations With Malaysia
Share
Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs
Fact Sheet
February 25, 2016
More information about Malaysia is available on the Malaysia Page and from other Department of State publications and other sources listed at the end of this fact sheet.
U.S.-MALAYSIA RELATIONS
The United States established diplomatic relations with Malaysia in 1957, following its independence from the United Kingdom, but has had a consular or commercial presence in the area comprising modern day Malaysia since the 1800’s. President Obama and Prime Minister Najib elevated the relationship to a Comprehensive Partnership in April 2014. Today, Malaysia is a significant regional and global partner for the United States, and the two countries share a diverse and expanding partnership in trade, investment, security, environmental cooperation, and educational and cultural relations. Economic ties are robust, and there is a long history of people-to-people exchanges. Malaysia has a diverse democracy and is an important partner in U.S. engagement with Southeast Asia. The two countries cooperate closely on security matters, including counter-terrorism, maritime domain awareness, and regional stability and participate frequently in bilateral and multilateral training, exercises, and visits.
U.S. Assistance to Malaysia
U.S. assistance to Malaysia focuses on education, exchanges, cultural heritage preservation, counterterrorism, non-proliferation, and security cooperation. The U.S. Fulbright English Teaching Assistant program in Malaysia is among the largest in the world, helping improve the English language skills of thousands of Malaysian secondary school students. Exchange programs promote engagement with secondary school and undergraduate students, Fulbright Scholars, agricultural fellows, and participants of sports and cultural programs. In 2014 President Obama announced additional exchange programs, grant opportunities and fellowships for youth ages 18 – 35 under the Young Southeast Asian Young Leaders Initiative (YSEALI). There are over 6,000 alumni of Department of State-sponsored exchange programs in Malaysia. Since 2001, the Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation (AFCP) has supported 10 projects to support the preservation of cultural heritage in Malaysia. The United States supports Malaysia’s counterterrorism efforts through information sharing, capacity building programs for law enforcement and judicial authorities, and assistance to improve immigration security and border controls. The United States also works with the Malaysian government and civil society actors on programs to counter violent extremism. Non-proliferation assistance aims at enhancing Malaysia’s ability to enforce its laws on shipments and trans-shipments of controlled munitions, dual-use commodities, and weapons of mass destruction and related commodities. Security cooperation and training builds capabilities among Malaysia’s armed forces and coast guard, allowing it to take on an expanded international role, including peacekeeping operations.
Bilateral Economic Relations
On February 4, 2016, the United States and Malaysia joined the rest of the 12 Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiating partners to sign the TPP, an ambitious next generation Asia-Pacific trade agreement. In addition to working together on TPP, the United States and Malaysia meet frequently to discuss bilateral trade and investment issues and to coordinate approaches on APEC, ASEAN, and the WTO. In 2015, U.S.-Malaysia bilateral trade in goods and services approached $50 billion. In 2014, Malaysia was the United States’ 19th largest trading partner and the second-largest trading partner among the 10 ASEAN members in Southeast Asia. The United States is Malaysia’s fourth-largest trading partner. U.S. exports to Malaysia include machinery, aircraft, agricultural products, optic and medical instruments, and iron and steel. U.S. imports from Malaysia include machinery, agricultural products, and optic and medical instruments. The United States continues to hold the largest stock of foreign investment into Malaysia, with several new investments in 2015. Reported U.S. foreign direct investment in Malaysia is led by the manufacturing, banking, and oil and gas sectors. Malaysian foreign direct investment in the United States is led by the real estate, gaming, biotechnology and wholesale trade sectors.
Malaysia's Membership in International Organizations
Malaysia and the United States belong to a number of the same international organizations, including the United Nations, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, ASEAN Regional Forum, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and World Trade Organization. Malaysia and the United States participate in the East Asia Summit. Malaysia is currently a non-permanent member of the Security Council (2015-2016).
Bilateral Representation
The U.S. Ambassador to Malaysia is Joseph Y. Yun; other principal embassy officials are listed in the Department's Key Officers List.
Malaysia maintains an embassy in the United States at 3516 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008, tel. (202) 572-9700.
More information about Malaysia is available from the Department of State and other sources, some of which are listed here:
Department of State Malaysia Country Page
Department of State Key Officers List
CIA World Factbook Malaysia Page
U.S. Embassy: Malaysia
History of U.S. Relations With Malaysia
Human Rights Reports 
International Religious Freedom Reports
Trafficking in Persons Reports
Narcotics Control Reports
Investment Climate Statements
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative Countries Page
U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Statistics
Export.gov International Offices Page
Travel and Business Information
In This Section:
Go Back
Highlights
Learn More
Business
Business Support: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Office of Global Partnerships
Commercial and Business Affairs Office
Key Officers of Foreign Service Posts
Trade Policy and Programs
Defense Trade Controls
Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
Recovery and Reinvestment Act
Service Contract Inventory
Careers
Consular Fellows Program
Foreign Service Officer
Civil Service Officer
Foreign Service Specialist
International Organizations
Student Programs
USAJobs: Working for America
Education & Exchanges
Discover Diplomacy
Global Youth Issues
Diplomatic History
Office of Overseas Schools
Exchange Visitor Program
Fulbright Program
Student Career Programs
Youth Exchange Programs
U.S. Diplomacy Center
Intercountry Adoption
Parental Child Abduction
Travel
Passports
Visas
Travel Information
Emergency Services
Intercountry Adoption
Parental Child Abduction
Foreign Per Diem Rates
Archive
Contact Us
FAQ
Search
Share
Subject Index
Accessibility Statement
Copyright Information
External Link Policy
FOIA
No Fear Act
Privacy Policy
Office of Inspector General 
BusinessUSA
White House
USA.gov
U.S. Embassies
The Office of Website Management, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department.External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.Note: documents in Portable Document Format (PDF) require Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0 or higher to view, download Adobe Acrobat Reader.
Top
Javascript is disabled in your browser. For the best experience on this web site, please enable Javascript.
You are entering the 2009-2017 Archive for the U.S. Department of State.
If you are looking for current information, visit www.state.gov.
× 