Saving the gardeners of the ocean  - INQUIRER.net, Philippine News for Filipinos
 
40 captures
08 Dec 2010 - 09 Jul 2023
Nov
DEC
Jul
10
2009
2010
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20101210194709/http://globalnation.inquirer.net:80/news/breakingnews/view/20101207-307576/Saving-the-gardeners-of-the-ocean
INQUIRER.net
News
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Technology
Business
Opinion
Global Nation
Politics
Advertise
Feedback
INQUIRER Global Nation
Advertisement
 Home  » News » Breakingnews
SPECIAL REPORT
Saving the gardeners of the ocean 
INQUIRER.net
First Posted 16:30:00 12/07/2010
Filed Under: Conservation, Environmental Issues, Animals
 Reprint this article
 Send as an e-mail
 Post a comment
Related Articles
Saudi with snakes on a plane arrested at UAE airport18 year-old wins 1st ever vertical marathonNickel firms deny causing fish killTourist beaches empty after Red Sea shark attacksDENR reviews Edsa traffic solutionsSeals clubbed to death at New Zealand tourist spotAmazon deforestation rate at historic low—BrazilSpanish animal rights activists stage naked protestCreation of ‘green’ police force pushed
Also in this section
Nobel peace ceremony hails absent laureate Liu XiaoboPH stands by decision to skip Nobel rites—DFAPH ‘relents’, to attend Nobel rites for jailed Chinese dissident—execDZIQ: OFW in Saudi Arabia seeks help vs abusive employerDZIQ: Enrile lauds Aquino’s decision for PH to boycott NobelFrance is tourism champion of 2010—UN body'No safe level' for tobacco --US reportAFP chief meets with Chinese defense officials on SpratlysAnger as Philippines says will skip Nobel ceremonyPH, Chinese military to resolve sea border disputes peacefullyUS House votes to integrate young immigrants
Advertisement
« Previous
Next »
1
MANILA, Philippines—They are the most charismatic of marine animals, gentle, mysterious ambassadors of the sea who wander thousands of miles across the world’s oceans, serving as important indicators of the health and condition of the marine environment. After some 35 years, females return to the beach of their birth to lay their eggs in a remarkable cycle of life.
The Sulu-Sulawesi Marine Ecoregion (SSME), home of the world’s greatest marine biodiversity, hosts some 600 species of corals and over 1,200 species of fish. It also hosts five of the world’s seven species of sea turtles—Green (Chelonia mydas), Hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata), Loggerhead (Caretta caretta), Olive Ridley (Lepidochelys olivacea), and Leatherback (Dermochelys coriacea). Green and Hawksbill turtles, in particular, nest and feed in areas all over the three SSME countries—Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines.
Today, this creature is confronting a slew of threats beyond its traditional use as food, killed for its meat and eggs. Many dangers face the animal at different stages in its life, from the consumption of eggs by humans and animals and the capture of hatchlings by predators, to habitat loss and degradation, poaching to turn shells into sunglasses and souvenirs, and the increasingly serious threat of being killed as by-catch in large-scale fisheries. Even as a female turtle lays hundreds of eggs, only about two percent will survive to sexual maturity. Dr. Nicolas Pilcher, Director of the Marine Research Foundation, estimated in 2007 that in Sabah, Malaysia alone, up to 3,000 turtles are killed annually as fisheries by-catch.
Protection of these far-ranging animals is a more complex matter than it seems, however. In 2006, the three countries of the SSME—Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines—established a Tri-National Committee to govern the ecoregion, and under which three subcommittees were assigned to respectively address threatened, charismatic, and migratory species; marine protected areas (MPA) and network; and fisheries.
The establishment of a transboundary MPA network to protect turtles, as well as other charismatic species such as Napoleon wrasse, marine mammals, and sharks, falls under the jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Threatened, Charismatic, and Migratory Species, in alignment with its goal: to provide technical advice and recommendations to improve the policies on the protection and management of such species and their habitats, in order to maintain the full range of biodiversity and provide for the long-term and socio-economic and cultural needs of human communities in the SSME.
 The Subcommittee’s Action Plan is also consistent with Goal No. 5 of the Coral Triangle Initiative, which governs the Coral Triangle, the larger ecoregion of which the SSME is a significant part. This CTI goal prioritizes “the improved status of sharks, sea turtles…marine mammals…and other identified threatened species.”
“An MPA network addresses the entire life history of turtles, from nesting and development to feeding and mating,” says Romeo B. Trono, country executive director of Conservation International Philippines, an environmental group that has been working in the SSME for the past five years.. “In that way, a network of MPA cans truly support the region’s marine turtles and all their habitats.”
The three subcommittees’ respective Action Plans, which are articulations of the broader SSME Ecoregion Conservation Plan developed in 2003, were launched at the East Asian Seas (EAS) Congress in Manila in 2009. They will be integrated into the SSME Comprehensive Action Plans, which will outline priority projects and possible sources of funding.
“The work of the subcommittees complement each other,” Trono says. “The species will definitely benefit from better fisheries and MPA management, while MPA networks are supported by sustainable fishing.”
A good illustration of such complementary goals: in 2009, the SSME Subcommittee on Sustainable Fisheries helped organize a five-day observation trip for representatives of the Malaysian trawler fishing industry to Pascagoula, Louisiana, USA to learn more about the use of Turtle Excluder Devices (TEDs). The fishermen realized that the device not only spared turtles and other species; it actually contributed to greater fuel conservation and fishing efficiency.
“Turtles are the gardeners of the ocean, and their work benefits many other marine species,” Trono emphasizes. “Their ecological significance is immeasurable, so it is imperative that we work together to protect them.”
View the discussion thread.blog comments powered by Disqus
 Print this article
 Send as an e-mail
  Most Read RSS
© Copyright 2010 INQUIRER.net. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Advertisement
Home
Global Nation
News
News Briefs
News by region
Philippines
Asia/Australia
US/Canada
Europe
Middle East/Africa
Features
People
Food
Travel
Opinion
Columnists
Benjamin Pimentel
Dr. Bernardo Villegas
Rodel Rodis
Luis Francia
Tess Guieb
Blogs
Being Filipino 
Living Abroad 
Inside Scoop 
Other
Viewpoints
Inquirer Global Pinoy
Public Service
Helpline
Achievers
Newsstand
Filipinas Mag 
Cebu Daily News
News
Metro
Opinion
Enterprise
Community
Sports
Visayas
Global Nation:
Home
News
Features
Opinion
Tambayan
Public Service
Overseas Pinoy
Newsstand
Advertise on Global Nation 
Feedback
Sitemap
© Copyright 1997-2010 INQUIRER.net
The INQUIRER Network
Home
News
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Technology
Business
Opinion
Global Nation
SiteMap
Services
Advertise
Buy Content
Wireless
Newsletter
Low Graphics
Archive
Contact Us
Article Index
The Inquirer Company
About INQUIRER.net
About the Inquirer
User Agreement
Link Policy
Privacy Policy