Canadian Broadcasting Corporation - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Frontier Coverage Package
1.22011 transition to digital television
1.3Fallout over the Ghomeshi affair
1.4Federal elections and copyright claims
1.4.142nd Canadian Parliament: lawsuit threats
1.4.243rd Canadian Parliament: trial of suit
1.4.3Resolution: court allows fair dealing
2Logos and slogans
3Personalities
4Organization
Toggle Organization subsection
4.1Mandate
4.2Management
4.2.1Board of directors
4.2.2Presidents
4.2.3Ombudsmen
4.3Financing
5Services
Toggle Services subsection
5.1News
5.2Radio
5.2.1Long-range radio plan
5.2.2Radio Guide
5.3Television
5.4Online
5.5Merchandising
5.6Miscellaneous
6Unions
Toggle Unions subsection
6.1Labour issues
6.1.12005 lock-out
7International broadcasts
Toggle International broadcasts subsection
7.1Caribbean
7.2United States
7.2.1Newsworld International and Trio
7.3International broadcast of radio programs
8Controversies
Toggle Controversies subsection
8.1Allegations of bias
8.2Falun Gong and Beyond the Red Wall
8.3CBC President's comparison of Netflix's influence to colonialism
8.4Closed captioning
8.52013 Radio-Canada rebranding
8.6Suspension of local newscasts during the COVID-19 pandemic
8.7CBC Tandem and branded content
8.8Kenneth Muzik verdict
8.9WE Charity v. CBC
8.10Twitter label controversy
9See also
10References
11Further reading
Toggle Further reading subsection
11.1Primary sources
11.2In French
12External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
44 languages
AfrikaansالعربيةAvañe'ẽবাংলাБългарскиCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ՀայերենIdoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoLietuviųBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்TürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikinews
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Canadian public broadcaster
"Radio-Canada" redirects here. For the CBC's main French-language television network, see Ici Radio-Canada Télé. For the CBC's main French-language radio network, see Ici Radio-Canada Première. For the international broadcasting service of the CBC, see Radio Canada International.
Canadian Broadcasting CorporationSociété Radio-CanadaLogo used since 2017CBC Headquarters in Ottawa in 2019TypeCrown corporationIndustry
Mass media
Public broadcasting
Radio
Television
Digital media
PredecessorCanadian Radio Broadcasting CommissionFoundedNovember 2, 1936; 86 years ago (1936-11-02) (radio)September 6, 1952; 70 years ago (1952-09-06) (television)HeadquartersCBC Ottawa Production Centre, Ottawa, Ontario, CanadaArea servedNational; available on terrestrial and cable systems in northern American border communities; available internationally via Internet, Sirius XM and on TVKey people
Michael Goldbloom (Chair)
Catherine Tait (CEO)
Barbara Williams (EVP English Networks)
Michel Bissonnette (EVP French Networks)
Products
Television
Radio
Digital media
Services
CBC Television
Ici Radio-Canada Télé
CBC Radio
CBC News
CBC.ca
Radio-Canada.ca
Revenue CA$503.94 million[a](FY 2021)[1]Operating income  $173.24 million (FY 2021)[1]Net income $142.09 million (FY 2021)[1]Number of employees7,444 (March 2018)[2]Corporation overviewMinister responsiblePascale St-Onge, Minister of Canadian HeritageKey documentBroadcasting Act, 1991
Websitecbc.radio-canada.ca Footnotes / references
^ Revenue was $1,898.29 million including government funding
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (French: Société Radio-Canada), branded as CBC/Radio-Canada, is the Canadian public broadcaster for both radio and television.[3] It is a Crown corporation that serves as the national public broadcaster, with its English-language and French-language service units commonly known as CBC and Radio-Canada, respectively.
Although some local stations in Canada predate the CBC's founding, the CBC is the oldest existing broadcasting network in Canada. The CBC was established on November 2, 1936.[4] The CBC operates four terrestrial radio networks: The English-language CBC Radio One and CBC Music, and the French-language Ici Radio-Canada Première and Ici Musique. (International radio service Radio Canada International historically transmitted via shortwave radio, but since 2012 its content is only available as podcasts on its website.) The CBC also operates two terrestrial television networks, the English-language CBC Television and the French-language Ici Radio-Canada Télé, along with the satellite/cable networks CBC News Network, Ici RDI, Ici Explora, Documentary Channel (partial ownership), and Ici ARTV. The CBC operates services for the Canadian Arctic under the names CBC North, and Radio-Canada Nord. The CBC also operates digital services including CBC.ca/Ici.Radio-Canada.ca, CBC Radio 3, CBC Music/ICI.mu, and Ici.TOU.TV.
CBC/Radio-Canada offers programming in English, French, and eight indigenous languages on its domestic radio service, and in five languages on its web-based international radio service, Radio Canada International (RCI).[5] However, budget cuts in the early 2010s have contributed to the corporation reducing its service via the airwaves, discontinuing RCI's shortwave broadcasts as well as terrestrial television broadcasts in all communities served by network-owned rebroadcast transmitters, including communities not subject to Canada's over-the-air digital television transition.
The CBC's federal funding is supplemented by revenue from commercial advertising on its television broadcasts. The radio service employed commercials from its inception to 1974, but since then its primary radio networks have been commercial-free. In 2013, the CBC's secondary radio networks, CBC Music and Ici Musique, introduced limited advertising of up to four minutes an hour, but this was discontinued in 2016.
History[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Main articles: History of broadcasting in Canada and Timeline of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
In 1929, the Aird Commission on public broadcasting recommended the creation of a national radio broadcast network. A major concern was the growing influence of American radio broadcasting as U.S.-based networks began to expand into Canada. Meanwhile, Canadian National Railways was making a radio network to keep its passengers entertained and give it an advantage over its rival, CP. This, the CNR Radio, is the forerunner of the CBC. Graham Spry and Alan Plaunt lobbied intensely for the project on behalf of the Canadian Radio League.[6] In 1932 the government of R. B. Bennett established the CBC's predecessor, the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission (CRBC).[7]
Journalists in a CBC newsroom in Montreal in November 1944
The CRBC took over a network of radio stations formerly set up by a federal Crown corporation, the Canadian National Railway. The network was used to broadcast programming to riders aboard its passenger trains, with coverage primarily in central and eastern Canada. On November 2, 1936, the CRBC was reorganized under its present name. While the CRBC was a state-owned company, the CBC was a Crown corporation on the model of the British Broadcasting Corporation, which had been reformed from a private company into a statutory corporation in 1927. Leonard Brockington was the CBC's first chairman.[8]
For the next few decades, the CBC was responsible for all broadcasting innovation in Canada. This was in part because, until 1958, it was not only a broadcaster, but the chief regulator of Canadian broadcasting. It used this dual role to snap up most of the clear-channel licences in Canada. It began a separate French-language radio network in December 1937.[9] It introduced FM radio to Canada in 1946, though a distinct FM service was not launched until 1960.[9][10]
Television broadcasts from the CBC began on September 6, 1952, with the opening of a station in Montreal, Quebec (CBFT), and a station in Toronto, Ontario (CBLT) opening two days later.[11][12] The CBC's first privately owned affiliate television station, CKSO in Sudbury, Ontario, launched in October 1953.[13][14] At the time, all private stations were expected to affiliate with the CBC, a condition that relaxed in 1960–61 with the launch of CTV.
From 1944 to 1962, the CBC split its English-language radio network into two services known as the Trans-Canada Network and the Dominion Network. The latter, carrying lighter programs including American radio shows, was dissolved in 1962, while the former became known as CBC Radio. (In the late 1990s, CBC Radio was rebranded as CBC Radio One and CBC Stereo as CBC Radio Two. The latter was rebranded slightly in 2007 as CBC Radio 2.)
A CBC satellite truck, used for remote television broadcasts
On July 1, 1958, the CBC's television signal was extended from coast to coast. The first Canadian television show shot in colour was the CBC's own The Forest Rangers in 1963.[15] Colour television broadcasts commenced on July 1, 1966, and full-colour service began in 1974.[16][17] In 1978, the CBC became the first broadcaster in the world to use an orbiting satellite for television service, linking Canada "from east to west to north". The mission of CBC is contribution to the "moral economy of the nation".[18]
Frontier Coverage Package[edit]
Starting in 1967 and continuing until the mid-1970s, the CBC offered a "Frontier Coverage Package" of limited television service to remote northern communities.[19] Low-power television transmitters carried a four-hour selection of black-and-white videotaped programs each day. The tapes were recorded in Calgary and flown into a community with a transmitter, put on the air, then transported to another community, often by the "bicycle" method used in television syndication. Transportation delays ranged from one week for larger centres to almost a month for small communities.[20]
CBC North studios in Iqaluit in 2011
The first stations were started in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories; Lynn Lake, Manitoba; and Havre-Saint-Pierre, Quebec, in 1967.[21][19] Another station began operating in Whitehorse, Yukon in November 1968.[22] Additional stations were added from 1969 to 1972.
Most of the stations were reconfigured in 1973 to receive CBC Television programming from the Anik satellite in colour and live with the rest of Canada. Those serving the largest centres signed on with colour broadcasts on February 5, 1973, and most of the others were added before spring of that year.[23] Broadcasts were geared to either the Atlantic Time Zone (UTC−4 or −3), originating from Halifax, or the Pacific Time Zone (UTC−8 or −7), originating from Vancouver,[24] even though the audience resided in communities in time zones varying from UTC−5 to UTC−8; the reason for this was that the CBC originated its programs for the Atlantic Time Zone, and a key station in each time zone would record the broadcast for the appropriate delay of one, two or three hours; the programs were originated again for the Pacific zone. The northern stations picked up one of these two feeds, with the western NWT stations picking up the Pacific feed.[23] Some in northern areas of the provinces were connected by microwave to a CBC broadcast centre within their own province.[25]
Some of these stations used non-CBC call signs such as CFWH-TV in Whitehorse, CFYK in Yellowknife, CFFB in Frobisher Bay and CHAK in Inuvik, while some others used the standard CB_T callsign but with five letters (e.g. CBDHT). Uplinks in the North were usually a temporary unit brought in from the south. A ground station uplink was later established in Yellowknife, and then in Whitehorse and Iqaluit.
Television programs originating in the North began in 1979 with the monthly news magazine Our Ways, produced in Yellowknife,[26] and graduated to half-hour newscasts (Northbeat and Igalaaq) on weekdays in 1995.[27] Until then, there were occasional temporary uplinks for such things as territorial election returns coverage; Yukon had the first such coverage in 1985,[28] though because it happened during the Stanley Cup playoffs, equipment was already spoken for, so CBC rented the equipment of CITV-TV Edmonton to use in Whitehorse that evening.
2011 transition to digital television[edit]
See also: Digital television in Canada and List of defunct CBC and Radio-Canada television transmitters
Radio Canada International transmitter site (CKCX) in Sackville, New Brunswick in 2009. The site was closed in 2012.
The CRTC ordered that in 28 "mandatory markets", full power over-the-air analogue television transmitters had to cease transmitting by August 31, 2011. Broadcasters could either continue serving those markets by transitioning analogue transmitters to digital or cease broadcasting over-the-air. Cable, IPTV, and satellite services are not involved or affected by this digital transition deadline.
While its fellow Canadian broadcasters converted most of their transmitters to digital by the Canadian digital television transition deadline of August 31, 2011, the CBC converted only about half of the analogue transmitters mandatory to digital (15 of 28 markets with CBC TV, and 14 of 28 markets with SRC). Due to financial difficulties reported by the corporation, the corporation published a plan whereby communities that receive analogue signals by re-broadcast transmitters in mandatory markets would lose their over-the-air (OTA) signals as of the deadline. Rebroadcast transmitters account for 23 of the 48 CBC and SRC transmitters in mandatory markets. Mandatory markets losing both CBC and SRC over-the-air signals include London, Ontario (metropolitan area population 457,000) and Saskatoon, Saskatchewan (metro area 257,000). In both of those markets, the corporation's television transmitters are the only ones that were not converted to digital.
On July 31, 2012, the CBC shut down all of its approximately 620 analogue television transmitters, following an announcement of these plans on April 4, 2012. This reduced the total number of the corporation's television transmitters across the country to 27. According to the CBC, this would reduce the corporation's yearly costs by $10 million. No plans have been announced to use subchannels to maintain over-the-air signals for both CBC and SRC in markets where the corporation has one digital transmitter. In fact, in its CRTC application to shut down all of its analogue television transmitters, the CBC communicated its opposition to the use of subchannels, citing, amongst other reasons, costs.[29] CBC/R-C claims that only 1.7 percent of Canadian viewers actually lost access to CBC and Radio-Canada programming due to the very high penetration of cable and satellite. In some areas (particularly remote and rural regions), cable or satellite have long been essential for acceptable television.[30]
Fallout over the Ghomeshi affair[edit]
In 2015, after allegations that CBC Radio host Jian Ghomeshi had harassed colleagues, Ghomeshi was placed on leave; his employment was terminated in October when the CBC indicated that they had "graphic evidence" that he had injured a female employee.[31] The corporation commissioned an independent investigation. The resulting report by Janice Rubin, a partner at law firm Rubin Thomlinson LLP, discussed employee complaints about Ghomeshi that were not seriously considered by the CBC. Rubin concluded that CBC management had "failed to take adequate steps" when it became aware of Ghomeshi's "problematic behaviour".[32]
Ghomeshi was charged by police on multiple counts of sexual assault but was found not guilty of all but one of these in March 2016. He was to be tried in June on the last remaining charge, relating to a complainant who had also worked at CBC; her name was later revealed to be Kathryn Borel. On May 11, 2016, however, the Crown withdrew the charge after Ghomeshi signed a peace bond (which does not include an admission of guilt) and apologized to Borel.[33] Borel was critical of the CBC for its handling of her initial complaint about Ghomeshi's behaviour. "When I went to the CBC for help, what I received in return was a directive that, yes, he could do this and, yes, it was my job to let him", she told the assembled media representatives.[34]
The CBC apologized to Borel publicly on May 11 in a statement by the head of public affairs Chuck Thompson. "What Ms. Borel experienced in our workplace should never have happened and we sincerely apologize ...", he stated.[35] The corporation has also maintained that it had accepted Rubin's report and had "since made significant progress" on a revised policy of improved training and methods for handling bullying and harassment complaints.[36]
The Rubin report "contained several recommendations on how the CBC can change its workplace culture. One of those recommendations included the creation of a work and human rights ombudsperson who employees could use to raise concerns about the workplace." The CBC also severed its relationship "with two top executives, Chris Boyce, the former head of CBC Radio, and Todd Spencer, the head of human resources for English services".[32]
In a Toronto Star article by Jacques Gallant from May 11, 2016, public relations expert Martin Waxman spoke of a "damning indictment" of the CBC which included the following comment. "Yes, they did their inquiry, but if I were the CBC, I would think strongly about what is wrong with the culture and what they can do to repair it", he said.[36] The Star also quoted employment lawyer Howard Levitt stating that "harassment has not been fully addressed at the CBC" in his estimation. Levitt called the Rubin report a "whitewash" and reiterated his suggestion that a federal commission should conduct a more detailed inquiry into workplace issues at the public broadcaster.[36]
Federal elections and copyright claims[edit]
42nd Canadian Parliament: lawsuit threats[edit]
During the 2015 Canadian federal election campaign, the CBC issued cease-and-desist letters to the Broadbent Institute, the Conservative Party of Canada (CPC), the Liberal Party of Canada, and the New Democratic Party of Canada, accusing them of using copyrighted footage from CBC news programming in their campaign advertising without permission. The Liberals and NDP complied with the letters, pulling the ads in question, while the Broadbent Institute and the Conservatives persisted. Eventually, however, rather than go to court, the Broadbent Institute and the Conservatives agreed to remove the offending material, and as such, the CBC did not pursue them further for these alleged infractions in 2015.[37]
43rd Canadian Parliament: trial of suit[edit]
In October 2019, two weeks before the 2019 Canadian federal election, the CBC sued the CPC for using excerpts from its leaders' debates in campaign material. The CBC petitioned for an injunction against the CPC continuing to use the excerpts as well as seeking an acknowledgement from the CPC and its executive director, Dustin Van Vugt, that the party had "engaged in the unauthorized use of copyright-protected material". Furthermore, the CBC indicated that the clips in question were "taken out of context and are edited and relied on to make partisan points for the benefit" of the CPC.[38] In response, the CPC stated that 17 seconds of footage had been used and the video in question had been removed before the lawsuit was filed, and expressed "grave concern that this decision was made on the eve of an election that CBC is to be covering fairly and objectively".
Intellectual property academic Michael Geist stated that the use of the footage was likely covered by fair dealing provisions.[39][40] CBC President and CEO Catherine Tait contends that she does not believe that the use of journalistic material for partisan ads is covered by the "fair dealing" exemption of the Copyright Act.[37]
Resolution: court allows fair dealing[edit]
On May 13, 2021, the CPC lawsuit was dismissed in the Federal Court of Canada, with Justice Phelan's clarification that the CPC's use was fair and allowable.[41] The decision made precedent. "Prior to this decision, Canadian jurisprudence held that to meet the requirements of criticism and review, the copyrighted work in use must be critiqued and analyzed. Furthermore, the Court held that for attribution of the source and author, the inclusion of the CBC's logo was sufficient" to meet Copyright Act requirements.[42]
Logos and slogans[edit]
Logos used by the CBC1940–19581974–19851985–19921992–presentFlag of the CBC
The original logo of the CBC, designed by École des Beaux Arts student Hortense Binette[43] and used between 1940 and 1958, featured a map of Canada (and from 1940 to 1949, Newfoundland) and a thunderbolt design used to symbolize broadcasting.
In 1958, the CBC adopted a new logo for use at the end of network programs. Designed by scale model artist Jean-Paul Boileau, it consisted of the legends "CBC" and "Radio-Canada" overlaid on a map of Canada. For French programming, the "Radio-Canada" was placed on top.
The "Butterfly" logo was designed for the CBC by Hubert Tison in 1966 to mark the network's progressing transition from black-and-white to colour television, much in the manner of the NBC peacock logo. It was used at the beginning of programs broadcast in colour and was used until all CBC television programs had switched to colour. A sketch on the CBC Television program Wayne & Shuster once referred to this as the logo of the "Cosmic Butterfly Corporation".[44]
The fourth logo, known internally as "the gem", was designed for the CBC by graphic artist Burton Kramer in December 1974, and it is the most widely recognized symbol of the corporation. The main on-air identification featured the logo kaleidoscopically morphing into its form while radiating outward from the center of the screen on a blue background. This animated version, which went to air in December 1974, is also known colloquially as "The Exploding Pizza". The appearance of this logo marked the arrival of full-colour network television service. The large shape in the middle is the letter C, which stands for Canada; the radiating parts of the C symbolize broadcasting, and the blue circle the logo was placed in represented the world, so the entire logo, according to Kramer, represented the idea of "Canada broadcasting to the world". The original theme music for the 1974 CBC ident was a three-note woodwind orchestral fanfare accompanied by the voiceover "This is CBC" or "Ici Radio-Canada".[45] This was later replaced by a different, and more familiar 11-note woodwind orchestral jingle, which was used until December 31, 1985.[46][47]
The updated one-colour version of the gem/pizza logo, created by Hubert Tison and Robert Innes,[43] was introduced on January 1, 1986, and with it was introduced a new series of computer graphic-generated television idents for the CBC and Radio-Canada. These idents consisted of different background colours corresponding to the time of the day behind a translucent CBC gem logo, accompanied by different arrangements of the CBC's new, synthesized five-note jingle. The logo was changed to one colour, generally dark blue on white, or white on dark blue, in 1986. Print ads and most television promos, however, have always used a single-colour version of this logo since 1974. During 1986, they use gold platings on their idents to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the CBC.
In 1992, the CBC updated its logo design to make it simpler and more red (or white on a red background). The new logo design, created by Swiss-Canadian design firm Gottschalk + Ash,[43] reduces the number of geometric sections in the logo to 13 instead of the previous logo's 25, and the "C" in the centre of the logo became a simple red circle. According to graphic designer Todd Falkowsky, the logo's red colour also represents Canada in a symbolic way. With the launch of the current design, new television idents were introduced in November of that year, also using CGI. Since the early 2000s, it has also appeared in white (sometimes red) on a textured or coloured background. It is now CBC/Radio-Canada's longest-used logo, surpassing the original incarnation of the Gem logo and the CBC's 1940 logo.
CBC television slogans have been periodically updated:
1966: "Television is CBC"
1970: "When you watch, watch the best"
1977: "Bringing Canadians Together"
1980: "We Are the CBC"
1984: "Look to us for good things" (general) / "Good to Know" (news and public affairs)
1986–1989: "The Best on the Box"
1989–1992: "CBC and You"
1992–1994: "Go Public" / "CBC: Public Broadcasting" (to emphasize that CBC is a public broadcaster)
1995–2001: "Television to Call Our Own" and "Radio to Call Our Own"
2001–2007: "Canada's Own"
2007–2014: "Canada Lives Here"
2009–present: "Mon monde est à Radio-Canada, SRC" (English translation: My world is on Radio-Canada)
2011 and 2016: "Yours to Celebrate" (French: "Un monde à célébrer") (for the CBC's 75th and 80th anniversaries)
2014–2023: "Love CBC" / "Fall for CBC"
2023–present "It's a Canada thing"[48]
Personalities[edit]
Main article: List of Canadian Broadcasting Corporation personalities
Notable CBC alumni have included future Governors General of Canada Jeanne Sauvé, Adrienne Clarkson, and Michaëlle Jean, as well as future Quebec premier René Lévesque.
Knowlton Nash, whose career at the CBC spanned the years between 1965 and 1992, was a beloved and trusted news anchor for the news programme The National. Peter Mansbridge then took over the reins at the premiere Canadian news broadcast until July 1, 2017.[49][50] For a time Mansbridge shared the anchor position with Wendy Mesley, who was forced to retire after a 38-year career under a cloud for inappropriate use of language in two closed editorial meetings.[51]
A staple in Canadian living rooms since 1952 is the weekly Saturday night broadcast Hockey Night in Canada. Personalities like Foster Hewitt, Dick Irvin, Harry Neale were amongst the light-blue jacketed commentators of the 20th century. Ron MacLean and Don Cherry were famous for their commentary during the second intermission Coach's Corner until Cherry was fired for remarks during broadcast on Remembrance Day 2019 that were widely condemned as anti-immigrant.[52]
Organization[edit]
Main article: List of assets owned by Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Mandate[edit]
The 1991 Broadcasting Act[53] states that:[54]
... the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, as the national public broadcaster, should provide radio and television services incorporating a wide range of programming that informs, enlightens and entertains;
... the programming provided by the Corporation should:
be predominantly and distinctively Canadian,
reflect Canada and its regions to national and regional audiences, while serving the special needs of those regions,
actively contribute to the flow and exchange of cultural expression,
be in English and in French, reflecting the different needs and circumstances of each official language community, including the particular needs and circumstances of English and French linguistic minorities,
strive to be of equivalent quality in English and French,
contribute to shared national consciousness and identity,
be made available throughout Canada by the most appropriate and efficient means and as resources become available for the purpose, and
reflect the multicultural and multiracial nature of Canada.
In June 2018, the Government of Canada launched a review of the Broadcasting Act as well as the Telecommunications Act, and the CBC mandate is subject to updating following the review's completion. The CBC also submitted a paper to the Review Panel entitled "Our Culture, Our Democracy: Canada in the Digital World", which included various recommendations regarding the strengthening of public broadcasting within the global broadcasting market. The Review Panel submitted its final report and recommendations on January 29, 2020.[54]
Management[edit]
As a crown corporation, the CBC operates at arm's length (autonomously) from the government in its day-to-day business. The corporation is governed by the Broadcasting Act[53] of 1991, under a board of directors and is directly responsible to Parliament through the Department of Canadian Heritage. General management of the organization is in the hands of a president, who is appointed by the Governor General of Canada in Council, on the advice of the prime minister.
According to The Hill Times, a clause in Bill C-60—an omnibus budget implementation bill introduced by the government of Stephen Harper in 2013—"appears to contradict a longstanding arm's-length relationship between the independent CBC and any government in power".[55][56] The clause allows the "prime minister's cabinet to approve salaries, working conditions and collective bargaining positions for the CBC".[55]
On September 1, 2007, the CBC became subject to the federal Access to Information Act.[57][58]
Board of directors[edit]
In accordance with the Broadcasting Act, a board of directors is responsible for the management of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. The board is made up of 12 members, including the chair and the president and CEO. A current list of directors is available from the Canadian Governor in Council here.[59]
As of April 2021[update], the CBC's board of directors page lists:[60]
Michael Goldbloom
Catherine Tait (president and CEO)
Guillaume Aniorté
Suzanne Guèvremont
René Légère
Sandra Mason
Jennifer Moore Rattray
François R. Roy
Rita Shelton Deverell
Sandra Singh
Bill Tam
Marie Wilson
Presidents[edit]
1936–1939: Leonard Brockington
1940–1944: René Morin
1944–1945: Howard B. Chase
1945–1958: A. Davidson Dunton
1958–1967: J. Alphonse Ouimet
1968–1972: George F. Davidson
1972–1975: Laurent A. Picard
1975–1982: A.W. Johnson
1982–1989: Pierre Juneau
1989: William T. Armstrong
1989–1994: Gérard Veilleux
1994–1995: Anthony S. Manera
1995–1999: Perrin Beatty
1999–2007: Robert Rabinovitch
2008–2018: Hubert T. Lacroix
2018–present: Catherine Tait[61]
Ombudsmen[edit]
English (CBC)
William Morgan
David Bazay (1995 – October 30, 2005)
Vince Carlin (January 2006 – December 2010)
Kirk LaPointe (November 2010 – 2012)
Esther Enkin (January 1, 2013 – December 2018)[62]
Jack Nagler (January 2019 – present)[63]
French (Radio-Canada)
Bruno Gauron (1992)
Mario Cardinal (1993–1997)
Marcel Pépin (1997–1999)
Renaud Gilbert (2000–2007)
Julie Miville-Dechêne (April 1, 2007 – July 2011)[64]
Pierre Tourangeau (November 14, 2011 – April 2016)
Guy Gendron (April 1, 2016 – 2021)[65]
Financing[edit]
For the fiscal year 2006, the CBC received a total of $1.53 billion from all revenue sources, including government funding via taxpayers, subscription fees, advertising revenue, and other revenue (e.g., real estate). Expenditures for the year included $616 million for English television, $402 million for French television, $126 million for specialty channels, a total of $348 million for radio services in both languages, $88 million for management and technical costs, and $124 million for "amortization of property and equipment". Some of this spending was derived from amortization of funding from previous years.[66]
Among its revenue sources for the year ending March 31, 2006, the CBC received $946 million in its annual funding from the federal government, as well as $60 million in "one-time" supplementary funding for programming. However, this supplementary funding has been repeated annually for a number of years. This combined total is just over a billion dollars annually and is a source of heated debate. To supplement this funding, the CBC's television networks and websites sell advertising, while cable/satellite-only services such as CBC News Network additionally collect subscriber fees, in line with their privately owned counterparts. The CBC's radio services do not sell advertising except when required by law (for example, to political parties during federal elections).
CBC's funding differs from that of the public broadcasters of many European nations, which collect a licence fee, or those in the United States, such as PBS and NPR, which receive some public funding but rely to a large extent on voluntary contributions from individual viewers and listeners. A Nanos Research poll from August 2014 conducted for Asper Media (National Post, Financial Post) showed 41% of Canadians wanted funding increased, 46% wanted it maintained at current levels, and only 10% wanted to see it cut.[67]
The network's defenders note that the CBC's mandate differs from private media's, particularly in its focus on Canadian content; that much of the public funding actually goes to the radio networks; and that the CBC is responsible for the full cost of most of its prime-time programming, while private networks can fill up most of their prime-time schedules with American series acquired for a fraction of their production cost. CBC supporters also point out that additional, long-term funding is required to provide better Canadian dramas and improved local programming to attract and sustain a strong viewership.[citation needed]
According to the Canadian Media Guild, the $115-million deficit reduction action plan cuts to CBC which started with the 2012 budget and were fully realized in 2014, amounted to "one of the biggest layoffs of content creators and journalists in Canadian history". The 2014 cuts combined with earlier ones totalled "3,600 jobs lost at CBC since 2008. The CMG asked the federal government to reverse the cuts[68] and to repeal Clause 17 of omnibus budget bill C-60 "to remove government's interference in CBC's day-to-day operations".[68]
In September 2015, the Canadian Media Guild announced that the CBC planned to sell all of its properties across Canada to gain a temporary increase in available funds. Media relations manager Alexandra Fortier denied this and stated that the corporation planned to sell only half of its assets.[69]
In September 2015, Hubert Lacroix, then-president of CBC/Radio-Canada, spoke at the international public broadcasters' conference in Munich, Germany. He claimed for the first time that public broadcasters were "at risk of extinction".[70] The Canadian Media Guild responded that Lacroix had "made a career of shredding" the CBC by cutting one quarter of its staff—approximately 2,000 jobs since 2010 under Lacroix's tenure. More than 600 jobs were cut in 2014 in order "to plug a $130-million budget shortfall".[70] Isabelle Montpetit, president of Syndicat des communications de Radio-Canada (SCRC), observed that Lacroix was hand-picked by Stephen Harper for the job as president of the CBC.[70] For the fiscal year 2015, the CBC received $1.036 billion from government funding and took 5% funding cuts from the previous year.[71]
In 2015, the Liberal Party was returned to power. As part of its election platform, it promised to restore the $115 million of funding to the CBC that was cut by the Harper Government, over three years, and add $35 million, for a total extra funding of $150 million.[72]
On November 28, 2016, the CBC issued a request for $400 million in additional funding, which it planned to use towards removing advertising from its television services, production and acquisition of Canadian content, and "additional funding of new investments to face consumer and technology disruption". The broadcaster argued that it had operated "[under] a business model and cultural policy framework that is profoundly broken", while other countries "[reaped] the benefits of strong, stable, well-funded public broadcasters".[73]
CBC has received $1.2 billion annually from the federal government since fiscal 2018. Government funding increased to almost $1.4 billion for 2020-2021 to cover 'retroactive salary inflation' and potential issues arising from the pandemic. It returned to $1.2 billion the following year.[74]
Services[edit]
See also: List of assets owned by Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
News[edit]
Main article: CBC News
See also: Le Téléjournal
CBC News journalist and camera crew reporting on a rally in support of Alexei Navalny outside the Russian consulate in Montreal, January 2021
CBC News is the largest broadcast newsgathering operation in Canada, providing services to CBC radio as well as CBC News Network, local supper-hour newscasts, CBC News Online, and Air Canada's in-flight entertainment. Recent CBC News services are also proving popular, such as news alerts to mobile phones and PDAs. Desktop news alerts, e-mail alerts, and digital television alerts are also available.[citation needed]
Radio[edit]
Main article: CBC Radio
Further information: List of defunct CBC radio transmitters in Canada
CBC Radio has six separate services: three in English, known as CBC Radio One, CBC Music, and CBC Radio 3; and three in French, known as Ici Radio-Canada Première, Ici Musique, and Ici Musique Classique. Over the years, a number of CBC radio transmitters, with a majority of them on the AM band, have either moved to FM or have shut down completely. The CBC plans to phase out more CBC AM transmitters across Canada.[75] This goal however remains to be seen in light of the CBC budget cutbacks.
CBC Radio One and Première focus on news and information programming, though they also air some music programs, variety shows, and comedy; in the past, they aired some sports programming as well. Both of these services used to broadcast primarily on the AM band, but many stations have moved over to FM. CBC Music and Ici musique is found exclusively on FM, airing arts and cultural programming, with a focus on music. CBC Radio 3, found only online, plays exclusively-independent Canadian music.[citation needed]
A live audience attending a special anniversary broadcast of Information Morning, a morning show on CBHA-FMCBC Radio also operated two shortwave services. The first, Radio Nord Québec, broadcast domestically to Northern Quebec on a static frequency of 9.625 MHz; and the other, Radio Canada International, provided broadcasts to the United States and around the world in eight languages. Both shortwave services were shut down in 2012 due to budget cuts; the Sackville transmitter site was dismantled in 2014.[76] Additionally, the Radio One stations in St. John's and Vancouver operated shortwave relay transmitters, broadcasting at 6.16 MHz. Some have suggested[77] that CBC/Radio-Canada create a new high-power shortwave digital radio service for more effective coverage of isolated areas.
In November 2004, the CBC, in partnership with Standard Broadcasting and Sirius Satellite Radio, applied to the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) for a licence to introduce satellite radio service to Canada. The CRTC approved the subscription radio application, as well as two others for satellite radio service, on June 16, 2005. Sirius Canada launched on December 1, 2005, with a number of CBC Radio channels, including the new services CBC Radio 3 and Bande à part.[citation needed] The CBC once owned a stake in Sirius XM Canada, but exited from ownership following a reorganization announced in 2016.[78]
In some areas, especially national or provincial parks, the CBC also operates an AM or FM transmitter rebroadcasting weather alerts from the Meteorological Service of Canada's Weatheradio Canada service.[citation needed]
Long-range radio plan[edit]
The CBC's long-range radio plan (LRRP) was developed by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) in collaboration with the CBC to identify those FM frequencies that would likely be required to deliver the CBC's radio services to the maximum number of Canadians. The CBC is not subject to any conditions or expectations concerning its LRRP. The CBC noted that Première Chaîne (now Ici Radio-Canada Première) and CBC Radio One were available to about 99% of the Canadian population. The CBC stated that it plans to maintain its radio service but has no plans to grow the coverage area. It described the LRRP as a planning vehicle and indicated that it would no longer use it. Given reductions in public funding to the CBC and given that Première Chaîne and Radio One are available to the vast majority of Canadians, the Commission considers that the CBC's plan to maintain current coverage and discontinue the LRRP is reasonable. Accordingly, the Commission accepted the CBC's proposal to discontinue the LRRP.[79]
Radio Guide[edit]
Beginning in 1981, CBC Radio launched the monthly magazine Radio Guide, which included CBC Radio program listings alongside feature content, such as profiles of musicians and writers and behind the scenes looks at CBC programs.[80] The magazine was released both by subscription and as a newsstand title. In 1984, due to budgetary pressures at the CBC, the magazine began accepting paid advertising from outside clients;[81] in 1985, due to further budget cuts, the magazine was discontinued as a standalone title, and instead became a supplement in Saturday Night.[82] In 1988, the magazine was sold to Core Group Publishers of Vancouver,[83] and continued in this format until 1997, when it was discontinued due to a declining subscriber base.[84]
Television[edit]
Further information: CBC Television, Ici Radio-Canada Télé, List of CBC Television stations, and List of CBC Television Programs
Maison Radio-Canada in Montreal holds the headquarters of CBC Radio-Canada's French-language outputThe Canadian Broadcasting Centre in Toronto serves as the CBC's English-language master control point
The CBC operates two national broadcast television networks: CBC Television in English, and Ici Radio-Canada Télé in French. Like private broadcasters, both of these networks sell advertising but offer more Canadian-produced programming. All CBC television stations are owned and operated by the CBC itself and carry a common schedule, aside from local programming and other regional variation (such as the CBC North stations in Nunavut, the Northwest Territories, and the Yukon carrying an additional newscast in the Inuktitut language and a weekly Cree program), and CBET-DT in Windsor amending its non-primetime schedule at various points due to program rights conflicts with Detroit stations.[citation needed]
Both CBC's English and French networks previously had a number of private affiliates owned by third-party owners. However, the majority of them have either been bought by the CBC and subsequently shut down during the transition to digital television, or have switched to other networks and program services. The only remaining privately owned affiliate of any CBC-owned network is Ici Radio-Canada Télé affiliate CKRT-DT in Rivière-du-Loup (which is part of a triplestick also containing private affiliates for Quebec's two private networks).[citation needed]
One of the most popular shows is the weekly Saturday night broadcast of NHL hockey games. In English, the program is known as Hockey Night in Canada, and in French, it was called La Soirée du hockey. Both shows began in 1952. The French edition was discontinued in 2004, though Radio-Canada stations outside of Quebec simulcast some Saturday night games produced by RDS until 2006. The network suffered considerable public embarrassment when it lost the rights to the show's theme music following a protracted lawsuit launched by the song's composer and publishers.[85] In 2013, the exclusive national media rights to the NHL were acquired by Rogers Media, although Rogers would reach an agreement with the CBC to license the Hockey Night in Canada brand for use in its coverage of Saturday-night games, and broker a version of the broadcasts to CBC at no charge.[86][87]
The CBC also wholly owns and operates three specialty television channels—the news channels CBC News Network and Ici RDI, and the French-language network Ici Explora. It also owns a managing interest in the Francophone arts service ARTV, and Documentary Channel.[citation needed]
CBC provides viewers with interactive on-demand television programs every year through digital-cable services like Rogers Cable.[citation needed]
Children's programming air under the commercial-free preschool programming block called CBC Kids. In French, the children's programming block is Zone Jeunesse on ICI Radio-Canada Télé.[citation needed]
Online[edit]
Further information: CBC.ca and Ici TOU.TV
The CBC has two main websites: CBC.ca is in English and was established in 1996;[88] and Radio-Canada.ca is in French.[89] The websites allow the CBC to produce sections that complement the various programs on television and radio.
In May 2012, as part of an initiative to improve its service in "underserved" markets, the CBC launched a CBC Hamilton news operation for Hamilton, Ontario. With the Hamilton area already within the broadcast range of CBC Radio and CBC Television's services in Toronto, the outlet focuses exclusively on digital content, including a section of the CBC News website oriented towards the market. CBC Hamilton reporters have occasionally filed reports for the CBC's television news output, in the event of major stories centred upon the city.[90][91]
Also in 2012, the corporation launched CBC Music, an internet radio service that produces and distributes 40 music-related channels, including the existing audio streams of CBC Radio 2 and CBC Radio 3.[92][93] In October 2019, the CBC launched a successor to the CBC Music platform known as CBC Listen, which encompasses the CBC's radio, music, as well as podcast output.[94]
CBC offers feature-length documentary films through the documentary Channel [sic], a digital television station.[95]
In February 2023, the CBC indicated for the first time that it has begun preliminary planning toward the prospect that future broadcasting will take place entirely on internet streaming platforms rather than traditional radio or television transmissions, although it has not yet announced a specific target date for any changeover.[96]
Merchandising[edit]
Established in 2002, CBC Merchandising operates retail locations and CBCshop.ca;[97] its educational sales department, CBC Learning,[98] sells CBC content and media to educational institutions; as well as licensing brands such as Hockey Night in Canada (whose branding is still owned by the CBC)[99] and Coronation Street (as a Canadian licensee under arrangement from ITV Studios).[citation needed]
Miscellaneous[edit]
CBC Records is a Canadian record label that distributes CBC programming, including live concert performances and album transcripts of news and information programming such as the Massey Lectures, in album format. Music albums on the label, predominantly in the classical and jazz genres, are distributed across Canada in commercial record stores, while albums containing spoken word programming are predominantly distributed by the CBC's own retail merchandising operations.[citation needed]
CBC provides news, business, weather and sports information on Air Canada's inflight entertainment as Enroute Journal.[citation needed]
Unions[edit]
Unions representing employees at CBC/Radio-Canada include:[100]
Canadian Media Guild (CMG)[101] represents on-air, production, technical, administrative and support staff outside of Québec and Moncton.
Association of Professionals and Supervisors (APS)*[102]
American Federation of Musicians of the United States and Canada (AFM)*[103]
Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio Artists (performers; ACTRA)[104]
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (stagehands; IATSE)[105]
Writers Guild of Canada (WGC)*[106]
Association des réalisateurs (AR)[107]
Syndicat des communications de Radio-Canada (SCRC)[108]
Société des auteurs de la radio, de la télévision et du cinéma (SARTeC).[109]
Syndicat Canadien de la fonction publique, Conseil des sections locales, Groupe des employé(e)s de bureau et professionnel(le)s (SCFP).[110]
Société professionnelle des auteurs-compositeurs du Québec (SPACQ)[111]
Syndicat des technicien(ne)s et des artisan(e)s du réseau français (STARF).[112]
Union des artistes (UDA)[113]
Labour issues[edit]
During the summer of 1981 there was a major disruption of CBC programming as the technicians union, the National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians, went on strike. Local newscasts were cut back to the bare minimum. This had the effect of delaying the debut of The Journal, which had to wait until January 1982.[citation needed]
The CBC has been affected by a number of other labour disputes since the late 1990s:
In early 1999, CBC English- and French-network technicians in all locations outside Quebec and Moncton, members of the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, went on strike.[114] The Canadian Media Guild was set to strike as well, but the CBC settled with both unions.[115]
A similar dispute, again involving all technicians outside Quebec and Moncton, occurred in late 2001 and concluded by the end of the year.[116]
In spring 2002, on-air staff in Quebec and Moncton (again, on both English and French networks) were locked out by local management, leaving, among other things, NHL playoff games without commentary on French television.[117]
2005 lock-out[edit]
On August 15, 2005, 5,500 employees of the CBC (about 90%) were locked out by CBC CEO Robert Rabinovitch in a dispute over future hiring practices. At issue were the rules governing the hiring of contract workers in preference to full-time hires. The locked-out employees were members of the Canadian Media Guild, representing all production, journalistic and on-air personnel outside Quebec and Moncton, including several foreign correspondents. While CBC services continued during the lock-out, they were primarily made up of repeats, with news programming from the BBC and newswires.[118] Major CBC programs such as The National and Royal Canadian Air Farce were not produced during the lock-out; some non-CBC-owned programs seen on the network, such as The Red Green Show, shifted to other studios. Meanwhile, the locked-out employees produced podcasts and websites such as CBCunplugged.com.[citation needed]
After a hiatus, talks re-opened. On September 23, Joe Fontana, the federal minister of labour, called Rabinovitch and Arnold Amber—the president of the CBC branch of the Canadian Media Guild—to his office for talks aimed at ending the dispute. Late in the evening of October 2, 2005, it was announced that the CBC management and staff had reached a tentative deal which resulted in the CBC returning to normal operations on October 11. Some speculated that the looming October 8 start date for the network's most important television property, Hockey Night in Canada, had acted as an additional incentive to resolve the dispute.
While all labour disputes resulted in cut-back programming and numerous repeat airings, the 2005 lock-out may have been the most damaging to CBC. All local programming in the affected regions was cancelled and replaced by abbreviated national newscasts and national radio morning shows. BBC World (television) and World Service (radio), as well as Broadcast News feeds, were used to provide the remainder of original news content, and the CBC website consisted mainly of rewritten wire copy. Some BBC staff protested against their material being used during the CBC lock-out. "The NUJ and BECTU will not tolerate their members' work being used against colleagues in Canada", said a joint statement by BBC unions. The CMG questioned whether, with its limited Canadian news content, the CBC was meeting its legal requirements under the Broadcasting Act and its CRTC licences.[119]
Galaxie (which CBC owned at the time) supplied some music content for the radio networks. Tapes of aired or produced documentaries, interviews and entertainment programs were also aired widely. Selected television sports coverage, including that of the Canadian Football League, continued, but without commentary.
As before, French-language staff outside of Quebec were also affected by the 2005 lock-out, although with Quebec producing the bulk of the French networks' programming, those networks were not as visibly affected by the dispute apart from local programs.
International broadcasts[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)A QSL card from 1956 promoting CBC Radio-Canada's international service
CBC Television, Ici Radio-Canada Télé, CBC News Network, and all other CBC channels can be received through cable and satellite TV channel providers across Canada, such as Bell Satellite TV, Telus Optik TV, Rogers Cable, Videotron, Cogeco, and other smaller TV providers. The CBC and Radio-Canada channel signals can also be obtained free of charge, over-the-air, through antenna receivers in Canada's largest markets as well as in some border states along the Canada–U.S. border; however, CBC is not obtainable as a "free-to-air" (FTA) channel on FTA satellites.
Caribbean[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Several Caribbean Countries carry feeds of CBC TV, including in:
Bahamas, on the coral wave (Cable Bahamas) television system in the Northern Bahamas (Channel 8).
Barbados,
on the Caribbean Broadcasting Corporation-owned cable system Multi-Choice TV (Channel 703); and
on the Columbus Communications-owned cable system FLOW Barbados (Channel 132).
Bermuda, on the CableVision digital cable service.
Grenada, carried on Columbus Communications-owned cable system FLOW Grenada.
Jamaica, distributed in areas served by FLOW Jamaica.
Trinidad and Tobago, on the Columbus Communications Trinidad Ltd. (CCTL) television system.
United States[edit]
CBC radio and television stations can be received over-the-air and have a significant audience in U.S. border communities such as Bellingham and Seattle, Washington; Buffalo, New York; Detroit, Michigan; and Burlington, Vermont.[120] Farther from the border, some American fans of the network have acquired Canadian IP addresses to stream its sports broadcasts.[121] Some CBC programming is also rebroadcast on local public radio, such as New Hampshire Public Radio, Vermont Public Radio and the Maine Public Broadcasting Network. CBC television channels are available on cable systems located near the Canada–U.S. border. For example, CBET Windsor is available on cable systems in the Detroit, Michigan, and Toledo, Ohio, areas; much of the rest of the state of Michigan receives CBMT Montreal on cable. CBUT Vancouver is broadcast on Comcast in the Seattle area. At night, the AM radio transmissions of both CBC and Radio-Canada services can be received over much of the northern portion of the United States, from stations such as CBW in Winnipeg, CBK in Saskatchewan, and CJBC in Toronto.[citation needed]
On September 11, 2001, several American broadcasters without their own news operations, including C-SPAN, carried the CBC's coverage of the September 11 attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C. In the days after September 11, C-SPAN carried CBC's nightly newscast, The National, anchored by Peter Mansbridge. The quality of this coverage was recognised specifically by the Canadian Journalism Foundation; editor-in-chief Tony Burman later accepted the Excellence in Journalism Award (2004), for "rigorous professional practice, accuracy, originality and public accountability", on behalf of the service.[citation needed]
C-SPAN has also carried CBC's coverage of major events affecting Canadians, including: Canadian federal elections, key proceedings in Parliament of Canada, Six days in September 2000 that marked the death and state funeral of Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the power outage crisis in summer 2003, U.S. presidential elections (e.g. in 2004, C-SPAN picked up The National the day after the election for the view from Canadians), state visits and official visits of American presidents to Canada, and Barack Obama inauguration in 2009.[citation needed]
Several PBS stations also air some CBC programming. However, these programs are syndicated by independent distributors, and are not governed by the PBS "common carriage" policy. Other American broadcast networks sometimes air CBC reports, especially for Canadian events of international significance. For example, in the early hours after the Swissair Flight 111 disaster, CNN aired CBC's live coverage of the event. Also in the late 1990s, CNN Headline News aired a few CBC reports of events that were not significant outside Canada.[citation needed]
Newsworld International and Trio[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
From 1994 to 2000, the CBC, in a venture with Power Broadcasting (former owner of CKWS in Kingston), jointly owned two networks:
Newsworld International (NWI), an American cable channel that rebroadcast much of the programming of CBC Newsworld (now known as CBC News Network).
Trio, an arts and entertainment channel.
In 2000, the CBC and Power Broadcasting sold these channels to Barry Diller's USA Networks. Diller's company was later acquired by Vivendi Universal, which in turn was partially acquired by NBC to form NBCUniversal. NBCUniversal still owns the Trio brand, which no longer has any association with the CBC (and became an Internet-only broadband channel which was later folded into Bravo.) The channel was shut down and was replaced with the NBCUniversal channel Sleuth (later known as Cloo).
However, the CBC continued to program NWI, with much of its programming simulcast on the domestic Newsworld service. In late 2004, as a result of a further change in NWI's ownership to the INdTV consortium (including Joel Hyatt and former U.S. Vice-President Al Gore), NWI ceased airing CBC programming on August 1, 2005, when it became Current TV. Current later folded and became Al Jazeera America on August 20, 2013.
International broadcast of radio programs[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Some CBC Radio One programs, such as Definitely Not the Opera, WireTap, Q, and As It Happens, also air on some stations associated with American Public Media or Public Radio International. CBC Radio One (with a special feed that exclusively contains CBC-produced content and no regional programs) and Ici Radio-Canada Première (a simulcast of its Montreal flagship CBF-FM) are available to SiriusXM subscribers in the United States.
Controversies[edit]
Allegations of bias[edit]
See also: CBC News § Bias allegations
Several outlets and politicians over many years have accused CBC News of bias.[122][123][124][125] Surveys have found the Canadian public perceives a centre-left/Liberal Party bias in CBC News coverage.[126][127][128][129][130]
Falun Gong and Beyond the Red Wall[edit]
In November 2007, the CBC replaced its documentary about persecution of Falun Gong members in China, Beyond the Red Wall: Persecution of Falun Gong,[131] at the last minute with a rerun episode regarding President Pervez Musharraf in Pakistan. The broadcaster had said to the press that "the crisis in Pakistan was considered more urgent and much more newsworthy", but sources from within the network itself had stated that the Chinese government had called the Canadian Embassy and demanded repeatedly that the program be taken off the air. The documentary in question was to air on Tuesday, November 6, 2007, on CBC Newsworld, but was replaced.[132] The documentary aired two weeks later on November 20, 2007,[131] after editing.[133]
CBC President's comparison of Netflix's influence to colonialism[edit]
In January 2019 CBC President Catherine Tait came under fire for comparing Netflix to colonial imperialism in India and parts of Africa.[134] Tait did not offer an apology and Heather Mallick defended her comparison.[135] Tait's comments made American headlines with J.J. McCullough of The Washington Post suggesting that "the state-sponsored" corporation shielded her from criticism and that the Canadian industry "was built in part as a bulwark against American influence".[136] Canadian TV critic John Doyle, who has long criticized what he perceives as the low standards of Canadian programming, claimed that CBC had a problem of complacency rather than imperialism.[137]
Closed captioning[edit]
CBC Television was an early leader in broadcasting programming with closed captioning for the hearing impaired, airing its first captioned programming in 1981.[138] Captioned programming in Canada began with the airing of Clown White in English-language and French-language versions on CBC Television and Radio-Canada, respectively. Most sources list that event as occurring in 1981,[139] while others list the year as 1982.[140]
In 1997, Henry Vlug, a deaf lawyer in Vancouver, filed a complaint with the Canadian Human Rights Commission (CHRC) alleging that an absence of captioning on some programming on CBC Television and Newsworld infringed on his rights as a person with a disability. A ruling in 2000 by the Canadian Human Rights Tribunal, which later heard the case, sided with Vlug and found that an absence of captioning constituted discrimination on the basis of disability. The Tribunal ordered CBC Television and Newsworld to caption the entirety of their broadcast days, "including television shows, commercials, promos and unscheduled news flashes, from sign on until sign off".[141]
The ruling recognized that "there will inevitably be glitches with respect to the delivery of captioning", but that "the rule should be full captioning". In a negotiated settlement to avoid appealing the ruling to the Federal Court of Canada, the CBC agreed to commence 100% captioning on CBC Television and Newsworld beginning November 1, 2002.[142] CBC Television and Newsworld are apparently the only broadcasters in the world required to caption the entire broadcast day. However, published evidence asserts that CBC is not providing the 100% captioning ordered by the Tribunal.[143]
In 2004, Canadian retired senator Jean-Robert Gauthier, a hard-of-hearing person, filed a complaint with the CHRC against Radio-Canada concerning captioning, particularly the absence of real-time captioning on newscasts and other live programming. As part of the settlement process, Radio-Canada agreed to submit a report on the state of captioning, especially real-time captioning, on Radio-Canada and RDI.[144] The report, which was the subject of some criticism, proposed an arrangement with Cité Collégiale, a college in Ottawa, to train more French-language real-time captioners.[145][146]
English-language specialty networks owned or co-owned by CBC, including documentary, have the lower captioning requirements typical of larger Canadian broadcasters (90% of the broadcast day by the end of both networks' licence terms).[147][148] ARTV, the French-language specialty network co-owned by CBC, has a minimum captioning requirement of 53%.[149]
2013 Radio-Canada rebranding[edit]
On June 5, 2013, the CBC announced that it would be phasing out the Radio-Canada brand from its French-language broadcast properties, and unifying them under names prefixed with "Ici" ('this is' or literally 'here'). For instance, the CBC planned to re-brand Télévision de Radio-Canada as "Ici Télé", Première Chaîne as "Ici Première", and move its French-language website from Radio-Canada.ca to ici.ca. Radio-Canada vice-president Louis Lalande stated that the new name complemented its multi-platform operations, while also serving as an homage to the broadcaster's historic station identification slogan since the 1930s, "ici Radio-Canada" ('this is Radio-Canada').[150]
Logo for Ici Radio-Canada Première, the corporation's French-language radio network
The announcement was criticized by politicians (such as Minister of Canadian Heritage James Moore), who felt that the new "Ici" brand was too confusing, and that the CBC was diminishing the value of the Radio-Canada name through its plans to downplay it. The re-branding was also criticized for being unnecessary spending, reportedly costing $400,000, in the midst of budget cuts at the CBC.[151] On June 10, in response to the criticism, Hubert Lacroix apologized for the decision and announced that the new brands for its main radio and television networks would be revised to restore the Radio-Canada name alongside Ici, such as "Ici Radio-Canada Première".[152][153]
In March 2013, the CBC also filed a trademark lawsuit against Sam Norouzi, founder of CFHD-DT—a new multicultural station in Montreal—seeking to have Norouzi's registration on the name "ICI" (as an abbreviation of "International Channel/Canal International") cancelled because it was too similar to its own "Ici"-related trademarks. Despite Norouzi's trademark having been registered prior to the registration of CBC's, the corporation argued that Norouzi's application contained incorrect information surrounding his first use of the name in commerce, and also asserted the long-time use of "Ici Radio-Canada" as part of its imaging. Norouzi stated that he planned to fight the CBC in court.[154][155]
Suspension of local newscasts during the COVID-19 pandemic[edit]
On March 18, 2020, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, CBC News suspended all of its English-language local newscasts (excluding those carried by CBC North, which include an English-language newscast and a second in Inuktitut), replacing them in their time slots with simulcasts of CBC News Network.[156][157] The CBC stated that this was done in order to pool its local resources to CBC News Network as a "core news offering".[158] An employee memo suggested that a lack of staff at the Canadian Broadcasting Centre and "much stricter newsgathering protocols" were another factor in the decision.[157] CBC News editor-in-chief Brodie Fenlon similarly stated that the broadcaster had decided to consolidate news production because their outbreak had "place[d] incredible demands on our staff and our infrastructure", and not all jobs associated with television production were capable of being done remotely.[157] These consolidations only affect news programming on CBC Television; CBC Radio and Ici Radio-Canada Télé have continued to carry local content.[157]
The CBC's decision faced criticism for its lack of clear justification, and resulting reduction of local news coverage during a major news event—especially in markets where CBC's local newscasts are the only news programming specific to the region (such as Prince Edward Island, which resulted in criticism of the move by Premier Dennis King).[159] The Canadian Media Guild stated that the decision "flies in the face of past experience which has proven time and again that in times of significant events, Canadians trust and rely on CBC news coverage, particularly for its widespread coverage of regional and local impact, something no other Canadian network can match".[157] Montreal Gazette media writer Steve Faguy questioned whether this change was in compliance with the individual stations' CRTC licences, as all CBC stations are required to produce local newscasts daily, and a minimum amount of local programming per-week.[157]
In an editorial for The Globe and Mail, former CTV News president Robert Hurst stated that it was unusual for a journalistic operation to cut back on its operations during a crisis, and suggested that decision was the culmination of "decades of CBC News mismanagement" and low ratings in comparison to competitors (such as CTV, Global, and Citytv) in most markets.[160] The Toronto Star similarly wrote that the CBC had "decided to bail on local communities across the country".[161]
On March 24, the CBC announced that it would introduce "an expanded 30-minute local news segment on CBC News Network" beginning March 25, and would "make every effort to have all of the dedicated local shows back up on the main network".[162]
CBC Tandem and branded content[edit]
Since 2016, the CBC has utilized branded content, publishing advertisements that are designed to look, read or sound similarly to news produced by the CBC itself.[163] In 2020 the CBC formally launched a division called Tandem that focused its branded content marketing efforts, promising corporate clients they can "leverage" the CBC's reputation by aligning their message with the "trust Canadians have in our brand". Over 500 current and former employees called on CBC management to end Tandem, saying "in an era of 'fake news', where misinformation is already rife, it undermines trust ... what's worse, it uses [Canadians'] tax dollars to do it."[164] In November 2020 former employees requested that the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission investigate Tandem as part of the public broadcaster's upcoming licence renewal, concerned the content blurs the lines between advertising and news, adding that "Canadians have a right to a national public broadcaster that puts their news and information needs ahead of the desires of corporate clients."[165]
Private sector media criticized the CBC's ability to dominate the Canadian advertising market, using taxpayer-funded subsidies to unfairly compete with local newspapers and broadcasters, driving them out of business.[166]
CBC President and CEO Catherine Tait states that the CBC has since put "guardrails" in place that will ensure there is no confusion between CBC journalism and commercial advertising.[163]
The CRTC integrated its investigation of Tandem into its hearings on the renewal of CBC's federal broadcast licences, ultimately renewing the CBC's licence from 2022 to 2027 and approving the Tandem program. The CRTC required that the CBC must establish, maintain, and publicize their guidelines on branded content as well as measure whether branded content is confusing to Canadians.[166]
The CRTC decision has been criticized as allowing the CBC to disregard its mandate as a public broadcaster, transforming into a "publicly funded commercial broadcaster".[167]
Kenneth Muzik verdict[edit]
On December 15, 2021, Manitoba Bench Justice Herbert Rempel ordered the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation to pay investment advisor Kenneth Wayne Muzik nearly $1.7 million in damages for a story it had aired in June 2012 featuring a former client, William Worthington, who complained about the performance of his investment portfolio. Muzik was represented by William Gange of Gange Collins Holloway.[168] In March 2022, Rempel ordered CBC to pay nearly $300 thousand to cover Muzik's legal fees.[169]
WE Charity v. CBC[edit]
On February 8 2022, WE Charity's New York-based affiliate filed a lawsuit against the CBC for defamation.[170][171][172][173] The 230-page complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, where the case was assigned to district judge Randall D. Moss.[170][173]
The lawsuit alleges that, in an hour-long piece for its series The Fifth Estate, the CBC broadcast claims by reporters Mark Kelly and Harvey Cashore that the CBC knew to be false, including that WE Charity had exaggerated the number of schoolhouses it had built in Kenya and deceived donors about how their money had been spent. WE Charity accused the CBC of fabricating quotes and using misleading editing to support what WE called a "preconceived narrative."[170][171]
Joe Patrice of the Above the Law website, which covers legal news, reviewed the details of the lawsuit and called it a "mirror image" of Dominion Voting Systems v. Fox News Network.[172][174] Dominion Voting Systems, originally a Canadian company, choose to sue Fox News Network in the United States, ultimately settling for $787.5 million.[175] Similarly, WE Charity, whose American operations are incorporated in Williamsville, New York, sued the CBC in the United States, in both instances despite the hurdle of the "actual malice" standard established in New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, which is unique to American law and requires that the defendant either knew that or didn't care if its representations were false.[172]
On May 4, the CBC's attorneys filed a motion to dismiss the case per forum non conveniens, saying that it would be more appropriately heard before a Canadian court.[170][171][172][174][173] WE Charity replied on June 10, countering that the CBC's allegations had hindered its fundraising efforts in the United States, where many of its donors are located.[174][173] On June 27, Judge Moss denied the CBC's motion, ruling that the case would proceed in the District Court.[170][171][174][173] Moss rejected the CBC's assertion that travel from Canada to the United States was unduly burdensome, and held that the relative ease of modern electronic discovery and document transfer between jurisdictions made the existence of documentary evidence in Canada a negligible hurdle to litigation in the United States.[174] Patrice suggests that, even ten years prior, the CBC's motion might have succeeded, and sees the decision as an example of how the rise of digital media is revolutionizing the legal profession.[174]
Twitter label controversy[edit]
On April 17, 2023, the main CBC account on Twitter was labeled as "government-funded media". In response, the CBC announced they would cease posting on Twitter, similarly to NPR after the initial controversy surrounding Elon Musk's decisions as Twitter CEO. Later, Elon Musk tweeted that in response to the CBC's claim that they were "less than 70% government-funded," Twitter was changing the label to "69% government-funded media."[176][177] According to the CBC annual revenue report, 70.6% of revenue came from government spending in 2019-2020, while 65.6% of revenue came from the government in 2021-2022.[178][179]
On May 9, the CBC announced that it would resume activity on some of its Twitter accounts.[180]
See also[edit]
Canada portalMedia portal
CBC Museum
Concentration of media ownership
List of assets owned by Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
List of public broadcasters by country
List of public service radio stations
Media in Canada
Public Francophone Radios
Réseau de l'information
References[edit]
^ a b c "CBC/Radio-Canada Annual Report 2020–2021". site-cbc.radio-canada.ca. Archived from the original on September 16, 2022. Retrieved September 16, 2022.
^ "CBC/Radio-Canada Annual Report 2017–2018". site-cbc.radio-canada.ca. Archived from the original on August 8, 2019. Retrieved August 8, 2019.
^ McCausland, Tammy (June 1, 2010). "The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation". Maple Leaf Web. Archived from the original on October 18, 2017. Retrieved May 25, 2017.
^ Canadian Communications Foundation Archived March 15, 2005, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Radio Canada International goes off-air, moving online-only after 67 years of shortwave service". J-Source. June 25, 2012. Archived from the original on July 1, 2017. Retrieved June 6, 2013.
^ Babe, Robert. "Graham Spry". The Canadian Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on January 6, 2019. Retrieved April 5, 2019.
^ Museum of Broadcast Communications (2004). Encyclopedia of radio. Volume 1, A-E. Michael C. Keith, Christopher H. Sterling. London. p. 417. ISBN 978-0-203-48428-9. OCLC 1082196633. Archived from the original on March 17, 2023. Retrieved April 22, 2021.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ "1936: CBC Radio takes to the air". CBC. Archived from the original on November 2, 2015.
^ a b "CBC Radio-Canada French Radio Network | History of Canadian Broadcasting". www.broadcasting-history.ca. Archived from the original on April 22, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ "CBC Through the Years". cbc.radio-canada.ca. Archived from the original on January 1, 2020. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ "CBC makes its first television broadcast". Your Museum. Your Stories. Archived from the original on April 22, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ "CBC MAKES ITS FIRST TELEVISION BROADCAST". Archived from the original on September 28, 2015.
^ "CBC Television Network | History of Canadian Broadcasting". www.broadcasting-history.ca. Archived from the original on April 22, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ Torontoist (September 6, 2008). "Historicist: Television Comes to Toronto". Torontoist. Archived from the original on April 22, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ "CBC TV's The Forest Rangers celebrates 50th anniversary". thestar.com. June 14, 2013. Archived from the original on April 22, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ "CBC in living colour – CBC Archives". Archived from the original on May 7, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ International, Radio Canada (September 6, 2016). "History: Television begins in Canada, Sept.06, 1952". RCI | English. Archived from the original on April 22, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2021.
^ Mosaic, Taras (2015). The ever-shrinking world of public broadcasting.
^ a b Roth, Lorna (September 27, 2017). "Television Broadcasting North of 60". In D'Haenens, Leen (ed.). Images of Canadianness: Visions on Canada's Politics, Culture, and Economics. University of Ottawa Press. pp. 147–166. ISBN 978-0-7766-2709-0. Archived from the original on April 18, 2022. Retrieved July 17, 2022.
^ Hunter, Gordon (1980). Native communications in Canada uses of and access to the broadcast media in the 1970s (PDF) (M.A.). University of Windsor (Canada). Archived from the original on March 17, 2023. Retrieved April 10, 2023.
^ Roth, Lorna (2005). Something New in the Air: The Story of First Peoples Television Broadcasting in Canada. McGill–Queen's University Press. p. 71. ISBN 978-0-7735-7244-7. OCLC 243600946.
^ "Now It's Tuesday For CBC TV". Whitehorse Daily Star. November 21, 1968. p. 2. Archived from the original on April 11, 2023. Retrieved April 11, 2023.
^ a b "First live TV broadcasting due in North via satellite". The Vancouver Sun. February 2, 1973. p. 22. Archived from the original on March 19, 2023. Retrieved April 10, 2023.
^ "A TV Survey of the Yukon, NWT, Nfld and Northern Quebec". Whitehorse Daily Star. February 7, 1973. p. 20. Archived from the original on March 31, 2023. Retrieved March 31, 2023.
^ Hume, Steve (January 15, 1973). "Remote outposts linked by phone". Edmonton Journal. p. 47. Archived from the original on April 11, 2023. Retrieved April 11, 2023.
^ "Annual Report 1979–1980" (PDF). Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. p. 16. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 20, 2023. Retrieved March 19, 2023.
^ "Nightly news program to debut Tuesday". Whitehorse Daily Star. November 9, 1995. p. 14. Archived from the original on March 31, 2023. Retrieved March 31, 2023.
^ "Results on TV, radio". Whitehorse Daily Star. May 13, 1985. p. 4. Archived from the original on April 11, 2023. Retrieved April 10, 2023.
^ "Re: Notice of Decommissioning of CBC/Radio-Canada's Analogue Television Rebroadcasting Transmitters – Reply argument of CBC/Radio-Canada". Archived from the original on June 12, 2017. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "CBC-TV, TVO end analog transmission". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. August 3, 2012. Archived from the original on August 8, 2020. Retrieved December 29, 2019.
^ Hasham, Alyshah (January 29, 2016). "CBC fired Jian Ghomeshi after seeing 'graphic evidence': internal memo". Toronto Star. Toronto. Archived from the original on June 9, 2016. Retrieved May 12, 2016.
^ a b Armstrong, James (April 16, 2015). "CBC management condoned Jian Ghomeshi's behaviour: report". Global News. Corus Entertainment Inc. Archived from the original on May 3, 2016. Retrieved May 12, 2016. The fallout from the downfall of one of CBC's biggest stars hit the corporation hard on Wednesday. An independent report found managers at the CBC knew about Jian Ghomeshi's abusive behaviour at work, but did nothing to stop it.
^ Fraser, Laura (May 11, 2016). "Jian Ghomeshi trial: Former CBC radio host signs peace bond, Crown drops sex assault charge". CBC News. Archived from the original on June 13, 2019. Retrieved January 3, 2020. "No workplace friendship or creative environment excuses this sort of behaviour, especially when there's a power imbalance as there was with Ms. Borel", Ghomeshi told the court.
^ "CBC apologizes to Kathryn Borel over handling of Jian Ghomeshi complaint". CBC News. May 11, 2016. Archived from the original on June 12, 2019. Retrieved January 3, 2020. Circumstances around Ghomeshi complaint 'should never have happened', CBC says
^ "Full text: CBC statement on Kathryn Borel and Ghomeshi scandal". 680 News. Rogers Digital Media. May 11, 2016. Archived from the original on January 3, 2020. Retrieved January 3, 2020. We've revised our process for capturing the details of bullying and harassment complaints. We are responding to complaints with renewed discipline and rigour, and learning from the data to improve prevention and early resolution.
^ a b c Gallant, Jacques (May 11, 2016). "Much more change seen as needed at CBC in Jian Ghomeshi's wake". Toronto Star. Toronto. Archived from the original on May 13, 2016. Retrieved May 12, 2016. Corporation says culture shift about workplace harassment is underway, but outsiders are dubious.
^ a b Tait, Catherine (October 16, 2019). "Statement from Catherine Tait: "Why your public broadcaster is defending journalism"". CBC/Radio-Canada. Archived from the original on December 31, 2019. Retrieved January 3, 2020.
^ "CBC taking Conservative Party to court over online election ad". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. October 12, 2019. Archived from the original on July 6, 2021. Retrieved January 21, 2020.
^ Geist, Michael (October 13, 2019). "Opinion: CBC's lawsuit against the Conservatives reveals a broadcaster lost in the digital world". Archived from the original on December 17, 2019. Retrieved January 3, 2020.
^ Higgins, Michael (October 11, 2019). "CBC sues the Conservative party over copyright, 'moral rights' of journalists". National Post. Archived from the original on July 6, 2021. Retrieved January 3, 2020.
^ Phelan, Hon. Mr. Justice (May 13, 2021). "Canadian Broadcasting Corporation v. Conservative Party of Canada". Federal Court of Canada. Archived from the original on September 5, 2021. Retrieved September 4, 2021.
^ Larose, François; Zener, Naomi; Winegust, Tamara Céline; Audet, William; Aucoin, Adam; Fleming, Mitchel (February 11, 2022). "2021 Year in Review: Canadian Copyright". Law Business Research. Lexology. Archived from the original on March 19, 2022. Retrieved March 19, 2022.
^ a b c "Retro revival: CBC's changing logo through the years". CBC News. Archived from the original on November 20, 2011. Retrieved November 20, 2011.
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "YouTube – CBC Butterfly". June 22, 2006. Retrieved February 19, 2011 – via YouTube.
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "YouTube – RARE – Ici Radio-Canada – Musique différente". Retrieved June 29, 2011 – via YouTube.
^ Archived at Ghostarchive and the Wayback Machine: "YouTube – This is CBC 1982". Retrieved June 29, 2011 – via YouTube.
^ "Canadian Broadcasting Corporation logo and television identification storyboard". Ccca.ca. March 15, 2001. Archived from the original on October 18, 2017. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "It's a Canada Thing: Standing Up For Our Industry and Our Stories". cbc.radio-canada.ca. Archived from the original on March 13, 2023. Retrieved March 13, 2023.
^ "Knowlton Nash, longtime anchor of CBC's The National, dead at 86". CBC. May 24, 2014. Archived from the original on March 20, 2022. Retrieved March 20, 2022.
^ "Peter Mansbridge reflects on nearly 50 years at CBC News". CBC. June 30, 2017. Archived from the original on March 20, 2022. Retrieved March 20, 2022.
^ "Wendy Mesley to retire from CBC". CBC. July 5, 2021. Archived from the original on March 20, 2022. Retrieved March 20, 2022.
^ "Why Don Cherry's 'you people' rant on 'Hockey Night in Canada' has such an impact". Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc. November 12, 2019. Archived from the original on March 20, 2022. Retrieved March 20, 2022.
^ a b "Broadcasting Act". Laws.justice.gc.ca. Archived from the original on December 31, 2019. Retrieved January 3, 2020.
^ a b "Mandate Archived April 30, 2021, at the Wayback Machine". CBC/Radio-Canada.
^ a b "Bill C-60: Tories Quietly Taking Control of CBC, Group Alleges". HuffPost. April 30, 2013. Archived from the original on November 17, 2015. Retrieved October 14, 2015.
^ Naumetz, Tim (May 1, 2013). "Feds threatening journalist independence of CBC under new power over wages, benefits, collective bargaining, say critics". The Hill Times. Ottawa. Archived from the original on November 17, 2015. Retrieved October 14, 2015.
^ "SRC Radio-Canada Network | History of Canadian Broadcasting". Canadian Communications Foundation. Archived from the original on May 9, 2023. Retrieved May 9, 2023.
^ "Access to Information". CBC/Radio-Canada. Archived from the original on May 9, 2023. Retrieved May 9, 2023.
^ "Organization Profile – Canadian Broadcasting Corporation". Appointments.gc.ca. July 20, 2012. Archived from the original on September 22, 2013. Retrieved August 15, 2012.
^ "Board of Directors". cbc.radio-canada.ca. Archived from the original on June 5, 2020. Retrieved June 5, 2020.
^ "Catherine Tait chosen as CBC/Radio-Canada president". CBC News. April 3, 2018. Archived from the original on January 17, 2020. Retrieved January 3, 2020.
^ "Esther Enkin Appointed as New CBC Ombudsman". CBC/Radio-Canada. November 28, 2012. Archived from the original on December 3, 2012. Retrieved January 26, 2013.
^ "Ombudsman – CBC/Radio-Canada". Archived from the original on July 13, 2020. Retrieved July 15, 2020.
^ "Bureau de l'ombudsman". CBC/Radio-Canada. Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "À propos de Guy Gendron". CBC/Radio-Canada. April 1, 2016. Archived from the original on September 15, 2018. Retrieved September 15, 2018.
^ "CBC Annual Report 2005-2006" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 9, 2009. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ Csanady, Ashley (September 5, 2014). "Majority of Conservative voters like the CBC: poll". Canada.com. Archived from the original on March 9, 2015. Retrieved May 13, 2015.
^ a b "CBC/Radio-Canada needs more funding and true independence: CMG proposals" (PDF). Canadian Media Guild. July 2014. p. 11. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 12, 2014. Retrieved October 14, 2015.
^ Robinson, Michael (September 22, 2015). "CBC property sell-off questioned by union". Toronto Star. Archived from the original on September 27, 2015. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ a b c Tencer, Daniel (September 18, 2015). "CBC President Hubert Lacroix: Public Broadcasters 'Risk Being Boiled To Death'". The Huffington Post Canada. Archived from the original on October 22, 2015. Retrieved October 14, 2015.
^ "CBC/Radio-Canada Annual Report 2014-2015". Archived from the original on April 6, 2016. Retrieved March 25, 2016.
^ Szklarski, Cassandra (December 7, 2015). "A new era for CBC, hopefully: Things could finally start looking up for the beleaguered public broadcaster in 2016". Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Retrieved December 8, 2015.
^ "CBC/Radio Canada asks for $400M in increased government funding to go ad-free". CBC News. Archived from the original on November 29, 2016. Retrieved November 29, 2016.
^ "2020-2021 Annual Report". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on March 22, 2023. Retrieved March 22, 2023.
^ "CBC/Radio-Canada – Long Range Radio Plan" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on September 20, 2012. Retrieved April 3, 2018.
^ Broadcasting Decision CRTC 2012-602-1 Archived March 5, 2015, at the Wayback Machine, CFFB Iqaluit – New transmitters in Puvirnituq, Kuujjuarapik, Inukjuak, Salluit and Kuujjuaq (Fort Chimo) – Correction, CRTC, November 5, 2012
^ "CBCSRC North/Radio-Canada/Radio One Audibility Improvement Proposal". Cbc.am. Archived from the original on February 17, 2011. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "UPDATE 1-Sirius XM Canada to be taken private by SiriusXM, top Canadian holders". Reuters. May 13, 2016. Archived from the original on February 20, 2023. Retrieved February 20, 2023.
^ Broadcasting Decision CRTC 2013-263 Archived March 4, 2015, at the Wayback Machine, Availability of radio service, CRTC, May 28, 2013
^ "Ideas' producer has to be open to anything". Toronto Star, December 12, 1981.
^ "Radio Guide now carries paid ads". The Globe and Mail, November 7, 1984.
^ "CBC attempting to save Radio Guide". The Globe and Mail, January 10, 1995.
^ "Private firm puts CBC guide on right frequency". Ottawa Citizen, May 1, 1989.
^ "CBC will cease publication of Radio Guide at the end of the month". Ottawa Citizen, February 22, 1997.
^ Campbell, Charles (June 13, 2008). "Mediacheck: How CBC Lost Its Hockey Theme". The Tyee. Archived from the original on July 27, 2020. Retrieved January 3, 2020.
^ "NHL deal with Rogers huge blow to CBC: Mudhar". Toronto Star. November 26, 2013. Archived from the original on November 29, 2013. Retrieved January 26, 2016.
^ "Rogers and CBC sign new 7-year deal for Hockey Night in Canada". Sportsnet.ca. Archived from the original on July 26, 2020. Retrieved March 6, 2020.
^ "CBC.ca – 10th Anniversary". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on January 1, 2020. Retrieved December 29, 2019.
^ "Ici.RadioCanada.ca". CBC/Radio-Canada. Archived from the original on November 12, 2014. Retrieved December 29, 2019.
^ Dunphy, Bill (May 9, 2012). "CBC Hamilton launches digital service". The Hamilton Spectator. Archived from the original on May 12, 2012. Retrieved May 9, 2012.
^ "Old-style local news meets new media in Hamilton, Ont". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on July 27, 2020. Retrieved March 6, 2020.
^ "CBC launches free digital music service". Ottawa Citizen, February 13, 2012. Archived July 6, 2020, at the Wayback Machine
^ "CBC digital music service launched". Toronto: CBC News. February 13, 2012. Archived from the original on February 4, 2013. Retrieved June 26, 2013.
^ Thiessen, Connie (October 7, 2019). "CBC Listen rolls public broadcaster's radio, podcast and music into single app". Broadcast Dialogue. Archived from the original on July 27, 2020. Retrieved March 5, 2020.
^ "documentary Channel". www.cbc.ca. Archived from the original on April 30, 2021. Retrieved April 30, 2021.
^ Marie Woolf, "CBC signals plans to go full streaming, ending traditional TV and radio broadcasts" Archived February 7, 2023, at the Wayback Machine. The Globe and Mail, February 7, 2023.
^ Home Page – CBCCNSUMER Online eStore Archived May 31, 2015, at the Wayback Machine. Cbcshop.ca. Retrieved September 23, 2013.
^ "CBC Learning brings the best in Canadian programming to classrooms". CNW Telbec. June 14, 2007. Archived from the original on October 1, 2015. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ "Canadian trademark data: Application no. 0357653". Canadian Trade-marks Database. Canadian Intellectual Property Office. September 16, 2014. Archived from the original on October 16, 2014. Retrieved September 20, 2014.
^ "Unions and Associations". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on August 18, 2015. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ "cmg.ca". cmg.ca. Archived from the original on September 30, 2013. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "apscbcsrc.org". apscbcsrc.org. Archived from the original on March 5, 2012. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "afm.org". afm.org. Archived from the original on October 23, 1996. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "actra.ca". actra.ca. Archived from the original on October 28, 2013. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "iatseintl.org". iatse-intl.org. Archived from the original on December 3, 2016. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "Writers Guild of Canada". wgc.ca. Archived from the original on April 16, 2018. Retrieved April 3, 2018.
^ "arrq.qc.ca". arrq.qc.ca. Archived from the original on June 4, 2009. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ "scrc.qc.ca". SCRC. Archived from the original on May 8, 2013. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "sacd.fr". sacd.fr. Archived from the original on February 26, 2011. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "scfp.ca". scfp.ca. June 12, 2013. Archived from the original on December 12, 2010. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "Accueil". Spacq. Archived from the original on August 15, 2014. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "starfmtl.qc.ca". starfmtl.qc.ca. Archived from the original on September 22, 2013. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "uniondesartistes.com". uniondesartistes.com. Archived from the original on July 29, 2016. Retrieved October 6, 2013.
^ "CBC Position on CEP Strike Action". Archived from the original on March 4, 2012.
^ CEP, CMG ink deal with CBC Archived September 29, 2007, at the Wayback Machine
^ "Search". Unifor National. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007.
^ "North East RadioWatch: June 3, 2002". Bostonradio.org. June 3, 2002. Archived from the original on May 29, 2012. Retrieved August 15, 2012.
^ "With lockout, depleted CBC struggling to stay timely". The Globe and Mail. August 17, 2005. Retrieved April 24, 2023.
^ "BBC benefits on the backs of CBC employees". Archived from the original on December 11, 2005.
^ Gerstner, Joanne (February 20, 2010). "Canadian TV switch displeases Americans". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 2, 2017. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ Szklarski, Cassandra (February 10, 2014). "Some U.S. viewers turn to CBC amid complaints about NBC's Olympic coverage". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on April 20, 2019. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ Gutstein, Donald (January 6, 2006). "Mediacheck: Behind the CBC's Hit Piece on Medicare". The Tyee. Archived from the original on April 30, 2011. Retrieved January 3, 2020. This distorted and biased attack on our public health care system aired twice on the CBC in December, during the second week of the federal election.
^ "CBC: Not the public's broadcaster after all". National Post. December 11, 2014. Archived from the original on May 5, 2017. Retrieved March 15, 2017.
^ Hopper, Tristan (September 23, 2015). "CBC tries to hide its happy face as Liberals and NDP vow to pump up funding for public broadcaster". National Post. Retrieved May 26, 2015.
^ Amiel, Barbara (June 18, 2015). "Amiel: Why the CBC needs new blood". Maclean's. Archived from the original on December 29, 2019. Retrieved December 29, 2019.
^ "Is CBC Really Biased?". December 1, 2002. Archived from the original on September 6, 2021. Retrieved September 6, 2021.
^ "CBC Television News has a bias problem". July 1, 2002. Archived from the original on September 6, 2021. Retrieved September 6, 2021.
^ "The News Fairness and Balance Report" (PDF). September 2010. Archived (PDF) from the original on May 6, 2021. Retrieved September 4, 2021.
^ "Canadian News Media And "Fake News" Under A Microscope". April 29, 2017. Archived from the original on September 6, 2021. Retrieved September 6, 2021.(registration required)
^ "Survey suggests large number of Canadians have likely read 'fake' news stories". April 29, 2017. Archived from the original on September 7, 2021. Retrieved September 7, 2021.
^ a b Beyond the Red Wall: The Persecution of Falun Gong, Cbc.ca, November 20, 2007. Archived November 19, 2011, at the Wayback Machine
^ 
Star News Services (November 8, 2007). "Falun Gong documentary yanked by CBC". Windsor Star. Canwest Global (Windsor Star's Star News Services). pp. B1. Archived from the original (Newspaper) on December 2, 2008. Retrieved November 8, 2007. CBC pulls documentary on Falun Gong at demands of Chinese Government
^ CBC still tinkering with Falun Gong documentary Archived October 20, 2012, at the Wayback Machine, Toronto Star, November 20, 2007.
^ "CBC president Catherine Tait compares Netflix to colonialism of the British and French empires". National Post. January 31, 2019.
^ "CBC chief stands up to U.S. cultural swamping". Toronto Star. February 4, 2019. Archived from the original on March 25, 2019. Retrieved April 11, 2019.
^ McCullough, J.J. (February 7, 2019). "No, the popularity of American TV in Canada is not 'imperialism'". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 22, 2019. Retrieved April 11, 2019.
^ Doyle, John (February 6, 2019). "CBC's problem is complacency not imperialism". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on July 27, 2020. Retrieved December 29, 2019.
^ "CBC/RadioCanada–History–1980s". CBC/Radio-Canada. Archived from the original on June 28, 2010. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "Welcome to.../Bienvenue à". Collections.ic.gc.ca. May 1, 2001. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "Closed captioning standards and protocol for Canadian English language television programming services" (PDF). Canadian Association of Broadcasters. 2008. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 4, 2003. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ "Vlug v. CBC". Chrt-tcdp.gc.ca. Archived from the original on February 27, 2012. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "Canadian Human Rights Commission :: Resources :: News Room :: News Releases". Chrc-ccdp.ca. Archived from the original on December 1, 2008. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ Clark, Joe (August 3, 2006). "Backgroung: CBC captioning, errors and omissions". Archived from the original on March 4, 2016. Retrieved September 30, 2015.
^ "Canadian Human Rights Commission :: Resources :: What's New". Chrc-ccdp.ca. Archived from the original on December 1, 2008. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "Canadian Human Rights Commission :: Resources :: News Room :: Télévision de Radio-Canada's Working Committee". Chrc-ccdp.ca. Archived from the original on September 2, 2010. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "Response to report on captioning on French CBC channels (Joe Clark: Media Access)". Joe Clark. Archived from the original on December 19, 2010. Retrieved February 19, 2011.
^ "Decision CRTC 2000-453". Archived from the original on December 2, 2008.
^ "Decision CRTC 2000-455". Archived from the original on December 2, 2008.
^ "Decision CRTC 2000-386". Archived from the original on December 2, 2008.
^ "French CBC announces new name: 'Radio' and 'Canada' are out". The Canadian Press. Archived from the original on August 21, 2013. Retrieved September 16, 2013.
^ Faguy, Steve (June 10, 2013). "Radio-Canada's 'Ici' rebranding spells trouble for businessman". The Gazette. Archived from the original on June 15, 2013. Retrieved June 11, 2013.
^ "Radio-Canada retreats on rebranding company as ICI". CBC News. Archived from the original on September 30, 2020. Retrieved January 3, 2020.
^ "Radio-Canada president apologizes for 'Ici' rebranding plan". The Globe and Mail. Toronto. June 10, 2013. Archived from the original on June 11, 2013. Retrieved June 11, 2013.
^ "Radio-Canada's 'Ici' rebranding spells trouble for businessman". The Gazette. Postmedia Network. Archived from the original on June 15, 2013. Retrieved June 11, 2013.
^ Austen, Ian (June 11, 2013). "Quick Reversal for Plan to Rename Canadian Broadcaster". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on April 30, 2021. Retrieved April 30, 2021.
^ Ahearn, Victoria. "CBC temporarily scraps local TV newscasts, except for the North, due to COVID-19". Tri-City News. Archived from the original on March 19, 2020. Retrieved March 19, 2020.
^ a b c d e f Faguy, Steve (March 18, 2020). "CBC suspends local TV newscasts amid COVID-19 outbreak". Archived from the original on March 21, 2020. Retrieved March 21, 2020.
^ "CBC temporarily replaces local evening TV news amid coronavirus pandemic". CBC News. March 18, 2020. Archived from the original on March 19, 2020. Retrieved March 18, 2020.
^ "P.E.I. premier 'incredibly disappointed' in suspension of local CBC news programming". The Guardian. Archived from the original on March 19, 2020. Retrieved March 19, 2020.
^ "CBC's closure of local newscasts amid the coronavirus crisis is a shame". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on March 23, 2020. Retrieved March 23, 2020.
^ "CBC shouldn't shut local news shows in a time of crisis". Toronto Star. March 19, 2020. Archived from the original on March 20, 2020. Retrieved March 23, 2020.
^ "'We totally understand the frustration': CBC president defends local TV news suspension amid pandemic". CBC Radio. March 24, 2020. Archived from the original on March 25, 2020. Retrieved March 24, 2020.
^ a b "CRTC peppers CBC with questions about plans for controversial branded content". CBC News. January 15, 2021. Archived from the original on September 5, 2021. Retrieved September 4, 2021.
^ "An Open Letter to Canadians from CBC Journalists". Archived from the original on September 5, 2021. Retrieved September 4, 2021.
^ "On-air personalities join campaign against CBC's paid content division Tandem". City News. December 9, 2020. Archived from the original on September 5, 2021. Retrieved September 4, 2021.
^ a b "Broadcasting Decision CRTC 2022-165 and Broadcasting Orders CRTC 2022-166 and 2022-167". Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission. June 22, 2022. Archived from the original on July 3, 2022. Retrieved July 6, 2022.
^ "CBC doesn't want to be a cherished public broadcaster". The Globe and Mail. June 28, 2022. Archived from the original on July 6, 2022. Retrieved July 6, 2022.
^ "Judge orders CBC to pay nearly $1.7M in defamation case". CBC News. December 23, 2021. Archived from the original on August 24, 2022.
^ "Manitoba judge orders CBC to pay $295K in defamation case court costs". CBC News. March 22, 2022. Archived from the original on August 24, 2022.
^ a b c d e Queen, Jack (June 28, 2023). "Canadian Broadcasting Corp must face WE Charity defamation lawsuit, U.S. court rules". Reuters.
^ a b c d Dino, Angelica (July 13, 2023). "US District Court refuses to dismiss defamation lawsuit against Canadian Broadcasting Corporation". Canadian Lawyer.
^ a b c d Patrice, Joe (April 18, 2023). "'Actual Malice' Standard Didn't Stop Dominion From Suing Fox News Because Sometimes Networks Leave Whole Paper Trails Of Malice". Above the Law.
^ a b c d e "WE CHARITY v. CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORPORATION". PacerMonitor.
^ a b c d e f Patrice, Joe (July 6, 2023). "Forum Non Motion Fails In The Face Of Modern Litigation Technology". Above the Law.
^ Enrich, David (April 18, 2023). "The $787.5 million deal is one of the largest defamation settlements in U.S. history". The New York Times.
^ Scherer, Steve (April 18, 2023). "Canada public broadcaster's Twitter account labeled '69% Government-funded Media'". Reuters. Archived from the original on April 18, 2023. Retrieved April 18, 2023.
^ Cecco, Leyland (April 17, 2023). "Canada's CBC'pauses'Twitter use after government-funded media label". The Guardian. Archived from the original on April 18, 2023. Retrieved April 18, 2023.
^ "2019-2020 Annual Report - Revenue and Other Sources of Funds". CBC. Retrieved April 24, 2023.
^ "2021-2022 Annual Report - Revenue and Other Sources of Funds". CBC. Retrieved April 24, 2023.
^ Canadian, Press (May 9, 2023). "CBC resumes activity on some of its Twitter accounts after hitting pause over labels". Toronto Star. Retrieved June 7, 2023.
Further reading[edit]
Allen, Gene, and Daniel J. Robinson, eds. Communicating in Canada's Past: Essays in Media History (University of Toronto Press, 2009)
Graham, Sean. "A Canadian Network? The CBC and Television, 1936–1939". Historical Journal of Film, Radio and Television (2014) pp: 1–19.
Ménard, Marion. CBC/Radio-Canada: Overview and Key Issues (Library of Parliament publication No. 2013-92; 2013) online; 11 pages
Murray, Gil. Nothing on but the radio: a look back at radio in Canada and how it changed the world (Dundurn, 2003); Popular history
Peers, Frank W. The politics of Canadian broadcasting, 1920–1951 (University of Toronto Press, 1969)
Taras, David. Digital Mosaic: Media, Power, and Identity in Canada (University of Toronto Press, 2015)
Teer-Tomaselli, Ruth. "Empire and broadcasting in the interwar years: towards a consideration of public broadcasting in the British dominions". Critical Arts (2015) 29#1 pp: 77–93.
Weir, Earnest Austin. The struggle for national broadcasting in Canada (McClelland and Stewart, 1965)
Primary sources[edit]
Bird, Roger, ed. (1988). Documents of Canadian Broadcasting. MQUP. ISBN 9780773580893.
In French[edit]
Bergeron, Raymonde, and Marcelle Ouellette. Voix, visages et legends: Radio-Canada 1936–1986. Montreal, Que.: Entreprises Radio-Canada, 1986. N.B.: The subtitle appears on front cover. 256 p., ill. with b&w ports. ISBN 0-88794-328-4
Witmer, Glenn Edward, and Jacques Chaput, eds. 50 [i.e. Cinquante] ans de radio: Radio-Canada, 1936–1986. Montreal, Que.: Entreprises Radio-Canada, 1986. 47 p., amply ill., chiefly with b&w photos.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
Official website
CBC News site
CBC Channels and Frequencies
vtePublic broadcasting in CanadaTelevisionNationalEnglish-language
CBC
CBC News Network
CBC North
CBC Television
Documentary
BBC Studios1
French-language
Radio-Canada
Ici ARTV2,3
Ici Explora
Ici Radio-Canada Télé
Ici RDI
TV5 Québec Canada2
Unis2
ProvincialEnglish-language
Knowledge Network
TVO
French-language
Télé-Québec
TFO4
TerritorialInuit-language
Inuit Broadcasting Corporation
Radio
CBC Radio
CBC Radio One
CBC Music
CBC Radio 34
Radio-Canada
Ici Radio-Canada Première
Ici Musique
Non-profit
Accessible Media Inc.
AMI-audio4
AMI-tv4
AMI-télé4
Canal M
CFTU-DT
CFTV-DT
CJRT-FM
CKUA Radio Network
Former
BBC Canada2,3
BBC Kids3
CBC/Radio-Canada
Bande à part4
CBC Parliamentary Television Network
Dominion Network
Trans-Canada Network
Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission
Access5
Saskatchewan Communications Network6
Broadcasting Corporation of Newfoundland
Proposed
CBC/Radio-Canada
CBC-2
Télé-2
1Foreign broadcaster.
2Partially privately owned.
3Partially foreign-owned.
4No terrestrial broadcasting.
5Fully privatized
6Private successor continues airing some educational programming as a license requirement
vteCanadian Broadcasting Corporation television servicesEnglish networks
CBC Television
CBC North
CBC News Network
Documentary Channel
French networks
Ici ARTV
Ici Explora
Ici Radio-Canada Télé
Ici RDI
Defunct channels
CBC Parliamentary Television Network
Newsworld International
Trio
Proposed channels
CBC-2
Télé-2
FacilitiesMaster control
Toronto
Montreal
Regional
Ottawa
Vancouver
Brands and assets
Hockey Night in Canada
See also
TV5 Québec Canada
TV5Monde
Unis
Site: CBC.ca
vteCBC RadioTerrestrial networksEnglish
Radio One
CBC Music
French
Ici Radio-Canada Première
Ici Musique
English/Indigenous
CBC North
Digital networks
Radio 3
Ici Musique Classique
Historical networks
Trans-Canada Network
Dominion Network
Bande à part
Special services
Radio Canada International
Weatheradio Canada
Precursors
CNR Radio
Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission
Broadcasting Corporation of Newfoundland
People
Personalities (of both radio and television)
CBC radio stations
SRC radio stations
vteCBC Television stations in CanadaOwned-and-operated stations
CBAT-DT Fredericton
CBCT-DT Charlottetown
CBET-DT Windsor
CBHT-DT Halifax
CBKT-DT Regina
CBLT-DT Toronto
CBMT-DT Montreal
CBNT-DT St. John's
CBOT-DT Ottawa
CBRT-DT Calgary
CBUT-DT Vancouver
CBWT-DT Winnipeg
CBXT-DT Edmonton
CFYK-DT Yellowknife
See also
Ici Radio-Canada Télé TV stations
List of CBC Television stations
List of Ici Radio-Canada Télé television stations
vteCBC Radio stations in CanadaCBC Radio One
CBR Calgary
CBCT-FM Charlottetown
CBY Corner Brook
CBX Edmonton
CBZF-FM Fredericton
CBG Gander
CBT-FM Grand Falls-Windsor
CFGB-FM Happy Valley-Goose Bay
CBHA-FM Halifax
CHAK Inuvik
CFFB Iqaluit
CBYK-FM Kamloops
CBTK Kelowna
CBKA-FM La Ronge
CBDQ-FM Labrador City
CBCL-FM London
CBAM-FM Moncton
CBME-FM Montreal
CBO-FM Ottawa
CBLA-FM-2 Paris (Kitchener/Waterloo)
CBYG-FM Prince George
CFPR Prince Rupert
CBVE-FM Quebec City
CBQR-FM Rankin Inlet
CBD-FM Saint John
CBN St. John's
CBCS-FM Sudbury
CBI Sydney
CBWK-FM Thompson
CBQT-FM Thunder Bay
CBLA-FM Toronto
CBU Vancouver
CBCV-FM Victoria
CBK Watrous (Regina/Saskatoon)
CFWH-FM Whitehorse
CBEW-FM Windsor
CBW Winnipeg
CFYK-FM Yellowknife
CBC Music
CBR-FM Calgary
CBX-FM Edmonton
CBH-FM Halifax
CBM-FM Montreal
CBOQ-FM Ottawa
CBK-FM Regina
CBN-FM St. John's
CBBS-FM Sudbury
CBI-FM Sydney
CBQ-FM Thunder Bay
CBL-FM Toronto
CBU-FM Vancouver
CBE-FM Windsor
CBW-FM Winnipeg
See also
CBC Radio 3
SRC radio stations
Weatheradio Canada
Radio Canada International
CBC North
Bande à part
vteIci Radio-Canada Télé stations in CanadaOwned-and-operated stations
CBAFT-DT Moncton
CBFT-DT Montreal
CBKFT-DT Regina
CBLFT-DT Toronto
CBOFT-DT Ottawa
CBUFT-DT Vancouver
CBVT-DT Quebec City
CBWFT-DT Winnipeg
CBXFT-DT Edmonton
CJBR-DT Rimouski
CKSH-DT Sherbrooke
CKTM-DT Trois-Rivières
CKTV-DT Saguenay
See also
CBC TV stations
vteSociété Radio-Canada radio stationsIci Première
CBAF-FM-15 Charlottetown
CBFG-FM Chisasibi
CHFA-FM Edmonton
CBAF-FM-5 Halifax
CBGA-FM Matane
CBAF-FM Moncton
CBF-FM Montreal
CBOF-FM Ottawa
CBV-FM Quebec City
CBKF-FM Regina
CJBR-FM Rimouski
CHLM-FM Rouyn-Noranda
CBJ-FM Saguenay
CBSI-FM Sept-Îles
CBF-FM-10 Sherbrooke
CBON-FM Sudbury
CJBC Toronto
CBF-FM-8 Trois-Rivières
CBUF-FM Vancouver
CBEF Windsor
CKSB-10-FM Winnipeg
Ici Musique
CBCX-FM Calgary
CBAX-FM Halifax
CBAL-FM Moncton
CBFX-FM Montreal
CBOX-FM Ottawa
CBVX-FM Quebec City
CBRX-FM Rimouski
CBJX-FM Saguenay
CBBX-FM Sudbury
CJBC-FM Toronto
CBUX-FM Vancouver
CKSB-FM Winnipeg
Former private affiliates
CFRG Gravelbourg
CFLM La Tuque
CFNS Saskatoon
CFBR Sudbury
CKLD Thetford Mines
CFCL Timmins
CFDA Victoriaville
CKVM Ville-Marie
See also
Bande à part
Sports extra
CBC Radio 3
CBC radio stations
Weatheradio Canada
Radio Canada International
CBC North
vteCBC Television programmingPrimetime
Arctic Vets (since 2021)
Back in Time for Dinner (since 2018)
Bollywed (since 2023)
CBC Docs POV (since 2017)
CBC Music Backstage Pass (since 2013)
Canada's Smartest Person (since 2012)
Comedy Night with Rick Mercer (2022)
Coroner (since 2019)
Diggstown (since 2019)
The Detectives (since 2018)
Dragons' Den (since 2006)
Endlings (since 2020)
Exhibitionists (since 2015)
Extraordinary Canadians (since 2017)
Fakes (since 2022)
The Filmmakers (since 2017)
Fortunate Son (since 2020)
Fridge Wars (since 2020)
The Great Canadian Baking Show (since 2017)
Halifax Comedy Festival (since 1995)
Heartland (since 2007)
Hello Goodbye (since 2015)
High Arctic Haulers (since 2020)
Hockey Night in Canada (since 1952)
Humour Resources (since 2021)
In the Making (since 2018)
Moonshine (since 2021)
Murdoch Mysteries (since 2012)
The Nature of Things (since 1960)
Northern Rescue (since 2019)
The Porter (since 2022)
Pretty Hard Cases (since 2021)
Push (since 2023)
Race Against the Tide (since 2021)
Run the Burbs (since 2022)
SkyMed (since 2022)
Son of a Critch (since 2022)
Sort Of (since 2021)
Still Standing (since 2015)
Strays (since 2021)
TallBoyz (since 2019)
This Hour Has 22 Minutes (since 1993)
True North Calling (since 2017)
Under New Management (since 2019)
Winnipeg Comedy Festival (since 2002)
Workin' Moms (since 2017)
You Can't Ask That (since 2019)
CBC Kids
Addison (since 2017)
The Adventures of Napkin Man! (since 2013–2017)
The Art Show (since 2017)
Beat Bugs (since 2016)
Becca's Bunch (since 2018)
Big Block SingSong (since 2012)
Big Blue (since 2021)
Daniel Tiger's Neighborhood (since 2012)
Dino Ranch (since 2021)
Dot. (since 2016)
Holy Baloney (since 2018)
Jessie & the Gumboot Kids (since 2018)
Kingdom Force (since 2019)
Lazoo (since 2017)
Molly of Denali (since 2019)
PJ Masks (since 2015)
Remy & Boo (since 2020)
Scout & the Gumboot Kids (since 2015)
The Studio K Show (since 2017)
Super Agent Jon Le Bon! (since 2018)
The Thrillusionists (since 2018)
True and the Rainbow Kingdom (since 2017)
Ukulele U (since 2022)
Wandering Wenda (since 2017)
Will's Jams (since 2014)
You & Me (since 2014)
Late night/Specials
Canadian Reflections (since 1978)
Hot Docs at Home (2020)
Movie Night in Canada (2004–05; since 2020)
What're You At? with Tom Power (2020)
News
Absolutely Canadian (since 2012)
CBC News Network (simulcast; 2016)
The Fifth Estate (since 1975)
Marketplace (since 1972)
The National (since 1954)
The Passionate Eye (since 1993)
Rosemary Barton Live (since 2020)
Web series
21 Black Futures
The 410
Best in Miniature
Bit Playas
Broad Appeal: Living with E's
Canada's a Drag
The Communist's Daughter
Decoys
Detention Adventure
For the Record
Good People
Hey Lady!
How to Buy a Baby
Ming's Dynasty
The New Wave of Standup
Overlord and the Underwoods
Queens
Revenge of the Black Best Friend
Save Me
Undisrupted
Utopia Falls
Zarqa
Upcoming
Black Life: Untold Stories
vteCBC Radio programsCBC Radio One network
As It Happens (since 1968)
Because News (since 2015)
Canada Reads (since 2002)
CBC Radio Overnight (since 1995)
Commotion (debuting 2023)
Cross Country Checkup (since 1965)
The Current (since 2002)
Day 6 (since 2010)
The Debaters (since 2006)
Deep Dive (since 2021)
The Doc Project (since 2015)
The House (since 1977)
Ideas (since 1965)
Laugh Out Loud
Marvin's Room (since 2016)
Massey Lectures (since 1965)
National Research Council Time Signal (since 1939)
The Next Chapter (since 2008)
Now or Never (since 2017)
PlayMe (since 2021)
Podcast Playlist (since 2015)
Q (since 2007)
Quirks & Quarks (since 1975)
Spark (since 2007)
Tapestry (since 1994)
The Story from Here
The Sunday Magazine (since 2020)
Under the Influence (since 2012)
Unreserved (since 2014)
White Coat, Black Art (since 2007)
The World at Six (since 1966)
World Report (since 1958)
The World This Hour (since 2005)
Writers & Company (since 1990)
CBC Radio One regional
CBC Radio One local programming (list)
All in a Day
All Points West
Daybreak Montreal
The Fisheries Broadcast (since 1951)
Here and Now (since 1997)
Information Morning (since 1970)
Maritime Noon (since 1987)
Metro Morning (since 1973)
Ontario Morning
Ontario Today (since 1997)
Radio Noon (since 1969)
CBC Music
About Time (since 2021)
Backstage with Ben Heppner
The Block (since 2021)
CBC Music Live (since 2007)
CBC Music Top 20
C'est formidable! (since 2018)
Drive (since 2008)
Frequencies (since 2021)
Marvin's Room (since 2016)
Mornings (since 2008)
Reclaimed (since 2017)
Saturday Afternoon at the Opera (since 1982)
The Metropolitan Opera (since 1934)
Saturday Night Blues (since 1987)
The Strombo Show (since 2009)
Tempo (since 2008)
Podcasts
More with Anna Maria Tremonti
Someone Knows Something
Uncover
List of CBC Radio programs
vteRadio dramas produced by CBC RadioSeries
Nazi Eyes on Canada (1942)
Jake and the Kid (1950-1956)
Johnny Chase: Secret Agent of Space (1978-1981)
Nero Wolfe (1982)
Steve, The First (2005)
Steve, The Second (2006)
Monsoon House (2006-2009)
Afghanada (2006-2011)
Canadia: 2056 (2007-2008)
Backbencher (2010-2011)
Trust Inc. (2012)
Anthologies
Nightfall (1980-1983)
Vanishing Point (1984-1986)
The Mystery Project (1992-2002)
Plays
The Investigator (1954)
Strike! (2007)
vteMembers of the European Broadcasting UnionActivemembersCurrent
ARD
BR
DLR
DW
HR
MDR
NDR
RB
RBB
SR
SWR
WDR
ARMR
ARMTV
BBC
BHRT
BNR
BNT
ČRo
ČT
CyBC
DR
ENRS
EPTV
ERR
ETV
ERSL
ERT
ERA
ERTU
GPB
GRF
FMM
FTV
RF
HRT
HR
İCTI
İR
İTV
JRTV
KAN
LNC
LRT
LSM
LR
LTV
MMD
MRT
MTVA
Duna
NPO
AVROTROS
BNNVARA
EO
HUMAN
KRO-NCRV
MAX
NOS
NTR
ON
PowNed
Ster
VPRO
WNL
ZWART
NRK
NSTU
ORF
PBS
PR
RAI
ROR
RT
RTBF
RTCG
RTÉ
RTL
RTP
RTS
RTSH
RTVA
RTVE
RNE
TVE
RTVS
RTVSLO
RÚV
SMRTV
SNRT
SRG SSR
SRT
SR
SVT
UR
TDA
TG4
TL
TRM
TRT
TT
TV 2 (DK)
TV 2 (NO)
TVP
TVR
UKIB
ITV
S4C
STV
VR
VRT
Yle
ZDF
Suspended
BTRC
C1R
RDO
MK
OP
VGTRK
Former
A3R
C4
C+
COPE
CRCA
ČST
E1
ER
ERTT
GRMC
RMC
TMC
IBA (GB)
IBA (IL)
ITA
ITCA
JRT
LJBC
MBA
MR
MTV (FI)
MTV (HU)
NERIT
OFRT
ORTF
RTF
SER
SRo
STV
TDF
TF1
TMC
TV4
UJRT
Associate membersCurrent
ABC (AU)
ABC (US)
APM
CBC/SRC (CA)
CBS
CMG
CCTV
CGTN
CNR
CRI
FPA
Free
ICRT
IRIB
KA
KBS
MBC (MU)
NBAB
NBC
NHK
NPR
ORTAS
PART
RB
RNZ
RTHK
RTM
SABC
SBS
SMG
TBS/JORX-DTV
TEME
TVNZ
UCTV
WFMT
Former
AFMN
ANB
AIR
ATV
CBC (BB)
EMI
FTN
GRTS
IBB
JCC
KNR
MBC (KR)
MPR
NACB
NTV
NTVC
PBC
PTV (PK)
QR
RCR
RCTV
RTS
TFM/JOAU-FM
TVA
TVB
TVM (MR)
UAERTVD
ZBC
ApprovedparticipantsCurrent
Arte
CAT
Cellnex
Euronews
JPMRD
RTV
TV5Monde
Former
MEBC
RETE
RTRN
SNTC
UTRI
vte Department of Canadian HeritageOffices
Minister of Canadian Heritage
Minister of Diversity, Inclusion and Youth
Minister of Sport and Persons with Disabilities
ComponentsDepartmental agencies
Library and Archives Canada
National Battlefields Commission
National Film Board of Canada
Crown corporations
Canada Council for the Arts
Canada Science and Technology Museum Corp.
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Canadian Museum for Human Rights
Canadian Museum of History Corp.
Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21
Canadian Museum of Nature
Canadian Race Relations Foundation
National Arts Centre
National Gallery of Canada
Telefilm Canada
Administrative tribunals
Canadian Cultural Property Export Review Board
Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission
Special operating agencies
Canadian Conservation Institute
Canadian Heritage Information Network
Branches
Sport Canada
Anti-Racism Secretariat
Jurisdiction
Arts
Broadcasting
Canadian symbols
Conservation
Copyright
Film
Fundamental freedoms
Human rights
Literature
Multiculturalism
National museums
Official bilingualism
Performing arts
Sport
Legislation
Broadcasting Act
Canadian Multiculturalism Act
Copyright Act (cultural policy)
Official Languages Act (Part VII)
Former Canadian Heritage organizations
Parks Canada
Public Service Commission
National Capital Commission
Status of Women
Authority control International
ISNI
VIAF
2
National
Germany
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
2
Artists
MusicBrainz
Other
MusicBrainz label
2
SNAC
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Canadian_Broadcasting_Corporation&oldid=1172764642"
Categories: Canadian Broadcasting CorporationFederal departments and agencies of CanadaCanadian federal Crown corporationsDepartment of Canadian HeritageCanadian brandsCanadian news websitesCompanies based in OttawaPublicly funded broadcastersMultilingual broadcastersGovernment agencies established in 19361936 establishments in OntarioTelevision broadcasting companies of CanadaCanadian companies established in 1936Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: location missing publisherPages with login required references or sourcesArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from July 2023Use Canadian English from December 2019All Wikipedia articles written in Canadian EnglishArticles containing French-language textArticles needing additional references from June 2018All articles needing additional referencesPages using multiple image with auto scaled imagesArticles containing potentially dated statements from April 2021All articles containing potentially dated statementsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2020Articles with unsourced statements from April 2021Articles needing additional references from April 2021Commons category link from WikidataOfficial website different in Wikidata and WikipediaArticles with ISNI identifiersArticles with VIAF identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with MusicBrainz identifiersArticles with MusicBrainz label identifiersArticles with SNAC-ID identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 29 August 2023, at 04:46 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width