History of taxation Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
History of taxation1,168 FollowersRecent papers in History of taxationTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleЧай и чайная торговля в Российской империи в XIX – начале ХХ вв. (диссертация) Sokolov I.A. Tea & tea trade in Russian Empire in XIX – the beginning of the XX centuriesЧай и чайная торговля в Российской империи в XIX – начале ХХ вв.Sokolov I.A. Tea & tea trade in Russian Empire in XIX – the beginning of the XX centuriesSave to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Sokolov•  140  Marketing, Religion, History, Cultural HistoryReview of E. A. Heaman, _Tax, Order, and Good Government: A New Political History of Canada, 1867-1917_ (MQUP, 2017)There has never been a book quite like Tax, Order, and Good Government, a history of Canada's first half-century of political development in which "the language of outraged taxpayers is given prominent place," in Canadian scholarship and... moreThere has never been a book quite like Tax, Order, and Good Government, a history of Canada's first half-century of political development in which "the language of outraged taxpayers is given prominent place," in Canadian scholarship and not simply because the history of taxation has gone essentially unwritten since J. Harvey Perry's Taxes, Tariffs and Subsidies was published in 1955 or because political history more broadly became methodologically moribund in the 1980s and is only slowly recovering recently after two decades of desperate, life-sustaining interventions.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Tough•  6  Canadian History, Taxation, Canadian Political History, Poverty and InequalityL’impôt sur le revenu de Joseph Caillaux (1910)Le ministre des finances Joseph Caillaux a fait adopter le projet d’impôt sur le revenu qui a profondément transformé le système fiscal français. Dans le recueil de ses discours intitulé « L’impôt sur le revenu » (1910), il fait œuvre de... moreLe ministre des finances Joseph Caillaux a fait adopter le projet d’impôt sur le revenu qui a profondément transformé le système fiscal français. Dans le recueil de ses discours intitulé « L’impôt sur le revenu » (1910), il fait œuvre de théoricien en expliquant la signification toujours actuelle de cette réforme. Tous les auteurs actuels lui en sont redevables, quand bien même il n’a fait que concrétiser les efforts de soixante ans de combat politique.The income tax bill of Finance Minister Joseph Caillaux has profoundly transformed the French tax system. In his book "The Income Tax" (1910), he is the theoretician of the still current meaning of this reform. Nowadays, all authors use his work, even though he has only finally shaped sixty years of political struggle.« L’impôt sur le revenu de Joseph Caillaux (1910) », REIDF, 2019, n° 3, dossier « Les grandes œuvres fiscales », pp. 359-365Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabrice Bin•  5  Tax Policy, History of taxation, Joseph Caillaux, Theory of TaxationEl precio de la fe en la Castilla bajomedievalSave to LibraryDownloadby Ángel Galán Sánchez•  7  Muslim-Christian Relation, Fiscal History, Medieval Spain, Islamic History and Muslim CivilizationKenneth Scheve & David Stasavage, 'Taxing the Rich: a History of Fiscal Fairness in the United States and Europe'Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Halliday•  5  Egalitarianism, Fiscal policy, Tax Justice, Wealth inequalityContemporary Issues in Taxation Research: Volume 4This book principally contains a collection of papers that have their origins in a Tax Research Network (TRN) conference paper, revised or extended, from the 2018 and 2019 TRN Conferences, hosted by the University of Birmingham and... moreThis book principally contains a collection of papers that have their origins in a Tax Research Network (TRN) conference paper, revised or extended, from the 2018 and 2019 TRN Conferences, hosted by the University of Birmingham and Preston University, respectively. The conferences were sponsored by the Chartered Institute of Taxation and ICAEW Charitable Trusts.Save to LibraryDownloadby Adrian J Sawyer•  6  Taxation, Business Taxation, Tax Policy, Tax ComplianceLes Revoltes Fiscales en EuropeSave to LibraryDownloadby Olivier Burtin•History of taxationOptimal Taxation In Africa: How Relevant Is Warren Buffet ModelInitially taxation was not a compulsory levy but a contribution for a common goal to be achieved but now it is a compulsory levy imposed on citizenry for the collective development of the country. Optimal taxation deals with variety of... moreInitially taxation was not a compulsory levy but a contribution for a common goal to be achieved but now it is a compulsory levy imposed on citizenry for the collective development of the country. Optimal taxation deals with variety of tax rates the government will employ and also what type of taxes should be imposed on the citizenry whether it is income tax or commodity tax. Apart from determining the tax rate by the government and the type of taxes, optimal taxation also deals with the trends of the tax system of the country. Base on the peculiar externalities of a developing continent which makes Warren Buffet model irrelevant in achieving optimal taxation in Africa. Such externalities are corruption, inflation-godfatherizm‖ .This study emphasized optimality in taxation in Africa through the reduction of tax rate, apart from tax incentive in the tax structures to mitigates tax evasion and tax avoidance. The methodology employed for this study is content analysis, explorative research study from relevant literatures For optimal taxation in Africa especially Nigeria been a developing country tax rate of 30% corporate tax is high, and 7% individual tax, 5% VAT or sales tax. To attract more foreign investors into the economy, Qatar tax rate should be adopted which have 10% tax rate on corporate tax, 0% on income tax which will have a positive effect on both formal and informal sectors of the country. With this system of tax rate small scale industry will be willing to pay their tax with hiding their asset for tax deductibility. 10% on corporate tax will boost more small scale industries and strengthens the profitability of large firms in NigeriaSave to LibraryDownloadby Abolade Falana•  20  Tax Law, Accounting, Africa, TaxationL'influence de la pensée chrétienne sur les systèmes fiscaux d'Europe occidentaleL’influence de la pensée chrétienne sur les systèmes fiscaux d’Europe occidentale. La pensée religieuse fait partie, selon Ripert, des forces créatrices du droit. L’impôt est un élément constitutif du pouvoir souverain, mais il n’est... moreL’influence de la pensée chrétienne sur les systèmes fiscaux d’Europe occidentale. La pensée religieuse fait partie, selon Ripert, des forces créatrices du droit. L’impôt est un élément constitutif du pouvoir souverain, mais il n’est cependant qu’un objet secondaire des doctrines sociales des Eglises chrétiennes, dont les conceptions fiscales sont motivées par des fondements théologico-politiques. Si l’éclatement protestant a favorisé sa soumission au pouvoir fiscal du prince, l’unité catholique maintenait une attitude plus réservée. L’abandon catholique du modèle féodal est contemporain de la déchristianisation des sociétés européennes. L’affirmation unie du devoir fiscal accompagne donc désormais des sociétés où le civisme fiscal décline. Quant à l’influence de ces doctrines chrétiennes sur le droit fiscal positif, l’étude comparée des systèmes européens révèle qu’elle est moins directe qu’indirecte. En effet, l’interventionnisme fiscal à but religieux ou moral est des plus réduits. Il se limite à certains aspects « archaïques » des régimes fiscaux. En ce qui concerne la structure des systèmes fiscaux, au contraire, cette influence semble plus forte. Elle oppose la rationalité axiologique, au sens de Weber, du catholicisme, qui a freiné l’adoption de l’impôt sur le revenu, à la rationalité instrumentale du protestantisme, qui a favorisé l’adaptation des systèmes fiscaux au développement économique moderne.The Influence of Christian Thought on European Tax Systems. Religious thought is part of the creative sources of law, according to Georges Ripert. Although being an intrinsic element of sovereignty, taxation has always been a secondary issue of the Christian church’s social doctrines, the basis of which are both theological and political. While the division of protestant churches helped the State’s power compliance, the united catholic Church has long maintained a more reserved attitude towards it. Comparative studies show that the influence of these religious teachings on tax laws seems to be more indirect than direct. In fact, tax intervention on religious or moral purposes is very little, and is limited to some aspects of ancient tax systems. On the contrary, their influence on the structure of tax systems is much more significant. It confronts the value rationality – according to Max Weber – of Catholicism which held back the emergence of Income Taxes and the means-ends rationality of Protestantism which helped tax systems to adapt to the modern development of economy.L’influence de la pensée chrétienne sur les systèmes fiscaux d’Europe occidentale, Préface de P. Beltrame, Paris, L’Harmattan, collection « Finances publiques », 2007, 464 p.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabrice Bin•  4  History of Christian Thought, History of taxation, Theory of Taxation, European taxation systemsTürk Basınında Büyük Buhran: Akşam Gazetesi 1929-1934This study deals with the 1929 depression from the Akşam Gazette's perspective, which has a long history in the Turkish press. The study assesses the effects of the Great Depression on the economies of the United States, Europe, and... moreThis study deals with the 1929 depression from the Akşam Gazette's perspective, which has a long history in the Turkish press. The study assesses the effects of the Great Depression on the economies of the United States, Europe, and Turkey, respectively, based on the Akşam Gazette's news. While social problems like suicides and demonstrations as well as the negative effects of the Depression on Hollywood in America come to the fore in these assessments, the unemployment in Europe is remarkable. On the other hand, the positive effects of the Depression on American society are also featured in the news. For instance, thanks to the Depression, there is a significant decrease in the death rate owing to declining overeating and debauchery alleged to be seriously damaging to the human body. As for Turkey, Turkey's economic situation is not much different than in other countries. Thus, some economic decisions, such as levying of the depression tax and imposing restrictions on imports, were introduced to reduce the impacts of the Depression on the Turkish economy. All in all, the Akşam Gazette provided important news about the effects of the Great Depression not only on Turkish economy but also on other countries' economies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Şahin Yeşilyurt, PhD•  2  History of taxation, History of Public FinanceOrganizace poddanske kontribuce v Čechách a její písemnosti v 18. a první polovině 19. stoletíThe setting and collection of taxation (contributions) from the taxable Czech population stabilised definitively in 1684, when the militare ordinarium gradually assumed key importance. From 1704 this setting (repartition) of contributions... moreThe setting and collection of taxation (contributions) from the taxable Czech population stabilised definitively in 1684, when the militare ordinarium gradually assumed key importance. From 1704 this setting (repartition) of contributions was carried out within what were called military years, corresponding to the last two months of the preceding year and 10 months of the following year. The state wished to maintain an overview of the setting of contributions, so in 1714 and 1725 it initiated the establishment of so-called contributions books.The change came with a system patent dated 6 September 1748. It was issued in connection with the introduction of a new lands register and with it a so-called 10-year recess. The system patent of 1748 introduced a whole range of norms during the second half of the 18th century. The most significant changes stemmed from the taxation and urbarial reforms of Joseph II, which however were in place only briefly, until the turn of 1789 and 1790. Orders dating from 1807 represented the final intervention in contributions accounting.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jan  Lhoták•  3  Economic History, Agrarian History, History of taxation«Entre la reforma y las contrarreformas: una historia política de la fiscalidad española en la democracia» This article gives a general overview of the history of the tax reforms in Spain between the late francoism and the beginning of the 21st century. It has been published in en Carlos Barciela, Joaquín Melgarejo y Antonio di Vittorio... moreThis article gives a general overview of the history of the tax reforms in Spain between the late francoism and the beginning of the 21st century. It has been published in en Carlos Barciela, Joaquín Melgarejo y Antonio di Vittorio (eds.), La evolución de la hacienda pública en Italia y España (siglos XVIII-XXI), Alicante, Publicaciones Universitat d’Alacant, 2015, pp. 557-590Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Pan-Montojo•  3  Spanish History, Neoliberalism, History of taxationA Southwark Tale: Gower, the 1381 Poll Tax, and Chaucer's The Canterbury TalesBy showing that the General Prologue to The Canterbury Tales was inspired by Harry Bailey's 1381 poll-tax records for Southwark, this article offers a new interpretive context for Chaucer's best-known work. During the second half of the... moreBy showing that the General Prologue to The Canterbury Tales was inspired by Harry Bailey's 1381 poll-tax records for Southwark, this article offers a new interpretive context for Chaucer's best-known work.During the second half of the 1380s, John Gower, the leading fourteenth-century poet and an acquaintance of Geoffrey Chaucer, was working on his longest English poem, the Confessio Amantis. Chaucer, in turn, is believed to have been writing some of the material that would later form The Canterbury Tales. In addition, Chaucer was probably finishing Troilus and Criseyde, which must have been available before March 1388, at least in part, to Thomas Usk, the poet and undersheriff of London, who names the poem and borrows from Chaucer’s Boece in his Testament of Love. It is in the Confessio and in the Troilus, that is, in works written in the second half of the 1380s, that Chaucer and Gower first refer to one another in a literary context. The only other instance that connects the two names is a 1378 legal record, in which Chaucer hands power of attorney to Gower and the lawyer Richard Forster. Rather than reading this document as proof of Gower and Chaucer’s supposed personal friendship, I adduce new evidence for Gower’s legal training that suggests that the 1378 record was a purely professional arrangement—Chaucer might simply have needed a team of lawyers at the time. There is no reason to read this document through the prism of an instance of poetically embedded praise some ten years later, particularly given Gower’s likely career as a lawyer.The new evidence for Gower’s legal training changes what we know of the relationship between the two poets and, by virtue of pushing forward their literary acquaintance to the late 1380s, brings into sharp relief their deep ties to Southwark, where Gower may have resided at the time and where Chaucer launched his Canterbury Tales. Furthermore, on closer inspection, this new focus on Gower’s and Chaucer’s work in Southwark has the potential not only to foreground the role of an emerging literary culture in the area but to challenge existing models of reading The Canterbury Tales and modify our understanding of what Chaucer had in mind when he embarked on this collection of tales.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sebastian Sobecki•  48  History, Law, English Literature, Reception StudiesThe Fiscal Regime of Babylonia during the Old Babylonian PeriodGoddeeris, A. 2020: The Fiscal Regime of Babylonia during the Old Babylonian Period, in: J. Mynářová – S. Alivernini (eds.), Economic Complexity in the Ancient Near East: Management of Resources and Taxation (Third - Second Millennium... moreGoddeeris, A. 2020: The Fiscal Regime of Babylonia during the Old Babylonian Period, in: J. Mynářová – S. Alivernini (eds.), Economic Complexity in the Ancient Near East: Management of Resources and Taxation (Third - Second Millennium BC), Prague, 127–51.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anne  Goddeeris•  6  Assyriology, Old Babylonian period, CUNEIFORM STUDIES, History of taxationDIRECT TAXATION IN INDIA: TRENDS AND PATTERNSIn a developing country like India, government performs a very crucial role for the overall development. It needs to perform a large number of activities requiring a huge public expenditure. To meet this expenditure they require public... moreIn a developing country like India, government performs a very crucial role for the overall development. It needs to performa large number of activities requiring a huge public expenditure. To meet this expenditure they require public revenue. Taxesare one of the important sources of public revenue. Taxes are not a recent origin. It was levied dates back to timeimmemorial. It can be classified into direct (impact & incidence on same person) and indirect (impact & incidence on differentperson) taxes. A report reveals that in India only 2.77% people pay income tax which has a very less proportion in compareto developed countries. So, government made a continuous effort to bring more people under the regime of taxation, so thatpublic revenue can be increased. This paper is an attempt to study the taxation systems prevailed in the past and recenttrends and patterns of direct taxation in India.Keywords: Direct Taxation, Tax Revenue, History of Taxation, Tax-GDP Ratio, Income Tax, Buoyancy Factor, Trends and Patterns.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr Mohd Arif•  6  Finance, Taxation, India, Income TaxOld Babylonian Taxation as Political Mechanism (2020)Save to LibraryDownloadby Seth Richardson and +1Jana Mynářová•  17  Ancient History, Assyriology, Mesopotamia History, Ancient Near East"La valeur du "bain royal" (fandroana). Echanges tributaires et souveraineté dans le Royaume de Madagascar au XIXe siècle"Cet article envisage le lien profond qui unit la monarchie malgache et la société à travers un fait social total, le fandroana ou rite du bain. Le fandroana est plus qu’un rituel de nouvel an. C’est un moment d’échanges symboliques et... moreCet article envisage le lien profond qui unit la monarchie malgache et la société à travers un fait social total, le fandroana ou rite du bain. Le fandroana est plus qu’un rituel de nouvel an. C’est un moment d’échanges symboliques et matériels ainsi que de transactions politiques mettant en scène le lien renouvelé entre les collectivités et le souverain. À travers de nouvelles sources, issues notamment des archives de la comptabilité publique du Royaume de Madagascar, il s’agira de jeter un nouveau regard, à la fois qualitatif et quantitatif, sur les représentations émiques du pouvoir et l’organisation interne de ce royaume qui fut un des plus bureaucratique du xixe siècle africain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Samuel F. Sanchez•  13  African History, Indian Ocean History, History of the Western Indian Ocean XV-XIX Century, Anthropology of MadagascarLos textiles indígenas en la época colonial. Tributo, comercio e intercambio de mantas de algodón en los Andes centrales neogranadinos, siglos XVI y XVIIAbstract | This article analyses the continuity and importance of the textiles of pre-Hispanic origin in the economic colonial order of the Central Andes of the New Kingdom of Granada during the XVI and XVII centuries. Through the study... moreAbstract | This article analyses the continuity and importance of the textiles of pre-Hispanic origin in the economic colonial order of the Central Andes of the New Kingdom of Granada during the XVI and XVII centuries. Through the study of the official documentation that accounts for the link of cotton mantas to the colonial tax system, the trade and the exchange values are examined. First, we analyse hints of the volume of mantas delivered by the indigenous groups as a tribute in species, which allows us to observe the flexibility of the fiscal system characterized by the negotiation, the non-fulfillment of the official rates and the protection of the interests of the different actors involved. Second, we establish who were some of the final consumers of the product and what conditions surrounded the trade and transportation of the textiles. Finally, we show the types of exchanges that involved the cotton mantas, and the values these acquired in the local and regional markets. These three thematic axes show the active and relevant presence of the indigenous textile manufacturing in the local, provincial and inter-provincial context, as well as the network of political, economic and commercial relations that stimulated this productive activity during this colonial period. Resumen | Este artículo analiza la continuidad e importancia de los textiles de origen prehispánico en el orden económico colonial de los Andes centrales neogranadinos durante los siglos XVI y XVII. A través del estudio de la documentación oficial que da cuenta de su vinculación al sistema tributario colonial, el comercio y sus valores de intercambio se examinan, primero, indicios sobre el volumen de mantas entregadas por los grupos indígenas como tributo en especie lo que permite observar la flexibilidad del sistema fiscal caracterizado por la negociación, el incumplimiento de las tasas oficiales y la protección de los intereses de los distintos actores involucrados. En segundo lugar, se establece quienes eran algunos de los consumidores finales del producto y las condiciones alrededor del comercio y transporte de los textiles. Finalmente, se exponen los tipos de intercambios que involucraron a las mantas de algodón y los valores que estas adquirieron en los mercados locales y regionales. A partir de estos tres ejes temáticos se muestra la activa y relevante presencia de la manufactura textil indígena en el contexto local, provincial e interprovincial, así como el entramado de relaciones políticas, económicas y comerciales que dinamizaron esta actividad productiva durante el periodo abordado.Save to LibraryDownloadby Historia  y Sociedad•  56  Economic History, Latin American and Caribbean History, Early Modern History, TextilesThe Artful Aussie Tax Dodger: 100 Years of Tax Reform in AustraliaThis book looks at 100 years of taxation legislation in Australia. From the introduction of the first Federal Income Tax Assessment Act of 1915, to the introduction of Australia’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) in 2000, and how the Federal... moreThis book looks at 100 years of taxation legislation in Australia. From the introduction of the first Federal Income Tax Assessment Act of 1915, to the introduction of Australia’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) in 2000, and how the Federal Government proposed to re-introduce State Income Tax Acts in 2016.  On January 1 1901, the Commonwealth of Australia was empowered to impose income tax on its citizens. However this book considers that it was not until September 3 1915 that the century of ‘tax reform’ began when the Australian Government introduced its first Income Tax Assessment Act. This book studies the transformation of tax reform over the 100 years from 1915 – 2016 of how Australia ‘reviewed and reformed’ its tax legislation which was driven by the winds of various political and social interests.  To do that, this book considers the oldest of British tax planning entities – the Trust. The British laws governing Trusts was ‘received‘ into Australia as part of the British Colonial Laws at colonisation in 1788 and applied in the Commonwealth of Australia at Federation in 1901. Therefore this book considers the trading trust to be the earliest form of ‘tax planning’ structure in Australia.  To provide broad context to the study of tax reform the book examines the introduction of Australia’s ‘reformed’ consumption tax, its Goods and Services Tax (GST), in 2000. It looks at the impact of the introduction GST by comparing it to its Pacific neighbours.  For many years the Cooks Islands held itself out as a Tax Haven in the South Pacific and the main vehicle of tax planning was the International Trading Trust, a key feature of the Spotless Services Ltd’s investment scheme to avoid tax in 1987. Therefore the Independent State of Cook Islands became central to one of Australia’s landmark tax avoidance schemes – the Spotless Case 1996.  This book uses the Cook Islands legislation as a comparative to the examination of Australian tax reform. Further, the Cook Islands introduced its Income Tax Act and Value Added Tax Acts in 1997 and, in 2000, that legislation, provided a convenient, recent comparative.  The book moves to an analysis of tax avoidance schemes in Australia and finally it examines government taxation reform activities over the century to the end of 2015. The books notes that, just one year, into a new century of taxation, in 2016, the Australian Federal Government put forward a proposal to go forward to the Past by repealing certain sections of the Income Tax Assessment Act and transferring Income Taxing powers back to the States, a position which existed prior to 1936.  In conclusion, this book looks at how Australia’s tax legislation was grounded, added to, avoided, and evolved, until ultimately it went ‘Back to the Future’.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander R Fullarton•  5  Economics, Taxation, History of taxation, Tax Havensİlkesiz Vergilere Tepkiler Vergi İsyanları (e kitap formatı) (1)Save to LibraryDownloadby Doç.Dr.Gamze Yıldız ŞEREN and +1Özgür Saraç•  3  Taxation, History of taxation, Tax RevoltsHerrschaft und Staatlichkeit Abhandlung zur Beantragung der Venia Legendi für das Fach Allgemeine Geschichte der NeuzeitThis study, my professorial thesis, or Habilitationsschrift, focuses on administrative confusion and social disruptions in the Habsburg monarchy from the Thirty Years' War to Charles VI (r. 1711-40). I will demonstrate that these two... moreThis study, my professorial thesis, or Habilitationsschrift, focuses on administrative confusion and social disruptions in the Habsburg monarchy from the Thirty Years' War to Charles VI (r. 1711-40). I will demonstrate that these two aspects were the by-product of state formation in early modern composite monarchies. Whereas the advent of the 'fiscal-military state' (Brewer 1989) transformed our understanding of central bureaucracies over the past three decades, these days most studies of early modern state formation apply top-down perspectives.By contrast, my study approaches the Habsburg monarchy's re-emergence after 1648 based on two distinctively different premises: First, individual actions and structural developments entail differing consequences for central institutions and the geographically more remote areas; and, second, by analysing these developments from outside the courtly and urban settings, I am arguing that state integration in the centre was accompanied by increasing state disintegration and loss of cohesion on the lower administrative levels. As the central government tried to cope with war-induced stress, its actions started to tear apart the administrative and social fabric that held traditional society together. By emphasising the crucial role of local actors, regional interlinkages, and the disintegrating consequences that warfare had on state formation, my book offers a counter-narrative to traditional interpretations in the fields of History, IR, and Historical Sociology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stephan Sander-Faes•  20  Early Modern History, Czech History, Administrative History, Central European historyГуржій О. І., Орлик В. М. Селяни України та їх оподаткування в XVII - середині XIX ст. Біла Церква: Вид. Пшонківський О. В., 2012.  278 с.У монографії розглядаються проблеми історії оподаткування сільського населення України у XVII- середині XIX ст., висвітлюються процеси структуризації та еволюції різних груп сільських мешканців у взаємозв’язку з їхніми фіскальними... moreУ монографії розглядаються проблеми історії оподаткування сільського населення України у XVII- середині XIX ст., висвітлюються процеси структуризації та еволюції різних груп сільських мешканців у взаємозв’язку з їхніми фіскальними зобов’язаннями. Автори комплексно досліджують особливості становлення та діяльність основних інституцій реалізації податкової політики на тлі складних і часто непослідовних заходів урядових структур, вивчають процеси поширення на українські терени російських податкових статей, специфіку різних видів оподаткування крізь призму станових, етнічних та регіональних складових фіскальної політики. Монографія розрахована на науковців, викладачів, студентів і всіх, хто цікавиться історією України та Російської імперії.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vasyl  Orlyk / Василь Орлик•  14  History, Economic History, Economics, TaxationHungary and the Holy See of Rome II. Hungarian Historical Researches of the 21th Century in the Vatican (CVH I/15), ed. by Péter Tusor–Kornél Szovák–Tamás FedelesHungary and the Holy See of Rome II. Hungarian Historical Researches of the 21th Century in the Vatican (CVH I/15), ed. by Péter Tusor–Kornél Szovák–Tamás Fedeles, Budapest–Rome 2017. pp. 436 + 11 suppl. (7 pictures printed on coated... moreHungary and the Holy See of Rome II. Hungarian Historical Researches of the 21th Century in the Vatican (CVH I/15), ed. by Péter Tusor–Kornél Szovák–Tamás Fedeles, Budapest–Rome 2017. pp. 436 + 11 suppl. (7 pictures printed on coated paper, 4 maps)The volume gives a scientific plan to the forthcoming five years of the HAS-PPCU Vilmos Fraknói Vatican Historical Research Group that focuses on the Hungarian historical research in the Vatican and was established in 2017 as an organic continuation of the Impetus research group. It contains the lectures-turned-studies of the “Hungarian Historical Researches of the 21th Century in the Vatican” symposium of the VIIIth International Hungarology Congress organised by the Impetus research group on the 23rd August 2016.The chronological and thematic order of the volume’s writings clearly outlines the planned focus and directions of the research group’s researches. The first five studies examine late medieval subject. Ágnes Maléth analyses the diplomatic relations between Charles I and the papal court in the light of sources from the Vatican Archives. Tamás Fedeles provides input to the work of the papal tax collectors by the presentation of the operation of one of them: Péter, son of István, whose person is well-known both for the Hungarian and the Polish research. Kornél Szovák examines how the Turkish question appeared in the supplications handed in the Roman Curia in the fifteenth century. Gábor Nemes processed the late medieval presence of laics and priests from the diocese of Győr in Rome leaning on various curial types of sources. Finally, the study of Bálint Lakatos provides insight into the ceremonial hierarchy of the papal court, in which he examines the place of Hungary.The focus of the next six studies is the Early Modern Age. Viktor Kanász outlines his plan to reveal the Vatican sources concerning the curial process of György Fráter’s murder, with which he desires to settle the long-standing debt of the Hungarian historiography. Similarly, Péter Tusor drafts the details of his project about the methodical exploitation of the verbals of the seventeenth century canonical examinations. Tamás Tóth deals with this subject for the eighteenth century. Tamás Kruppa analyses the relations of politics and religion in the early seventeenth century on the basis of the works and correspondence of the Jesuit Giovanni Argenti. Béla Vilmos Mihalik also presents a diplomatic subject: the connections of the Holy See and the Court of Vienna at the end of the 17th century, at the time of the Roman legation of Count Georg Adam von Martinitz. Gábor Kisvarga outlines the plan to publish the monograph of Ferenc Galla, which survived in a manuscript, on the missions in the territory under Turkish rule.The last four studies delineate the third main direction of the investigations of the research group; the Hungarian historical researches in the Vatican about the twentieth century. Krisztina Tóth presents the point of view of the Holy See about the Hungarian royal right of patronage at the turn of the 1920s through the protocols of the Congregation for Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs. Máté Gárdonyi reveals the documentary value of the renewed ad limina reports submitted already not to the Congregation of Council, but to the Consistorial Congregation. Tamás Véghseő provides interesting additions to the problems of the consolidation of the Hungarian Greek Catholics after the Treaty of Trianon in his source publication. Ultimately, Lilla Fehér unfolds a chapter of the history of the emigration in Rome after 1945: the attempt to establish the Saint Stephen Academy.The volume is supplemented by rich source material, charts and maps published at the singular studies, pictures, summaries in English and an index.------------------------------Magyarország és a római Szentszék II. Vatikáni magyar kutatások a 21. században (CVH I/15), szerk. Tusor Péter–Szovák Kornél–Fedeles Tamás, Budapest–Róma 2017. 436 p. + (11 melléklet (7 p. műnyomó képmell., 4 térkép)A kötet a Lendület-kutatócsoport szerves folytatásaként 2017-ben megalakult, a vatikáni magyar történeti kutatásokat működése középpontjába állító MTA-PPKE Fraknói Vilmos Római Történeti Kutatócsoport számára ad szakmai prognózist az elkövetkezendő öt évre. Alapjául a 2016. augusztus 23-án a pécsi VIII. Nemzetközi Hungarológiai Kongresszus Lendület-kutatócsoport által szervezett Vatikáni magyar történeti kutatások a 21. században szimpóziumán elhangzott előadások szolgálnak.A tanulmányok kronológiai, tematikai rendje körvonalazza a kutatócsoport tervezett kutatásainak súlypontját, irányait. Az első öt tanulmány késő középkori témát vizsgál. Maléth Ágnes I. Károly és a pápai udvar közötti diplomáciai kapcsolatokat elemezi vatikáni levéltári források fényében. Fedeles Tamás a pápai tizedszedők munkájához szolgál adalékkal, a magyar és a lengyel kutatás számára egyaránt ismert pápai adószedő, István fia Péter kollektori működésének bemutatásával. Szovák Kornél azt vizsgálja, hogyan jelent meg a török kérdés a 15. században a pápához benyújtott folyamodványokban, az ún. szupplikációkban. Nemes Gábor a győri egyházmegyés hívek és papság késő középkori római jelenlétét dolgozza fel különféle kuriális forrástípusokra támaszkodva. Végül Lakatos Bálint tanulmánya a pápai udvar ceremoniális rangsorába enged betekintést, melyben Magyarország helyét vizsgálja.A következő hat tanulmány súlypontját a kora újkor adja. Kanász Viktor Fráter György kuriális perére vonatkozó szentszéki források feltárásának tervét vázolja, mellyel a historiográfia régi adósságát igyekszik törleszteni. Hasonlóképpen Tusor Péter, aki a 17. századi kánoni kivizsgálási jegyzőkönyvek módszeres kiaknázásának tervét vázolja fel. Ehhez kapcsolódik Tóth Tamás írása, aki ugyanezt a témát a 18. század vonatkozásában körvonalazza. Kruppa Tamás Giovanni Argenti jezsuita művei és levelezése alapján vizsgálja politika és vallás kapcsolatát a 17. század elején Erdélyben. Szintén diplomáciai témát mutat be Mihalik Béla Vilmos: a Szentszék és a bécsi udvar kapcsolatát a 17. század végén, Georg Adam von Martinitz gróf római követsége idején. Kisvarga Gábor Galla Ferencnek a hódoltsági missziókról írt kéziratban maradt munkája kiadásának tervét vázolja.Az utolsó négy tanulmány a kutatócsoport harmadik fő kutatási irányát a 20. századra vonatkozó szentszéki magyar kutatásokat körvonalazza. Tóth Krisztina a Szentszéknek az 1920-as évek fordulóján magyar királyi főkegyúri joggal kapcsolatban elfoglalt álláspontját ismerteti a Rendkívüli Egyházi Ügyek Kongregációja jegyzőkönyvein keresztül. Gárdonyi Máté a megújított, és már nem a Zsinati, hanem a Konzisztoriális Kongregációhoz benyújtott ad limina jelentések forrásértékét mutatja be. Véghseő Tamás forrásközlésében a görögkatolikusság Trianon utáni konszolidációjához ad érdekes adalékokat. Végül Fehér Lilla az 1945 utáni római emigráció történetének egy fejezetét, a Szent István Akadémia létrehozására tett kísérletet tárja fel.A kötetet az egyes tanulmányoknál közölt gazdag forrásanyag, táblázatok, térképek, képanyag, illetve angol nyelvű összefoglalók és mutató egészíti ki.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vilmos Fraknói Vatican Historical Research Group  of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Péter Pázmány Catholic University and +6Tusor PéterÁgnes MaléthViktor KanászGábor KisvargaKrisztina TóthTamás Véghseő•  64  European History, Diplomatic History, Medieval History, Early Modern History1. "Sotto l'ombra della patente del Santo Officio". I 'familiares' dell'Inquisizione romana fra XVI e XVII secoloChe cosa fu l’Inquisizione romana? In che modo gli inquisitori operarono nella società italiana del Cinque-Seicento? Per tentare di rispondere a tali quesiti, l’autore prende in analisi la familia inquisitoriale, il nutrito gruppo di... moreChe cosa fu l’Inquisizione romana? In che modo gli inquisitori operarono nella società italiana del Cinque-Seicento? Per tentare di rispondere a tali quesiti, l’autore prende in analisi la familia inquisitoriale, il nutrito gruppo di assistenti del tribunale di fede. Alla luce di una ricca documentazione inedita, vengono ricostruite per la prima volta le vicende del personale del Sant’Uffizio, composto da vicari, notai, avvocati, consultori, sbirri, guardie del corpo e altri. Nel libro vengono indagate la trattatistica inerente a questi patentati, la loro distribuzione geografia e le confraternite entro le quali furono inquadrati. In seguito sono analizzati i privilegi di cui godettero i familiari e gli abusi spesso efferati che essi commisero, dimostrando come l’Inquisizione sia divenuta un elemento di disordine sociale e morale ogniqualvolta venne messa in dubbio la sua autorità.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dennj Solera•  20  Inquisition, Medieval Church History, History of Violence, Church HistoryTax Revolts during the Tanzimat Period (1839-76) and before the Young Turk Revolution (1904-08): Popular Protest and State Formation in the Late Ottoman Empire”Save to LibraryDownloadby E. Attila Aytekin•  5  Ottoman History, Peasant Studies, Ottoman Studies, History of taxationKnihy chebské zemské berně z roku 1438 a 1456 - Land tax books of the Eger region from 1438 and 1456The book encompasses two parts. Firstly, the edition of two books of the land tax of the Eger region from 1438 (a copy from 1769) and 1456. Secondly, the comprehensive historical study into the city and land of Eger in the middle ages... moreThe book encompasses two parts. Firstly, the edition of two books of the land tax of the Eger region from 1438 (a copy from 1769) and 1456. Secondly, the comprehensive historical study into the city and land of Eger in the middle ages (part 1); the description of the medieval city administration (part 2); the description of the medieval tax books (part 3); the linguistic analysis (part 4); the content and knowledge potential of the tax books (part 5); and the description of the medieval tax system of the Eger land and its Central-European context (part 6-7). The book is enriched by wide registers, tables, figures and maps.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tomas Klir and +2Martin HůrkaHana Pátková•  19  Economic History, Medieval History, Early Modern History, Medieval StudiesNouvelles chartes visigothiques du monastère pyrénéen d’AsánThis book offers the first collective discussion, by archaeologists, historians and philologists, of a corpus of six charters (four of which recently discovered) that all came from or are linked to the archive of the monastery of Asán.... moreThis book offers the first collective discussion, by archaeologists, historians and philologists, of a corpus of six charters (four of which recently discovered) that all came from or are linked to the archive of the monastery of Asán. The various contributions examine the monastery in its territorial context across the centuries, and its economic underpinning through the exploitation of its estates. Also included are explorations of monastic life in the eastern Pyrenees, which provides some of the earliest evidence for it in the peninsula, and consideration of its connections to early Gallic and Italian monasticism. Asán is also the source of the earliest evidence for the use of particular forms of documentary record or charter in the Iberian Peninsula in the post-Roman period. These texts offer unexpected and important information about the legal and administrative practices of the Visigothic monarchy in the late sixth century and of the monastery’s connections to it. Amongst these are its role in providing a succession of bishops for important dioceses in the provinces of Tarraconensis and Narbonensis, in a period normally seen as being marked by religious conflict between church and state. Amongst other bodies of evidence studied here are later texts relating to Asán, including the hagiographic dossiers of Victorianus, abbot of Asán, and of Gaudiosus, bishop of Tarrazona, with new critical editions of several of them being included in this book.Save to LibraryDownloadby Céline  Martin and +6Juan José LarreaRoger CollinsDamián FernándezAmancio IslaJose Carlos MartinGuillermo Tomás Faci•  11  Late Antiquity, Mountain communities, Late Antique Hagiography, Pastoralism (Archaeology)INCOME TAX AUTHORITIES IN INDIA AND THEIR WORKING Introductionsynopsis for the research paper of income tax authoritiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Anuj Sharma•  2  Income Tax Law, History of taxationWołyń w systemie celnym Wielkiego Księstwa Litewskiego i Korony Polskiej (XVI – połowa XVII wieku) [w:] Europa Orientalis. Studia z dziejów Europy Wschodniej i Państw Bałtyckich, Toruń 2009, nr. 1 (2009), s.217-233Artykuł jest poświęcony analizie miejsca i roli Wołynia w systemie mytno/celnym Wielkiego Księstwa Litewskiego i Korony Polskiej. Zostały scharakteryzowane cła i myta jako główne elementy systemu mytnego terytorium.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vladyslav  Berkovski•  10  Economic History, Early Modern History, Early Modern economic and social history, History of the Polish-Lithuanian CommonwealthA Map of Society: Defining Income in British, British-Colonial and American Tax LegislationSave to LibraryDownloadby Assaf Likhovski•  3  Legal History, Income Tax Law, History of taxationConstruir la identidad pechera: la lucha contra la exención fiscal en Astorga, León y Oviedo durante el siglo XVThe aim of this paper is to use the example of the towns of Astorga, León and Oviedo in order to highlight how the fight against tax exemption was a core issue on the public action of the commoners, whose responsibility in tax matters... moreThe aim of this paper is to use the example of the towns of Astorga, León and Oviedo in order to highlight how the fight against tax exemption was a core issue on the public action of the commoners, whose responsibility in tax matters allowed them to create institutional tools in order to build a specific identity. A través del ejemplo de las tres ciudades episcopales asturleonesas (Astorga, León y Oviedo), se pretende poner de relieve cómo la lucha contra la exención constituyó un verdadero eje vertebrador de la intervención pública de los pecheros, cuyas competencias en materia fiscal les permitieron dotarse de mecanismos institucionales para construir una identidad específica.Save to LibraryDownloadby Raul Gonzalez Gonzalez•  9  Medieval History, Urban History, Historia Social, Conflictos SocialesGunter Schmolders - Aline e Danielle.docxResumo da obra do Autor Günter Schmölders, publicado como capítulo do livro "Leituras Clássicas do Direito Tributário".Save to LibraryDownloadby Aline Krieger•  2  Tax Law, History of taxationThe Political Economy of Public Finance. Taxation, State Spending and Debt since the 1970s, CUP 2017Save to LibraryDownloadby Marc Buggeln•  15  Public Finance, Political Economy, Welfare State, TaxationHares, Rabbits, Pheasants: Piers Plowman and William Longewille, a Norfolk Rebel in 1381Since Piers Plowman occupies a central place in the study of medieval English literature, much attention has been paid to the vexed question of the poem's authorship. This justified interest in revealing the human agent behind the family... moreSince Piers Plowman occupies a central place in the study of medieval English literature, much attention has been paid to the vexed question of the poem's authorship. This justified interest in revealing the human agent behind the family of interrelated versions of the poem, usually named A, B, and C, continues to feed a vibrant industry of speculative scholarship on the person behind the poem. This article reassesses the relevance of the 'Langland' myth for the contemporary reception of the poem, and argues that medieval audiences of the B Version associated the work with a 'Long Will' author-persona. In this context, the case of a previously unnoticed Norfolk poacher in the weeks leading up to the 1381 rising, a William Longewille, and his encroachment on the estate of the former sheriff and tax collector Richard Holdych echo the Ploughing of the Half-Acre in Piers Plowman, in particular as it is presented in the B Version of the poem. As a result, this article proposes that both the A and B Versions of the poem may have been available to (some of) the rebels of 1381, and that the B Version may have circulated in Norfolk along Cluniac and Benedictine networks before and after the unrest.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sebastian Sobecki•  63  Religion, Christianity, History, English LiteratureThe Misuse of Top 1 Percent Income Shares as a Measure of InequalitySave to LibraryDownloadby Alan Reynolds•  10  Labor Economics, Taxation, Monetary history, Income DistributionLa 'marca' y 'quema' como solución fiscal de frontera en Castilla y la Corona de Aragón: de la aportación sinalagmática a la punción arancelaria (siglos XIV-XV)Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Crespo Amat•  7  Economic History, Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Medieval Crown of AragonRiotous assemblage and the materials of regulationIn the stores of the British Museum are three exquisite springs, made in the late 1820s and 1830s, to regulate the most precise timepieces in the world. Barely the thickness of a hair, they are exquisite because they are made entirely of... moreIn the stores of the British Museum are three exquisite springs, made in the late 1820s and 1830s, to regulate the most precise timepieces in the world. Barely the thickness of a hair, they are exquisite because they are made entirely of glass. Combining new documentary evidence, funded by the Antiquarian Horological Society, with the first technical analysis of the springs, undertaken in collaboration with the British Museum, the research presented here uncovers their extraordinary significance to the global extension of nineteenth century capitalism through the repeal of the Corn Laws. In the 1830s and 1840s the Astronomer Royal, George Biddell Airy; the Hydrographer to the Admiralty, Francis Beaufort; and the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Peel, collaborated with the virtuoso chronometer-maker, Edward John Dent, to mobilize the specificity of particular forms of glass, the salience of the Glass Tax, and the significance of state standards, as means to reform. These protagonists looked to glass and its properties to transform the fiscal military state into an exquisitely regulated machine with the appearance of automation and the gloss of the free-trade liberal ideal. Surprising but significant connections, linking Newcastle mobs to tales of Cinderella and the use of small change, demonstrate why historians must attend to materials and how such attention exposes claims to knowledge, the interests behind such claims, and the impact they have had upon the design and architecture of the modern world. Through the pivotal role of glass, this paper reveals the entangled emergence of state and market capitalism, and how the means of production was transformed in vitreous proportions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jenny Bulstrode•  9  Political Economy, Nineteenth Century Studies, Standards, GlassBÜYÜK BUHRAN’IN TÜRKİYE EKONOMİSİ ÜZERİNDEKİ BİR NETİCESİ: BUHRAN VERGİSİThis study deals with the depression tax, which was put into effect in the Turkish tax system as a consequence of the Great Depression of 1929 that affected the whole world. The depression tax, which was enacted during an extraordinary... moreThis study deals with the depression tax, which was put into effect in the Turkish tax system as a consequence of the Great Depression of 1929 that affected the whole world. The depression tax, which was enacted during an extraordinary period, and expected to be temporary, remained in the Turkish tax system for nearly 20 years. Depending on the severity of the depression, some changes were made over time, both in the scope of the tax liability and in the amount of tax. In all these changes, it was always emphasized that in such a devastating period, the majority of society should bear the potential burden. These changes in this period also attracted the attention of the Turkish press. This news, while providing information about the process of the depression tax, also listed criticisms about it. All in all, this tax, which was a consequence of the Great Gepression, showed us the profound impact of the Great Depression on Turkey's economy. In this sense, making use of the press of the period (Akşam newspaper) in the examination of the depression tax makes the study important. It is because the news used in the study ensures that the relevant period is investigated from a window of itself. This makes the evaluations on the subject in question valuable. Considering all these sentiments, it is regarded that this study may contribute to the studies to be put forward in the field of public finance history, albeit a small one.Save to LibraryDownloadby Şahin Yeşilyurt, PhD•  2  History of Turkish Economy, History of taxation[XХIV-XXVI; XXX семинары] «Китай и мир. Традиции и современность»Отчёт о XХIV-XXVI и XXX семинарах Отдела Китая ИВ РАН "Китай и мир. Традиции и современность" (декабрь 2016; март, апрель, октябрь 2017 г). Доклады М.В. Королькова (налогообложение в раннеимперском Китае), Г.С. Старостина (актуальные... moreОтчёт о XХIV-XXVI и XXX  семинарах Отдела Китая ИВ РАН "Китай и мир. Традиции и современность" (декабрь 2016; март, апрель, октябрь 2017 г). Доклады М.В. Королькова (налогообложение в раннеимперском Китае), Г.С. Старостина (актуальные вопросы исторической лингвистики и фонологии древнекитайского языка), Ю.А. Дрейзис (современная китайская поэзия), Т.Б. Будаевой (современное состояние китайской традиционной музыкальной драмы) и Т.А. Сафина (новые тенденции в изучении гадательых костей цзягувэнь).Приношу свои извинения Туяне Баторовне Будаевой за неверное написание её фамилии.XXIV-XXVI, XXXth Seminars of China Department (Institute of Oriental Studies, Russian Academy of Sciences) "China and the world. Traditions and modernity", December 2016, March, April, October 2017. Reports of Maxim Korolkov (taxes in early imperial China), Georgiy Starostin (actual questions of hitorical linguistics and phonology of Old Chinese), Yulia Dreizis (contemporary Chinese poetry), Tujana Budaeva (modern situation in Chinese traditional musical drama) and Timur Safin (new tendencies in Oracle bones studies).My apologizes to Dr. Tujana Budaeva for a wrong spelling of her family name.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergey Dmitriev•  14  Taxation, China, Chinese poetry, Contemporary PoetryMarktgerechtigkeit und Steuer(un)gerechtigkeit. Internationale Ordnungsvorstellungen und die schweizerischen SteuerweltenEs handelt sich um die im Januar 2016 akzeptierte/korrigierte Beitragsfassung für den auf 2018 angekündigten Band: Günther Schulz (Hg.): Ordnung und Chaos. Trends und Brüche in der Wirtschafts- und Sozialgeschichte. Erträge der 26.... moreEs handelt sich um die im Januar 2016 akzeptierte/korrigierte Beitragsfassung für den auf 2018 angekündigten Band:Günther Schulz (Hg.): Ordnung und Chaos. Trends und Brüche in der Wirtschafts- und Sozialgeschichte. Erträge der 26. Arbeitstagung der Gesellschaft für Sozial- und Wirtschaftsgeschichte / des 1. Deutschen Kongresses für Wirtschaftsgeschichte in Münster vom 11. bis 14. März 2015. Franz Steiner Verlag, Stuttgart 2018 (im Druck).Save to LibraryDownloadby Gisela Huerlimann•  10  History of Switzerland, OECD, Tax Justice, History of taxationVám- és adószedők a magyar pénzügyi igazgatásban az államalapítástól a kiegyezésigSave to LibraryDownloadby Adrienn Magasvári•  3  History, History of taxation, History of customs(2017) Sanskrit Text and Translation of K. 1320, a tenth-century edict of the Khmer king Īśānavarman II about the annual taxes to be paid by Liṅgapura (Vat Phu)An annotated edition and French translation of K. 1320 has recently appeared in Aséanie 33 (Goodall and Jacques 2014), but, given the importance of the document and its potential appeal for the many visitors to Vat Phu, an English... moreAn annotated edition and French translation of K. 1320 has recently appeared in Aséanie 33 (Goodalland Jacques 2014), but, given the importance of the document and its potential appeal for the manyvisitors to Vat Phu, an English translation seems desirable. For the inscription is not only a major newsource for the history of Vat Phu, testifying once again to the centrality of this Śaiva site in the religiouslandscape of the Khmers, but also the only document hitherto discovered that furnishes any sort ofdetailed information about taxation for the entire Angkorian period.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dominic Goodall•  9  Sanskrit language and literature, Laos (Lao PDR), Cambodian History, EpigraphyFuentes fiscales para el estudio de las oligarquías urbanas en la Castilla del siglo XV: las informaciones de fianzasIn this work we offer the edition and a first approach to some “investigations of guarantors” concerning the farming of royal taxes in the bishoprics of León and Astorga during the reigns of John II and Henry IV of Castile, including also... moreIn this work we offer the edition and a first approach to some “investigations of guarantors” concerning the farming of royal taxes in the bishoprics of León and Astorga during the reigns of John II and Henry IV of Castile, including also an investigation of the year 1467 concerning the ‘merindad’ of Saldaña, in which both the tax-farmer and his guarantors are citizens of León or Astorga. Some of them concern also the bishopric of Zamora or some Castilian ‘merindades’. After some preliminary considerations, we expose briefly their content and explore the connections between tax-farmers and guarantors. En el presente trabajo ofrecemos la edición y un primer acercamiento a una serie de “informaciones de fianzas” relativas al arrendamiento de rentas regias en los obispados de León y Astorga durante los reinados de Juan II y Enrique IV, añadiendo además una información del año 1467 relativa a la merindad de Saldaña, en la cual tanto el arrendador como sus fiadores son vecinos de León o Astorga. Algunas de ellas afectan también al obispado de Zamora o algunas merindades castellanas. Después de unas reflexiones preliminares, se expone sumariamente su contenido y se exploran las conexiones entre arrendadores y fiadores.Save to LibraryDownloadby Raul Gonzalez Gonzalez•  10  Medieval History, Jewish History, Kingdom of Castile in the Middle Ages, Urban Elites "Prassi documentarie e gestione delle finanze nei comuni del principato di Savoia-Acaia (Moncalieri, Pinerolo, Torino, fine secolo XIII-prima metà secolo XIV)", in "Scrineum Rivista", 11 (2014), pp. 217-259This essay deals with the birth of a practical documentation relating to the current managing of direct taxation in several communes of the principality of Savoy-Achaea, in Piedmont (particularly Moncalieri, Pinerolo and Turin), between... moreThis essay deals with the birth of a practical documentation relating to the current managing of direct taxation in several communes of the principality of Savoy-Achaea, in Piedmont (particularly Moncalieri, Pinerolo and Turin), between the end of the 13th century and the first half of the 14th century. The increase in the tax burden of the prince on communities stimulated the development of the structure and contents of municipal accounting records. On the one hand there was a gradual tendency for writing the majority of the collection and audit operations carried out by municipal officers. On the other hand, the accounting records were organized as a coherent system of thematic registers, tied to one another by functional links and intertextuality. After 1330 a municipal finance crisis caused an increase of political functions attributed to accounting records, as an instrument of control over the fiscal behaviour of citizens; an effect of this situation was the production of registers dedicated to lists of tax evaders.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paolo Buffo•  21  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Paleography, CodicologyLa fiscalité directe des cantons suisses / Die direkten Steuern in den Schweizer Kantonen - Législations et pratiques aux XIXe et XXe siècles / Gesetzgebung und Praxis im 19. und 20. JahrhundertSave to LibraryDownloadby Hadrien Buclin•  4  Swiss History, Fiscalité, History of taxation, Histoire de la SuisseL’introduction de l’impôt sur le revenu en Russie impériale : la genèse et l’élaboration d’une réforme inachevéeSave to LibraryDownloadby Natalia PLATONOVA•  4  Russian History, Russian Empire, Financial History, History of taxation(2014 [appeared 2017]) Stèle inscrite d’Īśānavarman II à Vat Phu : K. 1320. (2. Texte sanskrit et traduction).   Dominic GOODALL & Claude JACQUESThis article gives the Sanskrit Text and Translation of K. 1320, a tenth-century edict of the Khmer king Īśānavarman II about the annual taxes to be paid by Liṅgapura (Vat Phu). (The article is preceded, in the volume in which it appears,... moreThis article gives the Sanskrit Text and Translation of K. 1320, a tenth-century edict of the Khmer king Īśānavarman II about the annual taxes to be paid by Liṅgapura (Vat Phu). (The article is preceded, in the volume in which it appears, by an introductory essay by Claude Jacques.) In January 2013, the discovery of a beautifully engraved and perfectly preserved four-sided stela at Vat Phu was announced in the press (Vientiane Times, 15th January). This stela proved to be a document produced at the behest of a Khmer monarch about whom not much else is known called Īśānavarman II, probably in 926 AD, his first regnal year. It is not only a major new source for the history of Vat Phu, testifying once again to the centrality of this Śaiva site in the religious landscape of the Khmers, but also a unique source for information about taxation in kind in the Angkorian period.  Because the Khmer empire made almost no use of coinage at any point in its history, the list of items constituting the taxes here makes colourful reading.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dominic Goodall•  12  Sanskrit language and literature, Sanskrit, Religious Geography, Cambodian HistoryDie Steuerforderungen des Heiligen Römischen Reiches an die Kirchenprovinz Riga im 15. JahrhundertThis paper analyzes the relations of medieval Livonia to the Holy Roman Empire in the 15th century on the basis of imperial taxation. During this century first attempts were made to institute imperial taxes, but due to the lack of ’state... moreThis paper analyzes the relations of medieval Livonia to the Holy Roman Empire in the 15th century on the basis of imperial taxation. During this century first attempts were made to institute imperial taxes, but due to the lack of ’state structures’ these taxes were to be collected on the basis of archbishoprics. I argue that Livonia was considered among the regions under imperial taxation because of its affinity to Prussia and not of its own accord.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mihkel Mäesalu•  10  History of Estonia, Medieval Germany, Holy Roman Empire, Teutonic Knights" The field of finance " : War and Taxation in Holland, Flanders, and Brabant, 1572–85The Dutch province of Holland has solicited much research in the context of the link between war and political development, an important theme in early modern historiography. During the Dutch Revolt in the late sixteenth century it became... moreThe Dutch province of Holland has solicited much research in the context of the link between war and political development, an important theme in early modern historiography. During the Dutch Revolt in the late sixteenth century it became the core and financial bedrock of a new, powerful, and very prosperous polity: the Dutch Republic. Why Flanders and Brabant, larger and traditionally wealthier, failed where Holland succeeded and were retaken by King Philip II's army has never been explained. One difference was the structurally narrower political base in Brabant and Flanders; compared to Holland fewer people had a part and stake in the government. But the main problem in the former provinces was a structural lack of finances. From 1578 the war was right on top of them, which made the collection of newly introduced taxes impossible and attempts at administrative reorganization fruitless. War destroyed the tax base in Brabant and Flanders, while Holland's taxes were the foundation of its success. It is impossible to manage a small family well, much less an entire country, especially in time of war, without means of money, and … daily experience teaches us that the most frequent problems exist in the field of finance, such that we would surpass our common enemy in every way, if we could only bring the contributions of money on a secure footing, and put aside all particular considerations. Gerhard Prouninck to the government of Antwerp, 1581 1Save to LibraryDownloadby Erik  Swart•  17  Early Modern History, War Studies, Early Modern Europe, State BuildingRefeudalisierung des Steuerstaates? Vorüberlegungen zu einer politischen Theorie der Steuerdemokratiein: Sigrid Boysen et al. (Hrsg.): Verfassung und Verteilung. Beiträge zu einer Grundfrage des Verfassungsverständnisses, Tübingen: Mohr Siebeck 2015, S. 175-216.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sebastian  Huhnholz•  11  Intellectual History, Political Science, Taxation, Tax PolicyNextLast »Related TopicsDirect TaxesFollowFollowingIncome TaxFollowFollowingMedieval and Early Modern History of the German Minority in Transylvania/HungaryFollowFollowingTaxationFollowFollowingSafavid PeriodFollowFollowingColonial and Imperial (British) Legal HistoryFollowFollowingLegal HistoryFollowFollowingTax AvoidanceFollowFollowingOttoman AgricultureFollowFollowingFiscal HistoryFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023