UHCC Nondiscrimination Policy
Home
Academic Affairs
Academic Programs
Grants
HI Student Success Institute
Strategic Directions 2015 - 2021
State Sector Convening Project
Workforce Development
Administrative Affairs
Budget Planning and Finance
Compliance and Title IX
Equal Employment Opportunity
Facilities and Environmental Health
Human Resources
Marketing and Communications
Policies
For Students
Apply Now
Pay for College
More Information
You are here: 
Home
>>
                            UHCC Nondiscrimination Statement
                        
English
简体中文: Chinese (Simplified)
繁體中文: Chinese (Traditional)
Kapasen Chuuk: Chuukese
ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi: Hawaiian
Ilokano: Ilocano
日本語: Japanese
한국어: Korean
Kajin Majôl: Marshallese
Gagana Samoa: Samoan
Español: Spanish
Tagalog: Tagalog
faka-Tongá: Tongan
Tiếng Việt: Vietnamese
UHCC Nondiscrimination Statement
It is the policy of the university to provide equity of opportunity in higher education, both in the educational mission and as an employer. The university is committed to comply with all State and Federal statutes, rules, and regulations which prohibit discrimination. The university is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, sex, gender identity and expression, age, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, disability, genetic information, marital status, breastfeeding, income assignment for child support, arrest and court record (except as permissible under state law), sexual orientation, national guard absence, or status as a covered veteran. This policy covers admission and access to and participation, treatment, and employment in the university’s programs and activities. Discriminatory harassment, including sexual harassment, is prohibited under this policy. The university shall promote a full realization of equal opportunity through a positive, continuing program of nondiscrimination and affirmative action (41 CFR Chapter 60) on each campus.
The University of Hawaii Community Colleges (UHCC) offer various Career and Technical Education (CTE) programs of study leading to Associate of Science (AS) and Associate of Applied Science (AAS) degrees, as well as postsecondary certificates. While all UHCC campuses apply an open access policy, program admission may be based on completion of applicable course/testing prerequisites and a few UHCC programs apply further additional admission criteria. The lack of English skills will not be a barrier to admission or participation in CTE programs.
For language assistance, contact the campus admissions office. For questions about the UHCC Nondiscrimination Policy contact your campus 504 coordinator, Title IX coordinator, or the UHCC system coordinator:
                        
                        Director (UHCC System Section 504 and Title IX Coordinator)
                        Office of Compliance, EEO/AA, and Title IX
                        2327 Dole Street, Room 1
                        Phone: (808) 965-4564
                        Fax: (808) 956-2503
                        Email: eeocc@hawaii.edu
                    
Contact Us
Send us an email
    If you require an alternate format, please
    contact your campus.
                                         
                                        
Connect with us
                                            We're on Social Networks. Follow us & get in touch.
                                            
QUICK LINKS
UH System News
About us
Mission Statement
Job Opportunities
Privacy Statement
Campus Emergency Contacts
Campus Emergency Contacts
        Hawai'i CC - (808) 854-1420
        Honolulu CC - (808) 284-1270
        Kapi'olani CC (808) 734-9900
        Kaua'i CC (808) 212-2679
        Leeward CC - (808) 455-0611
        UH Maui - (808) 984-3255
        Windward CC - (808) 235-7355
    
© 2023 University of Hawaii Office of the Vice President for Community Colleges | An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Institution | Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy 