Mahathir regrets govt focussing too much on Bahasa | Daily Express Newspaper Online, Sabah, Malaysia.
46 captures
06 Oct 2013 - 09 Jul 2023
Feb
JUL
Oct
12
2013
2014
2015
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Live Web Proxy Crawls
  Content crawled via the Wayback Machine Live Proxy mostly by the Save Page Now feature on web.archive.org.

Liveweb proxy is a component of Internet Archive’s wayback machine project. The liveweb proxy captures the content of a web page in real time, archives it into a ARC or WARC file and returns the ARC/WARC record back to the wayback machine to process. The recorded ARC/WARC file becomes part of the wayback machine in due course of time.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20140712044336/http://www.dailyexpress.com.my/news.cfm?NewsID=86783
INDEPENDENT NATIONAL NEWSPAPER OF EAST MALAYSIA
Established since 1963
Front Page | 
About Us | 
Contact Us | 
Advertisement | 
Mobile
Home
Sabah
National
Business
Sport
Features
Mahathir regrets govt focussing too much on Bahasa
Published on: Wednesday, October 02, 2013
 Email to a friend      Printer Friendly
FORMER Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad today reiterated his earlier stand that schools must teach Science and Mathematics in English.    
He was commenting on the National Education Blueprint 2013-2025, which was unveiled last month by Education Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin.    
Dr Mahathir went on the offensive today, claiming that he had given a lot of input for the blueprint and yet, very little of what he said was used by the Government.    
"The Government is focusing too much on Bahasa Malaysia.     
The Malays, however, are not experts in science and technology.     
This kind of knowledge comes from the West and the information is mostly in English," he added.    
Noting that the Government had instead followed the advice of National Laureate Datuk A. Samad Said by reverting to teaching both subjects in the national language, Dr Mahathir said this would only hamper the country's development.    
"He (Samad) only knows about Bahasa Malaysia. He is not a Science man.     
I am a Science man and I can still speak in Malay," he pointed out, adding, "This is why I keep talking about it."    
Meanwhile, Dr Mahathir joked that he would like to be the prime minister again, after being told that he was recently voted the most popular Umno leader.    
Malaysia's prime minister of 22 years scored 79pc satisfaction level among 600 Umno supporters in a survey which was conducted last month by the Merdeka Centre.    
"I financed them," he quipped at a press conference today, causing the room to erupt in laughter.    
Even though he resigned as prime minister 10 years ago this month, Dr Mahathir fared better than Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak who scored 69pc, Home Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Zahid Hamidi (58pc) and Deputy Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin (54pc).    
Site Search
Today's Most Read
Move timely: Musa
Man falls and dies inside clinic
Man sought over stabbing of teenager
Mishap victim burnt to death
Wrath of Neoguri felt
Healthy new born dumped at dumpsite
Sabah DAP says it is a 'delayed right move'
Bid to smuggle in RM405,512 palm oil foiled
Labuan roast meat import hassle resolved
More stable power supply Aug
Related News
Esscom revamped for more bite
Two students of S'kan ITI tops  national  contest
Identities of those who leaked info known: Zahid
MAS introduces mandatory self check-in
Advertisement
© Copyright 2014 Sabah Publishing House Sdn. Bhd.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
Powered by JuiceAPac