Building Information Modelling Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Building Information Modelling12,182 FollowersRecent papers in Building Information ModellingTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleBuilding Information Modeling: analyzing noteworthy publications of eight countries using a knowledge content taxonomyBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) tools and workflows have the potential to significantly improve the efficiency of design, construction and operation activities. Numerous BIM deliverables and their respective requirements have been... moreBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) tools and workflows have the potential to significantly improve the efficiency of design, construction and operation activities. Numerous BIM deliverables and their respective requirements have been widely discussed by industry stakeholders. This is evidenced by the intensity of online communications surrounding BIM topics and the accelerating availability of noteworthy BIM publications (NBP)s. NBPs are publically-available industry documents incorporating guidelines, protocols and requirements focusing on BIM deliverables and workflows. These publications are the product of various governmental bodies, industry associations, communities of practice and research institutions, intended to facilitate BIM adoption, and realize BIM’s value-adding potential. A specialized taxonomy is employed to analyze 57 noteworthy BIM publications from across eight countries selected for their active BIM scene. The BIM knowledge content (BKC) taxonomy includes three knowledge content clusters (guides, protocols and mandates) subdivided into 18 knowledge content labels (e.g. report, manual, and contract). Ten of these content labels are used to analyze and compare publications from Australia, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Preliminary content analysis is then performed which provides insight into the availability and distribution of BIM knowledge within noteworthy BIM publications. The analysis identifies knowledge gaps within publications and highlights opportunities for future research and complementary publication efforts. This chapter contributes to organizing BIM knowledge as contained within numerous noteworthy BIM publications and – by that - facilitates targeted access to their content. It provides a knowledge repository for construction industry stakeholder’s to utilize during BIM implementation and a research base for investigators seeking to identify and address knowledge gaps across the BIM domain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  23  Knowledge Management, Knowledge Models, Construction Technology, Construction ManagementBUSSINESS OPPORTUNITIES FOR QUANTITY SURVEYORS IN ICTConstruction significantly contributes to sustainable economic growth and the development of a nation. Nigeria's construction industry produces nearly 70 per cent of the nation’s fixed capital formation and accounts for 1.4 per cent of... moreConstruction significantly contributes to sustainable economic growth and the development of a nation. Nigeria's construction industry produces nearly 70 per cent of the nation’s fixed capital formation and accounts for 1.4 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP)Save to LibraryDownloadby Tobi Awojobi•Building Information ModellingHistoric building information modelling (HBIM)Save to LibraryDownloadby Eugene Mcgovern•  16  Civil Engineering, Conservation, Surveying, Reverse EngineeringThe Contribution of Building Information Modelling (BIM) to Green Building Design and Assessment in Abu Dhabi "ESTIDAMAEstidama is a mandatory Green Building code in Abu Dhabi by which the compliance of building design is being assessed. This paper examines the current design and assessment approaches for Green Buildings to identify the reasons that lead... moreEstidama is a mandatory Green Building code in Abu Dhabi by which the compliance of building design is being assessed. This paper examines the current design and assessment approaches for Green Buildings to identify the reasons that lead to delay defects and it investigates a new approach for improvement. The available literature provides a realistic understanding to the problems and shows the road to some potential solutions. The identified problems were mainly attributed to the manual assessment with too much human interference. The piled documents with limited resources left the assessment system too slow to handle the whole projects within the greater Abu Dhabi engendering high risk of the commitment to review mistakes. Therefore, this paper investigates the potentiality of automating several stages via the use of Building Information Modelling (BIM) into the assessment process. Different experienced participants from all aspects within the construction industry were interviewed...Save to LibraryDownloadby Khalel Ali•  3  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modelling, Process AutomationIndoor Air-Temperature Forecast for Energy-Efficient Management in Smart BuildingsIn the last few years, the reduction of energy consumption and pollution became mandatory. It became also a common goal of many countries. Only in Europe, the building sector is responsible for the total 40% of energy consumption and 36%... moreIn the last few years, the reduction of energy consumption and pollution became mandatory. It became also a common goal of many countries. Only in Europe, the building sector is responsible for the total 40% of energy consumption and 36% of CO2 pollution. Therefore, new control policies based on the forecast of buildings energy behaviors can be developed to reduce energy waste (i.e. policies for Demand Response and Demand Side Management). This paper discusses an innovative methodology for smart building indoor air-temperature forecasting. This methodology is based on a Non-linear Autoregressive neural network. This neural network has been trained and validated with a dataset consisting of six years indoor air-temperature values of a building demonstrator. In detail, we have studied three characterizing rooms and the whole building. Experimental results of energy prediction are presented and discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giansalvo Cirrincione•  19  Forecasting, Building Information Modeling, Forecasting and Prediction Tools, Demand ResponseBuilding Information Modeling in the AEC Industry Imperatives, Benefits and Challenges D31MI -Construction Practice and IT Anupam, KoulThe construction industry faces criticism for being inefficient with a poor productivity record. Several studies and reports have clearly indicated that there needs to be a fundamental shift in the methods employed by the industry to... moreThe construction industry faces criticism for being inefficient with a poor productivity record. Several studies and reports have clearly indicated that there needs to be a fundamental shift in the methods employed by the industry to achieve this. Building Information Modelling is emerging as a solution with the potential to affect fundamental changes, not only in the project delivery process, but throughout the project life cycle. Even so, most of the Architectural, Engineering and Construction industry remains unaware of BIM and the manner in which it can impact their work. This study uses literature review to evaluate the status of BIM in the AEC industry, imperatives for adopting BIM, benefits to be gained and challenges facing a successful adoption of BIM. The existing literature on the subject indicates that for the projects that have adopted BIM, there has been a significant value addition for all of the stakeholders. Even so, BIM faces challenges which are both technical and managerial. Better awareness of BIM in the industry and increased usage can assist in overcoming these challenges, as the industry becomes more aware of the potential and limitations of BIM.Save to LibraryDownloadby Silver Arrow•Building Information ModellingAECOM, Тематическое исследование - Реализация Среды общих данных (CDE): преимущества, проблемы и соображения по использованию, 2018Данный документ является авторским переводом тематического исследования международной Компании AECOM, посвященного вопросам выбора, закупки и внедрения Среды общих данных (Common Data Environment; CDE) для обеспечения внедрения технологии... moreДанный документ является авторским переводом тематического исследования международной Компании AECOM, посвященного вопросам выбора, закупки и внедрения Среды общих данных (Common Data Environment; CDE) для обеспечения внедрения технологии BIM и перехода к цифровым решениям, инициируемых Правительством ШотландииSave to LibraryDownloadby Мария Широкова•  9  Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Building and Infrastructure Maintenance Management, BIM-technologyAligning Project Requirements with Team Capabilities (slides with notes)Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  11  Construction Project Management, Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Competency MappingParametric and associative design as a strategy for conceptual design and delivery to BIMSave to LibraryDownloadby Jeroen  Coenders•Building Information ModellingIfcOWL: A case of transforming EXPRESS schemas into ontologiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Jakob Beetz•  3  Ontology (Computer Science), Construction Informatics, Building Information ModellingBuilding information model based energy/exergy performance assessment in early design stagesSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohsen Shaghaghian•  16  Engineering, Design, Climate Change, ModelingAPPLICATION OF BUILDING INFORMATION MODELLING (BIM) IN A RESIDENTIAL PROJECT IN INDIA: BENEFIT-COST ANALYSISBuilding information modelling (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates... moreBuilding information modelling (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates simulations that can be used for the project manager, owners, facility manager or other parties to look after the project and deliver the project more ef iciently. The implementation of BIM in India is still at a nascent stage due to a lack of knowledge of the advantages of BIM. Moreover, there have been only a few case studies conducted in India about BIM; therefore, the principal agenda of this study is to enlighten the readers about the bene its accrued if BIM is applied, in the residential project, before the construction. Hence, the authors had taken a residential project located in Gujarat, India, for a case study. The 3D and 4D models of the project were generated; 8 errors were identi ied that could have been detected before construction if BIM had been applied. The cost needed to make a BIM model was |171,050. Whereas, the amount that could have been saved if BIM was implemented beforehand was discovered as |246,773. Consequently, the bene its to cost ratio for two weeks in delay was determined as 1.44. It can be recognised as the bene it of utilising BIM for construction.Save to LibraryDownloadby INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIES AND MANAGEMENT RESEARCH I J E T M R JOURNAL and +1Harshil S. Thakkar•  5  India, Gujarat, BIM Education, Building Information Modelling34 4D PLANNING AND SCHEDULING (4DPS): GROUNDING CONSTRUCTION IT RESEARCH IN INDUSTRY PRACTICESave to LibraryDownloadby Luis Alarcón•  105  Civil Engineering, Russian Studies, Information Technology, Research MethodologyApplication of Building Information Modelling (Bim) in a Residential Project in India: Benefit-Cost AnalysisBuilding information (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates simulations... moreBuilding information (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates simulations that can be used for the project manager, owners, facility manager or other parties to look after the project and deliver the project more efficiently. The implementation of BIM in India is still at a nascent stage due to a lack of knowledge of the advantages of BIM. Moreover, there have been only a few case studies conducted in India about BIM; therefore, the principal agenda of this study is to enlighten the readers about the benefits accrued if BIM is applied, in the residential project, before the construction. Hence, the authors had taken a residential project located in Gujarat, India, for a case study. The 3D and 4D models of the project were generated; 8 errors were identified that could have been detected before construction if BIM had been ap...Save to LibraryDownloadby Moses Adetunmbi•  7  Engineering, Building Information Modeling, India, GujaratBuilding information modelling framework: A research and delivery foundation for industry stakeholdersSave to LibraryDownloadby Hishyar Mohammed•  18  Engineering, Architecture, Visualization, Project ManagementChallenges for Integrated Design and Delivery SolutionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Robert Amor•  11  Information Technology, Physics, Knowledge Management, ArchitectureA semantic rule checking environment for building performance checkingSave to LibraryDownloadby Pieter Pauwels•  12  Engineering, Semantic Web, Construction Industry, AutomationBuilding Information Modeling in Syria: Obstacles and Requirements for ImplementationThe crucial need for innovative sophisticated, and complex Architectural, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry projects with in-depth details makes traditional methods inappropriate for the completion of projects with desired... moreThe crucial need for innovative sophisticated, and complex Architectural, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry projects with in-depth details makes traditional methods inappropriate for the completion of projects with desired efficiency, performance and productivity. Therefore, AEC projects in Syria suffered from myriad issues such as Behind the Schedule, over budget, inferior quality, low productivity, without sustainability and more. However, Building information Modelling (BIM) proves its capability to solve these issues. The aim of this study is to identify the obstacles and the critical influencing factors for applying BIM in Syria in the AEC industry. Extensive investigation for literature review were used to analyze the results. This study classified the obstacles related to three category: 1) Planning, Design and Auditing systems, 2) BIM System, 3) Management, Financial and Legal factors. In spite of, the government and clients play the vital role to mandate BIM, the mixed approach (top-down and bottom-up) is recommended to expedite BIM implementation. This study provides a novel contribution by identifying the main obstacles and developing new strategies for applying BIM in AEC and reconstruction which enhance projects quality, performance and efficiency.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ashraf Elhendawi•  4  Project Management, Construction Management, Construction Project Management, Building Information ModellingAN EVALUATION OF THE IMPACT OF BUILDING INFORMATION MODELLING (BIM) ON PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN THE UK CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRYConstruction is a sector that has been tagged with poor performance in the UK. Reports on the industry since 1944 have repeatedly described the industry as fragmented and adversarial. Furthermore, poor project information arising from... moreConstruction is a sector that has been tagged with poor performance in the UK. Reports on the industry since 1944 have repeatedly described the industry as fragmented and adversarial. Furthermore, poor project information arising from paper-based drawings and other instructions have been blamed as a one of the major causes of this poor performance. Through technology, industries like manufacturing have improved performance by working in fully collaborative digital 3D environments that foster collaboration. Comparatively the construction industry still retains much of its traditional paper-based design and craft-based construction culture. Building information modelling (BIM) promises to transform construction into a more modern industry and improve performance throughout the project life cycle.This dissertation examines the impact of BIM on project performance in the UK construction industry by evaluating how it assists the project manager deliver projects to budget, on schedule and to the specified quality. The central objectives are; to examine the effectiveness of traditional paper-based modes of operation and the current tools and techniques of project managers in the UK construction industry, to examine the awareness of project managers regarding BIM and its applications, how BIM can assist project managers and how BIM can improve project performance in the UK construction industry, to examine and identify the benefits of BIM adoption by project managers in the UK construction industry and to examine and identify the challenges of BIM adoption by project managers in the UK construction industry.The findings of this study are based on responses from a structured questionnaire on BIM awareness, benefit, challenges and usage in project management. The results from the data gathered indicate that project managers do not see BIM making direct improvements to their functional operations but rather improves general project performance. Project managers see the value and benefit of BIM more in terms of the entire life cycle management of the capital investment. It was also observed that BIM can help project managers make better decisions due to a relatively clearer depiction of reality compared to 2D drawings, communicate more effectively with project participants and help maintain greater control of the project.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kwame Anim Gyarteng•  13  Civil Engineering, Architecture, Project Management, Quantity SurveyingIntegrating BIM and gaming for real-time interactive architectural visualizationSave to LibraryDownloadby Charles Culp•  26  Engineering, Game Theory, Design, Visualization301in.ES Matriz de Madurez BIMLa Matriz de Madurez BIM (BIm3) es una Herramienta de Conocimiento para identificar la Madurez BIM actual de organizaciones o Equipos de Proyecto. La BIm3 tiene 2 ejes: el Conjunto de Capacidades BIM y el Índice de Madurez BIM. La Matriz... moreLa Matriz de Madurez BIM (BIm3) es una Herramienta de Conocimiento para identificar la Madurez BIM actual de organizaciones o Equipos de Proyecto. La BIm3 tiene 2 ejes: el Conjunto de Capacidades BIM y el Índice de Madurez BIM. La Matriz de Madurez BIM está pensada para la auto-evaluación de organizaciones a un nivel bajo. Este documento se publicó en Inglés el 7 de julio de 2016. La versión española ha sido traducida por Víctor Roig de BIMETRIC Laboratorio de Procesos SL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  14  Spanish, Construction Technology, Construction Management, Assessing PerformanceDIVERSE APPROACH OF BIM IN AEC INDUSTRY: A STUDY ON CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND PRACTICESave to LibraryDownloadby Mohamed Rahman•Building Information ModellingCurrent application of graphical programming in the design phase of a BIM project: Development opportunities and future scenarios with DynamoIn the last decade the design process in the AEC industry was strongly influenced by new tools, which are based on the method Building Information Modelling. Shortcomings like the lack of suitable computational approaches available for... moreIn the last decade the design process in the AEC industry was strongly influenced by new tools, which are based on the method Building Information Modelling. Shortcomings like the lack of suitable computational approaches available for designers and engineers were identified. Several textual programming approaches for automating tasks have failed due to various reasons. The success of Grasshopper has highlighted the demand for tools, which can be used by non-programmers but still have the ability to create algorithms for multi-criteria design optimisations. Several software manufacturers have started to offer graphical programming tools in the last years. Thus the promising graphical programming tool ‘Dynamo’ and its usage have been studied in detail. Therefore a survey about Dynamo was conducted and evaluated and compared with the findings from existing literature. The research presents technical details about the software and possible future developments. The results show a clear acceptance by non-programmers and also areas for improvement. Overall Dynamo has proven to be a suitable approach for the BIM design workflow by reducing labour time, better quality assurance, and by supporting interoperability of software.Save to LibraryDownloadby Thomas M Vogt•  11  Parametric Design (Architecture), Automation in Construction management, Computational Design, Building Information ModellingBIM Framework Essentials - IntroductionThis presentation (and video) introduces the BIM Framework, its principles and goals. It also explains how the BIM Framework is composed of multiple interconnected part, each simplifying a complex topic, identifying a workflow, or... moreThis presentation (and video) introduces the BIM Framework, its principles and goals. It also explains how the BIM Framework is composed of multiple interconnected part, each simplifying a complex topic, identifying a workflow, or delivering a performance measurement/decision support tool.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  10  Information Technology, E-learning, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture)BIM Framework Essentials - Definition of BIMThis presentation (and video) introduces the term Building Information Modelling. The research-based definition is comprehensive and is used across all BIM Framework presentations and videos.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  10  Information Technology, Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture)Economic development and construction safety research: A bibliometrics approachThe construction industry contributes significantly to economic development worldwide, yet it is one of the most hazardous industries where numerous accidents and fatalities happen every year. Little research to date has shed light on the... moreThe construction industry contributes significantly to economic development worldwide, yet it is one of the most hazardous industries where numerous accidents and fatalities happen every year. Little research to date has shed light on the impact of economic development on construction safety research. In this paper, we conduct an analysis of construction safety articles published in the 21st century via a bibliometrics approach. We have analysed: (1) construction safety in developed and developing countries; (2) the major organisations that have conducted construction safety research; (3) authors and territories of the research and (4) topics in construction safety and future research directions. The largest number of published construction safety documents were published by scholars from the US and China; the total number of published articles by these two countries was 1,125, at 56% of the 2000 articles that were published. Both countries showed high levels of research collaboration. While our results suggest that economic development may drive academic construction safety research, there has been an increase in construction safety research conducted by developing countries in recent years, probably due to an improvement in their economic development. While authors' keywords evidenced the popularity of research on safety management and climate, the network analysis on all keywords, i.e. keywords given by Web of Science and authors, suggest that construction safety research focused on three areas: construction safety management, the relationship between people and construction safety, and the protection and health of workers' impact on construction safety. We found that there is a new interdisciplinary research trend where construction safety combines with digital technologies, with the largest number involving deep learning. Other trends focus on machine learning, Building Information Modelling, machine learning and visualisation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rita Li•  19  Civil Engineering, Safety Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, ArchitectureReview of Studies on BIM Adoption in AEC IndustryTo cite: Ademci, E., Gundes, S. (2018) Review of Studies on BIM Adoption in AEC Industry, 5th International Project and Construction Management Conference (IPCMC) Proceedings, p.1046 -1055, N. Cyprus, 16-18 Nov. Abstract In recent... moreTo cite: Ademci, E., Gundes, S. (2018) Review of Studies on BIM Adoption in AEC Industry, 5th International Project and Construction Management Conference (IPCMC) Proceedings, p.1046 -1055, N. Cyprus, 16-18 Nov.AbstractIn recent decades, increased complexity of construction projects combined with improvements in computer technology have compelled the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry to integrate Building Information Modeling (BIM) into its operations. Growing client demands, contractual obligations, new government regulations and an expanded awareness on cost savings and improved efficiency provided by BIM have further stimulated the dissemination of BIM technologies in construction. However, the transformation of the industry has not been exempted from problems, many of them stemming from incongruence with a multidisciplinary working environment, collaboration issues and the challenges in the adoption and utilization of a new technology. Although there seems to be consensus among researchers and industry professionals that the proliferation of BIM in the sector would bring numerous advantages and efficiency, it is not yet clear which factors contribute to a smooth transition in the sector. Using a systematic literature review, the present research aims to reveal the challenges faced by AEC industry in the adoption and implementation of BIM technologies. In this concept, a differentiation is made between the developing and the developed countries in terms of favourable conditions/weaknesses for BIM adoption and potential problems and their solutions are discussed.Keywords: Building Information Modeling, meta-analysis, diffusion, adoption, construction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ensar Ademci and +1Selin Gundes•  19  Adoption, Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Literature ReviewThe impact of building information modelling on estimating practice: analysis of perspectives from four organizational business models This study aims to explore the impact of 3D CAD and BIM on estimating practices based on the notion that both paradigms, in varying degrees, improve the cost performance of projects compared to the use of conventional design tools such as... moreThis study aims to explore the impact of 3D CAD and BIM on estimating practices based on the notion that both paradigms, in varying degrees, improve the cost performance of projects compared to the use of conventional design tools such as 2D-CAD. The objectives are: (1) to explore the activities required to develop workable estimates in different estimating practice domains and represent them in the form of process models; (2) to establish the degree of association and reliability of the identified activities; (3) to compare 3D CAD and BIM estimating processes across different practice domains (using discriminant analysis); and (4) to suggest how the process models can be implemented and further strengthened for application development. The theoretical framework of the study was based on Kagioglou et al.’s (1999) process re-engineering model - to define the forms and goals of estimates in the different phases of the development of construction projects. Further review of literature shows there are several estimating methods that are applicable to the various project development stages, which are ontologically stratified across the various construction business domains. Consequently, different perspectives of estimating practice in construction businesses are developed from four business structure models viz. the MModel (representing client organizations), the DModel (representing contracting organizations), the FModel (representing consulting practices) and the NModel (representing specialist project delivery systems such as IPD). Mixed and plural research methodologies were used to explore the stages and activities that are involved in 3D CAD and BIM estimating. Firstly, products of four software development organizations were investigated to ascertain how the applications were used for 3D CAD and BIM estimating. Data were also explored from 5 presentations on 3D CAD and BIM estimating by the software development companies to 77 subject-experts who offered their views on estimators’ expectations of BIM applications. Secondly, participants, 17 in total, were sourced from the 4 business models indicated above to discuss their 3D CAD and BIM estimating processes. Data were captured through focus group sessions and individual interviews. The estimating themes for 3D CAD and BIM were garnered from the aforementioned qualitative data using a combination of direct observation, focus group discussions and interview sessions. Through these methods, the stages and activities involved in the preparation of estimates based on 3D CAD and BIM across the four business structure models were identified and rated. These ratings were statistically analysed to test whether the variables were sufficiently robust to be used to create process models, which the different practice domains can deploy to generate workable estimates with 3D CAD and BIM. The data were normally distributed and were analysed parametrically. First scoring factor analyses showed that the views of participants from DModel and FModel practices were highly correlated in both 3D CAD and BIM regimes. In addition, multiple comparisons using Fisher-Hayter and ANOVA procedures showed the key characteristics of the variations between how participants from the different practice domains viewed the importance of activities leading to estimating outcomes. Additionally, reliability tests (Cronbach’s Alpha) were used to measure the internal correlation of the estimating activities that were identified in both 3DCAD and BIM. In 3D CAD, 16 out of the 31 themes were discounted for lack of internal consistencies. The resultant process model has an Alpha value of 0.96. In BIM regime, analyses show the Alpha value to be 0.95, while only four themes (estimating activities) were discounted for lack of statistical consistencies. The themes retained after the reliability tests formed the centroid (group representative) process models for the 3D CAD and BIM estimating. However, the derived variables in the centroid models apply differently to the practice domains. Consequently, both ad-hoc and post-hoc data were analysed to determine the discrimination of the centroid models across the four practice domains. Implementation of the process models was also discussed. First, illustrations were made on system architectures for the process models. Second, indicative EXPRESS-G structures were provided to show how the process models can be advanced for implementation in the form of applications, training and for future research. Third, indicative integrated definition formats (IDEF0) were developed to illustrate how the outcomes of the process models can be strengthened with case-based control measures. This study has established that estimators still use conventional methods to estimate 3D CAD projects, and more than 50% of activities leading to estimate outcomes in this domain do not add value to estimating outcomes. This study also presented the key characteristics and enablers of opportunities for estimators in BIM. Recommendations were also drawn on how to develop change management models for dealing with operational issues when transiting from conventional practices to digital systems.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oluwole (Alfred)  Olatunji•  3  Building Information Modelling, Organiational Management, Estimating PracticeBIM Implentation in Iceland and Its Relation to Lean ConstructionFirms and organisations within the Icelandic AEC sector have shown an interest in Building Information Modelling (BIM), even adopted it and applied it to several projects. The main purpose of this research is to explore where the... moreFirms and organisations within the Icelandic AEC sector have shown an interest in Building Information Modelling (BIM), even adopted it and applied it to several projects. The main purpose of this research is to explore where the Icelandic AEC sector stands in its implementation process of BIM.The aim is pursued by reviewing implementation processes within public organisations in USA, UK, Norway, Denmark and Iceland. The results are compared against each other and gaps identified. The results indicate that there is a gap in the implementation process, where regulations on BIM use on public projects are lacking. Public organisations in Iceland are indeed adopting BIM but they cannot require it, only strive for it.A survey will be executed within organisations and firms within the Icelandic AEC sector, to find out to what extent BIM is being applied in Iceland. Previous researches show synergies between lean construction and BIM. In relation to that it will also be explored if the Icelandic AEC sector is practicing lean construction principles and to what extent.The survey results suggest that BIM is indeed being adopted in Iceland, 40% of respondents claim they are adopting BIM, mostly by architects and egnineers. The BIM maturity stage is somewhere inbetween maturity stage 1 and 2, due to the fact that no contractor reported on using BIM and only one firm reported of using lean construction.The organisations driving the implementation process here in Iceland and public and private clients can possibly gain some advantages from this research, which maps down where the process is today, what is missing and what can be done to contribute to a better construction process.Keywords: Building Information Modelling, lean construction, BIM adoption.Save to LibraryDownloadby Inga Kjartansdottir•  6  Lean Construction, BIM-technology, Building Information Modelling, Adapting to BIM and Strategies for AdoptionBUILDING INFORMATION MODELLING (BIM) IMPLEMENTATION FOR MEP SYSTEMS IN BUILDING:A CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORKThe challenge in coordination of Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing (MEP) systems is a common problem peculiar to the MEP industry. Although the traditional Two-Dimensional Computer Aided Design (2D CAD) has been used in the industry to... moreThe challenge in coordination of Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing (MEP) systems is a common problem peculiar to the MEP industry. Although the traditional Two-Dimensional Computer Aided Design (2D CAD) has been used in the industry to resolve the problem of coordination, it has not been effective. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to develop a conceptual framework for Building Information Modelling (BIM) that can be implemented in the MEP Industry. This will facilitate a seamless transition to BIM and solve the MEP coordination problem of the traditional 2D CAD project delivery approach. The conceptual framework was developed and refined through an extensive review of the literature concerning BIM. The framework developed is a model based collaboration framework that will allow MEP firms to collaborate to produce the coordinated construction model during the MEP coordination process. The framework has the potential to be used as a practical methodology for guiding the MEP firms that intend to implement BIM.Save to LibraryDownloadby HAMMED SHITTU and +1Nurshuhada Zainon•  4  Sustainable Building Design, Environmental Sustainability, Building Information Modelling, HVAC / Building ServicesCHARACTERISING BIM-BASED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS: A STRATEGIC AND CONTINGENT BIM APPLICATION MODELBIM application on construction projects is a potential risk that must be managed. Risk factors in construction projects will also increase with the extent of BIM application due to the challenges associated with BIM application. Managing... moreBIM application on construction projects is a potential risk that must be managed. Risk factors in construction projects will also increase with the extent of BIM application due to the challenges associated with BIM application. Managing the risk of BIM application on projects and the realisation of BIM value depends on the appropriate use of BIM. Several studies have identified the balance between BIM value, project characteristics, and BIM application as a way of mitigating the risk of BIM application on projects. However, frameworks or models providing the balance between the BIM value, project characteristics, and BIM application are scarce. Hence, using a meta-synthesis of relevant studies, this study proposes a strategic and contingent BIM application model for construction projects. The strategic part of the model entails the determination of BIM value and BIM effectiveness on a construction project by using appropriate BIM tools and processes for the project. The contingent part of the model involves the use of project complexity to determine the project expectations. The model turns into a strategic and contingent application of BIM on construction projects by matching the extent of BIM application to the level of project complexity. The model presents unique attributes for characterising BIM-based construction projects and provides a guide and research focus for case studies of BIM-based construction projects. Also, the model will make it easier to plan and manage BIM-based construction projects as well as enable a widespread application of BIM tools and processes.Save to LibraryDownloadby oluseye olugboyega•  9  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM EducationUNDERSTANDING THE CONCEPTUAL OF BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING: A LITERATURE REVIEWAmong the last decade there is several developments in the architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry, information technology and its application was the major one. Building Information Modeling (BIM) is now globally... moreAmong the last decade there is several developments in the architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) industry, information technology and its application was the major one. Building Information Modeling (BIM) is now globally considered a better solution to enormous building problems, it made huge effect on building and construction industry, and not only in the project design and implementation phases, but it is considered as a good tool for the whole project lifecycle. This paper aims to explain the concept of BIM including the definition, history, benefits and advantages. A conceptual understanding of (BIM) has been suggested in this paper depend on an extensive literature review. It is hoped that the concept emphasize in this paper will encourage positive debate on BIM and winning some concern from the practitioners and researchers.Save to LibraryDownloadby IAEME Publication•  4  Literature Review, Building Information Modelling, AEC, ConceptMetric-based BIM Implementation Assessment: A Review of Research and PracticeBuilding information modeling (BIM) is one of the most significant developments in the construction industry, as it introduces new technologies, processes, and interactions into practice. Prior research shows that there is an increasing... moreBuilding information modeling (BIM) is one of the most significant developments in the construction industry, as it introduces new technologies, processes, and interactions into practice. Prior research shows that there is an increasing interest among practitioners and academics to assess maturity, productivity, and performance of BIM implementation. This suggests that as BIM adoption grows, the need for BIM implementation assessment arises to facilitate monitoring, measuring, and improving BIM practices. However, so far, no single study has comprehensively reviewed and reported the existing approaches, metrics, and criteria used for assessing BIM practices. This study aims to review and analyze the literature and synthesize existing knowledge relevant to the topic. The author develops a thematic framework of BIM aspects, BIM goals, and performance evaluation trends to define grounds for assessing BIM implementation. Based on the framework, this research analyzed a total number of 97 references (selected out of 322 studies) to identify, extract, and classify metrics/criteria used for assessing BIM implementation. This study has practical implications for developing future BIM maturity models and BIM assessment tools as it synthesizes the existing developments on this topic, highlights gaps and limitations in metric-based BIM assessment, and provides recommendations for further research and developments.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hamid Abdirad•  23  Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project Management, Building Information ModelingBIM-enabled Health and Safety Coordination in the UK construction industrySave to LibraryDownloadby Dingayo Mzyece•  3  Building Information Modelling, Construction Health and Safety, Designing for Construction SafetyEffective Facility Management and Operations via a BIM-based Integrated Information SystemPurpose: The purpose of this paper is firstly to summarize the status quo of the building information management technologies applied in the facility management and operations (FM&O) sector and identifying prevailing issues; and secondly,... morePurpose: The purpose of this paper is firstly to summarize the status quo of the building information management technologies applied in the facility management and operations (FM&O) sector and identifying prevailing issues; and secondly, to devise technical solutions for those issues based on an exemplar case. Background: Considerable financial losses could occur as the result of insufficient interoperability issues among information systems. In order to minimize losses, Building Information Management (BIM) tools must be able to interoperate with a variety of digital FM&O systems. Approach: This research applies the principles of grounded theory as well as conceptual constructs of a proposed BIM framework. Firstly, descriptions of information management systems of eleven projects in technical reports are analyzed and the prevailing technical issues extracted. Then, a narrative representation of an IT-implementation project together with its organizational context has been provided. Finally, the most important issues from recent projects have been presented together with their respective solutions provided by the case project. Results: The results demonstrate that the most important issues in implementing BIM for streamlining FM&O activities are lack of guidelines and efficient technologies for capturing BIM models of existing facilities, coping with non-consistent terminologies and taxonomies, requirements specification in BIM applications, and identifying which information and what levels of detail are desired by the FM&O teams. Practical implications: In addition to scholars, the results are useful to database implementers and database designers, as well as decision-making buddies in the FM&O sector. Research limitations: More research in this area is needed with a focus on business processes and regulatory requirements. Originality/value: No earlier research has so thoroughly described the overall architecture and functionalities of different components of an integrated BIM FM portal solution with regard to the latest findings in both theory and practice.Save to LibraryDownloadby Johannes Dimyadi and +1Pouriya  Parsanezhad•  2  Facilities Management, Building Information ModellingNote sull’adozione italiana del building information modeling nel diritto degli appalti pubblici. Un’occasione mancata?ABSTRACT (IT): Il Legislatore Italiano, sulla scorta di quanto fatto da molti altri Legislatori europei, ha recepito nel diritto degli appalti pubblici, con l’art. 23, comma 1, lett. h) del D. Lgs. 50/2016, il Building Information... moreABSTRACT (IT): Il Legislatore Italiano, sulla scorta di quanto fatto da molti altri Legislatori europei, ha recepito nel diritto degli appalti pubblici, con l’art. 23, comma 1, lett. h) del D. Lgs. 50/2016, il Building Information Modeling (BIM) e la conseguente creazione di un ambiente digitale per il costante scambio di informazioni tra Committente ed esecutori per la progettazione, l’esecuzione e la manutenzione di opere complesse. Ciononostante, tale adozione sembra ancora ben distante dalla profonda compenetrazione delle nuove tecnologie e delle nuove forme di dialettica collaborativa che si riscontra in altri ordinamenti europei. Il presente contributo mira ad evidenziare la necessità che il percorso per la maggiore efficienza ed integrità del settore degli appalti pubblici prosegua celermente verso le nuove forme di alliancing che costituiscono, assieme alle nuove tecnologie, una naturale e irrinunciabile endiadi nell’esecuzione di lavori pubblici.ABSTRACT (EN): The Italian Legislator, on the basis of what has been done by many other European Legislators, has implemented in public procurement law, with art. 23, paragraph 1,letter h) of Legislative Decree 50/2016, the Building Information Modeling (BIM) and the consequent creation of a digital environment for the constant exchange of information between the Public contracting Authority and the executors for the design, execution and maintenance of complex works. Nevertheless, this adoption still seems to be far from the deep compenetration between new technologies and new forms of collaborative dialectics that can be found in other European systems. This contribution aims to highlight the need for the path towards greater efficiency and integrity in the public procurement sector to continue rapidly towards new forms of alliancing which, together with new technologies, constitute a natural and indispensable unitary complex in the execution of public works.http://www.csa-torino.it/attachments/052_QA%20III%20trim%202020.pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Claudio Costanzi•  9  Public Administration, Procurement, Construction Law, BIM (Architecture)Perspectives on Modelling BIM-enabled Estimating PracticesBIM-enabled estimating processes do not replace or provide a substitute for the traditional approaches used in the architecture, engineering and construction industries. This paper explores the impact of BIM on these traditional... moreBIM-enabled estimating processes do not replace or provide a substitute for the traditional approaches used in the architecture, engineering and construction industries. This paper explores the impact of BIM on these traditional processes.  It identifies differences between the approaches used with BIM and other conventional methods, and between the various construction professionals that prepare estimates. We interviewed 17 construction professionals from client organizations, contracting organizations, consulting practices and specialist-project firms. Our analyses highlight several logical relationships between estimating processes and BIM attributes. Estimators need to respond to the challenges BIM poses to traditional estimating practices. BIM-enabled estimating circumvents long-established conventions and traditional approaches, and focuses on data management.  Consideration needs to be given to the model data required for estimating, to the means by which these data may be harnessed when exported, to the means by which the integrity of model data are protected, to the creation and management of tools that work effectively and efficiently in multi-disciplinary settings, and to approaches that narrow the gap between virtual reality and actual reality.  Areas for future research are also identified in the paper.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oluwole (Alfred)  Olatunji•  4  Cost Management, Cost Estimation, Building Information Modelling, Estimating PracticeThe Need for an Integrated Cost Modelling Framework for Building Information Modelling (BIM)Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramadha De Silva•  2  Cost modelling, Building Information ModellingUptake of BIM and IPD within the UK AEC Industry: The Evolving Role of the Architectural TechnologistBuilding Information Modelling is not only a tool, but also the process of creation, maintenance, distribution and co-ordination of an integrated database that collaboratively stores 2D and 3D information, with embedded physical and... moreBuilding Information Modelling is not only a tool, but also the process of creation, maintenance, distribution and co-ordination of an integrated database that collaboratively stores 2D and 3D information, with embedded physical and functional data within a project-building model. The uptake of BIM within the UK Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) industry has been slow since the 1980’s, but over recent years, adoptions have increased. The increased collaborative nature of BIM, external data sharing techniques and progressively complex building design, promotes requirements for design teams to coordinate and communicate more effectively to achieve project goals. To manage this collaboration, new or evolved job roles may emerge. This research examined the current use of BIM, Integrated Project Delivery (IPD) and collaborative working in the UK AEC industry and job roles that have evolved or been created to cater for them. Using semi-structured interviews the interviewees indicated while several of the key enablers of IPD were being used, IPD itself had not been fully adopted. BIM was being used with some success but improvements could be made. New job roles such as the BIM Engineer and BIM Coordinator had been seen in the industry and evidence that the Architectural Technologist (AT) role is evolving into a more multidisciplinary role; this reflects similar findings of recent research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter James Morton•  4  BIM (Architecture), IPD (Architecture), Architectural technology, sustainability, building enclosure design, Building Information ModellingAssessing the BIM Maturity in a BIM Infant IndustryBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is rapidly gaining acceptance of building industries internationally, and is likely to become the primary industry standard for AEC information exchange in near future. The built-in intelligence of BIM... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is rapidly gaining acceptance of building industries internationally, and is likely to become the primary industry standard for AEC information exchange in near future. The built-in intelligence of BIM offers the highest potentials for adopting lean approaches for project delivery, and minimizing of risks and uncertainties; enabling highly sustainable procurement systems for the building industry. While it is accepted that BIM is in its infant stage in Sri Lanka and BIM technologies are rarely present, adoption of BIM has been identified to be timely. Use of inappropriate BIM adoption strategies would waste valuable resources and time.  This will also hinder the industry acceptance of BIM. Development of reliable strategies requires information on current BIM maturity in order to identify the gaps. Wider gaps in a BIM infant industry give rise to the number of potential alternative BIM adoption strategies. Thus, a coherent assessment of current context is crucial to chose most suitable strategies. Bew- Richards BIM Maturity Model and Succar’s BIM Maturity Stages were the widely referred models used to ascertain the BIM maturity of an industry o r an organization. However, these were found to be less useful to assess a BIM infant industry. The study proposes framework comprising four components, viz. collaborative processes, enhanced skill, integrated information and automated systems, and knowledge management.::  Note: Follow the URL above to download full text  ::..Save to LibraryDownloadby Himal Suranga Jayasena•  2  Building Information Modelling, BIM MaturityUse of BIM at higher learning institutions: Evaluating the level of implementation and development of BIM at built environment schools in South AfricaThe introduction of Building Information Modelling (BIM) into the Architecture, Engineering and Construction industry (AEC) has completely revolutionized how we design and construct buildings. BIM shows significant positive changes for... moreThe introduction of Building Information Modelling (BIM) into the Architecture, Engineering and Construction industry (AEC) has completely revolutionized how we design and construct buildings. BIM shows significant positive changes for the consulting industry in terms of reducing errors, understanding buildings, realistic visualization, clash detection amongst other remarkable features. However, BIM is an ongoing course of complex processes and it is important that users are kept in the loop of new concepts, processes and workflows. Universities, the world over are making concerted efforts to introduce and implement BIM education for their built environment courses as it has become a component of a professionals practical training. However, it is necessary to determine at what level BIM education is being implemented at educational institutions. This research explores how South African built environment schools have implemented BIM in their teaching syllabus and level of implementation. Data was collected using questionnaires from representatives at built environment schools or departments in the public universities. Findings reveal that there is some usage of 2D and 3D CAD in design modules at some universities. However results suggest very little implementation of BIM methods and processes in many universities. This research will be useful for the AEC industry in terms of judging the level of education in the BIM spectrum and can assist with future training of professionals, regarding BIM.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nischolan Pillay•  5  Education, BIM (Architecture), Built Environment, South AfricaANÁLISE COMPARATIVA DO PROCESSO DE ORÇAMENTO DE UM EMPREENDIMENTO RESIDENCIAL PELO MÉTODO TRADICIONAL (2D) E PELA MODELAGEM DA INFORMAÇÃO DA CONSTRUÇÃO (BIM)O objetivo central desta pesquisa de mestrado é a análise de um modelo BIM 5D, visando analisar os resultados obtidos através dessa nova tecnologia com os provenientes de métodos tradicionais de orçamentação. Os resultados têm referência... moreO objetivo central desta pesquisa de mestrado é a análise de um modelo BIM 5D, visando analisar os resultados obtidos através dessa nova tecnologia com os provenientes de métodos tradicionais de orçamentação. Os resultados têm referência no método de pesquisa constructive research. Busca-se, com a criação de um modelo BIM 5D, reduzir os problemas de imprecisão, confiabilidade dos dados e alta demanda de tempo para geração de informações do processo tradicional de orçamentação, sobretudo no que se refere a automatização das tarefas. A pesquisa envolveu o domínio do problema, proposição, implementação e teste da solução, ponderação do escopo, identificação e análise das contribuições. O domínio do problema abrangeu os temas BIM e gerenciamento de custos, com foco em orçamentação. Utilizou-se um modelo paramétrico BIM 3D com elementos e dados referentes à arquitetura e estrutura de uma edificação de quatro pavimentos em alvenaria autoportante. Após caracterização e validação, esse modelo foi exportado do software Revit 2015 para o software Vico R5.2. Os resultados mostram que uma orçamentação baseada em modelos BIM gera benefícios como extração automática de quantitativos, criação de planilha orçamentária vinculada ao modelo 3D, proporcionando atualizações automáticas e comparação dos custos de diferentes soluções de projeto. Porém, para o aperfeiçoamento do BIM 5D, problemas relacionados com a qualidade do modelo e falta de padronização das informações demandam melhorias na adequação de parâmetros de modelagem dos objetos. Sugere-se que os objetos sigam a nomenclatura de uma Estrutura Analítica de Projeto e que o modelo seja concebido com cada camada/material representada por elementos individuais e, portanto, separados uns dos outros. Constata-se a importância da validação do modelo 3D por softwares de checagem de regras e interferências em conjunto com um profissional da área de custos. Por fim, é proposto um fluxo de trabalho para elaboração de uma orçamentação BIM 5D e é feita uma análise das contribuições da nova tecnologia, além de uma discussão sobre o novo papel dos profissionais da área de gerenciamento de custos.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rodrigo R Bagno•  7  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Building Information ModellingA theoretical framework of a BIM-based multi-disciplinary collaboration platformSave to LibraryDownloadby Ning  Gu•  23  Information Systems, Engineering, Technology, InformaticsA SWOT analysis on the implementation of Building Information Models within the geospatial environmentSave to LibraryDownloadby Sisi  Zlatanova•  9  Information Management, Product Model, Building Information Modelling, Information SourcesSystematic Review on the Interprofessional Collaboration (IPC) in Building Information Modelling (BIM) Based Construction ProjectsBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) has been revolutionising the traditional construction management and workflow in the industry. The construction industry is known for fragmentation in its nature of project delivery. Therefore, it is... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) has been revolutionising the traditional construction management and workflow in the industry. The construction industry is known for fragmentation in its nature of project delivery. Therefore, it is essential to foster collaboration among stakeholders from various disciplines through BIM. Collaboration among the Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) professions strived to enhance teamwork, interactions, and information sharing by using a cloud-based environment. Furthermore, collaboration adds value to the project team to improve the sustainability and efficiency of work. There were abundant studies focused on examining the collaboration in the BIM-based construction projects, where the interdisciplinary approach was lacking. This study intends to present an analysis of the existing literature on the interprofessional collaboration (IPC) among the stakeholders' practices in the BIM projects. A total of ninety-six research journal articles regarding IPC in BIM-based projects was guided by the PRISMA Statement (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses) review method. Six main themes and thirty-nine sub-themes were identified as an outline of IPC, namely collaboration, individual characteristics, interactional characteristics, team interactional characteristics, organisational features, and professional roles characteristics. In the thematic analysis, team interaction was noticeably the most frequently discussed aspect in the previous studies. Further studies about the social aspects of IPC in BIM-based construction projects were recommended. It was suggested to study the subject in a quantitative or mixed-methods approach.Save to LibraryDownloadby FOO YEU WONG•  4  Systematic Literature Review, Building Construction, Building Information Modelling, Interprofessional CollaborationImproving architectural design analysis using 3D modeling and visualization techniquesSave to LibraryDownloadby Stefan Boeykens•  5  Visual Analysis, Architectural Design, Building Information Modelling, 3-D ReconstructionA FRAMEWORK FOR COLLABORATIVE BIM EDUCATION ACROSS THE AEC DISCIPLINES"The construction industry is beginning to move towards collaborative design practices worldwide, aided by building information modelling (BIM) tools and processes. However, the current shortage of building design professionals trained in... more"The construction industry is beginning to move towards collaborative design practices worldwide, aided by building information modelling (BIM) tools and processes. However, the current shortage of building design professionals trained in BIM remains a barrier to universal adoption of collaborative working practices in the industry. Collaborative working using BIM requires not only the learning of new technologies/software, but also the learning of a new way of working. This means moving from a culture of litigation and fragmentation to one of information sharing, collaboration, and integrated project delivery.  Various studies suggest that universities are lagging behind the construction industry in terms of adopting BIM technologies and improved collaborative working practices. Current building design education practice rarely involves collaboration between students training in the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) professions. In the majority of universities in the US, Europe and Australia, AEC students continue to be educated in separate departments, with little or no integration or collaboration between the disciplines. The author is currently involved in an Australian Office of Learning and Teaching (OLT) grant funded project. The aim of this project is to explore methods of improving collaborative design education among students of the architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) disciplines, with the aid of BIM tools.  This paper describes the “IMAC” framework that has been developed from this work to assist educators in benchmarking their own curricula and to develop strategies for improvement. Keywords: Building Information Modelling, BIM, construction education, collaborative working; Framework"Save to LibraryDownloadby Jennifer Macdonald•  9  Engineering Education, Bim, BIM Education, Building Information ModellingPatrimonio costruito e BIM: il palazzo di Francesco de' Medici nella Fortezza Vecchia di Livorno fa un secondo passo nell'epoca digitaleH-BIM models are becoming an effective support for the protection and conservation of historical heritage artefacts. The application of these new digital tools arisen several issues regarding the semantic parsing method, often due the... moreH-BIM models are becoming an effective support for the protection and conservation of historical heritage artefacts. The application of these new digital tools arisen several issues regarding the semantic parsing method, often due the topologic relation that exist between architectural and structural elements.Moreover, the growing adoption of survey systems, often based on the achievement of a point clouds, arisen problems of converting this data into simplified BIM model version. The object of this essay is to show preliminary result of a methodology that, starting from consideration that derives from structural analysis, will allow to define the architectural element for the HBIM model. The method was applied for the case study of the Palace of Francesco I de Medici at the “Fortezza Vecchia” in LivornoSave to LibraryDownloadby Giorgio  Verdiani and +3Vincenzo DonatoFrancesca  MarsugliLorenzo Pianigiani•  13  BIM (Architecture), Military Architecture, Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)Diagnostic and Assessment Benefits and Barriers of BIM in Construction Project ManagementThis paper aims to diagnostic and assessment the benefits and barriers of Building Information Modelling in the construction project management. Both open and closed questionnaire was used to explore the views of a number of Iraqi... moreThis paper aims to diagnostic and assessment the benefits and barriers of Building Information Modelling in the construction project management. Both open and closed questionnaire was used to explore the views of a number of Iraqi engineers; in order to investigate the level of BIM implementation in Iraq construction sector. Questionnaire indicated an acceptable awareness of (BIM) in Iraq, especially among the young generation of engineers which indicates the arrival of the evolutionary stream of BIM in the next few years. Moreover, questionnaire showed that the most important advantage of implementing BIM in the Iraqi construction sector was the ability to generate accurate 2D plans at any stage, while the least important advantage was the ability to provide a careful planning of the site facilities, with a relative importance of (82 %) and (33 %) respectively. Furthermore, the most important barrier to its implementation was the unspecified responsibilities for data content, as presented by questionnaire, while the least important barrier was the lack of programs efficiency in data exchange and internal collaboration, with a relative importance of (81 %) and (34 %) respectively.Save to LibraryDownloadby Faiq M . S . Al-Zwainy•  5  Construction Project Management, Questionnaire, Building Information Modelling, BarriersConstruction site layout optimization and 3D visualization through BIM tools ESCUELA TÉCNICA SUPERIORVisualización 3D y optimización a través de herramientas BIM aplicado a los planos de proyecto Site layout plan is required for the management of the construction site and operations. A well-developed site layout has positive impact on... moreVisualización 3D y optimización a través de herramientas BIM aplicado a los planos de proyecto Site layout plan is required for the management of the construction site and operations. A well-developed site layout has positive impact on workers, working environment, productivity and eventual success of a project. Moreover, the proposed construction methods for a project have the most significant impact on productivity, quality and cost of construction projects. This paper proposes a site layout model through BIM and construction methodology integration. An illustrative case study method was adopted for the study, where the assumptions and processes adopted in the site layout model were expounded and illustrative example was presented. The study substantiated the need to incorporate construction methods for projects in the BIM-based modelling of construction site layout plan; and the need to reinforce the possibility of rethinking the processes of planning, construction, and management of projects.Save to LibraryDownloadby oluseye olugboyega•  8  Visualization, Construction Management, Construction Project Management, Optimization techniquesNextLast »Related TopicsBIM FrameworkFollowFollowingBIM ProcurementFollowFollowingBuilding Information ModelingFollowFollowingConstruction InformaticsFollowFollowingIntegrated Project Delivery System (Architecture)FollowFollowingBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)FollowFollowingEnvironmental life-cycle assessment of buildingsFollowFollowingBIM-technologyFollowFollowingBIM and Construction PlanningFollowFollowingBIM (Architecture)FollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023