Luxembourgish - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
2Language family
3Speech
Toggle Speech subsection
3.1Varieties
3.2Surrounding languages
4Writing
Toggle Writing subsection
4.1Standardisation
4.2Alphabet
4.2.1Orthography of vowels
4.3Eifeler Regel
5Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
5.1Consonants
5.2Vowels
6Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
6.1Nominal syntax
6.2Adjectives
6.3Word order
7Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
7.1Selected common phrases
7.2Neologisms
8Academic projects
9Endangered status claims
10See also
11Notes and references
Toggle Notes and references subsection
11.1Notes
11.2References
11.3Bibliography
12Further reading
13External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Luxembourgish
121 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛअंगिकाالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCorsuCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGàidhligGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიKernowekKiswahiliКомиKriyòl gwiyannenKurdîLatgaļuLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingálaLombardMagyarМакедонскиमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayu閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄မြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsNedersaksies日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNovialOccitanОлык марийਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPapiamentuپښتوPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRipoarischRomânăРусиньскыйРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaqbaylitТатарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükWalon吴语ייִדיש粵語ZazakiZeêuws中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Luxembourgish language)
Germanic language spoken in Luxembourg
This article is about the language. For the people of Luxembourg, see Luxembourgers.
LuxembourgishLëtzebuergeschPronunciation[ˈlətsəbuəjəʃ] (listen)Native toLuxembourg; Saarland and north-west Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany; Arelerland and Saint-Vith district, Belgium; Moselle department, FranceRegionWestern EuropeEthnicityLuxembourgersNative speakers430,000 (2012)[1]Language familyIndo-European
GermanicWest GermanicHigh GermanWest Central GermanCentral FranconianMoselle FranconianLuxembourgishWriting system
Latin (Luxembourgish alphabet)
Luxembourgish Braille
Official statusOfficial language in LuxembourgRecognised minoritylanguage in Belgium (recognised by the French Community of Belgium)Regulated byCouncil for the Luxembourgish LanguageLanguage codesISO 639-1lbISO 639-2ltzISO 639-3ltzGlottologluxe1243Linguasphere52-ACB-dbThe area where Luxembourgish (pale indigo) and other dialects of Moselle Franconian (medium indigo) are spoken. The internal isogloss for words meaning "on, at", i.e. op and of, is also shown (Standard German: auf).This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
A Luxembourgish speaker, recorded in France.
Luxembourgish (/ˈlʌksəmbɜːrɡɪʃ/ LUK-səm-bur-gish; also Luxemburgish,[2] Luxembourgian,[3] Letzebu(e)rgesch;[4] Luxembourgish: Lëtzebuergesch [ˈlətsəbuəjəʃ] (listen)) is a West Germanic language that is spoken mainly in Luxembourg. About 400,000 people speak Luxembourgish worldwide.[5]
As a standard form of the Moselle Franconian language, Luxembourgish has similarities with other varieties of High German and the wider group of West Germanic languages. The status of Luxembourgish as the national language of Luxembourg and the existence there of a regulatory body[6] have removed Luxembourgish, at least in part, from the domain of Standard German, its traditional Dachsprache. It is also related to the Transylvanian Saxon dialect spoken by the Transylvanian Saxons in Transylvania, contemporary central Romania.
History[edit]
Luxembourgish was considered a German dialect like many others until about World War II but then it underwent ausbau, creating its own standard form in vocabulary, grammar, and spelling and therefore is seen today as an independent language.
As Luxembourgish has a maximum of some 285,000[7] native speakers, resources in the language like books, newspapers, magazines, television, internet etc. are limited. Since most Luxembourgers also speak Standard German and French, there is strong competition with these languages, which both have large language resources. Because of this, the use of Luxembourgish remains limited.
Language family[edit]
Luxembourgish belongs to the West Central German group of the High German languages and is the primary example of a Moselle Franconian language. Furthermore, it is closely related to Transylvanian Saxon which has been spoken since the High Middle Ages by the Transylvanian Saxons in Transylvania, present-day central Romania.[8][9][10]
Speech[edit]
Sign in Luxembourgish indicating the way to walk through a shop during the COVID-19 pandemic
Sign in French and Luxembourgish (in italic) in a supermarket. Items labeled in Standard German and  French are displayed.
Luxembourgish is considered the national language of Luxembourg and also one of the three administrative languages, alongside German and French.[11][12]
In Luxembourg, 77% of citizens can speak Luxembourgish.[13] Luxembourgish is also spoken in the Arelerland region of Belgium (part of the Province of Luxembourg) and in small parts of Lorraine in France.
In the German Eifel and Hunsrück regions, similar local Moselle Franconian dialects of German are spoken. The language is also spoken by a few descendants of Luxembourg immigrants in the United States and Canada.
Other Moselle Franconian dialects are spoken by ethnic Germans long settled in Transylvania, Romania (Siebenbürgen).
Moselle Franconian dialects outside the Luxembourg state border tend to have far fewer French loanwords, and these mostly remain from the French Revolution.
The political party that places the greatest importance on promoting, using and preserving Luxembourgish is the Alternative Democratic Reform Party (ADR) and its electoral success in the 1999 election pushed the CSV-DP government to make knowledge of it a criterion for naturalisation.[14][15] It is currently also the only political party in Luxembourg that wishes to implement written laws also in Luxembourgish and that wants Luxembourgish to be an officially recognized language of the European Union.[16][17] In this context, in 2005, politician Jean Asselborn of LSAP rejected a demand made by ADR to make Luxembourgish an official language of the European Union citing financial reasons and the suffiency of official German and French.[18]
Varieties[edit]
There are several distinct dialect forms of Luxembourgish including Areler (from Arlon), Eechternoacher (Echternach), Kliärrwer (Clervaux), Miseler (Moselle), Stater (Luxembourg), Veiner (Vianden), Minetter (Southern Luxembourg) and Weelzer (Wiltz). Further small vocabulary differences may be seen even between small villages.
Increasing mobility of the population and the dissemination of the language through mass media such as radio and television are leading to a gradual standardisation towards a "Standard Luxembourgish" through the process of koineization.[19]
Surrounding languages[edit]
There is no distinct geographic boundary between the use of Luxembourgish and the use of other closely related High German dialects (for example, Lorraine Franconian); it instead forms a dialect continuum of gradual change.
Spoken Luxembourgish is relatively hard to understand for speakers of German who are generally not familiar with Moselle Franconian dialects (or at least other West Central German dialects). They can usually read the language to some degree. For those Germans familiar with Moselle Franconian dialects, it is relatively easy to understand and speak Luxembourgish as far as the everyday vocabulary is concerned.[19] The large number of French loanwords in Luxembourgish may hamper communication about certain topics, or with certain speakers (who use many French loanwords).
Writing[edit]
Standardisation[edit]
A number of proposals for standardising the orthography of Luxembourgish can be documented, going back to the middle of the 19th century. There was no officially recognised system until the adoption of the "OLO" (ofizjel lezebuurjer ortografi) on 5 June 1946.[20] This orthography provided a system for speakers of all varieties of Luxembourgish to transcribe words the way they pronounced them, rather than imposing a single, standard spelling for the words of the language. The rules explicitly rejected certain elements of German orthography (e.g., the use of ⟨ä⟩ and ⟨ö⟩,[21] the capitalisation of nouns). Similarly, new principles were adopted for the spelling of French loanwords.
fiireje, rééjelen, shwèzt, veinejer (cf. German vorigen, Regeln, schwätzt, weniger)
bültê, âprê, Shaarel, ssistém (cf. French bulletin, emprunt, Charles, système)
This proposed orthography, so different from existing "foreign" standards that people were already familiar with, did not enjoy widespread approval.
A more successful standard eventually emerged from the work of the committee of specialists charged with the task of creating the Luxemburger Wörterbuch, published in 5 volumes between 1950 and 1977. The orthographic conventions adopted in this decades-long project, set out in Bruch (1955), provided the basis of the standard orthography that became official on 10 October 1975.[22] Modifications to this standard were proposed by the Permanent Council of the Luxembourguish language and adopted officially in the spelling reform of 30 July 1999.[23] A detailed explanation of current practice for Luxembourgish can be found in Schanen & Lulling (2003).
Alphabet[edit]
See also: Luxembourgish Braille
The Luxembourgish alphabet consists of the 26 Latin letters plus three letters with diacritics: ⟨é⟩, ⟨ä⟩, and ⟨ë⟩. In loanwords from French and Standard German, other diacritics are usually preserved:
French: Boîte, Enquête, Piqûre, etc.
German: blöd, Bühn (from German Bühne), etc.
In German loanwords, the digraphs ⟨eu⟩ and ⟨äu⟩ indicate the diphthong /oɪ/, which does not appear in native words.
Orthography of vowels[edit]
Monophthongs
Spelling
IPA
Example
a
ɑ
Kapp
aː
Kap
aa
naass
ä
æ
Käpp
e
Decken
ə
liesen
ë
hëllefen
é[a]
e
drécken
ee
eː
Been
i
i
Gitt
iː
siwen
ii
Kiischt
o
o
Sonn
oː
droleg
oo
Sprooch
u
u
Hutt
uː
Tut
uu
Luucht
Diphthongs
Spelling
IPA
Example
ai
ɑɪ̯
Gebai
ei
deier
äi
æːɪ̯
räich
au[b]
ɑʊ̯
Mauer
æːʊ̯
Maul
éi
əɪ̯
Schnéi
ie
iə
liesen
ier
Biergem
ou
əʊ̯
Schoul
ue
uə
Buedem
uer
Lëtzebuerg
r-vocalization
Spelling
IPA
Example
ar
aː
Dar
aar
aarm
är
ɛːɐ̯
Stär
äer
Päerd
er
ɐ
aner
ir
iːɐ̯
Stir
ier
Hiert
or
oːɐ̯
Gefor
oer
Joer
ur
uːɐ̯
Bur
uer
Wuerm
Eifeler Regel[edit]
Main article: Eifeler Regel
Like many other varieties of Western High German, Luxembourgish has a rule of final n-deletion in certain contexts. The effects of this rule (known as the "Eifel Rule") are indicated in writing, and therefore must be taken into account when spelling words and morphemes ending in ⟨n⟩ or ⟨nn⟩. For example:
wann ech ginn "when I go", but wa mer ginn "when we go"
fënnefandrësseg "thirty-five", but fënnefavéierzeg "forty-five".
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Luxembourgish phonology
Consonants[edit]
The consonant inventory of Luxembourgish is quite similar to that of Standard German.[24]
Consonant phonemes of Luxembourgish[24]
Labial
Alveolar
Postalveolar
Dorsal
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ŋ
Plosive
fortis
p
t
k
lenis
b
d
ɡ
Affricate
voiceless
(p͡f)
t͡s
t͡ʃ
voiced
(d͡z)
(d͡ʒ)
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
ʃ
χ
h
voiced
v
z
ʒ
ʁ
Trill
ʀ
Approximant
l
j
/p͡f/ occurs only in loanwords from Standard German.[25] Just as for many native speakers of Standard German, it tends to be simplified to [f] word-initially. For example, Pflicht ('obligation') is realised as [fliɕt] or, in careful speech, [p͡fliɕt].
/v/ is realised as [w] when it occurs after /k, t͡s, ʃ/, e.g. zwee [t͡sweː] ('two').[26]
/d͡z/ appears only in a few words, such as spadséieren /ʃpɑˈd͡zəɪ̯eʀen/ ('to go for a walk').[25]
/d͡ʒ/ occurs only in loanwords from English.[25]
/χ, ʁ/ have two types of allophones: alveolo-palatal [ɕ, ʑ] and uvular [χ, ʁ]. The latter occur before back vowels, and the former occur in all other positions.[27]
The [ʑ] allophone appears only in a few words, and speakers increasingly fail to distinguish between the alveolo-palatal allophones of /χ, ʁ/ and the postalveolar phonemes /ʃ, ʒ/.[28]
Younger speakers tend to vocalize a word-final /ʀ/ to [ɐ].[27]
Vowels[edit]
Monophthong phonemes[29]
Front
Back
unrounded
rounded
short
long
short
long
short
long
Close
i
iː
(y)
(yː)
u
uː
Close-mid
e
eː
(øː)
o
oː
Open-mid
(œ)
(œː)
Open
æ
aː
ɑ
The front rounded vowels /y, yː, øː, œ, œː/ appear only in loanwords from French and Standard German. In loanwords from French, nasal /õː, ɛ̃ː, ɑ̃ː/ also occur. [25]
/e/ has two allophones:
Before velars: close-mid front unrounded [e],[29][30] which, for some speakers, may be open-mid [ɛ], especially before /ʀ/. The same variation in height applies to /o/, which may be as open as [ɔ].[29]
All other positions: mid central vowel, more often slightly rounded [ə̹] than unrounded [ə̜].[29]
Phonetically, the long mid vowels /eː, oː/ are raised close-mid (near-close) [e̝ː, o̝ː] and may even overlap with /iː, uː/.[29]
/eː/ before /ʀ/ is realised as [ɛː].[29]
/aː/ is the long variant of /ɑ/, not /æ/, which does not have a long counterpart.
Diphthong phonemes[31]
Ending point
Front
Central
Back
Close
iə uə
Mid
əɪ (oɪ)
əʊ
Open
æːɪ ɑɪ
æːʊ ɑʊ
/oɪ/ appears only in loanwords from Standard German.[25]
The first elements of /æːɪ, æːʊ/ may be phonetically short [æ] in fast speech or in unstressed syllables.[31]
The /æːɪ–ɑɪ/ and /æːʊ–ɑʊ/ contrasts arose from the former lexical tone contrast; the shorter /ɑɪ, ɑʊ/ were used in words with Accent 1, and the lengthened /æːɪ, æːʊ/ were used in words with Accent 2.[32]
Grammar[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Nominal syntax[edit]
Luxembourgish has three genders (masculine, feminine, and neuter), and three cases (nominative, accusative, and dative). These are marked morphologically on determiners and pronouns. As in German, there is no morphological gender distinction in the plural.
The forms of the articles and of some selected determiners are given below:
nominative/accusative
singular
plural
masculine
neuter
feminine
definite
den
d'
def. emphatic
deen
dat
déi
demonstrative
dësen
dëst
dës
indefinite
en
eng
(eng)
negative
keen
keng
"his/its"
säin
seng
"her/their"
hiren
hiert
hir
dative
singular
plural
masculine
neuter
feminine
definite
dem
der
den
def. emphatic
deem
där
deenen
demonstrative
dësem
dëser
dësen
indefinite
engem
enger
(engen)
negative
kengem
kenger
kengen
"his/its"
sengem
senger
sengen
"her/their"
hirem
hirer
hiren
As seen above, Luxembourgish has plural forms of en ("a, an"), namely eng in the nominative/accusative and engen in the dative. They are not used as indefinite articles, which—as in German and English—do not exist in the plural, but they do occur in the compound pronouns wéi en ("what, which") and sou en ("such"). For example: wéi eng Saachen ("what things"); sou eng Saachen ("such things"). Moreover, they are used before numbers to express an estimation: eng 30.000 Spectateuren ("some 30,000 spectators").
Distinct nominative forms survive in a few nominal phrases such as der Däiwel ("the devil") and eiser Herrgott ("our Lord"). Rare examples of the genitive are also found: Enn des Mounts ("end of the month"), Ufanks der Woch ("at the beginning of the week"). The functions of the genitive are normally expressed using a combination of the dative and a possessive determiner: e.g. dem Mann säi Buch (lit. "to the man his book", i.e. "the man's book"). This is known as a periphrastic genitive, and is a phenomenon also commonly seen in dialectal and colloquial German, and in Dutch.
The forms of the personal pronouns are given in the following table (unstressed forms appear in parentheses):
nominative
accusative
dative
1sg
ech
mech
mir (mer)
2sg
du (de)
dech
dir (der)
3sgm
hien (en)
him (em)
3sgn
hatt (et)
3sgf
si (se)
hir (er)
1pl
mir (mer)
äis / eis
2pl
dir (der)
iech
3pl
si (se)
hinnen (en)
The 2pl form is also used as a polite singular (like French vous, see T-V distinction); the forms are capitalised in writing:
Wéi hues du de Concert fonnt? ("How did you [informal sg.] like the concert?")
Wéi hutt dir de Concert fonnt? ("How did you [informal pl.] like the concert?")
Wéi hutt Dir de Concert fonnt?  ("How did you [formal sg. or pl.] like the concert?")
Like most varieties of colloquial German, but even more invariably, Luxembourgish uses definite articles with personal names. They are obligatory and not to be translated:
De Serge ass an der Kichen. ("Serge is in the kitchen.")
A feature Luxembourgish shares with only some western dialects of German is that women and girls are most often referred to with forms of the neuter pronoun hatt:
Dat ass d'Nathalie. Hatt ass midd, well et vill a sengem Gaart geschafft huet. ("That's Nathalie. She is tired because she has worked a lot in her garden.")
Adjectives[edit]
Luxembourgish morphology distinguishes two types of adjective: attributive and predicative. Predicative adjectives appear with verbs like sinn ("to be"), and receive no extra ending:
De Mann ass grouss. (masculine, "The man is tall.")
D'Fra ass grouss. (feminine, "The woman is tall.")
D'Meedchen ass grouss. (neuter, "The girl is tall.")
D'Kanner si grouss. (plural, "The children are tall.")
Attributive adjectives are placed before the noun they describe, and change their ending according to the grammatical gender, number, and case:
de grousse Mann (masculine)
déi grouss Fra (feminine)
dat grousst Meedchen (neuter)
déi grouss Kanner (plural)
The definite article changes with the use of an attributive adjective: feminine d' goes to déi (or di), neuter d' goes to dat, and plural d' changes to déi.
The comparative in Luxembourgish is formed analytically, i.e. the adjective itself is not altered (compare the use of -er in German and English; tall → taller, klein → kleiner). Instead it is formed using the adverb méi: e.g. schéin → méi schéin
Lëtzebuerg ass méi schéi wéi Esch. ("Luxembourg is prettier than Esch.")
The superlative involves a synthetic form consisting of the adjective and the suffix -st: e.g. schéin → schéinst  (compare German schönst, English prettiest). Attributive modification requires the emphatic definite article and the inflected superlative adjective:
dee schéinste Mann ("the most handsome man")
déi schéinst Fra ("the prettiest woman")
Predicative modification uses either the same adjectival structure or the adverbial structure am+ -sten: e.g. schéin → am schéinsten:
Lëtzebuerg ass dee schéinsten / deen allerschéinsten / am schéinsten. ("Luxembourg is the most beautiful (of all).")
Some common adjectives have exceptional comparative and superlative forms:
gutt, besser, am beschten ("good, better, best")
vill, méi, am meeschten ("much, more, most")
wéineg, manner, am mannsten ("few, fewer, fewest")
Several other adjectives also have comparative forms, not commonly used as normal comparatives, but in special senses:
al ("old") → eeler Leit ("elderly people"), but: méi al Leit ("older people, people older than X")
fréi ("early") → de fréiere President ("the former president"), but: e méi fréien Termin ("an earlier appointment")
laang ("long") → viru längerer Zäit ("some time ago"), but: eng méi laang Zäit ("a longer period of time")
Word order[edit]
Luxembourgish exhibits "verb second" word order in clauses. More specifically, Luxembourgish is a V2-SOV language, like German and Dutch. In other words, we find the following finite clausal structures:
the finite verb in second position in declarative clauses and wh-questions
Ech kafen en Hutt. Muer kafen ech en Hutt. (lit. "I buy a hat. Tomorrow buy I a hat.)
Wat kafen ech haut? (lit. "What buy I today?")
the finite verb in first position in yes/no questions and finite imperatives
Bass de midd? ("Are you tired?")
Gëff mer deng Hand! ("Give me your hand!")
the finite verb in final position in subordinate clauses
Du weess, datt ech midd sinn. (lit. "You know, that I tired am.")
Non-finite verbs (infinitives and participles) generally appear in final position:
compound past tenses
Ech hunn en Hutt kaf. (lit. "I have a hat bought.")
infinitival complements
Du solls net esou vill Kaffi drénken. (lit. "You should not so much coffee drink.")
infinitival clauses (e.g., used as imperatives)
Nëmme Lëtzebuergesch schwätzen! (lit. "Only Luxembourgish speak!")
These rules interact so that in subordinate clauses, the finite verb and any non-finite verbs must all cluster at the end. Luxembourgish allows different word orders in these cases:
Hie freet, ob ech komme kann. (cf. German Er fragt, ob ich kommen kann.) (lit. "He asks if I come can.")
Hie freet, ob ech ka kommen. (cf. Dutch Hij vraagt of ik kan komen.) (lit. "He asks if I can come.")
This is also the case when two non-finite verb forms occur together:
Ech hunn net kënne kommen. (cf. Dutch Ik heb niet kunnen komen.) (lit, "I have not be-able to-come")
Ech hunn net komme kënnen. (cf. German Ich habe nicht kommen können.) (lit, "I have not to-come be-able")
Luxembourgish (like Dutch and German) allows prepositional phrases to appear after the verb cluster in subordinate clauses:
alles, wat Der ëmmer wollt wëssen iwwer Lëtzebuerg
(lit. "everything what you always wanted know about Luxembourg")
Vocabulary[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Luxembourgish has borrowed many French words. For example, the word for a bus driver is Buschauffeur (as in Dutch and Swiss German), which would be Busfahrer in German and chauffeur de bus in French.
Some words are different from Standard German, but have equivalents in German dialects. An example is Gromperen (potatoes – German: Kartoffeln). Other words are exclusive to Luxembourgish.
Selected common phrases[edit]
"Moien" ("Hello"): Sculpture (approx. 2 meters high) in the Justus-Lipsius building during the Luxembourgish EU-Presidency, first half of 2005
Listen to the words below. (help·info)
Note: Words spoken in sound clip do not reflect all words on this list.
Dutch
Luxembourgish
Standard German
English
Ja.
Jo.
Ja.
Yes.
Nee(n).
Nee(n).
Nein.
No.
Misschien, wellicht
Vläicht.
Vielleicht.
Maybe.
Hallo. (also moi in the north and east)
Moien.
Hallo. (also Moin in the north)
Hello.
Goedemorgen.
Gudde Moien.
Guten Morgen.
Good morning.
Goedendag. or Goedemiddag.
Gudde Mëtteg.
Guten Tag.
Good afternoon.
Goedenavond.
Gudden Owend.
Guten Abend.
Good evening.
Tot ziens.
Äddi.
Auf Wiedersehen.
Goodbye.
Dank u or Merci. (Belgium)
Merci.
Danke.
Thank you.
Waarom? or Waarvoor?
Firwat?
Warum? or Wofür?
Why, What for
Ik weet het niet.
Ech weess net.
Ich weiß nicht.
I don't know.
Ik versta het niet.
Ech verstinn net.
Ich verstehe nicht.
I don't understand.
Excuseer mij or Wablief? (Belgium)
Watgelift? or Entschëllegt?
Entschuldigung?
Excuse me?
Slagerszoon.
Metzleschjong.
Metzgersohn. / Metzgerjunge.
Butcher's son.
Spreek je Duits/Frans/Engels?
Schwätzt dir Däitsch/Franséisch/Englesch?
Sprichst du Deutsch/Französisch/Englisch?
Do you speak German/French/English?
Hoe heet je?
Wéi heeschs du?
Wie heißt du?
What is your name?
Hoe gaat het?
Wéi geet et?
Wie geht's?
How are you?, How is it going?
Politiek Fatsoen.
Politeschen Anstand.
Politischer Anstand.
Political decency
Zo.
Sou.
So.
So.
Vrij.
Fräi.
Frei.
Free.
Thuis.
Heem.
zu Hause. / Heim.
Home.
Ik.
Ech.
Ich.
I.
En.
An.
Und.
And.
Mijn.
Mäin.
Mein.
My.
Ezel.
Iesel.
Esel.
donkey, ass.
Met.
Mat.
Mit.
With.
Kind.
Kand.
Kind.
Child, kid
Weg.
Wee.
Weg.
Way.
Aardappel.
Gromper.
Kartoffel/Erdapfel.
Potato.
Brood.
Brout.
Brot.
Bread.
Neologisms[edit]
Neologisms in Luxembourgish include both entirely new words, and the attachment of new meanings to old words in everyday speech. The most recent neologisms come from the English language in the fields of telecommunications, computer science, and the Internet.
Recent neologisms in Luxembourgish include:[33]
direct loans from English: Browser, Spam, CD, Fitness, Come-back, Terminal, Hip, Cool, Tip-top
also found in German: Sichmaschinn (search engine, German: Suchmaschine), schwaarzt Lach (black hole, German: Schwarzes Loch), Handy (mobile phone), Websäit (webpage, German: Webseite)
native Luxembourgish
déck as an emphatic like ganz and voll, e.g. Dëse Kuch ass déck gutt! ("This cake is really good!")
recent expressions, used mainly by teenagers: oh mëllen! ("oh crazy"), en décke gelénkt ("you've been tricked") or cassé (French for "(you've been) owned")
Academic projects[edit]
Between 2000 and 2002, Luxembourgish linguist Jérôme Lulling compiled a lexical database of 125,000-word forms as the basis for the first Luxembourgish spellchecker (Projet C.ORT.IN.A).[34]
The LaF (Lëtzebuergesch als Friemsprooch – Luxembourgish as a Foreign Language) is a set of four language proficiency certifications for Luxembourgish and follows the ALTE framework of language examination standards. The tests are administered by the Institut National des Langues Luxembourg.[35]
The "Centre for Luxembourg Studies" at the University of Sheffield was founded in 1995 on the initiative of Professor Gerald Newton. It is supported by the government of Luxembourg which funds an endowed chair in Luxembourg Studies at the university.[36]
The first class of students to study the language outside of the country as undergraduate students began their studies at the 'Centre for Luxembourg Studies' at Sheffield in the academic year 2011–2012.
Endangered status claims[edit]
UNESCO declared Luxembourgish to be an endangered language in 2019, adding it to its Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger.[37][38]
Additionally, some local media have argued that the Luxembourgish language is at risk of disappearing, and that it should be considered an endangered language.[39] Even though the government claims that more people than ever are able to speak Luxembourgish, these are absolute numbers and often include the many naturalized citizens who have passed the Sproochentest, a language test that certifies the knowledge of merely A.2. in speaking and B.1. in understanding.[40]
Luxembourgish language expert and historian Alain Atten argues that not only the absolute number of Luxembourgish speakers should be considered when defining the status of a language, but also the proportion of speakers in a country. Noting that the proportion of native Luxembourgish speakers has decreased in recent decades, Atten believes that Luxembourgish will inevitably disappear, stating:
"It is simple math, if there are about 70% foreigners and about 30% Luxembourgers (which is the case in Luxembourg City), then it cannot possibly be said that Luxembourgish is thriving. That would be very improbable."[41]
Alain Atten also argues that the situation is even more dramatic, since the cited percentages take only the residents of Luxembourg into account, excluding the 200,000 cross-border-workers present in the country on a daily basis.[41] This group plays a major role in the daily use of languages in Luxembourg, thus further lowering the percentage of Luxembourgish speakers present in the country.
The following numbers are based on statistics by STATEC (those since 2011) and show that the percentage of the population that is able to speak Luxembourgish has been constantly diminishing for years (Note that the 200,000 cross-border workers are not included in this statistic):[41]
Year
Percentage
1846
99.0%
1900
88.0%
1983
80.6%
2011
70.51%
2012
70.07%
2013
69.65%
2014
69.17%
2015
68.78%
2016
68.35%
2017
67.77%
It has also been argued that two very similar languages, Alsatian and Lorraine Franconian, which were very broadly spoken by the local populations at the beginning of the 20th century in Alsace and in Lorraine respectively, have been nearly completely supplanted by French, and that a similar fate could also be possible for Luxembourgish.[42][43] Another example of the replacement of Luxembourgish by French occurred in Arelerland (historically a part of Luxembourg, today in Belgium), where the vast majority of the local population spoke Luxembourgish as a native language well into the 20th century. Today, Luxembourgish is nearly extinct in this region, having been replaced by French.
According to some Luxembourgish news media and members of Actioun Lëtzebuergesch (an association for the preservation and promotion of the language), the biggest threat to the existence of Luxembourgish is indeed French, since it is the language of most official documents and street signs in Luxembourg; this considerably weakens the possibility for Luxembourgish to be practiced by new speakers and learners.[44] In most cases, this passively forces expats to learn French instead of Luxembourgish.[44]
In 2021 it was announced that public announcements in Luxembourgish (and in German as well) at Luxembourg Airport would cease; it would only be using French and English for future public announcements.[45] This will cause Luxembourgish to go unused at Luxembourg Airport after many decades. Actioun Lëtzebuergesch declared itself to be hugely upset by this new governmental measure, citing that other airports in the world seem to have no problems making public announcements in multiple languages.[46] According to a poll conducted by AL, 92.84% of the Luxembourgish population wished to have public announcements to be made in Luxembourgish at Luxembourg Airport.[46]
Further fears of Luxembourgish's replacement by French were fueled in 2021, when ASTI (Association de Soutien aux Travailleurs Immigrés) wished to see Luxembourgish removed as the national language of Luxembourg (as written in the constitution). ASTI claimed that the national language of Luxembourg should by law be defined as the one that is most used in the local population, hinting that French would be the better choice.[47]
According to ADR politician Fred Keup, Luxembourgish is already on its way to complete replacement by French.[48]
See also[edit]
Luxembourg portalLanguages portal
Erna Hennicot-Schoepges
Literature of Luxembourg
Luxembourgish Swadesh List
Multilingualism in Luxembourg
Notes and references[edit]
Notes[edit]
^ The letter ⟨é⟩ today represents the same sound as ⟨ë⟩ before ⟨ch⟩. The ostensibly inconsistent spelling ⟨é⟩ is based on the traditional, now widely obsolete pronunciation of the sound represented by ⟨ch⟩ as a palatal [ç]. As this consonant is pronounced further back in the mouth, it triggered the use of the front allophone of /e/ (that is [e]) as is the case before the velars (/k, ŋ/). Since the more forward alveolo-palatal [ɕ] has replaced the palatal [ç] for almost all speakers, the allophone [ə] is used as before any non-velar consonant. So the word mécht ('[he] makes'), which is now pronounced [məɕt], used to be pronounced [meçt]; this is the reason for the spelling. The spelling ⟨mëcht⟩, which reflects the contemporary pronunciation, is not standard.
^ In the standard orthography, /ɑʊ̯/ and /æːʊ̯/ are not distinguished.
References[edit]
^ Luxembourgish at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ "Luxemburgish – definition of Luxemburgish in English from the Oxford dictionary". Archived from the original on 7 July 2012. Retrieved 21 March 2015.
^ 
Kas Deprez (1997). Michael G. Clyne (ed.). "Diets, Nederlands, Nederduits, Hollands, Vlaams, Belgisch-Nederlands". Undoing and Redoing Corpus Planning. Walter de Gruyter: 249. ISBN 9783110155099.
Bengt Skoog (1983). Immigrants and Cultural Development in European Towns. Council for Cultural Co-operation. p. 51. ISBN 9789287102393.
National Geographic Society (2005). Our Country's Regions: Outline maps. Macmillan/McGraw-Hill. p. 59. ISBN 9780021496259.
^ "Letzeburgesch – definition of Lëtzeburgesch in English from the Oxford dictionary". Archived from the original on 15 September 2012. Retrieved 21 March 2015.
^ "Le nombre de locuteurs du luxembourgeois revu à la hausse" (PDF). Retrieved 8 November 2012.
^ "Law establishing the Conseil Permanent de la Langue Luxembourgeoise (CPLL)" (PDF).
^ Fehlen, Fernand. "Luxemburgs Sprachenmarkt im Wandel" (PDF). uni.lu.
^ Vu(m) Nathalie Lodhi (13 January 2020). "The Transylvanian Saxon dialect, a not-so-distant cousin of Luxembourgish". RTL. Retrieved 18 September 2022.
^ Stephen McGrath (10 September 2019). "The Saxons first arrived in Romania's Transylvania region in the 12th Century, but over the past few decades the community has all but vanished from the region". BBC Travel. Retrieved 18 September 2022.
^ Victor Rouă (19 August 2015). "A Brief History Of The Transylvanian Saxon Dialect". The Dockyards. Retrieved 16 January 2023.
^ "Mémorial A no. 16 (27 February 1984), pp. 196–7: "Loi du 24 février 1984 sur le régime des langues"". Archived from the original on 3 February 2006. Retrieved 15 September 2006.
^ Hausemer, Georges. Luxemburger Lexikon - Das Großherzogtum von A-Z.
^ "What languages do people speak in Luxembourg?". luxembourg.public.lu. Retrieved 28 September 2021.
^ Moyse, François; Brasseur, Pierre; Scuto, Denis (2004). "Luxembourg". In Bauböck, Rainer; Ersbøll, Eva; Groenendijk, Kees; Waldrauch, Harald (eds.). Acquisition and Loss of Nationality: Policies and Trends in 15 European States – Volume 2: Country Analysis. Amsterdam: Amsterdam University Press. p. 380. ISBN 978-90-5356-921-4.
^ "VIDEO: ADR-Kongress: Déi 3 Haaptpilieren: Wuesstem, Lëtzebuerger Sprooch a Famill".
^ "Lëtzebuerger Sprooch stäerken: ADR: Wichteg Gesetzer och op Lëtzebuergesch".
^ "26. Lëtzebuergesch, DÉI Sprooch fir eist Land!". Archived from the original on 23 October 2021. Retrieved 13 October 2021.
^ "De l'usage de la langue luxembourgeoise dans le contexte européen : Une question parlementaire de Fernand Kartheiser - Europaforum Luxembourg - Septembre 2010".
^ a b Ammon, Ulrich - Die Stellung der deutschen Sprache in der Welt (de Gruyter Mouton); ISBN 978-3-11-019298-8
^ "Mémorial A no. 40 (7 September 1946), pp. 637–41: "Arrêté ministériel du 5 juin 1946 portant fixation d'un système officiel d'orthographe luxembourgeois"". Archived from the original on 26 April 2005. Retrieved 15 September 2006.
^ "Et get kèèn ä geshriven. [...] Et get kèèn ö geshriven." (p. 639)
^ Mémorial B no. 68 (16 November 1976), pp. 1365–90: "Arrêté ministériel du 10 octobre 1975 portant réforme du système officiel d'orthographe luxembourgeoise".
^ "Mémorial A no. 112 (11 August 1999), pp. 2040–8: "Règlement grand-ducal du 30 juillet 1999 portant réforme du système officiel d'orthographe luxembourgeoise"". Archived from the original on 3 November 2005. Retrieved 15 September 2006.
^ a b Gilles & Trouvain (2013), p. 67.
^ a b c d e Gilles & Trouvain (2013), p. 72.
^ Gilles & Trouvain (2013), p. 69.
^ a b Gilles & Trouvain (2013), p. 68.
^ Gilles & Trouvain (2013), pp. 68–69.
^ a b c d e f Gilles & Trouvain (2013), p. 70.
^ Trouvain & Gilles (2009), p. 75. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFTrouvainGilles2009 (help)
^ a b Gilles & Trouvain (2013), p. 71.
^ Trouvain & Gilles (2009), p. 72. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFTrouvainGilles2009 (help)
^ Lulling, Jérôme. (2002) La créativité lexicale en luxembourgeois, Doctoral thesis, Université Paul Valéry Montpellier III
^ "Eurogermanistik - Band 20". 27 September 2007. Archived from the original on 27 September 2007. Retrieved 26 July 2021.
^ "Institut national des langues – INL – Passer un examen à l'INL". Archived from the original on 8 May 2015.
^ "Centre for Luxembourg Studies". Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ ""Endangered" but growing: The Luxemburgish language celebrates 35th anniversary".
^ "Is Luxembourgish an endangered language?". 11 December 2017.
^ "Lëtzebuergesch gëtt ëmmer méi aus dem Alldag verdrängt". MOIEN.LU (in Luxembourgish). 25 February 2021. Archived from the original on 16 October 2021. Retrieved 12 October 2021.
^ "Examen d'évaluation de la langue luxembourgeoise " Sproochentest " | Institut National des Langues" (in French). Retrieved 12 October 2021.
^ a b c "Lëtzebuergesch gëtt ëmmer méi aus dem Alldag verdrängt". MOIEN.LU (in Luxembourgish). 25 February 2021. Archived from the original on 16 October 2021. Retrieved 12 October 2021.
^ Babbel.com; GmbH, Lesson Nine. "Welche Sprachen werden in Elsass-Lothringen gesprochen?". Das Babbel Magazin (in German). Retrieved 12 October 2021.
^ "D'Lëtzebuergescht, bald eng langue morte?!". Guy Kaiser Online. 12 August 2020. Retrieved 16 October 2021.
^ a b "D'Lëtzebuergescht, bald eng langue morte?!". Guy Kaiser Online. 12 August 2020. Retrieved 16 October 2021.
^ "Findel airport: Public announcements no longer available in Luxembourgish". today.rtl.lu. Retrieved 13 October 2021.
^ a b "D'Sprooche vun den automateschen Ukënnegungen um Flughafe Findel" (PDF). www.actioun-letzebuergesch.lu (in Luxembourgish). 7 September 2021. Retrieved 15 January 2022.
^ "Pressekonferenz vun der Asti: "Verfassung sollt e Spigel vun der Gesellschaft sinn"". www.rtl.lu (in Luxembourgish). Retrieved 12 October 2021.
^ "Invité vun der Redaktioun (30. Mee) - Fred Keup: "D'ADR ass wichteg fir de politeschen Debat"".
Bibliography[edit]
Bruch, Robert. (1955) Précis de grammaire luxembourgeoise. Bulletin Linguistique et Ethnologique de l'Institut Grand-Ducal, Luxembourg, Linden. (2nd edition of 1968)
Gilles, Peter; Trouvain, Jürgen (2013), "Luxembourgish" (PDF), Journal of the International Phonetic Association, 43 (1): 67–74, doi:10.1017/S0025100312000278
Schanen, François and Lulling, Jérôme. (2003) Introduction à l'orthographe luxembourgeoise. (text available in French and Luxembourgish)
Further reading[edit]
In English
NEWTON, Gerald (ed.), Luxembourg and Lëtzebuergesch: Language and Communication at the Crossroads of Europe, Oxford, 1996, ISBN 0-19-824016-3
Tamura, Kenichi (2011), "The Wiltz Dialect in a Luxembourgish Drama for Children: Analysis of the Script for "Den Zauberer vun Oz" (2005)" (PDF), Bulletin of Aichi University of Education, 60: 11–21, archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016
In French
BRAUN, Josy, et al. (en coll. avec Projet Moien), Grammaire de la langue luxembourgeoise. Luxembourg, Ministère de l'Éducation nationale et de la Formation professionnelle 2005. ISBN 2-495-00025-8
SCHANEN, François, Parlons Luxembourgeois, Langue et culture linguistique d'un petit pays au coeur de l'Europe. Paris, L'Harmattan 2004, ISBN 2-7475-6289-1
SCHANEN, François / ZIMMER, Jacqui, 1,2,3 Lëtzebuergesch Grammaire. Band 1: Le groupe verbal. Band 2: Le groupe nominal. Band 3:L'orthographe. Esch-sur-Alzette, éditions Schortgen, 2005 et 2006
SCHANEN, François / ZIMMER, Jacqui, Lëtzebuergesch Grammaire luxembourgeoise. En un volume. Esch-sur-Alzette, éditions Schortgen, 2012. ISBN 978-2-87953-146-5
In Luxembourgish
SCHANEN, François, Lëtzebuergesch Sproocherubriken. Esch-sur-Alzette, éditions Schortgen, 2013.ISBN 978-2-87953-174-8
Meyer, Antoine, E' Schrek ob de' lezeburger Parnassus, Lezeburg (Luxembourg), Lamort, 1829
In German
BRUCH, Robert, Grundlegung einer Geschichte des Luxemburgischen, Luxembourg, Publications scientifiques et littéraires du Ministère de l'Éducation nationale, 1953, vol. I; Das Luxemburgische im westfränkischen Kreis, Luxembourg, Publications scientifiques et littéraires du Ministère de l'Éducation nationale, 1954, vol. II
MOULIN, Claudine and Nübling, Damaris (publisher): Perspektiven einer linguistischen Luxemburgistik. Studien zu Diachronie und Synchronie., Universitätsverlag Winter, Heidelberg, 2006. This book has been published with the support of the Fonds National de la Recherche
GILLES, Peter (1998). "Die Emanzipation des Lëtzebuergeschen aus dem Gefüge der deutschen Mundarten". Zeitschrift für deutsche Philologie. 117: 20–35.
BERG, Guy, Mir wëlle bleiwe wat mir sin: Soziolinguistische und sprachtypologische Betrachtungen zur luxemburgischen Mehrsprachigkeit., Tübingen, 1993 (Reihe Germanistische Linguistik 140). ISBN 3-484-31140-1
(phrasebook) REMUS, Joscha, Lëtzebuergesch Wort für Wort. Kauderwelsch Band 104. Bielefeld, Reise Know-How Verlag 1997. ISBN 3-89416-310-0
WELSCHBILLIG Myriam, SCHANEN François, Jérôme Lulling, Luxdico Deutsch: Luxemburgisch ↔ Deutsches Wörterbuch, Luxemburg (Éditions Schortgen) 2008, Luxdico Deutsch
External links[edit]
 Luxembourgish  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Luxembourgish language.
Conseil Permanent de la Langue Luxembourgeoise
LuxVocabulary: Web application for learning Luxembourgish vocabulary
Spellcheckers and dictionaries
Spellcheckers for Luxembourgish: Spellchecker.lu, Spellchecker.lu - Richteg Lëtzebuergesch schreiwen
Luxdico online dictionary (24.000 words)
Lëtzebuerger Online Dictionnaire (Luxembourgish Online Dictionary) with German, French and Portuguese translations created by the CPLL
dico.lu – Dictionnaire Luxembourgeois//Français
Luxembourgish Dictionary with pronunciation, translation to and from English, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish, Italian
Luxogramm – Information system for the Luxembourgish grammar (University of Luxembourg, LU)
vteLuxembourg articlesHistory
Celtic Luxembourg
House of Luxembourg
Spanish Netherlands
Forêts
First Treaty of London
Luxembourg Crisis
Second Treaty of London
First World War
Second World War
Occupation
Holocaust
Partitions
Military occupations
Orders, decorations, and medals of Luxembourg
Jewish history
Geography
Administrative divisions
Districts
Cantons
Communes
Towns
Luxembourg City
quarters
Extreme points
Gutland
Little Switzerland
Luxembourg plateau
Moselle Valley
Red Lands
Valley of the Seven Castles
Oesling
Rivers
Politics
Chamber of Deputies
Current members
Council of State
Consultative Assembly
Diplomatic missions
Elections
Foreign relations
Monarchy
LGBT rights
Military
Police
Political parties
Prime Minister
Economy
Accountancy
ArcelorMittal
Belgium–Luxembourg Economic Union
Benelux
Electricity sector
Euro coins
RTL Group
Stock Exchange
Telecommunications
Transport
Society
Demographics
Education
Languages
People
Religion
Social class
Social welfare
Culture
Art
Cinema
Cuisine
Music
National symbols
Newspapers
Radio Luxembourg
RTL Télé Lëtzebuerg
Sport
World Heritage Sites
Outline
Category
Portal
vteLanguages and dialects of Benelux
Dutch
Brabantian
East Flemish
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
Zeelandic
Stadsfries
English
French language
Belgian French
Champenois
Lorrain
Picard
Walloon
High German
Standard High German
Luxembourgish
Ripuarian
Limburgish
Low German
Northern Low Saxon
Gronings
Westphalian
Achterhoeks
Drèents
Sallands
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Urkers
Veluws
Papiamento
West Frisian
Sign languages
Deutsche Gebärdensprache, DGS
Langue des signes Francophone de Belgique, LSFB
Nederlandse Gebarentaal, NGT
Vlaamse Gebarentaal, VGT
Languages of Belgium
Languages of the Netherlands
Languages of Luxembourg
vteGermanic languagesAccording to contemporary philologyWestAnglo-FrisianAnglic
English
dialects
Old English
Middle English
Modern English
Early Modern English
Irish Anglo-Norman
Fingallian
Yola
Scots
Early Scots
Middle Scots
FrisianHistorical forms
Old Frisian
Middle Frisian
East Frisian
Ems
Saterland Frisian
Weser
Wangerooge Frisian
Wursten Frisian
North Frisian
Insular
Eiderstedt
Föhr–Amrum
Föhr
Amrum
Heligolandic
Sylt
Mainland
Bökingharde
Mooring
Halligen
Goesharde
Northern
Central
Southern
Karrharde
Strand
Wiedingharde
West Frisian
Hindeloopen
Schiermonnikoog
Westlauwers–Terschellings
Mainland West Frisian
Clay Frisian
Wood Frisian
Westereendersk
Terschelling
Low GermanHistorical forms
Old Saxon
Middle Low German
West Low German
Dutch Low Saxon
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Gronings
Drèents
Gelders-Overijssels
Achterhooks
Sallaans
Urkers
Veluws
Northern Low Saxon
East Frisian Low Saxon
Eastphalian
Westphalian
East Low German
Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch
Brandenburgisch
Central Pomeranian
East Pomeranian
Low Prussian
Plautdietsch / Mennonite Low German
Low FranconianHistorical forms
Frankish
Old Dutch
Middle Dutch
Standard variants
Dutch
Afrikaans (Kaaps)
West Low Franconian
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
French Flemish
Zeelandic
East Flemish
Brabantian
Surinamese Dutch
Jersey Dutch
Mohawk Dutch
Stadsfries/Bildts/Amelands/Midslands
East Low Franconian
Meuse-Rhenish
Limburgish
Southeast Limburgish
High GermanHistorical forms
Old High German
Middle High German
New High German
Early New High German
Standard German
German Standard German
Austrian Standard German
Swiss Standard German
Non-standard variants and creoles
Namibian German
Namibian Black German
Berlinerisch
Unserdeutsch
Barossa German
Rotwelsch
Lotegorisch
Yenish
Yiddish
Eastern
Western
Scots Yiddish
Klezmer-loshn
Lachoudisch
Central GermanWest Central German
Central Franconian
Ripuarian
Colognian
Moselle Franconian
Luxembourgish
Transylvanian Saxon
Hunsrückisch
Hunsrik
Rhine Franconian
Lorraine Franconian
Palatine
Volga German
Pennsylvania Dutch
Hessian
Central Hessian
Amana German
East Central German
Thuringian
Upper Saxon
Erzgebirgisch
Lusatian
Silesian German
High Prussian
Wymysorys
Halcnovian
Upper German
Alemannic in the broad sense
Low Alemannic
Alsatian
Coloniero
High Alemannic
Swiss German
Highest Alemannic
Walser German
Swabian
Bavarian
Northern Bavarian
Central Bavarian
Viennese German
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Hutterite German
South Franconian
East Franconian
Vogtlandian
Langobardic
North and EastNorthHistorical forms
Proto-Norse
Old Norse
Old West Norse
Old East Norse
Old Gutnish
West
Norwegian
Bergensk
Kebabnorsk
Sognamål
Trøndersk
Valdris
Vestlandsk
Vikværsk
Bokmål (written)
Nynorsk (written)
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Faroese
Icelandic
Old Icelandic
Middle Icelandic
Greenlandic Norse
Norn
East
Swedish
Swedish dialects
Danish
Danish dialects
Insular Danish
Jutlandic
South Jutlandic
East Danish
Bornholmsk
Scanian
Southern Schleswig Danish
Gøtudanskt
Perkerdansk
Old Danish
Middle Danish
Dalecarlian
Elfdalian
Gutnish
Mainland Gutnish
Fårö Gutnish
East
Gothic (Crimean Gothic)
Burgundian
Vandalic
PhilologyLanguage subgroups
North
East
West
Elbe (Irminonic)
Weser-Rhine (Istvaeonic)
North Sea (Ingvaeonic)
Northwest
Gotho-Nordic
South
Reconstructed
Proto-Germanic
Proto-Germanic grammar
Germanic parent language
Ancient Belgian language
Diachronic features
Grimm's law
Verner's law
Holtzmann's law
Sievers's law
Kluge's law
Germanic substrate hypothesis
West Germanic gemination
High German consonant shift
Germanic a-mutation
Germanic umlaut
Germanic spirant law
Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law
Great Vowel Shift
Synchronic features
Germanic verb
Germanic strong verb
Germanic weak verb
Preterite-present verb
Grammatischer Wechsel
Indo-European ablaut
Italics indicate extinct languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control: National 
Spain
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Luxembourgish&oldid=1171135363"
Categories: Luxembourgish languageGermanic languagesCentral German languagesGerman dialectsLanguages of BelgiumLanguages of FranceLanguages of LuxembourgNational symbols of LuxembourgVerb-second languagesWalloon cultureLiège ProvinceLuxembourg (Belgium)ArlonSt. VithHidden categories: Articles containing Luxembourgish-language textLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 25Harv and Sfn no-target errorsCS1 Luxembourgish-language sources (lb)CS1 French-language sources (fr)CS1 German-language sources (de)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from October 2020Articles with hAudio microformatsArticles containing German-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing French-language textArticles needing additional references from July 2023All articles needing additional referencesCommons category link from WikidataArticles with BNE identifiersArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 19 August 2023, at 07:00 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width