Third gender - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Sex and gender
Toggle Sex and gender subsection
1.1Transgender people and third gender
1.2Third gender and sexual orientation
1.3Third gender and feminism
2Legal recognition
3Modern societies without legal recognition
Toggle Modern societies without legal recognition subsection
3.1Africa
3.2Asia-Pacific
3.3Europe
3.4Latin America and the Caribbean
3.5Middle East
3.6North American indigenous cultures
4History
Toggle History subsection
4.1Arabia
4.2Egypt
4.3Indic culture
4.4Israel
4.5Mediterranean culture
4.6Mesopotamia
4.7The Americas
4.7.1Mesoamerica
4.7.2Inca
4.7.3Indigenous North Americans
4.7.4Inuit
5Art, literature, and media
6Spirituality
7Criticism
8See also
9References
10Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Third gender
40 languages
العربيةঅসমীয়াবাংলাБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàCymraegDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalegoગુજરાતી한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSvenskaதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng ViệtZazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 31 August 2023.
Gender identity categorized as neither man nor woman
Part of a series onTransgender topics     
OutlineHistoryTimeline
Gender identities
Androgyne
Bissu, Calabai, Calalai
Burrnesha
Cisgender
Gender bender
Hijra
Non-binary or genderqueer
Gender fluidity
Kathoey
Koekchuch
Third gender
Bakla
Faʻafafine
Femminiello
Khanith
Māhū
Mudoko dako
Mukhannath
Muxe
Travesti
Two-spirit
Winkte
X-gender
Trans man
Trans woman
Fakaleitī
Mak nyah
Rae-rae
Transgender
Akava'ine
Transsexual
Health care practices
Gender clinic
Gender dysphoria
in children
Sex assignment
Hormone therapy
feminizing
masculinizing
Puberty-suppressing hormone therapy
Gender-affirming surgery
female-to-male
male-to-female
Facial feminization surgery
Facial masculinization surgery
Hair removal
Pregnancy
Reproduction
Voice therapy
WPATH
Standards of Care
Rights and legality
Gender self-identification
Legal gender
Non-binary gender
Rights movement
Organizations
Asylum
Healthcare
Military service
Prisons
Toilets
Bathroom bills
Unisex
Anti-gender movement
Discrimination
Non-binary
Transgender men
Transmisogyny
Genocide
Inequality
Violence
Murders
Trans panic
Yogyakarta Principles
Society and culture
LGBT-related films
Events
Awareness Week
Day of Remembrance
Day of Visibility
March
LGBT
Flag
History
Media portrayals
Fictional characters
Literature
Film
Television
People
Non-binary
Publications
Religion
Sports
Gender transitioning
Gender detransitioning
Transgender youth
suicide
Theory and concepts
Ambiphilia, androphilia, gynephilia
Childhood gender nonconformity
Cisgender / cissexual
Cross-dressing
Deadnaming
Gender binary
Gender expression
Gender identity
Gender-sexuality questioning
Gender variance
Postgenderism
Transfeminism
views
Transmedicalism
Transmisogyny
By countryRights
Argentina
Australia
Brazil
Canada
2016 bill
China
Germany
India
2014 bill
2019 act
Tamil Nadu
Iran
Ireland
New Zealand
Pakistan
2017 bill
New Zealand
Norway
2016 act
Singapore
South Africa
2003 act
South Korea
United Kingdom
2004 act
United States
Disenfranchisement
Title IX
Transphobia
History
Australia
Re Kevin
China
Finland
Singapore
United Kingdom
United States
Legality
Cafeteria riot
Stonewall
See also
Gender
Gender studies
Intersex
Queer heterosexuality
LGBT
Sex
sex assignment
Sex and gender distinction
Sexual orientation
Social construction of gender
Takatāpui
 Transgender portal LGBT portal
 Categoryvte
Part of a series on theAnthropology of kinship
Basic concepts
Family
Lineage
Affinity
Consanguinity
Marriage
Incest taboo
Endogamy
Exogamy
Moiety
Monogamy
Polygyny
Polygamy
Concubinage
Polyandry
Bride price
Bride service
Dowry
Parallel / cross cousins
Cousin marriage
Levirate
Sororate
Posthumous marriage
Joking relationship
Clan
Cohabitation
Fictive / Milk / Nurture kinship
Descent
Cognatic / Bilateral
Matrilateral
Lineal
Collateral
House society
Avunculate
Linealities
Ambilineality
Unilineality
Matrilineality
Patrilineality
Household forms and residence
Extended
Matrifocal
Matrilocal
Neolocal
Nuclear
Patrilocal
Terminology
Kinship terminology
Classificatory terminologies
By group
Iroquois
Crow
Omaha
Eskimo (Inuit)
Hawaiian
Sudanese
Dravidian (debated)
Case studies
Australian Aboriginal
Burmese
Chinese
Philippine
Polyandry in Tibet / in India
Feminist
Chambri
Mosuo
Sexuality
Coming of Age in Samoa
Major theorists
Diane Bell
Tom Boellstorff
Jack Goody
Gilbert Herdt
Don Kulick
Roger Lancaster
Louise Lamphere
Eleanor Leacock
Claude Lévi-Strauss
Bronisław Malinowski
Margaret Mead
Henrietta Moore
Lewis H. Morgan
Stephen O. Murray
Michelle Rosaldo
Gayle Rubin
David M. Schneider
Marilyn Strathern
Related articles
Alliance theory
Matrilineal / matrilocal societies
Feminist anthropology
Sex and Repression in Savage Society
Social Bonding and Nurture Kinship
"The Traffic in Women"
Social anthropologyCultural anthropologyvte
Third gender is a concept in which individuals are categorized, either by themselves or by society, as neither a man or woman. It is also a social category present in societies that recognize three or more genders. The term third is usually understood to mean "other", though some anthropologists and sociologists have described fourth[1] and fifth[2] genders.
The state of personally identifying as, or being identified by society as, a man, a woman, or other is usually also defined by the individual's gender identity and gender role in the particular culture in which they live.
Most cultures use a gender binary, having two genders (boys/men and girls/women).[3][4][5] In cultures with a third or fourth gender, these genders may represent very different things. To Native Hawaiians and Tahitians, Māhū is an intermediate state between man and woman known as "gender liminality".[6][7] Some traditional Diné Native Americans of the Southwestern United States, acknowledge a spectrum of four genders: feminine woman, masculine woman, feminine man, and masculine man.[8] The term "third gender" has also been used to describe the hijras of South Asia[9] who have gained legal identity, fa'afafine of Polynesia, and Balkan sworn virgins.[10] A culture recognizing a third gender does not in itself mean that they were valued by that culture, and often is the result of explicit devaluation of women in that culture.[11]
While found in a number of non-Western cultures, concepts of "third", "fourth", and "fifth" gender roles are still somewhat new to mainstream Western culture and conceptual thought.[12] The concept is most likely to be embraced in the modern LGBT or queer subcultures.[citation needed] While mainstream Western scholars—notably anthropologists who have tried to write about the South Asian hijras or the Native American "gender variant" and two-spirit people—have often sought to understand the term "third gender" solely in the language of the modern LGBT community, other scholars—especially Indigenous scholars—stress that mainstream scholars' lack of cultural understanding and context has led to widespread misrepresentation of the people these scholars place in the third gender category, as well as misrepresentations of the cultures in question, including whether or not this concept actually applies to these cultures at all.[13][14][15][16]
Sex and gender[edit]
World map of nonbinary gender recognition   Nonbinary / third gender option available as voluntary opt-in   Opt-in for intersex people only   Standard for third gender   Standard for intersex   Nonbinary / third gender option not legally recognized / no data
Main article: Legal recognition of non-binary gender
Since at least the 1970s, anthropologists have described gender categories in some cultures which they could not adequately explain using a two-gender framework.[17][pages needed] At the same time, feminists began to draw a distinction between (biological) sex and (social/psychological) gender.[citation needed]
Anthropologist Michael G. Peletz believes our notions of different types of genders (including the attitudes toward the third gender) deeply affect our lives and reflect our values in society. In Peletz' book, "Gender, Sexuality, and Body Politics in Modern Asia", he describes:[18][pages needed]
For our purposes, the term "gender" designates the cultural categories, symbols, meanings, practices, and institutionalized arrangements bearing on at least five sets of phenomena: (1) females and femininity; (2) males and masculinity; (3) Androgynes, who are partly male and partly female in appearance or of indeterminate sex/gender, as well as intersexed individuals, also known as hermaphrodites, who to one or another degree may have both male and female sexual organs or characteristics; (4) transgender people, who engage in practices that transgress or transcend normative boundaries and are thus by definition "transgressively gendered"; and (5) neutered or unsexed/ungendered individuals such as eunuchs.
Transgender people and third gender[edit]
Gender may be recognized and organized differently in different cultures. In some non-Western cultures, gender may not be seen as binary, or people may be seen as being able to cross freely between male and female, or to exist in a state that is in-between, or neither. In some cultures, being third gender may be associated with the gift of being able to mediate between the world of the spirits and the world of humans.[19] For cultures with these spiritual beliefs, it is generally seen as a positive thing, though some third gender people have also been accused of witchcraft and persecuted.[20] In most western cultures, people who do not conform to heteronormative ideals are often seen as sick, disordered, or insufficiently formed.[19]
The Indigenous māhū of Hawaii are seen as embodying an intermediate state between man and woman, known as "gender liminality".[6][7] Some traditional Dineh of the Southwestern US recognize a spectrum of four genders: feminine woman, masculine woman, feminine man, masculine man.[8] The term "third gender" has also been used to describe the hijras of South Asia[9] who have gained legal identity, the fa'afafine of Polynesia, and the Albanian sworn virgins.[10][page needed]
In some indigenous communities in Africa[vague], a woman can be recognized as a "female husband" who enjoys all the privileges of men and is recognized as such, but whose femaleness, while not openly acknowledged, is not forgotten either.[21]
The hijras of South Asia are one of the most recognized groups of third gender people. Some western commentators (Hines and Sanger) have theorized that this could be a result of the Hindu belief in reincarnation, in which gender, sex, and even species can change from lifetime to lifetime, perhaps allowing for a more fluid interpretation. There are other cultures in which the third gender is seen as an intermediate state of being rather than as a movement from one conventional sex to the other.[22]
In a study of people in the United States who thought themselves to be members of a third gender, Ingrid M. Sell found that they typically felt different from the age of 5.[23] Because of both peer and parental pressure, those growing up with the most ambiguous appearances had the most troubled childhoods and difficulties later in life. Sell also discovered similarities between the third genders of the East and those of the West. Nearly half of those interviewed were healers or in the medical profession. Many of them, again like their Eastern counterparts, were artistic, and several were able to make a living from their artistic abilities. The capacity to mediate between men and women was a common skill, and third genders were oftentimes thought to possess an unusually wide perspective and the ability to understand both sides.[23] A notable result of Sell's study is that 93% of the third genders interviewed, again like their Eastern counterparts, reported "paranormal"-type abilities.[24]
Identifying as gender-fluid, American nuclear engineer Sam Brinton uses they/them pronouns.[25]
In recent years, some Western societies have begun to recognize non-binary or genderqueer identities. Some years after Alex MacFarlane, Australian Norrie May-Welby was recognized as having unspecified status.[26] In 2016, an Oregon circuit court ruled that a resident, Elisa Rae Shupe, could legally change gender to non-binary.[27]
The Open Society Foundations published a report, License to Be Yourself in May 2014, documenting "some of the world's most progressive and rights-based laws and policies that enable trans people to change their gender identity on official documents".[28] The report comments on the recognition of third classifications, stating:
From a rights-based perspective, third sex/gender options should be voluntary, providing trans people with a third choice about how to define their gender identity. Those identifying as a third sex/gender should have the same rights as those identifying as male or female.
The document also quotes Mauro Cabral of GATE:
People tend to identify a third sex with freedom from the gender binary, but that is not necessarily the case. If only trans and/or intersex people can access that third category, or if they are compulsively assigned to a third sex, then the gender binary gets stronger, not weaker.
The report concludes that two or three options are insufficient: "A more inclusive approach would be to increase options for people to self-define their sex and gender identity."[28]
Third gender and sexual orientation[edit]
Cover of Artemis Smith's 1959 lesbian pulp fiction novel The Third Sex
Before the sexual revolution of the 1960s, there was no common non-derogatory vocabulary for non-heterosexuality; terms such as "third gender" trace back to the 1860s.[29][30][31][32][33][34][page needed]
One such term, Uranian, was used in the 19th century for a person of a third sex—originally, someone with "a female psyche in a male body" who is sexually attracted to men. Its definition was later extended to cover homosexual gender variant females and a number of other sexual types. It is believed to be an English adaptation of the German word Urning, which was first published by activist Karl Heinrich Ulrichs (1825–95) in a series of five booklets (1864–65) that were collected under the title Forschungen über das Räthsel der mannmännlichen Liebe ("Research into the Riddle of Man-Male Love"). Ulrich developed his terminology before the first public use of the term "homosexual", which appeared in 1869 in a pamphlet published anonymously by Karl-Maria Kertbeny (1824–82). The word Uranian (Urning) was derived by Ulrichs from the Greek goddess Aphrodite Urania, who was created out of the god Uranus' testicles; it stood for homosexuality, while Aphrodite Dionea (Dioning) represented heterosexuality.[35][unreliable source?] German lesbian activist Anna Rüling used the term in a 1904 speech, "What Interest Does the Women's Movement Have in Solving the Homosexual Problem?"[36][pages needed]
According to some scholars, the West is trying to reinterpret and redefine ancient third-gender identities to fit the Western concept of sexual orientation. In Redefining Fa'afafine: Western Discourses and the Construction of Transgenderism in Samoa, Johanna Schmidt argues that the Western attempts to reinterpret fa'afafine, the third gender in Samoan culture, make it have more to do with sexual orientation than gender. She also argues that this is actually changing the nature of fa'afafine itself, and making it more "homosexual".[37][unreliable source?]
A Samoan fa'afafine said, "But I would like to pursue a master's degree with a paper on homosexuality from a Samoan perspective that would be written for educational purposes because I believe some of the stuff that has been written about us is quite wrong."[38][unreliable source?]
In How to become a Berdache: Toward a unified analysis of gender diversity, Will Roscoe, using an anthropological term Indigenous people have always found offensive,[15][39] writes that "this pattern can be traced from the earliest accounts of the Spaniards to present-day ethnographies. What has been written about berdaches reflects more the influence of existing Western discourses on gender, sexuality and the Other than what observers actually witnessed."[40]
According to Towle and Morgan:
Ethnographic examples [of ‘third genders’] can come from distinct societies located in Thailand, Polynesia, Melanesia, Native America, western Africa, and elsewhere and from any point in history, from Ancient Greece to sixteenth-century England to contemporary North America. Popular authors routinely simplify their descriptions, ignoring...or conflating dimensions that seem to them extraneous, incomprehensible, or ill-suited to the images they want to convey (484).[41]
Western scholars often do not make a distinction between people of the third gender and males; they are often lumped together. The scholars usually use gender roles as a way to explain sexual relations between the third gender and males. For example, when analyzing the non-normative sex gender categories in Theravada Buddhism, Peter A. Jackson says it appears that within early Buddhist communities, men who engaged in receptive anal sex were seen as feminized and were thought to be hermaphrodites. In contrast, men who engaged in oral sex were not seen as crossing sex/gender boundaries, but rather as engaging in abnormal sexual practices without threatening their masculine gendered existence.[42]
Some writers suggest that a third gender emerged around 1700 in England: the male sodomite.[43] According to these writers, this was marked by the emergence of a subculture of effeminate males and their meeting places (molly houses), as well as a marked increase in hostility towards effeminate or homosexual males. People described themselves as members of a third sex in Europe from at least the 1860s with the writings of Karl Heinrich Ulrichs[44] and continuing in the late nineteenth century with Magnus Hirschfeld,[29] John Addington Symonds,[30] Edward Carpenter,[31] Aimée Duc[32] and others. These writers described themselves and those like them as being of an "inverted" or "intermediate" sex and experiencing homosexual desire, and their writing argued for social acceptance of such sexual intermediates.[45][pages needed] Many cited precedents from classical Greek and Sanskrit literature (see below).
Throughout much of the twentieth century, the term "third sex" was a common descriptor for homosexuals and gender nonconformists, but after the gay liberation movements of the 1970s and a growing separation of the concepts of sexual orientation and gender identity, the term fell out of favor among LGBT communities and the wider public. With the renewed exploration of gender that feminism, the modern transgender movement, and queer theory has fostered, some in the contemporary West have begun to describe themselves as a third sex again.[46] Other modern identities that cover similar ground include pangender, bigender, genderqueer, androgyne, intergender, "other gender" and "differently gendered".[original research?]
Third gender and feminism[edit]
This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources.Find sources: "Third gender" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2021)In Wilhelmine Germany, the terms drittes Geschlecht ("third sex") and Mannweib ("man-woman") were also used to describe feminists – both by their opponents[47] and sometimes by feminists themselves. In the 1899 novel Das dritte Geschlecht (The Third Sex) by Ernst von Wolzogen, feminists are portrayed as "neuters" with external female characteristics accompanied by a crippled male psyche.
Legal recognition[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)Main article: Legal recognition of non-binary gender
Several countries have adopted laws to accommodate non-binary gender identities.[citation needed]
Modern societies without legal recognition[edit]
The following gender categories have also been described as a third gender:
Africa[edit]
Angola: Chibados, third-gendered shamans in the Ndongo kingdom.[48][pages needed]
Democratic Republic of the Congo: Mangaiko among the Mbo people.[49][pages needed]
Kenya: Mashoga of Swahili-speaking areas of the Kenyan coast, particularly Mombasa.[50]
Southern Ethiopia: Ashtime of Maale culture[51][pages needed]
Asia-Pacific[edit]
In the Philippines, a number of local sex/gender identities are commonly referred to as a 'third sex' in popular discourse, as well as by some academic studies. Local terms for these identities (which are considered derogatory by some) include baklâ and binabae (Tagalog), bayot (Cebuano), agi (Ilonggo), bantut (Tausug), badíng – all of which refer to 'gay' men or trans women. Gender variant females may be called lakin-on or tomboy.[52]
Indonesia: Waria is a traditional third gender role found in modern Indonesia.[53] Additionally, the Bugis culture of Sulawesi has been described as having three sexes (male, female and intersex) as well as five genders with distinct social roles.[2]
Japan: X-gender (Xジェンダー) is a transgender identity that is not female or male, similar to "genderqueer" or "nonbinary".[54][55] The term X-gender came into use during the latter 1990s, popularized by queer organizations in Kansai, in Osaka and Kyoto.[56][57] In 2019, Japan LGBT Research Institute Inc. conducted an online survey, collecting 348,000 valid responses from people aged 20 to 69, not all of whom were LGBT. 2.5% of the respondents called themselves X-gender.[58]
Micronesia: Palao'ana in Chamorro language, Northern Marianas Islands including Guam.[59]
Polynesia: Fa'afafine (Samoan),[60] fakaleiti (Tongan), mahu (Hawaiian), mahu vahine (Tahitian), whakawahine (New Zealand Māori) and akava'ine (Cook Islands Māori).[61]
Europe[edit]
18th century England: Mollies[43]
19th century England: Uranian
Albania: Sworn virgins,[10] females who work and dress as men and inhabit some men-only spaces, but do not marry.
Femminiello, in Neapolitan culture[62]
Latin America and the Caribbean[edit]
A group of Argentine travestis working as street prostitutes at a slum in Buenos Aires Province, 1989.
Biza'ah: In Teotitlán, they have their own version of the muxe that they call biza'ah. According to Stephen, there were only 7 individuals in that community considered to be biza'ah in comparison to the muxe, of which there were many.[63] Like the muxe they were well-liked and accepted in the community.[63] Their way of walking, talking and the work that they perform are markers of recognizing biza'ah.[63]
Southern Mexico:  Muxe, In many Zapotec communities, third gender roles are often apparent.[63] The muxe are described as a third gender; biologically male but with feminine characteristics.[63] They are not considered to be homosexuals, but rather just another gender.[63] Some will marry women and have families, others will form relationships with men.[63] Although it is recognized[by whom?] that these individuals have the bodies of men, they perform gender differently than men, it is not a masculine persona, but neither is it a feminine persona that they perform but, in general, a combination of the two.[63] Lynn Stephen quotes Jeffrey Rubin, "Prominent men who [were] rumoured to be homosexual and did not adopt the muxe identity were spoken of pejoratively", suggesting that muxe gender role was more acceptable in the community.[63]
The travestis of Latin America have been considered an expression of a third gender by a wide range of anthropological studies, although this view has been contested by later authors.[64][65][66]
Tida wena: Among the Indigenous Warao people of Venezuela, Guyana and Suriname, people considered to be neither man nor woman. Historically respected, and sometimes serving as shamans or in other honored positions in their tribes, colonization has brought harsher times.[67]
Middle East[edit]
Oman: Xanith or khanith.[68]
North American indigenous cultures[edit]
Main article: Two Spirit
Two-Spirit is a modern umbrella term created at an Indigenous lesbian and gay conference in 1990 with the primary intent of replacing the offensive term, "berdache", which had been, and in some quarters still is, the term used for gay and gender-variant Indigenous people by non-Native anthropologists.[39] "Berdache"  has also been used to describe slave boys, sold into sexual servitude.[69] Kyle De Vries writes, "Berdache is a derogatory term created by Europeans and perpetuated by anthropologists and others to define Native American/First Nations people who varied from Western norms that perceive gender, sex, and sexuality as binaries and inseparable."[15]  Mary Annette Pember adds, "Unfortunately, depending on an oral tradition to impart our ways to future generations opened the floodgates for early non-Native explorers, missionaries, and anthropologists to write books describing Native peoples and therefore bolstering their own role as experts. These writings were and still are entrenched in the perspective of the authors who were and are mostly white men."[14] This has resulted in widely diverse traditions of gender-variant and third-gender traditions among the over 500 living Native American communities being homogenized and misrepresented under English-language names, and widely misinterpreted by both non-Native and disconnected descendants alike.[14] "[Two-Spirit] implies that the individual is both male and female and that these aspects are intertwined within them. The term moves away from traditional Native American/First Nations cultural identities and meanings of sexuality and gender variance. It does not take into account the terms and meanings from individual nations and tribes. ... Although two-spirit implies to some a spiritual nature, that one holds the spirit of two, both male and female, traditional Native Americans/First Nations peoples view this as a Western concept."[15][16]
At the conferences that produced the book, Two-Spirited People, I heard several First Nations people describe themselves as very much unitary, neither "male" nor "female," much less a pair in one body. Nor did they report an assumption of duality within one body as a common concept within reservation communities; rather, people confided dismay at the Western proclivity for dichotomies. Outside Indo-European-speaking societies, "gender" would not be relevant to the social personae glosses "men" and "women," and "third gender" likely would be meaningless. The unsavory word "berdache" certainly ought to be ditched (Jacobs et al. 1997:3-5), but the urban American neologism "two-spirit" can be misleading.[16]
While some have found the new term two-spirit a useful tool for intertribal organizing, it is not based in the traditional terms, and has not met with acceptance by more traditional communities;[16][15] the tribes who have traditional ceremonial roles for gender-variant people use names in their own languages, and have generally rejected this "binary" neologism as "Western".[15][70]
History[edit]
Arabia[edit]
Mukhannathun (مخنثون "effeminate ones", "ones who resemble women", singular mukhannath) was a term used in Classical Arabic to refer to effeminate men or people of ambiguous sex characteristics who appeared feminine or functioned socially in roles typically carried out by women.[71] According to the Iranian scholar Mehrdad Alipour, "in the premodern period, Muslim societies were aware of five manifestations of gender ambiguity: This can be seen through figures such as the khasi (eunuch), the hijra, the mukhannath, the mamsuh and the khuntha (hermaphrodite/intersex)."[72] Western scholars Aisya Aymanee M. Zaharin and Maria Pallotta-Chiarolli give the following explanation of the meaning of the term mukhannath and its derivate Arabic forms in the hadith literature:[73] Mukhannathun, especially those in the city of Medina, are mentioned throughout the hadith and in the works of many early Arabic and Islamic writers. During the Rashidun era and first half of the Umayyad era, they were strongly associated with music and entertainment.[71] During the Abbasid caliphate, the word itself was used as a descriptor for men employed as dancers, musicians, or comedians.[74]
Mukhannathun existed in pre-Islamic Arabia, during the time of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, and early Islamic eras.[74][75] A number of hadith indicate that mukhannathun were used as male servants for wealthy women in the early days of Islam, due to the belief that they were not sexually interested in the female body. These sources do not state that the mukhannathun were homosexual, only that they "lack desire".[71] In later eras, the term mukhannath was associated with the receptive partner in gay sexual practices, an association that has persisted into the modern day.[75] Khanith is a vernacular Arabic term used in some parts of the Arabian Peninsula to denote the gender role ascribed to males and occasionally intersex people who function sexually, and in some ways socially, as women. The term is closely related to the word mukhannath.
Early Islamic literature rarely comments upon the habits of the mukhannathun. It seems there may have been some variance in how "effeminate" they were, though there are indications that some adopted aspects of feminine dress or at least ornamentation. Some thirteenth and fourteenth-century scholars like al-Nawawi and al-Kirmani classified mukhannathun into two groups: those whose feminine traits seem unchangeable, despite the person’s best efforts to stop them, and those whose traits are changeable but refuse to stop. Islamic scholars like Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani stated that all mukhannathun must make an effort to cease their feminine behavior, but if this proved impossible, they were not worthy of punishment. Those who made no effort to become less "effeminate", or seemed to "take pleasure in (his effeminacy)", were worthy of blame. By this era, mukhannath had developed its association with homosexuality, and Badr al-Din al-Ayni saw homosexuality as "a more heinous extension of takhannuth", or effeminate behavior.[71][76]
One particularly prominent mukhannath with the laqab Tuways ("little peacock") was born in Medina on the day Muhammad died. There are few sources that describe why Tuways was labeled a mukhannath, or what behavior of his was considered effeminate. No sources describe his sexuality as immoral or imply that he was attracted to men, and he is reported to have married a woman and fathered several children in his later life.[71] While he is described as non-religious or even frivolous towards religion in many sources, others contradict this and portray him as a believing Muslim instead. His main association with the label seems to come from his profession, as music was mainly performed by women in Arab societies.[77][78]
Egypt[edit]
Inscribed pottery shards from the Middle Kingdom of Egypt (2000–1800 BCE), found near ancient Thebes (now Luxor, Egypt), list three human genders: tai (male), sḫt ("sekhet") and hmt (female).[79][better source needed] Sḫt is often translated as "eunuch", although there is little evidence that such individuals were castrated.[80][unreliable source?]
Indic culture[edit]
The Hindu god Shiva is often represented as Ardhanarisvara, with a dual male and female nature. Typically, Ardhanarisvara's right side is male and left side female. This sculpture is from the Elephanta Caves near Mumbai.
References to a third sex can be found throughout the texts of India's religious traditions like Jainism[81] and Buddhism[82] – and it can be inferred that Vedic culture recognised three genders. The Vedas (c. 1500 BC–500 BC) describe individuals as belonging to one of three categories, according to one's nature or prakrti. These are also spelled out in the Kama Sutra (c. 4th century AD) and elsewhere as pums-prakrti (male-nature), stri-prakrti (female-nature), and tritiya-prakrti (third-nature).[83] Texts suggest that third sex individuals were well known in premodern India and included male-bodied or female-bodied[84] people as well as intersex people, and that they can often be recognised from childhood.
A third sex is discussed in ancient Hindu law, medicine, linguistics and astrology. The foundational work of Hindu law, the Manu Smriti (c. 200 BC–200 AD) explains the biological origins of the three sexes:
A male child is produced by a greater quantity of male seed, a female child by the prevalence of the female; if both are equal, a third-sex child or boy and girl twins are produced; if either are weak or deficient in quantity, a failure of conception results.[85]
Indian linguist Patañjali's[86] work on Sanskrit grammar, the Mahābhāṣya (c. 200 BC), states that Sanskrit's three grammatical genders are derived from three natural genders. The earliest Tamil grammar, the Tolkappiyam (3rd century BC) refers to hermaphrodites as a third "neuter" gender (in addition to a feminine category of unmasculine males). In Vedic astrology, the nine planets are each assigned to one of the three genders; the third gender, tritiya-prakrti, is associated with Mercury, Saturn and (in particular) Ketu. In the Puranas, there are references to three kinds of devas of music and dance: apsaras (female), gandharvas (male) and kinnars (neuter).
The two great Sanskrit epic poems, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata,[87][88] indicates the existence of a third gender in ancient Indic society. Some versions of Ramayana tell that in one part of the story, the hero Rama heads into exile in the forest. Halfway there, he discovers that most of the people of his hometown Ayodhya were following him. He told them, "Men and women, turn back", and with that, those who were "neither men nor women" did not know what to do, so they stayed there. When Rama returned from exile years later, he discovered them still there and blessed them, saying that there will be a day when they, too, will have a share in ruling the world.[89][90][91][88]
In the Buddhist Vinaya, codified in its present form around the 2nd century BC and said to be handed down by oral tradition from Buddha himself, there are four main sex/gender categories: males, females, ubhatobyañjanaka (people of a dual sexual nature) and paṇḍaka (people of non-normative sexual natures, perhaps originally denoting a deficiency in male sexual capacity).[82] As the Vinaya tradition developed, the term paṇḍaka came to refer to a broad third sex category which encompassed intersex, male and female-bodied people with physical or behavioural attributes that were considered inconsistent with the natural characteristics of man and woman.[92]
Israel[edit]
In old Israel[when?] there were:
Androgynos: both male and female genitalia (eternal doubt of legal gender)
Aylonit: Barren female. Female genitalia, barren.
Nekeva: female
Saris: castrated or naturally infertile male (often translated as "eunuch")[93][94]
Tumtum: genitalia concealed by skin (unknown gender, unless skin removed)
Zachar: male
Mediterranean culture[edit]
2nd-century Roman copy of a Greek sculpture. The figure is Hermaphroditus, from which the word hermaphrodite is derived.
In Plato's Symposium, written around the 4th century BC, Aristophanes relates a creation myth involving three original sexes: female, male and androgynous. They are split in half by Zeus, producing four different contemporary sex/gender types which seek to be reunited with their lost other half; in this account, the modern heterosexual man and woman descend from the original androgynous sex. The myth of Hermaphroditus involves heterosexual lovers merging into their primordial androgynous sex.[95][non-primary source needed]
Other creation myths around the world share a belief in three original sexes, such as those from northern Thailand.[96]
Many have interpreted the "eunuchs" of the Ancient Eastern Mediterranean world as a third gender that inhabited a liminal space between women and men, understood in their societies as somehow neither or both.[97] In the Historia Augusta, the eunuch body is described as a tertium genus hominum (a third human gender). In 77 BC, a eunuch named Genucius was prevented from claiming goods left to him in a will, on the grounds that he had voluntarily mutilated himself (amputatis sui ipsius) and was neither a woman or a man (neque virorum neque mulierum numero) according to Valerius Maximus. Several scholars have argued that the eunuchs in the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament were understood in their time to belong to a third gender, rather than the more recent interpretations of a kind of emasculated man, or a metaphor for chastity.[98] The early Christian theologian, Tertullian, wrote that Jesus himself was a eunuch (c. 200 AD).[99] Tertullian also noted the existence of a third sex (tertium sexus) among heathens: "a third race in sex... made of male and female in one." He may have been referring to the Galli, "eunuch" devotees of the Phrygian goddess Cybele, who were described as belonging to a third sex by several Roman writers.[100]
Mesopotamia[edit]
Stone tablet from 2nd millennium BC Sumer containing a myth about the creation of a type of human who is neither man nor woman.
In Mesopotamian mythology, among the earliest written records of humanity, there are references to types of people who are not men and not women. In a Sumerian creation myth found on a stone tablet from the second millennium BC, the goddess Ninmah fashions a being "with no male organ and no female organ", for whom Enki finds a position in society: "to stand before the king". In the Akkadian myth of Atra-Hasis (ca. 1700 BC), Enki instructs Nintu, the goddess of birth, to establish a "third category among the people" in addition to men and women, that includes demons who steal infants, women who are unable to give birth, and priestesses who are prohibited from bearing children.[101][pages needed] In Babylonia, Sumer and Assyria, certain types of individuals who performed religious duties in the service of Inanna/Ishtar have been described as a third gender.[102] They worked as sacred prostitutes or Hierodules, performed ecstatic dance, music and plays, wore masks and had gender characteristics of both women and men.[103] In Sumer, they were given the cuneiform names of ur.sal ("dog/man-woman") and kur.gar.ra (also described as a man-woman).[104] Modern scholars, struggling to describe them using contemporary sex/gender categories, have variously described them as "living as women", or used descriptors such as hermaphrodites, eunuchs, homosexuals, transvestites, effeminate males and a range of other terms and phrases.[105]
The Americas[edit]
Mesoamerica[edit]
The ancient Maya civilization may have recognised a third gender, according to historian Matthew Looper. Looper notes the androgynous Maize Deity and masculine Moon goddess of Maya mythology, and iconography and inscriptions where rulers embody or impersonate these deities. He suggests that a Mayan third gender might also have included individuals with special roles such as healers or diviners.[106]
Anthropologist and archaeologist Miranda Stockett notes that several writers have felt the need to move beyond a two-gender framework when discussing prehispanic cultures across mesoamerica,[107] and concludes that the Olmec, Aztec and Maya peoples understood "more than two kinds of bodies and more than two kinds of gender." Anthropologist Rosemary Joyce agrees, writing that "gender was a fluid potential, not a fixed category before the Spaniards came to Mesoamerica. Childhood training and ritual shaped, but did not set, adult gender, which could encompass third genders and alternative sexualities as well as "male" and "female." At the height of the Classic period, Maya rulers presented themselves as embodying the entire range of gender possibilities, from the male through the female, by wearing blended costumes and playing male and female roles in state ceremonies." Joyce notes that many figures of Mesoamerican art are depicted with male genitalia and female breasts, while she suggests that other figures in which chests and waists are exposed but no sexual characteristics (primary or secondary) are marked may represent a third sex, ambiguous gender, or androgyny.[108]
Inca[edit]
Andean Studies scholar Michael Horswell writes that third-gendered ritual attendants to chuqui chinchay, a jaguar deity in Incan mythology, were "vital actors in Andean ceremonies" prior to Spanish colonisation. Horswell elaborates: "These quariwarmi (men-women) shamans mediated between the symmetrically dualistic spheres of Andean cosmology and daily life by performing rituals that at times required same-sex erotic practices. Their transvested attire served as a visible sign of a third space that negotiated between the masculine and the feminine, the present and the past, the living and the dead. Their shamanic presence invoked the androgynous creative force often represented in Andean mythology."[109] Richard Trexler gives an early Spanish account of religious 'third gender' figures from the Inca empire in his 1995 book "Sex and Conquest":
And in each important temple or house of worship, they have a man or two, or more, depending on the idol, who go dressed in women's attire from the time they are children, and speak like them, and in manner, dress, and everything else they imitate women. With them especially the chiefs and headmen have carnal, foul intercourse on feast days and holidays, almost like a religious rite and ceremony.[110]
Indigenous North Americans[edit]
With over 500 surviving Indigenous North American cultures, attitudes about sex and gender are diverse. Historically, some communities have had social or spiritual roles for people who in some way may manifest a third-gender, or another gender-variant way of being, at least some of the time, by their particular culture's standards. Some of these ways continue today, while others have died out due to colonialism. Some communities and individuals have adopted the pan-Indian neologism Two-spirit as a way of honoring contemporary figures and organizing intertribally.[15][14][16]
Inuit[edit]
Inuit religion states that the one of the first angakkuq was a third gender being known as Itijjuaq who discovered the first amulet.[111]
Historically, Inuit in areas of the Canadian Arctic, such as Igloolik and Nunavik, had a third gender concept called sipiniq (Inuktitut: ᓯᐱᓂᖅ).[112] A sipiniq infant was believed to have changed their physical sex from male to female at the moment of birth.[113] Sipiniq children were regarded as socially male, and would be named after a male relative, perform a male's tasks, and would wear traditional clothing tailored for men's tasks. This generally lasted until puberty, but in some cases continued into adulthood and even after the sipiniq person married a man.[114] The Netsilik Inuit used the word kipijuituq for a similar concept.[115]
Art, literature, and media[edit]
Illustration from the Nuremberg Chronicle, by Hartmann Schedel (1440–1514)
In David Lindsay's 1920 novel A Voyage to Arcturus there is a type of being called phaen, a third gender which is attracted neither to men nor women but to "Faceny" (their name for Shaping or Crystalman, the Demiurge). The appropriate pronouns are ae and aer.[116]
Mikaël, a 1924 film directed by Carl Theodor Dreyer, was also released as Chained: The Story of the Third Sex in the USA.[117]
Literary critic Michael Maiwald identifies a "third-sex ideal" in one of the first African-American bestsellers, Claude McKay's Home to Harlem (1928).[118]
Djuna Barnes' 1936 novel Nightwood touches on the "third sex" in the chapter Go Down, Matthew (148).[119]
Kurt Vonnegut's 1969 novel Slaughterhouse-Five identifies seven human sexes (not genders) in the fourth dimension required for reproduction including gay men, women over 65, and infants who died before their first birthday. The Tralfamadorian race has five sexes.[120][non-primary source needed]
In bro'Town (2004–2009), Brother Ken is the principal of the school and is fa'afafine, a Samoan concept for a third gender, a person who is born biologically male but is raised and sees themself as female. Because the concept does not readily translate, when the series was broadcast on Adult Swim Latin America, a decision was made not to translate Samoan words and just present them as part of the "cultural journey".[121]
In Knights of Sidonia (2014–2015), Izana Shinatose belongs to a new, nonbinary third gender that originated during the hundreds of years of human emigration into space, as first shown in the episode "Commencement."[122] Izana later turns into a girl after falling in love with Nagate Tanasake.
Spirituality[edit]
In Hinduism, Shiva is still worshipped as an Ardhnarishwara, i.e. half-male and half-female form.[123] Shiva's symbol, which is today known as Shivalinga, actually comprises a combination of a 'Yoni' (vagina) and a 'Lingam' (phallus).[124]
At the turn of the common era, male cults devoted to a goddess that flourished throughout the broad region extending from the Mediterranean to South Asia. While galli were missionizing the Roman Empire, kalū, kurgarrū, and assinnu continued to carry out ancient rites in the temples of Mesopotamia, and the third-gender predecessors of the hijra were clearly evident. It should also be mentioned of the eunuch priests of Artemis at Ephesus; the western Semitic qedeshim, the male "temple prostitutes" known from the Hebrew Bible and Ugaritic texts of the late second millennium; and the keleb, priests of Astarte at Kition and elsewhere. Beyond India, modern ethnographic literature documents gender-variant shaman-priests throughout Southeast Asia, Borneo, and Sulawesi. All these roles share the traits of devotion to a goddess, gender transgression and receptive anal sex, ecstatic ritual techniques (for healing, in the case of kalū and Mesopotamian priests, and fertility in the case of hijra), and actual (or symbolic) castration. Most, at some point in their history, were based in temples and, therefore, part of the religious-economic administration of their respective city-states.[125]
The Islamic conception of the "perfect human being" (al-Insān al-Kāmil) is, as evident from the writings of ibn Arabi, genderless, and both women and men could equally attain this stage of spiritual development,[126] which is further reflected in genderless form of the term kamāl.[127]
Criticism[edit]
Scholars have made several criticisms of the third gender concept. These critiques regard primarily Western scholars' use of the concept to understand gender in other cultures in an ethnocentric way. Third gender has also been criticized as a reductionist "junk drawer" used for all identities beyond the Western gender binary, ignoring the nuance of various identities, histories, and practices in other cultures to situate them in a Western understanding.[citation needed] As Towle and Morgan write, "The term third gender does not disrupt gender binarism; it simply adds another category (albeit a segregated, ghettoized category) to the existing two." Towle and Morgan additionally note that Western scholars may incorrectly treat non-Western third gender examples as though they existed prior to and serve as the foundation for modern Western understandings of gender variability.[128]  This implication makes it difficult for Western scholars to understand how non-Western cultures view and value sex and gender in their own societies in both the present day and historically.[129]
See also[edit]
Transgender portal
Ardhanarishvara
Gender variance
Intersex
List of transgender-related topics
Non-binary gender
Sexual norm
Sexuality and gender identity-based cultures
References[edit]
^ Trumbach, Randolph (1994). London's Sapphists: From Three Sexes to Four Genders in the Making of Modern Culture. In Third Sex, Third Gender: Beyond Sexual Dimorphism in Culture and History, edited by Gilbert Herdt, 111-36. New York: Zone (MIT). ISBN 978-0-942299-82-3
^ a b Graham, Sharyn (2001), Sulawesi's fifth gender Archived 26 November 2014 at the Wayback Machine, Inside Indonesia, April–June 2001.
^ Kevin L. Nadal, The SAGE Encyclopedia of Psychology and Gender (2017, ISBN 1483384276), page 401: "Most cultures currently construct their societies based on the understanding of gender binary—the two gender categorizations (male and female). Such societies divide their population based on biological sex assigned to individuals at birth to begin the process of gender socialization."
^ Sigelman, Carol K.; Rider, Elizabeth A. (14 March 2017). Life-Span Human Development. Cengage Learning. p. 385. ISBN 978-1-337-51606-8. Retrieved 4 August 2021.
^ Maddux, James E.; Winstead, Barbara A. (11 July 2019). Psychopathology: Foundations for a Contemporary Understanding. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-429-64787-1. Retrieved 4 August 2021.
^ a b Besnier, Niko; Alexeyeff, Kalissa (2014). Gender on the Edge: Transgender, Gay, and Other Pacific Islanders. Honolulu: University of Hawai'i Press. p. 241. ISBN 9780824838829. JSTOR j.ctt6wqhsc.
^ a b Zanghellini, Aleardo (2013). "Sodomy Laws and Gender Variance in Tahiti and Hawai'i". Laws. 2 (2): 51–68. doi:10.3390/laws2020051.
^ a b Estrada, Gabriel S (2011). "Two Spirits, Nádleeh, and LGBTQ2 Navajo Gaze" (PDF). American Indian Culture and Research Journal. 35 (4): 167–190. doi:10.17953/aicr.35.4.x500172017344j30. Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 May 2015. Retrieved 16 October 2016.
^ a b Agrawal, A. (1997). "Gendered Bodies: The Case of the 'Third Gender' in India". Contributions to Indian Sociology. 31 (2): 273–297. doi:10.1177/006996697031002005. S2CID 145502268.
^ a b c Young, Antonia (2000). Women Who Become Men: Albanian Sworn Virgins. ISBN 1-85973-335-2
^ Holmes, Morgan (July 2004). "Locating Third Sexes" (PDF). Transformations Journal (8). ISSN 1444-3775. Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 April 2017. Retrieved 28 December 2014. recognition of third sexes and third genders is not equal to valuing the presence of those who were neither male nor female, and often hinges on the explicit devaluation of women, as with the Sambia of New Guinea, or on the valuation of female virginity at the expense of valuing female humanity, as in Polynesia.
^ McGee, R. Jon and Richard L. Warms 2011 Anthropological Theory: An Introductory History. New York, McGraw Hill.
^ "Asia and the Pacific – ANU". Archived from the original on 24 February 2012. Retrieved 27 December 2014.
^ a b c d Pember, Mary Annette (13 October 2016). "'Two Spirit' Tradition Far From Ubiquitous Among Tribes". Rewire. Retrieved 17 October 2016. Unfortunately, depending on an oral tradition to impart our ways to future generations opened the floodgates for early non-Native explorers, missionaries, and anthropologists to write books describing Native peoples and therefore bolstering their own role as experts. These writings were and still are entrenched in the perspective of the authors who were and are mostly white men.
^ a b c d e f g de Vries, Kylan Mattias (2009). "Berdache (Two-Spirit)". In O'Brien, Jodi (ed.). Encyclopedia of gender and society. Los Angeles: SAGE. p. 64. ISBN 9781412909167. Retrieved 6 March 2015. [Two-Spirit] implies that the individual is both male and female and that these aspects are intertwined within them. The term moves away from traditional Native American/First Nations cultural identities and meanings of sexuality and gender variance. It does not take into account the terms and meanings from individual nations and tribes. ... Although two-spirit implies to some a spiritual nature, that one holds the spirit of two, both male and female, traditional Native Americans/First Nations peoples view this as a Western concept.
^ a b c d e Kehoe, Alice B. (2002). "Appropriate Terms". SAA Bulletin. Society for American Archaeology 16(2), UC-Santa Barbara. ISSN 0741-5672. Archived from the original on 5 November 2004. Retrieved 1 May 2019. At the conferences that produced the book, Two-Spirited People, I heard several First Nations people describe themselves as very much unitary, neither "male" nor "female," much less a pair in one body. Nor did they report an assumption of duality within one body as a common concept within reservation communities; rather, people confided dismay at the Western proclivity for dichotomies. Outside Indo-European-speaking societies, "gender" would not be relevant to the social personae glosses "men" and "women," and "third gender" likely would be meaningless. The unsavory word "berdache" certainly ought to be ditched (Jacobs et al. 1997:3-5), but the urban American neologism "two-spirit" can be misleading.
^ Martin, M. Kay; Voorhies, Barbara (1975). "4. Supernumerary Sexes". Female of the Species. New York, N.Y.: Columbia University Press. ISBN 9780231038751. OCLC 1094960.
^ Peletz, Michael G. (2007). Gender, Sexuality, and Body Politics in Modern Asia. Michigan: Association for Asian Studies. ISBN 9780924304507.
^ a b Sell, Ingrid M.  "Third gender: A qualitative study of the experience of individuals who identify as being neither man nor woman."  The Psychotherapy Patient.  13.1/2 (2004): p.132
^ Stewart, Chuck, ed. (2014). Proud heritage : people, issues, and documents of the LGBT experience. ABC-CLIO. p. 345. ISBN 978-1-61069-398-1.
^ Stern, E Mark; Marchesani, Robert B (2014). "Third gender: A qualitative study of the experience of individuals who identify as being neither man nor woman". Saints and Rogues: Conflicts and Convergence in Psychotherapy. Routledge. p. 135. ISBN 978-1-317-71804-8.
^ Hines, Sally, and Tam Sanger. Transgender Identities: Towards a Social Analysis of Gender Diversity. New York: Routledge, 2010. Print. p.244
^ a b Sell, Ingrid M.  "Third gender: A qualitative study of the experience of individuals who identify as being neither man nor woman."  The Psychotherapy Patient.  13.1/2 (2004): p.139
^ Sell, Ingrid M.  "Third gender: A qualitative study of the experience of individuals who identify as being neither man nor woman."  The Psychotherapy Patient.  13.1/2 (2004): p.141
^ Compton, Julie (19 January 2017). "OutFront: LGBTQ Activist Fights to End Conversion Therapy". NBC News. Archived from the original on 11 February 2022.
^ "Briton is recognised as world's first officially genderless person", The Telegraph. 15 March 2010.
^ O'Hara, Mary Emily (10 June 2016). "'Nonbinary' is now a legal gender, Oregon court rules". The Daily Dot. Retrieved 10 June 2016.
^ a b Byrne, Jack (2014). License to Be Yourself. New York: Open Society Foundations. ISBN 9781940983103. Retrieved 28 December 2014.
^ a b Hirschfeld, Magnus, 1904. Berlins Drittes Geschlecht ("Berlin's Third Sex")
^ a b Ellis, Havelock and Symonds, J. A., 1897. Sexual Inversion.
^ a b Carpenter, Edward, 1908. The Intermediate Sex: A Study of Some Transitional Types of Men and Women.
^ a b Duc, Aimée, 1901. Sind es Frauen? Roman über das dritte Geschlecht ("Are These Women? Novel about the Third Sex")
^ Ross, E. Wayne (2006). The Social Studies Curriculum: Purposes, Problems, and Possibilities. SUNY Press. ISBN 978-0-7914-6909-5.
^ Kennedy, Hubert C. (1980) The "third sex" theory of Karl Heinrich Ulrichs, Journal of Homosexuality. 1980–1981 Fall–Winter; 6(1–2): pp. 103–1
^ "Secreted Desires: The Major Uranians: Hopkins, Pater and Wilde". www.mmkaylor.com.
^ Meem, Deborah T.; Gibson, Michelle; Gibson, Michelle A.; Alexander, Jonathan (28 May 2018). Finding Out: An Introduction to LGBT Studies. SAGE. ISBN 9781412938655 – via Google Books.
^ "Intersections: Redefining Fa'afafine: Western Discourses and the Construction of Transgenderism in Samoa". intersections.anu.edu.au.
^ Redefining Fa'afafine: Western Discourses and the Construction of Transgenderism in Samoa Johanna Schmidt; Intersections: Gender, History, and Culture in the Asian Context; Issue 6, August 2001
^ a b Medicine, Beatrice (August 2002). "Directions in Gender Research in American Indian Societies: Two Spirits and Other Categories". Online Readings in Psychology and Culture. 3 (1): 7. doi:10.9707/2307-0919.1024. ISSN 2307-0919. Archived from the original on 8 December 2012. Retrieved 25 June 2016. At the Wenner Gren conference on gender held in Chicago, May, 1994... the gay American Indian and Alaska Native males agreed to use the term "Two-Spirit" to replace the controversial "berdache" term. The stated objective was to purge the older term from anthropological literature as it was seen as demeaning and not reflective of Native categories. Unfortunately, the term "berdache" has also been incorporated in the psychology and women studies domains, so the task for the affected group to purge the term looms large and may be formidable.
^ How to become a Berdache: Toward a unified analysis of gender diversity Will Roscoe  Archived 26 February 2009 at the Wayback Machine
^ The Great Third Gender Debate; BELOW THE BELT, theory-q Archived May 3, 2011, at the Wayback Machine
^ Non-normative Sex/Gender Categories in the Theravada Buddhist Scriptures
Compiled by Peter A. Jackson Archived 24 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine
^ a b Trumbach, Randolph. (1998) Sex and the Gender Revolution. Volume 1: Heterosexuality and the Third Gender in Enlightenment London. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1998. (Chicago Series on Sexuality, History & Society)
^ Kennedy, Hubert (1981). "The "Third Sex" Theory of Karl Heinrich Ulrichs". Journal of Homosexuality. 6 (1–2): 103–111. doi:10.1300/J082v06n01_10. PMID 7042820.
^ Jones, James W. (1990). "We of the third sex": homo Representations of Homosexuality in Wilhelmine Germany. (German Life and Civilization v. 7) New York: Peter Lang Publishing, 1990. ISBN 0-8204-1209-0
^ Sell, Ingrid (2001). "Not man, not woman: Psychospiritual characteristics of a Western third gender". Journal of Transpersonal Psychology. 33 (1): 16–36. (Complete doctoral dissertation: Sell, Ingrid. (2001). Third gender: A qualitative study of the experience of individuals who identify as being neither man nor woman. (Doctoral Dissertation, Institute of Transpersonal Psychology). UMI No. 3011299.)
^ Wright, B. D. (1987). ""New Man," Eternal Woman: Expressionist Responses to German Feminism". The German Quarterly. 60 (4): 582–599. doi:10.2307/407320. JSTOR 407320.
^ Bleys, Rudi C. (1995). The Geography of Perversion: Male-to-Male Sexual Behavior Outside the West and the Ethnographic Imagination, 1750-1918. New York University Press. ISBN 9780814712658.
^ Towles, Joseph A. (1993). Nkumbi initiation: Ritual and structure among the Mbo of Zaire, Musée royal de l'Afrique Centrale  (Tervuren, Belgique)
^ Sinnott, Megan (January 2004). Toms and Dees: Transgender Identity and Female Same-Sex Relationships in Thailand. University of Hawaii Press. p. 39. ISBN 978-0-8248-2852-3.
^ Donham, Donald (1990). History, Power, Ideology. Central Issues in Marxism and Anthropology, Cambridge
^ Nanda, Serena (1999). Gender Diversity: Crosscultural Variations. Waveland Pr Inc, 7 October 1999. ISBN 1-57766-074-9
^ Oostvogels, Robert (1995). The Waria of Indonesia: A Traditional Third Gender Role, in Herdt (ed.), op cit.
^ Kusakabe, Motomi (5 May 2016). "男でも女でもない「Ｘジェンダー」に理解を". Mainichi Shimbun. Retrieved 6 June 2016.
^ "Selected Links on Non-Binary Gender in Japan: Xジェンダー". 28 March 2013. Retrieved 21 December 2020.
^ "【ＸラウンジからNEWS！】参議院議員の尾辻かな子さんへのレインボー・アクションの陳情で、Ｘラウンジから要望書を提出しました。" [[NEWS from X Lounge!] We submitted a request form from the X Lounge in response to a petition of Kanae Otsuji, a member of the House of Councilors, about the rainbow action.]. Rainbow Action (in Japanese). Archived from the original on 21 February 2020. Retrieved 21 December 2020.
^ "An Introduction to X-Jendā: Examining a New Gender Identity in Japan". Retrieved 21 December 2020.
^ "Most people in Japan know LGBT but understanding limited". Kyodo News. 11 December 2019. Archived from the original on 6 June 2020. Retrieved 21 December 2020.
^ Ka'opua, L. S. I.; Cassel, K.; Shiramizu, B.; Stotzer, R. L.; Robles, A.; Kapua, C.; Orton, M.; Milne, C.; Sesepasara, M. (2015). "Addressing Risk and Reluctance at the Nexus of HIV and Anal Cancer Screening". Health Promotion Practice. 17 (1): 21–30. doi:10.1177/1524839915615611. ISSN 1524-8399. PMC 4684716. PMID 26630979.
^ Sua'aIi'i, Tamasailau, "Samoans and Gender: Some Reflections on Male, Female and Fa'afafine Gender Identities", in: Tangata O Te Moana Nui: The Evolving Identities of Pacific Peoples in Aotearoa/New Zealand, Palmerston North (NZ): Dunmore Press, 2001, ISBN 0-86469-369-9
^ National fono for Pacific "third sex" communities, media release from New Zealand Aids Foundation, 5 August 2005. Article online.
^ "The Femminiello in Neapolitan Culture". Around Naples Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 15 May 2011. Retrieved 21 December 2020.
^ a b c d e f g h i Lynn Stephen. Sexualities and Genders in Zapotec Oaxaca. Latin American Perspectives. 29(2)41–59
^ Cabral, Julieta (2012). Geografía travesti: Cuerpos, sexualidad y migraciones de travestis brasileñas (Rio de Janeiro-Barcelona) (doctoral thesis thesis) (in Spanish). Universitat de Barcelona. Retrieved 7 May 2020.
^ Fernández, Josefina (2004). Cuerpos desobedientes: travestismo e identidad de género (in Spanish). Buenos Aires: Edhasa. p. 41. ISBN 950-9009-16-4.
^ Kulick, Don (1998). Travesti: Sex, Gender and Culture among Brazilian Transgendered Prostitutes. Worlds of Desire: The Chicago Series on Sexuality, Gender, and Culture. University of Chicago Press. p. 230. ISBN 978-022-646-099-4.
^ Laiz, Alvaro (2012). "Wonderland, the strange inhabitants of Delta Amacuro". Port Huron Museum. Retrieved 7 August 2021. The Warao, as it happens in other ethnic groups, considers certain people are not man neither woman. They call them Tida Wena.
^ Wikan, Unni (1991). The Xanith: a third gender role? in Behind the veil in Arabia: women in Oman. Chicago: University of Chicago Press
^ Steingass, Francis Joseph (1892). A Comprehensive Persian-English dictionary, including the Arabic words and phrases to be met within Persian literature. London: Routledge & K. Paul. p. 173. Archived from the original on 1 April 2022. Retrieved 24 September 2019.
^ "Two Spirit Terms in Tribal Languages". Native Out. Archived from the original on 2 January 2015. Retrieved 21 December 2020.
^ a b c d e Rowson, Everett K. (October 1991). "The Effeminates of Early Medina" (PDF). Journal of the American Oriental Society. American Oriental Society. 111 (4): 671–693. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.693.1504. doi:10.2307/603399. ISSN 0003-0279. JSTOR 603399. LCCN 12032032. OCLC 47785421. S2CID 163738149. Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 October 2008.
^ Alipour, Mehrdad (2017). "Islamic shari'a law, neotraditionalist Muslim scholars and transgender sex-reassignment surgery: A case study of Ayatollah Khomeini's and Sheikh al-Tantawi's fatwas". International Journal of Transgenderism. Taylor & Francis. 18 (1): 91–103. doi:10.1080/15532739.2016.1250239. ISSN 1553-2739. LCCN 2004213389. OCLC 56795128. S2CID 152120329.
^ Zaharin, Aisya Aymanee M.; Pallotta-Chiarolli, Maria (June 2020). "Countering Islamic conservatism on being transgender: Clarifying Tantawi's and Khomeini's fatwas from the progressive Muslim standpoint". International Journal of Transgender Health. Taylor & Francis. 21 (3): 235–241. doi:10.1080/26895269.2020.1778238. ISSN 1553-2739. LCCN 2004213389. OCLC 56795128. PMC 8726683. PMID 34993508. S2CID 225679841.
^ a b Moreh, S. (1998). "mukhannathun". In Meisami, Julie Scott; Starkey, Paul (eds.). Encyclopedia of Arabic Literature, Volume 2. Taylor & Francis. p. 548. ISBN 9780415185721.
^ a b Murray, Stephen O.; Roscoe, Will; Allyn, Eric; Crompton, Louis; Dickemann, Mildred; Khan, Badruddin; Mujtaba, Hasan; Naqvi, Nauman; Wafer, Jim; Westphal-Hellbusch, Sigrid (1997). "Conclusion". In Murray, Stephen O.; Roscoe, Will (eds.). Islamic Homosexualities: Culture, History, and Literature. New York City and London: NYU Press. pp. 305–310. doi:10.18574/nyu/9780814761083.003.0004. ISBN 9780814774687. JSTOR j.ctt9qfmm4. OCLC 35526232. S2CID 141668547.
^ an-Nawawi. "Al-Minhaj bi Sharh Sahih Muslim". Shamela. Archived from the original on 17 August 2018. Retrieved 14 October 2018.
^ Pacholczyk, Jozef (1983). "Secular Classical Music in the Arabic Near East". In May, Elizabeth; Hood, Mantle (eds.). Musics of Many Cultures: An Introduction. UC Press. p. 253. ISBN 9780520047785.
^ Tierney, Helen (1989). Women's Studies Encyclopedia: Literature, arts, and learning. Greenwood. p. 210. ISBN 9780313310737. In pre-Islamic Arabia, music was practiced mainly by women, especially by singing girls (qainat)
^ Sethe, Kurt, (1926), Die Aechtung feindlicher Fürsten, Völker und Dinge auf altägyptischen Tongefäßscherben des mittleren Reiches, in: Abhandlungen der Preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Philosophisch-Historische Klasse, 1926, p. 61.
^ "The Third Gender in Ancient Egypt". Retrieved 21 December 2020.
^ Zwilling, L; Sweet, MJ (1996). ""Like a city ablaze": The third sex and the creation of sexuality in Jain religious literature". Journal of the History of Sexuality. 6 (3): 359–84. JSTOR 4629615. PMID 11609126.
^ a b Jackson, Peter A. (April 1996). "Non-normative Sex/Gender Categories in the Theravada Buddhist Scriptures". Australian Humanities Review. hdl:1885/41884.
^ Alternate transliteration: trhytîyâ prakrhyti
^ Penrose, Walter (2001). "Hidden in History: Female Homoeroticism and Women of a "Third Nature" in the South Asian Past". Journal of the History of Sexuality. 10: 3–39 [4]. doi:10.1353/sex.2001.0018. S2CID 142955490. distinct social and economic roles once existed for women thought to belong to a third gender. Hidden in history, these women dressed in men's clothing, served as porters and personal bodyguards to kings and queens, and even took an active role in sex with women.
^ Manu Smriti, 3.49. Text online.
^ Not to be confused with the Patañjali who was the author of the Yoga sutras.
^ Lord Arjuna takes a "vow of eunuchism" to live as the third sex for a year: "O lord of the Earth, I will declare myself as one of the neuter sex. O monarch, it is, indeed difficult to hide the marks of the bowstring on my arms. I will, however, cover both my cicatrized arms with bangles. Wearing brilliant rings on my ears and conch-bangles on my wrists and causing a braid to hang down from my head, I shall, O king, appear as one of the third sex, Vrihannala by name. And living as a female I shall (always) entertain the king and the inmates of the inner apartments by reciting stories. And, O king, I shall also instruct the women of Virata's palace in singing and delightful modes of dancing and in musical instruments of diverse kinds. And I shall also recite the various excellent acts of men..." Mahabharata (Virata-parva), Translated by Ganguli, Kisari Mohan. Project Gutenberg.
^ a b Pattanaik, Devdutt (2018). Ramayana versus Mahabharata : my playful comparison. New Delhi. ISBN 978-93-5333-230-3. OCLC 1085374530.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ Kakar, Sudhir (1996). The colors of violence : cultural identities, religion, and conflict. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. p. 163. ISBN 0-226-42284-4. OCLC 33043083.
^ Nanda, Serena (1990). Neither man nor woman : the Hijras of India. Belmont, Calif.: Wadsworth Pub. Co. p. 13. ISBN 0-534-12204-3. OCLC 20091288.
^ Lorber, Judith (1994). Paradoxes of gender. New Haven: Yale University Press. p. 93. ISBN 0-585-35777-3. OCLC 47008359.
^ Gyatso, J. (2003). "One Plus One Makes Three: Buddhist Gender, Monasticism, and the Law of the Non-Excluded Middle". History of Religions. 43 (2): 89–115. doi:10.1086/423006. JSTOR 3176712. S2CID 162098679.
^ [1] Classic Jewish terms for Gender Diversity
^ [2] Gender Diversity in Halakha
^ "The Internet Classics Archive – Symposium by Plato". classics.mit.edu.
^ Jackson, Peter A. (1995) Kathoey: The third sex. In Jackson, P., "Dear Uncle Go: Male homosexuality in Thailand." Bangkok, Thailand: Bua Luang BooksSee also: Peltier, Anatole-Roger (1991). Pathamamulamuli: The Origin of the World in the Lan Na Tradition. Chiang Mai, Thailand: Silkworm Books. The Yuan creation myth in the book is from Pathamamulamuli, an antique Buddhist palm leaf manuscript. Its translator, Anatole-Roger Peltier, believes that this story is based on an oral tradition that is over five hundred years old. Text online.
^ S. Tougher, ed., (2001) Eunuchs in Antiquity and Beyond (London: Duckworth Publishing, 2001).Ringrose, Kathryn M. (2003). The Perfect Servant: Eunuchs and the Social Construction of Gender in Byzantium. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. 2003.
^ Hester, J. David (2005). "Eunuchs and the Postgender Jesus: Matthew 19:12 and Transgressive Sexualities" (PDF). Journal for the Study of the New Testament. 28 (1): 13–40. doi:10.1177/0142064X05057772. S2CID 145724743. Retrieved 2 April 2011.
^ Note: There is some controversy in this statement as in context, spado, which in most cases means eunuch, is generally translated as virgin as in here and a fuller explanation can be found here [3]. Tertullian, On Monogamy, 3: "...He stands before you if you are willing to copy him, as a voluntary spado (eunuch) in the flesh." And elsewhere: "The Lord Himself opened the kingdom of heaven to eunuchs and He Himself lived as a eunuch. The apostle [Paul] also, following His example, made himself a eunuch..."
^ e.g. "Both sexes are displeasing to her holiness, so [the gallus] keeps a middle gender (medium genus) between the others." Prudentius, Peristephanon, 10.1071-3
^ Murray, Stephen O., and Roscoe, Will (1997). Islamic Homosexualities: Culture, History, and Literature. New York: New York University Press.
^ Roscoe, W. (1996). "Priests of the Goddess: Gender Transgression in Ancient Religion". History of Religions. 35 (3): 195–230. doi:10.1086/463425. JSTOR 1062813. S2CID 162368477. Retrieved 2 April 2011. Roscoe identifies these temple staff by the names kalû, kurgarrû, and assinnu.
^ Nissinen, Martti (1998). Homoeroticism in the Biblical World, Translated by Kirsi Stjedna. Fortress Press (November 1998) p. 30. ISBN 0-8006-2985-XSee also: Maul, S. M. (1992). Kurgarrû und assinnu und ihr Stand in der babylonischen Gesellschaft. Pp. 159–71 in Aussenseiter und Randgruppen. Konstanze Althistorische Vorträge und Forschungern 32. Edited by V. Haas. Konstanz: Universitätsverlag.
^ Nissinen (1998) p. 28, 32.
^ Leick, Gwendolyn (1994). Sex and Eroticism in Mesopotamian Literature. Routledge. New York.*Leick's account: Sumerian: sag-ur-sag, pilpili and kurgarra; and Assyrian: assinnu. Leick describes them as "hermaphrodites, homosexual transvestites, and other, castrated individuals".Burns, John Barclay (2000). "Devotee or Deviate: The "Dog" (keleb) in Ancient Israel as a Symbol of Male Passivity and Perversion". Journal of Religion & Society. 2. ISSN 1522-5658. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011. Retrieved 2 April 2011.*Burns defines the assinnu as "a member of Ishtar's cultic staff with whom, it seems, a man might have intercourse, whose masculinity had become femininity" and who "lacked libido, either from a natural defect or castration". He described the kulu'u as effeminate and the kurgarru as transvestite. In addition, he defines another kind of gender-variant prostitute, sinnisānu, as (literally) "woman-like".
^ Looper, Matthew G. (2001). Ancient Maya Women-Men (and Men-Women): Classic Rulers and the Third Gender, In: "Ancient Maya Women", ed. Traci Ardren. Walnut Creek, California: Alta Mira, 2001.
^ Stockett, M. K. (2005). "On the Importance of Difference: Re-Envisioning Sex and Gender in Ancient Mesoamerica". World Archaeology. 37 (4): 566–578. doi:10.1080/00438240500404375. JSTOR 40025092. S2CID 144168812.In addition to Looper (above) and Joyce (below), Stockett cites:Geller, P. (2004). Skeletal analysis and theoretical complications. Paper presented at Que(e)rying Archaeology: The Fifteenth Anniversary Gender Conference, Chacmool Archaeology Conference, University of Calgary, Calgary.Joyce, R. A. (1998). "Performing the Body in Pre-Hispanic Central America". RES: Anthropology and Aesthetics. 33 (33): 147–165. doi:10.1086/RESv33n1ms20167006. JSTOR 20167006. S2CID 165021067.
Lopez-Austin, A. (1988). The Human Body and Ideology: Concepts of Ancient Nahuas (trans T.O. de Montellano and B.O. de Montellano). Austin, TX: University of Texas Press.
^ Joyce, Rosemary A. (2000). Gender and Power in Prehispanic Mesoamerica. Austin, TX: University of Texas Press. ISBN 978-0-292-74065-5
^ Horswell, Michael J. (2006). Transculturating Tropes of Sexuality, Tinkuy, and Third Gender in the Andes, introduction to "Decolonizing the Sodomite: Queer Tropes of Sexuality in Colonial Andean Culture". ISBN 0-292-71267-7. Article online.
^ Trexler, Richard C. (1995). Sex and Conquest. Cornell University Press: Ithaca. p. 107
^ D'Anglure, Bernard (November 2005). "The 'Third Gender' of the Inuit". Diogenes. 52 (4): 138. doi:10.1177/0392192105059478. S2CID 145220849.
^ Issenman, Betty Kobayashi (1997). Sinews of Survival: the Living Legacy of Inuit Clothing. Vancouver: UBC Press. p. 214. ISBN 978-0-7748-5641-6. OCLC 923445644.
^ Smith, Eric Alden; Smith, S. Abigail; et al. (1994). "Inuit Sex-Ratio Variation: Population Control, Ethnographic Error, or Parental Manipulation? [and Comments and Reply]". Current Anthropology. 35 (5): 617. doi:10.1086/204319. ISSN 0011-3204. JSTOR 2744084. S2CID 143679341.
^ Stern, Pamela R. (16 June 2010). Daily Life of the Inuit. ABC-CLIO. pp. 11–12. ISBN 978-0-313-36312-2.
^ Walley, Meghan (2018). "Exploring Potential Archaeological Expressions of Nonbinary Gender in Pre-Contact Inuit Contexts". Études/Inuit/Studies. 42 (1): 269–289. doi:10.7202/1064504ar. ISSN 0701-1008. JSTOR 26775769. S2CID 204473441.
^ McCracken-Flesher, Caroline (26 October 2011). Scotland as Science Fiction. Bucknell University Press. p. 52. ISBN 978-1-61148-375-8. There he encounters Leehallfae the phaen, a being "neither man nor woman nor anything between the two, but ... unmistakably of a third positive sex"— necessitating the grammatical coinage of a new pronoun "ae" (Arcturus, 205).
^ Horak, Linda. "Mikael – Silent Film Festival". Archived from the original on 14 April 2016. Retrieved 7 June 2016.
^ Maiwald, Michael (2002). "Race, Capitalism, and the Third-Sex Ideal: Claude McKay's Home to Harlem and the Legacy of Edward Carpenter". Modern Fiction Studies. 48 (4): 825–857. doi:10.1353/mfs.2002.0077. S2CID 162306828.
^ Barnes, Djuna. 1936. Nightwood. 1961. New York: New Directions.
^ Vonnegut, Kurt. (1999). Slaughterhouse-five. New York: The Dial Press, p145–146.
^ Johnson, Derek; Kompare, Derek; Santo, Avi (1 August 2014). Making Media Work: Cultures of Management in the Entertainment Industries. NYU Press. pp. 57–59. ISBN 9780814764558. Archived from the original on 17 February 2017. Retrieved 1 January 2015.
^ Søraa, Roger Andre (2019). "Post-Gendered Bodies and Relational Gender in Knights of Sidonia". Fafnir – Nordic Journal of Science Fiction and Fantasy Research. 6 (1): 56–59. Archived from the original on 12 July 2020. Retrieved 12 July 2020.
^ "Monier Williams Sanskrit-English Dictionary (2008 revision)". Archived from the original on 25 February 2009.
^ Paths to The Divine: Ancient and Indian By George McLean, Vensus A. George, Quote: Siva: The Hermaphrodite
The Lord Shiva is the underlying neutral and changeless reality, the undifferentiated absolute Consciousness, who is the foundation of every change and becoming. The hermaphrodite reality is one that is independent of all distinctions of male and female, the phenomenal and the non-phenomenal, and yet forms the basis of all such distinctions. The Puranas speak of Lord Shiva as the Hermaphrodite reality, though distinctionless within Himself, letting the distinctions of the manifold world spring up from Him. The Puranic thinkers interpreted and represented this hermaphrodite aspect of the Lord Siva in various ways. One such symbol expression is the figure of His Sakti. Another such symbol is the Phallus *(the male reproductive part) and the Yoni (the female reproductive part). A third, a more anthropomorphic metaphor, is that of the union between Siva and His many consorts, such as Parvati, Uma, and others. All these symbolisms express the truth that the variety of this universe stems from the lord Siva through his Sakti. To explain this point very picturesquely, the Puranas apply the mythological story of creation by way of the sexual union between Prajaapati and his daughter to Siva who, by His eternal union with His Sakti creates the world. The Puraanas also use another more sacrificial symbollism to expound the hermaphrodite characteristic of Shiva, according to which the male principle is represented as Fire, the devourer of the offering, and the female principle is the Soma, the devoured offering. In this symbolism, the hermaphrodite is the embodiment of the cosmic sacrifice, through which the universe emerges from the Lord Siva.
^ Priests of the Goddess: Gender Transgression in Ancient Religion by Will Roscoe
^ The Shari'a: History, Ethics and Law. (2018). Vereinigtes Königreich: Bloomsbury Publishing. p. 95
^ Shaikh, Sa’diyya. "Ibn ʿArabī and Mystical Disruptions of Gender: Theoretical Explorations in Islamic Feminism." Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society 47.2 (2022): 475-497.
^ Towle, Evan B; Morgan, Lynn Marie (2002). "Romancing the Transgender Native: Rethinking the Use of the "Third Gender" Concept". GLQ: A Journal of Lesbian and Gay Studies. 8 (4): 469–497. doi:10.1215/10642684-8-4-469. ISSN 1527-9375. S2CID 143201735.
^ Moral, Enrique (2016). "Qu(e)erying Sex and Gender in Archaeology: a Critique of the "Third" and Other Sexual Categories". Journal of Archaeological Method and Theory. 23 (3): 788–809. doi:10.1007/s10816-016-9294-y. ISSN 1072-5369. JSTOR 43967041. S2CID 151426339.
Further reading[edit]
Aldous, Susan; Sereemongkonpol, Pornchai (2008). Ladyboys: The Secret World of Thailand's Third Gender. Maverick House. ISBN 978-1-905379-48-4.
Herdt, Gilbert H. (1996). Third sex, third gender: beyond sexual dimorphism in culture and history. New York: Zone Books. ISBN 978-0-942299-82-3.
Lieber*, Angela (2018). "Western Scholarship on Third Genders: What does the Gender "Trinary" Do?". American Association of Geographers. AAG Annual Meeting 2018.
Mahapatra, Dhananjay (15 April 2014). "Supreme Court recognizes transgenders as 'third gender'". The Times of India.
Morris, Rosalind (1994). "Three Sexes and Four Sexualities: Redressing the Discourses on Gender and Sexuality in Contemporary Thailand". Positions. 2 (1): 15–43. doi:10.1215/10679847-2-1-15. S2CID 144110028.
Links to related articles
vteHuman sexuality and sexologySexual relationshipphenomena
Aromanticism
Asexuality
Gray asexuality
Demisexuality
Fictosexuality
Bisexuality
Pansexuality
Casual relationship
Casual sex
Celibacy
Celibacy syndrome
Herbivore men
Committed relationship
Conventional sex
Flirting
Free love
Foreplay
Friends with benefits relationships
Heterosexuality
Homosexuality
Hypersexuality
LGBT
Marriage
One-night stand
Polyamory
Promiscuity
Female
Romantic love
Romantic orientation
Queer heterosexuality
Sex life
Sexual abstinence
Sexual orientation
Sexual partner
Single person
Split attraction model
Swinging
Sexual dynamics
Hypergamy
Physical attractiveness
Sexual attraction
Sexual capital
Sexual ethics
Sexual frustration
Sociosexuality
See also
Human female sexuality
Human male sexuality
Right to sexuality
Sexecology
Sexual addiction
Sexual and reproductive health and rights
Sex Addicts Anonymous
Sexual jealousy
Sexual norm
Sex-positive feminism
Sex-positive movement
Sexual revolution
Sexual surrogate
Stanley v. Georgia
vteGender and sexual identitiesGenderidentitiesGenders
Man
Woman
Male
Female
Androgyne
Boi
Cisgender
Cross-dresser
Gender bender
Gender fluidity
Gender neutrality
Gender variance
Masculine of center
Non-binary / genderqueer
Transgender
Akava'ine
Trans man
Trans woman
Fakaleitī
Mak nyah
Rae-rae
Transsexual
Third gendersor Third sexes
Androgynos
Apwint
Bakla
Binabinaaine
Bugis genders
Bissu
Calabai
Calalai
Chibados
Enaree
Eunuch
Galli
Fa'afafine
Fakafifine
Femminiello
Güevedoce
Hijra
Kathoey
Köçek
Koekchuch
Lhamana
Māhū
Mudoko dako
Mukhannathun
Muxe
Nádleehi
Nullo
Palopa
Sipiniq
Sworn virgin
Travesti
Tumtum
Two-spirit
Vakasalewalewa
Winkte
X-gender
SexualorientationidentitiesSexual orientations
Asexual
Bisexual
Heterosexual
Homosexual
Alternative labels
Banjee
Bi-curious
Ex-gay
Ex-ex-gay
Gay
Gay men
Gray asexual
Demisexual
Heteroflexible
Khanith
Lesbian
Non-heterosexual
Pansexual
Polysexual
Queer
Questioning
Same gender loving
Takatāpui
Social aspects
Sociosexuality
Antisexuality
Asociality
Homosociality
Heterosociality
Other
Analloeroticism
Androphilia and gynephilia
Aromanticism
Attraction to transgender people
Kinsey scale
Monosexuality
Postgenderism
Romantic orientation
See also
Gender roles
Intersex
Queer heterosexuality
Sex as a biological variable
Sex and gender distinction
Sexuality and gender identity-based cultures
Social construction of gender
Split attraction model
vteOutline of human sexualityPhysiology and biology
Erection
Insemination
Intersex
Libido
Nocturnal emission
Orgasm
Female and male ejaculation
Pelvic thrust
Pre-ejaculate
Pregnancy
Sexual arousal
Sexual stimulation
Health andeducation
Birth control
Condom
Masters and Johnson
Obesity and sexuality
Reproductive medicine
Andrology
Gynaecology
Urology
Safe sex
Sex education
Sex therapy (PLISSIT model)
Sexology
Sexual dysfunction
Erectile dysfunction
Hypersexuality
Hyposexuality
Sexual medicine
Sexual surrogate
Sexually transmitted infection
Identity and diversity
Gender binary
Gender identity
Men who have sex with men
Sexual identity
Sexual orientation
Women who have sex with women
Law
Age of consent
Criminal transmission of HIV
Child sexual abuse
Incest
Indecent exposure
Obscenity
Sexual abuse
Cybersex trafficking
Rape
Sex trafficking
Sexual assault
Sexual harassment
Sexual misconduct
Sexual slavery
Sexual violence
History
Blue Movie
Counterculture of the 1960s
Feminist sex wars
Golden Age of Porn
History of erotic depictions
Sexual revolution
Relationships and society
Anarchism and love/sex
Extramarital sex
Family planning
Flirting
Free love
Marriage
Modesty
Polyamory
Premarital sex
Promiscuity
Romance
Sex-positive movement
Sexual abstinence
Sexual addiction
Sexual attraction
Sexual capital
Sexual ethics
Sexual objectification
Sexual slang
Split attraction model
By country
Ancient Rome
China
India
Japan
Philippines
South Korea
United States
Sexual activities
Conventional sex
Anal sex
Bareback
BDSM
Child sex
Creampie
Edging
Erotic sexual denial
Fetishism
Fingering
Fisting
Gang bang
Group sex
Masturbation
Mechanics of sex
Nipple stimulation
Non-penetrative sex
Facial
Foot fetishism
Footjob
Forced orgasm
Frot
Handjob
Mammary intercourse
Sumata
Oral sex
69
Anilingus
Cunnilingus
Fellatio
Irrumatio
Paraphilia
Pompoir
Quickie
Sex in space
Sex positions
Sexual fantasy
Sexual fetishism
Sexual intercourse
Foreplay
Sexual penetration
Swinging
Tribadism
Urethral intercourse
Urolagnia
Virtual sex
Cybersex
Erotic talk
Wet T-shirt contest
Sex industry
Adult video games
Erotica
Pornography
Film actor
Prostitution
Sacred
Survival sex
Red-light district
Sex museum
Sex shop
Sex tourism
Child
Female
Sex worker
Sex toy
doll
Strip club
Webcam model
Religion andsexuality
Buddhism and Hinduism
Tantric sex
Christian demonology
Clerical celibacy
Buddhist monasticism
Catholic Church
Hindu monasticism
Jain monasticism
Daoism
Islam
Judaism
LGBT people
LGBT-affirming religious groups
Mormonism
Sacred prostitution
Ancient Greece
Thelema
Sex magic
 Human sexuality portal
vteTransgender topicsGenderidentities
Androgyne
Gender bender
Masculine of center
Non-binary (or genderqueer)
Genderfluid
Third gender
Akava'ine
Bakla
Bissu
Calabai
Fa'afafine
Fakaleitī
Femminiello
Hijra
Kathoey
Khanith
Koekchuch
Māhū
Maknyah
Mukhannathun
Muxe
Sworn virgin
Takatāpui
Travesti
Two-spirit
Winkte
Trans man
Trans woman
Transsexual
Health careand medicine
Gender dysphoria
in children
Hormone therapy
feminizing
masculinizing
Surgery
to female
to male
Legal status
Pregnancy
Rights
Gender self-identification
Legal gender
Legal recognition of non-binary gender
Legal status
Marriage
Rights movement
Rights organizations
Toilets
bathroom bills
unisex
Yogyakarta Principles
Discrimination
Against non-binary people
Against transgender men
Anti-gender movement
Asylum seekers
Cissexism
Inequality
Prison
Transphobia
Transmisogyny
Violence
against transgender people
genocide
murders
trans panic
Societyand culture
Christianity
LGBT-related films
Events
Awareness Week
Day of Remembrance
Day of Visibility
March
Non-binary People's Day
LGBT
Flags
History
Media portrayals
fictional characters
film and television
People
Pornography
Publications
Sexuality
Sports
Youth
more
Theory andconcepts
Androphilia
Blanchard's typology
Causes of gender incongruence
Cisgender / cissexual
Cross-dressing
Gender binary
Gender diversity
Gender expression
Gender identity
Gynephilia
Gender variance
Postgenderism
Questioning
Transfeminism
Transmedicalism
Transmisogyny
Transvestism
By countryHistory
Australia
Cambodia
China
Finland
India
Iran
Russia
Singapore
United Kingdom
United States
legal
People
China
ancient Egypt
France [fr]
South Korea
Singapore
Rights
Argentina
Australia
re Kevin
Brazil
Canada
2016 bill C-16
Germany
India
2014 Bill
2019 Act
Kerala
Tamil Nadu
Iran
Ireland
New Zealand
Pakistan
2017 bill
South Africa
2003 Act
South Korea
United Kingdom
2004 act
United States
legal history
title IX
See also
Detransition
Gender
Intersex
LGBT
Sex assignment
Sex and gender distinction
Sexual orientation
Transition
Outline
Timeline
Category
 Transgender portal
vte Bisexuality Sexual identities
Bisexual
Bicurious
Heteroflexible / Homoflexible
Monosexual
Pansexual
Polysexual
History
In the United States
Media portrayals
Politics
Study
Theory
Journal of Bisexuality
Kinsey scale
Klein grid
Female sexuality
Male sexuality
Attitudes
Biphobia
Chic
Erasure
Lesbian until graduation
Community
Anything That Moves
BECAUSE
Bi Community News
BiCon (UK)
BiFest
Bisexual Awareness Week
Celebrate Bisexuality Day
Flag
International Conference on Bisexuality
Transcending Boundaries Conference
Organizations
American Institute of Bisexuality
Bay Area Bi+ & Pan Network
Bialogue
BiNet USA
Bisexual Resource Center
National Bisexual Liberation Group
New York Area Bisexual Network
Lists
Lists of bisexual people
LGBT portal
Sexuality portal
vteLesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) topics
Academic fields
Discourse
LGBT topics in education
Gender studies
Lesbian feminism
LGBT linguistics
LGBT literature
Queer studies
Queer theory
Transfeminism
Community
Culture
Anthems
Bars
Gay
Lesbian
Bisexual community
Coming out
Community centers
Cross-dressing
Drag king
Drag queen
Film festivals
Gay village
Gay-friendly
Icons
Lesbian utopia
Literature
Music
Organizations
Periodicals
Pets
Pride
Pride Month
Pride parade
Queerplatonic relationships
Religious groups
Rodeos
Same-sex relationships
Slang
Slogans
Sports
Takatāpui
Tourism
Symbols
Black triangle
Labrys
Lambda
Pink triangle
Rainbow plaque
Pride flags
Bear
Bisexual
Gay flag of South Africa
Gay men
Intersex
Leather
Lesbian
Pansexual
Rainbow
Rainbow crossing
Transgender
Gender identities
Sexual identities
Sexual diversities
Gender identity
Androgyny
Boi
Cisgender
Gender bender
Khanith
Man
Non-binary / genderqueer
Queer heterosexuality
Transgender
Akava'ine
Trans man
Transsexual
Trans woman
Mak nyah
Woman
Womxn
Womyn
Third sex / Third gender
Bakla
Balkan sworn virgins
Bissu
Fa'afafine
Fakaleitī
Femminiello
Hijra
Kathoey
Köçek
Māhū
Mukhannathun
Muxe
Travesti
Two-spirit
Winkte
Sexual identitiesSexual orientations
Asexual
Bisexual
Homosexual
Aromanticism
Asexuality
Gray asexuality
Demisexuality
Attraction to transgender people
Banjee
Bi-curious
Gay
Gay men
Heteroflexible
Lesbian
Monosexual
Non-heterosexual
Pansexual
Queer
Questioning
Romantic orientation
Same gender loving
Sexual minority
Tom / Dee
Related
Detransition
Erotic target location error
Ex-gay
Ex-ex-gay
Female
Gender and sexual diversity
Gender binary
Gender essentialism
Gender expression
Gender neutrality
Gender roles
Hermaphrodite
Human female sexuality
Human male sexuality
Intersex
Androgynos
Tumtum
Male
Sexuality and gender identity-based cultures
Straight ally
Tomboy
HistoryLGBT history
History of homosexuality
History of gay men in the United States
History of lesbianism
LGBT history timeline
Migration
Social movements
History of Christianity and homosexuality
History of same-sex unions
Pederasty
Category:LGBT history
Pre-modern era
Adelphopoiesis
Ancient Egypt
Ancient Greece
Ancient Peru
Ancient Rome
Medieval Europe
16th to 19th century
Molly house
First homosexual movement
Karl Heinrich Ulrichs
20th century
Handkerchief code
Johns Committee
Sea queens
Stonewall riots
Festival of Light action
White Night riots
Florida orange juice boycott
21st century
Timeline of same-sex marriage
LGBT culture in Miami
LGBT culture in New York City
Stonewall National Monument
2020s anti-LGBT movement in the United States
Rights and legal issues
LGBT rights by country or territory
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania
List of LGBT rights articles by region
LGBT rights topics
Adoption
Capital punishment for homosexuality
Civil unions and partnerships
Criminalization of homosexuality
decriminalization
Hate crime laws
Intersex human rights
Military service
Parenting
Assisted reproduction
Same-sex marriage
Timeline
List of couples
Socialism
Transgender rights
United Nations/Yogyakarta Principles
La Francophonie
Commonwealth of Nations
LGBT rights movements
Homophile
Gay liberation
LGBT rights groups
LGBT rights activists
Pink capitalism
Separatism
Gay
Lesbian
Sexual orientation — Medicine, science and sexology
Biology
Birth order
Demographics
Environment
Homosexuality and psychology
Homosexuality in the DSM
Kinsey scale
Klein Grid
Neuroscience
Prenatal hormones
Sexual inversion
Sexual orientation change efforts
Conversion therapy
Split attraction model
Sexual orientation identity
Timeline of sexual orientation and medicine
Societal attitudes
Prejudice
Violence
Societal attitudes
Amatonormativity
Anti-LGBT rhetoric
Heteronormativity
Heteropatriarchy
Homonationalism
Pinkwashing
Gay panic defense
LGBT rights opposition
LGBT stereotypes
LGBT suicides
Suicide among LGBT youth
Homosexuality and religion
Transgender people and religion
Queerbaiting
Prejudice and discrimination
Arophobia
Acephobia
Anti-gender movement
AIDS stigma
Biphobia
Gayphobia
Heterosexism
Homophobia
Liberal homophobia
Lesbophobia
Non-binary discrimination
Racism
Riddle scale
SPLC-designated list of anti-LGBT U.S. hate groups
Transmisogyny
Transphobia
Violence against LGBT people
Corrective rape
Death penalty for homosexuality
Gay bashing
History of violence in the UK
History of violence in the US
Persecution of homosexuals in Nazi Germany
Significant acts of violence against LGBT people
Trans bashing
Unlawfully killed transgender people
 LGBT portal
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Third_gender&oldid=1173106238"
Categories: AndrogynyThird genderGender identityGender systemsIntersex in societyIntersex rightsTransgenderHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 Japanese-language sources (ja)CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)CS1 maint: location missing publisherUse dmy dates from November 2021Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataWikipedia pending changes protected pagesArticles containing Neapolitan-language textArticles containing Māori-language textPages using sidebar with the child parameterAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2022Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from August 2021Articles with unsourced statements from August 2021All Wikipedia articles needing clarificationWikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2018All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from August 2021All articles that may contain original researchArticles that may contain original research from August 2021Articles needing additional references from June 2021All articles needing additional referencesArticles with unsourced statements from July 2023Articles containing Japanese-language textArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from May 2013Articles containing Arabic-language textAll articles with vague or ambiguous timeVague or ambiguous time from December 2022Articles containing Inuktitut-language textArticles with unsourced statements from August 2023Articles containing Cook Islands Māori-language textArticles containing Lakota-language text
 This page was last edited on 31 August 2023, at 09:07 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width