Event related brain potentials (ERPs) Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Event related brain potentials (ERPs)172 FollowersRecent papers in Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Top PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleNeurophysiological Evidence for Morphological   Underspecification in German Strong Adjective InflectionIn the present study we investigate the relevance of the concept of underspecified inflection markers for the processing of language in the human brain. Our findings strongly support underspecification: An ERP-component related to... moreIn the present study we investigate the relevance of the concept of underspecified inflection markers for the processing of language in the human brain. Our findings strongly support underspecification: An ERP-component related to morpho-syntactic integration (viz., left anterior negativity; LAN) was modulated by violations of Specificity versus Compatibility.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gereon Müller•  4  Morphology (Languages And Linguistics), Morphology and Syntax, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), UnderspecificationPredictive coding and the Uncanny Valley hypothesis: Evidence from electrical brain activitySave to LibraryDownloadby Chris Berka•  10  Uncanny Valley, Social Neuroscience, Social Robotics, Cognitive NeuroscienceNeural Correlates of Deductive Reasoning: An ERP Study with the Wason Selection TaskThe Wason Selection Task (WST) is a well-known test of reasoning in which one turns over cards to test a rule about the two faces. Modifications were made to the WST to enable more direct and analytical investigation of reasoning... moreThe Wason Selection Task (WST) is a well-known test of reasoning in which one turns over cards to test a rule about the two faces. Modifications were made to the WST to enable more direct and analytical investigation of reasoning processes. The modifications included extensive training to reduce variations in task interpretation, isolation of working memory in the decision phase, a separate rule for each card and variations in the form of the rule (number-letter as well as letter-number), separate scoring for each card, and inclusion of control cards that could be recognized by features without relational processing. The cognitive complexity of each card was also analyzed to enable investigation of this factor. Behavioral and event-related potential data were recorded. Negative cards differed from positive cards and control cards were differentiated from cards involved in inferences. The N2 component differentiated the negative conditions (not-P, not-Q cards) from the positive conditions (P, Q cards). The P3 component was largest for control and P cards (the simpler conditions). The late slow wave tended to show more sustained processing of not-P, not-Q and Q cards and was little influenced by the simpler control and P cards. Effects were interpreted in terms of cognitive complexity. In particular, the negative conditions had a larger N2 responses than the positive conditions, reflecting greater cognitive complexity of the former and their sustained processing.Save to LibraryDownloadby Timothy Cutmore and +1Brentyn Ramm•  4  Deductive reasoning, Cognitive Complexity, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Wason Selection TaskInterlingual Homophones: ERPsSave to LibraryDownloadby Cheryl Frenck-Mestre•  3  Second Language Acquisition, Psycholinguistics, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Frontal midline theta reflects anxiety and cognitive control:  Meta-analytic evidenceEvidence from imaging and anatomical studies suggests that the midcingulate cortex (MCC) is a dynamic hub lying at the interface of affect and cognition. In particular, this neural system appears to integrate information about conflict... moreEvidence from imaging and anatomical studies suggests that the midcingulate cortex (MCC) is a dynamic hub lying at the interface of affect and cognition. In particular, this neural system appears to integrate information about conflict and punishment in order to optimize behavior in the face of action-outcome uncertainty. In a series of meta-analyses, we show how recent human electrophysiological research provides compelling evidence that frontal-midline theta signals reflecting MCC activity are moderated by anxiety and predict adaptive behavioral adjustments. These findings underscore the importance of frontal theta activity to a broad spectrum of control operations. We argue that frontal-midline theta provides a neurophysiologically plausible mechanism for optimally adjusting behavior to uncertainty, a hallmark of situations that elicit anxiety and demand cognitive control. These observations compel a new perspective on the mechanisms guiding motivated learning and behavior and provide a framework for understanding the role of the MCC in temperament and psychopathology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Shackman•  105  Psychology, Biological Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Cognitive Behavioral TherapyNEURALNA ELEKTROFIZIOLOŠKA AKTIVNOST PRI KOGNITIVNOJ KONTROLI NA POČETKU I KRAJU MLAĐE ODRASLE DOBIKognitivna kontrola odnosi se na sposobnost integracije nekoliko različitih procesa s ciljem prilagodbe trenutnim zahtjevima, a njezina se učinkovitost poboljšava tijekom razvoja. Cilj ovoga istraživanja bio je ispitati razlike u... moreKognitivna kontrola odnosi se na sposobnost integracije nekoliko različitih procesa s ciljem prilagodbe trenutnim zahtjevima, a njezina se učinkovitost poboljšava tijekom razvoja. Cilj ovoga istraživanja bio je ispitati razlike u neuralnoj elektrofiziološkoj aktivnosti u podlozi procesa kognitivne kontrole između kasnih adolescenata (19 – 21 godinu) i mlađih odraslih (28 – 44 godine). Ukupno je sudjelovalo 89 dobrovoljaca. Istraživanje je provedeno individualno u dva dijela. Prvi je susret uključivao predtestiranje (KNT, EPQ) i uvježbavanje eksperimentalnog zadatka. Na drugom su susretu sudionici rješavali modificirani Stroopov zadatak s četiri boje, pri čemu je bilježena neuralna elektrofiziološka aktivnost, bihevioralni odgovori i vrijeme reakcije.Analiza srednjih amplitudi komponenata kognitivnih evociranih potencijala pokazala je statistički značajne razlike između kasnih adolescenata i mlađih odraslih. Kod komponente N200 kasni su adolescenti općenito imali manje negativne amplitude od mlađih odraslih. Kod komponenti P300 i N450 razlike su bile prisutne samo u nekongruentnom uvjetu, pri čemu su mlađi odrasli imali negativnije vrijednosti amplituda. Točnije, dobivena je značajna interakcija uvjeta i dobi, te je kod mlađih odraslih vidljivo smanjenje pozitivnosti komponente P300 i povećanje negativnosti komponente N450 u nekongruentnom u odnosu na kongruentni uvjet, dok se kod adolescenata vrijednosti amplituda komponenti u različitim uvjetima zadatka nisu razlikovale. Osim toga, kasni su adolescenti u nekongruentnom uvjetu imali značajno više pogrešaka od mlađih odraslih.Rezultati ukazuju na to da procesi kognitivne kontrole u kasnoj adolescenciji još uvijek nisu na razini odraslih, što može sugerirati da se kortikalni putovi u podlozi istraživanih komponenata nastavljaju usavršavati tijekom kasne adolescencije. Ključne riječi: kognitivna kontrola, kasni adolescent, mlađi odrasli, produljeni razvoj mozga, kognitivni evocirani potencijali (KEP)Save to LibraryDownloadby Patricia Tomac•  4  Cognitive Control, Cognitive Neuroscience, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Young AdultPunctuation and Implicit Prosody in Silent Reading: An ERP Study Investigating English Garden-Path SentencesThis study presents the first two ERP reading studies of comma-induced effects of covert (implicit) prosody on syntactic parsing decisions in English. The first experiment used a balanced 2 × 2 design in which the presence/absence of... moreThis study presents the first two ERP reading studies of comma-induced effects of covert (implicit) prosody on syntactic parsing decisions in English. The first experiment used a balanced 2 × 2 design in which the presence/absence of commas determined plausibility (e.g., John, said Mary, was the nicest boy at the party vs. John said Mary was the nicest boy at the party). The second reading experiment replicated a previous auditory study investigating the role of overt prosodic boundaries in closure ambiguities (Pauker et al., 2011). In both experiments, commas reliably elicited CPS components and generally played a dominant role in determining parsing decisions in the face of input ambiguity. The combined set of findings provides further evidence supporting the claim that mechanisms subserving speech processing play an active role during silent reading.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten  Steinhauer•  9  Speech Prosody, Prosody-Syntax, Prosody, Event-Related PotentialsElectrophysiological responses to argument structure violations in healthy adults and individuals with agrammatic aphasiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Aneta  Kielar•  7  Languages and Linguistics, Aging, EEG, Sentence processing (Languages And Linguistics)Neural responses towards a speaker's feeling of (un)knowingDuring interpersonal communication, listeners must rapidly evaluate verbal and vocal cues to arrive at an integrated meaning about the utterance and about the speaker, including a representation of the speaker's 'feeling of knowing'... moreDuring interpersonal communication, listeners must rapidly evaluate verbal and vocal cues to arrive at an integrated meaning about the utterance and about the speaker, including a representation of the speaker's 'feeling of knowing' (i.e., how confident they are in relation to the utterance). In this study, we investigated the time course and neural responses underlying a listener's ability to evaluate speaker confidence from combined verbal and vocal cues. We recorded real-time brain responses as listeners judged statements conveying three levels of confidence with the speaker's voice (confident, close-to-confident, unconfident), which were preceded by meaning-congruent lexical phrases (e.g. I am positive, Most likely, Perhaps). Event-related potentials to utterances with combined lexical and vocal cues about speaker confidence were compared to responses elicited by utterances without the verbal phrase in a previous study (Jiang and Pell, 2015). Utterances with combined cues about speaker confidence elicited reduced, N1, P2 and N400 responses when compared to corresponding utterances without the phrase. When compared to confident statements, close-to-confident and unconfident expressions elicited reduced N1 and P2 responses and a late positivity from 900 to 1250 ms; unconfident and close-to-confident expressions were differentiated later in the 1250–1600 ms time window. The effect of lexical phrases on confidence processing differed for male and female participants, with evidence that female listeners incorporated information from the verbal and vocal channels in a distinct manner. Individual differences in trait empathy and trait anxiety also moderated neural responses during confidence processing. Our findings showcase the cognitive processing mechanisms and individual factors governing how we infer a speaker's mental (knowledge) state from the speech signal.Save to LibraryDownloadby Xiaoming Jiang•  6  Speech Prosody, Pragmatics, Nonverbal Communication, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Testing theories of irony processing using eye-tracking and ERPsNot much is known about how people comprehend ironic utterances, and to date, most studies have simply compared processing of ironic vs. non-ironic statements. A key aspect of the graded salience hypothesis, distinguishing it from other... moreNot much is known about how people comprehend ironic utterances, and to date, most studies have simply compared processing of ironic vs. non-ironic statements. A key aspect of the graded salience hypothesis, distinguishing it from other accounts (such as the standard pragmatic view and direct access view), is that it predicts differences between processing of familiar and unfamiliar ironies. Specifically, if an ironic utterance is familiar, then the ironic interpretation should be available without the need for extra inferential processes, whereas for unfamiliar ironies, the literal interpretation would be computed first, and a mismatch with context would lead to a re-interpretation of the statement as being ironic. We recorded participants’ eye movements while they were reading (Experiment 1), and electrical brain activity while they were listening to (Experiment 2), familiar and unfamiliar ironies compared to non-ironic controls. Results showed disruption to eye movements, and an N400-like effect for unfamiliar ironies only, supporting the predictions of the graded salience hypothesis. In addition, in Experiment 2, a late positivity was found for both familiar and unfamiliar ironic materials, compared to non-ironic controls. We interpret this positivity as reflecting ongoing conflict between the literal and ironic interpretations of the utterance.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruth Filik•  20  Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Languages and LinguisticsCross-Modal Priming Effect of Rhythm on Visual Word Recognition and Its Relationships to Music Aptitude and Reading AchievementRecent evidence suggests the existence of shared neural resources for rhythm processing in language and music. Such overlaps could be the basis of the facilitating effect of regular musical rhythm on spoken word processing previously... moreRecent evidence suggests the existence of shared neural resources for rhythm processing in language and music. Such overlaps could be the basis of the facilitating effect of regular musical rhythm on spoken word processing previously reported for typical children and adults, as well as adults with Parkinson’s disease and children with developmental language disorders. The present study builds upon these previous findings by examining whether non-linguistic rhythmic priming also influences visual word processing, and the extent to which such cross-modal priming effect of rhythm is related to individual differences in musical aptitude and reading skills. An electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded while participants listened to a rhythmic tone prime, followed by a visual target word with a stress pattern that either matched or mismatched the rhythmic structure of the auditory prime. Participants were also administered standardized assessments of musical aptitude and reading achievement. Event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by target words with a mismatching stress pattern showed an increased fronto-central negativity. Additionally, the size of the negative effect correlated with individual differences in musical rhythm aptitude and reading comprehension skills. Results support the existence of shared neurocognitive resources for linguistic and musical rhythm processing, and have important implications for the use of rhythm-based activities for reading interventions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tess S Fotidzis•  5  Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Implicit Prosody, Language and Musical Aptitude, Reading achievementEvent-related potentials (ERPs) in second language research: a brief introduction to the technique, a selected review, and an invitation to reconsider critical periods in L2This article provides a selective overview of recent event-related brain potential (ERP) studies in L2 morpho-syntax, demonstrating that the ERP evidence supporting the critical period hypothesis (CPH) may be less compelling than... moreThis article provides a selective overview of recent event-related brain potential (ERP) studies in L2 morpho-syntax, demonstrating that the ERP evidence supporting the critical period hypothesis (CPH) may be less compelling than previously thought. The article starts with a general introduction to ERP methodology and language-related ERP profiles in native speakers. The second section presents early ERP studies supporting the CPH, discusses some of their methodological problems, and follows up with data from more recent studies avoiding these problems. It is concluded that well-controlled ERP studies support the convergence hypothesis, according to which L2 learners initially differ from native speakers and then converge on native-like neurocognitive processing mechanisms. The fact that ERPs in late L2 learners at high levels of proficiency are often indistinguishable from those of native speakers suggests that age-of-acquisition effects in SLA are not primarily driven by maturational constraints.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten  Steinhauer•  2  Second Language Acquisition, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Recent EEG and ERP findings substance abusersSave to LibraryDownloadby Natalie Ceballos•  7  Alcohol Studies, EEG, Event-Related Potentials, MarijuanaThe Feeling of Another's Knowing: How " Mixed Messages " in Speech Are ReconciledListeners often encounter conflicting verbal and vocal cues about the speaker's feeling of knowing; these " mixed messages " can reflect online shifts in one's mental state as they utter a statement, or serve different social-pragmatic... moreListeners often encounter conflicting verbal and vocal cues about the speaker's feeling of knowing; these " mixed messages " can reflect online shifts in one's mental state as they utter a statement, or serve different social-pragmatic goals of the speaker. Using a cross-splicing paradigm, we investigated how conflicting cues about a speaker's feeling of (un)knowing change one's perception. Listeners rated the confidence of speakers of utterances containing an initial verbal phrase congruent or incongruent with vocal cues in a subsequent statement, while their brain potentials were tracked. Different forms of conflicts modulated the perceived confidence of the speaker, the extent to which was stronger for female listeners. A confident phrase followed by an unconfident voice enlarged an anteriorly maximized negativity for female listeners and late positivity for male listeners, suggesting that mental representations of another's feeling of knowing in face of this conflict were hampered by increased demands of integration for females and increased demands on updating for males. An unconfident phrase followed by a confident voice elicited a delayed sustained positivity (from 900 ms) in female participants only, suggesting females generated inferences to moderate the conflicting message about speaker knowledge. We highlight ways that verbal and vocal cues are real-time integrated to access a speaker's feeling of (un)knowing, while arguing that females are more sensitive to the social relevance of conflicting speaker cues.Save to LibraryDownloadby Xiaoming Jiang•  5  Speech Prosody, Pragmatics, Metacognition, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Intertrial coherence and causal interaction among independent EEG componentsOver the past few years there has been an increased interest in studying the underlying neural mechanism of attention and cognitive brain activity. This paper aims towards identifying and analyzing distinct responses in an auditory... moreOver the past few years there has been an increased interest in studying the underlying neural mechanism of attention and cognitive brain activity. This paper aims towards identifying and analyzing distinct responses in an auditory working memory paradigm, as independent components with variable latency, frequency and phase characteristics. The event-related nature of components (either phase or non-phase-locked) over multiple trials is thoroughly examined through intertrial coherence measures. Furthermore, the functional coupling of independent components is investigated through the concept of partial directed coherence depicted as a directed graph. Using these tools, the paper compares issues of activation, connectivity and directionality in the synchronization maps of two populations, of control and Alzheimer's subjects. The results on real data from an oddball experiment verify and further enhance the findings of previous studies and illustrate the potential of the proposed analysis framework.► We present a complete framework for studying even related brain dynamics. ► For this purpose an auditory oddball experiment (P300 response) is used. ► We introduce measures for the evaluation of the phase-related nature of components. ► We use the PDC measure to consider the dynamic synchronization of components. ► The synchronization graph of evoked and induced components is thus derived.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kostas Michalopoulos•  2  EEG Signal Processing, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)SORDITÀ, IMPIANTO COCLEARE E MATURAZIONE DELLE VIE UDITIVE CENTRALI: UN QUADRO CRITICOQuesto lavoro si propone di fare una rassegna critica degli studi che, all’interno della prospettiva neurocognitiva, hanno indagato lo sviluppo delle abilità uditive in bambini con ipoacusia neurosensoriale profonda sottoposti ad impianto... moreQuesto lavoro si propone di fare una rassegna critica degli studi che, all’interno della prospettiva neurocognitiva, hanno indagato lo sviluppo delle abilità uditive in bambini con ipoacusia neurosensoriale profonda sottoposti ad impianto cocleare. In parallelo, viene brevemente discusso il problema dell’acquisizione della lingua dei segni in bambini impiantati. I dati a disposizione dimostrano che l’impianto cocleare, sebbene non sostituisca completamente le funzionalità originarie del nervo uditivo, è in grato di riattivare la plasticità della corteccia uditiva e permettere una corretta identificazione e discriminazione dei suoni della propria lingua e quindi la sua normale acquisizione. Tuttavia, perché l’impianto cocleare abbia successo la sua applicazione deve avvenire quanto più precocemente possibile (e comunque non oltre i 3 anni di età). Infine, sebbene il quadro scientifico non sia ancora chiaro, sembrerebbe che l’utilizzo parallelo della lingua dei segni nei bambini impiantati possa essere un vantaggio in quanto lo sviluppo di un sistema bilingue attiva in modo integrato diverse aree cerebrali producendo abilità adattive migliori.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mirko Grimaldi•  4  Speech-Language Pathology/ Communication Disorders, Sound Perception and Speech Recognition, Cochlear Implant, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Confusing similar words: ERP correlates of lexical-semantic processing in first language attrition and late second language acquisitionA B S T R A C T First language (L1) attrition is a socio-linguistic circumstance where second language (L2) learning coincides with changes in exposure and use of the native-L1. Attriters often report experiencing a decline in... moreA B S T R A C T First language (L1) attrition is a socio-linguistic circumstance where second language (L2) learning coincides with changes in exposure and use of the native-L1. Attriters often report experiencing a decline in automaticity or proficiency in their L1 after a prolonged period in the L2 environment, while their L2 proficiency continues to strengthen. Investigating the neurocognitive correlates of attrition alongside those of late L2 acquisition addresses the question of whether the brain mechanisms underlying both L1 and L2 processing are strongly determined by proficiency, irrespective of whether the language was acquired from birth or in adulthood. Using event-related-potentials (ERPs), we examined lexical-semantic processing in Italian L1 attriters, compared to adult Italian L2 learners and to Italian monolingual native speakers. We contrasted the processing of classical lexical-semantic violations (Mismatch condition) with sentences that were equally semantically implausible but arguably trickier, as the target-noun was " swapped " with an orthographic neighbor that differed only in its final vowel and gender-marking morpheme (e.g., cappello (hat) vs. cappella (chapel)). Our aim was to determine whether sentences with such " confusable nouns " (Swap condition) would be processed as semantically correct by late L2 learners and L1 attriters, especially for those individuals with lower Italian proficiency scores. We found that lower-proficiency Italian speakers did not show significant N400 effects for Swap violations relative to correct sentences, regardless of whether Italian was the L1 or the L2. Crucially, N400 response profiles followed a continuum of " nativelikeness " predicted by Italian proficiency scores – high-proficiency attriters and high-proficiency Italian learners were indistinguishable from native controls, whereas attriters and L2 learners in the lower-proficiency range showed significantly reduced N400 effects for " Swap " errors. Importantly, attriters and late L2 learners did not differ in their N400 responses when they belonged to the same proficiency subgroup. Attriters also showed an enhanced P600 response to both kinds of lexical-semantic anomalies, which we discuss as reflecting increased conflict-monitoring and conscious " second thought " processes specifically in attriters. Our findings provide some of the first ERP evidence of attrition effects, and are compatible with accounts of ongoing neuroplasticity for language in adulthood. Proficiency, rather than age-of-acquisition, seems to be the key factor in modulating certain neurocognitive responses, not only within L2 learners but also in L1 attriters.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten  Steinhauer and +1Kristina Kasparian•  4  Event related brain potentials (ERPs), N400, L1 ATTRITION, P600Emotion down-regulation diminishes cognitive control: A neurophysiological investigationSave to LibraryDownloadby Blair Saunders•  6  Emotion, Cognitive Control, EEG, Emotion RegulationEliciting ERP Components for Morphosyntactic Agreement Mismatches in Perfectly Grammatical SentencesThe present event-related brain potential (ERP) study investigates mechanisms underlying the processing of morphosyntactic information during real-time auditory sentence comprehension in French. Employing an auditory-visual... moreThe present event-related brain potential (ERP) study investigates mechanisms underlying the processing of morphosyntactic information during real-time auditory sentence comprehension in French. Employing an auditory-visual sentence-picture matching paradigm, we investigated two types of anomalies using entirely grammatical auditory stimuli: (i) semantic mismatches between visually presented actions and spoken verbs, and (ii) number mismatches between visually presented agents and corresponding morphosyntactic number markers in the spoken sentences (determiners, pronouns in liaison contexts, and verb-final "inflection"). We varied the type and amount of number cues available in each sentence using two manipulations. First, we manipulated the verb type, by using verbs whose number cue was audible through subject (clitic) pronoun liaison (liaison verbs) as well as verbs whose number cue was audible on the verb ending (consonant-final verbs). Second, we manipulated the pre-verbal context: each sentence was preceded either by a neutral context providing no number cue, or by a subject noun phrase containing a subject number cue on the determiner. Twenty-two French-speaking adults participated in the experiment. While sentence judgment accuracy was high, participants' ERP responses were modulated by the type of mismatch encountered. Lexico-semantic mismatches on the verb elicited the expected N400 and additional negativities. Determiner number mismatches elicited early anterior negativities, N400s and P600s. Verb number mismatches elicited biphasic N400-P600 patterns. However, pronoun + verb liaison mismatches yielded this pattern only in the plural, while consonant-final changes did so in the singular and the plural. Furthermore, an additional sustained frontal negativity was observed in two of the four verb mismatch conditions: plural liaison and singular consonant-final forms. This study highlights the different contributions of number cues in oral language processing and is the first to investigate whether auditory-visual mismatches can elicit errors reminiscent of outright grammatical errors. Our results emphasize that neurocognitive mechanisms underlying number agreement in French are modulated by the type of cue that is used to identify auditory-visual mismatches.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten  Steinhauer and +1Phaedra Royle•  6  Languages and Linguistics, Event-Related Potentials, Brain, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Saliency Detection as a Reactive Process: Unexpected Sensory Events Evoke Corticomuscular CouplingSurvival in a fast-changing environment requires animals not only to detect unexpected sensory events, but also to react. In humans, these salient sensory events generate large electrocortical responses, which have been traditionally... moreSurvival in a fast-changing environment requires animals not only to detect unexpected sensory events, but also to react. In humans, these salient sensory events generate large electrocortical responses, which have been traditionally interpreted within the sensory domain. Here we describe a basic physiological mechanism coupling saliency-related cortical responses with motor output. In four experiments conducted on 70 healthy participants, we show that salient substartle sensory stimuli modulate isometric force exertion by human participants, and that this modulation is tightly coupled with electrocortical activity elicited by the same stimuli. We obtained four main results. First, the force modulation follows a complex triphasic pattern consisting of alternating decreases and increases of force, time-locked to stimulus onset. Second, this modulation occurs regardless of the sensory modality of the eliciting stimulus. Third, the magnitude of the force modulation is predicted by the amplitude of the electrocortical activity elicited by the same stimuli. Fourth, both neural and motor effects are not reflexive but depend on contextual factors. Together, these results indicate that sudden environmental stimuli have an immediate effect on motor processing , through a tight corticomuscular coupling. These observations suggest that saliency detection is not merely perceptive but reactive, preparing the animal for subsequent appropriate actions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giacomo Novembre and +2Rory BufacchiMarina Kilintari•  18  Prediction-based Decisions & Planning, Action Research, Perception-Action, PredictionERP, emotional memory and OCD intensitySave to LibraryDownloadby Marc  Lavoie•  9  Affective Neuroscience, Cognitive Neuroscience, Biological Psychiatry, Event-Related PotentialsError-related negativities during spelling judgments expose orthographic knowledgeSave to LibraryDownloadby Lindsay Harris•  4  Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Psycholinguistics/Cognitive Science (esp. Working Memory and Language)Repetitive TMS over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex modulates the error positivity: An ERP studyError processing is a critical step towards an efficient adaptation of our behavior to achieve a goal. Little research has been devoted to investigate the contribution of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in supporting error... moreError processing is a critical step towards an efficient adaptation of our behavior to achieve a goal. Little research has been devoted to investigate the contribution of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in supporting error processing. In this study, the causal relationship of the DLPFC in error commission was examined by means of a repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation protocol (rTMS). Specifically, the effects of an inhibitory protocol were assessed by examining the electroencephalographic signal recorded during the execution of a Go/ No-Go task. To this aim, a group of 15 healthy young participants performed a three-session study. At each session, either the right DLPFC, the left DLPFC, or the Vertex (control site) were stimulated, for 20 min at 1 Hz. Immediately after the stimulation, participants performed the task. Although no behavioral effects of rTMS emerged, the analysis of event-related electric potentials (ERPs) revealed that the amplitude of a positive potential evoked by error commission, the error positivity (Pe), was reduced after the stimulation of the left DLPFC. On the contrary, the earlier error-related negativity component (ERN) was not affected. These results revealed that the left DLPFC intervenes at later stages of error-related processes. We could speculate that its role is specifically linked to error awareness.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonino Vallesi•  7  Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation, Event-Related Potentials, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Error AwarenessProcessing verb-noun compound words in Spanish: Evidence from event-related potentials View supplementary materialStudies regarding compound word processing have centred on Noun–noun words, which exhibit endocentricity. Nevertheless, other compound types, such as Spanish Verb–noun compounds, exhibit morphological particularities such as... moreStudies regarding compound word processing have centred on Noun–noun words, which exhibit endocentricity. Nevertheless, other compound types, such as Spanish Verb–noun compounds, exhibit morphological particularities such as exocentricity, verb argument structure, and metaphorical features, increasing the attributes that may influence compound processing. We analysed whether these traits influenced Spanish Verb–noun compound processing. A lexical decision task was administrated with electroencephalogram (EEG) recording. Following differences in argument structure and metaphorical traits, three compound types were presented: Agentives, Locatives, and Metaphoricals. Locatives were responded worse and slower than Agentives. Metaphoricals elicited increases in the P300 and P600-like components. Thus, verb argument structure and metaphorical processes influence Spanish Verb–noun compound processing. Similarly to endocentric English Noun–noun compounds, processing Spanish Verb–noun compounds involves specific conceptual operations. These conceptual combinations appear to be determined by the projection of verb argument structure and the mapping and assignation of thematic roles.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mercedes Guemes and +1Alejandro Wainselboim•  3  Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Processing of Compound Words, Verb Argument StructureEarly integration of vowel and pitch processing: A mismatch negativity studySave to LibraryDownloadby John F Connolly•  24  Engineering, Music, Music and Language, Phonetics音樂對空間認知行為與ERP 表現之影響-調性音樂vs. 非調性音樂過去許多的研究指出，接觸莫札特音樂有助於增進認知表現，但在這些研究中，大 多數都是使用調性音樂（Tonal music），然而在少數使用非調性音樂（Atonal music）的 研究中可以發現，調性音樂與非調性音樂引發不同的腦活動。有相關理論指出調性音樂在 結構上符合了人類知覺的組織，擁有較為簡單的組織結構，而能有效降低訊息量，也就容 易在空間認知作業上有較好的表現；相反地，非調性音樂中複雜的訊息可能會使工作記憶... more過去許多的研究指出，接觸莫札特音樂有助於增進認知表現，但在這些研究中，大多數都是使用調性音樂（Tonal music），然而在少數使用非調性音樂（Atonal music）的研究中可以發現，調性音樂與非調性音樂引發不同的腦活動。有相關理論指出調性音樂在結構上符合了人類知覺的組織，擁有較為簡單的組織結構，而能有效降低訊息量，也就容易在空間認知作業上有較好的表現；相反地，非調性音樂中複雜的訊息可能會使工作記憶的處理產生困難，造成與調性音樂的差異。過去研究並未探討過音樂的調性對認知表現之影響，本研究因此有興趣探討是否背景音樂的和聲結構（調性音樂 vs. 無調性音樂）會對空間認知表現產生影響，並且希望能得到相關的ERP證據。本研究因此採用心理旋轉（mental rotation）作業，比較聽調性與無調性音樂的心理旋轉行為表現以及ERP表現差異，預期呈現調性音樂時，心理旋轉較無調性音樂時容易，而且可以觀察到相關的腦波反應變化。實驗結果發現，心理旋轉反應時間隨著角度的增加而遞增，但調性音樂與無調性音樂在反應時間的表現沒有差異。ERP平均振幅的分析發現，不論是P3或P4電極，心理旋轉成分的平均振幅也會隨著角度的增加而遞減，調性音樂與無調性音樂在心理旋轉作業上的ERP負向偏移有達到顯著差異，調性音樂的平均振幅明顯大於無調性音樂。另外，P4的平均振幅大於P3，這個效果在350-550ms較為明顯。這些發現顯示(1)本研究複驗了過去的心理旋轉ERP發現。(2)聽無調性音樂比起聽調性音樂，對於參與者而言，需要花費更多的資源來進行，也就是更為費力，但是這種處理差異只會反映在ERP指標，而並不會反映在行為指標上。本研究並討論這些發現的意義。Save to LibraryDownloadby DAMIEN L . CHEN•  4  Musicology, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Mental rotation, TonalityProcessing Pronouns Without Antecedents: Evidence From Event-Related Brain PotentialsPronouns that do not have explicit antecedents typically cause processing problems. We investigate a specific example in which this may not be the case, as in ‘‘At the interview, they asked really difficult questions,’’ where the plural... morePronouns that do not have explicit antecedents typically cause processing problems. We investigate a specific example in which this may not be the case, as in ‘‘At the interview, they asked really difficult questions,’’ where the plural pronoun they has no explicit antecedent, yet is intuitively easy to process. Some unspecified but constrained set of individuals (the interview panel or the company) can be inferred as the referent, but it is not crucial to determine specifically which entities are being referred to. We propose that this contrasts with the processing of singular pronouns (he or she), for which it is necessary to determine a specific referent. We used event-related brain potentials to in- vestigate how readers process the pronoun (they vs. he/she) in these cases. Sentences were placed in a context that either did or did not contain an explicit antecedent for the pronoun. There were two key findings. Firstly, when there was no explicit antecedent, a larger fronto-central positivity was observed 750 msec after pronoun onset for he/she than they, possibly reflecting the additional difficulty involved in establishing a referent for he/she than for they when no explicit referent is available. Secondly, there was a larger N400-like deflection evoked by he/she than they, regardless of whether there was an explicit antecedent for the pronoun. We suggest that this is due to the singular pronouns bringing about a greater integration effort than the plural pronoun. This observation adds to a growing body of research revealing fundamental differences in the way these pronouns are handled by the language processor.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruth Filik•  19  Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Experimental Psychology, Languages and LinguisticsEssential Motor Cortex Signal Processing: an ERP and functional connectivity MATLAB toolbox -User Guide Version 1.0The purpose of this document is to help individuals use the "Essential Motor Cortex Signal Processing MATLAB Toolbox". The toolbox implements various methods for three major aspects of investigating human motor cortex from Neuroscience... moreThe purpose of this document is to help individuals use the "Essential Motor Cortex Signal Processing MATLAB Toolbox". The toolbox implements various methods for three major aspects of investigating human motor cortex from Neuroscience view point: (1) ERP estimation and quantication, (2) Cortical Functional Connectivity analysis and (3) EMG quantication. The toolbox { which is distributed under the terms of the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE as a set of MATLAB routines { can be downloaded directly at the address:http://oset.ir/category.php?dir=Toolsor from the public repository on GitHub, at address below:https://github.com/EsiSeraj/ERP Connectivity EMG AnalysisThe purpose of this toolbox is threefold: 1. Extract the event-related-potential (ERP) from preprocessed cerebral signals (i.e. EEG, MEG, etc.), identify and then quantify the event-related synchronization/desynchronization (ERS/ERD) events. Both time-course dynamics and time-frequency (TF) analyzes are included. 2. Measure, quantify and demonstrate the cortical functional connectivity (CFC) across scalp electrodes. These set of functions can also be applied to various types of cerebral signals (i.e. electric and magnetic). 3. Quantify electromyogram (EMG) recorded from active muscles during performing motor tasks.Save to LibraryDownloadby Esmaeil  Seraj and +1Karthiga Mahalingam•  17  Brain-computer interfaces, Matlab, Time-Frequency Analysis, Brain Computer InteractionERP and behavioral effects of semantic ambiguity in a lexical decision taskIn the present study we examined electrophysiological and behavioral correlates of ambiguous word processing. In a lexical decision task, participants were presented with ambiguous words with unrelated meanings (i.e., homonyms; e.g.,... moreIn the present study we examined electrophysiological and behavioral correlates of ambiguous word processing. In a lexical decision task, participants were presented with ambiguous words with unrelated meanings (i.e., homonyms; e.g., bat), ambiguous words with related meanings (i.e., polysemes; e.g., newspaper), and unambiguous words (e.g., guitar). Ambiguous words elicited larger N400 amplitudes than unambiguous words and showed an advantage in RTs. Importantly, no differences were found between homonyms and polysemes, on either N400 amplitudes or in RTs. These results suggest that ambiguous words, regardless of the relatedness between their meanings, benefit from enhanced semantic activation in comparison to unambiguous words during word recognition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Josep  Demestre•  2  Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Lexical ambiguityA critical role of the human hippocampus in an electrophysiological measure of implicit memoryThe hippocampus has traditionally been thought to be critical for conscious explicit memory but not necessary for unconscious implicit memory processing. In a recent study of a group of mild amnesia patients with evidence of MTL damage... moreThe hippocampus has traditionally been thought to be critical for conscious explicit memory but not necessary for unconscious implicit memory processing. In a recent study of a group of mild amnesia patients with evidence of MTL damage limited to the hippocampus, subjects were tested on a direct test of item recognition confidence while electroencephalogram (EEG) was acquired, and revealed intact measures of explicit memory from 400 to 600ms (mid-frontal old-new effect, FN400). The current investigation re-analyzed this data to study event-related potentials (ERPs) of implicit memory, using a recently developed procedure that eliminated declarative memory differences. Prior ERP findings from this technique were first replicated in two independent matched control groups, which exhibited reliable implicit memory effects in posterior scalp regions from 400 to 600ms, which were topographically dissociated from the explicit memory effects of familiarity. However, patients were found to b...Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard J Addante•  21  Implicit learning, Consciousness (Psychology), Consciousness, Memory StudiesElectrophysiological investigation of infants' understanding of understandingSocial cognition might play a critical role in language acquisition and comprehension, as mindreading may be necessary to infer the intended meaning of linguistic expressions uttered by communicative partners. In three... moreSocial cognition might play a critical role in language acquisition and comprehension, as mindreading may be necessary to infer the intended meaning of linguistic expressions uttered by communicative partners. In three electrophysiological experiments, we explored the interplay between belief attribution and language comprehension of 14-month-old infants. First, we replicated our earlier finding: infants produced an N400 effect to correctly labelled objects when the labels did not match a communicative partner's beliefs about the referents. Second, we observed no N400 when we replaced the object with another category member. Third, when we named the objects incorrectly for infants, but congruently with the partner's false belief, we observed large N400 responses, suggesting that infants retained their own perspective in addition to that of the partner. We thus interpret the observed social N400 effect as a communicational expectancy indicator because it was contingent not on the attribution of false beliefs but on semantic expectations by both the self and the communicative partner. Additional exploratory analyses revealed an early, frontal, positive-going electrophysiological response in all three experiments, which was contingent on infants' computing the comprehension of the social partner based on attributed beliefs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bálint Forgács and +2György GergelyBaross Júlia•  18  Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Language Acquisition, Cognitive developmentMediofrontal negativity signals unexpected omission of aversive eventsResearch based on event-related potential (ERP) reported mediofrontal negativities following unexpected negative feedback or performance error. Some authors proposed that these signals reflect reward prediction error for worse than... moreResearch based on event-related potential (ERP) reported mediofrontal negativities following unexpected negative feedback or performance error. Some authors proposed that these signals reflect reward prediction error for worse than expected outcomes, while others suggested that mediofrontal negativities express medial prefrontal cortex coding for unexpected non-occurrence of a predicted outcome, whether worse or better than expected. Many studies found mediofrontal negativities coding for unexpected negativeoutcomes; however, few studies found them after unexpected positive outcomes. The present study investigated ERP and skin conductance response (SCR) to the unexpected omission of electric shocks during Pavlovian aversive conditioning. To manipulate expectancies, participants were presented with visualstimuli paired with electric shock on either 80% (CS11) or 20% (CS12) of trials. SCR analysis confirmedhigher shock-delivery expectancy for CS11, relative to CS12. ERP analysis evidenced a stronger negativefrontocentral ERP component after unexpected, relative to expected, shock-omission. Methodological andtheoretical implications are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sara Garofalo•  12  Neuroscience, Reinforcement Learning, Associative Learning and Memory, Prefrontal CortexA P300-based brain computer interface system for words typingP300 is an event related potential of the brain in response to oddball events. Brain Computer Interface (BCI) utilizing P300 is known as a P300 BCI system. A conventional P300 BCI system for character spelling is composed of a paradigm... moreP300 is an event related potential of the brain in response to oddball events. Brain Computer Interface(BCI) utilizing P300 is known as a P300 BCI system. A conventional P300 BCI system for character spellingis composed of a paradigm that displays flashing characters and a classification scheme which identifiestarget characters. To type a word a user has to spell each character of the word: this spelling process isslow and it can take several minutes to type a word. In this study, we propose a new word typing schemeby integrating a word suggestion mechanism with a dictionary search into the conventional P300-basedspeller. Our new P300-based word typing system consists of an initial character spelling paradigm,a dictionary unit to give suggestions of possible words and the second word selection paradigm to selecta word out of the suggestions. Our proposed methodology reduces typing time significantly and makesword typing easy via a P300 BCI system. We have tested our system with ten subjects and our resultsdemonstrate an average word typing time of 1.91min whereas the conventional took 3.36 min for thesame words.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Faraz  Akram•  20  Artificial Intelligence, Human Computer Interaction, Machine Learning, Brain-computer interfacesControlling the Emotional Bias: Performance, Late Positive Potentials, and the Effect of Anodal Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS)Cognitive control of emotional processing is essential for adaptive human behavior. Biased attention toward emotionally salient information is critically linked with affective disorders and is discussed as a promising treatment target.... moreCognitive control of emotional processing is essential for adaptive human behavior. Biased attention toward emotionally salient information is critically linked with affective disorders and is discussed as a promising treatment target. Anodal (activity enhancing) transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has been shown to increase healthy and impaired cognitive control over emotional distraction and is therefore widely used for the investigation and experimental treatment of this disorder. In this study, event-related potential (ERP) were recorded parallel to tDCS to track its online effects. Healthy volunteers (n = 87) performed a delayed working memory paradigm with emotional salient and neutral distractors during stimulation with different intensities (sham, 0.5, 1, 1.5 mA). Measuring the late positive potential (LPP), an ERP that indexes attention allocation, we found that a valence-specific increase of the early portion of the LPP (eLPP, 250–500 ms) was associated with less emotional distraction in the sham group. Of note, stimulation with tDCS exerted an intensity related effect on this correlation. The later part of the LPP (lLPP, 500–1000 ms) was found to be correlated with reaction time, regardless of valence. General effect of tDCS on LPPs and task performance were not observed. These findings demonstrate that ERP recordings parallel to tDCS are feasible to investigate the neuronal underpinnings of stimulation effects on executive functions. Furthermore, they support the notion that the LPP induced by a distractive stimulus during a working memory task mirrors the additional allocation of neuronal resources with a specific sensitivity of the early LPP for highly arousing negative stimuli. Finally, together with the variable magnitude and direction of the emotional bias, the lack of systematic modulations of LPPs and behavior by tDCS further underlines the important influence of the individual brain activity patterns on stimulation effects both on the behavioral and neurophysiological level.Save to LibraryDownloadby Florian Faehling•  3  Emotion Regulation, Non Invasive Brain Stimulation, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Predictive coding and the Uncanny Valley hypothesis: Evidence from electrical brain activityThe uncanny valley hypothesis suggests that robots that are humanoid in appearance elicit positive and empathetic responses, but that there is a point where the robot design is very close to human, the robot becomes repulsive. A possible... moreThe uncanny valley hypothesis suggests that robots that are humanoid in appearance elicit positive and empathetic responses, but that there is a point where the robot design is very close to human, the robot becomes repulsive. A possible mechanism underlying this phenomenon is based on the predictive coding theory of neural computations. According to this framework, certain neural systems in the brain can ascribe humanness to a robot that is highly human-like in its appearance, and if the robot’s behavior does not match in realism to the appearance, there will be a processing conflict the neural network will need to resolve. Although this hypothesis is consistent with previous results in the field, empirical work directly testing it is lacking. Here we addressed this gap with a cognitive neuroscience study: We recorded electrical brain activity from the human brain using electroencephalography (EEG) as human subjects viewed images and videos of three agents: A female adult (human), a robot agent closely resembling her (android), and the same robot in a more mechanical appearance (robot). The human and robot had congruent appearance and movement (human with biological appearance and movement; robot with mechanical appearance and movement), and the android had incongruent appearance and movement (biological appearance but mechanical movement). We hypothesized that the android would violate the brain’s predictions since it has a biological appearance, but mechanical movement, whereas the other agents would not lead to such a conflict (robot looks mechanical and moves mechanically; human looks biological and moves biologically). We focused on the N400 ERP component derived from the EEG data. Since the N400 has a greater amplitude for anomalies and violations based on preceding context, we hypothesized the amplitude would be significantly greater for the android in the moving condition than the still condition, whereas the moving and still conditions of the robot and human stimuli would not differ. Our results confirmed out hypothesis, indicating that the uncanny valley might at least partially be due to violations of the brain’s internal predictions about almost-but-not-quite-human robots. Interdisciplinary studies like this one not only allows us to understand the neural basis of human social cognition but also informs robotics about what kind of robots we should design for successful human-robot interaction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Burcu Aysen Urgen•  10  Uncanny Valley, Social Neuroscience, Social Robotics, Cognitive NeuroscienceGraded Effects of Regularity in Language Revealed by N400 Indices of Morphological PrimingDifferential electrophysiological effects for regular and irregular linguistic forms have been used to support the theory that grammatical rules are encoded using a dedicated cognitive mechanism. The alternative hypothesis is that... moreDifferential electrophysiological effects for regular and irregular linguistic forms have been used to support the theory that grammatical rules are encoded using a dedicated cognitive mechanism. The alternative hypothesis is that language systematicities are encoded probabilistically in a way that does not categorically distinguish rule-like and irregular forms. In the present study, this matter was investigated more closely by focusing specifically on whether the regular–irregular distinction in English past tenses is categorical or graded. We compared the ERP priming effects of regulars (baked–bake), vowel-change irregulars (sang–sing), and “suffixed” irregulars that display a partial regularity (suffixed irregular verbs, e.g., slept–sleep), as well as forms that are related strictly along formal or semantic dimensions. Participants performed a visual lexical decision task with either visual (Experiment 1) or auditory prime (Experiment 2). Stronger N400 priming effects were observed for regular than vowel-change irregular verbs, whereas suffixed irregulars tended to group with regular verbs. Subsequent analyses decomposed early versus late-going N400 priming, and suggested that differences among forms can be attributed to the orthographic similarity of prime and target. Effects of morphological relatedness were observed in the later-going time period, however, we failed to observe true regular–irregular dissociations in either experiment. The resultsindicate that morphological effects emerge from the interactionof orthographic, phonological, and semantic overlap betweenwords.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aneta  Kielar•  5  Languages and Linguistics, Morphology, Priming, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Boenke, L.T., Ohl, F., Nikolaev, A.R., Lachmann, T., & van Leeuwen, C. (2009). Different time courses of Stroop and Garner effects in perception — An event-related potentials study. NeuroImage, 45, 1272–1288."Visual integration between target and irrelevant features leads to effects of irrelevant feature congruency (Stroop) or variation (Garner) on classification response performance. In a factorial design, Stroop and Garner effects were... more"Visual integration between target and irrelevant features leads to effects of irrelevant feature congruency (Stroop) or variation (Garner) on classification response performance. In a factorial design, Stroop and Garner effects were obtained on response times and error rates, and their correlates in brain activity were observed in event-related potentials (ERP). Stroop effects were manifested in ERP amplitude at the latencies of the N1 and N2 components, starting about 170 ms after stimulus onset. Garner effects were observed in the amplitude of the rising part of the P3 component, starting about 330 ms after stimulus onset. The difference in time course between Stroop and Garner effects is in accordance with the view that both are produced by different mechanisms, the former sensitive to interference within presentations and the latter to interference between presentations."Save to LibraryDownloadby Cees van Leeuwen and +1Andrey Nikolaev•  6  Psychology, Cognitive Science, Event-Related Potentials, Stroop effectThe role of character-based knowledge in online narrative comprehension: Evidence from eye movements and ERPsLittle is known about the on-line evaluation of information relating to well-known story characters during text comprehension. For example, it is not clear in how much detail readers represent character-based information, and the time... moreLittle is known about the on-line evaluation of information relating to well-known story characters during text comprehension. For example, it is not clear in how much detail readers represent character-based information, and the time course over which this information is utilized during on-line language comprehension. We describe an event- related potential (ERP) study (Experiment 1) and an eye-tracking study (Experiment 2) investigating whether, and when, readers utilize their prior knowledge of a character in processing event information. Participants read materials in which an event was described that either did or did not fit with the character’s typical behavior. ERPs elicited by the critical word revealed an N400 effect when the action described did not fit with the character’s typical behavior. Results from early eye movement measures supported these findings, and later measures suggested that such violations were more easily accommodated for well-known fictional characters than real-world characters.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruth Filik•  20  Psychology, Cognitive Science, Experimental Psychology, Languages and LinguisticsIsolating the Effects of Word’s Emotional Valence on Subsequent Morphosyntactic Processing: An Event-Related Brain Potentials StudyEmotional information significantly affects cognitive processes, as proved by research in the past decades. Recently, emotional effects on language comprehension and, particularly, syntactic processing, have been reported. However, more... moreEmotional information significantly affects cognitive processes, as proved by research in the past decades. Recently, emotional effects on language comprehension and, particularly, syntactic processing, have been reported. However, more research is needed, as this is yet very scarce. The present paper focuses on the effects of emotion-laden linguistic material (words) on subsequent morphosyntactic processing, by using Event-Related brain Potentials (ERP). The main aim of this paper is to clarify whether the effects previously reported remain when positive, negative and neutral stimuli are equated in arousal levels and whether they remain long-lasting. In addition, we aimed at testing whether these effects vary as a function of the task performed with the emotion-laden words, to assess their robustness across variations in attention and cognitive load during the processing of the emotional words. In this regard, two different tasks were performed: a reading aloud (RA) task, where participants simply read aloud the words, written in black on white background, and an Emotional Stroop (ES) task, where participants named the colors in which the emotional words were shown. After these words, neutral sentences followed, that had to be evaluated for grammaticality while recording ERPs (50% containing a morphosyntactic anomaly). ERP analyses showed main effects of valence across tasks on the two components reflecting morphosyntactic processing: The Left Anterior Negativity (LAN) is increased by previous emotional words (more by negative than positive) relative to neutral ones, while the P600 is similarly decreased. No interactions between task and valence were found. As a result, an emotion-laden word preceding a sentence can modulate the syntactic processing of the latter, independently of the arousal and processing conditions of the emotional word.Save to LibraryDownloadby Javier Espuny and +2Laura Jiménez-OrtegaMARIA DEL PILAR CASADO MARTINEZ•  10  Emotion, Neurolinguistics, Cognitive Neuroscience, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)First Language Attrition Induces Changes in Online Morphosyntactic Processing and Re-Analysis: An ERP Study of Number Agreement in Complex Italian SentencesFirst language (L1) attrition in adulthood offers new insight on neuroplasticity and the role of language experience in shaping neurocognitive responses to language. Attriters are multilinguals for whom advancing L2 proficiency comes at... moreFirst language (L1) attrition in adulthood offers new insight on neuroplasticity and the role of language experience in shaping neurocognitive responses to language. Attriters are multilinguals for whom advancing L2 proficiency comes at the cost of the L1, as they experience a shift in exposure and dominance (e.g., due to immigration). To date, the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying L1 attrition are largely unexplored. Using event-related potentials (ERPs), we examined L1-Italian grammatical processing in 24 attriters and 30 Italian native-controls. We assessed whether (a) attriters differed from non-attriting native speakers in their online detection and re-analysis/repair of number agreement violations, and whether (b) differences in processing were modulated by L1-proficiency. To test both local and non-local agreement violations, we manipulated agreement between three inflected constituents and examined ERP responses on two of these (subject, verb, modifier). Our findings revealed group differences in amplitude, scalp distribution, and duration of LAN/N400 + P600 effects. We discuss these differences as reflecting influence of attriters' L2-English, as well as shallower online sentence repair processes than in non-attriting native speakers. ERP responses were also predicted by L1-Italian proficiency scores, with smaller N400/P600 amplitudes in lower proficiency individuals. Proficiency only modulated P600 amplitude between 650 and 900 ms, whereas the late P600 (beyond 900 ms) depended on group membership and amount of L1 exposure within attriters. Our study is the first to show qualitative and quantitative differences in ERP responses in attriters compared to non-attriting native speakers. Our results also emphasize that proficiency predicts language processing profiles, even in native-speakers, and that the P600 should not be considered a monolithic component.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten  Steinhauer and +1Francesco Vespignani•  6  Morphosyntax, Event-Related Potentials, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), N400Subject/Object processing asymmetries in Korean relative clauses: Evidence from ERP dataSave to LibraryDownloadby Nayoung Kwon•  3  Psycholinguistics, Korean linguistics, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Brain Potentials Reveal Discrete Stages of L2 Grammatical LearningSave to LibraryDownloadby Cheryl Frenck-Mestre•  14  Second Language Acquisition, Psycholinguistics, Morphosyntax, NeurolinguisticsThe effect of tDCS on recognition depends on stimulus generalization: Neuro-stimulation can predictably enhance or reduce the face inversion effect.This paper reports results from three experiments that investigate how a particular neuro-stimulation procedure is able, in certain circumstances, to selectively increase the face inversion effect by enhancing recognition for upright... moreThis paper reports results from three experiments that investigate how a particular neuro-stimulation procedure is able, in certain circumstances, to selectively increase the face inversion effect by enhancing recognition for upright faces, and argues that these effects can be understood in terms of the MKM theory of stimulus representation. We demonstrate how a specific transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) methodology can improve performance in circumstances where error-based salience modulation is making face recognition harder. The three experiments used an old/new recognition task involving sets of normal vs Thatcherised faces. The main characteristic of Thatcherised faces is that the eyes and the mouth are upside down, thus emphasizing features that tend to be common to other Thatcherised faces and so leading to stronger generalization making recognition worse. Experiment 1 combined a behavioural and ERP study looking at the N170 peak component, which helped us to calibrate the set of face stimuli needed for subsequent experiments. In Experiment 2 we used our tDCS procedure (between-subjects and double-blind) in an attempt to reduce the negative effects induced by error-based modulation of salience on recognition of upright Thatcherised faces. Results largely confirmed our predictions. In addition, they showed a significant improvement on recognition performance for upright normal faces. Experiment 3 provides the first direct evidence in a single study that the same tDCS procedure is able to both enhance performance when normal faces are presented with Thatcherised faces, and to reduce performance when normal faces are presented with other normal faces (i.e. male vs female faces). We interpret our results by analyzing how salience modulation influences generalization between similar categories of stimuli.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ciro  Civile•  7  Face Recognition, Face perception, Non Invasive Brain Stimulation, Event related brain potentials (ERPs)Role and activation time course of phonological and orthographic information during phoneme judgmentsSave to LibraryDownloadby Cécile Colin and +2Régine KolinskyChotiga Pattamadilok•  25  Psychology, Cognitive Science, Phonetics, Speech perceptionEarly stage visual-orthographic processes predict long-term retention of word form and meaning: A visual encoding training studySave to LibraryDownloadby Lindsay Harris and +1Joseph Stafura•  13  Psychology, Cognitive Science, Chinese Studies, Academic WritingEvent-related potential evidence for multiple causes of the revelation effectSave to LibraryDownloadby Joshua Landau and +2Richard J AddanteAndy Leynes•  27  Psychology, Cognitive Science, Philosophy, Information TheoryHigh Antenatal Maternal Anxiety Is Related to ADHD Symptoms, Externalizing Problems, and Anxiety in 8- and 9-Year-OldsSave to LibraryDownloadby Bea Van den Bergh•  3  Neuropsychology, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), TemperamentCognitive control over visual food cue saliency is greater in reduced-overweight/obese but not in weight relapsed women: an EEG studyObjective: Poor weight management may relate to a reduction in neurobehavioural control over food intake and heightened reactivity of the brain’s neural reward pathways. Here we explore the neurophysiology of food-related visual cue... moreObjective: Poor weight management may relate to a reduction in neurobehavioural control over food intake and heightened reactivity of the brain’s neural reward pathways. Here we explore the neurophysiology of food-related visual cue processing in weight reduced and weight relapsed women by assessing differences in cortical arousal and attentional processing using a food-Stroop paradigm. Methods: 51 women were recruited into 4 groups: reduced-weight participants (RED, n = 14) compared to BMI matched low-weight controls (LW-CTL, n = 18); and weight relapsed participants (REL, n = 10) compared to BMI matched high-weight controls (HW-CTL, n = 9). Eating behaviour and body image questionnaires were completed. Two Stroop tasks (one containing food images, the other containing neutral images) were completed with record of electroencephalography (EEG). Results: Differences in cortical arousal were found in RED versus LW-CTL women, and were seen during food task execution only. Compared to their controls, RED women exhibited lower relative delta band power (p = 0.01) and higher relative beta band power (p = 0.01) over the right frontal cortex (F4). Within the RED group, delta band oscillations correlated positively with self-reported habitual fat intake and with body shape dissatisfaction. Conclusions: As compared to women matched for phenotype but with no history of weight reduction, reduced-overweight/obese women show increased neurobehavioural control over external food cues and the inhibition of reward-orientated feeding responses. Insight into these self-regulatory mechanisms which attenuate food cue saliency may aid in the development of cognitive remediation therapies which facilitate long-term weight loss.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fleur Howells and +3David John HumeJacolene  KroffLaurie  Rauch•  19  Neuroscience, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, AddictionWhich way to integration? Examining directional association in word-to-text integration using ERPs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Stafura•  5  Reading, Event related brain potentials (ERPs), Text comprehension, Word-to-Text IntegrationNextLast »Related TopicsEvent-Related PotentialsFollowFollowingPsycholinguisticsFollowFollowingLexical SemanticsFollowFollowingEEGFollowFollowingCognitive NeuroscienceFollowFollowingLanguage LearningFollowFollowingSecond Language AcquisitionFollowFollowingNeurolinguisticsFollowFollowingCognitive Linguistic ProcessingFollowFollowingLanguage ProcessingFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023