Trinidad News, Trinidad Newspaper, Trinidad Sports, Trinidad politics, Trinidad and Tobago, Tobago News, Trinidad classifieds, Trinidad TV, Sports, Business
55 captures
12 Oct 2007 - 07 Dec 2022
Oct
DEC
Feb
12
2006
2007
2009
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: 52_crawl
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20071212032115/http://www.trinidadexpress.com:80/index.pl/article_news?id=161209317
   
      Home 
 e-Paper
 TV6 News & Events
 Newsletters
 Opinion
  Business 
   - Exchange Rates
   - Share Prices
   - Mutual Funds
   - Directory
  Sports 
  Letters 
 Features
 Weather
 Archives
What is Rss ?
     TV6
    
 Tobago News
Magazines
      Business
      Sports
      Woman
 Classifieds
 Advertising
Search
Type:
ArticlesDirectory
 Keyword: 
 Featured Links
 Grenada Barnacle
 Study in the U.S
 ReachCaribbean
 TheTobagoNews
 Stabroeknews
 VirginIslandDailyNews
 Contacts
  Webmaster
  The Editor
  REGIONAL  NEWS
- VI DailyNews
- Stabroek News
- Barbados Nation
- Voice of Barbados
- Jamaďca Observer
 CCN Group
 Reach Caribbean
 Children's Fund
 Privacy Policy
E-mail to a friend
View printable version
NOVEMBER 5
PM reveals election date at last
Juhel Browne
jbrowne@trinidadexpress.com
Saturday, September 29th 2007
HOPE YOU'RE READY!: Prime Minister Patrick Manning 
gesticulates at an Opposition MP during yesterday's sitting of the House of Representatives at the Red House, Port of Spain.
PHOTOS: DEXTER PHILIP
Prime Minister Patrick Manning says he did not intend to cause any insult to the Hindu community when he announced yesterday that the general election would be held on November 5, just five days before the Divali public holiday.
Election Day is being held during the fasting period that is part of the lead up to the Hindu religious festival .
Acting on Manning's advice, President George Maxwell Richards ordered that the Parliament be dissolved at midnight last night, in accordance with the Constitution, which officially cleared the way for the long-awaited announcement of the date of the general election.
As the nation waited yesterday to see whether Manning would finally call the election date or wait to do so at a later date, he rose to his feet at around 2 .25 pm in the Parliament Chamber and put an end to the long-standing speculation.
"Mr Speaker, I would just like to state for the benefit of our honourable members and the national community, that I have today advised the President to dissolve Parliament with effect from midnight tonight. general elections will be held in Trinidad and Tobago on Monday, November the fifth, and Nomination Day is Monday, October 22," Manning said.
Soon after he left the Parliament Chamber and returned just before the entire Parliament was adjourned "sine die" at 2.55 pm by House Speaker Barendra Sinanan which confirmed the Parliament's dissolution.
Manning later told reporters that his decision for November 5 was not made as a reaction to any existing political issues in the country or his party.
"That date incidentally had been determined a long time ago. Long time ago. I was working towards, well, in accordance with a schedule and that date was not a date that is just so but that date had been determined a long time ago," Manning said.
Asked why he had not announced the date for the general election sooner since he had made his decision on it "a long time ago", Manning said the law give him as Prime Minister 'a minimum of 35 days" requisite notice to the Elections and Boundaries Commission.
"And I made the announcement on the last opportunity that I had to do it in the Parliament," he added.
He later told reporters after the dissolution of the Parliament  that the decision on the election date was not meant to be affront to the Hindu community.
"No. No. By no means. That was never the intention. There are some who felt that it shouldn't be held on Divali Day, it would be all right to be held at the time when the fasting is on," Manning said.
He indicated that others did not support that view as he said there were "different views on the matter" but asserted he did not believe the election date would turn off any supporters the PNM may have within the Hindu community.
The Parliament was scheduled to be prorogued by midnight yesterday as this marked the end of the 12 month term of its Fifth Session but the deadline for the dissolution was midnight October 16.
The Eighth Parliament began sittings on October 17, 2002 and the general election was constitutionally due this year as it marked the fifth year it had been in operation.
  
PM SPARES WIFE HAZEL
$200,000 for woman dragged by wrecker
Senators ready to talk crime
'Bas wants Hindu woman for Senate'
Independents deny ties to ruling party
Crime expert: No quick-fix to police problems
'Long bus' breaks in two
Man killed hours after court case
SAUTT on hunt for 
PM office burglar
NCRHA security head quits
 Home 
 News 
 Features 
 Opinion 
 Sports 
 Cartoon 
 Search 
 Woman 
 MIX 
 Classified 
 Business 
 Market 
 TV6 
 Privacy Policy 
 Advertising 
  
Site designed and managed by CCN New Ventures. Editor: Alan Geere,  Head of
TV News; Natalie Williams, Copyright 2005 All rights reserved. Trinidad
Express 35 Independence Sq, Port of Spain, Trinidad. Express newspaper and
TV6 are subsidiaries of One Caribbean Media  (www.onecaribbeanmedia.net) 
 Powered by www.cpsgsoftware.com
 
 
 