The British physicist making women scientists visible online
Topics
Week's top
Latest news
Unread news
Subscribe
Science X Account
Remember me
Sign In
                           Click here to sign in with
                               
                                   or
                                
Forget Password?
Not a member?
                           Sign up
Learn more
Nanotechnology
Physics
Earth
Astronomy & Space
Chemistry
Biology
Other Sciences
 Medicine
                                
 Technology
                                 
share this!
6
5
Share
Email
Home
Other Sciences
Social Sciences
April 20, 2023
Editors' notes
This article has been reviewed according to Science X's 
editorial process
and policies.
Editors have highlighted
the following attributes while ensuring the content's credibility:
 fact-checked
 reputable news agency
 proofread
The British physicist making women scientists visible online
 by Anna CUENCA  
                British physicist Jessica Wade has made it her mission to increase women scientists' visibility online.
             
By day, Jessica Wade spends her time in a laboratory at Imperial College London surrounded by spectrometers, oscilloscopes—and men.
  
        
At night, she writes biographies on Wikipedia about women researchers like her who don't have an online presence.
"We can't just do the shouting about how we need more women in science. We have to do the point of honoring and celebrating the women scientists that we have," she told AFP.
"And I think writing their stories, making sure the world recognizes what they've done is a really important way to do that."
Wade, 34, has worked at Imperial's imposing campus in west London since 2016.
As a physicist, she is involved in developing new generations of carbon-based semi-conductors to make optical and electronic devices such as televisions and solar panels more energy efficient.
She leads a team of five people in a wider team of about 15. Of them, only one other scientist is a woman.
Science "is very male-dominated," Wade said, lamenting the lack of interest in it among girls whose parents are not scientists.
"As soon as I walked into a physics department that had a majority of men and a majority of people from white privileged backgrounds, I suddenly realized that not everyone's getting the opportunity to study physics, not everyone's getting excited about it," she added.
"That lack of diversity impacts the science we do, the questions we ask, the directions we go in, the way we translate our innovations into society, where those kinds of devices are actually used in the world and who they benefit."
                Wade writes biographies of women scientists on Wikipedia.
             
Visibility
Wade now seeks to "take science to more people" but came across "knowledge gaps" in the internet's free, multilingual, collaborative encyclopedia.
"Wikipedia is an amazing platform because it's used by everyone in society," she said.
"It's used by 15 billion access points a month. Parents, teachers, policymakers, journalists, scientists, Amazon, Alexa, Google Home, they all use Wikipedia when they're looking for information."
But there is one big problem, she added: "About 90 percent of Wikipedia contributors and editors are men, and about 19 percent of the biographies on English language Wikipedia are about women."
Wade set out to redress the imbalance in 2018 and has since written almost 2,000 pages by herself at the rate of one a night, at home, after dinner.
"They take more than one hour each, so that's already too many hours of my life," she laughed.
But she is undeterred by the daunting task.
"I don't see it stopping anytime soon," she said.
In fact, the research itself creates more work, as she often discovers more women scientists when writing another biography.
                Wade hopes greater visibility for women scientists will encourage more girls.
             
Wades' first Wikipedia biography entry was the American climatologist Kim Cobb.
She saw her at a conference but after looking her up on Wikipedia found there was nothing on her oceanographic research.
      
Acknowledgement
Wade, who is now part of a network of women editors and leads workshops on how to write for Wikipedia, says a person's presence and their work on the internet means they are discoverable.
"Little girls who are googling something, let's say about sea urchins, will click through and then land on a Wikipedia page about an awesome woman scientist who had contributed to that," she said.
"If you're trying to nominate someone for an award or to become a fellow or to invite someone to give a lecture, you always google them and if they've got a biography nicely summarized on somewhere like Wikipedia, it's so much easier to write someone's citation or reference."
That happened for Gladys West, a 92-year-old black American mathematician, whose profile was one of Wade's first.
Starting in 1956, when racial segregation was still imposed in the United States, she worked for 42 years on navy navigation systems. Her calculations eventually led to the development of GPS.
"I researched Gladys to write her page and there was so little about her online, she was almost 90 and no one had celebrated her," she said.
"I put her Wikipedia page online in February 2018 and in May 2018 she was in the BBC top 100 women in the world.
"And then she was inducted to the US Air Force Hall of Fame, and she won the Royal Academy of Engineering Prince Philip medal, which had never before gone to a woman."
 
 
  © 2023 AFP
 
Citation:
The British physicist making women scientists visible online (2023, April 20)
retrieved 3 September 2023
from https://phys.org/news/2023-04-british-physicist-women-scientists-visible.html
 
 This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no
 part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
 
Explore further
Wikipedia 'doing very well financially': co-founder
11 shares
Facebook
Twitter
Email
 Feedback to editors
Featured
Last Comments
Popular
Saturday Citations: Ancient corvids, tetraquarks, and researchers who aren't bored hearing about your dreams
Sep 2, 2023
0
Japanese astrophysicists suggest possibility of hidden planet in the Kuiper Belt
Sep 1, 2023
3
Clay formation prolonged global warming event 40 million years ago, according to new biogeochemical model
Sep 1, 2023
4
LHCb collaboration observes a doubly charged tetraquark and its neutral partner for the first time
Sep 1, 2023
0
Multiple types of testing reveal details of Bronze Age cremation remains
Aug 31, 2023
0
 
India's moon rover completes its walk, scientists analyzing data looking for signs of frozen water.
10 hours ago
 
AI 'nose' predicts smells from molecular structures
Sep 2, 2023
 
Saturday Citations: Ancient corvids, tetraquarks, and researchers who aren't bored hearing about your dreams
Sep 2, 2023
 
Patrolling honey bees expose spread of antimicrobial resistance
Sep 2, 2023
 
From the moon to the sun: India launches next space mission
Sep 2, 2023
 
New research explains 'Atlantification' of the Arctic Ocean
Sep 1, 2023
 
SMART-BARN: A cutting-edge technology lab to study large animal groups
Sep 1, 2023
 
Groundwater depletion rates in India could triple in coming decades as climate warms, study warns
Sep 1, 2023
 
Hunting for supermassive black holes in the early universe
Sep 1, 2023
 
Seismologists use deep learning to forecast earthquakes
Sep 1, 2023
Related Stories
 
Wikipedia 'doing very well financially': co-founder
May 16, 2019
 
As Wikipedia turns 20 it aims to reach more readers
Jan 15, 2021
 
The Wikipedia gender gap
Jun 12, 2019
 
Machine learning tool Quicksilver can find overlooked females
Aug 10, 2018
 
Putin calls for Russian alternative to Wikipedia
Nov 5, 2019
 
Russian court fines Wikipedia for article about Ukraine war
Apr 13, 2023
Recommended for you
 
Evidence shows that, in love, opposites don't actually attract
Aug 31, 2023
 
Speech and sun: New research on climate and how we speak
Aug 31, 2023
 
Study suggests most people watching extremist videos on YouTube already hold extremist views
Aug 31, 2023
 
Surprising study results: Students are bored during exams
Aug 30, 2023
 
How Norway is helping to restore humanity inside US prisons
Aug 30, 2023
 
Gender disparities limit chances for women PhD students training to be new inventors, says new research
Aug 28, 2023
Load comments (0)
 
Let us know if there is a problem with our content
Use this form if you have come across a typo, inaccuracy or would like to send an edit request for the content on this page.
For general inquiries, please use our  contact form.
For general feedback, use the public comments section below (please adhere to guidelines).
Please select the most appropriate category to facilitate processing of your request
 -- please select one -- 
Compliments / Critique
Typos / Errors / Inaccuracies
Edit / Removal request
Your message to the editors
Your  email  (only if you want to be contacted back)
Send Feedback
Thank you for taking time to provide your feedback to the editors.
Your feedback is important to us. However, we do not guarantee individual replies due to the high volume of messages. 
E-mail the story
The British physicist making women scientists visible online
Your friend's email
Your email
                                            I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more
Your name
Note
                                            Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose.
The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Phys.org in any form. 
                                        
Your message
Send
Newsletter sign up
Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox.
You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties.
Subscribe
More information
Privacy policy
Donate and enjoy an ad-free experience
                    We keep our content available to everyone.
                    Consider supporting Science X's mission by getting a premium account.
Remove ads
Maybe later
Medical Xpress
Medical research advances and health news
Tech Xplore
The latest engineering, electronics and technology advances
Science X
The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web
Newsletters
Subscribe
                                                Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
                                            
Follow us
Top
Home
Search
Mobile version
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Science X Account
Premium Account
Archive
News wire
Android app
iOS app
RSS feeds
Push notification
© Phys.org 2003 - 2023 powered by Science X Network
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Your Privacy
                    This site uses cookies to assist with navigation, analyse your use of our services, collect data for ads personalisation and provide content from third parties.
                    By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Privacy Policy
                    and Terms of Use.
                
Ok
Cookie options
E-mail newsletter
Subscribe
Follow us