Bislama - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Name
2Orthography
3Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
3.1"Long"
3.2"Blong"
3.3Verbs
3.4Nouns
3.5Pronouns
3.6Tense/aspect/mood markers
4Subordination
5Dialectal variations
6Pacific creole comparison
7Literature and samples
Toggle Literature and samples subsection
7.1Yumi, Yumi, Yumi
8Further reading
9References
10External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Bislama
74 languages
AfrikaansالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяBislamaБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegالدارجةDeutschDolnoserbskiEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFøroysktFrançaisGalego한국어HornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתJawaКомиKreyòl ayisyenLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиმარგალურიمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norfuk / PitkernNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskPiemontèisTok PisinPolskiPortuguêsРусскийGagana SamoaᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSimple EnglishSlovenčinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt吴语中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Bislama language)
English-based creole language of Vanuatu
This article is about the language. For the food, see sea cucumber (food).
BislamaBichelamarBislamaRegionVanuatuNative speakers10,000 (2011)[1]200,000 L2 speakers[citation needed]Language familyEnglish Creole
PacificMelanesian PidginBislamaWriting systemLatin, Avoiuli (local)Official statusOfficial language inVanuatuLanguage codesISO 639-1biISO 639-2bisISO 639-3bisGlottologbisl1239Linguasphere52-ABB-ce
A Bislama speaker, recorded in Vanuatu
Bislama (English: /ˈbɪsləmɑː/;[2] Bislama: [bislaˈma]; also known by its earlier French name, bichelamar[3] [biʃlamaʁ]) is an English-based creole language and one of the official languages of Vanuatu. It is the first language of many of the "Urban ni-Vanuatu" (citizens who live in Port Vila and Luganville) and the second language of much of the rest of the country's residents. The lyrics of "Yumi, Yumi, Yumi", the country's national anthem, are composed in Bislama.
More than 95% of Bislama words are of English origin, whilst the remainder comprises a few dozen words from French as well as some specific vocabulary inherited from various languages of Vanuatu—although these are essentially limited to flora and fauna terminology.[4] While the influence of these vernacular languages is low on the vocabulary side, it is very high in the morphosyntax. As such, Bislama can be described simply as a language with an English vocabulary and an Oceanic grammar and phonology.[5]
History[edit]
During the period of "blackbirding" in the 1870s and 1880s, hundreds of thousands of Pacific islanders (many of them from the New Hebrides – now the Vanuatu archipelago) were taken as indentured labourers, often kidnapped, and forced to work on plantations, mainly in Queensland, Australia, and Fiji.[6] With several languages being spoken in these plantations a localised pidgin was formed, combining English vocabulary with grammatical structures typical of languages in the region.[7] This early plantation pidgin is the origin not only of Bislama, but also of Tok Pisin in Papua New Guinea, and Pijin of the Solomon Islands; though not of Torres Strait Creole in the north of Australia.
This creole started spreading throughout the Vanuatu archipelago at the turn of the 20th century, as former blackbirds and their descendants began to return to their native islands. Knowledge of this creole would facilitate communication not only with European traders and settlers, but also between native populations, and because Vanuatu is the most language-dense country in the world (one count puts it at 113 languages for a population of 225,000),[8] Bislama usefully serves as a lingua franca for communication between ni-Vanuatu, as well as with and between foreigners. Although it has been primarily a spoken-only language for most of its history, the first dictionary of Bislama was published in 1995.[9] This, along with its second edition in 2004, has helped to create a standardised and uniform spelling of written Bislama.
Besides Bislama, most ni-Vanuatu also know their local language, the local language of their father and/or mother, as well as their spouse, oftentimes. The country's official languages of tuition in schools and educational institutions are English and French.
Name[edit]
The name of Bislama (also referred to, especially in French, as "Bichelamar") comes via the early 19th century word "Beach-la-Mar" from pseudo-French "biche de mer" or "bêche de mer", sea cucumber, which itself comes from an alteration of the Portuguese "bicho do mar".[10] In the early 1840s, sea cucumbers were also harvested and dried at the same time that sandalwood was gathered. The names biche-la-mar and 'Sandalwood English' came to be associated with the kind of pidgin that came to be used by the local laborers between themselves, as well as their English-speaking overseers.[11]
Robert Louis Stevenson wrote in an account of his travels through the Pacific in 1888 and 1889, "the natives themselves have often scraped up a little English ... or an efficient pidgin, what is called to the westward 'Beach-la-Mar'."[12] In Jack London's story "Yah! Yah! Yah!", one of his "South Sea Tales", there is repeated a reference to "a bastard lingo called bech-de-mer", and much of the story's dialogue is conducted in it.
Today, the word "bislama" itself is seldom used by younger speakers of Bislama to refer to sea slugs, as a new re-borrowing from pseudo-French "bêche de mer", which has taken the form "besdemea", has become more popular.[13]
Orthography[edit]
A sign in Bislama written in boustrophedon Avoiuli script, from the island of Pentecost. The top-left reads, sab senta blong melenisian institiut blong tijim saen. filosofi. hiumaniti mo teknoloji. lisa vilij lolovini (Sap Centre of the Melanesian Institute for teaching signs, philosophy, humanity and technology, Lisaa village, Central Pentecost).
The Bislama Latin alphabet uses the letters A, B, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, R, S, T, U, V, W, Y and the digraphs AE, AO and NG.
An older Latin orthography, used before 1995, had É (now written E), AI and AU (now AE and AO). For those vowels in hiatus, AÏ and AÜ were used (now written AI and AU). Labialized consonants, now written MW and PW, were then spelled with a macron, following the conventions used for some vernacular Vanuatu languages: M̄ was used for /mʷ/ and P̄ for /pʷ/.[14][15]
On the island of Pentecost, the avoiuli script is sometimes used for Bislama. The shapes of the letters derive from sand-drawing. It has distinct letters for NG and NGG, but otherwise corresponds closely to the Latin alphabet above, though capitals are seldom used, punctuation differs, there are digits for higher numbers and logograms for commonly traded commodities such as pig tusks.
Grammar[edit]
Two frequent words in Bislama are "long" and "blong", which take the place of many prepositions in English or French.
"Long"[edit]
Long as 'next to', 'by', 'beside' etc.
Stoa long haos
The store next to the house.
long as 'at' or 'to'
Mi bin stap long ples ia bifo
I have been to this place before.
Mi stap long stoa
I am at the store.
long as 'in'
Jea long haos
The chair in the house.
Long holds many other related meanings, and is sometimes used in improvisation.
"Blong"[edit]
Originally from the English word "belong", blong takes the place of 'of' or the genitive case in other languages. Just like of in English, it is one of the most widely used and versatile words in the language, and can indicate possession, country of origin, defining characteristics, intention, and others.
Buk blong mi
The book that belongs to me, my book
Man blong Amerika
Man from America, American.
Hemi woman blong saiens
She is a woman of science, She is a scientist.
Man blong dring
Man of drinking i.e. a drinker
Verbs[edit]
Verbs in Bislama usually consist of a stem word (borrowed from English, French or indigenous languages); most transitive verbs add to this a transitive suffix.
The form of that suffix is /-em/, /-im/, or /-um/, depending on vowel harmony. If the last vowel of the verb's stem is either -u- or -i-, then that vowel will normally be copied into the transitive suffix – however, there are rare exceptions. For all other stem vowels, the transitive suffix has its default form /-em/:[16]
Morphology of transitive verb endings
English
Bislama
etymon
stem
verb
dig
dig-
digim
clean
klin-
klinim
kiss
kis-
kisim
put
put-
putum
pull
pul-
pulum
cook
kuk-
kukum
want
wand-
wandem
hear
har-
harem 'hear, feel'
tell
tal-
talem 'tell, say'
sell
sal-
salem
shut
sat-
sarem
catch
kas-
kasem 'get, reach'
carry
kar-
karem 'carry, bring'
ready
rere 'ready'
rerem 'prepare'
take
tek-
tekem
find
faen-
faenem
call
kol-
kolem
hold
hol-
holem
follow
fol-
folem
show
so-
soem
look out
lukaot-
lukaotem 'search'
pay
pe-
pem 'buy'
Exceptions exist, such as lukim ("look").
Examples of transitive verbs which exceptionally don't take this suffix include: kakae 'eat, bite'; trink 'drink'; save 'know'; se 'say'.
Verbs do not conjugate. The tense, aspect and mood of a sentence are indicated with markers such as stap, bin and bae that are placed in the sentence.
Mi stap kakae taro
I'm eating taro
Mi bin kakae taro
I have eaten taro
Bae mi kakae taro
I will eat taro
Nouns[edit]
The plural is formed by putting ol before the word. For example, bia 'beer'; ol bia = "beers". Ol comes from the English "all". When used with numbers, the singular form is used. 2 bia, 3 bia, etc.
Pronouns[edit]
Pronouns on warning signs in Vanuatu
The personal pronouns of Bislama closely resemble those of Tok Pisin. They feature four grammatical numbers (singular, dual, trial and plural) and also encode the clusivity distinction: 1st person non-singular pronouns (equivalent of English we) are described as inclusive if they include the addressee (i.e. {you + I}, {you + I + others}), but exclusive otherwise (i.e. {I + other people}). Bislama pronouns do not decline.
personal pronouns of Bislama
singular
dual
trial
plural
1st person
inclusive
-
yumitu
yumitri
yumi
exclusive
mi
mitufala
mitrifala
mifala
2nd person
yu
yutufala
yutrifala
yufala
3rd person
hemem
tufalatugeta
trifalatrigeta
ololgeta
The third person singular hem, also written em lacks gender distinction, so it can mean either he, she or it. The predicate marker i – a particle which is placed before the verbal phrase of a sentence – is sometimes merged with the third person pronoun, giving the words hemi and emi, respectively, in singular, and oli in plural.[17]
Tense/aspect/mood markers[edit]
stap + V : (progressive) ongoing or habitual action
hem i stap kukum kumala
or:
hemi stap kukum kumala
he/she is cooking sweet potatoes
bin + V : past tense (with implication that the state is no longer true)
hem i bin sik long fiva
she was sick with fever [but is no longer sick]
V + finis : (perfective) "already" (when placed at the end of a phrase; elsewhere it means "finish")
hem i kakae finis
she has already eaten
bae + V (occasionally bambae): (irrealis) future or hypothetical actions (though, like in English, generally not used in conditional sentences)
bae mi go long Santo
I will go to Santo
sipos plen i no bin fulap, bae mi go long Santo
If the plane hadn't been full, I would have gone to Santo
no + V : negative, "not"
hem i no wantem yam
he doesn't want yam
nomo + V: "no longer" (when placed after the predicate; elsewhere it means "only")
hem i nomo kakae yam
he no longer eats yam
hem i kakae yam nomo
he only eats yam
neva + V : never
hem i neva kakae yam
he's never eaten yam
jes + V : (<"just") an action that has recently occurred
mifala i jes wekap
we just woke up
In a future context, jes entails a delay, rendered in English as "eventually":
bae mi pem
I will buy it / Let me buy it
bae mi jes pem, be noyet
I will buy it (eventually), but not yet
V + gogo : continued action
hem i kukum kumala gogo
he keeps on cooking sweet potatoes
mas + V : "must", be obliged to
hem i mas kakae
he must eat
traem + V : "try to"; also sometimes used for politeness in requests
hem i stap traem katem
he's trying to cut it
traem soem long mi
could you show it me? (request)
wantem + V : "want to"
hem i wantem go long Santo
she wants to go to Santo
save + V : be able to, or be in the habit of doing
mi save rid
I can read
mi no save dring suga
I don't take sugar in drinks
fish ia i save kilim man
this fish can kill a person
Some of these markers also have lexical meanings. For example, save can mean "be able to" but it is also a verb "know".
Subordination[edit]
sapos + Clause : if
sapos yumitu faenem pig, bae yumitu kilim i ded
if we find a pig, we'll kill it
Dialectal variations[edit]
Dialects exist, based mainly on different pronunciations in different areas which stem from the different sounds of the native languages. The future tense marker can be heard to be said as: Bambae, Mbae, Nambae, or Bae. There are also preferences for using Bislama or native words that vary from place to place, and most people insert English, French, or local language words to fill out Bislama. So in the capital city it is common to hear 'computer'; in other places one might hear 'ordinateur'.
Pacific creole comparison[edit]
English
Bislama
Pijin
Tok Pisin
Torres Strait Creole
and
mo
an
na
ane / ne / an / a
the
__ ia / ya
__ ia
dispela __
dha / dhemtu / dhem
this
__ ia / ya
__ ia
dispela __
dhis __ (ia) / dhemtu __ ia / dhem __ ia
he / she / it / him / her
hem
hem
em / en
em
for
from
fo
long
po
(adjective marker)
-fala
-fala
-pela
-Ø when attributive (em i big man 'he's a big man')-wan when predicative (man i bigwan 'the man's big')
woman
woman
woman / mere
meri
uman / oman (dialect difference)
Literature and samples[edit]
The longest written work in Bislama is the Bible completed in 1998.[18]
Luke 2:6–7:
Bislama:
"Tufala i stap yet long Betlehem, nao i kam kasem stret taem blong Meri i bonem pikinini. Nao hem i bonem fasbon pikinin blong hem we hem i boe. Hem i kavremap gud long kaliko, nao i putum hem i slip long wan bokis we oltaim ol man ol i stap putum gras long hem, blong ol anamol ol i kakae. Tufala i mekem olsem, from we long hotel, i no gat ples blong tufala i stap."
English:
While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no guest room available for them.
Recruitment advert from Vanuatu Tourism Office
Yumi, Yumi, Yumi[edit]
Main article: Yumi, Yumi, Yumi
Bislama words
CHORUS:
Yumi, Yumi, yumi i glad long talem se
Yumi, yumi, yumi ol man blong Vanuatu
God i givim ples ya long yumi,
Yumi glat tumas long hem,
Yumi strong mo yumi fri long hem,
Yumi brata evriwan!
CHORUS
Plante fasin blong bifo i stap,
Plante fasin blong tedei,
Be yumi i olsem wan nomo,
Hemia fasin blong yumi!
CHORUS
Yumi save plante wok i stap,
Long ol aelan blong yumi,
God i helpem yumi evriwan,
Hem i papa blong yumi,
CHORUS
English translation
CHORUS:
We (, We, We) are happy to proclaim
We (, We, We) are the People of Vanuatu!
God has given us this land;
This gives us great cause for rejoicing.
We are strong, we are free in this land;
We are all brothers.
CHORUS
We have many traditions
And we are finding new ways.
But we are all one
We shall be united for ever.
CHORUS
We know there is much work to be done
On all our islands.
God helps all of us,
He is our father,
CHORUS
Further reading[edit]
Camden, William. 1979. Parallels in structure and lexicon and syntax between New Hebrides Bislama and the South Santo language spoken at Tangoa. In Papers in Pidgin and Creole Linguistics, No.2. Pacific Linguistics, A-57. Canberra: Australian National University. pp. 51–117.
Charpentier, Jean-Michel. 1979. Le pidgin bislama(n) et le multilinguisme aux Nouvelles-Hébrides. Langues et Civilisations à Tradition Orale 35. Paris: SELAF.
Crowley, Terry (1990). Beach-la-Mar to Bislama: The Emergence of a National Language in Vanuatu. Oxford Studies in Language Contact. Oxford: Clarendon Press. p. 422..
Crowley, Terry (1995). An Illustrated Bislama-English and English-Bislama Dictionary. Oxford Studies in Language Contact. Port Vila: Pacific Languages Unit and Vanuatu Extension Centre, University of the South Pacific. p. 478.
Crowley, Terry (2000). "The language situation in Vanuatu". Current Issues in Language Planning. 1 (1): 47–132. doi:10.1080/14664200008668005. S2CID 144268250.
Crowley, Terry (2004). Bislama Reference Grammar. Oceanic Linguistics Special Publication No. 31. Honolulu: University of Hawai'i Press.
François, Alexandre (2012). "The dynamics of linguistic diversity: Egalitarian multilingualism and power imbalance among northern Vanuatu languages". International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 2012 (214): 85–110. doi:10.1515/ijsl-2012-0022. S2CID 145208588.
Tryon, Darrell T.; Charpentier, Jean-Michel (2004). Pacific Pidgins and Creoles: Origins, Growth and Development. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. ISBN 3-11-016998-3.
References[edit]
^ Bislama at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ Bauer, Laurie (2007). The Linguistics Student's Handbook. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
^ "Bislama". Ethnologue. Retrieved January 2, 2014.
^ See Charpentier (1979).
^ See Camden (1979).
^ Emma Christopher, Cassandra Pybus and Marcus Buford Rediker (2007). Many Middle Passages: Forced Migration and the Making of the Modern World, University of California Press, pp 188–190. ISBN 0-520-25206-3.
^ For this whole section, see: Tryon & Charpentier (2004), and Crowley (1990).
^ See Crowley (2000:50); François (2012:86).
^ See Crowley (1995).
^ "bêche-de-mer". American Heritage Dictionary. 2000.
^ See Crowley (1990).
^ Stevenson, Robert Louis (2004). In the South Seas (1st ed.). Fairfield, IA: 1st World Publishing. p. 15. ISBN 1-59540-504-6.
^ Crowley, Terry (1990). "1". Beach-la-Mar to Bislama: The Emergence of a National Language in Vanuatu. Oxford: Clarendon Press. p. 33.
^ "Letter Database". eki.ee.
^ Smith, Rachel E. (2016). "The Goal of the Good House": Seasonal Work and Seeking a Good Life in Lamen and Lamen Bay, Epi, Vanuatu (PDF) (PhD thesis). University of Manchester.
^ https://www.livelingua.com/course/peace-corps/Bislama_Handbook, p. 71
^ https://www.livelingua.com/course/peace-corps/Bislama_Handbook, p. 11-13, 49 and 57
^ "Bislama". Ethnologue.
External links[edit]
 Bislama  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Bislama phrasebook.
Bislama Wikipedia
Bislama.org, a portal of resources about the Bislama language.
Bislama Translator & Spelling Dictionary for Microsoft Word English – Bislama online translator and MS Word dictionary
Bislama at Curlie
Vanuatu Daily Post – news in English and Bislama
A bibliography of Bislama Archived 2009-11-12 at the Wayback Machine, from an Australian National University website
Peace Corps in Vanuatu – Bislama Language Lessons Archived 2015-01-13 at the Wayback Machine
Portions of the Book of Common Prayer in Bislama Preabuk long Bislama
Book of Mormon in Bislama
Paradisec has a number of collections that include recordings of Bislama language.
vteLanguages of VanuatuOfficial languages
Bislama
English
French
Indigenous languages(Southern Oceanicand Polynesian)North VanuatuTorres–Banks
Dorig
Hiw
Koro
Lakon
Lehali
Lemerig
Lo-Toga
Löyöp
Mota
Mwerlap
Mwesen
Mwotlap
Nume
Olrat
Vera'a
Volow
Vurës
Penama
Ambae
East
West
North Ambrym
Apma
Baetora
Fanbak
Raga
Saa
Ske
Sowa
Sungwadaga
Sungwadia
Espiritu Santo
Akei
Amblong
Ande
Aore
Araki
Butmas
Kiai
Mavea
Merei-Tiale
Mores
Narango
Navut
Nethalp
Ngen
Nokuku
Piamatsina
Polonombauk
Sakao
Tamambo
Tambotalo
Tangoa
Tasmate
Toksiki
Tolomako
Tutuba
Valpei
Vunapu
Wailapa
Wusi
Moiso
Kene
Daruru
Retlatur
Atin
Bura
Farnanto
Fanafo
Central Vanuatu
North Efate
Nafsan
Efatese
Eton
Lelepa
Makura
Daakaka
Dalkalaen
Lonwolwol
Paamese
Port Vato
Southeast Ambrym
Epi
Baki
Bierebo
Bieria
Lamen
Lewo
Maii
Malakula
Aulua
Avava
Aveteian
Axamb
Big Nambas
Botovro
Burmbar
Bwenelang
Larëvat
Lendamboi
Litzlitz
Malfaxal
Malua Bay
Maskelynes
Nahavaq
Nasarian
Nasvang
Nāti
Navwien
Nese
Neve'ei
Neverver
Ninde
Nisvai
Nitita
Port Sandwich
Rerep
Sörsörian
Tape
Tirax
Unua
Northeast Malakula
Vao
Vivti
Rutan
Alovas
Najit
Njav
South Vanuatu
Aneityum
Ifo
Kwamera
Lenakel
North Tanna
Sie
Sorung
Southwest Tanna
Ura
Whitesands
Polynesian
Emae
Futuna-Aniwa
Mele-Fila
vteMid-Pacific English-based pidgins and creoles
Tok Pisin
Pijin
Bislama
Torres Strait Creole
Loyalty Islands Pidgin English
New Caledonian Pidgin English†
Micronesian Pidgin English†
Queensland Kanaka English
Maori Pidgin English†
Samoan Plantation Pidgin†
Authority control National
Japan
Czech Republic
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bislama&oldid=1172727334"
Categories: English-based pidgins and creolesLanguages of VanuatuLanguages of New CaledoniaBislama words and phrasesHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles containing Bislama-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2011Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing French-language textArticles with Curlie linksWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 22:43 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width