History Of Information Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
History Of Information5,640 FollowersRecent papers in History Of InformationTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeoplePharmacies as centres of communication in early modern Venice, 2007In early modern Venice, a city replete with professionals of intelligence conveniently located mid-way between East and West, pharmacies were amongst the most important centres where people met to exchange news, discuss current affairs... moreIn early modern Venice, a city replete with professionals of intelligence conveniently located mid-way between East and West, pharmacies were amongst the most important centres where people met to exchange news, discuss current affairs and occasionally criticise political trends. Parallel to their main activities, many apothecaries sold illicit pamphlets and newsheets behind the counter, offering their premises as a convenient – and comfortable – shelter for those wishing to discuss the news. Medical shops hosted different kinds of sociable activities, as reflected in the arrangement of space and furniture, as well as in the timing of the shops’ activities. As can be traced in contemporary descriptions, in inquisitorial records, and in intelligence reports, political and religious topics combined with medical ones in the pharmacy conversation of elites as well as ordinary people. The study of pharmacies reveals a different centre for the exchange of news than the coffee-houses made famous in Jurgen Habermas’ study of the “public sphere” – and it also allows us to revise that famous account by grounding communication and the exchange of ideas in their material context. Contents: Pharmacies and the InquisitionThe Inquisitors of State and the Pharmacy at the Sign of the SunWell-Known Meeting PlacesA Socially Diverse ClienteleInformation and the Apothecaries’ Business"Save to LibraryDownloadby Filippo de Vivo•  9  History of Medicine, Inquisition, History Of Information, Public SphereIntroduction: Histories of Surveillance from Antiquity to the Digital EraIntroductory chapter to edited research volume on the history of surveillance.Save to Libraryby Andreas Marklund•  8  History of Science and Technology, History of Technology, Surveillance Studies, History Of InformationFrom informational reading to information literacyPurpose The purpose of this paper is to historicise research conducted in the fields of Information Seeking and Learning and Information Literacy and thereby begin to outline a description of the history of information in the context of... morePurpose The purpose of this paper is to historicise research conducted in the fields of Information Seeking and Learning and Information Literacy and thereby begin to outline a description of the history of information in the context of Swedish compulsory education. Design/methodology/approach Document work and documentary practices are used as alternatives to concepts such as information seeking or information behaviour. Four empirical examples of document work – more specifically informational reading – recorded in Swedish primary classrooms in the 1960s are presented. Findings In the recordings, the reading style students use is similar to informational reading in contemporary educational settings: it is fragmentary, facts-oriented, and procedure-oriented. The practice of finding correct answers, rather than analysing and discussing the contents of a text seems to continue from lessons organised around print textbooks in the 1960s to the inquiry-based and digital teaching of toda...Save to LibraryDownloadby Louise Limberg•  16  Information Literacy, Documentation, Information Behavior, Information useThe emporium of words: free ports as laboratories for commercial, political and cultural communicationDuring the 18 th century, the analysis of the intertwinement between power and ethics underlines the image of commerce as driving force is strengthened. Such image is not a mere stereotype. It is materialized by the parallelism between... moreDuring the 18 th century, the analysis of the intertwinement between power and ethics underlines the image of commerce as driving force is strengthened. Such image is not a mere stereotype. It is materialized by the parallelism between the circulation routes of people and goods and those of immaterial objects such as ideas and news. The correlation of communication and commerce emerges as ideal standpoint to rethink information process during early modern age. • The study of communication in the specific dimension of the free port can be particularly meaningful. The free port has a liminal and liquid character. It is a place where imperium is suspended, where the power's grasp over information is continuously challenged in the name of commercial needs. It is the place where early modern processes such as territorialization of power and nationalization of language and culture are reversed. It is also the place where fading mercantilism and rising liberalism meet. The free-port allows to reconsider the development of information and communication during early modern age according to a new and more complex outlook. Such development can be recodified not as an intellectual product generated by thinkers and philosophers, but as the result of exchanges between different agents and of the mutual influences between political, cultural and commercial environments. The commercial needs within the free-port favored communicative process directed to swift, efficient and widespread circulation and creation of news. The communication within free-ports can be examined from at least three points of view: 1. How new forms of communication are created within the free-port; 2. How the image of the free-port is construed and the spread ; 3. How definitions and images of free-port are influenced by institutions / how institutions themselves are conditioned by the definitory struggles around the concept of free-port.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giulia Delogu•  16  History, Modern History, Intellectual History, Cultural HistoryPaola Volpini, Los Medici y España. Príncipes, embajadores y agentes en la Edad moderna, Silex ediciones, Madrid, 2017This volume examines political and diplomatic relations, as well as cultural exchanges between Tuscany and Spain from a new perspective that has overcome traditional approaches and has contributed to the opening of new historiographical... moreThis volume examines political and diplomatic relations, as well as cultural exchanges between Tuscany and Spain from a new perspective that has overcome traditional approaches and has contributed to the opening of new historiographical currents on diplomacy and political history.The role of the Medici Grand Dukes and that of their agents and ambassadors between the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries is considered not only through the analysis of the networks of relations established in the Spanish court and in the areas of politics, but also of the examination of information circuits and cultural exchange channels.In this way, a universe of complex relationships is reconstructed, in which the individual abilities of sovereigns, princes, ministers and ambassadors constituted the background of the relations between the Medici Grand Dukes and Spain in the Habsburgs age.                                                                                                                                                             En este volumen se examinan las relaciones políticas y diplomáticas, así como los intercambios culturales entre Toscana y España desde una nueva perspectiva que ha superado el enfoque tradicional y ha contribuido a la apertura de nuevas corrientes historiográficas sobre diplomacia e historia política. Se considera el papel de los Grandes Duques Medici y el de sus agentes y embajadores entre los siglos XVI y XVII no solo a través del análisis de las redes de relaciones establecidas en la corte española y en los espacios de la política, sino también del examen de los circuitos de información y los canales de intercambio cultural. Se reconstruye, así, un universo de relaciones muy complejas, donde las habilidades individuales de soberanos, príncipes, ministros y embajadores constituyeron la trama de fondo de las relaciones entre los Medici y la España de los Habsburgo.                                                                                                                                                  Nel volume sono esaminate le relazioni politiche, diplomatiche e gli scambi culturali fra Toscana e Spagna da una nuova prospettiva che ha superato gli approcci tradizionali e ha contribuito all'apertura di nuove correnti storiografiche sulla diplomazia e la storia politica. Si prende in considerazione il ruolo dei granduchi, dei loro agenti e degli ambasciatori fra i secoli XVI e XVII non solo attraverso l'analisi delle reti di relazione stabilite alla corte spagnola e negli spazi della politica, ma anche grazie all'esame dei circuiti di informazione e ai canali di scambio culturale. Si ricostruisce in questo modo un universo di relazioni complesse, in cui le abilità individuali di sovrani, principi, ministri e ambasciatori costituirono la trama di fondo delle relazioni fra i Medici e la Spagna degli Asburgo.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paola Volpini•  9  Diplomatic History, Political History, History Of Information, Cultural ExchangeThe First Steps of Soviet Computer ScienceThe report provides new facts about the history of the first computers in the Soviet Union from 1948 to 1952. Four teams from the Academy of Sciences and Industry, almost simultaneously began work on developing of the first computers. The... moreThe report provides new facts about the history of the first computers in the Soviet Union from 1948 to 1952. Four teams from the Academy of Sciences and Industry, almost simultaneously began work on developing of the first computers. The victory was won by the team that had the fewest resources. At the end of 1951 the first Soviet computer M1 was put into service.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergei Prokhorov•  5  History Of Computing, History of Science, History Of Information, History of Computer Sciences«Subterranea conspiración». Terremoti, informazione e politica nella monarchia di Carlo II - previewThe article addresses the flow of information through different territories the Spanish Monarchy about two late 17th century calamities: the 1687 Lima earthquake and the 1688 Samnium earthquake. The main focus of attention is the... moreThe article addresses the flow of information through different territories the Spanish Monarchy about two late 17th century calamities: the 1687 Lima earthquake and the 1688 Samnium earthquake. The main focus of attention is the circulation of news, accounts and opinions, both within the peripheral and central governmental bodies, and beyond the institutional networks. As the months passed, in the wider “public sphere” the two events underwent significant transformations and were given powerful symbolic signification; moreover, they were often associated in a single interpretative scheme by natural philosophers, theologists, preachers, and even in the collective rites and processions that were celebrated in several cities of the Iberian Peninsula. Tracing the circulation of news in times of emergency and their transformation in the different passages from one channel to another, allows to observe closely how collective traumatic events are symbolically mediated. Furthermore, it also sheds some new light on the mechanisms of information gathering and dissemination, which did not only follow the center-periphery pattern, but often connected the main cities of the Monarchy with each other.Save to LibraryDownloadby Domenico Cecere•  8  Early Modern History, History Of Information, History of Communication, Natural DisastersConnected News. German geschriebene Zeitungen and Italian Avvisi in the Fugger collection. (1568-1604)This article reconstructs and compares the geography of information of the Fugger Zeitungen. By comparing the famous German collection of newsletters with two other manuscript collections (those of the Dukes of Urbino and the Grand Dukes... moreThis article reconstructs and compares the geography of information of the Fugger Zeitungen. By comparing the famous German collection of newsletters with two other manuscript collections (those of the Dukes of Urbino and the Grand Dukes of Tuscany), it seeks to understandhow the avvisi and Zeitungen were edited and translated in a time in which an independent newsletter market was developing to meet the information needs of the German-speaking public.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paola  Molino•  13  European History, Early Modern History, Manuscript Studies, Civil Society and the Public SphereDer Lange Arm Roms?Save to LibraryDownloadby Markus Friedrich•  10  Jesuit history, History Of Information, Epistolography, StandardizationHistoria de la informacion-libro-ESPAÑOL.pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Pablo E Rodriguez•History Of InformationInformation Ethics I: Origins and EvolutionsThe following paper will trace the recently established field of Information Ethics through it’s various evolutions, from it’s origins in Librarianship to it’s role as a global player in areas as diverse as technology, media, global... moreThe following paper will trace the recently established field of Information Ethics through it’s various evolutions, from it’s origins in Librarianship to it’s role as a global player in areas as diverse as technology, media, global humanitarianism, and the philosophy of information. The praxis of the field will be outlined for the uninitiated reader, followed by an intimate history of the founding players and their continued contribution to this ever-evolving field. The current evolutions of Information Ethics will then be explored in the context of their application to the viral global phenomena of Intercultural Information Ethics (IIE), and finally, the paper will conclude with projections towards future evolutions in Information Ethics, as well as an exploration of potential definitions for the field.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jared  Bielby•  118  Business Ethics, Philosophy, Ethics, Information PhilosophyJesuit LettersThis chapter describes the role of letters and written communication in the first decades of the Society of Jesus. Particular attention is given to the work of Juan Alfonso de Polanco, the first permanent Jesuit secretary in Rome and the... moreThis chapter describes the role of letters and written communication in the first decades of the Society of Jesus. Particular attention is given to the work of Juan Alfonso de Polanco, the first permanent Jesuit secretary in Rome and the architect of the Jesuit communications system. The chapter first explores the structural role of the Roman hub, Jesuit record-keeping practices and the creation of the Roman archive, and the place of the college network in Jesuit communications. It then turns to explore the evolution of Jesuit administrative correspondence, edifying letters, and mission letters. Emphasis is placed on the materiality of Jesuit letters and the scale of scribal production in the early Society. Letters were important tools of identity formation and both regulated and mediated Jesuit social activity. In conclusion, the chapter considers how the Jesuit communications network intersected with broader Jesuit knowledge practices. The first Jesuits were frequently separated by distance, and letters were a routine part of Jesuit life. Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556) distinguished between two different modes of written communication. First were letters for general circulation among the small group of early Jesuits. These were informative, newsy letters frequently referred to simply as nuevas (news). They were meant to edify and were frequently shared with non-Jesuits. Second were administrative letters, habitually referred to as bearing on gobierno (governance) or negocios (business). These letters circulated only among Jesuits, and though usually addressed to a single individual, in reality they were often read by many pairs of eyes. The edifying or "principal" letter frequently functioned as a cover letter for administrative correspondence, instructions, legal documents, and the like. Both letters of edification and letters of governance are important for understanding the mechanics of Jesuit communication and the nature of the surviving documentary record.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul Nelles•  7  Media History, Manuscript Studies, Early Modern Europe, Jesuit historyPengertian Standar Uang atau Standar Mata UangBerikut ini merupakan pembahasan tentang pengertian standar uang, standar uang, standar mata uang, pengertian standar mata uang. Standar uang Standar uang adalah satuan perbandingan untuk uang. Yang menentukan standar uang adalah... moreBerikut ini merupakan pembahasan tentang pengertian standar uang, standar uang, standar mata uang, pengertian standar mata uang. Standar uang Standar uang adalah satuan perbandingan untuk uang. Yang menentukan standar uang adalah pemerintah. Ada negara yang menggunakan standar uang emas dan perak atau hanya salah satu di antaranya. Suatu negara yang menggunakan satu macam logam sebagai standar uang berarti negara tersebut menggunakan standar tunggal (monometalisme). Jika emas digunakan sebagai standar, maka disebut standar emas. Jika perak digunakan sebagai standar, maka disebut standar perak. Suatu negara yang menggunakan dua macam logam (emas dan perak) sebagai standar uang, maka negara tersebut menggunakan standar kembar (bimetalisme). Gambar: Standar Uang Dalam praktik ada negara yang menetapkan satu macam logam sebagai standar uang, misalnya emas. Tetapi di samping mata uang emas tersebut, juga beredar jenis logam lain yaitu perak sebagai alat pembayaran yang sah untuk jumlah yang terbatas. Pembuatan perak sebagai alat pembayaran yang sah biasanya sangat terbatas. Dalam situasi semacam ini, mata uang perak hanya sebagai mata uang tanda, yaitu sebagai alat bayar yang sah dalam jumlah yang terbatas. Apabila emas dipakai sebagai standar mata uang dan sekaligus perak beredar sebagai alat bayar yang sah, maka yang demikian disebut standar pincang. Di Indonesia sistem keuangan berasas pada sistem a-metalistis atau bahan bukan logam, yaitu sistem bahan kertas yang pengeluarannya dibatasi oleh suatu ikatan bahan emas yang disebut jaminan emas bagi peredaran.Save to LibraryDownloadby surya waldi•History Of InformationThe Social History of the Archive (FREE DOWNLOAD in link)Download for free here: https://academic.oup.com/past/issue/230/suppl_11 This Supplement builds on a burgeoning body of research that approaches the archive not merely as the object, but as the subject of enquiry. It explores the... moreDownload for free here: https://academic.oup.com/past/issue/230/suppl_11This Supplement builds on a burgeoning body of research that approaches the archive not merely as the object, but as the subject of enquiry. It explores the phenomenon of record keeping in the early modern period in the context of significant ecclesiastical, political, intellectual and cultural developments that served as a stimulus to it: state formation, religious reformation, and economic transformation; the advent of the mechanical press, the spread of educational opportunity, and the expansion of literacy; changing epistemological conventions, shifting attitudes towards history and memory, and new modes of self-representation. The essays that comprise it focus attention on the impulses behind the surge in public and private documentation in Europe between 1500 and 1800 and place the process by which individual, collective and institutional records were created, compiled, authorised, and used under the microscope. They examine the activities of curators and scribes and analyse the issues of credibility and authenticity to which their endeavours gave rise, alongside the role of textual, pictorial, material and financial records in managing knowledge and giving expression to senses of identity. Stretching traditional, technical definitions of the record and archive, they investigate how writing and document-making of various kinds was shaped by dynamic interactions between ordinary people and by the quotidian circumstances and politics of everyday life. They also illuminate some of the multiple ways in which archives mediate and construct the past, preserving some traces of it for posterity while consigning others to permanent oblivion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Liesbeth  Corens and +5Hannah MurphyMarkus FriedrichFrederik  BuylaertTom  HamiltonMary Laven•  135  Information Systems, History, Cultural History, Archival StudiesMarkus Friedrich Die Geburt des ArchivsSave to LibraryDownloadby Markus Friedrich•  11  Archival Studies, Records Management, Archives, History Of Information[Newspapers and Post] "Giornali in Posta" - seconda parte  - L'epoca dei bollini (1850-1866)Problems, technical solutions and tools of the Austrian Postal Administration for guaranteeing speed circulation to periodicals through postal carriers within and beyond the Lombardo-Venetian Kingdom (1814-1866) Problemi, soluzioni... moreProblems, technical solutions and tools of the Austrian Postal Administration for guaranteeing speed circulation to periodicals through postal carriers within and beyond the Lombardo-Venetian Kingdom (1814-1866) Problemi, soluzioni tecniche e materiali per la circolazione in tempo reale dei periodici attraverso i vettori del servizio postale asburgico nel Regno Lombardo-Veneto e oltre (1814-1866)Save to LibraryDownloadby Clemente Fedele and +1Francesco Luraschi•  7  Contemporary History, Postal History, Habsburg Studies, Journalism HistoryDatafication, Power and Control in Development: A Historical Perspective on the Perils and Longevity of DataThe collection, processing, storage and circulation of data are fundamental element of contemporary societies. While the positivistic literature on 'data revolution' finds it essential for improving development delivery, critical data... moreThe collection, processing, storage and circulation of data are fundamental element of contemporary societies. While the positivistic literature on 'data revolution' finds it essential for improving development delivery, critical data studies stress the threats of datafication. In this article, we demonstrate that datafication has been happening continuously through history, driven by political and economic pressures. We use historical examples to show how resource and personal data were extracted, accumulated and commodified by colonial empires, national governments and trade organizations, and argue that similar extractive processes are a present-day threat in the Global South. We argue that the decoupling of earlier and current datafication processes obscures the underlying, complex power dynamics of datafication. Our historical perspective shows how, once aggregated, data may become imperishable and can be appropriated for problematic purposes in the long run by both public and private entities. Using historical case studies, we challenge the current regulatory approaches that view data as a commodity and frame it instead as a mobile, non-perishable, yet ideally inalienable right of people.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Margocsy and +1Katarzyna Cieslik•  15  History of Science and Technology, Development Studies, International Development, Postcolonial StudiesLibrary & Information History The Nazi Conspiracy Theory: German Fantasies and Jewish Power in the Third ReichABSTRACT Scholars have long recognised the role that propaganda played in bringing the Nazi regime to power and sustaining its rule over the period 193345. While sound intelligence and data were essential to waging war effectively and... moreABSTRACTScholars have long recognised the role that propaganda played in bringing the Nazi regime to power and sustaining its rule over the period 193345. While sound intelligence and data were essential to waging war effectively and accurately measuring public support for the regime’s policies, misinformation played no less important a role in demonising the Party’s enemies and steeling the public’s resolve to support the war effort. This article analyses one such aspect of Nazi misinformation — the conspiracy theory — and argues that Nazi conspiratorial thinking was central to bringing the regime into office, consolidating power, and radicalising policy over the course of the Third Reich.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brendan Fay•  7  European History, Conspiracy Theories, History Of Information, Weimar RepublicBook Publishing and the circulation of informationSave to LibraryDownloadby Mario Infelise•  4  History Of Information, Book History (History), Newspaper History, History of VeniceLa terra trema, le “Relationi” raccontano: il terremoto del 1672 in Romagna e nella Marca d’Ancona, in "Scaffali come segmenti di storia. Studi in onore di Vincenzo Trombetta”, a cura di Rosa Parlavecchia e Paola Zito, Roma, Edizioni Quasar, 2020, p. 83-93 (testo completo)Il contributo – passibile di ulteriori e più approfonditi sviluppi – fa il punto e dà conto della proliferazione macroscopica delle cronache del sisma, che fu certamente disastroso per Rimini e per un’ampia porzione del territorio... moreIl contributo – passibile di ulteriori e più approfonditi sviluppi – fa il punto e dà conto della proliferazione macroscopica delle cronache del sisma, che fu certamente disastroso per Rimini e per un’ampia porzione del territorio circostante ma non paragonabile a eventi precedenti o coevi più distruttivi che non hanno avuto pari risonanza. Si descrivono e localizzano le 29 edizioni finora individuate.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rosa Marisa Borraccini•  4  History Of Information, Terremoti, Sismology, Rimini HistoryKatrin Keller-Paola Molino: "Die Fuggerzeitungen im Kontext. Zeitungssammlungen im Alten Reich und in Italien" (Mitteilungen des Instituts für Österreichische Geschichtsforschung, Ergb. 59) Wien, Böhlau, 2015.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paola  Molino•  7  Early Modern History, Italian Studies, History Of Information, History of CommunicationNotes on Information and Paper in Motion Across the Portuguese EmpireSave to LibraryDownloadby Roger Lee de Jesus•  8  Cultural History, Early Modern Portuguese History, History Of Information, History of the Portuguese EmpireCriminali e “cronaca nera” negli strumenti pubblici d’informazione tra ‘600 e ‘700Save to LibraryDownloadby Mario Infelise•History Of InformationInformation and Communication in Venice: Rethinking Early Modern PoliticsTongues as sharp as blades and pens mightier than swords are amongst the most recurrent metaphors in Western culture. This book investigates the reality behind the image: the political uses of different forms of communication – oral,... moreTongues as sharp as blades and pens mightier than swords are amongst the most recurrent metaphors in Western culture. This book investigates the reality behind the image: the political uses of different forms of communication – oral, manuscript, and printed – in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Venice. From council debates to leaks and spies’ reports, from printed pamphlets to graffiti and rumours, political communication closely intertwined with the wider life and economic activities of this cosmopolitan and thickly populated capital of a large empire. Today we take it for granted that communication and politics influence each other through spin-doctoring and media power. What, however, was the use of communication in an age when rulers recognised no political role for their subjects? And what access to political information did those excluded from government have? In answering, this book offers an original reinterpretation of early modern politics. While traditional political historians view events from the windows of government buildings, social historians have taught us to look at history from below. Neither perspective is sufficient in isolation, because even the most secretive oligarchs, ensconced in the Ducal Palace’s most restricted councils, were constantly preoccupied by their vociferous subjects in the squares below. In early modern Venice politics involved the patrician elite with the rest of the population, including women, in a thick web of continuous communication extending from government halls to the barbershops around Rialto.Save to LibraryDownloadby Filippo de Vivo•  14  History of the Book, Propaganda, Orality-Literacy Studies, Manuscript StudiesInformáció, társadalom, történelemSave to LibraryDownloadby Laszlo Z. Karvalics•History Of InformationA középkori szőlőművelés és borkereskedelem információtörténeti vizsgálatának lehetőségei (The role of information flow and literacy in medieval viticulture and wine trade). Save to LibraryDownloadby Gulyás László Szabolcs•  8  History of Reading and Writing, History Of Information, Medieval communication, WineNature in Draft • PhD Defense. European University Institute.pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby José Beltrán•  8  Early Modern History, History of the Book, History of Natural History, History of ScienceThe Ghosts of Hayek in Orthodox Microeconomics: Markets as Information ProcessorsIn media studies, there is recurrent fascination with how communication , especially when couched in terms of "information," tends to influence many spheres of social life and intellectual endeavor. Some of the key figures in that... moreIn media studies, there is recurrent fascination with how communication , especially when couched in terms of "information," tends to influence many spheres of social life and intellectual endeavor. Some of the key figures in that discipline have been especially attentive to the implications for politics of the modern advent of the "information economy." Nevertheless, we think that there has been little impetus among media scholars to explore how other disciplines , and in this case orthodox economics, have been providing competing accounts of the nature and importance of information over the same rough time frame. Furthermore, we think they might be surprised to learn that Friedrich Hayek and the neoliberals have been important in framing inquiry into the information economy for the larger culture for a couple of generations. This essay is a preliminary report on what would happen to intellectual history if media studies took the early development of the "economics of information" into account.Save to LibraryDownloadby Edward Nik-Khah•  14  Experimental Economics, Game Theory, Media Studies, Tacit KnowledgeThe Digital Transformation - Implications for the Social Sciences and the HumanitiesThe term digital transformation (DT) captures the changes in our personal, social, economic, political, cultural and academic life brought about by the rapid diffusion of information and communication technologies. With the increasing... moreThe term digital transformation (DT) captures the changes in our personal, social, economic, political, cultural and academic life brought about by the rapid diffusion of information and communication technologies. With the increasing digital connectivity, the rise of platform economies and the cost reductions in artificial neural networks, the collection, processing and analysis of large amounts of Big Data have become feasible and widespread.The combination of Big Data and artificial intelligence (BDAI) is exerting a great impact on the natural, life, physical and engineering sciences in which research has generally been conducted with a more positivist attitude. Here, BDAI reconfigures the scientific research process as it reduces the reliance on a priori theories: Making plausible, but not yet proven statements based on interpreting collected data (so-called “abductive reasoning”) now plays a prominent role in the formulation of new hypotheses and theory-building. As has been argued convincingly, this represents a significant epistemological change (Kitchin, 2014). In contrast, for the social sciences and humanities, representing areas of scholarship that are highly diverse in their philosophical underpinnings, it is less clear what the consequences of the digital transformation will be.The contributions gathered in this collection shed light on this question. They are the outcome of the workshop “The Digital Transformation – Implications for the Social Sciences and the Humanities” that took place at the German Institute for Japanese Studies (DIJ) on 24 and 25 September 2019. Co-organized by the Nippon Institute for Research Advancement (NIRA) and the German Centre for Research and Innovation Tokyo (DWIH), the workshop brought together scholars from Japan and from abroad, many of the latter being specialists on Japan. This is why the Japanese case is given special attention in many contributions. Even there, however, the insights are not limited to Japan, but address phenomena and implications of the DT of general relevance, even though they may manifest themselves elsewhere under different conditions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Harald Kümmerle and +1Franz Waldenberger•  16  Artificial Intelligence, Education, Digital Humanities, Social NetworksInformatorium. Word Guide to COntemporary Information CultureThis book revolves around a single word: information. This best known, most loaded expression of our age has no mercy: every day, we encounter newborn expressions that are searching for a place in a universe of words that expands at the... moreThis book revolves around a single word: information. This best known, most loaded expression of our age has no mercy: every day, we encounter newborn expressions that are searching for a place in a universe of words that expands at the speed of (literary) light. And even so, it is almost impossible to follow how reality changes when new words spurt into families of words.And while we adventure in an information-rich reality, language joins us as a shadow companion. This is because we also analyse language itself. On the one hand, we may form an image about how it ‘learns’, how it ‘adapts’, and how it aids understanding.The 252 selected words were divided into 28 categories, so that the areas of reality the given expressions refer to may be visible in groups. The Guide includes words from everywhere, and divides them approximately evenly. The layers of the information base lexicon emerge, user worlds also appear (from economy to politics and law). Things, actors, actions, and processes separate. Words were organized around families of metaphors, too. It may be as interesting to start from categories as it is from the alphabet.This Informatorium may be a good first step to decreasing the pressure of the Age of  Conceptual Uncertainty.Save to LibraryDownloadby László Karvalics•  4  Information Science, Information Society, History Of Information, Information History (history of Information)Les mécanismes de l'information: l'arrivée à Venise de la nouvelle de l'assassinat d'Henri IVSave to LibraryDownloadby Mario Infelise•  3  History Of Information, Newspaper History, Henri IVMaps, Surveys and Stewards (part 1): A study of developments in management information systems on a Suffolk manor between the middle ages and the early modern period. Part 1: the three maps of Worlingworth Manor.This paper describes three copies of an estate map produced at intervals of roughly one century, the first being created in the early 17th. Century. The motives for the creation of the maps are discussed as is the nature of innovations in... moreThis paper describes three copies of an estate map produced at intervals of roughly one century, the first being created in the early 17th. Century. The motives for the creation of the maps are discussed as is the nature of innovations in management information systems that they represent. Issues concerning the need for maps are raised prefiguring the discussion in the next paper in the series which will examine the technologies that the maps replaced and the reasons why they did.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rick Osborn•  7  History Of Information, Agrarian History, Land Administration and Land Information Management, Manorialism, Feudalism“Microhistories of Long-Distance Information: Space, Movement and Agency in the Early Modern News”, Past & Present 242, Supplement 14, “Global History and Microhistory”, ed. John-Paul Ghobrial (2019): 179-214.FREELY AVAILABLE ON P&P WEBSITE. Over the last generation, some of our time’s most momentous concerns have transformed the historical study of information in two seemingly opposite directions: the communicational practices that spread the... moreFREELY AVAILABLE ON P&P WEBSITE. Over the last generation, some of our time’s most momentous concerns have transformed the historical study of information in two seemingly opposite directions: the communicational practices that spread the news across specifically located societies; and the media that enabled it to travel at increasing speed over long distances and across continents. Like trade or migration, information is an essential element of global history, both a means and an effect of contacts among distant regions and peoples. Yet a macro approach struggles to explain how information worked on the ground. By contrast, microhistory maximizes the variety of our sources, to take into account both locality and large spaces; it enables us to study how the news travelled as far as it did, why it came to mutate in the process, thanks to whose agency, and with what impact. This article discusses microhistorical approaches to long-distance information, and experiments with one such approach, by analysing in detail one case of how the reports of one event – a naval battle in the Adriatic in 1617 – moved across distances that were vast in both geographical and cultural terms, in the Mediterranean and beyond. Microhistory shows that the movement of information was a transformational process compounded of intensely localized and socially defined activities, by a wide range of people who shaped the news as they relayed it through places that were at once specific and connected. Information was both global and local: its circulation made long distances small, but every small step could make for huge transformations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Filippo de Vivo•  20  Early Modern History, Media History, Space and Place, History Of InformationAthanasios Skiadas e la gazzetta in lingua greca del 1737Save to LibraryDownloadby Mario Infelise•  5  Book History, History Of Information, History of Journalism, History of Venice"Media and Communication"A synoptic account of changes in information and communication in early-modern Europe, a penultimate draft of chapter six of Scott Dixon and Beat Kumin (eds), Interpreting Early Modern Europe, to appear in 2020), pp. 158-182Save to LibraryDownloadby Mark  Greengrass•  3  Early Modern Europe, History Of Information, History of CommunicationChi ha paura del potere? Politica e comunicazione negli studi sull’età moderna in STUDI STORICI, vol. 64, pp. 373-406Who Fears Power? Historical Perspectives on Politics and Communication (16th-18th centuries) This essay aims to explain how recent historiography has analysed the relationship between power and communication in the early modern age. The... moreWho Fears Power? Historical Perspectives on Politics and Communication (16th-18th centuries)This essay aims to explain how recent historiography has analysed the relationship between power and communication in the early modern age. The research that was carried out had the merit of fusing together multiple methodological frameworks (those of cultural, intellectual, institutional, political, and economic history), thus succeeding in reconstructing dense networks of linkage among different, distant places and finding the presence of a global system since the beginning of the 16th century. However, current interpretative models do not yet seem sufficient to unveil the information factory. What is missing is a deeper focus on the social, political, and economic forces that shape information and convey communication flows. It is therefore necessary-the authors argue-to refine the investigation tools to identify who builds the news and which powers exercise their hegemony over the infosphere.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giulia Delogu and +1Pasquale Palmieri•  20  History, Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Media StudiesDall'informazione alla gestione dell'emergenza. Una proposta per lo studio dei disastri in età modernaThis paper outlines an innovative method for the study of disasters in early modern societies that combines cultural and socio-institutional approaches. It begins with a close examination of a sample of accounts, reports and pleas... moreThis paper outlines an innovative method for the study of disasters in early modern societies that combines cultural and socio-institutional approaches. It begins with a close examination of a sample of accounts, reports and pleas regarding two calamities – the 1667 Dalmatia earthquake and the 1687 Lima earthquake – and how they were processed in the institutional channels of the Spanish monarchy. These sources are analysed with attention to the goals, interests and perspectives of the institutional and social actors that produced or sponsored them. As such, the images and narrative techniques embedded in them reveal the messages the authors sought to convey in order to justify their own conduct while discrediting that of their adversaries. The study of how information was exchanged in the aftermath of such distressing events allows us to see how authoritative narratives were constructed and to trace their larger effects. It also allows for a comprehensive understanding of how strategies were developed to manage social crisesSave to LibraryDownloadby Domenico Cecere•  5  Early Modern History, Environmental History, History Of Information, History of DisastersLa circolazione dell'informazione commercialeSave to LibraryDownloadby Mario Infelise•History Of Information"An Ottoman Intelligence Report from the Mid Sixteenth-Century Indian Ocean," The Journal of Turkish Studies 31/1(2007): 181-188.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giancarlo Casale•  13  Early Modern History, Maritime History, Indian Ocean History, History Of InformationTuesday 7 June 2022 [ONLINE], Archives and Record-keeping in the Medieval Eastern Mediterranean, h. 17.00 (GMT) / 18.00 (CET)The final SMM webinar for the 2021/22 academic year is: Archives and Record-keeping in the Medieval Eastern Mediterranean Tuesday 7 June 2022 at 5pm (UTC + 1) All welcome! Please register here to receive the Zoom link:... moreThe final SMM webinar for the 2021/22 academic year is: Archives and Record-keeping in the Medieval Eastern MediterraneanTuesday 7 June 2022 at 5pm (UTC + 1)All welcome! Please register here to receive the Zoom link: https://theofed-cam-ac-uk.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_T2hoMcfzQouT79EBfMhMDwSpeakers:    Prof. Marina Rustow (Princeton University)    Dr Benedikt Reier (University of Hamburg)    Dr Daisy Livingston (University of Hamburg)Chair:    Dr Alessandro Silvestri (IMF-CSIC, Barcelona)It is well known that writing was important in medieval Muslim societies and research is increasingly showing there to have also been considerable energy invested in the production and preservation of written documents. In a region whose history has been written disproportionately using narrative texts rather than original documents, the recognition of its archival history has major potential to reshape our understanding of this period and region. In this webinar we discuss archiving in the medieval Arabic-speaking Eastern Mediterranean, covering an extended period from the time of the Fatimid caliphs to the demise of the Mamluk sultans (10th to 16th centuries CE). We present three case-studies which showcase a diverse range of historical actors, exploring state record-keeping, the archival practices of religious scholars, and the preservation of legal documents, to illustrate the rich and complex archival history of this region.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alessandro Silvestri and +2Daisy LivingstonBenedikt Reier•  15  Jewish Studies, Medieval History, Mamluk Studies, ArchivesFrom merchants’ letters to handwritten political avvisi: notes on the origins of public informationSave to LibraryDownloadby Mario Infelise•History Of InformationRed Helmsman: Cybernetics, Economics, and Philosophy in the German Democratic RepublicSave to LibraryDownloadby Kevin T.  Baker•  6  Cold War and Culture, History of Science, Cybernetics, History Of InformationMarkus Friedrich: The Birth of the Archive. A History of Knowledge, 2018Save to LibraryDownloadby Markus Friedrich•  7  Archives, History Of Information, History of Archives, History of HistoriographyA. Silvestri, 'Swine at the chancery and locks to chests: Dispersal, destruction, and accumulation of Sicily's financial archives in the later Middle Ages'In the last twenty years, anthropologists, archivists, and historians have dedicated increased attention to the study of archives as objects of research themselves. In so doing, scholars have predominantly examined the emergence and... moreIn the last twenty years, anthropologists, archivists, and historians have dedicated increased attention to the study of archives as objects of research themselves. In so doing, scholars have predominantly examined the emergence and transformations of archives during the early modern age, focusing mostly on political and diplomatic depositories. They have tended to neglect financial archives, which is unfortunate, as-alongside judicial archives-they were probably the largest documentary repositories of the pre-modern world and those that first faced the problem of managing huge masses of documentation. This article discusses the formation and development of the Kingdom of Sicily's financial archives in the later Middle Ages, arguing that this repository evolved into a collecting archive by the early fifteenth-century, when it preserved not only the records and accounts produced by the central financial administration, but also those from a number of territorial officers and magistracies. This archival turn, I suggest, originated from the fact that the Crown of Aragon's rulers constantly needed increased incomes to fund bureaucracies and warfare and exercise patronage, and thus needed financial information organized, at hand, and under their control. After briefly discussing the emergence of the financial archive in the thirteenth-century, this essay traces the Crown's attempts to create a stable repository for storing financial records and accounts and its continuous struggles to prevent documentation from being scattered and dispersed. Finally, it examines the successful strategy that King Alfonso V of Aragon (1416-58), called the Magnanimous, pursued to organize financial documentation and concentrate records and accounts produced by financial administration into a stable building. The essay pays particular attention to the material aspects of preserving records, e.g., the restoration of buildings, construction of chests, and preparation of secure locks that were integral to the emergence of collecting archives for financial documents in the later Middle Ages.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alessandro Silvestri•  18  Archival science, Archives, History Of Information, Financial History (History)Empirical Statecraft: The Emergence of an Information Empire in the Eighteenth-Century Spanish Atlantic"Empirical Statecraft" reconstructs how and why information gathering became a central focus of Spanish imperial governance over the course of the eighteenth century. Convinced that Spain suffered from a shortage of “useful” information,... more"Empirical Statecraft" reconstructs how and why information gathering became a central focus of Spanish imperial governance over the course of the eighteenth century. Convinced that Spain suffered from a shortage of “useful” information, imperial bureaucrats launched numerous research expeditions in order to collect scientific, administrative, and economic information about Spain’s overseas territories. The ultimate goal was to assemble a large information depository that would enable imperial administrators to make informed policy decisions. While Spain had long engaged in colonial information gathering, it was during the eighteenth century that Spanish officials made a deliberate effort to design imperial policy using empirical reports from the colonies. "Empirical Statecraft" weaves the histories of science, imperial governance, colonial information gathering, and the court’s political culture in order to demonstrate that the Spanish Atlantic became a vast and dynamic laboratory of the modern information age, a development that brought to the fore both the promise of knowledge-based governance and the perils of misinformation and distortion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fidel J Tavárez•  20  History of Economic Thought, History of Science, Atlantic World, Iberian StudiesPolitical and Economic News in the Age of Multinationals (Business History Review)This article compares two media multinationals that supplied different genres of news, political and economic. Most media companies provided both genres, and these categories often overlapped. Still, investigating two firms founded in... moreThis article compares two media multinationals that supplied different genres of news, political and economic. Most media companies provided both genres, and these categories often overlapped. Still, investigating two firms founded in twentieth-century Germany shows how product differentiation affects the organization, geographical orientation, and business models of multinationals. While political news had the greatest impact when it was free and ubiquitous, economic news was most effective when it was expensive and exclusive.Save to LibraryDownloadby Heidi  Tworek•  32  Business, Communication, Media Studies, German HistoryReview of David Warsh, Knowledge and the Wealth of NationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Philip Mirowski•  3  History of Economic Thought, History Of Information, Endogenous Growth TheoryInformare e stupire. Racconti di calamità nella Napoli del XVII secolo, in A. Tortora, D. Cassano, S. Cocco (eds.), L’Europa moderna e l’antico Vesuvio, Salerno 2017Inform and amaze. Disaster narratives in 17th century Naples This paper focuses on the political communication in the Kingdom of Naples during the 17th century in the aftermath of major natural disasters. It analyses the narrative... moreInform and amaze. Disaster narratives in 17th century NaplesThis paper focuses on the political communication in the Kingdom of Naples during the 17th century in the aftermath of major natural disasters. It analyses the narrative techniques adopted in official reports to describe extreme events which hit Southern Italy, in order to highlight the strategies adopted by secular and religious authorities to impose their own interpretation of extreme events through the promotion of texts which were intended for a large-scale circulation. Some of the most widespread reports and leaflets printed in the aftermath of the Vesuvius eruption of 1631 will be compared to the texts printed with the encouragement of authorities on the occasion of other major calamities that hit the Kingdom of Naples in the 17th century.Save to LibraryDownloadby Domenico Cecere•  5  Early Modern History, History of the Book, Disaster Studies, History Of Information'Guerra dei Trent'anni e informazione', ed. Filippo de Vivo and Maria Antonietta Visceglia, Rivista storica italiana, 130 (2018)In occasione dei quattrocento anni dallo scoppio della guerra dei Trent'Anni questa sezione tematica della "Rivista Storica Italiana" si propone di dare un contributo ad un filone di ricerca che è andato guadagnando spazio crescente nel... moreIn occasione dei quattrocento anni dallo scoppio della guerra dei Trent'Anni questa sezione tematica della "Rivista Storica Italiana" si propone di dare un contributo ad un filone di ricerca che è andato guadagnando spazio crescente nel dibattito storiografico attuale: quello attinente al rapporto tra guerra e circolazione dell’informazione. Le guerre d'Italia, l'impresa di Lepanto, le guerre civili di Francia, la rivolta delle Fiandre sono state riconsiderate come altrettanti laboratori per verificare in che misura e con quali effetti guerra e informazione politica si intrecciassero - con approcci nuovi, aperti alla considerazione della "multimedialità" e attenti alla dimensione della circolarità al di là delle barriere confessionali e politiche . Come in queste occasioni precedenti, anche la guerra dei Trent’Anni coincise con una notevole intensificazione e diffusione delle informazioni fino a essere, anche, un vero e proprio “evento mediatico”, addirittura secondo alcuni “il primo conflitto europeo a essere combattuto sotto i riflettori dei nuovi mezzi di informazione”.  Ciononostante, il livello di correlazione tra gli eventi bellici e i mezzi di informazione è stato studiato meno che in altri conflitti, e se l’importanza del 1618-48 è stata spesso sollevata dagli storici dell’informazione, viceversa il ruolo di gazzette e libellistica è spesso confinato a poche pagine nelle grandi opere sulla guerra.Save to LibraryDownloadby Filippo de Vivo•  4  Media Studies, Early Modern History, History Of Information, Thirty Years' WarNextLast »Related TopicsSpain (Mediterranean Studies)FollowFollowingItaly (History)FollowFollowingLibraries and CultureFollowFollowingHistory Of Technology (Technology)FollowFollowingHistory of TechnologyFollowFollowingCommunications HistoryFollowFollowingEarly Modern HistoryFollowFollowingHistory of the BookFollowFollowingSpecial CollectionsFollowFollowingOttoman NavyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023