  
The Trinidad Guardian -Online Edition Ver 2.0
39 captures
21 Apr 2008 - 05 Apr 2023
Mar
APR
Sep
21
2007
2008
2009
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: 52_crawl
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20080421181109/http://www.guardian.co.tt:80/archives/2005-11-19/pulse.html
 
Friday 18th November, 2005
 
Peter 
   Ray Blood
 
 
Home
News
Business
Sports
Finance
 
Editorial
Commentary
Opinion
 
Features
Entertainment
Photo 
                          Gallery
 
Sports 
                        Arena 
Womanwise
Business 
                        Guardian
Guardian 
                          In Education
 
Letters
Online 
                        Community
Death 
                        Notices
 
Advertising
Classified 
                        Ads
Jobs 
                        in T&T
Contact 
                        Us
 
Archives
Privacy 
                        Policy
 
 
 
 
The 
                    T&T national football team poses for a team group photo 
                    in Bahrain on Wednesday, before the start of the World Cup 
                    second-leg qualifying playoff match against Bahrain. T&T 
                    won the match 1-0 to win 2-1 on aggregate. (AP photo)
Thanks, 
                    Dennis Lawrence, for giving me—and an entire nation—one 
                    of the most memorable experiences of my life. As he did in 
                    T&T’s 2-0 victory at home against Panama a few months 
                    ago, the lanky former Defence Force defender and Wrexham star 
                    emerged the hero of Wednesday’s play-off in Manama, Bahrain, 
                    when he earned T&T a 1-0 victory with a decisive 49th-minute 
                    header.
 
                    If there was one time I am stumped to write this column it 
                    is this week, as there is so much I want to say, it could 
                    occupy probably an entire newspaper.
 
                    On Wednesday evening, after all the euphoria and heady celebrating, 
                    I sat quietly to reminisce on what the Soca Warriors had achieved 
                    for 1.3 million of us.
 
                    My initial inclination is to gush about the playing of captain 
                    Dwight Yorke (my pick for tournament MVP), Russell Latapy, 
                    Stern John, Aurtis Whitney, Chris Birchall (who scored the 
                    goal of the 12-match tournament last Saturday), Kelvin Jack 
                    et al and the astute direction of coach Leo Beenhakker, who 
                    contributed through the series. But I think I’ll desist 
                    and allow the more qualified sports scribes to “explashiate” 
                    on Wednesday’s historic moment. 
 
                    So I’ve decided to simply reminisce while savouring the 
                    moment.
 
                    I return to my boyhood, and my father taking me to the Queen’s 
                    Park Savannah and Aranguez Savannah for my earliest experiences 
                    as a football spectator. I have been addicted to the game 
                    since then. 
 
                    Wednesday’s victory is a tribute to the old greats of 
                    my lifetime, names like Clive Burnett, Carlton Franco, Alvin 
                    Corneal, Kelvin Berassa, Victor Gamaldo, Leroy de Leon, Lincoln 
                    Phillips, Tyrone de la Bastide, Everald Cummings, Steve David 
                    and Warren Archibald, talented footballers who deserved it 
                    but never realised what the Soca Warriors achieved.
 
                    I reminisce about the national team of 1973, captained by 
                    Selwyn Murren, managed then by Ollie Camps, currently the 
                    TTFF president, who was also the manager of the 1989 Strike 
                    Squad. 
 
                    Having had five goals disallowed in the 1973 qualifier against 
                    Haiti, that national team, too, failed to realise the dream 
                    of placing T&T on the World Cup map.
 
                    I contemplate our much-beloved Strike Squad of 1989, another 
                    World Cup dream turned nightmare, shattered in the 38th minute 
                    of the match by a strike of the boots of USA’s Paul Caligari. 
                    Coached by Cummings, who was previously disappointed in the 
                    1973 campaign, the Strike Squad included some truly talented 
                    players like captain Clayton “JB” Morris, Latapy, 
                    Leonson Lewis, Kerry Jameson, Marvin Faustin, Brian Williams, 
                    Hudson “Baba” Charles, Dexter Francis, and a then 
                    18-year-old Tobago youngster named Yorke.
 
                    I am especially happy for Yorke and Latapy—two survivors 
                    of the 1989 Strike Squad who are now living treasures and 
                    role models for our nation’s youth—an example that 
                    anything can be achieved through belief in oneself, persistence, 
                    discipline and commitment to one’s vocation. Yorke has 
                    etched his name in a special way into World Cup history by 
                    being just one of very few men to lead his national team to 
                    two World Cup finals, having previously led T&T to the 
                    Youth World Cup final in Portugal in 1991. 
 
                    Last but not least, Austin Jack Warner, a man obsessed and 
                    driven for four decades to place his country in the annals 
                    of history, now seeing his dream come true. Remember his famous 
                    quote a few months ago in reference to the campaign: “This 
                    is not for the faint of heart”?
 
                    The one citizen who remained absolutely and stoically certain 
                    that T&T would be in Germany in 2006 was Austin Jack Warner, 
                    and when the final chapter is written about true-blood T&T 
                    patriots, he will have a page all to himself. 
 
                    So, today, while we celebrate our Soca Warriors, let us also 
                    spare a thought for those who went before, those who laid 
                    the foundation for Wednesday’s historic win. I also think 
                    of my late father, who never played football and didn’t 
                    live long enough to experience T&T making it to a World 
                    Cup final, but who passed on the priceless legacy of making 
                    me a football peong, hopelessly and unashamedly addicted to 
                    “the beautiful game.” 
Armed 
                    with his leaf-blower to “blow away Bahrain” and 
                    surrounded by a bevy of beauties is Marlon Brizan, whose theatrics 
                    won him the Ross Advertising all-expense-paid trip to Bahrain 
                    for Wednesday’s game.
Come 
                    to the islands
 I 
                    have not been able to get the melody or the images out of 
                    my head since first seeing the video on the eve of the November 
                    12 playoff World Cup match between T&T and Bahrain. I’m 
                    referring to the Ministry of Tourism video, featuring the 
                    Kernal Roberts/Bunji Garlin composition Come to the Islands 
                    and performed by Bunji and Patrice Roberts.
 
                    The song’s original lyrics were reworked by Roberts and 
                    Ross Advertising bossman Ernie Ross to match the T&T Warriors 
                    campaign, and some beautiful editing was done by Richard Chin 
                    at Video Associates studios. 
 
                    The video was actually the brainchild of Tourism Minister 
                    Howard Chin Lee, who selected the Bunji-Patrice soca hit over 
                    several other possibilities because its lyrics were the most 
                    apt for the cause, not to mention its infectious music. Sherma 
                    Mitchell co-ordinated the entire project on behalf of the 
                    Tourism Ministry.
 
                    Titled “The Caribbean Stomping Ground,” the video 
                    uses a montage of local icons, among them Wendy Fitzwilliam 
                    to Ato Boldon, George Bovell and Brian Lara, blended with 
                    clips showcasing our Carnival, culture, beautiful women, landscape, 
                    ethnic diversity—all the things that make us unique as 
                    a people. 
 
                    A few hours before last Wednesday’s game in Bahrain, 
                    Ross told Pulse that his company did not make the video for 
                    monetary profit, but as “a contribution to the national 
                    football team and the people of T&T.” 
 
                    Ross Advertising also held a competition for the best dramatic 
                    depiction of T&T defeating Bahrain and the prize trip 
                    to Bahrain for Wednesday’s match was won by Marlon Brizan. 
                    
 
                   
                   
                    
                
©2004-2005 Trinidad 
                    Publishing Company Limited 
 Designed 
                    by: Randall 
                    Rajkumar-Maharaj · Updated daily by: Sheahan 
                    Farrell