Portuguese language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
2Geographic distribution
Toggle Geographic distribution subsection
2.1Official status
2.2Lusophone countries
2.3Portuguese as a foreign language
2.4Future
2.5Current status and importance
3Dialects, accents and varieties
Toggle Dialects, accents and varieties subsection
3.1Brazil
3.2Portugal
3.3Other countries and dependencies
3.4Characterization and peculiarities
4Vocabulary
5Classification and related languages
Toggle Classification and related languages subsection
5.1Galician-Portuguese in Spain
5.2Influence on other languages
5.3Derived languages
6Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
6.1Vowels
6.2Consonants
7Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
7.1Writing system
8Sample text
9See also
10References
Toggle References subsection
10.1Citations
10.2Sources
11External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Portuguese language
223 languages
AcèhАдыгэбзэAfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛAnarâškielâअंगिकाÆngliscАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésܐܪܡܝܐArpetanAsturianuAvañe'ẽAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBasa BaliবাংলাBanjarBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीBikol CentralБългарскиBoarischབོད་ཡིགBosanskiBrezhonegБуряадCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaChamoruChavacano de ZamboangaChiShonaCorsuCymraegDanskالدارجةDavvisámegiellaDeutschދިވެހިބަސްDolnoserbskiEestiΕλληνικάEmiliàn e rumagnòlЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraEʋegbeفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskFurlanGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalegoГӀалгӀай贛語गोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HausaHawaiʻiՀայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaInterlingueIñupiatunИронIsiXhosaIsiZuluÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaKabɩyɛಕನ್ನಡKapampanganКъарачай-малкъарქართულიकॉशुर / کٲشُرҚазақшаKernowekIkinyarwandaKiswahiliКомиKongoKreyòl ayisyenKriyòl gwiyannenKurdîКыргызчаLadinLadinoລາວLatgaļuLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschЛезгиLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingálaLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMāoriमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟMinangkabau閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄MirandésМонголမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsNedersaksiesनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語NapulitanoНохчийнNordfriiskNorfuk / PitkernNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandNovialOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀPangasinanپنجابیPapiamentuپښتوPatoisភាសាខ្មែរPicardPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaQırımtatarcaReo tahitiRomânăRumantschRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаGagana Samoaसंस्कृतम्ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsSesotho sa LeboaShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaclḥitТатарча / tatarçaతెలుగుTetunไทยТоҷикӣᏣᎳᎩತುಳುTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVènetoVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükWalonWest-VlamsWinaray吴语XitsongaייִדישYorùbá粵語ZazakiŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikiquoteWikiversityWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Romance language
"Português" redirects here. For the cigarette brand, see Português (cigarette). For the gold coin, see Português (coin).
It has been suggested that Lusitanic and Lusophone be merged into this article. (Discuss) Proposed since May 2023.
PortugueseportuguêsPronunciation[puɾtuˈɣeʃ], [poʁtuˈɡe(j)s]EthnicityLusophones
Portuguese
Brazilians
Luso-Asians
Luso-Africans
SpeakersNative: 230 million (2012–2020)[1]L2: 25 million (2018–2020)[1]Total: 260 million[1]Language familyIndo-European
ItalicLatino-FaliscanRomanceItalo-WesternWestern RomanceIbero-RomanceWest IberianGalician-PortuguesePortugueseEarly formsProto-Indo-European
Proto-Italic
Old Latin
Classical Latin
Vulgar Latin
Galician-Portuguese
Writing system
Latin (Portuguese alphabet)
Portuguese Braille
Signed formsManually coded PortugueseOfficial statusOfficial language in
9 countries
 Angola
 Brazil
 Cape Verde
 East Timor
 Equatorial Guinea[2]
 Guinea-Bissau
 Mozambique
 Portugal
 São Tomé and Príncipe
1 dependency
 Macau (China)
                 
Recognised minoritylanguage in
Cultural language
Uruguay[3][4][5]
 Spain (Galician language)
South Africa
Numerous international organizations
Regulated by
Portugal:Lisbon Academy of Sciences (Lisbon Academy Class of Letters)
Brazil:Academia Brasileira de Letras
Mozambique:Escola Portuguesa de Moçambique (future)
[citation needed]Language codesISO 639-1ptISO 639-2porISO 639-3porGlottologport1283Linguasphere51-AAA-a  Countries and regions where Portuguese is the native language of the majority
  Countries and territories where Portuguese is an official or administrative language but not a majority native language
  Countries and territories where Portuguese is a cultural or secondary languagePortuguese is not endangered according to the classification system of the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in DangerThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Portuguese (português or, in full, língua portuguesa) is a Western Romance language of the Indo-European language family, originating in the Iberian Peninsula of Europe. It is an official language of Portugal, Brazil, Cape Verde, Angola, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau and São Tomé and Príncipe,[6] while having co-official language status in East Timor, Equatorial Guinea, and Macau. A Portuguese-speaking person or nation is referred to as "Lusophone" (lusófono). As the result of expansion during colonial times, a cultural presence of Portuguese speakers is also found around the world. Portuguese is part of the Ibero-Romance group that evolved from several dialects of Vulgar Latin in the medieval Kingdom of Galicia and the County of Portugal, and has kept some Celtic phonology in its lexicon.[7][8]
With approximately 230 million native speakers and 25-30 million second language speakers, Portuguese has approximately 260 million total speakers. It is usually listed as the fifth-most spoken language, the third-most spoken European language in the world in terms of native speakers[9] and the second-most spoken Romance language in the world, surpassed only by Spanish. Being the most widely spoken language in South America[10][11] and all of the Southern Hemisphere,[12] it is also the second-most spoken language, after Spanish, in Latin America, one of the 10 most spoken languages in Africa,[13] and an official language of the European Union, Mercosur, the Organization of American States, the Economic Community of West African States, the African Union, and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, an international organization made up of all of the world's officially Lusophone nations. In 1997, a comprehensive academic study ranked Portuguese as one of the 10 most influential languages in the world.[14][15]
History[edit]
Main article: History of the Portuguese language
See also: Will of Afonso II of Portugal
When the Romans arrived in the Iberian Peninsula in 216 BC, they brought with them the Latin language, from which all Romance languages are descended. The language was spread by Roman soldiers, settlers, and merchants, who built Roman cities mostly near the settlements of previous Celtic civilizations established long before the Roman arrivals. For that reason, the language has kept a relevant substratum of much older, Atlantic European Megalithic Culture[16] and Celtic culture,[17] part of the Hispano-Celtic group of ancient languages.[18] In Latin, the Portuguese language is known as lusitana or (latina) lusitanica, after the Lusitanians, a pre-Celtic tribe that lived in the territory of present-day Portugal and Spain that adopted the Latin language as Roman settlers moved in. This is also the origin of the luso- prefix, seen in terms like "Lusophone".
Between AD 409 and AD 711, as the Roman Empire collapsed in Western Europe, the Iberian Peninsula was conquered by Germanic peoples of the Migration Period. The occupiers, mainly Suebi,[19][20] Visigoths and Buri[21] who originally spoke Germanic languages, quickly adopted late Roman culture and the Vulgar Latin dialects of the peninsula and over the next 300 years totally integrated into the local populations. Some Germanic words from that period are part of the Portuguese lexicon. With the Umayyad conquest beginning in 711, Arabic became the administrative and common language in the conquered regions, but most of the remaining Christian population continued to speak a form of Romance called Mozarabic which introduced a few hundred words from Arabic as well as Persian, Turkish, and Berber.[22] Like other Neo-Latin and European languages, Portuguese has adopted a significant number of loanwords from Greek,[23] mainly in technical and scientific terminology. These borrowings occurred via Latin, and later during the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.
Portuguese evolved from the medieval language, known today by linguists as Galician-Portuguese, Old Portuguese or Old Galician, of the northwestern medieval Kingdom of Galicia of which the County of Portugal was part.[24] Spoken area of Galician-Portuguese (also known as Old Portuguese or Medieval Galician) in the kingdoms of Galicia and León around the 10th century, before the separation of Galician and Portuguese.It is in Latin administrative documents of the 9th century that written Galician-Portuguese words and phrases are first recorded. This phase is known as Proto-Portuguese, which lasted from the 9th century until the 12th-century independence of the County of Portugal from the Kingdom of León, which had by then assumed reign over Galicia.
In the first part of the Galician-Portuguese period (from the 12th to the 14th century), the language was increasingly used for documents and other written forms. For some time, it was the language of preference for lyric poetry in Christian Hispania, much as Occitan was the language of the poetry of the troubadours in France. The Occitan digraphs lh and nh, used in its classical orthography, were adopted by the orthography of Portuguese, presumably by Gerald of Braga,[25] a monk from Moissac, who became bishop of Braga in Portugal in 1047, playing a major role in modernizing written Portuguese using classical Occitan norms.[26] Portugal became an independent kingdom in 1139, under King Afonso I of Portugal. In 1290, King Denis of Portugal created the first Portuguese university in Lisbon (the Estudos Gerais, which later moved to Coimbra) and decreed for Portuguese, then simply called the "common language", to be known as the Portuguese language and used officially.
In the second period of Old Portuguese, in the 15th and 16th centuries, with the Portuguese discoveries, the language was taken to many regions of Africa, Asia, and the Americas. By the mid-16th century, Portuguese had become a lingua franca in Asia and Africa, used not only for colonial administration and trade but also for communication between local officials and Europeans of all nationalities. The Portuguese expanded across South America, across Africa to the Pacific Ocean, taking their language with them.
Its spread was helped by mixed marriages between Portuguese and local people and by its association with Roman Catholic missionary efforts, which led to the formation of creole languages such as that called Kristang in many parts of Asia (from the word cristão, "Christian"). The language continued to be popular in parts of Asia until the 19th century. Some Portuguese-speaking Christian communities in India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, and Indonesia preserved their language even after they were isolated from Portugal.
The end of the Old Portuguese period was marked by the publication of the Cancioneiro Geral by Garcia de Resende, in 1516. The early times of Modern Portuguese, which spans the period from the 16th century to the present day, were characterized by an increase in the number of learned words borrowed from Classical Latin and Classical Greek because of the Renaissance (learned words borrowed from Latin also came from Renaissance Latin, the form of Latin during that time), which greatly enriched the lexicon. Most literate Portuguese speakers were also literate in Latin; and thus they easily adopted Latin words into their writing, and eventually speech, in Portuguese.[27]
Spanish author Miguel de Cervantes once called Portuguese "the sweet and gracious language", while the Brazilian poet Olavo Bilac described it as a última flor do Lácio, inculta e bela ("the last flower of Latium, naïve and beautiful").[28][29][30][31][32] Portuguese is also termed "the language of Camões", after Luís Vaz de Camões, one of the greatest literary figures in the Portuguese language and author of the Portuguese epic poem The Lusiads.[33][34][35]
In March 2006, the Museum of the Portuguese Language, an interactive museum about the Portuguese language, was founded in São Paulo, Brazil, the city with the greatest number of Portuguese language speakers in the world.[36] The museum is the first of its kind in the world.[36] In 2015 the museum was partially destroyed in a fire,[37] but restored and reopened in 2020.[38]
Geographic distribution[edit]
Main articles: List of countries and territories where Portuguese is an official language and Geographical distribution of Portuguese speakers
Sign in Japanese, Portuguese, and English in Oizumi, Japan, which has a large lusophone community due to return immigration of Japanese Brazilians.[39]
Portuguese is spoken by approximately 200 million people in South America, 30 million in Africa, 15 million in Europe, 5 million in North America and 0.33 million in Asia and Oceania.
Portuguese is the native language of the vast majority of the people in Portugal,[40] Brazil[41] and São Tomé and Príncipe (95%).[42] Perhaps 75% of the population of urban Angola speaks Portuguese natively,[43] with approximately 85% fluent; these rates are lower in the countryside.[44] Just over 50% (and rapidly increasing) of the population of Mozambique are native speakers of Portuguese, and 70% are fluent, according to the 2007 census.[45] Portuguese is also spoken natively by 30% of the population in Guinea-Bissau, and a Portuguese-based creole is understood by all.[46] Almost 50% of the East Timorese are fluent in Portuguese. No data is available for Cape Verde, but almost all the population is bilingual, and the monolingual population speaks the Portuguese-based Cape Verdean Creole.  Portuguese is mentioned in the Constitution of South Africa as one of the languages spoken by communities within the country for which the Pan South African Language Board was charged with promoting and ensuring respect.[47]
There are also significant Portuguese-speaking immigrant communities in many countries including Andorra (17.1%),[48] Bermuda,[49] Canada (400,275 people in the 2006 census),[50] France (1,625,000 people),[51] Japan (400,000 people),[52] Jersey,[53] Luxembourg (about 25% of the population as of 2021), Namibia (about 4–5% of the population, mainly refugees from Angola in the north of the country),[54] Paraguay (10.7% or 636,000 people),[55] Switzerland (550,000 in 2019, learning + mother tongue),[56] Venezuela (554,000),[57] and the United States (0.35% of the population or 1,228,126 speakers according to the 2007 American Community Survey).[58]
In some parts of former Portuguese India, namely Goa[59] and Daman and Diu,[60] the language is still spoken by about 10,000 people. In 2014, an estimated 1,500 students were learning Portuguese in Goa.[61] Approximately 2% of the people of Macau, China are fluent speakers of Portuguese. Additionally, the language is being very actively studied in the Chinese school system right up to the doctorate level. The Kristang people in Malaysia speak Kristang, a Portuguese-Malay creole; however, the Portuguese language itself is not widely spoken in the country.
Official status[edit]
Main article: List of countries and territories where Portuguese is an official language
Countries and regions where Portuguese has official status.
The Community of Portuguese Language Countries[6]
(in Portuguese Comunidade dos Países de Língua Portuguesa, with the Portuguese acronym CPLP) consists of the nine independent countries that have Portuguese as an official language: Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, East Timor, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal and São Tomé and Príncipe.[6]
Equatorial Guinea made a formal application for full membership to the CPLP in June 2010, a status given only to states with Portuguese as an official language.[62] In 2011, Portuguese became its third official language (besides Spanish and French)[63] and, in July 2014, the country was accepted as a member of the CPLP.[64]
Portuguese is also one of the official languages of the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China of Macau (alongside Chinese) and of several international organizations, including Mercosur,[65] the Organization of Ibero-American States,[66] the Union of South American Nations,[67] the Organization of American States,[68] the African Union,[69] the Economic Community of West African States,[69] the Southern African Development Community[69] and the European Union.[70]
Lusophone countries[edit]
According to The World Factbook's country population estimates for 2018, the population of each of the ten jurisdictions is as follows (by descending order):
Country
Population of country[71][72][73]
More information
Native languageof the majority
Spoken by
 Brazil
203,062,512
Portuguese in Brazil
95% as a native language[74]
 Angola
35,981,281
Portuguese in Angola
40% as a native language, 60% total[75]
 Mozambique
32,513,805
Portuguese in Mozambique
17% as a native language, 44% total[76]
 Portugal
10,467,366
Portuguese in Portugal
95% as a native language[77]
 Guinea-Bissau
2,078,820
Portuguese in Guinea-Bissau
0.3% as a native language, 20% total[78]
 Equatorial Guinea2
1,679,172
Portuguese in Equatorial Guinea
Small minority as a second language
 East Timor
1,340,513
Portuguese in East Timor
0.1% as a first language; 5% total[79]
 Macau1
682,300
Portuguese in Macau
0.5% as a native language, 3% total[80]
 Cape Verde
561,901
Portuguese in Cape Verde
2% as a native language, 48% total[81]
 São Tomé and Príncipe
220,372
Portuguese in São Tomé and Príncipe
65% as a native language, 99% total[82]
Total
288,588,042
Community of Portuguese Language Countries
Notes:
Macau is one of the two autonomous Special Administrative Regions of the People's Republic of China (the other being Anglophone Hong Kong, a former British colony).
Equatorial Guinea adopted Portuguese as one of its official languages in 2007, being admitted to CPLP in 2014. The use of the Portuguese language in this country is limited.
The combined population of the entire Lusophone area was estimated at 300 million in January 2022.[73][72][83] This number does not include the Lusophone diaspora, estimated at 10 million people (including 4.5 million Portuguese, 3 million Brazilians, although it is hard to obtain official accurate numbers of diasporic Portuguese speakers because a significant portion of these citizens are naturalized citizens born outside of Lusophone territory or are children of immigrants, and may have only a basic command of the language. Additionally, a large part of the diaspora is a part of the already-counted population of the Portuguese-speaking countries and territories, such as the high number of Brazilian and PALOP emigrant citizens in Portugal or the high number of Portuguese emigrant citizens in the PALOP and Brazil.
The Portuguese language therefore serves more than 250 million people daily, who have direct or indirect legal, juridical and social contact with it, varying from the only language used in any contact, to only education, contact with local or international administration, commerce and services or the simple sight of road signs, public information and advertising in Portuguese.
Portuguese as a foreign language[edit]
Portuguese is a mandatory subject in the school curriculum in Uruguay.[84] Other countries where Portuguese is commonly taught in schools or where it has been introduced as an option include Venezuela,[85] Zambia,[86] the Republic of the Congo,[87] Senegal,[87] Namibia,[54] Eswatini,[87] South Africa,[87] Ivory Coast,[88] and Mauritius.[89] In 2017, a project was launched to introduce Portuguese as a school subject in Zimbabwe.[90][91] Also, according to Portugal's Minister of Foreign Affairs, the language will be part of the school curriculum of a total of 32 countries by 2020.[92] In the countries listed below, Portuguese is spoken either as a native language by vast majorities due to the Portuguese colonial past or as a lingua franca in bordering and multilingual regions, such as on the border between Brazil and Uruguay & Paraguay, as well as Angola and Namibia. In many other countries, Portuguese is spoken by majorities as a second language. And there are still communities of thousands of Portuguese (or Creole) first language speakers in Goa, Sri Lanka, Kuala Lumpur, Daman and Diu, etc. due to Portuguese colonization. In East Timor, the number of Portuguese speakers is quickly increasing as Portuguese and Brazilian teachers are making great strides in teaching Portuguese in the schools all over the island.[93] Additionally, there are many large Portuguese immigrant communities all over the world.
Country
Population[94](July 2017 est.)
More information
Mandatory taught
Spoken by
 Uruguay
3,444,006
Portuguese in Uruguay
Significant minority as a native language; significant minority as a second language
 Argentina
43,847,430
Portuguese in Argentina
Minority as a second language
 Paraguay
7,052,984
Portuguese in Paraguay
Significant minority as a native language
 Venezuela
31,568,179
Portuguese in Venezuela
Minority as a second language
 South Africa
57,725,600
Portuguese in South Africa
Small minority as a native language
 Namibia
2,606,971
Portuguese in Namibia
Small minority as a native language
 Congo
5,125,821
Portuguese in Congo
Small minority as a second language
 Zambia
16,591,390
Portuguese in Zambia
Small minority as a second language
 Senegal
15,411,614
Portuguese in Senegal
Small minority as a second language
 Eswatini
1,343,098
Portuguese in Eswatini
Small minority as a second language
Future[edit]
Multilingual signage in Chinese, Portuguese and English at the Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge port building in Macau. Portuguese is a co-official language in Macau.
According to estimates by UNESCO, Portuguese is the fastest-growing European language after English and the language has, according to the newspaper The Portugal News publishing data given from UNESCO, the highest potential for growth as an international language in southern Africa and South America.[95] Portuguese is a globalized language spoken officially on five continents, and as a second language by millions worldwide.
Since 1991, when Brazil signed into the economic community of Mercosul with other South American nations, namely Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay, Portuguese is either mandatory, or taught, in the schools of those South American countries. 
Although early in the 21st century, after Macau was returned to China and immigration of Brazilians of Japanese descent to Japan slowed down, the use of Portuguese was in decline in Asia, it is once again becoming a language of opportunity there, mostly because of increased diplomatic and financial ties with economically powerful Portuguese-speaking countries in the world.[96][97]
Current status and importance[edit]
Portuguese, being a language spread on all continents, is official in several international organizations; one of twenty official languages of the European Union, an official language of NATO, the Organization of American States (alongside Spanish, French and English), and one of eighteen official languages of the European Space Agency.
It is also a working language in nonprofit organisations such as the Red Cross (alongside English, German, Spanish, French, Arabic and Russian), Amnesty International (alongside 32 other languages of which English is the most used, followed by Spanish, French, German, and Italian), and Médecins sans Frontières (used alongside English, Spanish, French and Arabic), in addition to being the official legal language in the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights, also in Community of Portuguese Language Countries, an international organization formed essentially by lusophone countries.
Dialects, accents and varieties[edit]
Main article: Portuguese dialects
Ethnically diverse East Timor has Portuguese as one of its official languages.
Você, a pronoun meaning "you", is used for educated, formal, and colloquial respectful speech in most Portuguese-speaking regions. In a few Brazilian states such as Rio Grande do Sul, Pará, among others, você is virtually absent from the spoken language. Riograndense and European Portuguese normally distinguishes formal from informal speech by verbal conjugation. Informal speech employs tu followed by second person verbs, formal language retains the formal você, followed by the third person conjugation.
Conjugation of verbs in tu has three different forms in Brazil (verb "to see": tu viste?, in the traditional second person, tu viu?, in the third person, and tu visse?, in the innovative second person), the conjugation used in the Brazilian states of Pará, Santa Catarina and Maranhão being generally traditional second person, the kind that is used in other Portuguese-speaking countries and learned in Brazilian schools.
The predominance of Southeastern-based media products has established você as the pronoun of choice for the second person singular in both writing and multimedia communications. However, in the city of Rio de Janeiro, the country's main cultural center, the usage of tu has been expanding ever since the end of the 20th century,[98] being most frequent among youngsters, and a number of studies have also shown an increase in its use in a number of other Brazilian dialects.[99][100]
The status of second person pronouns in Brazil.    Near exclusive use of você (greater than 96%)  Decidedly predominant use of tu (greater than 80%), but with near exclusive third person (você-like) verbal conjugation.  50-50 você/tu variation, with tu being nearly always accompanied by third person (você-like) verbal conjugation.  Decidedly predominant to near exclusive use of tu (76% to 95%) with reasonable frequency of second person (tu-like) verbal conjugation.  Balanced você/tu distribution, being tu exclusively accompanied by third person (você-like) verbal conjugation.  Balanced você/tu distribution, tu being predominantly accompanied by third person (você-like) verbal conjugation.  No data        
Statue of the Portuguese Poet Luís de Camões at the entrance of the Real Gabinete Português de Leitura in Rio de Janeiro.
Museum of the Portuguese Language in São Paulo.
Modern Standard European Portuguese (português padrão[101] or português continental) is based on the Portuguese spoken in the area including and surrounding the cities of Coimbra and Lisbon, in central Portugal. Standard European Portuguese is also the preferred standard by the Portuguese-speaking African countries. As such, and despite the fact that its speakers are dispersed around the world, Portuguese has only two dialects used for learning: the European and the Brazilian. Some aspects and sounds found in many dialects of Brazil are exclusive to South America, and cannot be found in Europe. The same occur with the Santomean, Mozambican, Bissau-Guinean, Angolan and Cape Verdean dialects, being exclusive to Africa. See Portuguese in Africa.
Audio samples of some dialects and accents of Portuguese are available below.[102] There are some differences between the areas but these are the best approximations possible. IPA transcriptions refer to the names in local pronunciation.
Brazil[edit]
Caipira – Spoken in the states of São Paulo (most markedly on the countryside and rural areas); southern Minas Gerais, northern Paraná and southeastern Mato Grosso do Sul. Depending on the vision of what constitutes caipira, Triângulo Mineiro, border areas of Goiás and the remaining parts of Mato Grosso do Sul are included, and the frontier of caipira in Minas Gerais is expanded further northerly, though not reaching metropolitan Belo Horizonte. It is often said that caipira appeared by decreolization of the língua brasílica and the related língua geral paulista, then spoken in almost all of what is now São Paulo, a former lingua franca in most of the contemporary Centro-Sul of Brazil before the 18th century, brought by the bandeirantes, interior pioneers of Colonial Brazil, closely related to its northern counterpart Nheengatu, and that is why the dialect shows many general differences from other variants of the language.[103] It has striking remarkable differences in comparison to other Brazilian dialects in phonology, prosody and grammar, often stigmatized as being strongly associated with a substandard variant, now mostly rural.[104][105][106][107][108]
Cearense or Costa norte – is a dialect spoken more sharply in the states of Ceará and Piauí. The variant of Ceará includes fairly distinctive traits it shares with the one spoken in Piauí, though, such as distinctive regional phonology and vocabulary (for example, a debuccalization process stronger than that of Portuguese, a different system of the vowel harmony that spans Brazil from fluminense and mineiro to amazofonia but is especially prevalent in nordestino, a very coherent coda sibilant palatalization as those of Portugal and Rio de Janeiro but allowed in fewer environments than in other accents of nordestino, a greater presence of dental stop palatalization to palato-alveolar in comparison to other accents of nordestino, among others, as well as a great number of archaic Portuguese words).[109][110][111][112][113][114]
Baiano – Found in Bahia and border regions with Goiás and Tocantins. Similar to nordestino, it has a very characteristic syllable-timed rhythm and the greatest tendency to pronounce unstressed vowels as open-mid [ɛ] and [ɔ].Variants and sociolects of Brazilian Portuguese.]
 Fluminense – A broad dialect with many variants spoken in the states of Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo and neighboring eastern regions of Minas Gerais. Fluminense formed in these previously caipira-speaking areas due to the gradual influence of European migrants, causing many people to distance their speech from their original dialect and incorporate new terms.[115] Fluminense is sometimes referred to as carioca, however carioca is a more specific term referring to the accent of the Greater Rio de Janeiro area by speakers with a fluminense dialect.
Gaúcho – in Rio Grande do Sul, similar to sulista. There are many distinct accents in Rio Grande do Sul, mainly due to the heavy influx of European immigrants of diverse origins who have settled in colonies throughout the state, and to the proximity to Spanish-speaking nations. The gaúcho word in itself is a Spanish loanword into Portuguese of obscure Indigenous Amerindian origins.
Linguistic map of the state of Minas Gerais, according to the scientific study Esboço de um Atlas Linguístico de Minas Gerais (EALMG), "Draft of a Linguistic Atlas for Minas Gerais". Federal University of Juiz de Fora, 1977. The light zone speaks mineiro, the intermeadite zone caipira, the dark zone baiano.Mineiro – Minas Gerais (not prevalent in the Triângulo Mineiro). As the fluminense area, its associated region was formerly a sparsely populated land where caipira was spoken, but the discovery of gold and gems made it the most prosperous Brazilian region, what attracted Portuguese colonists, commoners from other parts of Brazil and their African slaves. South-southwestern, southeastern and northern areas of the state have fairly distinctive speech, actually approximating to caipira, fluminense (popularly called, often pejoratively, carioca do brejo, "marsh carioca") and baiano respectively. Areas including and surrounding Belo Horizonte have a distinctive accent.
 Nordestino[116] – more marked in the Sertão (7), where, in the 19th and 20th centuries and especially in the area including and surrounding the sertão (the dry land after Agreste) of Pernambuco and southern Ceará, it could sound less comprehensible to speakers of other Portuguese dialects than Galician or Rioplatense Spanish, and nowadays less distinctive from other variants in the metropolitan cities along the coasts. It can be divided in two regional variants, one that includes the northern Maranhão and southern of Piauí, and other that goes from Ceará to Alagoas.
Nortista or amazofonia – Most of Amazon Basin states, i.e. Northern Brazil. Before the 20th century, most people from the nordestino area fleeing the droughts and their associated poverty settled here, so it has some similarities with the Portuguese dialect there spoken. The speech in and around the cities of Belém and Manaus has a more European flavor in phonology, prosody and grammar.
Paulistano – Variants spoken around Greater São Paulo in its maximum definition and more easterly areas of São Paulo state, as well as perhaps "educated speech" from anywhere in the state of São Paulo (where it coexists with caipira). Caipira is the hinterland sociolect of much of the Central-Southern half of Brazil, nowadays conservative only in the rural areas and associated with them, that has a historically low prestige in cities as Rio de Janeiro, Curitiba, Belo Horizonte, and until some years ago, in São Paulo itself. Sociolinguistics, or what by times is described as "linguistic prejudice", often correlated with classism,[117][118][119] is a polemic topic in the entirety of the country since the times of Adoniran Barbosa. Also, the "Paulistano" accent was heavily influenced by the presence of immigrants in the city of São Paulo, especially the Italians.
Sertanejo – Center-Western states, and also much of Tocantins and Rondônia. It is closer to mineiro, caipira, nordestino or nortista depending on the location.
Sulista – The variants spoken in the areas between the northern regions of Rio Grande do Sul and southern regions of São Paulo state, encompassing most of southern Brazil. The city of Curitiba does have a fairly distinct accent as well, and a relative majority of speakers around and in Florianópolis also speak this variant (many speak florianopolitano or manezinho da ilha instead, related to the European Portuguese dialects spoken in Azores and Madeira). Speech of northern Paraná is closer to that of inland São Paulo.
Florianopolitano – Variants heavily influenced by European Portuguese spoken in Florianópolis city (due to a heavy immigration movement from Portugal, mainly its insular regions) and much of its metropolitan area, Grande Florianópolis, said to be a continuum between those whose speech most resemble sulista dialects and those whose speech most resemble fluminense and European ones, called, often pejoratively, manezinho da ilha.
Carioca – Not a dialect, but sociolects of the fluminense variant spoken in an area roughly corresponding to Greater Rio de Janeiro. It appeared after locals came in contact with the Portuguese aristocracy amidst the Portuguese royal family fled in the early 19th century. There is actually a continuum between Vernacular countryside accents and the carioca sociolect, and the educated speech (in Portuguese norma culta, which most closely resembles other Brazilian Portuguese standards but with marked recent Portuguese influences, the nearest ones among the country's dialects along florianopolitano), so that not all people native to the state of Rio de Janeiro speak the said sociolect, but most carioca speakers will use the standard variant not influenced by it that is rather uniform around Brazil depending on context (emphasis or formality, for example).
Brasiliense – used in Brasília and its metropolitan area.[120] It is not considered a dialect, but more of a regional variant – often deemed to be closer to fluminense than the dialect commonly spoken in most of Goiás, sertanejo.
Arco do desflorestamento or serra amazônica –  Known in its region as the "accent of the migrants", it has similarities with caipira, sertanejo and often sulista that make it differing from amazofonia (in the opposite group of Brazilian dialects, in which it is placed along nordestino, baiano, mineiro and fluminense). It is the most recent dialect, which appeared by the settlement of families from various other Brazilian regions attracted by the cheap land offer in recently deforested areas.[121]
Recifense – used in Recife and its metropolitan area.
Amazônico Ocidental — used in the extreme Western Amazon region, namely:  Southwestern Amazonas, including the region of Boca do Acre and throughout the State of Acre, which share important historical-cultural aspects, such as, once belonging to Peru-Bolivian Confederation , the First Amazon rubber cycle and Acre Time Zone, sociologically, is considered a homogenous region. Differing from the traditional Northern dialect, in which the phonetic realization of the "s" always has the sound of ch, in the Brazilian Western Amazon region, there will only be the sound of ch whose words the "s" are in the middle of the word, as examples; costa, festa or destino, as well as the one observed in dialect of the north coast. Within the Brazilian countryside, it is one of the few areas where the phonetic realization of "r" resembles those observed in the Carioca dialect (open), other  examples where this phenomenon is observed: Brasília dialect and Belo Horizonte dialect.[122]
Portugal[edit]
Portugal's Portuguese Dialects.
Percentage of worldwide Portuguese speakers per country.
The main post office building of Macau
 Micaelense (Açores) (São Miguel) – Azores.
 Alentejano – Alentejo (Alentejan Portuguese), with the Oliventine subdialect.
 Algarvio – Algarve (there is a particular dialect in a small part of western Algarve).
 Minhoto – Districts of Braga and Viana do Castelo (hinterland).
 Beirão; Alto-Alentejano – Central Portugal (hinterland).
 Beirão – Central Portugal.
 Estremenho – Regions of Coimbra and Lisbon (this is a disputed denomination, as Coimbra and is not part of "Estremadura", and the Lisbon dialect has some peculiar features that are not only not shared with that of Coimbra, but also significantly distinct and recognizable to most native speakers from elsewhere in Portugal).
 Madeirense (Madeiran) – Madeira.
 Portuense – Regions of the district of Porto and parts of Aveiro.
 Transmontano – Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro.
Other countries and dependencies[edit]
 Angola –  Angolano Archived 6 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine (Angolan Portuguese)
 Cape Verde –  Cabo-verdiano (Cape Verdean Portuguese)
 East Timor –  Timorense (East Timorese Portuguese)
 India – Damaense (Damanese Portuguese) and Goês (Goan Portuguese)
 Guinea-Bissau –  Guineense (Guinean Portuguese)
 Macau –  Macaense (Macanese Portuguese)
 Mozambique –  Moçambicano (Mozambican Portuguese)
 São Tomé and Príncipe –  Santomense (São Tomean Portuguese)
 Uruguay – Dialectos Portugueses del Uruguay (DPU)
Differences between dialects are mostly of accent and vocabulary, but between the Brazilian dialects and other dialects, especially in their most colloquial forms, there can also be some grammatical differences. The Portuguese-based creoles spoken in various parts of Africa, Asia, and the Americas are independent languages.
Characterization and peculiarities[edit]
Portuguese, like Catalan, preserves the stressed vowels of Vulgar Latin which became diphthongs in most other Romance languages; cf. Port., Cat., Sard. pedra ; Fr. pierre, Sp. piedra, It. pietra, Ro. piatră, from Lat. petra ("stone"); or Port. fogo, Cat. foc, Sard. fogu; Sp. fuego, It. fuoco, Fr. feu, Ro. foc, from Lat. focus ("fire"). Another characteristic of early Portuguese was the loss of intervocalic l and n, sometimes followed by the merger of the two surrounding vowels, or by the insertion of an epenthetic vowel between them: cf. Lat. salire ("to exit"), tenere ("to have"), catena ("jail"), Port. sair, ter, cadeia.
When the elided consonant was n, it often nasalized the preceding vowel: cf. Lat. manum ("hand"), ranam ("frog"), bonum ("good"), Old Portuguese mão, rãa, bõo (Portuguese: mão, rã, bom). This process was the source of most of the language's distinctive nasal diphthongs. In particular, the Latin endings -anem, -anum and -onem became -ão in most cases, cf. Lat. canis ("dog"), germanus ("brother"), ratio ("reason") with Modern Port. cão, irmão, razão, and their plurals -anes, -anos, -ones normally became -ães, -ãos, -ões, cf. cães, irmãos, razões. This also occurs in the minority Swiss Romansh language in many equivalent words such as maun ("hand"), bun ("good"), or chaun ("dog").[123]
The Portuguese language is the only Romance language that preserves the clitic case mesoclisis: cf. dar-te-ei (I'll give thee), amar-te-ei (I'll love you), contactá-los-ei (I'll contact them). Like Galician, it also retains the Latin synthetic pluperfect tense: eu estivera (I had been), eu vivera (I had lived), vós vivêreis (you had lived).[124] Romanian also has this tense, but uses the -s- form.
Vocabulary[edit]
Main article: Portuguese vocabulary
Linguistic map of Pre-Roman Iberia.
The Bissau-Guinean Presidential Palace, with its Portuguese colonial architecture, is a building that has a library, a small theater and was formerly the palace of the colonial governor of Portuguese-Guinea, seen from the PAIGC-building (formerly the seat of the local commercial association Associação Comercial, Industrial e Agrícola de Bissau), located at the Praça dos Heróis Nacionais square (formerly Praça do Império square), in downtown Bissau.
Most of the lexicon of Portuguese is derived, directly or through other Romance languages, from Latin. Nevertheless, because of its original Lusitanian and Celtic Gallaecian heritage, and the later participation of Portugal in the Age of Discovery, it has a relevant number of words from the ancient Hispano-Celtic group[18] and adopted loanwords from other languages around the world.
A number of Portuguese words can still be traced to the pre-Roman inhabitants of Portugal, which included the Gallaeci, Lusitanians, Celtici and Cynetes. Most of these words derived from the Hispano-Celtic Gallaecian language of northwestern Iberia, and are very often shared with Galician since both languages have the same origin in the medieval language of Galician-Portuguese. A few of these words existed in Latin as loanwords from other Celtic sources, often Gaulish. Altogether these are over 2,000 words, some verbs and toponymic names of towns, rivers, utensils and plants.
In the 5th century, the Iberian Peninsula (the Roman Hispania) was conquered by the Germanic, Suebi and Visigoths. As they adopted the Roman civilization and language, however, these people contributed with some 500 
Germanic words to the lexicon. Many of these words are related to:
warfare, such as espora 'spur', estaca ('stake'), and guerra ('war'), from Gothic *spaúra, *stakka, and *wirro respectively;
natural world, such as suino ('swine') from *sweina, gavião ('hawk') from *gabilans, vaga ('wave') from *vigan;
human emotions, such as orgulho or orgulhoso ('pride', 'proud') from Old Germanic *urguol, and
verbs like gravar ('to craft, record, graft') from *graba or esmagar ('to squeeze, quash, grind') from Suebian *magōn or esfarrapar ('to shred') from *harpō.
The Germanic languages influence also exists in toponymic surnames and patronymic surnames borne by Visigoth sovereigns and their descendants, and it dwells on placenames such as Ermesinde, Esposende and Resende where sinde and sende are derived from the Germanic sinths ('military expedition') and in the case of Resende, the prefix re comes from Germanic reths ('council'). Other examples of Portuguese names, surnames and town names of Germanic toponymic origin include Henrique, Henriques, Vermoim, Mandim, Calquim, Baguim, Gemunde, Guetim, Sermonde and many more, are quite common mainly in the old Suebi and later Visigothic dominated regions, covering today's Northern half of Portugal and Galicia.
Between the 9th and early 13th centuries, Portuguese acquired some 400 to 600 words from Arabic by influence of Moorish Iberia. They are often recognizable by the initial Arabic article a(l)-, and include common words such as aldeia ('village') from الضيعة aḍ-ḍayʿa, alface ('lettuce') from الخسة al-khassa, armazém ('warehouse') from المخزن al-makhzan, and azeite ('olive oil') from الزيت az-zayt.
A sign at Goa Central Library, in Panaji, India, listing three Portuguese-language newspapers
Starting in the 15th century, the Portuguese maritime explorations led to the introduction of many loanwords from Asian languages. For instance, catana ('cutlass') from Japanese katana, chá ('tea') from Chinese chá, and canja[125] ('chicken-soup, piece of cake') from Malay.
From the 16th to the 19th centuries, because of the role of Portugal as intermediary in the Atlantic slave trade, and the establishment of large Portuguese colonies in Angola, Mozambique, and Brazil, Portuguese acquired several words of African and Amerind origin, especially names for most of the animals and plants found in those territories. While those terms are mostly used in the former colonies, many became current in European Portuguese as well. From Kimbundu, for example, came kifumate > cafuné ('head caress') (Brazil), kusula > caçula ('youngest child') (Brazil), marimbondo ('tropical wasp') (Brazil), and kubungula > bungular ('to dance like a wizard') (Angola). From South America came batata ('potato'), from Taino; ananás and abacaxi, from Tupi–Guarani naná and Tupi ibá cati, respectively (two species of pineapple), and pipoca ('popcorn') from Tupi and tucano ('toucan') from Guarani tucan.
Finally, it has received a steady influx of loanwords from other European languages, especially French and English. These are by far the most important languages when referring to loanwords. There are many examples such as: colchete/crochê ('bracket'/'crochet'), paletó ('jacket'), batom ('lipstick'), and filé/filete ('steak'/'slice'), rua ('street'), respectively, from French crochet, paletot, bâton, filet, rue; and bife ('steak'), futebol, revólver, stock/estoque, folclore, from English "beef", "football", "revolver", "stock", "folklore."
Examples from other European languages: macarrão ('pasta'), piloto ('pilot'), carroça ('carriage'), and barraca ('barrack'), from Italian maccherone, pilota, carrozza, and baracca; melena ('hair lock'), fiambre ('wet-cured ham') (in Portugal, in contrast with presunto 'dry-cured ham' from Latin prae-exsuctus 'dehydrated') or ('canned ham') (in Brazil, in contrast with non-canned, wet-cured (presunto cozido) and dry-cured (presunto cru)), or castelhano ('Castilian'), from Spanish melena ('mane'), fiambre and castellano.
Classification and related languages[edit]
Map showing the historical retreat and expansion of Portuguese (Galician-Portuguese) within the context of its linguistic neighbors between the year 1000 and 2000. Map showing mostly contemporary West Iberian and Occitano-Romance languages, as well many of their mainland European dialects (areas colored green, gold or pink/purple represent languages deemed endangered by UNESCO, so this may be outdated in less than a few decades). It shows European Portuguese, Galician, Eonavian, Mirandese and the Fala as not only closely related but as dialect continuum, though it excludes dialects spoken in insular Portugal (Azores and Madeira–Canaries is not shown either).[image reference needed]
Main articles: Iberian Romance languages, Galician-Portuguese, and Comparison of Spanish and Portuguese
Portuguese belongs to the West Iberian branch of the Romance languages, and it has special ties with the following members of this group:
Galician, Fala and portunhol do pampa (the way riverense and its sibling dialects are referred to in Portuguese), its closest relatives.
Mirandese, Leonese, Asturian, Extremaduran and Cantabrian (Astur-Leonese languages). Mirandese is the only recognised regional language spoken in Portugal (beside Portuguese, the only official language in Portugal).
Spanish and calão (the way caló, language of the Iberian Romani, is referred to in Portuguese).
Portuguese and other Romance languages (namely French and Italian) share considerable similarities in both vocabulary and grammar. Portuguese speakers will usually need some formal study before attaining strong comprehension in those Romance languages, and vice versa. However, Portuguese and Galician are fully mutually intelligible, and Spanish is considerably intelligible for lusophones, owing to their genealogical proximity and shared genealogical history as West Iberian (Ibero-Romance languages), historical contact between speakers and mutual influence, shared areal features as well as modern lexical, structural, and grammatical similarity (89%) between them.[126][127][128][129][130]
Portuñol/Portunhol, a form of code-switching, has a more lively use and is more readily mentioned in popular culture in South America. Said code-switching is not to be confused with the Portuñol spoken on the borders of Brazil with Uruguay (dialeto do pampa) and Paraguay (dialeto dos brasiguaios), and of Portugal with Spain (barranquenho), that are Portuguese dialects spoken natively by thousands of people, which have been heavily influenced by Spanish.[131]
Portuguese and Spanish are the only Ibero-Romance languages, and perhaps the only Romance languages with such thriving inter-language forms, in which visible and lively bilingual contact dialects and code-switching have formed, in which functional bilingual communication is achieved through attempting an approximation to the target foreign language (known as 'Portuñol') without a learned acquisition process, but nevertheless facilitates communication. There is an emerging literature focused on such phenomena (including informal attempts of standardization of the linguistic continua and their usage).[131]
Galician-Portuguese in Spain[edit]
See also: Reintegrationism
The closest relative of Portuguese is Galician, which is spoken in the autonomous community (region) and historical nationality of Galicia (northwestern Spain). The two were at one time a single language, known today as Galician-Portuguese, but they have diverged especially in pronunciation and vocabulary due to the political separation of Portugal from Galicia. There is, however, still a linguistic continuity consisting of the variant of Galician referred to as galego-português baixo-limiao, which is spoken in several Galician and Portuguese villages within the transboundary biosphere reserve of Gerês-Xurés. It is "considered a rarity, a living vestige of the medieval language that ranged from Cantabria to Mondego [...]".[132]
As reported by UNESCO, due to the pressure of Spanish on the standard official version of Galician and centuries-old Hispanization, the Galician language was on the verge of disappearing.[132] According to the UNESCO philologist Tapani Salminen, the proximity to Portuguese protects Galician.[133] The core vocabulary and grammar of Galician are noticeably closer to Portuguese than to those of Spanish and within the EU context, Galician is often considered the same language as Portuguese.[134] Galician like Portuguese, uses the future subjunctive, the personal infinitive, and the synthetic pluperfect. Mutual intelligibility estimated at 85% is excellent between Galicians and Portuguese.[135] Despite political efforts in Spain to define them as separate languages, many linguists consider Galician to be a co-dialect of the Portuguese language with regional variations.[136][134]
Another member of the Galician-Portuguese group, most commonly thought of as a Galician dialect, is spoken in the Eonavian region in a western strip in Asturias and the westernmost parts of the provinces of León and Zamora, along the frontier with Galicia, between the Eo and Navia rivers (or more exactly Eo and Frexulfe rivers). It is called eonaviego or gallego-asturiano by its speakers.
The Fala language, known by its speakers as xalimés, mañegu, a fala de Xálima and chapurráu and in Portuguese as a fala de Xálima, a fala da Estremadura, o galego da Estremadura, valego or galaico-estremenho, is another descendant of Galician-Portuguese, spoken by a small number of people in the Spanish towns of Valverde del Fresno (Valverdi du Fresnu), Eljas (As Ellas) and San Martín de Trevejo (Sa Martín de Trevellu) in the autonomous community of Extremadura, near the border with Portugal.
There are a number of other places in Spain in which the native language of the common people is a descendant of the Galician-Portuguese group, such as La Alamedilla, Cedillo (Cedilho), Herrera de Alcántara (Ferreira d'Alcântara) and Olivenza (Olivença), but in these municipalities, what is spoken is actually Portuguese, not disputed as such in the mainstream.
The diversity of dialects of the Portuguese language is known since the time of medieval Portuguese-Galician language when it coexisted with the Lusitanian-Mozarabic dialect, spoken in the south of Portugal. The dialectal diversity becomes more evident in the work of Fernão d'Oliveira, in the Grammatica da Lingoagem Portuguesa, (1536), where he remarks that the people of Portuguese regions of Beira, Alentejo, Estremadura, and Entre Douro e Minho, all speak differently from each other. Also Contador d'Argote (1725) distinguishes three main varieties of dialects: the local dialects, the dialects of time, and of profession (work jargon). Of local dialects he highlights five main dialects: the dialect of Estremadura, of Entre-Douro e Minho, of Beira, of Algarve and of Trás-os-Montes. He also makes reference to the overseas dialects, the rustic dialects, the poetic dialect and that of prose.[citation needed]
In the kingdom of Portugal, Ladinho (or Lingoagem Ladinha) was the name given to the pure Portuguese romance language, without any mixture of Aravia or Gerigonça Judenga.[137] While the term língua vulgar was used to name the language before D. Dinis decided to call it "Portuguese language",[138] the erudite version used and known as Galician-Portuguese (the language of the Portuguese court) and all other Portuguese dialects were spoken at the same time. In a historical perspective the Portuguese language was never just one dialect. Just like today there is a standard Portuguese (actually two) among the several dialects of Portuguese, in the past there was Galician-Portuguese as the "standard", coexisting with other dialects.
Influence on other languages[edit]
An Old Portuguese Memento mori memorial sign in Malacca City.
See also: List of English words of Portuguese origin, Loan words in Malayalam § Portuguese, Loan words in Indonesian, Japanese words of Portuguese origin, List of Malay loanwords, Portuguese loanwords in Sinhala, Loan words in Sri Lankan Tamil § Portuguese, Sri Lanka Indo-Portuguese language, Hindustani etymology § Loanwords from Portuguese, Gujarati language § Portuguese, Burmese language, Bengali vocabulary § Portuguese (পর্তুগিজ Pôrtugij), Thai language § Portuguese-origin, Chittagonian language, and Tok Pisin
Portuguese has provided loanwords to many languages, such as Indonesian, Manado Malay, Malayalam, Sri Lankan Tamil and Sinhala, Malay, Bengali, English, Hindi, Swahili, Afrikaans, Konkani, Marathi, Punjabi, Tetum, Xitsonga, Japanese, Lanc-Patuá, Esan, Bandari (spoken in Iran) and Sranan Tongo (spoken in Suriname). It left a strong influence on the língua brasílica, a Tupi–Guarani language, which was the most widely spoken in Brazil until the 18th century, and on the language spoken around Sikka in Flores Island, Indonesia. In nearby Larantuka, Portuguese is used for prayers in Holy Week rituals.
The Japanese–Portuguese dictionary Nippo Jisho (1603) was the first dictionary of Japanese in a European language, a product of Jesuit missionary activity in Japan. Building on the work of earlier Portuguese missionaries, the Dictionarium Anamiticum, Lusitanum et Latinum (Annamite–Portuguese–Latin dictionary) of Alexandre de Rhodes (1651) introduced the modern orthography of Vietnamese, which is based on the orthography of 17th-century Portuguese. The Romanization of Chinese was also influenced by the Portuguese language (among others), particularly regarding Chinese surnames; one example is Mei. During 1583–88 Italian Jesuits Michele Ruggieri and Matteo Ricci created a Portuguese–Chinese dictionary – the first ever European–Chinese dictionary.[139][140]
For instance, as Portuguese merchants were presumably the first to introduce the sweet orange in Europe, in several modern Indo-European languages the fruit has been named after them. Some examples are Albanian portokall, Bosnian (archaic) portokal, prtokal, Bulgarian портокал (portokal), Greek πορτοκάλι (portokáli), Macedonian portokal, Persian پرتقال (porteghal), and Romanian portocală.[141][142] Related names can be found in other languages, such as Arabic البرتقال (burtuqāl), Georgian ფორთოხალი (p'ort'oxali), Turkish portakal and Amharic birtukan.[141] Also, in southern Italian dialects (e.g. Neapolitan), an orange is portogallo or purtuallo, literally "(the) Portuguese (one)", in contrast to standard Italian arancia.
Participating countries of the Lusophony Games.
Derived languages[edit]
Main article: Portuguese-based creole languages
Beginning in the 16th century, the extensive contacts between Portuguese travelers and settlers, African and Asian slaves, and local populations led to the appearance of many pidgins with varying amounts of Portuguese influence.
As each of these pidgins became the mother tongue of succeeding generations, they evolved into fully fledged creole languages, which remained in use in many parts of Asia, Africa and South America until the 18th century. 
Some Portuguese-based or Portuguese-influenced creoles are still spoken today, by over three million people worldwide, especially people of partial Portuguese ancestry.
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Portuguese phonology
Sara, a native speaker of European Portuguese.
Spoken Brazilian Portuguese.
Portuguese phonology is similar to those of languages such as Catalan and Franco-Provençal, whereas that of Spanish is similar to those of Sardinian and the Southern Italian dialects. Some would describe the phonology of Portuguese as a blend of Spanish, Gallo-Romance (e.g. French) and the languages of northern Italy (especially Genoese).[143][17]
There is a maximum of 9 oral vowels, 2 semivowels and 21 consonants; though some varieties of the language have fewer phonemes. There are also five nasal vowels, which some linguists regard as allophones of the oral vowels.[citation needed] Galician-Portuguese developed in the region of the former Roman province of Gallaecia, from the Vulgar Latin (common Latin) that had been introduced by Roman soldiers, colonists and magistrates during the time of the Roman Empire. Although the process may have been slower than in other regions, the centuries of contact with Vulgar Latin, after a period of bilingualism, completely extinguished the native languages, leading to the evolution of a new variety of Latin with a few Gallaecian features.[144][145]
Gallaecian and Lusitanian influences were absorbed into the local Vulgar Latin dialect, which can be detected in some Galician-Portuguese words as well as in placenames of Celtic and Iberian origin.[146][147]
An early form of Galician-Portuguese was already spoken in the Kingdom of the Suebi and by the year 800 Galician-Portuguese had already become the vernacular of northwestern Iberia.[148] The first known phonetic changes in Vulgar Latin, which began the evolution to Galician-Portuguese, took place during the rule of the Germanic groups, the Suebi (411–585) and Visigoths (585–711).[148] The Galician-Portuguese "inflected infinitive" (or "personal infinitive")[149][150] and the nasal vowels may have evolved under the influence of local Celtic (as in Old French).[151][152] The nasal vowels would thus be a phonologic characteristic of the Vulgar Latin spoken in Roman Gallaecia, but they are not attested in writing until after the 6th and 7th centuries.[153]
Vowels[edit]
Chart of monophthongs of the Portuguese of Lisbon, with its /ɐ, ɐ̃/ in central schwa position.
The Natural History Museum of Mozambique (Manueline) in Maputo.
The Fundação Oriente of Fontainhas, India. The Fundação Oriente, along with Instituto Camões, Instituto Menezes Bragança among others, are institutions dedicated to the worldwide promotion of the Portuguese language and culture.[154]
The International Portuguese Language Institute headquarters, in Praia.
Vowel phonemes of Portuguese (Portugal)[155][156][157]
Front
Central
Back
oral
nasal
oral
nasal
oral
nasal
Close
i
ĩ
(ɨ)
u
ũ
Close-mid
e
ẽ
o
õ
Open-mid
ɛ
ɐ
ɐ̃
ɔ
Open
a
Like Catalan and German, Portuguese uses vowel quality to contrast stressed syllables with unstressed syllables. Unstressed isolated vowels tend to be raised and sometimes centralized.
Consonants[edit]
Consonant phonemes of Portuguese (Portugal)[158][159][160][161]
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Uvular
plain
labialized
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
Plosive
voiceless
p
t
k
kʷ
voiced
b
d
ɡ
ɡʷ
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
ʃ
voiced
v
z
ʒ
ʁ
Approximant
semivowel
j
w
lateral
l
ʎ
Flap
ɾ
Phonetic notes
Semivowels contrast with unstressed high vowels in verbal conjugation, as in (eu) rio /ˈʁi.u/ and (ele) riu /ˈʁiw/.[162] Phonologists discuss whether their nature is vowel or consonant.[163]
In most of Brazil and Angola, the consonant hereafter denoted as /ɲ/ is realized as a nasal palatal approximant [j̃], which nasalizes the vowel that precedes it: [ˈnĩj̃u].[164][165]
Bisol (2005:122) proposes that Portuguese possesses labio-velar stops /kʷ/ and /ɡʷ/ as additional phonemes rather than sequences of a velar stop and /w/.[161]
The consonant hereafter denoted as /ʁ/ has a variety of realizations depending on dialect. In Europe, it is typically a uvular trill [ʀ]; however, a pronunciation as a voiced uvular fricative [ʁ] may be becoming dominant in urban areas. There is also a realization as a voiceless uvular fricative [χ], and the original pronunciation as an alveolar trill [r] also remains very common in various dialects.[166] A common realization of the word-initial /r/ in the Lisbon accent is a voiced uvular fricative trill [ʀ̝].[167] In Brazil, /ʁ/ can be velar, uvular, or glottal and may be voiceless unless between voiced sounds.[168] It is usually pronounced as a voiceless velar fricative [x], a voiceless glottal fricative [h] or voiceless uvular fricative [χ]. See also Guttural R in Portuguese.
/s/ and /z/ are normally lamino-alveolar, as in English. However, a number of dialects in northern Portugal pronounce /s/ and /z/ as apico-alveolar sibilants (sounding somewhat like a soft [ʃ] or [ʒ]), as in the Romance languages of northern Iberia. A very few northeastern Portugal dialects still maintain the medieval distinction between apical and laminal sibilants (written s/ss and c/ç/z, respectively).
As a phoneme, /tʃ/ occurs only in loanwords, names, and interjections, with a dialectal tendency for speakers to substitute in /ʃ/ in most dialects outside of Brazil (as well as some conservative Brazilian dialects, to a variable extent.) However, [tʃ] is an allophone of /t/ before /i/ in a majority of Brazilian dialects. Similarly, [dʒ] is an allophone of /d/ in the same contexts (A very similar evolution happened in Japanese and Polish).
In northern and central Portugal, the voiced stops (/b/, /d/, and /ɡ/) are usually lenited to fricatives [β], [ð], and [ɣ], respectively, except at the beginning of words or after nasal vowels.[155][156] At the end of a phrase, due to final-obstruent devoicing, they may even be devoiced to [ɸ], [θ], and [x] (for example, verde at the end of a sentence may be pronounced [veɹθ]).
In Brazil, many speakers further shift [ɫ] to [w] in closed syllables, especially outside the southern region (A very similar evolution happened in Polish).
Grammar[edit]
Main article: Portuguese grammar
A notable aspect of the grammar of Portuguese is the verb. Morphologically, more verbal inflections from classical Latin have been preserved by Portuguese than by any other major Romance language. Portuguese and Spanish share very similar grammar, vocabulary and sentence structure. Portuguese also has some grammatical innovations not found in other Romance languages (except Galician and Fala):
The present perfect has an iterative sense unique to the Galician-Portuguese language group. It denotes an action or a series of actions that began in the past but expected to occur again in the future. For instance, the sentence Tenho tentado falar contigo would be translated to "I have been trying to talk to you", not "I have tried to talk to you." On the other hand, the correct translation of "Have you heard the latest news?" is not *Tens ouvido as últimas? but Ouviste as últimas? since no repetition is implied.[169]
Portuguese makes use of the future subjunctive mood, which developed from medieval West Iberian Romance. In modern Spanish and Galician, it has almost entirely fallen into disuse. The future subjunctive appears in dependent clauses that denote a condition that must be fulfilled in the future so that the independent clause will occur. English normally employs the present tense under the same circumstances:
Se eu for eleito presidente, mudarei a lei.
If I am elected president, I will change the law.
Quando fores mais velho, vais entender.
When you grow older, you will understand.
The personal infinitive can inflect according to its subject in person and number. It often shows who is expected to perform a certain action. É melhor voltares "It is better [for you] to go back", É melhor voltarmos "It is better [for us] to go back." Perhaps for that reason, infinitive clauses replace subjunctive clauses more often in Portuguese than in other Romance languages.
Writing system[edit]
This table is an excerpt from Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement of 1990 § Changes.[edit]
Written varieties
Area
Before 1990
Agreement
Translation
Euro-African
Brazilian
Different pronunciation
anónimo
anônimo
Both forms remain
anonymous
Vénus
Vênus
Both forms remain
Venus
facto
fato
Both forms remain
fact
ideia
idéia
ideia
idea
Silent consonants
acção
ação
ação
action
direcção
direção
direção
direction
eléctrico
elétrico
elétrico
electric
óptimo
ótimo
ótimo
optimal
Diacritics
pinguim
pingüim
pinguim
penguin
voo
vôo
voo
flight
Non-personal andnon-geographical names
Janeiro
janeiro
janeiro
January
These paragraphs are an excerpt from Portuguese orthography.[edit]
Portuguese orthography is based on the Latin alphabet and makes use of the acute accent, the circumflex accent, the grave accent, the tilde, and the cedilla to denote stress, vowel height, nasalization, and other sound changes. The diaeresis was abolished by the last Orthography Agreement. Accented letters and digraphs are not counted as separate characters for collation purposes.
The spelling of Portuguese is largely phonemic, but some phonemes can be spelled in more than one way. In ambiguous cases, the correct spelling is determined through a combination of etymology with morphology and tradition; so there is not a perfect one-to-one correspondence between sounds and letters or digraphs. Knowing the main inflectional paradigms of Portuguese and being acquainted with the orthography of other Western European languages can be helpful.
Sample text[edit]
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Portuguese:[170]
Todos os seres humanos nascem livres e iguais em dignidade e em direitos. Dotados de razão e de consciência, devem agir uns para com os outros em espírito de fraternidade.
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in English:[171]
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
See also[edit]
Portugal portalLanguage portal
Portuguese literature
Portuguese Africans
Angolan literature
Brazilian literature
Gallaecian language
Indo-Portuguese
Galician Reintegrationism
International Portuguese Language Institute
List of countries and territories where Portuguese is an official language
List of international organizations which have Portuguese as an official language
List of Portuguese-language poets
Lusitanian language
Mozambican Portuguese
Portuguese language in Asia
Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement of 1990
Portuguese poetry
References[edit]
Citations[edit]
^ a b c Portuguese at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ "Continúan los actos del Día de la Lengua Portuguesa y la Cultura Lusófona" [Acts continue to mark Portuguese Language and Portuguese Culture Day]. Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. 10 May 2016.
^ Gutiérrez Bottaro, Silvia Etel (2014). "El portugués uruguayo y las marcas de la oralidad en la poesía del escritor uruguayo Agustín R. Bisio" [Uruguayan Portuguese and oral marks in the poetry of Uruguayan writer Agustín R. Bisio] (PDF). abehache (in Spanish). 4 (6). Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 August 2019. Retrieved 18 March 2018.
^ "Historia lingüística del Uruguay". www.historiadelaslenguasenuruguay.edu.uy. Archived from the original on 5 April 2019. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
^ Fernández Aguerre, Tabaré; González Bruzzese, Mahira; Rodriguez Ingold, Cecilia (2017). Algunas notas teórico metodológicas sobre la relación entre regiones y aprendizajes en Uruguay [Some theoretical methodological notes on the relationship between regions and learning in Uruguay]. XVI Jornadas de Investigación : la excepcionalidad uruguaya en debate: ¿como el Uruguay no hay? (in Spanish). pp. 11–15. hdl:20.500.12008/10776.
^ a b c "Estados-membros" [Member States]. Community of Portuguese Language Countries (in Portuguese). 7 February 2017.
^ "The Origin and Formation of The Portuguese Language". Judeo-Lusitanica. Duke University. Archived from the original on 10 May 2017. Retrieved 15 October 2016.
^ Bittencourt de Oliveira, João. "Breves considerações sobre o legado das línguas célticas". filologia.org.br.
^ "CIA World Factbook". Retrieved 12 June 2015.
^ Admin, e2f. "What are the 5 official languages of South America?". e2f. Retrieved 21 June 2020.
^ "Lesson Nine: How Many People Speak Portuguese, And Where Is It Spoken?". Babbel Magazine. Retrieved 21 June 2020.
^ "Potencial Económico da Língua Portuguesa" (PDF). University of Coimbra.
^ "Top 11 Most Spoken Languages in Africa". 18 October 2017.
^ "The World's 10 most influential languages", George Weber, 1997, Language Today
"...includes besides many other languages, Bengali, English, French, German, Hindi/Urdu, Italian, Marathi, Panjabi, Persian, Brazilian (Portuguese), Russian, the Scandinavian languages, and Spanish."
"Portuguese today means above all Brazilian."
^ Bernard Comrie, Encarta Encyclopedia (1998); George Weber, "Top Languages: The World's 10 Most Influential Languages", Language Today (Vol. 2, December 1997). Archived from the original on 2011-09-27. Retrieved 2011-09-28.
^ Benozzo, F. (2018): "Uma paisagem atlântica pré-histórica. Etnogénese e etno-filologia paleo-mesolítica das tradições galega e portuguesa", in proceedings of Jornadas das Letras Galego-Portugesas 2015–2017. Università de Bologna, DTS and Academia Galega da Língua Portuguesa. pp. 159–170
^ a b Bagno, Marcos (2007). "Gramática Histórica do latim ao português brasileiro" [Historical Grammar from Latin to Brazilian Portuguese]. University of Brasília – via www.academia.edu.
^ a b "In the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula, and more specifically between the west and north Atlantic coasts and an imaginary line running north-south and linking Oviedo and Merida, there is a corpus of Latin inscriptions with particular characteristics of its own. This corpus contains some linguistic features that are clearly Celtic and others that in our opinion are not Celtic. The former we shall group, for the moment, under the label northwestern Hispano-Celtic. The latter are the same features found in well-documented contemporary inscriptions in the region occupied by the Lusitanians, and therefore belonging to the variety known as LUSITANIAN, or more broadly as GALLO-LUSITANIAN. As we have already said, we do not consider this variety to belong to the Celtic language family." Jordán Colera 2007: p.750
^ "Comparative Grammar of Latin 34" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 September 2007.
^ Ethnologic Map of Pre-Roman Iberia (c. 200 BC) Archived 5 April 2016 at the Wayback Machine. Arkeotavira.com. Retrieved 14 November 2011.
^ Domingos Maria da Silva, Os Búrios, Terras de Bouro, Câmara Municipal de Terras de Bouro, 2006. (in Portuguese)
^ Corriente, F. (2008). Dictionary of Arabic and allied loanwords : Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, Galician and kindred dialects. Leiden: Brill. ISBN 978-90-04-16858-9. OCLC 234431540.
^ Koutantos, Dimitrios. "Palavras que cheiram mar 2: Etimologia de mais de 1000 Palavras Gregas Usadas em Português (Λέξεις που μυρίζουν θάλασσα)" (PDF).
^ "Vocabulário Ortográfico da Galiza elaborado pela Academia Galega da Língua Portuguesa (AGLP)" (in Portuguese). Santiago de Compostela, Portugal: Academia Galega da Língua Portuguesa (AGLP). 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2021.
^ Lay, Stephen (2015). "Sanctity and Social Alienation in Twelfth-Century Braga as Portrayed in the Vita Sancti Geraldi". Portuguese Studies. 31 (2): 153–168. doi:10.5699/portstudies.31.2.0153. S2CID 164609309.
^ Jean-Pierre Juge (2001) Petit précis – Chronologie occitane – Histoire & civilisation, p. 25
^ de Assis, Maria Cristina. "História da língua portuguesa" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 March 2021. Retrieved 21 February 2019.
^ Funari, Pedro Paulo Abreu (2002). Grécia e Roma (in Portuguese) (2.ª ed.). São Paulo: Contexto. p. 80. ISBN 9788572441605. Dos romanos herdamos, também, nossa própria língua, pois o português nada mais é do que um latim modificado. A maioria das palavras do português deriva do latim, sendo, em alguns casos, exatamente as mesmas. Vamos a um exemplo, como é o caso de família, "família". Noutros casos, são palavras quase iguais, como filius, "filho" ou adolescentes, "adolescentes". O português deriva do latim, porque os romanos dominaram a Península Ibérica e, por muitos séculos, o latim foi ali falado. Por isso, o português é conhecido como "a última flor do Lácio", ou seja, a última língua derivada do latim, a língua do Lácio, região onde estava Roma.
^ Niskier, Arnaldo (16 August 2004). "Identidade cultural: língua e soberania". Folha de S.Paulo (in Portuguese). Archived from the original on 9 April 2022. Retrieved 13 October 2022. Por que gastar o seu latim nestes tempos descartáveis que vivemos? Uma resposta óbvia — pelo menos para aqueles que lidam diretamente com a língua portuguesa e lutam pela sua preservação — é que ela é conhecida como "a última flor do Lácio", ou seja, foi a última ramificação do latim.
^ Almeida, Haline Janaína Franco; Oliveira, Luiz Roberto Peel Furtado de (2020). "Cartografando os neologismos na quarentena: ampliando o vocabulário da língua portuguesa". Revista Philologus (in Portuguese). Círculo Fluminense de Estudos Filológicos e Linguísticos. 26 (78): 1132–1142. Archived from the original on 13 October 2022. Retrieved 13 October 2022. Conhecida como "A última flor do Lácio", a língua portuguesa vem sofrendo transformações no decorrer dos séculos, a partir do latim vulgar, sendo caracterizada como dinâmica e heterogênea.
^ "Comentando sobre origens e descendências". Gazeta Brazilian News (in Portuguese). 17 November 2016. Archived from the original on 13 October 2022. Retrieved 13 October 2022. Com a Língua Portuguesa não foi diferente. Você sabia que o português é conhecido como a última flor do Lácio?
^ "Língua Portuguesa". Rua da Poesia (in Portuguese). Archived from the original on 7 October 2008. Retrieved 24 August 2006. Última flor do Lácio, inculta e bela,/ És, a um tempo, esplendor e sepultura:/ Ouro nativo, que na ganga impura/ A bruta mina entre os cascalhos vela…
^ Watts, Henry Edward (1891). Miguel de Cervantes: His Life & Works. London: Walter Scott.
^ Shipley, Joseph T. (1946). Encyclopedia of Literature. Philosophical Library. p. 1188.
^ Poddar, Prem; Patke, Rajeev S.; Jensen, Lars (2008). "Introduction: The Myths and Realities of Portuguese (Post) Colonial Society". A historical companion to postcolonial literatures: continental Europe and its empires. Edinburgh University Press. p. 431. ISBN 978-0-7486-2394-5.
^ a b "Museu da Língua Portuguesa aberto ao público no dia 20" [Portuguese Language Museum open to the public on 20]. Noticiaslusofonas.com (in Portuguese). 8 March 2006. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ "Brazil: Fire engulfs Portuguese language museum in Sao Paulo, one killed". International Business Times. 22 December 2015.
^ "Museu da Língua Portuguesa será reaberto ao público no domingo". Agência Brasil. 29 July 2021.
^ Carvalho, Daniela de (1 February 2013). Migrants and Identity in Japan and Brazil: The Nikkeijin. ISBN 978-1-135-78765-3.
^ "Special Eurobarometer 243 "Europeans and their Languages"" (PDF). European Commission. 2006. p. 6. Retrieved 11 May 2011.
^ "Portuguese language in Brazil". Countrystudies.us. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ Hagemeijer, Tjerk (2009). "As Línguas de S. Tomé e Príncipe" (PDF). Revista de Crioulos de Base Lexical Portuguesa e Espanhola. 1 (1): 1–27.
^ Angola: Language Situation (2005). Keith Brown (ed.). Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics (2 ed.). Elsevier. ISBN 0-08-044299-4.
^ Medeiros, Adelardo. Portuguese in Africa – Angola
^ A. D. Medeiros, Adelardo. "Portuguese in Africa – Mozambique". Retrieved 12 June 2015.
^ A. D. Medeiros, Adelardo. "Portuguese in Africa – Guinea-Bissau". Retrieved 12 June 2015.
^ "Constitution of the Republic of South Africa 1996, Chapter 1: Founding Provisions". www.gov.za. Retrieved 20 June 2019.
^ "Coneixements i usos lingüístics de la població d'Andorra: Situació actual i evolució 1995–2018" (PDF) (in Portuguese). Government of Andorra. 2019. Retrieved 20 July 2022.
^ "Bermuda". World InfoZone. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
^ "Population by mother tongue, by province and territory (2006 Census)". Statistics Canada. Archived from the original on 13 March 2012.
^ "Portuguese in Europe · Portuguese-speaking countries & Portuguese language knowledge in Europe". Languageknowledge.eu. Retrieved 19 March 2022.
^ "Japão: imigrantes brasileiros popularizam língua portuguesa" (in Portuguese). 2008. Archived from the original on 6 July 2011. Retrieved 13 May 2011.
^ "4.6% according to the 2001 census, see". Cia.gov. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ a b Carin Pretorius – Developed CEIT Development CC. "The Namibian".
^ Paraguay in Eberhard, David M.; Simons, Gary F.; Fennig, Charles D., eds. (2022). Ethnologue: Languages of the World (25th ed.). Dallas, Texas: SIL International.
^ Lingue della Svizzera. Pratiche linguistiche in Svizzera: Primi risultati dell'Indagine sulla lingua, la religione e la cultura 2019 (Report) (in Italian). 2019.
^ Venezuela in Eberhard, David M.; Simons, Gary F.; Fennig, Charles D., eds. (2022). Ethnologue: Languages of the World (25th ed.). Dallas, Texas: SIL International.
^ Carvalho, Ana Maria (2010). "Portuguese in the USA". In Potowski, Kim (ed.). Language Diversity in the USA. Cambridge University Press. p. 346. ISBN 978-0-521-74533-8.
^ "Portuguese Language in Goa". Colaco.net. Archived from the original on 29 May 2001. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
^ "The Portuguese Experience: The Case of Goa, Daman and Diu". Rjmacau.com. Archived from the original on 21 July 2006. Retrieved 21 April 2010.
^ "1.500 pessoas estudam português em Goa". Revistamacau.com. 2 June 2014. Retrieved 10 July 2015.
^ Factoria Audiovisual S.R.L. (20 July 2010). "El portugués será el tercer idioma oficial de la República de Guinea Ecuatorial – Página Oficial del Gobierno de la República de Guinea Ecuatorial". Guineaecuatorialpress.com. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ "Equatorial Guinea Adds Portuguese as the Country's Third Official Language". PR Newswire. Retrieved 7 February 2017.
^ Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. "Equatorial Guinea, member of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries".
^ "Official languages of Mercosul as agreed in the Protocol of Ouro Preto". Actrav.itcilo.org. Archived from the original on 22 July 2011. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ Statutes, Article 1"Official statute of the organization". Oei.es. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ Constitutive Treaty of the Union of South American Nations, Article 23 "Tratado Constitutivo de la Unión de Naciones Suramericanas" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 July 2020. Retrieved 4 October 2018.
^ General Assembly of the OAS, Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly Archived 15 May 2011 at the Wayback Machine, 5 June 2000
^ a b c Article 11, Protocol on Amendments to the Constitutive Act of the African Union "Protocol on the Amendments to the Constitutive Act of the African Union" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 December 2013. Retrieved 5 February 2016.
^ "Languages in Europe – Official EU Languages". EUROPA web portal. Archived from the original on 2 February 2009. Retrieved 12 October 2009.
^ "Statistics Portugal - Web Portal". www.ine.pt.
^ a b "IBGE | Projeção da população". www.ibge.gov.br.
^ a b "Population by Country (2022) - Worldometer". www.worldometers.info.
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2022
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2021
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2022
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) 
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2015
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2015
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2017 (L1), 2021 census (L2)
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2010 census
^ Portuguese language at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) , 2022
^ "Statistics Portugal - Web Portal". www.ine.pt.
^ "Governo uruguaio torna obrigatório ensino do português" [Uruguayan government makes Portuguese mandatory]. UOL Notícias (in Portuguese). 5 November 2007. Retrieved 13 July 2010.
^ "Portuguese language will be option in the official Venezuelan teachings" (in Portuguese). 24 May 2009. Archived from the original on 22 May 2011. Retrieved 13 July 2010.
^ "Zambia will adopt the Portuguese language in their Basic school" (in Portuguese). 26 May 2009. Archived from the original on 28 May 2009. Retrieved 13 July 2010.
^ a b c d "Congo will start to teach Portuguese in schools" (in Portuguese). 4 June 2010. Archived from the original on 7 August 2010. Retrieved 13 July 2010.
^ "Português entra no currículo escolar da Costa do Marfim no próximo ano letivo" [Portuguese enters the Ivory Coast school curriculum next school year]. www.portugal.gov.pt (in Portuguese). 23 June 2016.
^ "República da Maurícia". www.cplp.org.
^ "Português vai ser introduzido no ensino secundário no Zimbabué" [Portuguese to be introduced to secondary education in Zimbabwe]. SAPO 24 (in Portuguese). 18 January 2017.
^ "Zimbabwe: Português vai ser introduzido no ensino secundário do país" [Zimbabwe: Portuguese to be introduced into the country's secondary education] (in Portuguese). Angola Press – ANGOP. 19 January 2017. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020. Retrieved 22 January 2020.
^ "Português será língua curricular em 32 países no próximo ano letivo" [Portuguese will be curricular language in 32 countries next school year]. SAPO 24 (in Portuguese). 22 July 2019.
^ "Portuguese language in Timor Leste" (PDF).
^ "The World Factbook – Field Listing – Population – CIA". Central Intelligence Agency. Archived from the original on 4 October 2018. Retrieved 7 March 2015.
^ "Portuguese language gaining popularity". Anglopress Edicões e Publicidade Lda. 5 May 2007. Archived from the original on 18 March 2012. Retrieved 18 May 2011.
^ Leach, Michael (2007). "talking Portuguese; China and East Timor". Arena Magazine. Archived from the original on 5 November 2011. Retrieved 18 May 2011.
^ Bilrero, António (15 March 2018). "Promising future for Portuguese language in China". Macao Magazine. Archived from the original on 2 July 2019.
^ Viviane Maia dos Santos. "A Constituição de Corpora Orais Para a Análise das Formas de Tratamento" (PDF). Anais do IX Encontro do CELSUL Palhoça, SC, out. 2010 Universidade do Sul de Santa Catarina. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
^ Béliche Alves, Cibelle Corrêa (2012). "'Por onde tá "o tu"?' no português falado no Maranhão". Signum: Estudos da Linguagem. 15 (1): 13–31. doi:10.5433/2237-4876.2012v15n1p13. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
^ Loregian-Penkal, Loremi (2005). "Alternância tu/você em Santa Catarina: uma abordagem variacionista" (PDF). Estudos Lingüísticos (in Portuguese). XXXIV: 362–367. Retrieved 10 August 2017 – via Tu/você alternation in Santa Catarina: a variationist approach.
^ "Português na Europa". InfoEscola.
^ "Audio samples of the dialects of Portuguese". Instituto Camões. Retrieved 12 June 2015.
^ "Nheengatu and caipira dialect". Sosaci.org. Archived from the original on 15 December 2018. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ Ferraz, Irineu da Silva (2005). Características fonético-acústicas do /r/ retroflexo do portugues brasileiro: dados de informantes de Pato Branco (PR) [Acoustic-phonetic characteristics of the Brazilian Portuguese's retroflex /r/: data from respondents in Pato Branco, Paraná] (PDF) (Master's thesis) (in Portuguese). Universidade Federal do Paraná. pp. 19–21. hdl:1884/3955.
^ Leite, Cândida Mara Britto (2010). "O /r/ em posição de coda silábica na capital do interior paulista: uma abordagem sociolinguística" [Syllable coda /r/ in the "capital" of the Paulista hinterland: a sociolinguistic analysis]. Sínteses (in Portuguese). 15: 111. Archived from the original on 22 December 2012.
^ Callou, Dinah; Leite, Yonne (2001). Iniciação à Fonética e à Fonologia [Introduction to Phonetics and Phonology] (in Portuguese). Jorge Zahar Editora. p. 24.
^ Castilho, Ataliba T. de. "Saber uma língua é separar o certo do errado? A língua é um organismo vivo que varia conforme o contexto e vai muito além de uma coleção de regras e normas de como falar e escrever" [To know a language is really about separating correct from awry? Language is a living organism that varies by context and goes far beyond a collection of rules and norms of how to speak and write] (PDF) (in Portuguese). Museu da Língua Portuguesa. Archived from the original (PDF) on 22 December 2012.
^ "Linguistic prejudice and the surprising (academic and formal) unity of Brazilian Portuguese". Archived from the original on 21 October 2012. Retrieved 22 September 2012.
^ Monteiro, José Lemos (2000). "As descrições fonológicas do português do Ceará: de Aguiar a Macambira" (PDF). Revista do GELNE. 2 (1).
^ Maia, Viviane dos Santos (2012). 'Tu vai para onde? ... Você vai para onde?': manifestações da segunda pessoa na fala carioca ['Tu vai para onde? ... Você vai para onde?: manifestations of the second person in Carioca speech] (PDF) (Master's thesis) (in Portuguese). Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
^ Aragão, Maria do Socorro Silva de. "Aspectos Fonético-Fonológicos do Falar do Ceará: O Que Tem Surgido nos Inquéritos Experimentais do Atlas Lingüístico do Brasil – ALiB-Ce" [Phonetic-Phonological Aspects of the Speech of Ceará: What Has Appeared in Experimental Surveys of the Linguistic Atlas of Brazil – ALiB-Ce] (PDF) (in Portuguese). Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 February 2014. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
^ Lee, Seung Hwa (2006). "Sobre as vogais pré-tônicas no Português Brasileiro" [About pre-tonic vowels in Brazilian Portuguese] (PDF). Estudos Lingüísticos (in Portuguese). XXXV: 166–175. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
^ Aragão, Maria do Socorro Silva de (2009). "Os estudos fonético-fonológicos nos estados da Paraíba e do Ceará" [Phonetic-phonological studies in the states of Paraíba and Ceará] (PDF). Revista da ABRALIN (in Portuguese). 8 (1): 163–184. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 10 August 2017.
^ Nascimento, Katiene; Guimarães, Daniela; Barboza, Clerton; et al. (2012). "Revisitando a palatalização no português brasileiro" [Revisiting palatalization in Brazilian Portuguese]. Revista de Estudos da Linguagem (in Portuguese). 20 (2): 59–89.
^ "Learn about Portuguese language". Sibila. 25 April 2009. Retrieved 27 November 2012.
^ Note: the speaker of this sound file is from Rio de Janeiro, and he is talking about his experience with nordestino and nortista accents.
^ "O MEC, o "português errado" e a linguistica..." [MEC, "wrong Portuguese" and linguistics…]. Imprenca.com (in Portuguese). 17 May 2011. Archived from the original on 19 April 2012. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ "Cartilha do MEC ensina erro de Português" [MEC primer teaches Portuguese error]. Saindo da Matrix (in Portuguese). 18 May 2011. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ "Livro do MEC ensina o português errado ou apenas valoriza as formas linguísticas?". Jornal de Beltrão (in Portuguese). 26 May 2011. Retrieved 23 July 2012.
^ "Sotaque branco" [White accent] (in Portuguese). Meia Maratona Internacional CAIXA de Brasília. Archived from the original on 17 May 2016. Retrieved 25 September 2012.
^ "O Que É? Amazônia" [What is? Amazon]. Amarnatureza.org.br (in Portuguese). Associação de Defesa do Meio Ambiente Araucária (AMAR). 1 September 2009. Archived from the original on 22 December 2012. Retrieved 25 September 2012.
^ pdf - Seringueiros da Amazônia, University of São Paulo (USP), Faculty of Philosophy, Letters and Human Sciences, Department of Geography
^  http://romansh.romanche.free.fr/
^ Giorgi, Alessandra; Pianesi, Fabio (1997). "On the Italian, Latin, and Portuguese Temporal Systems". Tense and Aspect: From Semantics to Morphosyntax. ISBN 978-0-19-509193-9.
^ "Canja". Dicionário Priberam.
^ Jensen, John B. (1989). "On the Mutual Intelligibility of Spanish and Portuguese". Hispania. 72 (4): 848–852. doi:10.2307/343562. JSTOR 343562.
^ Penny, Ralph (2000). Variation and Change in Spanish. Cambridge University Press. p. 14. ISBN 978-0-521-78045-2.
^ Dalby, Andrew (1998). Dictionary of Languages: The Definitive Reference to More Than 400 Languages. Columbia University Press. p. 501. ISBN 978-0-231-11568-1. how well do spanish speakers understand portuguese?.
^ Ginsburgh, Victor; Weber, Shlomo (2011). How Many Languages Do We Need?: The Economics of Linguistic Diversity. Princeton University Press. p. 90. ISBN 978-0-691-13689-9.
^ "Similar languages to Portuguese". EZ Glot.
^ a b Lipski, John M (2006). Face, Timothy L; Klee, Carol A (eds.). Too close for comfort? the genesis of 'portuñol/portunhol' (PDF). Selected Proceedings of the 8th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium. pp. 1–22. Retrieved 21 June 2015.
^ a b "A Fala Galego-Portuguesa da Baixa-Limia e Castro Laboreiro" [The Galician-Portuguese Speech of Baixa-Limia and Castro Laboreiro] (PDF) (in Portuguese). Retrieved 5 October 2018.
^ "O galego deixa de ser unha das linguas 'en perigo' para a Unesco" [Galician is no longer one of the "endangered" languages for Unesco]. Galicia Hoxe (in Galician). 20 February 2009. Archived from the original on 6 November 2016. Retrieved 30 May 2015.
^ a b Moniz, Alexandre (2021). "Galician: How to Kill a Language" (PDF). Cambridge Engage. Retrieved 21 September 2021.
^ Galician at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^  "O galego e o português são a mesma língua/".
^ Silva, António de Morais (1823). Diccionario da lingua portugueza. Na typ. de M. P. de Lacerda. p. 140. Retrieved 30 May 2015. aravia.
^ Osório, Jorge A. (1993). "D. Dinis: o Rei a Língua e o Reino" [D. Dinis: the King the Language and the Kingdom] (PDF). Máthesis (in Portuguese) (2): 17–36. hdl:10216/20003. Retrieved 12 June 2015.
^ Camus, Yves. "Jesuits' Journeys in Chinese Studies" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 12 June 2015.
^ Dicionário Português–Chinês : Pu Han ci dian: Portuguese–Chinese dictionary, by Michele Ruggieri, Matteo Ricci; edited by John W. Witek. Published 2001, Biblioteca Nacional. ISBN 972-565-298-3. Partial preview Archived 15 December 2022 at the Wayback Machine available on Google Books
^ a b "Multilingual Multiscript Plant Name Database: Sorting Citrus Names". University of Melbourne. Retrieved 11 December 2012.
^ Ostergren, Robert C. & Le Bosse, Mathias (2011). The Europeans, Second Edition: A Geography of People, Culture, and Environment. Guilford Press. p. 129. ISBN 978-1-60918-140-6.
^ Handbook of the International Phonetic Association pp. 126–130
^ Luján Martínez, Eugenio R. (2006). "The language(s) of the Callaeci". E-Keltoi: Journal of Interdisciplinary Celtic Studies. 6: 715–748. ISSN 1540-4889.
^ Piel, Joseph-Maria (1989). "Origens e estruturação histórica do léxico português" [Origins and historical structure of the Portuguese lexicon]. Estudos de Linguística Histórica Galego-Portuguesa [Studies in Galician-Portuguese Historical Linguistics] (PDF) (in Portuguese). Lisboa: IN-CM. pp. 9–16. Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 February 2008.
^ Such as Bolso: A Toponímia Céltica e os vestígios de cultura material da Proto-História de Portugal. Freire, José. Revista de Guimarães, Volume Especial, I, Guimarães, 1999, pp. 265–275 Archived 6 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine. (PDF) . Retrieved 14 November 2011.
^ Cabeza Quiles, Fernando (2014). A toponimia celta de Galicia. Noia: Toxosoutos. ISBN 978-84-942224-4-3.
^ a b "As origens do romance galego-português" [The origins of the Galician-Portuguese romance language]. História da Língua Portuguesa em linha (in Portuguese). Instituto Camões.
^ Alinei, Mario; Benozzo, Francesco (2008). Alguns aspectos da Teoria da Continuidade Paleolítica aplicada à região galega [Some aspects of the Paleolithic Continuity Theory applied to the Galician region] (PDF) (in Portuguese). ISBN 978-989-618-200-7. Retrieved 14 November 2011.
^  Raposo, Eduardo (1989). "Prepositional Infinitival Constructions in European Portuguese". In Osvaldo A. Jaeggli; Kenneth J. Safir (eds.). The Null Subject Parameter. Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory. Vol. 15. pp. 277–305. doi:10.1007/978-94-009-2540-3_10. ISBN 978-1-55608-087-6.
^ "Comparative Grammar of Latin 34: Language Contact" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 September 2007.
^ Silva, Luís Fraga da. "Ethnologic Map of Pre-Roman Iberia (circa 200 B.C.)". Arkeotavira.com. Archived from the original on 25 November 2011. Retrieved 14 November 2011.
^ "Fonética histórica" [Historical phonetics]. História da Língua Portuguesa em linha (in Portuguese). Instituto Camões. Archived from the original on 22 September 2007.
^ "Delegação da Índia". www.foriente.pt. Archived from the original on 27 May 2012. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
^ a b Cruz-Ferreira (1995:92)
^ a b Mateus & d'Andrade (2000:11)
^ Christopher, Spahr. "Confronting the European Portuguese low vowel distinction" (PDF). UToronto. UToronto. Retrieved 22 December 2021.
^ Cruz-Ferreira (1995:91)
^ Barbosa & Albano (2004:228–229)
^ Carvalho, Joana (2012). "Sobre os Ditongos do Português Europeu" (PDF). ELingUp (in Portuguese). 4 (1): 20. Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 November 2015. A conclusão será que nos encontramos em presença de dois segmentos fonológicos /kʷ/ e /ɡʷ/, respetivamente, com uma articulação vocálica. Bisol (2005:122), tal como Freitas (1997), afirma que não estamos em presença de um ataque ramificado. Neste caso, a glide, juntamente com a vogal que a sucede, forma um ditongo no nível pós-lexical. Esta conclusão implica um aumento do número de segmentos no inventário segmental fonológico do português.
^ a b Bisol (2005:122). Quotation: A proposta é que a sequencia consoante velar + glide posterior seja indicada no léxico como uma unidade monofonemática /kʷ/ e /ɡʷ/. O glide que, nete caso, situa-se no ataque não-ramificado, forma com a vogal seguinte um ditongo crescente em nível pós lexical. Ditongos crescentes somente se formam neste nível. Em resumo, a consoante velar e o glide posterior, quando seguidos de a/o, formam uma só unidade fonológica, ou seja, um segmento consonantal com articulação secundária vocálica, em outros termos, um segmento complexo.
^ Rodrigues (2012:39–40)
^ Bisol (2005:123)
^ Thomas (1974:8)
^ Perini, Mário Alberto (2002). Modern Portuguese (A Reference Grammar). New Haven: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-09155-7.
^ Mateus & d'Andrade (2000:5–6, 11)
^ Grønnum (2005:157)
^ Barbosa & Albano (2004:228)
^ Squartini, Mario (1998). Verbal Periphrases in Romance: Aspect, Actionality, and Grammaticalization. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-016160-1. OCLC 39007172.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights - Portuguese (Portugal)". Unicode.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations.
Sources[edit]
História da Lingua Portuguesa – Instituto Camões website Archived 6 February 2016 at the Wayback Machine
A Língua Portuguesa in Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil
Carta de dotação e fundação da Igreja de S. Miguel de Lardosa, a.D. 882 (o mais antigo documento latino-português original conhecido) [1] Archived 10 September 2019 at the Wayback Machine
Literature
Poesia e Prosa Medievais, by Maria Ema Tarracha Ferreira, Ulisseia 1998, 3rd ed., ISBN 978-972-568-124-4.
Bases Temáticas – Língua, Literatura e Cultura Portuguesa in Instituto Camões Archived 5 June 2014 at the Wayback Machine
Portuguese literature in The Catholic Encyclopedia Archived 26 April 2005 at the Wayback Machine
Phonology, orthography and grammar
Barbosa, Plínio A.; Albano, Eleonora C. (2004). "Brazilian Portuguese". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 34 (2): 227–232. doi:10.1017/S0025100304001756.
Bergström, Magnus & Reis, Neves Prontuário Ortográfico Editorial Notícias, 2004.
Bisol, Leda (2005). Introdução a estudos de fonologia do português brasileiro (in Portuguese). Porto Alegre – Rio Grande do Sul: EDIPUCRS. ISBN 978-85-7430-529-5.
Cruz-Ferreira, Madalena (1995). "European Portuguese". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 25 (2): 90–94. doi:10.1017/S0025100300005223. S2CID 249414876.
Grønnum, Nina (2005). Fonetik og fonologi, Almen og Dansk (3rd ed.). Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag. ISBN 978-87-500-3865-8.
Mateus, Maria Helena; d'Andrade, Ernesto (2000). The Phonology of Portuguese. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-823581-1.
Rodrigues, Marisandra Costa (2012). Encontros Vocálicos Finais em Português: Descrição e Análise Otimalista (PDF) (Thesis). Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 25 December 2015.
Thomas, Earl W. (1974). A Grammar of Spoken Brazilian Portuguese. Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press. ISBN 978-0-8265-1197-3.
A pronúncia do português europeu – European Portuguese Pronunciation Archived 10 July 2014 at the Wayback Machine - Instituto Camões website
Dialects of Portuguese Archived 4 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine – Instituto Camões website
Audio samples of the dialects of Portugal Archived 18 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine – Instituto Camões website
Audio samples of the dialects from outside Europe Archived 27 April 2015 at the Wayback Machine – Instituto Camões website
Portuguese Grammar Archived 21 March 2012 at the Wayback Machine – Learn101.org
Reference dictionaries
Antônio Houaiss (2000), Dicionário Houaiss da Língua Portuguesa (228,500 entries).
Aurélio Buarque de Holanda Ferreira, Novo Dicionário da Língua Portuguesa (1809 pp.)
English–Portuguese–Chinese Dictionary (Freeware for Windows/Linux/Mac)
Linguistic studies
Cook, Manuela. Portuguese Pronouns and Other Forms of Address, from the Past into the Future – Structural, Semantic and Pragmatic Reflections, Ellipsis, vol. 11, APSA, www.portuguese-apsa.com/ellipsis, 2013
Cook, Manuela (1997). "Uma Teoria de Interpretação das Formas de Tratamento na Língua Portuguesa". Hispania. 80 (3): 451–464. doi:10.2307/345821. JSTOR 345821.
Cook, Manuela. On the Portuguese Forms of Address: From Vossa Mercê to Você, Portuguese Studies Review 3.2, Durham: University of New Hampshire, 1995
Lindley Cintra, Luís F. Nova Proposta de Classificação dos Dialectos Galego- Portugueses Archived 9 November 2013 at the Wayback Machine (PDF) Boletim de Filologia, Lisboa, Centro de Estudos Filológicos, 1971.
External links[edit]
Portuguese language at Curlie
Portuguese language at Wikipedia's sister projects:Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsQuotations from WikiquoteTextbooks from WikibooksResources from WikiversityPhrasebook from WikivoyagePortuguese edition of WikipediaData from Wikidata
Links to related articles
vteLanguages of PortugalOfficial language
Portuguese
Regional languages
Barranquenho
Minderico
Mirandese
Sign languages
Portuguese Sign Language
Non-official
Caló
vteLanguages of BrazilOfficial language
Portuguese
Brazilian Sign Language
Regional languages
German
Pomeranian
Hunsrik
Italian
Talian
IndigenouslanguagesArawakan
Asháninka
Atorada
Baniwa
Barawana
Baré
Enawenê-Nawê
Mapidian
Mehinaku
Palikúr
Paresi
Tariana
Terêna
Wapishana
Warekena
Waurá
Arawan
Deni
Jamamadí
Kulina
Paumarí
Zuruahá
Cariban
Amonap
Apalaí
Bakairi
Carib
Hixkaryana
Ikpeng
Macushi
Pará Arára
Salumá
Sikiana
Ye'kuana
Waiwai
Panoan
Amawaka
Kashinawa
Shipibo
Yaminawa
Macro-Jê
Akwẽ-Xerénte
Apinajé
Arikapú
Bororo
Chiquitano
Djeoromitxí
Kaingang
Karajá
Kĩsêdjê
Krenak
Laklãnõ (Xokléng)
Maxakalí
Mẽbêngôkre
Ofayé
Panará
Rikbaktsa
Tapayúna
Timbira
Xavante
Nadahup
Dâw
Hup
Kakwa
Nadëb
Tupian
Akwáwa
Juruna
Kagwahiva
Kaiwá
Munduruku
Nheengatu
Omagua
Tapirapé
Tenetehara
Xeta
Xipaya
Zo'é
Chapacuran
Oro Win
Wariʼ
Tukanoan
Cubeo
Tukano
Tuyuca
Wanano
Nambikwaran
Mamaindê
Nambikwara
Sabanê
Others
Aikanã
Arutani
Guató
Irantxe
Kadiwéu
Kanamarí
Katawixi
Kwaza
Ninam
Pirahã
Ticuna
Xukuru
Interlanguages
Cafundó
Lanc-Patuá
Macarrônico
Portunhol fronteiriço
Sign languages
Brazilian Sign
Ka'apor Sign
Terena Sign
Non-official
Japanese
Vlax Romani
Hungarian
Arabic
French
Dutch
Haitian Creole
Greek
Polish
Romanian
Russian
Tagalog
Turkish
Korean
Chinese
Slovak
vteLanguages of Africa Sovereign states
Algeria
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Republic of the Congo
Djibouti
Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Gabon
The Gambia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Ivory Coast
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé and Príncipe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Sudan
Tanzania
Togo
Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe
States with limitedrecognition
Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic
Somaliland
Dependencies andother territories
Canary Islands / Ceuta / Melilla  (Spain)
Madeira (Portugal)
Mayotte / Réunion (France)
Saint Helena / Ascension Island / Tristan da Cunha (United Kingdom)
Western Sahara
vteLanguages of MacauOfficial
Portuguese
Cantonese
Other
Macanese Patois
English
Mandarin Chinese
vteLanguages of East TimorOfficial languages
Portuguese
Tetum
National languages
Atauru
Baikeno
Bekais
Bunak
Fataluku
Galoli
Habun
Idalaka
Kawaimina
Kemak
Makalero
Makasae
Makuva
Mambai
Tokodede
Hakka
Working languages
English
Indonesian
vteRomance languages (classification)Major branches
Eastern
Italo-Western
Italo-Dalmatian
Western
Southern
Eastern
Aromanian
Istro-Romanian
Megleno-Romanian
Romanian
dialects
Banat
Bukovinian
Crișana
Maramureș
Moldavian
Transylvanian
Wallachian
Common Romanian
Italo-DalmatianCentral
Central dialects
Central Marchigiano
Ancona
Fabriano
Macerata
Central−Northern Latian
Romanesco
Sabino
Corsican
Gallurese
Italian
Italo-Australian
Regional Italian
Swiss Italian
Sassarese
Tuscan
Florentine
Southern
Extreme Southern Italian
Central−Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Neapolitan–Calabrese
Neapolitan
Barese
Benevento
Castelmezzano
Cilentan
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Northern Calabrian
Southern Italian Koiné
Others
Dalmatian
Istriot
Judaeo-Italian
WesternGallo-Italic
Emilian-Romagnol
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Gallo-Picene
Ligurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Judeo-Italian
Lombard
Eastern
Bergamasque
Western
Brianzöö
Canzés
Bustocco–Legnanese
Comasco–Lecchese
Comasco
Laghée
Lecchese
Vallassinese
Milanese
Ossolano
Southwestern
Cremunés
Novarese
Pavese
Ticinese
Varesino
Piedmontese
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Gallo-RomanceLanguesd'oïl
Angevin
Berrichon
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
Gallo
French
Jersey
Meridional
North American dialects
Canadian
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay French
Brayon
Newfoundland
Quebec
Joual
Magoua
Franco-Ontarian
Métis
Muskrat
New England
Frenchville
Louisiania
Houma
Missouri French
Creoles
Lorrain
Welche
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Sercquiais
Orléanais
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Faetar
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Moselle Romance
Ibero-Romance(WestIberian)Asturleonese
Asturian
Western Asturian
Cantabrian
Leonese
Mirandese
Galician-Portuguese
Fala
Galician
Galician-Asturian/Eonavian
Minderico
Portugis
Portuguese
dialects
African
Asian
Brazilian
Mineiro
European
Estremenho
Uruguayan
Creoles
Judaeo-Portuguese
Castilian
Amazonic Spanish
Extremaduran
Judaeo-Spanish
Spanish
dialects
Equatoguinean
Latin American
Peruvian
Peruvian Ribereño
Peninsular
Andalusian
Llanito
Castilian
Castrapo
Castúo
Murcian
Philippine
Saharan
Creoles
Old Spanish
Others
Andalusi Romance
Barranquenho (mixed Portuguese–Spanish)
Caló (mixed Romani–Ibero- and Occitano-Romance)
Navarro-Aragonese
Aragonese
Judaeo-Aragonese
Occitano-Romance
Catalan
dialects
Eastern
Algherese
Balearic
Menorcan
Central
Northern
Judaeo-Catalan
Patuet
Western
Catalan Ribagorçan
Valencian
Occitan
Auvergnat
Gascon
Aranese
Béarnese
Landese
Judeo-Gascon
Judeo-Provençal
Languedocien
Limousin
Provençal
Niçard
Vivaro-Alpine
Gardiol
Mentonasc
Old Occitan
Old Catalan
Rhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Fornes
Ladin
Cadorino
Nones
Romansh
Jauer
Putèr
Surmiran
Sursilvan
Vallader
Others
Mediterranean Lingua Franca (Western Romance-based pidgin)
Venetian (unknown further classification)
Chipilo
Fiuman
Talian
Triestine
Others
African Romance
British Latin
Pannonian Romance
Sardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Reconstructed
Proto-Romance
Italics indicate extinct languages
Bold indicates languages with more than 5 million speakers
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
vteLanguages of Europe Sovereign states
Albania
Andorra
Armenia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Moldova
Monaco
Montenegro
Netherlands
North Macedonia
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
San Marino
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Vatican City
States with limitedrecognition
Abkhazia
Artsakh
Kosovo
Northern Cyprus
South Ossetia
Transnistria
Dependencies andother entities
Åland
Faroe Islands
Gibraltar
Guernsey
Isle of Man
Jersey
Svalbard
Other entities
European Union
Sovereign Military Order of Malta
vteLanguages of South America Sovereign states
Argentina
Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Ecuador
Guyana
Paraguay
Peru
Suriname
Uruguay
Venezuela
Dependencies andother territories
Falkland Islands
French Guiana
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
vteModern PortugueseAfrican(African)
Angolan
Cape Verdean
Guinean
Mozambican
São Tomean
American(American)
Brazilian:
Caipira
Central Northeastern
Florianopolitan/Manês
Gaúcho
Mineiro
North Coast/Cearense
Paulistano
Sertanejo [pt]
Curitibano/Sulista [pt]
Carioca [pt]
Serra amazônica [pt]
Brasiliense [pt]
Recifense [pt]
Portuguese language Outside Brazil:
Uruguayan
Asian(Asian)
East Timorese
Goan
Macau
European(European)
Açoriano [pt]
Alentejan
Algarvio [pt]
Estremenho
Nortenho
Oliventine
Transmontano [pt]
Judaeo-Portuguese
See also
Geographic distribution of Portuguese
Brazilian diaspora
Portuguese diaspora
Portuguese phonology
Portuguese vocabulary
Phonology
Portuñol
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portuguese_language&oldid=1172631656"
Categories: Portuguese languageLanguages attested from the 9th centuryFusional languagesCommunity of Portuguese Language CountriesLanguages of AngolaLanguages of BrazilLanguages of Cape VerdeLanguages of East TimorLanguages of Guinea-BissauLanguages of MacauLanguages of MozambiqueLanguages of PortugalLanguages of São Tomé and PríncipeLanguages of IndiaLingua francasSubject–verb–object languagesHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 25CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)CS1 Portuguese-language sources (pt)Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 Italian-language sources (it)Language articles citing Ethnologue 26CS1 Galician-language sources (gl)Articles containing Portuguese-language textArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles to be merged from May 2023All articles to be mergedUse American English from May 2020All Wikipedia articles written in American EnglishUse dmy dates from November 2020All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2023Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing French-language textArticles containing Spanish-language textArticles containing Italian-language textArticles containing Romanian-language textArticles containing Latin-language textArticles containing Catalan-language textArticles containing Sardinian-language textArticles with unsourced statements from November 2022Articles with unsourced statements from January 2023Articles with unsourced statements from June 2023Articles with excerptsArticles with Curlie linksPages using Sister project links with wikidata namespace mismatchPages using Sister project links with hidden wikidataArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles containing video clips
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 08:57 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width