Grove Music Online in Oxford Music Online
273 captures
22 Dec 2007 - 04 Mar 2023
Aug
JAN
May
13
2010
2011
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: University of Michigan Bentley Historical Library
  Archive-It Partner 934: University of Michigan Bentley Historical Library
Collection: University of Michigan Schools, Colleges, Research, Centers, and Institutes Web Archives
  This web archives documents essential functions of the University of Michigan related to scholarship, instruction, research, and the conferral of degrees.  As such, these archived websites are records of enduring historical and administrative value that complement and/or supplement additional physical and digital archives held by the University of Michigan's Bentley Historical Library.  In addition to websites of the university's 19 schools and colleges, the collection includes online resources of individual departments, institutions and centers, laboratories, libraries and museums, and faculty.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20110113160329/http://www.oxfordmusiconline.com/public/book/omo_gmo
Accessibility Links
Skip to content
Skip to search
 
Oxford Music Online
Home
About
What's New
                            Subscriber Services
                        
Contact Us
Help
Log In
About
                        What's new
                    
                        How to subscribe
                    
Free trials
Guided tour
Grove Music Online
Editorial Board and Advisory Panel
The Oxford Companion to Music
The Oxford Dictionary of
Music
Encyclopedia of Popular Music
About Grove Music Online
Grove Music Online has been the leading online resource for music research since its inception in 2001, a glorious compendium of music scholarship offering the full texts of The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, 2nd edition (2001), The New Grove Dictionary of Opera (1992), and The New Grove Dictionary of Jazz, 2nd edition (2002), as well as numerous subsequent updates and emendations. Including more than 50,000 signed articles and 30,000 biographies contributed by over 6,000 scholars from around the world, Grove Music Online is the unsurpassed authority on all aspects of music.
Subscriptions to Grove Music Online also include access to The Oxford Companion to Music (2002) and The Oxford Dictionary of Music, 2nd edition (revised 2006), which supplement Grove's more extensive coverage with content geared toward undergraduates and general users. Many articles feature Sibelius-enabled musical examples to illustrate particular concepts and styles, and the tools and resources page offers specific pathways into the content including timelines and topical guides. In addition, a robust linking program connects users to music bibliographies in the RILM database and sound examples via partnerships with Classical Music Library and DRAM. Biographical articles in Grove Music Online are also linked to their counterparts in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography for mutual subscribers to both resources. Please visit our tips page to learn more about navigating the site.
Letter from the Editor September 2009
Press release announcing Deane Root as Editor in Chief (Sept 2009)
Letter from the Editor March 2008
Editorial Board, Advisory Panel, and Major Project Editors
The Grove Music program at Oxford University Press has an editorial board of five distinguished scholars who guide the long-term development of Grove, an advisory panel of representatives from eight societies devoted to music scholarship, and a team of major project editors who oversee the production of Grove’s specialized works.
Editorial Board, Advisory Panel, and Major Project Editors
Search Grove Music Online
Advanced
            Search
About
What's new
                    How to subscribe
                
Free trials
Guided tour
Copyright © Oxford University Press 2007 — 2011.
                        Privacy Policy and Legal Notices
                    
Copyright © Oxford University Press 2007 — 2011.