Bilingualism as a gradient measure modulates functional connectivity of language and control networks
  
    
    
    
    
      
  Bilingualism as a gradient measure modulates functional connectivity of language and control networks
    
  
Neuroimage. 2020 Jan 15;205:116306.
        doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116306.
      
        Epub 2019 Oct 22.
      
            Authors
          
Simone Sulpizio 
                1
              , Nicola Del Maschio 
                2
              , Gianpaolo Del Mauro 
                2
              , Davide Fedeli 
                2
              , Jubin Abutalebi 
                3
              
            Affiliations
          
1 Centre for Neurolinguistics and Psycholinguistics (CNPL), Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Italy; Faculty of Psychology, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University and Scientific Institute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy.
2 Centre for Neurolinguistics and Psycholinguistics (CNPL), Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Italy.
3 Centre for Neurolinguistics and Psycholinguistics (CNPL), Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Italy; Faculty of Psychology, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University and Scientific Institute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy; The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway; Centre for Cognition and Decision Making, National Research University Higher School of Economics, Moscow, Russia. Electronic address: abutalebi.jubin@hsr.it.
    
      PMID:
    
  
      31654763
    
    
      DOI:
    
  
      10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116306
    
        Abstract
        
      
      
      There is currently no agreement on which factor modulates most effectively and enduringly brain plasticity in bilingual individuals. Grouping heterogeneous linguistic profiles under a dichotomous condition (bilingualism versus monolingualism) may obscure critical aspects of language experience underlying neural changes, thus leading to variable and often conflicting findings. In the present study, we overcome these limitations by analyzing the individual and joint contribution of L2 AoA, proficiency and usage - all measured as continuous variables - on the resting-state functional connectivity of the brain networks mediating the specific demands of bilingual language processing: the language network and the executive control network. Our results indicate that bilingual experience - defined as a continuous and multifaceted phenomenon - impacts brain plasticity by modulating the functional connectivity both within and between language and control networks. Each experience-related factor considered played a role in changing the connectivity of these regions. Moreover, the effect of AoA was modulated by proficiency and usage. These findings shed new light on the importance of modeling bilingualism as a gradient measure rather than an all-or-none phenomenon.
    
          Keywords:
        
      
      Bilingualism; Language experience; Neuroplasticity; Resting-state connectivity.
    
    Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
  
        MeSH terms
      
                  
                    
  Adult
                  
                
                  
                    
  Cerebral Cortex / diagnostic imaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Cerebral Cortex / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Connectome*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Executive Function / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Humans
                  
                
                  
                    
  Magnetic Resonance Imaging*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Multilingualism*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Nerve Net / diagnostic imaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Nerve Net / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Neuronal Plasticity / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Young Adult
                  
                