Your Executive | Northern Ireland Executive
Skip to content
 
Site Search *
Menu
Main menuHome
Topics
Publications
Consultations
Contact
  
 
 
Your Executive
The NI Executive is made up of the First Minister, deputy First Minister, and eight departmental Ministers.
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee exercises executive authority on behalf of the Northern Ireland Assembly, and takes decisions on significant issues and matters which cut across the responsibility of two or more Ministers. It also agrees proposals put forward by Ministers for new legislation in the form of ‘Executive Bills’ for consideration by the Assembly. It is also responsible for drawing up a programme for government and an agreed budget for approval by the Assembly.
Appointed by the Assembly
The First Minister and deputy First Minister are nominated respectively by the largest parties of the largest and second largest political designations in the Assembly. Ministers of the Executive, with the exception of the Minister of Justice, are nominated by the political parties in the Northern Ireland Assembly. The number of Ministers which a party can nominate is determined by its share of seats in the Assembly.
The Minister of Justice is appointed through a nomination made by the First and deputy First Minister acting jointly and approved by a cross-community resolution of the Assembly. The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly and each Minister has responsibility for a specific Northern Ireland government department.
Ministerial Code
The Ministerial Code sets out the rules and procedures to which all ministers must adhere. It includes the Pledge of Office, the Ministerial Code of Conduct, and the Seven Principles of Public Life, as well as provisions governing the functioning of the Executive Committee.
Ministerial Code
More useful links
Public appointments - nidirect website
Attorney General for Northern Ireland website
Subtopics
 Government departments 
 
Northern Ireland Executive departments
Read more
 
 Ministerial Code 
 
The Ministerial Code sets out the rules and procedures for the exercise of the duties and responsibilities of Ministers and junior Ministers of the Northern Ireland Assembly as specified in the Belfast Agreement, the Northern Ireland Act 1998, the St Andrews Agreement and the Northern Ireland (St Andrews Agreement) Act 2006.
Read more
 
    
          Related to     
    
          Your Executive    
    
    
  
      Most recent publications    
 General Election guidance 2017  
 21 April 2017  
 Northern Ireland Executive Ministerial Code 
 06 April 2006  
Read more about The Northern Ireland Executive
 
Back to top
nidirect
nibusinessinfo.co.uk
GOV.UK
© Crown Copyright
Terms and Conditions
Privacy
Cookies
Accessibility statement