Asia Times Online :: Southeast Asia news and business from Indonesia, 
Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam
125 captures
24 Mar 2006 - 27 May 2023
Feb
MAR
Jun
24
2005
2006
2007
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawl EH
  Crawl EH from Alexa Internet.  This data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20060324183428/http://atimes.com:80/atimes/Southeast_Asia/HC24Ae01.html
              
Front 
Page      
Greater China  China 
Business South 
Asia       Southeast 
Asia  Japan               Korea               Middle 
East      Central 
Asia      
World EconomyAsian 
Economy
Book 
Reviews   Letters              Forum              
    Southeast 
Asia
     
Mar 24, 2006
Racism alive and well in 
                              MalaysiaBy Baradan Kuppusamy 
                              KUALA LUMPUR - Malaysia's first serious 
                              survey of race relations in more than 50 years 
                              indicates that behind the government-promoted 
                              facade of unity and peace, racism runs deep in one 
                              of Asia's most multi-ethnic melting pots. 
                              The telephone survey of about 1,200 
                              Malaysians also found that the majority of the 
                              various races find comfort and security in their
respective ethnicity and not, 
                              as the official travel and tourism brochures 
                              suggest, in a common "Malaysian" identity. 
                              The survey, conducted by the independent 
                              Merdeka Center for Opinion Research, also found 
                              that negative racial stereotyping was deeply 
                              entrenched. For example, minority Chinese and 
                              Indians see the majority Malays, who make up 60% 
                              of Malaysia's 25 million population, as lazy. 
                              Chinese and Indians, who began migrating 
                              to Malaysia in the early 19th century, make up 26% 
                              and 8% of the population, respectively. 
                              The survey's results cast a harsh light on 
                              the government's New Economic Policy (NEP), which 
                              was originally designed to promote social harmony 
                              and economic equality. Since 1970, the government 
                              has maintained a policy of positive discrimination 
                              that favors ethnic Malays over other races - 
                              including preferential treatment in employment, 
                              education, scholarships, business, access to 
                              cheaper housing and assisted savings. In 
                              particular, these measures were aimed at reducing 
                              the yawning gap with the ethnic-Chinese community, 
                              which still dominates business in Malaysia, as it 
                              does throughout most of Southeast Asia. 
                              Malaysia's ethnic-Chinese community was on 
                              the receiving end of the murderous 1969 race riots 
                              that prompted former prime minister Mahathir 
                              Mohamad to pass the NEP. In a bid to maintain 
                              social order, Mahathir often blacked out foreign 
                              news coverage when racial tensions erupted in 
                              nearby Indonesia, where the Chinese are also a 
                              minority population. Originally designed 
                              to last for 20 years, the NEP has continued 
                              without check, sparking envy and resentment 
                              between Malays and non-Malays. Private companies 
                              must hand over 30% of equity to ethnic Malays and 
                              a portion of housing and commercial property must 
                              be sold to them. "The findings are not at 
                              all surprising," social scientist Chandra Muzaffar 
                              said of the survey. "This is partly because ethnic 
                              boundaries are real in our society and almost 
                              every sphere of public life is linked to ethnicity 
                              in one way or another." In a nation that 
                              claims to be a "melting pot", only 11% of the 
                              respondents said they had eaten often with friends 
                              from other races in the previous three months, and 
                              34% said they had never had a meal with people of 
                              other races. About 42% of the population 
                              do not consider themselves Malaysian first, and 
                              46% said ethnicity was important in voting, 55% 
                              blamed politicians for racial problems and 70% 
                              would help their own ethnic group first. According 
                              to the survey, 58% of Malays, 63% of Chinese and 
                              43% of Indians polled agreed with the survey item 
                              that "in general, most Malays are lazy". 
                              Meanwhile, 71% of Malays, 60% of Chinese 
                              and 47% of Indians agreed with the generalization 
                              that "in general, most Chinese are greedy". About 
                              64% of Malays, 58% of Chinese and 20% of Indians 
                              agreed that "in general, most Indians cannot be 
                              trusted". The survey, commissioned by the 
                              semi-official New Straits Times newspaper and 
                              supported by the Friedrich Naumann Foundation, is 
                              the first honest look at Malaysian society in half 
                              a century, and the findings have left many 
                              Malaysians gasping in disbelief at how firmly 
                              racism and racial stereotyping have become 
                              entrenched and accepted as a way of life. 
                              The Merdeka Center said the survey "gives 
                              an honest picture of the country's situation and 
                              interracial perception" and warns that extremists 
                              can take advantage of interracial fears and 
                              suspicions in the absence of a meaningful 
                              interaction. The ruling National Front 
                              government of Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi works 
                              hard to portray the country as an example of 
                              multiculturalism where Muslims, Hindus and 
                              Christians live together in peace. But 
                              experts have been voicing concern that, 
                              increasingly, the communities are drifting apart 
                              and that polarization of the races and a lack of 
                              social unity were on the rise. They squarely blame 
                              the politicians and the country's race-based 
                              politics for the sharp rise in racism. The 
                              findings have prompted civil-society groups to 
                              demand a new ban on all race-based political 
                              parties. "Let us outlaw all Malaysian 
                              political parties that restrict membership on 
                              grounds of race, religion or sex," said lawyer A 
                              Sivanesan, who is senior leader of the opposition 
                              Democratic Action Party, one of the four 
                              registered multi-racial parties in the country. 
                              "It should be written in the constitution that 
                              only multi-racial bodies be permitted." 
                              Others say the few multi-racial political 
                              parties are weak and unable to grow because of the 
                              strong domination of race-based parties over the 
                              political system. "What the survey clearly 
                              shows is that the various races live peacefully 
                              but separately," Sivanesan said. "Half a century 
                              after independence we are further away from 
                              knowing each other than when we started - separate 
                              schools, separate friends, separate lives." 
                              Curiously, the survey showed that many 
                              Malaysians had vague ideas not only of one 
                              another's cultures and traditions but also of 
                              their own. Hari Raya Puasa was wrongly perceived 
                              as the Malay New Year by 32% of Malays, 84% of 
                              Chinese and 45% of Indians - the festival actually 
                              marks the culmination of Ramadan, the holy month 
                              of fasting. Similarly, the Chinese New Year was 
                              thought to be a religious festival by 57% of 
                              Malays, 53% of Indians and a whopping 62% of 
                              Chinese respondents. Despite the lack of 
                              unity, the country has enjoyed long periods of 
                              peace since the 1969 race riots. And unlike in 
                              some neighboring countries, notably Singapore, 
                              where uniformity is enforced, Malaysia's 
                              minorities are not restricted and are free to 
                              practice their own cultures and religions and 
                              enjoy a vernacular education. Former 
                              deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim, who was 
                              sacked and jailed in 1998, has caused a stir by 
                              proposing to reform the political landscape, which 
                              he says is straining national harmony. "We 
                              need to appeal to the Malays, Chinese and the 
                              Indians and the rest that we need to go beyond 
                              race-based politics. If you continue to harp and 
                              support this racial equation, you will never be 
                              able to overcome racial divisions," he told 
                              supporters at a recent rally. The 
                              government is aware of the deep divide and has 
                              taken measures to close the gap. One experiment in 
                              racial integration is the "Vision Schools" 
                              initiative in which students share sports fields, 
                              assembly halls and canteens, but attend classes 
                              conducted in their own languages. But the 
                              initiative is embroiled in controversy, mainly 
                              because of the fear among Chinese and Indians that 
                              the vernacular education system would suffer and 
                              erode their ethnic identities. A popular 
                              initiative, the national-service program, started 
                              in 2004, puts youths of all races under a single 
                              roof. Students are chosen at random and taken to 
                              camps for about three months in the hope that they 
                              will learn teamwork and absorb one another's 
                              cultures. But the experts say racism is too deeply 
                              entrenched in official policies and the 
                              socio-political system for such "halfhearted" 
                              measures to make impact. "The survey's 
                              findings might be a bitter pill to swallow, but it 
                              tells us who we really are behind the facade we 
                              show the world," said Sivanesan. (Inter 
                              
Press Service)
Islam becomes hot topic in 
                              Malaysia (Jan 4, '06)The search for a Malaysian 
                              race (Jan 15, '05)
China 
Travel
China 
Tours
Yangtze 
River Cruise
Great 
Wall of China
China 
Airline
Map 
of China
Bangkok 
Hotels
Phuket 
Hotels
Pattaya 
Hotels
Samui 
Hotels
Bali 
Hotels
Kuala 
Lumpur Hotels
 
 
All material on this 
website is copyright and may not be republished in any form without written 
permission.
© Copyright 1999 - 2006 Asia Times 
Online Ltd.
Head 
Office: Rm 202, Hau Fook Mansion, No. 8 Hau Fook St., Kowloon, Hong 
Kong
Thailand Bureau:
11/13 Petchkasem Road, Hua Hin, Prachuab Kirikhan, Thailand 77110
 