Wikipedia:Policies and guidelines - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Derivation
2Role
3Adherence
4Enforcement
5­Content
6Not part of the encyclopedia
7Life cycle
Toggle Life cycle subsection
7.1Proposals
7.1.1Good practice for proposals
7.2Demotion
7.3Content changes
7.3.1Substantive changes
7.4Conflicts between advice pages
8Naming
9See also
10Notes
11Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Wikipedia:Policies and guidelines
104 languages
Afrikaansአማርኛالعربيةঅসমীয়াАварAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBanjarБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीБългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskالدارجةDeutschDiné bizaadΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalegoГӀалгӀайگیلکی한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiBahasa HulontaloBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתKalaallisutಕನ್ನಡქართულიकॉशुर / کٲشُرҚазақшаKurdîКыргызчаລາວLëtzebuergeschMagyarमैथिलीМакедонскиമലയാളംمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuMinangkabauမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपाली日本語NapulitanoНохчийнNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаپښتوPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRomani čhibРусскийScotsShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSundaSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtייִדישYorùbá粵語中文
Edit links
Project pageTalk
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadView sourceView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsMediaWikiMeta-WikiWikimedia OutreachWikispeciesWikibooksWikidataWikinewsWikiquoteWikisourceWikiversityWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
"WP:POL" redirects here. For the WikiProject about politics, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Politics. For the WikiProject about the Republic of Poland, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Poland.
Wikimedia procedural policy
This page documents a procedural policy of Wikipedia.It documents various processes by which the English Wikipedia operates.ShortcutsWP:PGWP:RULESWP:POLICYWP:GUIDELINE
This page in a nutshell: Wikipedia's policies and guidelines are pages that serve to document the good practices accepted in the Wikipedia community. This policy describes how our policies and guidelines should normally be developed and maintained.
Policies and guidelines (list)
Principles
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content policies
Article titles
Biographies of living persons
Image use
Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability
What Wikipedia is not (Not a dictionary)
Conduct policies
Civility
Clean start
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Edit warring
Editing policy
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Username policy
Vandalism
Other policy categories
Deletion
Enforcement
Legal
Procedural
Directories
List of policies
List of guidelines
Manual of Style contents
vte
Wikipedia's policies and guidelines are developed by the community to describe best practices, clarify principles, resolve conflicts, and otherwise further our goal of creating a free, reliable encyclopedia. There is no need to read any policy or guideline pages to start editing. The five pillars are a popular summary of the most pertinent principles.
Although Wikipedia generally does not employ hard-and-fast rules, Wikipedia's policy and guideline pages describe its principles and agreed-upon best practices. Policies are standards all users should normally follow, and guidelines are generally meant to be best practices for following those standards in specific contexts. Policies and guidelines should always be applied using reason and common sense.
This policy page specifies the community standards related to the organization, life cycle, maintenance of, and adherence to policies, guidelines, and related pages of the English Wikipedia. It does not cover other editions of Wikipedia. (See Wikipedia:List of policies and Wikipedia:List of guidelines for a comprehensive listing of individual English Wikipedia policies and guidelines.)
Derivation
Further information: Wikipedia:Administration § Human and legal administration
Wikipedia is operated by the not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation, which reserves certain legal rights—see the Wikimedia Foundation's Policies page for a list of its policies. See also Role of Jimmy Wales. Nevertheless, normally Wikipedia is a self-governing project run by its community. Its policies and guidelines are intended to reflect the consensus of the community.
Role
Further information: Wikipedia:The difference between policies, guidelines and essays
ShortcutsWP:POLICIESWP:GUIDES
Policies have wide acceptance among editors and describe standards all users should normally follow. All policy pages are in Wikipedia:List of policies and guidelines and Category:Wikipedia policies. For summaries of key policies, see also List of policies.
Guidelines are sets of best practices supported by consensus. Editors should attempt to follow guidelines, though they are best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Guideline pages can be found in Wikipedia:List of policies and guidelines and Category:Wikipedia guidelines. For summaries of key guidelines, see also List of guidelines.
Essays are the opinion or advice of an editor or group of editors for which widespread consensus has not been established. They do not speak for the entire community and may be created and written without approval. Essays the author does not want others to edit, or that contradict widespread consensus, belong in the user namespace. (For more information, see Wikipedia:Essays.)
Other administration pages in the project namespace include:
Process pages, which facilitate the application of the policies and guidelines (e.g. Wikipedia:Articles for deletion),
WikiProject pages, including essays they have written to give advice to other editors about their areas of interest,
How-to or help pages (also found in the Help namespace), which provide mainly technical information,
Information pages, which generally provide factual information,
Supplements to guidelines and policies, which explain advice in greater detail,
Community discussion pages and noticeboards for communication between editors, and
Historical pages, which are outdated.[1]
These other pages are not policies or guidelines, although they may contain valuable advice or information.
Adherence
ShortcutWP:ADHERENCE
Use common sense in interpreting and applying policies and guidelines; rules have occasional exceptions. However, those who violate the spirit of a rule may be reprimanded or sanctioned even if they do not technically break the rule.
Whether a policy or guideline is an accurate description of best practice is determined through consensus.
On discussion pages and in edit summaries, shortcuts are often used to refer to policies and guidelines. (For example, WP:NOR (no original research), WP:NPOV (neutral point of view) and WP:BLP (biographies of living persons)). Similar shortcuts are also used for other types of project pages like essays and how-to guides. Thus a shortcut does not necessarily imply the linked page has policy or guideline status or has been widely accepted by the community. Additionally, the shortcut is not the policy; the plain-English definition of the page's title or shortcut may be importantly different from the linked page.
Enforcement
Further information: Wikipedia:Enforcement policies, Wikipedia:Active sanctions, and Wikipedia:Arbitration enforcement
ShortcutsWP:ENFORCEMENTWP:ENFORCE
Enforcement on Wikipedia is similar to other social interactions. If an editor violates the community standards described in policies and guidelines, other editors can persuade the person to adhere to acceptable norms of conduct, over time resorting to more forceful means, such as administrator and steward actions. In the case of gross violations of community norms, they are likely to resort to more forceful means fairly rapidly. Going against the principles set out on these pages, particularly policy pages, is unlikely to prove acceptable, although it may be possible to convince fellow editors an exception ought to be made. This means individual editors (including you) enforce and apply policies and guidelines.
In cases where it is clear a user is acting against policy (or against a guideline in a way that conflicts with policy), especially if they are doing so intentionally and persistently, that user may be temporarily or indefinitely blocked from editing by an administrator. In cases where the general dispute resolution procedure has been ineffective, the Arbitration Committee has the power to deal with highly disruptive or sensitive situations.
­Content
See also: Wikipedia:Avoid instruction creep
Policy and guideline pages should:
Be clear. Avoid esoteric or quasi-legal terms or dumbed-down language. Be plain, direct, unambiguous, and specific. Avoid platitudes and generalities. Even in guidelines, help pages, and other non-policy pages, do not be afraid to tell editors directly they must or should do something.
Be as concise as possible—but no more concise. Verbosity is not a reliable defense against misinterpretation. Omit needless words. Direct, concise writing may be clearer than rambling examples. Footnotes and links to other pages may be used for further clarification.
Emphasize the spirit of the rule. Expect editors to use common sense. If the spirit of the rule is clear, say no more.
Maintain scope and avoid redundancy. Clearly identify the purpose and scope early in the page, as many readers will just look at the beginning. Content should be within the scope of its policy. When the scope of one advice page overlaps with the scope of another, minimize redundancy. When one policy refers to another policy, it should do so briefly, clearly and explicitly.
Avoid overlinking. Policies and guidelines may contain links to any type of page, including essays and articles. However, such links should only appear when clarification or context is needed. Links to other advice pages may inadvertently or intentionally defer authority to them.  Make it clear when such links defer, and when they do not.
Not contradict each other. The community's view cannot simultaneously be "A" and "not A". When apparent discrepancies arise between pages, editors at all the affected pages should discuss how they can most accurately represent the community's current position and correct all the pages to reflect the community's view. This discussion should be on one talk page, with invitations to that page at the talk pages of the various affected pages; otherwise, the corrections may still contradict each other.
Not part of the encyclopedia
ShortcutWP:NOTPART
Further information: Wikipedia:Project namespace § Content
Wikipedia has many policies and guidelines about encyclopedic content. These standards require verifiability, neutrality, respect for living people, and more.
The policies, guidelines, and process pages themselves are not part of the encyclopedia proper. Consequently, they do not generally need to conform to the same content standards or style conventions as articles. It is therefore not necessary to provide reliable sources to verify Wikipedia's administrative pages, or to phrase Wikipedia procedures or principles in a neutral manner, or to cite an outside authority in determining Wikipedia's editorial practices. Instead, the content of these pages is controlled by community-wide consensus, and the style should emphasize clarity, directness, and usefulness to other editors.[2]
These pages do, however, need to comply with Wikipedia's legal and behavioral policies, as well as policies applicable to non-content pages. For example, editors may not violate copyrights anywhere on Wikipedia, and edit warring is prohibited everywhere, not merely in encyclopedia articles.
Life cycle
ShortcutWP:PGLIFE
Many of the most well-established policies and guidelines have developed from principles that have been accepted as fundamental since Wikipedia's inception. Others developed as solutions to common problems and disruptive editing. Policy and guideline pages are seldom established without precedent[3] and always require strong community support. Policies and guidelines may be established through new proposals, promotion of existing essays or guidelines, and reorganization of existing policies and guidelines through splitting and merging.
Essays and information pages may be established by writing them and adding {{essay}}, {{Information page}}, {{Wikipedia how-to}}, or a similar template to the page.
Current policy and guideline proposals can be found in Category:Wikipedia proposals, and failed proposals can be found in Category:Wikipedia failed proposals. All editors are welcome to comment on these proposals.
Proposals
ShortcutWP:PROPOSAL
Further information: Wikipedia:How to contribute to Wikipedia guidance
"WP:PROPOSAL" redirects here. For propose for deletion page, see Wikipedia:Proposed deletion and Wikipedia:Deletion requests.
See also: Wikipedia:Polling is not a substitute for discussion § Policy and guidelines, and Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not § Wikipedia is not a bureaucracy
Proposals for new guidelines and policies require discussion and a high level of consensus from the entire community for promotion to guideline or policy status. Adding the {{policy}} template to a page without the required consensus does not mean the page is policy, even if the page summarizes or copies policy. Most commonly, a new policy or guideline documents existing practices, rather than proposing a change to what experienced editors already choose to do. 
Good practice for proposals
One path for proposals is developing them through steps of
{{brainstorming}}
{{draft proposal}}
{{proposal}}
{{policy}} or {{guideline}}
The first step is to write the best initial proposal you can. Authors can request early-stage feedback at Wikipedia's village pump for idea incubation and from any relevant WikiProjects. Amendments to a proposal can be discussed on its talk page. It is crucial to improve a proposal in response to feedback received from outside editors. Consensus is built through a process of listening to and discussing the proposal with many other editors.
Once you think the initial proposal is well written, and the issues involved have been sufficiently discussed among early participants to create a proposal that has a solid chance of success with the broader community, start a request for comment (RfC) about your policy or guideline proposal in a new section at WP:Village Pump/Policy (VPPOL), or on the proposal's talk page and advertised with a notice at VPPOL. Include the {{rfc|policy}} tag, along with a brief, time-stamped explanation of the proposal. Then, if you want, you can provide a detailed explanation of what the page does and why you think it should be a policy or guideline. The {{Proposal}} template should be placed at the top of the proposed page; this tag will get the proposal properly categorized.
The RfC should typically be announced at the policy and/or proposals village pumps, and you should notify other potentially interested groups. If your proposal affects a specific content area, then related WikiProjects can be found at the WikiProject directory. If your proposal relates to an existing policy or guideline, then leave a note on the talk page of the related policy or guideline. For example, proposed style guidelines should be announced at Wikipedia talk:Manual of Style, which is the main guideline for style issues. Try to identify the subcategory of guideline or policy (see {{Subcat guideline}} template). Proposals involving contentious subjects or wide-ranging effects should normally be listed on Wikipedia:Centralized discussion for the duration of the RfC. Rarely, a particularly important proposal may be advertised via a watchlist notice; sitenotices (which are displayed to all readers, not just to active editors) are not used for proposals. RfCs for policy and guideline proposals are normally left open for at least a week or sometimes a couple of months.
To avoid later complaints about insufficient notice, it may be helpful to provide a complete list of the groups or pages you used to advertise the proposal on the talk page. Be careful not to canvass, and avoid non-neutral wording.
Editors should respond to proposals in a way that helps identify and build consensus. Explain your thoughts, ask questions, and raise concerns. Many editors begin their responses with bold-font 'vote' of support or opposition to make evaluation easier.
Closing a discussion requires careful evaluation of the responses to determine the consensus. This does not require the intervention of an administrator; it may be done by any sufficiently experienced impartial editor, not involved in the discussion, who is familiar with all policies and guidelines related to the proposal. The following points are important in evaluating consensus:
Consensus for guidelines and policies should be reasonably strong, though unanimity is not required.
There must be exposure to the community beyond just the authors of the proposal.
Consider the strength of the proposed page:
Have major concerns raised during the community discussion been addressed?
Does the proposal contradict any existing guidelines or policies?
Can the new proposed guideline or policy be merged into an existing one?
Is the proposed guideline or policy, or some part of it, redundant with an existing guideline or policy?
A proposal's status is not determined by counting votes. Polling is not a substitute for discussion, nor is a poll's numerical outcome tantamount to consensus.
If consensus for broad community support has not developed after a reasonable time, the proposal has failed. If consensus is neutral or unclear on the issue and unlikely to improve, the proposal has likewise failed.
Discussion may be closed as one of: Promote, No consensus, or Failed. Please leave a short note about the conclusion you came to. Update the proposal to reflect the consensus. Remove the {{Proposal}} template and replace it with another appropriate template, such as {{Subcat guideline}}, {{Policy}}, {{Supplement}}, {{essay}}, or {{Failed proposal}}. See Wikipedia namespace templates for a listing of banners.
If a proposal fails, the failed tag should not usually be removed. It is typically more productive to rewrite a failed proposal from scratch to address problems or seek consensus to integrate uncontroversial aspects of it into existing pages, rather than to re-nominate a proposal.
Demotion
ShortcutWP:HISTORICAL
See also: Wikipedia:Project namespace § Deletion of project pages, and Wikipedia:Project namespace § Historical pages
An accepted policy or guideline may become obsolete because of changes in editorial practice or community standards, may become redundant because of improvements to other pages, or may represent unwarranted instruction creep. In such situations editors may propose that a policy be demoted to a guideline, or that a policy or guideline be demoted to a supplement, informational page, essay or historical page. In certain cases, a policy or guideline may be superseded, in which case the old page is marked and retained for historical interest.
The process for demotion is similar to promotion. A talk page discussion is typically started, the {{Under discussion|status|Discussion Title}} template is added to the top of the project page, and community input is solicited. After a reasonable amount of time for comments, an independent editor should close the discussion and evaluate the discussion and determine whether a consensus has formed to change the status.
The {{Disputed tag}} template is typically used instead of {{Under discussion}} for claims that a page was recently assigned guideline or policy status without proper or sufficient consensus being established.
Essays, information pages, and other informal pages that are supported by only a small minority of the community are typically moved to the primary author's userspace. These discussions typically happen on the page's talk page, sometimes with an RfC, but they have at times also been conducted at Miscellany for deletion (despite the MFD guidelines explicitly discouraging this practice). Other pages are retained for historical reference and are marked as such.
Content changes
ShortcutWP:PGCHANGE
See also: Wikipedia:Policy writing is hard
Policies and guidelines can be edited like any other Wikipedia page. It is not strictly necessary to discuss changes or to obtain written documentation of a consensus in advance. However, because policies and guidelines are sensitive and complex, users should take care over any edits, to be sure they are faithfully reflecting the community's view and to be sure they are not accidentally introducing new sources of error or confusion.
Keep in mind that the purpose of policies and guidelines is to state what most Wikipedians agree upon, and should be phrased to reflect the present consensus on a subject. Editing a policy/guideline/essay page does not in itself imply an immediate change to accepted practice. It is, naturally, bad practice to recommend a rejected practice on a policy or guideline page.
As explained below, you may update best practices by editing boldly or by working toward widespread consensus for your change through discussion.
Substantive changes
Further information: Wikipedia:Be bold § Wikipedia namespace
Implement. Before making substantive changes to policy and guideline pages, it is sometimes useful to try to establish a reasonable exception to the existing practice. To try to update the existing best practices this way, you may directly deviate from the established practice following the WP:IGNORE and WP:BOLD principles and make the change to mainspace pages. After some time, if there are no objections to the change and/or if a widespread consensus for your change or implementation is reached through discussion, you can then edit policy and guideline pages describing the practice to reflect the new situation.
ShortcutWP:TALKFIRST
Talk first. Talk page discussion typically precedes substantive changes to a policy. Changes may be made if there are no objections or if the discussion shows there is consensus for the change. Minor edits to improve formatting, grammar, and clarity may be made at any time.
If the result of discussions is unclear, then it should be evaluated by an administrator or other independent editor, as in the proposal process. Major changes should also be publicized to the community in general; announcements similar to the proposal process may be appropriate.
If wider input on a proposed change is desired, it may be useful to mark the section with the tag {{Under discussion|section|talk=Discussion Title}}. (If the proposal relates to a single statement, use {{Under discussion inline|Discussion Title}} immediately after it.)
ShortcutWP:PGBOLD
Or be bold. Although most editors find prior discussion, especially at well-developed pages, very helpful, directly editing these pages is permitted by Wikipedia's policies. Consequently, you should not remove any change solely on the grounds that there was no formal discussion indicating consensus for the change before it was made. Instead, you should give a substantive reason for challenging it either in your edit summary or on the talk page.
Bold editors of policy and guideline pages are strongly encouraged to follow WP:1RR or WP:0RR standards. Editing a policy to support your own argument in an active discussion may be seen as gaming the system, especially if you do not disclose your involvement in the argument when making the edits.
Conflicts between advice pages
ShortcutWP:POLCON
See also: Wikipedia:Content forking/Internal § Policy forks
If policy and/or guideline pages directly conflict, one or more pages need to be revised to resolve the conflict so all the conflicting pages accurately reflect the community's actual practices and best advice. As a temporary measure during that resolution process, if a guideline appears to conflict with a policy, editors may assume the policy takes precedence.
More commonly, advice pages do not directly conflict, but provide multiple options. For example, Wikipedia:Reliable sources says newspaper articles are generally considered to be reliable sources, and Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources (medicine) recommends against newspaper articles for certain technical purposes. Editors must use their best judgement to decide which advice is most appropriate and relevant to the specific situation at hand.
Naming
The page names of policies and guidelines usually do not include the words "policy" or "guideline", unless required to distinguish the page from another.
See also
Criticism of Wikipedia § Excessive rule-making
Wikipedia:List of policies and guidelines
Wikipedia:Requests for comment/Wikipedia policies and guidelines – a listing of policy and guideline proposals advertised through Wikipedia:Requests for comment
Wikipedia:Centralized discussion – a centralized list of ongoing policy discussions
Wikipedia:Perennial proposals – proposals that come up very often
Wikipedia:Product, process, policy – the place of policies in Wikipedia
Help:Introduction to policies and guidelines – major policies and guidelines for very new users
Wikipedia:Principles – an index of essays about the community's principles and values
Wikipedia:Simplified ruleset – an explanatory supplement of key policies and guidelines
Wikipedia:Wikimedia proposals – links to proposals at the wiki for Wikimedia
Notes
^ Many historical essays can still be found within Meta's essay category. The Wikimedia Foundation's Meta-Wiki was envisioned as the original place for editors to comment on and discuss Wikipedia, although the "Wikipedia" project space has since taken over most of that role.
^ There is no prohibition against including appropriate external references to support and explain our policies or guidelines, but such sources are not authoritative with respect to Wikipedia and should be used only to reinforce consensus.
^ Office declarations may establish unprecedented policies to avoid copyright, legal, or technical problems, though such declarations are rare.
Further reading
Mission statement – The Wikimedia Foundation
Wikimedia values – The six values of the Wikimedia Foundation
Wikimedia founding principles – Principles generally supported by all the Wikimedia communities
vteWikipedia key policies and guidelines (?)
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content (?)P
Verifiability
No original research
Neutral point of view
What Wikipedia is not
Biographies of living persons
Copyright (Copyright violations)
Image use
Article titles
G
Notability
Autobiography
Citing sources
Reliable sources
Medicine
Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources
Plagiarism
Don't create hoaxes
Fringe theories
Patent nonsense
External links
Conduct (?)P
Civility
Consensus
Harassment
Vandalism
Ignore all rules
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Edit warring
Dispute resolution
Sockpuppetry
No legal threats
Child protection
Paid-contribution disclosure
G
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers
Courtesy vanishing
Responding to threats of harm
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Deletion (?)P
Deletion policy
Proposed deletion
Biographies
Criteria for speedy deletion
Attack page
Oversight
Revision deletion
Enforcement (?)P
Administrators
Banning
Blocking
Page protection
Editing (?)P
Editing policy
G
Article size
Summary style
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Broad-concept article
Understandability
Style
Manual of Style
Contents
Accessibility
Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists
Classification
Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace
Project content (?)G
Project namespace
WikiProjects
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
WMF (?)P
Terms of Use
List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
List of all policies and guidelines
P: List of policies
G: List of guidelines
Summaries of values and principles
vteWikipedia accounts and governanceUnregistered (IP) users
Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper
Registered users
New account
Logging in
Reset passwords
Username policy
Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention
Unified login or SUL
Alternate account
Account security
Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication
2FA for AWB
Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts
How to not get outed
Blocks, bans, sanctions,global actions
Blocking policy
FAQ
Admin's guide
Tools
Autoblock
Appealing a block
Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System
Blocking IP addresses
Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies
Banning policy
ArbCom appeals
Sanctions
Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Contentious topics and Log
Essay
Long-term abuse
Standard offer
Global actions
Related to accounts
Sockpuppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak
Enforcer
Retiring
Courtesy vanishing
Clean start
Quiet return
User groups and global user groups
Requests for permissions
Admin instructions
Admin guide
Account creator
PERM
(Auto) confirmed
PERM
Autopatrolled
PERM
AutoWikiBrowser
PERM
Bot
Request
Edit filter helper
Request
Event coordinator
PERM
Extended confirmed
PERM
File mover
PERM
IP block exempt
Request
Mass message sender
PERM
New page reviewer
PERM
Page mover
PERM
Pending changes reviewer
PERM
Rollback
PERM
Template editor
PERM
Global rights policy
Volunteer Response Team
Advanced user groups
Administrator
RfA
Bureaucrat
RfB
CheckUser and Oversight
Request
Edit filter manager
Request
Interface administrator
Request
Founder
Importer
Researcher
Committees and related
Arbitration Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks
SPI clerks
ArbCom clerks
Governance
Administration
FAQ
Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation
Board
Founder's seat
Meta-Wiki
Proposals
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Policies_and_guidelines&oldid=1165616033"
Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia procedural policiesWikipedia policies and guidelinesWikipedia administrationHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia move-protected project pages
 This page was last edited on 16 July 2023, at 09:14 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width