History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire) Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)6,585 FollowersRecent papers in History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)Top PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleReview of Bielman Sánchez, Anne, Cogitore, Isabelle, Kolb, Anne (dir.): Femmes influentes dans le monde hellénistique et à Rome (IIIe siècle avant J.-C. – Ier siécle après J.- C., Grenoble: UGA Éditions, 2021 (= 2016), 260 pp., [ISBN: 978-84310-242-0].Save to LibraryDownloadby Gustavo Alberto Vivas García•  10  Roman History, Republican Rome, History of Women's Studies, Roman imperial historyMALLOS, ANTIOCHE DU PYRAME, MAGARSUS ET LE STADIASME DE LA GRANDE MER. Toponymie historique, aléas politiques et compilation d’un péripleSave to LibraryDownloadby Pascal ARNAUD•  8  Ancient Geography, Cilicia, Historical topography, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)Podcast #15: Der Sterbende Gallier - und wie er von Pergamon nach Rom gekommen isthttps://1lpmzl.podcaster.de/artefakte-erzaehlen/15-der-sterbende-gallier-und-wie-er-von-pergamon-nach-rom-gekommen-ist/Save to LibraryDownloadby Susanne Lamm•  15  Archaeology, Hellenistic Historiography, Pergamon, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)شناخت و آسیب شناسی ورود سکه های جعلی به موزه ها و مراکز پژوهشی.
Penetration of Faked Coins into Museums and Collections; Identification and Losses Detection.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mostafa Dehpahlavan and +1Zahra  Alinezhad•  6  Seleucid Empire, Coins finds as archaeological artefacts, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire), Ancient CoinsSeleukidiSave to LibraryDownloadby Dino  Proha•  4  Seleucid Empire, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire), Ancient middle east, Seleucid ArmyMontesanti, A. 2011. Alessandro Magno. La storia, il viaggio del’ultimo eroe. Roma: GBEditoriAAbile stratega, condottiero e potente sovrano, Alessandro Magno di Macedonia, eroe che percepiva se stesso alla stregua di un nuovo Eracle o di un nuovo Achille, fu, prima di tutto, un “viaggiatore”. E chi si approcci alle pagine del... moreAbile stratega, condottiero e potente sovrano, Alessandro Magno di Macedonia, eroe che percepiva se stesso alla stregua di un nuovo Eracle o di un nuovo Achille, fu, prima di tutto, un “viaggiatore”. E chi si approcci alle pagine del presente lavoro, nel quale viene ripercorsa l’intera vicenda del grande macedone ,si prepari, di fatto, a compiere un lungo e affascinante viaggio...Un’esplorazione attraverso quei luoghi in cui l’uomo Alessandro compì il luminoso percorso che lo avrebbe portato a divenire mito; aspirando costantemente, come racconta la storica Lynette Mitchell nella prefazione al libro,“...a divenire il più grande tra tutti gli eroi...”.Con pieno rigore storico, e senza concessioni alla fabula, a farla da padrone, in un racconto sostenuto da una poderosa mole bibliografica, sono i fatti “così come si svolsero”. Fatti la cui rievocazione, spogliata di facili orpelli, saprà coinvolgere e trascinare ogni lettore dentro l’antica e immortale storia (o viaggio) dell’ultimo eroe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonio Montesanti•  21  Ancient History, Tactics (Military Science), Greek History, Hellenistic HistoryPoteri ereditari o sacralizzati nelle monarchie ellenistiche, in F. De Luise (a cura di), Legittimazione del potere, autorità della legge: un dibattito antico, Trento 2016, pp. 199-222.Save to LibraryDownloadby Federicomaria Muccioli•  4  Hellenistic History, Ancient Greek History, Hellenistic and Roman Asia Minor, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)Third Circular of the Unguentarium Symposium, May 17-18, 2018, Izmir, TurkeyDear Colleague, We would like to thank you very sincerely for your presentation at the international symposium, entitled “Unguentarium. A terracotta vessel form and other related vessels in the Hellenistic, Roman and early Byzantine... moreDear Colleague,We would like to thank you very sincerely for your presentation at the international symposium, entitled “Unguentarium. A terracotta vessel form and other related vessels in the Hellenistic, Roman and early Byzantine Mediterranean in Izmir, Turkey”. Between May 17 and 18, 2018 we have hosted c. 50 participants from 15 countries and 34 papers dealing with terracotta unguentaria were presented in these two days of symposium. We ask you to send us your paper, if it deals with terracotta unguentaria. The Editorial Board asks you kindly to provide an original, previously unpublished and scientific paper, dealing with unpublished materials from excavated or surveyed sites or from the museums with previously unpublished photos without copyright problems.Save to LibraryDownloadby The Lydia  Symposium•  39  Religion, Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, ClassicsThe Rivalry of Rome and Parthia in the Sources from the Augustan Age to Late Antiquity (Anabasis 7, 2016)Abstract This article examines the longstanding rivalry of Rome and Parthia, which began as an unintended consequence of Crassus’ decisive defeat at Carrhae in 53 BCE. It synthesizes the accounts and opinions of numerous Graeco-Roman... moreAbstractThis article examines the longstanding rivalry of Rome and Parthia, which began as an unintended consequence of Crassus’ decisive defeat at Carrhae in 53 BCE. It synthesizes the accounts and opinions of numerous Graeco-Roman writers from the Augustan Age to late antiquity in order to help illustrate the new and interconnected post-Carrhae world and its legacy. The rivalry of the Romans and Parthians became a primary focus of their foreign policies and drastically expanded their perceptions of the world in which they interacted. Even after the fall of the Parthians to the rebellious Sassanid Persians in the 220s CE, the Romans continued to find their three-century-long rivalry with the Parthians of interest and relevant to the changing world of late antiquity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaus L Overtoom•  290  History, Ancient History, European History, Military HistoryA Statue of the mušḫuššu of Marduk at Babylon?, in M. Cammarosano,  E. Devecchi and M. Viano (eds), talugaeš witteš. Ancient Near Eastern Studies  Presented to Stefano de Martino on the Occasion of his 65th Birthday, Münster 2020, pp. 331-344. ISBN 978-3-96327-110-6This paper deals with the possibility of retracing the monumental setting of ancient contexts now lost and not documented directly by the study of indirect sources that describe them, literally or visually. The assumption is that... moreThis paper deals with the possibility of retracing the monumental setting of ancient contexts now lost and not documented directly by the study of indirect sources that describe them, literally or visually. The assumption is that monuments that did not come down to the present day can nonetheless be studied and contextualized thanks to what is echoed in literary or epigraphic sources and to their depiction in other media.Here, the possibility that one or more now-lost statues representing the mušḫuššu, the serpo-dragon of Marduk, were erected at Babylon at least since the Late Babylonian period is discussed on the basis of both epigraphic and iconographic evidence.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vito Messina•  20  Religion, Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, Near Eastern StudiesCurtius Rufus, the Macedonian Mutiny at Opis and Alexander's Iranian Policy in 324 BCSave to LibraryDownloadby Marek Jan Olbrycht•  5  Hellenistic History, Iranian History, Alexander the Great, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)The Antikythera Shipwreck: The Ship, the Treasures, the Mechanism, Exhibition Catalogue, National Archaeological Museum, Athens 2012Exhibition Catalogue, National Archaeological Museum, April 2012 – April 2013Save to LibraryDownloadby Elena Vlachogianni•  43  Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Maritime Archaeology, Greek HistoryArsacid Dynastic MarriagesDynastic marriages in the Hellenistic world were an important diplomatic tool that provided distinct political benefi ts to one or both of the parties involved. The Parthian rulers from the Arsacid dynasty also engaged in such unions... moreDynastic marriages in the Hellenistic world were an important diplomatic tool that provided distinct political benefi ts to one or both of the parties involved. The Parthian rulers from the Arsacid dynasty also engaged in such unions with other ruling houses. Surviving sources contain information on such marriages with the members of the Seleucid family, the Artaxiad dynasty, which ruled in Armenia, but also ruling houses in Commagene and Media Atropatene. Not all of these links resulted from a bilateral agreement, however; some were the result of imposition of the Arsacids’ will. The author attempts to demonstrate the circumstances in which each of the known dynastic marriages of the rulers of Parthia came about, as well as the objectives they hoped toachieve as a result.Save to LibraryDownloadby Edward Dabrowa•  5  Armenian History, Seleucid Empire, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire), Parthian EmpireConsidering the Failure of the Parthians Against the Invasions of the Central Asian Tribal Confederations in the 120s BCE (Studia Iranica 48, 2019, pp. 77-111)When the Parthians rebelled against the Seleucid Empire in the middle third century BCE, seizing a large section of northeastern Iran, they inherited the challenging responsibility of monitoring the extensive frontier between the Iranian... moreWhen the Parthians rebelled against the Seleucid Empire in the middle third century BCE, seizing a large section of northeastern Iran, they inherited the challenging responsibility of monitoring the extensive frontier between the Iranian plateau and the Central Asian steppe. Although initially able to maintain working relations with various tribal confederations in the region, with the final collapse of the Bactrian kingdom in the 1305 BCE, the ever-widening eastern frontier of the Parthian state became increasingly unstable, and in the 1205 BCE nomadic warriors devastated the vulnerable eastern territories of the Parthian state, temporarily eliminating Parthian control of the Iranian plateau. This article is a consideration of the failures of the Parthians to meet and overcome the obstacles they faced along their eastern frontier in the 120s BCE and a reevaluation of the causes and consequences of the events. It concludes that western distractions and the mismanagement of eastern affairs by the Arsacids turned a minor dispute into one of the most costly and difficult struggles in Parthian history.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaus L Overtoom•  20  Ancient History, Classics, Middle East Studies, Central Asian StudiesΨηφιακό Μουσείο "Μέγας Αλέξανδρος από τις Αιγές στην Οικουμένη" Συνέντευξη στην Πόλυ ΚρημνιώτηΔSave to LibraryDownloadby Angeliki  Kottaridi•  3  Classical Archaeology, Digital Humanities, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)The Parthians The Forgotten EmpireThis volume provides a comprehensive overview of the history and culture of the Parthian Empire, which existed for almost 500 years from 247 BC to 224 AD. The Parthians were Rome's great opponents in the east, but comparatively little is... moreThis volume provides a comprehensive overview of the history and culture of the Parthian Empire, which existed for almost 500 years from 247 BC to 224 AD. The Parthians were Rome's great opponents in the east, but comparatively little is known about them. The Parthians focuses on the rise, expansion, flowering and decline of the Parthian Empire and covers both the wars with the Romans in the west and the nomads in the east. Sources include the small amount from the Empire itself, as well as those from outside the Parthian world, such as Greek, Roman and Chinese documents.FOR  DETAILED  TABLE OF  CONTENTS and FOREWORD please open --> downloadSave to LibraryDownloadby Uwe  Ellerbrock•  13  Roman History, Zoroastrianism, Hellenistic and Roman Asia Minor, Seleucid Empire( 2011)  From Pella to Gandhara: Hybridisation and Identity in the Art and Architecture of the Hellenistic EastSave to LibraryDownloadby Anna Kouremenos•  19  History, Ancient History, Archaeology, Near Eastern ArchaeologyThe Roman Army and Its Conquest of the Greek East (Chapter Three - Contesting the Greatness of Alexander the Great)Chapter III (55) How Roman Arms Came to Conquer the Successors of Alexander (55) How Much More Successful Was the Roman Legion than the Macedonian Phalanx? (57) The Best Soldiers versus the Best Formation (59) Why the Greeks... moreChapter III(55) How Roman Arms Came to Conquer the Successors of Alexander(55) How Much More Successful Was the Roman Legion than the Macedonian Phalanx? (57) The Best Soldiers versus the Best Formation(59) Why the Greeks Were Shocked after Rome’s Domination of Macedon(60) Final Thoughts on the Impact of Alexander on Polybius’ Work(63)Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaus L Overtoom•  94  History, Ancient History, European History, Military HistoryTEMİZKAN, Meltem, “Seleukoslar Döneminden Dördüz Kent İdari Yapılanmasına Bir Örnek: “Seleukos Tetrapolisi”, OANNES – Uluslararası Eskiçağ Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi, 3/1, Mart 2021, ss. 109 – 125.Save to LibraryDownloadby OANNES International Journal of Ancient History•  7  Ancient History, Hellenistic History, Ancient Near East, HellenismArts of the Hellenized East (editor)A fully illustrated catalogue of ancient silver vessels and gems, dating to the centuries following Alexander the Great's conquest of Iran and Bactria up to the pre-Islamic era, from The al-Sabah Collection, Kuwait. By Martha L. Carter... moreA fully illustrated catalogue of ancient silver vessels and gems, dating to the centuries following Alexander the Great's conquest of Iran and Bactria up to the pre-Islamic era, from The al-Sabah Collection, Kuwait. By Martha L. Carter with contributions from Prudence O. Harper and Pieter Meyers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deborah  Freeman Fahid•  15  Hellenistic History, Hellenistic Bactria, Hellenism, Hellenistic and Roman Asia MinorWho was with Antiochos III at Raphia? Revisiting the Hieroglyphic Versions of the Raphia Decree (CG 31008 and 50048)The Raphia Decree of Ptolemy IV Philometor is best preserved in multiple Demotic redactions, but two fragmentary copies of the hieroglyphic portion have also survived. Both stelae were published long ago by Kamal and Gauthier (Cairo, CG... moreThe Raphia Decree of Ptolemy IV Philometor is best preserved in multiple Demotic redactions, but two fragmentary copies of the hieroglyphic portion have also survived.  Both stelae were published long ago by Kamal and Gauthier (Cairo, CG 31008 and 50048), yet lacunae and other uncertainties plague the first editions. Through collation of the hieroglyphic texts, comparison to the corresponding Demotic redaction and other trilingual decrees, several troublesome passages are clarified.   In one section, the divinities of Egypt speak to Ptolemy IV in an oracular dream, their message reported using direct speech.  Elsewhere, the text notes that Antiochus III was accompanied at Raphia by his wife, the distinguished stateswoman Laodike III, yet another example of a Hellenistic queen going to battle.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Klotz•  4  Ptolemaic Egyptian History, Ptolemaic (Egyptology), Seleucid Empire, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)Feeding Hellenistic Seleucia on the Tigris and BabylonAn estimate is made of the capacity of the hinterland of Seleucia on the Tigris and Babylon to feed their inhabitants. The estimate is made on the basis of archaeological surveys, data concerning the Babylonian yields, the size of the... moreAn estimate is made of the capacity of the hinterland of Seleucia on the Tigris and Babylon to feed their inhabitants. The estimate is made on the basis of archaeological surveys, data concerning the Babylonian yields, the size of the cities and irrigated area, data concerning famines. The conclusion is that Seleucia and Babylon could be fed by their own hinterlands even if we accept the highest figures for the population of Seleucia (600,000).Save to LibraryDownloadby R.J. (Bert) van der Spek•  33  Ancient History, Economic History, Archaeology, ClassicsComparing the Ptolemaic and Seleucid Empires. The Role of Local Elites and Populations. Conference in Freiburg-im-Breisgau, June 30-July 2, 2016The Ptolemaic and Seleucid empires are usually studied separately, or otherwise included into broader studies of the Hellenistic World. The present conference proposes a more systematic comparison of the roles of local elites and local... moreThe Ptolemaic and Seleucid empires are usually studied separately, or otherwise included into broader studies of the Hellenistic World. The present conference proposes a more systematic comparison of the roles of local elites and local populations in the construction, negotiation, and adaptation of political, economic, military and ideological power of these multi-ethnic empires. They are sufficiently similar to make comparisons valid, while in the process of comparing them differences should become more sali- ent and better explained. Regions that were successively included in the Ptolemaic and then Seleucid empires deserve particular attention, but can only be understood within a broader picture of the ruling strategies of both empires.The papers are organized along three main lines of research for examining the role and the level of integration of the local populations. The first line explores forms of communication as can be observed from coins, inscriptions and visual culture. The second explores the effects of settlement policies on the relationship between rulers, immigrants and local populations. The third assesses how local priestly elites collaborated with and resisted against the new ruling classes and immigrant populations. All three lines will shed different light on the development of communication, monarchic ideology, royal and dynastic cult, as well as on the mediation between competing ruling coalitions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christelle  Fischer-Bovet and +1Sitta von Reden•  9  Ancient Egyptian Religion, Ancient History, Ancient Near East, Ptolemaic Egyptian HistoryKings and Usurpers in the Seleukid Empire: The Men who would be King. Oxford: OUP 2016.Kings and Usurpers in the Seleukid Empire: The Men who would be King focuses on ideas of kingship and power in the Seleukid empire, the largest of the successor states of Alexander the Great. Exploring the question of how a man becomes a... moreKings and Usurpers in the Seleukid Empire: The Men who would be King focuses on ideas of kingship and power in the Seleukid empire, the largest of the successor states of Alexander the Great. Exploring the question of how a man becomes a king, it specifically examines the role of usurpers in this particular kingdom--those who attempted to become king, and who were labelled as rebels by ancient authors after their demise--by placing these individuals in their appropriate historical contexts through careful analysis of the literary, numismatic, and epigraphic material.Save to LibraryDownloadby Boris Chrubasik•  7  Ancient History, Classics, Hellenistic History, Ancient Greek HistoryRoyal Correspondence in the Hellenistic Period. A Study in Greek Epigraphy.The letters of the kingss of the Hellenistic period are interesting for their content and for their language. In both fields they are primary historical sources. They show the Hellenistic states as they actually functioned, their... moreThe letters of the kingss of the Hellenistic period are interesting fortheir content and for their language. In both fields they are primaryhistorical sources. They show the Hellenistic states as they actuallyfunctioned, their administrative and diplomatic dealings wim subjectsand with officials and occasionally with neighbors. They are not theproducts of historians writing for posterity and interested according totheir bent in suppressing either the favorable or the unfavorable aspectsof their subject. Their authors were the principals themselves, concernedof course with presenting thieir actions in a favorable  light but occupiedonly with the execution of a particular design. They deal with detailsand they are avowedly biased, but their bias cannot extend to obscurationof the transaction. By showing the administration of details, theymake it possible to see behind the generalities of political historians andto form a conception of the Hvins conditions wimin the Greco-orientalkingdoms of the heirs of Alexander.Save to LibraryDownloadby L'ERMA di BRETSCHNEIDER, Publisher•  17  Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Classics, Hellenistic HistoryThe strengths and weaknesses of the Seleucid EmpireThis paper argues that the very factors that were responsible for the rise to power of the Seleucid Empire also ultimately brought about its downfall.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zenia Duell•  3  Seleucid Empire, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire), SeleucusDespués de Alejandro el Grande. El desarrollo de las tácticas bélicas griegas en el Imperio seléucida (After Alexander the Great. Development of Greek military tactics in Seleucid Empire)After the death of Alexander III of Macedon, the Seleucid Empire emerged as one of the most powerful Hellenistic kingdoms of Asia. His huge territorial extension and the various peoples who came under their control necessitated the... moreAfter the death of Alexander III of Macedon, the Seleucid Empire emerged as one of the most powerful Hellenistic kingdoms of Asia. His huge territorial extension and the various peoples who came under their control necessitated the creation of a mighty army that would ensure their control and help protectit from its enemies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Arturo S. Sanz•  170  Religion, History, Ancient History, Cultural HistoryMacedonia and Persia in: Blackwell Companion to Ancient Macedonia, Joseph Roisman and Ian Worthington (editors), Malden: Blackwell 2010, 342-369An assessment of Alexander’s policies toward Iranians and generally Asians run a full gamut. To some he remains a ruthless conqueror with little understanding for the traditions of the peoples he conquered, whereas others see him as a... moreAn assessment of Alexander’s policies toward Iranians and generally Asians run a full gamut. To some he remains a ruthless conqueror with little understanding for the traditions of the peoples he conquered, whereas others see him as a conscious successor of the Achaemenids. Neither position addresses the heart of the matter. A biased picture of Alexander as a limited, brutal invader is contradicted by sources. While it is true that he was mainly a leader and conqueror, in many situations – chiefly from 330 – he attempted coalition-based solutions that he attained through diplomatic means. Nor was his political program limited simply to succeeding the Achaemenids. He did not rise to the throne of Cyrus, did not use the title ‘king of kings’ (so explicitly Plut., Demosthenes 25.3), did not take a dynastic name, and never announced himself successor of Darius III. Instead, he titled himself as ‘king of Asia’. From 330 he was busy creating his own imperial concept that was neither strictly Achaemenid or solely Macedonian: it was an amalgam of Iranian, including Achaemenid, elements with Macedonian notions. Alexander’s Asian policies should be seen as two distinct areas: local and imperial. In respective lands Alexander fell back on local traditions as was the case in Lydia, Egypt and Babylonia. That said, such traditions had no bearing on the imperial sphere.In building his empire, Alexander followed the Achaemenid model, Iranian traditions, and an elite composed not only of Macedonians but also Iranians. Alexander’s new concept was proclaimed in eastern Iran shortly after Darius III’s death and first applied to Iranians in that region, later to embrace the Bactrians andSogdians. Eventually, it was extended to all Iranian peoples. Neither the place nor the time for a proclamation of a new policy was chosen at random. Eastern Iran and Central Asia loomed as a powerful and menacing challenge, but it was there that hebegan laying foundations for his empire. The area’s demographic and military potential (confirmed in no uncertain terms at Gaugamela) was immense, and Alexander was too good a leader and too shrewd a politician not to appreciate that aspect. He consciously styled himself as an Iranian ruler rather than just a Persian one; his court and ceremony reforms and the colonization he initiated were not in Persis but in northeasternIran (Parthia). The years 331–330 marked the end of the old order in Asia and Europe, and matters to do with Greece or even his native Macedonia must have seemed peripheral to Alexander.One cannot help noticing in Alexander’s Iranian policy a component of admiration.The Iranian world must have fascinated him, as it had politicians and commanders of the stature of Themistocles, Pausanias, or Alcibiades in the fifth century. It seemscertain too that Alexander, as a commander and a man thoroughly familiar with things military, had much respect for the prowess and aristocratic ethos of the Iranians. Some Iranian customs had their equivalents in Macedonian tradition, including appreciationof the ruler’s military valor. Persia had exerted influence on the institutional development of Philip II’s monarchy; similar influences on Macedonia are visible  under his predecessors beginning with Amyntas I and Alexander I. Now Alexander the Greatwas in the heart of the Achaemenid Empire and interaction with the refined civilization  of Iran favored borrowing from its rich heritage. This fact should be given due recognition that the ambitious Alexander, ever eager to search for new forms of monarchy – forms reaching beyond the Macedonian tradition,where the king’s role was quite limited – had discovered in royal Persian traditions those elements that best suited his need to build and strengthen the new empire. Alexander’s idea was for an empire that would be organized to a large extent along Achaemenid lines: their state was the only model of a multinational monarchy familiar, and in many ways one deserving admiration for Alexander to fall back on.In contemporary research, Alexander’s pro-Iranian policies are often viewed as merely ‘pragmatic’.89 Nonetheless, claims for narrow pragmatism fall short of explaining many of Alexander’s fundamental and far-reaching moves such as his marriage toRoxane, the Iranian princess from Central Asia (it would have been more ‘pragmatic’ to place her at the court as a concubine) or the creation of an Iranian phalanx (epigonoi) to replace the existing Macedonian force. The complete dominance of Iranians inAlexander’s army in 324–323 is another move overstepping the boundaries of simple necessity. Failure to recognize the chief aims of Alexander’s policies in the Iranian world leads to false historical reconstructions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marek Jan Olbrycht•  12  Ancient History, Near Eastern Studies, Hellenistic History, Iranian StudiesBerossos between Tradition and InnovationArticle published in K. Radner / E. Robson (eds.): The Oxford Handbook of Cuneiform Culture. Oxford. 2011, pp. 637–657.Save to LibraryDownloadby Geert De Breucker•  3  Ancient History, Assyriology, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)"Βασίλισσες-ιέρειες-θεές: Από την Μακεδονία στην οικουμένη"The Iconography of Macedonian queens from Macedon (5th and 4th century B.C.) to the Hellenistic kingdoms. Roots, associations, developments, later tradition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Angeliki  Kottaridi•  17  Archaeology, Iconography, Art History, History of ReligionAlexander the Great at Susa (324 B.C.)Alexander the Great at Susa (324 B.C.) in: Cincia Bearzot, Franca Landucci (eds). ALEXANDER’S LEGACY. Atti del Convegno Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore Milano 2015, Roma: «L’Erma» di Bretschneider 2016, 61-72. ABSTRACT After his... moreAlexander the Great at Susa (324 B.C.)  in: Cincia Bearzot, Franca Landucci (eds). ALEXANDER’S LEGACY. Atti del Convegno Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore Milano 2015, Roma: «L’Erma» di Bretschneider 2016, 61-72. ABSTRACTAfter his return from India Alexander was faced with the need to reorganise his state. In some satrapies the governors and military commanders had taken advantage of the many years when he was away, busy on other fronts, and there had been atrocities, embezzlements, and rebellions. Alexander had to bring the building of his empire to completion and restructure his armed forces completely. These changes show very clearly the nature of his political programme in the period when he was continuing the pro-Iranian policy he had announced in Parthia/Khorasan in 330. The main decisions defining Alexander’s policy in 324 and 323 were made at Susa, and they will be the subject of this article. They have to be examined in the wider context of Alexander’s policy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marek Jan Olbrycht•  17  Near Eastern Archaeology, Hellenistic History, Iranian Archaeology, Iranian Studiesהרקע להשתלטות החשמונאית על הגליל (The Historical Background of the Hasmonean Occupation of the Galilee; in Hebrew)The Historical Background of the Hasmonean Occupation of the Galilee Uzi Leibner and Roi Sabar Institute of Archaeology, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem The time and nature of the Hasmonean takeover of the Galilee have been widely... moreThe Historical Background of the Hasmonean Occupation of the GalileeUzi Leibner and Roi SabarInstitute of Archaeology, The Hebrew University of JerusalemThe time and nature of the Hasmonean takeover of the Galilee have been widely debated. While at the end of the second century BCE at least part of the Galilee was clearly controlled by the Hasmoneans, existing sources do not tell us when and how this happened and the result is various and contradicting hypotheses.This paper presents the findings of an archaeological investigation of Hellenistic sites across the Lower Galilee, carried out by a team of the Hebrew University. The research included excavation of a key site called Khirbet el-‘Eika, in the Eastern Lower Galilee, and a survey of Hellenistic period sites between the Mediterranean coast and the Sea of Galilee. The material culture revealed at Khirbet el-‘Eika points to a probable pagan population with close ties to the Phoenician coast. The site came to a sudden end in a dramatic destruction and the rich assemblage of artifacts allow us to pinpoint this event to ca. 145/4 BCE. Furthermore, a synthesis of other published and unpublished excavations, as well as the results of our survey, point to an additional number of Galilean sites that were abandoned during these years, indicating a wider and hitherto unknown phenomenon. Some of these abandonments may be related to Jonathan the Maccabee’s campaign in the Galilee around this time, while he was operating as a strategos of Antiochus VI. Others, especially those in the vicinity of ‘Akko-Ptolemais, may have stemmed from clashes between other players in the Seleucid Empire who operated in the region, such as Alexander I Balas, who first battled Demetrius I and later Ptolemy VI. Whatever the reason, these abandonments undoubtedly facilitated the gradual Hasmonean gain of control of the Galilee in the years that followed,  and its resettlement by a Jewish population probably emigrating from Judea, since the region had been profoundly weakened by now and was only sparsely settled. Furthermore, new archaeological data seem to indicate that the Hasmonean annexation of the Galilee was not a singular event but was comprised of a few campaigns, and a continued progression of settlement, beginning perhaps as early as the days of Jonathan and ending in the days of Alexander Jannaeus.Save to LibraryDownloadby uzi leibner and +1Roi Sabar•  3  History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire), Galilee in early roman time, HasmoneansPHALANX VERSUS LEGION Analysis of the Greco-Roman conflict in the Hellenistic eraSave to LibraryDownloadby Stefanos  Skarmintzos•  13  Ancient History, Roman History, Ancient Greek History, Hellenistic and Roman Asia MinorLes Successeurs d’Alexandre en Asie Centrale et leur héritage culturel Save to LibraryDownloadby Academy of Institutions and Cultures  Society•  8  Central Asia (History), Alexander the Great, Ancient Greek History, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)Alexander’s campaign across the Hindu Kush: Genealogy and political history of his successors Save to LibraryDownloadby Academy of Institutions and Cultures  Society•  14  Archaeology, Hellenistic History, Political History, Alexander the GreatTalking of Eating and Food in Iron-Age BabyloniaSave to LibraryDownloadby Michael Jursa•  6  Assyriology, Food History, Ancient Near East, Ancient Near Eastern HistoryAn Admirer of Persian Ways: Alexander the Great's Reforms in Parthia-Hyrcania and the Iranian HeritageAlexander's adoption of Iranian regalia, garments, customs, and institutions was made in eastern Parthia in late summer or early fall 330. The reforms affected many fundamental questions of government as well as military. Possibly, they... moreAlexander's adoption of Iranian regalia, garments, customs, and institutions was made in eastern Parthia in late summer or early fall 330. The reforms affected many fundamental questions of government as well as military. Possibly, they had to do with Alexander's founding of his first colony in Iran, Alexandropolis (Plin. 6.113). The reforms in Parthia, followed by other novelties in Central Asia (328-327), in India (327-325), in Persis, at Susa, and at Opis (324), demonstrate that Alexander formulated a comprehensive program of pro-Iranian policy. Alexander deliberate-ly styled himself as an Iranian, not just Persian ruler; significantly he initiated his reforms of court and ceremonial, as well as his colonization, not in Persis, but in north-eastern Iran (Parthia). His pro-Iranian policy remained consistent until 323. Alexander's concept was proclaimed in eastern Iran and first applied to Iranians in that region, later to embrace Bactrians and Sogdians. Eventually, it was extended to all Iranian peoples on the Iranian Plateau and in Central Asia including Persians and MedesSave to LibraryDownloadby Marek Jan Olbrycht•  29  Near Eastern Archaeology, Hellenistic History, Iranian Archaeology, Iranian StudiesEl desfile de Dafne. Ritual y exaltación en el Imperio seléucida (The Daphne parade. Ritual and exaltation in Seleucid Empire).Throughout history, the Seleucid military might demonstrated many times its importance for the maintenance, expansion and defense of the Empire. Rarely the Seleucid army was defeated in a campaign and it happened in front of the almighty... moreThroughout history, the Seleucid military might demonstratedmany times its importance for the maintenance, expansion and defense of the Empire. Rarely the Seleucid army was defeated in a campaign and it happened in front of the almighty Rome. After the defeat at Thermopylae and Magnesia, and following the imminent withdrawal must conquer the Ptolemaic Empire, the new king Antiochus IV Epiphanes held a military parade as never been done before, its real purpose is unknown, but the Seleucids showed the world the power that still had the Empire. Through the stories of several classic sources, we can come closer to this event and whatit could entail.Save to LibraryDownloadby Arturo S. Sanz•  220  Religion, History, Ancient History, SociologyThe Hellenistic Near East‘The Hellenistic Near East,’ in: W. Scheidel, I. Morris, R. Saller eds., The Cambridge Economic History of the Greco-Roman World (Cambridge 2007) 409-433.Save to LibraryDownloadby R.J. (Bert) van der Spek•  25  History, Ancient History, Economic History, Archaeology نشوء الدولة السلوقية 312-64 ق.م  (The Foundation of Seleucid State and Its Establishment  {Historical Study 312-64 B.C.} (in Arabic ).The research revolves around the history of Seleucid State 312-64 B.C. form foundation and rising then fall. It is an interesting subject, for the position that this state has occupied in the ancient history. It took this position form... moreThe research revolves around the history of Seleucid State 312-64 B.C. form foundation and rising then fall. It is an interesting subject, for the position that this state has occupied in the ancient history. It took this position form hits great role in controlling over part of the Macedonian Empire, especially the vital and important areas in the old world, such as Mesopotamia, Syria, Palestine and Asia Minor. The importance comes from the role of its kings in spreading cities and Greek civilization on the borders of the Empire. They also encouraged the immigration of Greek settlers to live in the East. That had led to the emergence of the Eastern civilization with the Greek civilization. They are regarded as the real successors of Alexander the Great. They continued and followed his steps. The founder Seleucus I (312-281 B.C.) had taken Mesopotamia as the basis for his widespread Empire that stretched from the borders of India to the east up to Tricia to the west. These works were shown in the study up the down fall in 64 A.C.The study was divided into five chapters preceded by a preface in which we shown the appearance of the kingdom of Macedonia in the west and the proceed of Alexander the Great to invade the East as well as the most important battles. Then we mentioned the conference of Babylon 323 B.C. and the division of states among the successors and leaders of Alexander. The first chapter tackles the foundation of the Seleucid  state and the difficulties that had faced the founder as well as the most important until state. The second chapter tackled the status of the Seleucid  state after the death of the founders Seleucus III i.e. 281-233 B.C. these years were characterized by losing some territories of the state. The third chapter tackles the epoch of King Antiochus III, who is regarded as the most known Seleucid  king. He was even called the “the Great” due to the great works and victories he has conducted. The fourth chapter tackles in details the Seleucid  struggle in the epoch of that king (from 192 to 187 B.A.). these years are regarded as the beginning of the end for the Seleucid  state. They lost their territory in Asia Minor and Europe forever. They posed harsh conditions in Apama Convention in 188 B.A. The fifth chapter shows in detailed the situations of Seleucid  state during the epoch of king Seleucus IV until the fall in 187-64 B.A. it is the weakness, civil wars and troubles. It witnessed the external interventions by Rome and Ptolemaist, and the raise of Jews and Arabs (Anbaat) Parthes and the independence.  The study comes up with the number of outcomes such as:1.King Seleucus I is regarded as the real founder of the state who is described by wisdom and skill. He obtained the support of Leader Ptolemaios I and the return to Babel and the foundation of the state there. The main favor belongs to the people of Mesopotamia who supported the king who took Babel as a staring point in foundation of the Empire. Also, the Battle of Ipsos (301 B.A.) is regarded as a decisive battle in the state   He managed to overcome his opponents King Antiochus. 2. King Antiochus III is considered as the fixer of the Seleucid  Macedonian Expire. He managed to regain the territories lost during the reign of weak kings who preceded him after the first king Seleucus I. he even joint the regions of south Syria and Palestine. However, the king is defected in his rashness and recklessness in his final days. He was clashed with the new power in Rome which had put an den to his dreams during Thermopylae and Magnesia, which lost Asia Minor and Thrace in Europe. 3. The fall of the Seleucid State in (64 B.A.) comes a s result of external factors such as the invention of Rome, Egypt, Pergamum in the internal affairs. In addition to the long wars that had taken place between the state and kingdom of  Ptolemaist known as the “Syrian Wars”. The internal factors included the civil wars among the Seleucid  kings on throne. That had led to the depletion of the financial resources of the state and the deterioration of the economical situation. In addition to the attainment of weak kings some of whom were not Seleucid. That have paved the way for the appearance of the Macabi Jews and the Anbaat’t Arabs as a power, which had a great role in weakening the Seleucid State and to the final fall. The Seleucids are defected in not caring for the Upper Eastern Regions. That led to the decrease of support and consequently the separation of these regions one after the other.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hasan H . Al-Birmani•  2  Seleucid Empire, History of the Hellenistic World (Focus: Seleucid Empire)The Hellenistic Origins of Jewish Ritual ImmersionThe present study explores the origins of Jewish ritual immersion – inquiring when immersion first appeared as a rite of purification and what the reasons may have been for this development specifically at this time. Textual and... moreThe present study explores the origins of Jewish ritual immersion – inquiring when immersion first appeared as a rite of purification and what the reasons may have been for this development specifically at this time. Textual and archaeological evidence suggest that immersion emerged at some point during – or perhaps slightly prior to – the first half of the first century B.C.E. It is suggested here that the practice grew out of contemporary bathing practices involving the Hellenistic hip bath. Through a process of ritualization, full-body immersion emerged as a method of purificatory washing clearly differentiated from profane bathing. By way of a subsequent process of 'hyper-ritualization', some ventured further to distinguish purificatory ablutions from profane bathing by restricting use of 'drawn water' for purification and by assigning impurity to anyone who bathed in such water. Before us is an enlightening example of one of the many ways wherein Jewish religious practices evolved and adapted in response to Hellenistic cultural innovations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yonatan Adler•  116  Religion, Ancient History, Archaeology, Near Eastern ArchaeologyBar Hebraeus' Chronography Translated from Syriac by E. A. Wallis Budge (London, 1932) (First Time Ever Translated in English In 2009 but before this copy I present to you here was not available online until now !!!For a period of eighty years none of our people have given any thought to this object, and to the doings of this none of our people has devoted himself thereto (that is to say, from the time of the blessed old man MICHAEL, the deceased... moreFor a period of eighty years none of our people have given any thought to this object, and to the doings of this none of our people has devoted himself thereto (that is to say, from the time of the blessed old man MICHAEL, the deceased Patriarch, who compiled that great threefold historical chronography), and to the [information] afforded by the old and antiquated historical chronographies of EUSEBIUS, I mean him of CAESAREA, and SOCRATES, the scholastic, and ZACHARIAH, the rhetorician, and JOHN of ASIA, and DIONYSIUS of TALL MAHRE, together with what he himself quickened. It hath [2] seemed to me that a similar breach and a gap which inviteth [filling] existeth in respect of us and our people, and that the famous events in the affairs of the world, and also in those of the Church which have happened in the period which precedeth us which will fall into oblivion and be no longer found in our own times after the lapse of much time will be sought for. Therefore, according to what time hath brought I, having entered the Library of the city of MARAGHAH of 'ADHORBIJAN, have loaded up this my little book with narratives which are worthy of remembrance from many volumes of the SYRIANS, SARACENS (ARABS), and PERSIANS which are [preserved] here. And those which concern the government of the world I have set in order from the Patriarchs, the first of whom was ADAM, and from them I proceed to the JUDGES of the HEBREWS,then to their kings, then to the CHALDEANS, then to the MEDES, then to the PERSIANS, then to the pagan GREEKS, then to the RHOMAYE (i.e. BYZANTINES), then to the Christian GREEKS, then to the ARABS, and then conclude with the HUNS who [live] in our own days, order after order. And these I have committed to the First Part of the CHRONOGRAPHY. In the matter of ecclesiastical affairs I have begun with AARON, the first high priest, and as I end, to those who stand at the head today in the Second Part of the Ecclesiastical History. This last I have sealed in two discourses; the first treateth of the Western high-priesthood which is of ANTIOCH, and the second treateth of our own Eastern high-priesthood. The Book of the Chronicle of the Generations [of Kings] WE, invoking the help of the Holy Trinity, Father, and Son, and Holy Spirit, One veritable God, begin to write the 'Book of the Chronicle of the Generations [of Kings]' which was composed by MAR GREGORY , the Maphrian, the Light of the East and of the West, who is ABU'L-FARAJ, the son of AARON, the physician, who [came] from the city of MELITENE, who is commonly called 'BAR 'EBHRAYA' (i.e. 'the son of the Hebrew').  Firstly. The Preface GOD, help my feebleness! Blessed be Thou, Lord, and Lord of the Universe, the BEGINNING and the END; Thou art the First, and Thou art the Last. W ith Thee every course of action is prepared, and unto Thee all praise is rightfully due; And to the Son, the Word, the strength of Thy wisdom, And to the Holy Spirit, the Life of Thy Being, From everlasting, and now , and for ever. And as this our rational being was created so that it might know righteousness, so that it might glorify it, and goodness that it might find it; and as knowledge in the first place becometh rich through thoughts of a theoretical nature, and it in the second place profiteth through practical (i.e, actual) hearings, the calling to remembrance of the things, both good and bad, which have happened in each and every generation conferreth no small benefit on all those who care greatly to acquire what is good, and who take pains to hate what is bad, and it urgeth a man to demonstrate pointedly the things which are excellent related thereby, and inciteth him to reject the disgraceful happenings which it narrateth. CONTENTS The Patriarchs from Adam to Moses. I. The Judges from Joshua to Samuel. II. The Kings of the Hebrews. III. The Chaldean (Babylonian) Kings. IV . The Kings of the Medes. V . The Kings of the Persians. VI. The First Kingdom of the Greeks. VII. The Roman Emperors. VIII. The Second Kingdom of the Greeks. IX. The Kings of the Arabs. X. The Kingdom of the Saljuks in Persia. The History of the Crusades. The Taking of Edessa from the Franks. The Kingdom of the Mughlaye (Mongols), who are the Tataraye (Tartars). The Sons of Chingiz Khan. The Laws of Chingiz Khan. How the Mongols Cleaved to the Worship of Images. The Cause of the Enmity between the Mongols and the Persians. The Capture of Constantinople by the Franks. The Capture of Samarkand by the Tatars. The Capture of Khawarazm the Tatars. The Murder of Amin ad-Dawlah Taoma. The Death of Chingiz Khan. The Enthronment of a Mongol Khan [Ogedei]. The Kingdom of Badr ad-Din Lulu. The Enthronement of Ghoyuk [Guyuk] Khan The Enthronement of Munga [Mongke] Khan The Capture of Baghdad The Kings of the Huns. XI.  The Enthronement of Kublai [Qubilai] Khan. 'Abaka [Abagha/Abaqa], the Successor of Hulabu (Hulegu). The Capture of Antioch. T akudar [Teguder] 'Ahmad Ar ghon [Arghun], the Son of 'Abaka [Abagha/Abaqa]. The Murder of Shams ad-Din. Kanjatu [Geikhatu], the Brother of 'Arghon. [The history of the last ten years in the Chronography was not written by Bar Hebraeus, who died in 1286; the writer was probably his brother, Bar Sawma Safi.]  The pagination of the present edition is that of Paul Bedjan's Syriac text, which Budge indicates in brackets within his English translation. Other Syriac and English , Arabic , Greek works listed below I myself can obtain if you message me !Table of Contents1. The Life of Adam and Eve (Apocalypse of Moses) (Arabic)2. The Testament of Adam (Syriac and Arabic)3. The Cave of Treasures (Syriac and Arabic)4. The Conflict of Adam and Eve with Satan (Arabic)5. ​The Book of Adam (Codex Nazaraeus; Mandean Fragment) (Syriac)6. Life of Abel, by Symmachus (Syriac)7. Syriac Book of Seth (Syriac)8. 1 Enoch (Syriac)9. Apocalypse of Enoch (Syriac)10. Tractate of Shem (Syriac)11. The Testament of Abraham (On the Death of Abraham) (Arabic)12. History of Melchizedek (Syriac and Arabic)13. Joseph and Asenath (Recension Two) (Syriac)14. History of Joseph (Syriac)15. History of Joseph, Son of Jacob [Version A] (Arabic)16. History of Joseph, Son of Jacob [Version B] (Arabic)17. History of Joseph (Arabic)18. Dormition of Joseph, the Son of Jacob (Arabic)19. Testament of the Twelve Patriarchs (Syriac) 20. The Names of the Wives of the Patriarchs (Syriac)21. The Conversation of Moses with God (Syriac and Arabic)22. The Book of Jubilees (Syriac)23. The Life of Moses (Arabic) 24. Instruction of David to Solomon (Arabic)25. The Palace of Solomon (Arabic)26. Questions of the Queen of Sheba to Solomon (Syriac)27. Testament of Solomon to Rehoboam his son (Arabic)28. The Final Counsel of Solomon (Arabic)29. The Death of Solomon (Arabic)30. Aphikia (2 Recensions) (Arabic)31. History of the Rechabites (Syriac and Arabic)32. History of the Prophet Elijah (Arabic)33. ​History of the Prophet Elijah and the son of the Widow (Arabic)34. ​​History of the Prophet Elijah and his Ascension (Arabic)35. ​​Sermon of Elisha the Prophet on Sinners (Arabic)36. ​​​Sermon of the Prophet Elisha on the necessity of purification (Arabic)37. ​​​Prayer of Manasseh (Syriac and Arabic)38. ​​​Prayer of Manasseh (Cited from the Apostolic Constitutions) (Syriac and Arabic)​​​​39. Prayer of Manasseh (from the Byzantine Horologion) (Christian Palestinian Aramaic and Syriac)​​​40. ​4 Esdras (The Apocalypse of Ezra) (Syriac and Arabic)41. ​​​​​The Apocalypse of Ezra on the reign of the Arabs (Syriac)42. ​History and Wisdom of Ahiqar (Syriac and Arabic)43. ​​5 Maccabees (Syriac)44. ​​History of St. Shamuni (Arabic)45. ​​Syriac Apocryphal Psalms (Syriac)46. ​​Odes of Solomon (Syriac)47. ​​History of Job (Arabic)​48. ​Psalms of Solomon (Syriac)49. ​​The Lives of the Prophets (Syriac and Arabic)50. ​​The History of Jonah (Syriac and Arabic)51. ​​Habakkuk Apocryphon (Arabic)​​52. History of Isaiah the Prophet (Arabic)​​53. Apocryphon of Jeremiah on the Captivity of Babylon (Arabic)​54. Syriac Apocalypse of Baruch (2 Baruch) (Syriac and Arabic)55. Epistle of Baruch (Syriac)​​56. Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius (Syriac and Arabic)​​​57. On our Lord and on the end written by the youth Daniel (Syriac)​​58. ​ Fourteenth Vision of Daniel (Arabic)​​​59. Apocalypse of Daniel (Arabic)60. On Daniel and the boy Caleb (Arabic)61. Conversation of Joseph and Nebuchadnezzar (Arabic)​​​​62. The Tiburtine Sibyl (Syriac and Arabic)Save to LibraryDownloadby ALexander T H E L I B R A R Y Cat (New Alexandria library of Texas•  20  History, Hebrew Bible, World History, History of the Islamic WorldGreco-Macedonian influences in the manipular Legion systemSince ancient times the Roman military system of the late third and second centuries BC as described by Polybius was considered a vastly different evolution, almost a revolutionary departure from the hoplite battle practice and defi... moreSince ancient times the Roman military system of the late third and second centuries BC as described by Polybius was considered a vastly different evolution, almost a revolutionary departure from the hoplite battle practice and defi nitely alien to the Macedonian phalanx. All our main sources, writing under the Roman Occupation regime (Plutarch, Polybius), or being outright Romans (Livius) have projected and imposed this view. Though, the manipular system if properly scrutinized shows many common features with the Spartan system of the era and even with the Macedonian one, features possibly imported in Italy by the campaigns of such war-leaders as Archidamus and Alexander of Hepirus. The incorporation of these approaches in a selective base and their integration with materiel, policy and even tactics, technique and procedure (TTP) of local peculiarities produced the Republican roman military system.Save to LibraryDownloadby Spyros Bakas and +1Manousos Kambouris•  28  Greek History, Roman History, Hellenistic History, Greek Archaeology1-2 Maccabei. Nuova versione, introduzione e commentoTranslation, commentary and theology of the Books of  Maccabees. A historian (Lucio Troiani) and an exegete (Claudio Balzaretti) in comparison. two different methods compared. Relationship between history and theology: agreement or clash?Save to LibraryDownloadby claudio balzaretti•  13  Religion, Ancient History, Jewish Studies, Israel/PalestineHow & Why Ancient Royalty Created Facades & IllusionsRE: Facades, illusions & ideological concepts created & promoted by ancient royalty out of necessity; effective creation of an alternate version of reality. It is only by knowing this information that the true nature of ancient texts may... moreRE: Facades, illusions & ideological concepts created & promoted by ancient royalty out of necessity; effective creation of an alternate version of reality. It is only by knowing this information that the true nature of ancient texts may be understood correctly. Not knowing, means making incorrect assumptions & conclusions. Important!Save to LibraryDownloadby Roman Piso•  526  Religion, Christianity, Gnosticism, Ancient Egyptian ReligionPortraits: 400 Years of Hellenistic Portraits - 400 Jahre hellenistische Portraits>500 highest quality portrait coin images in highest resolution and large size from across the Hellenistic world incl 3 previously unknown hellenistic kings; 14 research articles on Hellenistic Portraiture on coins and other... more>500 highest quality portrait coin images in highest resolution and large size from across the Hellenistic world incl 3 previously unknown hellenistic kings;  14 research articles on Hellenistic Portraiture on coins and other media.  410 pages threadbound hardcover. The 2.5kg book can be ordered via raeticus@yahoo.de ISBN 978-3-922840-41-1 Ausgehend von den Münzportraits der hellenistischen Herrscher und Herrscherinnen (über 500 Münzen werden allein im Katalogteil in mehrfacher Vergrößerung abgebildet, dazu die Rückseiten in einheitlicher Vergrößerung) werden auch die Herrscherportraits in den anderen Medien (Rundplastik, Relief, Malerei, Glyptik) analysiert. Dargestellt wird die Entwicklung von den Vorläufern in der griechischen und graeco-persischen Welt bis zum Übergang in das römische Kaiserporträt. Schwerpunkte der Einzeluntersuchungen bilden das Portrait Alexanders des Großen, die Bildnisse der Seleukiden und Seleukidinnen sowie der Ptolemäer, aber auch Darstellungen von Herrschern mit bestimmten Attributen oder Überlegungen zum Übergang zwischen hellenistischen und römischen Porträts.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas Pangerl and +5Harald SchulzeWilhelm MüselerHans-Christoph von MoschRudolf KänelG.R. Farhad  Assar•  20  Archaeology, Hellenistic History, Numismatics, Greek ArchaeologyA History of Pergamum: Beyond Hellenistic KingshipThis work attempts to combine detail from over a millennium into a manageable study of Pergamum, initially one of the most significant political and military role players in the Hellenistic World and thereafter a cultural leader in a... moreThis work attempts to combine detail from over a millennium into a manageable study of Pergamum, initially one of the most significant political and military role players in the Hellenistic World and thereafter a cultural leader in a world governed by Rome.Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard Evans•  12  Greek Literature, Greek History, Roman History, Hellenistic HistoryHellenistic Imperialism and the Idea of World Unity (2014)I argue that the Hellenistic empires were not the pseudo-modern, bounded states of much earlier literature but that they cultivated universalistic ideologies no less than the Achaemenid and Assyrian empires had done before them. More... moreI argue that the Hellenistic empires were not the pseudo-modern, bounded states of much earlier literature but that they cultivated universalistic ideologies no less than the Achaemenid and Assyrian empires had done before them. More importantly, building upon an argument put forward in a 2010 article about Cleopatra, I propose that universalistic ideology had the very practical aim of integrating multi-ethnic, multicultural elites under a single ideological umbrella. The Hellenistic empires in their turn transmitted these imperial ideologies (in a "Hellenized" form) to the Arsakid and Roman empires.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rolf Strootman•  14  Hellenistic History, Ideology, Cosmopolitanism, Ancient Near EastPersianism: Or Achaemenid Reminiscences in the Iranian and Iranicate World(s) of AntiquitySave to LibraryDownloadby Rahim Shayegan•  40  Hellenistic History, Achaemenid Persia, Sasanian History, Hellenistic and Roman Asia MinorMemory and Ideology of the First Successors of Alexander the Great as inscribed on Roman Mosaics from Apameia of SyriaIntroduction 1. Some Remarks on the Discovery and a Description of the Mosaic 2. Searching for the original Source of Inspiration 3. Where would the original Scene of the Foundation of Pella/Apameia have been kept? 4. How is the Mosaic... moreIntroduction1. Some Remarks on the Discovery and a Description of the Mosaic2. Searching for the original Source of Inspiration3. Where would the original Scene of the Foundation of Pella/Apameia have been kept?4. How is the Mosaic Witness to the Culture and Ideology of the first Seleukids?ConclusionThe author offers new reflections in the field of the origin of the historical mosaic of Apameia (foundation of Pella in 320 BCE and of Apameia in 300 BCE) dating from the 4th CAD, of history (for example concerning the identification of Archippos oikistes, legendary founder of Pella-on-the-Orontes,  as an important historical figure at Athens in 321-320 BCE); of the style history of the mosaic, of the origin of its inspiration, and of the archaeology concerning the Macedonian military settlement Pella.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marek Titien Olszewski (Marek Tycjan Olszewski)•  20  Ancient History, Late Antique Art and Archaeology, Roman Syria (Archaeology), Seleucid EmpireNextLast »Related TopicsSeleucid EmpireFollowFollowingHellenistic HistoryFollowFollowingHellenistic and Roman Asia MinorFollowFollowingHellenistic BabyloniaFollowFollowingHellenistic MonarchyFollowFollowingHellenistic BactriaFollowFollowingParthian EmpireFollowFollowingSeleucid kingdomFollowFollowingArchaeology of the Hellenistic EastFollowFollowingAchaemenid HistoryFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023