CAIN: The Anglo-Irish Treaty, December 1921
CAIN Web Service
The Anglo-Irish Treaty, 6 December 1921
[CAIN_Home]
[Key_Events]
[KEY_ISSUES]
[Conflict_Background]
Page Compiled: Fionnuala McKenna
ANGLO IRISH TREATY 
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT AS SIGNED
on December 6th, 1921
1. Ireland shall have the same constitutional status in the Community
of Nations known as the British Empire as the Dominion of Canada,
the Commonwealth of Australia, the Dominion of New Zealand and
the Union of South Africa, with a Parliament having powers to
make laws for the peace, order and good government of Ireland
and an Executive responsible to that Parliament, and shall be
styled and known as the Irish Free State.
2. Subject to the provisions hereinafter set out the position
of the Irish Free State in relation to the Imperial Parliament
and Government and otherwise shall be that of the Dominion of
Canada, and the law practice and constitutional usage governing
the relationship of the Crown or the representative of the Crown
and of the Imperial Parliament to the Dominion of Canada shall
govern their relationship to the Irish Free State.
3. The representative of the Crown in Ireland shall be appointed
in like manner as the Governor-General of. Canada and in accordance
with the practice observed in the making of such appointments.
4. The oath to be taken by Members of the Parliament of the Irish
Free State shall be in the following form:
I ...…................ do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance
to the Constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established
and that I will be faithful to H.M. King George V, his heirs and
successors by law, in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland
with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the
group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations.
5. The Irish Free State shall assume liability for the service
of the Public Debt of the United Kingdom as existing at the date
hereof and towards the payment of war pensions as existing at
that date in such proportion as may be fair and equitable, having
regard to any just claims on the part of Ireland by way of set-off
or counter-claim, the amount of such sums being determined in
default of agreement by the arbitration of one or more independent
persons being citizens of the British Empire.
6. Until an arrangement has been made between the British and
Irish Governments whereby the Irish Free State undertakes her
own coastal defence, the defence by sea of Great Britain and Ireland
shall be undertaken by His Majesty's Imperial Forces. But this
shall not prevent the construction or maintenance by the Government
of the Irish Free State of such vessels as are necessary for the
protection of the Revenue or the Fisheries. 
The foregoing provisions of this Article shall be reviewed at
a Conference of Representatives of the British and Irish Governments
to be held at the expiration of five years from the date hereof
with a view to a share in her own coastal defence.
7. The Government of the Irish Free State shall afford to His
Majesty's Imperial Forces:
(a) In time of peace such harbour and other facilities as are
indicated in the Annex hereto, or such other facilities as may
from time to time be agreed between the British Government and
the Government of the Irish Free State; and
(b) In time of war or of strained relations with a Foreign Power
such harbour and other facilities as the British Government may
require for the purposes of such defence as aforesaid.
8. With a view to securing the observance of the principle of
international limitation of armaments, if the Government of the
Irish Free State establishes and maintains a military defence
force, the establishments thereof shall not exceed in size such
proportion of the military establishments maintained in Great
Britain as that which the population of Ireland bears to the population
of Great Britain.
9. The ports of Great Britain and the Irish Free State shall be
freely open to the ships of the other country on payment of the
customary port and other dues.
10. The Government of the Irish Free State agrees to pay fair
compensation on terms not less favourable than those accorded
by the Act of 1920 to judges, officials, members of Police Forces
and other Public Servants who are discharged by it or who retire
in consequence of the change of Government effected in pursuance
hereof. 
Provided that this agreement shall not apply to members of the
Auxiliary Police Force or to persons recruited in Great Britain
for the Royal Irish Constabulary during the two years next preceding
the date hereof. The British Government will assume responsibility
for such compensation or pensions as may be payable to any of
these excepted persons.
11. Until the expiration of one month from the passing of the
Act of Parliament for the ratification of this instrument, the
powers of the Parliament and the Government of the Irish Free
State shall not be exercisable as respects Northern Ireland and
the provisions of the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, shall so
far as they relate to Northern Ireland remain of full force and
effect, and no election shall be held for the return of members
to serve in the Parliament of the Irish Free State for constituencies
in Northern Ireland, unless a resolution is passed by both Houses
of the Parliament of Northern Ireland in favour of the holding
of such election before the end of the said month.
12. If before the expiration of the said month, an address is
presented to His Majesty by both Houses of the Parliament of Northern
Ireland to that effect, the powers of the Parliament and Government
of the Irish Free State shall no longer extend to Northern Ireland,
and the provisions of the Government of Ireland Act., 1920 (including
those relating to the Council of Ireland) shall, so far as they
relate to Northern  Ireland continue to be of full force and effect,
and this instrument shall have effect subject to the necessary
modifications. 
Provided that if such an address is so presented a Commission
consisting of three Persons, one to be appointed by the Government
of the Irish Free State, one to be appointed by the Government
of Northern Ireland and one who shall be Chairman to be appointed
by the British Government shall determine in accordance with the
wishes of the inhabitants, so far as may be compatible with economic
and geographic conditions, the boundaries between Northern Ireland
and the rest of Ireland, and for the purposes of the Government
of Ireland Act, 1920, and of this instrument, the boundary of
Northern Ireland shall be such as may be determined by such Commission.
13. For the purpose of the last foregoing article, the powers
of the Parliament of Southern Ireland under the Government of
Ireland Act, 1920, to elect members of the Council of Ireland
shall after the Parliament of the Irish Free State is constituted
be exercised by that Parliament.
14. After the expiration of the said month, if no such address
as is mentioned in Article 12 hereof is Presented, the Parliament
and Government of Northern Ireland shall continue to exercise
as  respects Northern Ireland the powers conferred on them by
the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, but the Parliament and Government
of the Irish Free State shall in Northern Ireland have in relation
to matters in respect of which the Parliament of Northern Ireland
has not power to make laws under that Act (including matters which
under the said Act are within the jurisdiction of the Council
of Ireland) the same powers as in the rest of Ireland, subject
to such other provisions as may he agreed in manner hereinafter
appearing.
15. At any time after the date hereof the Government of Northern
Ireland and the provisional Government of Southern Ireland hereinafter constituted may meet for the purpose of discussing the provisions
subject to which the last foregoing article is to operate in the
event of no such address as is therein mentioned being presented
and those provisions may include:
(a) Safeguards with regard to patronage in Northern Ireland:
(b) Safeguards with regard to the collection of revenue in Northern
Ireland:
(c) Safeguards with regard to import and export duties affecting
the trade or industry of Northern Ireland:
(d) Safeguards for minorities in Northern Ireland:
(c) The settlement of the financial relations between Northern
Ireland and the Irish Free State:
(f) The establishment and powers of a local militia in Northern
Ireland and the relation of the Defence Forces of the Irish Free
State and of Northern Ireland respectively:
and if at any such meeting provisions are agreed to, the same
shall have effect as if they were included amongst the provisions
subject to which the Powers of the Parliament and Government of
the Irish Free State are to be exercisable in Northern Ireland
under Article 14 hereof.
16. Neither the Parliament of the Irish Free State nor the Parliament
of Northern Ireland shall make any law so as either directly or
indirectly to endow any religion or. prohibit or restrict the
free exercise thereof or give any preference or impose any disability
on account of religious belief or religious status or affect prejudicially
the right of any child to attend a school receiving public money
without attending  religious instruction at the school or make
any discrimination as respects state aid between schools under
the management of different religious denominations or divert
from any religious denomination. or any educational institution
any of its property except for public utility purposes and on
payment of compensation.
17. By way of provisional arrangement for the administration of
Southern Ireland during the interval which must elapse between
the date hereof and the constitution of a Parliament and Government
of the Irish Free State in accordance therewith, steps shall be
taken forthwith for summoning a meeting of members of Parliament
elected for constituencies in Southern Ireland since the passing
of the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, and for constituting a
provisional Government, and the British Government shall take
the steps necessary to transfer to such provisional Government
the powers and machinery requisite for the discharge of its duties,
provided that every member of such provisional Government shall
have signified in writing his or her acceptance of this instrument.
But this arrangement shall not continue in force beyond the expiration
of twelve months from the date hereof.
18. This instrument shall be submitted forthwith by is Majesty's
Government for the approval of Parliament and by the Irish signatories
to a meeting summoned for the purpose of the members elected to
sit in the House of Commons of Southern Ireland, and if approved
shall be ratified by the necessary legislation. 
On behalf of the British Delegation.
On behalf of the Irish Delegation.
Signed Signed
D. LLOYD GEORGE. ART Ó GRÍOBHTHA (ARTHUR GRIFFITH).
AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN. MICHEAL Ó COILÉAIN.
BIRKENHEAD. RIOBÁRD BARTÚN.
WINSTON S. CHURCHILL. EUDHMONN S. Ó DÚGÁIN.
L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS. SEÓRSA GHABHÁIN UÍ DHUBHTHAIGH.
HAMAR GREENWOOD.
GORDON HEWART. 
December 6th, 1921
ANNEX
1. The following are the specific facilities required:
Dockyard Port at Berehaven
(a) Admiralty property and rights to be retained as at the rate
hereof. Harbour defences to remain in charge of British care and
maintenance parties.
Queenstown
(b) Harbour defences to remain in charge of British care and maintenance
parties. Certain mooring buoys to be retained for use of His Majesty's
ships.
Belfast Lough
(c) Harbour defences to remain in charge of British care and maintenance
parties.
Lough Swilly 
(d) Harbour defences to remain in charge of British care and maintenance
parties.
Aviation
(e) Facilities in the neighbourhood of the above Ports for coastal
defence by air.
Oil Fuel Storage
(f) Haulbowline,
     Rathmullen - To be offered for sale to commercial companies under guarantee that purchasers shall maintain a certain minimum stock for Admiralty purposes.
2. A Convention shall be made between the British Government and
the Government of the Irish Free State to give effect to the following
conditions:
(a) That submarine cables shall not be landed or wireless stations
for communications with places outside Ireland be established,
except by agreement with the British Government; that the existing
cable landing rights and wireless concessions shall not be withdrawn
except by agreement with the British Government; and that the
British Government shall be entitled to land additional submarine
cables or establish additional wireless stations for communication
with places outside Ireland.
(b) That lighthouses, buoys, beacons, and any navigational marks
or navigational aids shall he maintained by the Government of
the Irish Free State as at the date hereof and shall not be removed
or added to except by agreement with the British Government. 
(c) That war signal stations shall be closed down and left in
charge of care and maintenance parties, the Government of the
Irish Free State being offered the option of taking them over
and working them for commercial purposes subject to Admiralty
inspection, and guaranteeing the upkeep of existing telegraphic
communication therewith.
3. A Convention shall be made between the same Governments for
the regulation of Civil Communication by Air.
D. LL. G.
A.C.B.
W. S. C. 
E. S. O D.A. G.
M. O C.
R. B.
S. G. D.
CAIN
            contains information and source material on the conflict
            and politics in Northern Ireland.
          CAIN is based within Ulster University.
  
          Last modified : 
          
© 
          1996-2023 CAIN