House of Lords - Practice Directions and Standing Orders Applicable to Civil Appeals
103 captures
01 Jul 2009 - 10 Jul 2023
Nov
DEC
Jul
06
2012
2013
2014
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Survey Crawl Number 0 - Started May 18th, 2013 - Ended May 15, 2014
The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machine
This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of all outbound links including their embeds)
The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the general public.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20131206120915/http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld199697/ldinfo/ld08judg/bluebook/bluebk03.htm
Accessibility
Email alerts
RSS feeds
Contact us
Home
Parliamentary business
MPs, Lords & offices
About Parliament
Get involved
Visiting
Education
House of Commons
House of Lords
What's on
Bills & legislation
Committees
Publications & records
Parliament TV
News
Topics
Practice Directions and Standing Orders Applicable to Civil Appeals Contents
 HOUSE OF LORDS 
PRACTICE DIRECTIONS APPLICABLE TO CIVIL
APPEALS
PART I - DIRECTIONS ON PETITIONS FOR LEAVE
TO APPEAL
1.  PERMISSION TO APPEAL
Introduction
1.1  Subject to certain conditions, appeals in
civil matters may be brought to the House of Lords from the Court
of Appeal in England and Wales and in Northern Ireland, from the
High Court in England and Wales and in Northern Ireland under
the "leapfrog" procedure, and from the Court of Session
in Scotland[1].
 The judicial procedures of the House are regulated by statute,
by standing orders of the House and by practice directions[2].
 Copies of these and other documents may be obtained free of charge
from the Judicial Office of the House of Lords or downloaded from
the Internet.  
Terminology
1.2  The Appellate Jurisdiction Act 1876 is the
basic Act governing the judicial function of the House of Lords.
 This booklet uses the terminology of that Act.  The term "leave
to appeal" means permission to appeal.  A "petition
for leave to appeal" is an application for permission to
appeal.
Right of appeal
1.3  The right of appeal to the House of Lords
is regulated by statute and subject to statutory restrictions.
 The relevant statutes for civil appeals are: the Administration
of Justice (Appeals) Act 1934; the Administration of Justice Act
1960; the Administration of Justice Act 1969; the Judicature (Northern
Ireland) Act 1978; the Court of Session Act 1988; and the Access
to Justice Act 1999.  Every applicant for leave to appeal must
comply with the statutory requirements before the application
can be considered by the House.  The Human Rights Act 1998 applies
to the House in its judicial capacity.  But that Act does not
confer any general right of appeal to the House, or any right
of appeal in addition to or superseding any right of appeal provided
for in Acts passed before the coming into force of the Human Rights
Act 1998.  
Stay of execution
1.4  See direction 43.
Appeals from (i)
the Court of Appeal in England & Wales; and (ii) the Court
of Appeal in Northern Ireland 
1.5  An appeal to the House of Lords from any
order or judgment of the Court of Appeal in England and Wales
or in Northern Ireland may only be brought with the leave of the
Court of Appeal or of the House of Lords[3].
1.6  An application for leave to appeal must be
made first to the Court of Appeal and only after that Court refuses
leave may application be made to the House of Lords itself.  Application
is made by presenting a petition for leave to appeal[4].
Appeals from the Court of Session
in Scotland
1.7  Leave to appeal is not required in appeals
to which directions 1.8 and 1.9 apply.  Leave to appeal is required
for appeals to which directions 1.10 and 1.11 apply.  
1.8  As a general rule, leave to appeal is not
required from an interlocutor of the Inner House of the Court
of Session on the whole merits of the cause[5].
 Standing Orders I and IV govern such appeals.  The petition of
appeal must be lodged within 3 months of the date of the interlocutor
appealed from; and the petition of appeal must be signed by two
Scottish counsel who must also certify that the appeal is reasonable[6].
 
1.9       As a general rule, leave to appeal is
not required from an interlocutory judgment of the Court of Session
where there is a difference of opinion among the judges or where
the interlocutory judgment is one sustaining a dilatory defence
and dismissing the action[7].
 Standing Orders I and IV apply: the petition of appeal must be
lodged within 3 months of the date of the interlocutor appealed
from; and the petition of appeal must be signed by two Scottish
counsel who must also certify that the appeal is reasonable. 
1.10  Leave to appeal is required for an appeal
to the House of Lords against any interlocutory judgment of the
Court of Session that does not fall within direction 1.9, and
only the Inner House of the Court of Session may grant such leave
to appeal[8].
 In all such cases a refusal of the Court of Session to grant
leave to appeal is final and no petition for leave to appeal may
then be presented to the House of Lords.
1.11  Leave to appeal from the Court of Session
is also required for an appeal to the House of Lords under the
provisions of certain Acts of Parliament, and such leave may be
granted either by the Court of Session or, if refused by the Court
of Session, by the House of Lords[9].
 When leave to appeal is granted pursuant to direction 1.10 or
this direction, a certificate of reasonableness is not required[10].
Appeals from (i)
High Court of Justice in England & Wales; and (ii) High Court
of Justice in Northern Ireland
1.12  In certain cases, and subject to certain
conditions, an appeal lies direct from the High Court in England
and Wales or in Northern Ireland to the House of Lords.  A certificate
of the High Court must first be obtained and the leave of the
House of Lords then sought and given before the appeal may proceed
(see direction 6)[11].
 No application may be made to the House of Lords without the
certificate of the High Court.
Civil contempt of court cases
1.13  In cases involving civil contempt of court,
an appeal may be brought under s 13 of the Administration of Justice
Act 1960[12].
 Leave to appeal is required and an application for such leave
must first be made to the court below.  If that application is
refused, a petition for leave to appeal may then be presented
to the House of Lords.  Where the decision of the court below
is a decision on appeal under the same section of the same Act,
leave to appeal to the House of Lords is only granted if the court
below certifies that a point of law of general public importance
is involved in that decision and if it appears to that court or
to the House, as the case may be, that the point is one that ought
to be considered by the House.  Where the court below refuses
to grant the certificate required, a petition for leave to appeal
is not accepted for presentation to the House.
Admissibility
of petitions
1.14  Leave to appeal to the House of Lords is
subject to conditions imposed by Parliament in statute.  The following
types of petition are excluded by statute from the House's jurisdiction:
(a)  petitions for leave to appeal from a refusal
by the Court of Appeal to grant leave to appeal to that court
from a judgment or order of a lower court, or from any other preliminary
decision of the Court of Appeal in respect of a case in which
leave to appeal to the Court of Appeal was not granted[13];
(b)  petitions for leave to appeal brought by
a petitioner in respect of whom the High Court has made an order
under s 42 of the Supreme Court Act 1981 (restriction of vexatious
legal proceedings), except a petition for leave to appeal against
the s 42 order itself;
(c)  petitions for leave to appeal from a decision
of the Court of Appeal on any appeal from a county court in any
probate proceedings[14];
(d)  petitions for leave to appeal from a decision
of the Court of Appeal on an appeal from a decision of the High
Court on a question of law under Part III of the Representation
of the People Act 1983 (legal proceedings)[15].
1.15  All petitions for leave to appeal, including
those that are prima facie inadmissible under direction 1.14,
are accepted by the Judicial Office for presentation to the House
and are referred to an Appeal Committee, provided direction 1.16
is complied with.  
1.16  No petition for leave to appeal may be considered
by an Appeal Committee unless:
(a)   the petition is properly served on the respondents
(see direction 3.12);
(b)   all the required documents are supplied
to the Judicial Office (see directions 3.13 and 4.2); and 
(c)   the prescribed fee is paid or a form of
waiver lodged (see directions 3.16-3.17).
1.17  If the Appeal Committee finds a petition
to be inadmissible, the Judicial Office informs the petitioner
in writing of the Committee's decision.  The European Court of
Human Rights accepts this letter (accompanied by the Committee's
report and the House of Lords Business[16]
in which the report is recorded) as setting out the jurisdiction
of the House of Lords in the litigation, for the purpose of determining
whether the petitioner has satisfied the requirement, laid down
by Article 35 of the European Convention on Human Rights, that
all domestic remedies must be exhausted before an appeal can be
made to the Strasbourg Court.
1.18  Under the rule in Taylor v Lawrence[17]
the Court of Appeal can in exceptional circumstances reopen an
appeal or application for permission to appeal after it has given
a final judgment.  If the Court of Appeal refuses an application
to reopen a previously concluded appeal or application for permission
to appeal, no application may be made to the House of Lords for
permission to appeal against that refusal[18].
      
Judicial review:
civil matters
1.19  An application for permission to apply for
judicial review is made to the Administrative Court (part of the
Queen's Bench Division of the High Court).  If the judge of the
Administrative Court refuses the application without a hearing,
an application can be made for the decision to be reconsidered
at a hearing.  Where permission to apply for judicial review has
been refused by the Administrative Court after consideration of
the papers and after reconsideration at an oral hearing, the applicant
may appeal against the refusal of permission.  Such an appeal
must be lodged in the Court of Appeal within 7 days.  For such
an appeal to be successful, the applicant needs to be granted
both i) permission to appeal against the Administrative Court's
determination; and ii) permission to apply for judicial review.
1.20   If the Court of Appeal refuses permission
to appeal to it against the decision of the Administrative Court
refusing permission to apply for judicial review, there is no
appeal to the House of Lords.  The House of Lords has no jurisdiction
to receive such an appeal[19].
 However, if the Court of Appeal (a) grants permission to appeal
to it against the Administrative Court's refusal of permission
to apply for judicial review, but then (b) itself refuses permission
to apply for judicial review, the House of Lords does have jurisdiction
to hear an appeal against that refusal[20].
Cross-appeals
1.21  See direction 30.
Public funding/legal
aid
1.22  See direction 41.
Counsel
1.23  Petitioners and respondents to a petition
for leave to appeal may instruct leading or junior counsel, but
on taxation (assessment of costs) the House allows only junior
counsel's fees for any stage of a petition for leave to appeal,
even if a public funding or legal aid certificate provides for
leading counsel.  The only exception to this practice is where
leading counsel who conducted the case in the court below are
instructed by the Legal Services Commission or legal aid authorities
to advise on the merits of an appeal.  
 1   For appeals "in a criminal cause or matter",
see the Red Book of Practice directions applicable to criminal
appeals (January 2007 edition) available from the Judicial
Office and on www.parliament.uk. Back
 2  
The orders are made pursuant to the Appellate Jurisdiction Act
1876 s 11. Back
 3  
Administration of Justice (Appeals) Act 1934 s 1(1); Judicature
(Northern Ireland) Act 1978 s 42. Back
 4  
For form of petition, see Appendix A, Form 1. Back
 5  
Court of Session Act 1988 s 40(1)(a).  The right of appeal may
however be restricted or excluded by statute e.g. Transport Act
1985 s 117, Sch 4, para 14(1).   Back
 6  
For the purposes of Standing Order IV the word "counsel"
includes any enrolled solicitor having a right of audience in
the House of Lords. Back
 7  
Court of Session Act 1988 s 40(1)(a). Back
 8  
Court of Session Act 1988 s 40(1)(b). Back
 9  
e.g. Aircraft and Shipbuilding Act 1977 s 9; Tribunals and Inquiries
Act 1992 s 11. Back
 10  
Standing Order IV. Back
 11  
Administration of Justice Act 1969 ss 12-15. Back
 12  
Or, in Northern Ireland, under Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act
1978 s 44.  Appeals involving criminal contempt of court are subject
to the Practice directions applicable to Criminal Appeals (January
2006 ed). Back
 13  
See the decisions of the House in Lane v. Esdaile [1891]
AC 10; also R v. Secretary of State for Trade and Industry
ex parte Eastaway [2000] 1WLR 2222; Access to Justice Act
1999 s 54, and Part 52 Civil Procedure Rules (as amended).  No
appeal lies to the House from incidental decisions of the Court
of Appeal which may be called into question by rules of court:
Supreme Court Act 1981 s 58 (as amended by Access to Justice Act
1999 s 60). Back
 14  
County Courts Act 1934 s 82. Back
 15  
Representation of the People Act 1983 s 157(1). Back
 16  
The record of the House's proceedings. Back
 17  
[2002] EWCA Civ 90. Back
 18  
Civil Procedure Rules, r 52.17.  Back
 19  
The House's decision in R v Secretary of State for Trade and
Industry, ex parte Eastaway [2000] 1 WLR 2222 applying the
principle in Lane v Esdaile [1891] AC 10. Back
 20  
The House's decision in R v Hammersmith and Fulham LBC, ex
parte Burkett [2002] 1WLR 1593. Back
 
© Parliamentary copyright 2006
A-Z index
Glossary
Contact us
Freedom of Information
Jobs
Using this website
Copyright