Commons:Picture of the day - Wikimedia Commons
Commons:Picture of the day
From Wikimedia Commons, the free media repository
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Translate this pageShortcut: COM:POTD
Other languages:Alemannisch
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Basa Bali
Bân-lâm-gú
Cymraeg
Deutsch
English
Esperanto
Gaeilge
Kapampangan
Kiswahili
Latina
Lëtzebuergesch
Malti
Nederlands
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Winaray
Yorùbá
aragonés
asturianu
azərbaycanca
bosanski
brezhoneg
català
dansk
eesti
español
euskara
français
føroyskt
galego
hrvatski
interlingua
italiano
latviešu
lietuvių
magyar
norsk bokmål
norsk nynorsk
occitan
oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча
polski
português
română
shqip
sicilianu
slovenčina
slovenščina
suomi
svenska
čeština
Ελληνικά
алтай тил
беларуская
беларуская (тарашкевіца)
български
ирон
кыргызча
македонски
русский
српски / srpski
українська
қазақша
հայերեն
עברית
العربية
روچ کپتین بلوچی
فارسی
مازِرونی
پنجابی
پښتو
کٲشُر
नेपाल भाषा
मराठी
অসমীয়া
বাংলা
ગુજરાતી
ଓଡ଼ିଆ
മലയാളം
ไทย
မြန်မာဘာသာ
ქართული
ភាសាខ្មែរ
中文
日本語
粵語
閩南語
한국어
POTD logo
Picture of the day
30 August 2023
Pedra Azul (Blue Stone) peak with the center of the Milky Way above it. Pedra Azul State Park is a state park in Domingos Martins, Espírito Santo, Brazil.+/− [en]
These are images selected for display on the Main Page as the Picture of the day.  Publishing them on this page allows users to translate the captions into other languages.
Pictures of the day will be chosen from Featured pictures of Commons. Featured pictures are the finest images on Wikimedia Commons and are selected by consensus on Commons:Featured picture candidates. Pictures of the day should be selected from images that were strongly supported during the nomination process. For instructions on how to add a Picture of the Day, see Commons:Picture of the day/Instructions.
 Receive the Picture of the day via e-mail (mailing-list)
 Receive the Picture of the Day via RSS web feed (more information)
The current Picture of the Day can be included on a page using the template
{{Potd|width=300|float=right|lang=en}}
The image can be accessed using
[[:File:{{Potd/{{CURRENTYEAR}}-{{CURRENTMONTH}}-{{CURRENTDAY2}}}}]]
The caption can be accessed using
{{Potd/{{CURRENTYEAR}}-{{CURRENTMONTH}}-{{CURRENTDAY2}} (en)}}
Write a description
You can write a description for a Picture of the day by using this function. Replace YYYY with the wanted year, MM with month, DD with day, and xx with your language code. Further information is given on the page that opens after you click on the button.
Current month
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
1
View of Noordhoek Beach from Chapman's Peak Dr, Cape Peninsula, South AfricaChange image 
English : View of Noordhoek Beach from Chapman's Peak Dr, Cape Peninsula, South Africa
2
Former central post office building in Gothenburg, Sweden. Today, Clarion Hotel Post.Change image 
English : Former central post office building in Gothenburg, Sweden. Today, Clarion Hotel Post.
3
A farmer packages incense sticks in Vietnam.Change image 
English : A farmer packages incense sticks in Vietnam.
4
A brewery in California. Today is International Beer Day.Change image 
English : A brewery in California. Today is International Beer Day.
5
Alley between Stadtweinhaus and City Hall, Münster, North Rhine-Westphalia, GermanyChange image 
English : Alley between Stadtweinhaus and City Hall, Münster, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
6
Reformierte Kirche Waltensburg church Interior. (church organ).Change image 
English : Reformierte Kirche Waltensburg church Interior. (church organ).
7
A little girl takes some water at a standpipe during a hot summer day in Paris (France) in 1921.Change image 
English : A little girl takes some water at a standpipe during a hot summer day in Paris (France) in 1921.
8
Interior of the main hall of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Warsaw, Poland.Change image 
English : Interior of the main hall of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Warsaw, Poland.
9
Joséphine Baker, published by Jean Chassaing, lithography in color, Paris, H. Chachoin imprimeur, 1931.Change image 
English : Joséphine Baker, published by Jean Chassaing, lithography in color, Paris, H. Chachoin imprimeur, 1931.
10
Clavulinopsis sulcata, Lane Cove River, Sydney, New South Wales, AustraliaChange image 
English : Clavulinopsis sulcata, Lane Cove River, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia
11
Catholic parish church of Sts. Julitta and Cyricus,  Andiast, Switzerland. Stained glass window.Change image 
English : Catholic parish church of Sts. Julitta and Cyricus,  Andiast, Switzerland. Stained glass window.
12
Zhiduoxing, Wu Yong, a fictional character from the classic Chinese novel Water Margin. Painting by Japanese painter Utagawa Kuniyoshi. Today is the 45th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship between Japan and China.Change image 
English : Zhiduoxing, Wu Yong, a fictional character from the classic Chinese novel Water Margin. Painting by Japanese painter Utagawa Kuniyoshi. Today is the 45th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship between Japan and China.
13
Aerial photo of Ivanovo, RussiaChange image 
English : Aerial photo of Ivanovo, Russia
14
The Frere Hall in Karachi. Today is Independence Day of Pakistan, and 50th anniversary of the Constitution of Pakistan.Change image 
English : The Frere Hall in Karachi. Today is Independence Day of Pakistan, and 50th anniversary of the Constitution of Pakistan.
15
The Indus river flowing near Leh, the capital of the trans-Himalayan Ladakh region in northern India. The country, many of whose names in several languages ultimately derive from the Sanskrit name of the Indus river, celebrates its Independence day today.Change image 
English : The Indus river flowing near Leh, the capital of the trans-Himalayan Ladakh region in northern India. The country, many of whose names in several languages ultimately derive from the Sanskrit name of the Indus river, celebrates its Independence day today.
16
Chess pieces: pawns (one and another)Change image 
English : Chess pieces: pawns (one and another)
17
Odenwald Open-Air Museum at Gottersdorf, Walldürn, Germany: a window in the former village pub Zur goldenen Krone (The Golden Crown) from Dallau, decorated with sunflowers suitable for the seasonChange image 
English : Odenwald Open-Air Museum at Gottersdorf, Walldürn, Germany: a window in the former village pub Zur goldenen Krone (The Golden Crown) from Dallau, decorated with sunflowers suitable for the season
18
Northern lights over an abandoned weather station in TeriberkaChange image 
English : Northern lights over an abandoned weather station in Teriberka
19
The Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel, a triumphal arch located in Paris (France). Built between 1806 and 1808, it was commissioned by Emperor Napoleon I to commemorate his military victories.Change image 
English : The Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel, a triumphal arch located in Paris (France). Built between 1806 and 1808, it was commissioned by Emperor Napoleon I to commemorate his military victories.
20
Snow and ice melting in Lake St. Clair, on the border between Canada and the United States, create stunning color patterns.Change image 
English : Snow and ice melting in Lake St. Clair, on the border between Canada and the United States, create stunning color patterns.
21
Fortified Ingush military tower, "Hamishki", circa 16th century, with Erzi towers in the background. Armkhi Valley, mountains of the Republic of Ingushetia, Central Caucasus.Change image 
English : Fortified Ingush military tower, "Hamishki", circa 16th century, with Erzi towers in the background. Armkhi Valley, mountains of the Republic of Ingushetia, Central Caucasus.
22
Las Docas in Belém, Brazil: restored ancient docks, presently with bars, restaurants and shops. Las Docas are located on the banks of the bay of the Guajará river.Change image 
English : Las Docas in Belém, Brazil: restored ancient docks, presently with bars, restaurants and shops. Las Docas are located on the banks of the bay of the Guajará river.
23
Conchita Wurst representing Austria with the song "Rise Like a Phoenix" during a dress rehearsal before the second semi-final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2014 in Copenhagen, DenmarkChange image 
English : Conchita Wurst representing Austria with the song "Rise Like a Phoenix" during a dress rehearsal before the second semi-final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2014 in Copenhagen, Denmark
24
Light in the chapel (Shyshkovi hills, Chernivtsi oblast, Ukraine). Today is the Independence Day of Ukraine.Change image 
English : Light in the chapel (Shyshkovi hills, Chernivtsi oblast, Ukraine). Today is the Independence Day of Ukraine.
25
Ivy Quainoo at a concert in Gloria Theater, Cologne, in January 2014. Today is her birthday.Change image 
English : Ivy Quainoo at a concert in Gloria Theater, Cologne, in January 2014. Today is her birthday.
26
South-western black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis occidentalis) female in Etosha National Park, Namibia. Today is Heroes’ Day in Namibia. It commemorates the Namibian War of Independence which began on 26 August 1966 at Omugulugwombashe.Change image 
English : South-western black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis occidentalis) female in Etosha National Park, Namibia. Today is Heroes’ Day in Namibia. It commemorates the Namibian War of Independence which began on 26 August 1966 at Omugulugwombashe.
27
Opened seed pod of a Hyacinthoides non-scriptaChange image 
English : Opened seed pod of a Hyacinthoides non-scripta
28
View of the Pacific Ocean in Point Mugu State ParkChange image 
English : View of the Pacific Ocean in Point Mugu State Park
29
Château de Pierreclos with its church (12th century), in the département  Saône-et-Loire, region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, FranceChange image 
English : Château de Pierreclos with its church (12th century), in the département  Saône-et-Loire, region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, France
30
Pedra Azul (Blue Stone) peak with the center of the Milky Way above it. Pedra Azul State Park is a state park in Domingos Martins, Espírito Santo, Brazil.Change image 
English : Pedra Azul (Blue Stone) peak with the center of the Milky Way above it. Pedra Azul State Park is a state park in Domingos Martins, Espírito Santo, Brazil.
31
Female White-lined tanager (Tachyphonus rufus) on Trinidad. Trinidad & Tobago gained independence from the UK on this day in 1962.Change image 
English : Female White-lined tanager (Tachyphonus rufus) on Trinidad. Trinidad & Tobago gained independence from the UK on this day in 1962.
Request an additional language – Demande d’ajout d’une langue 
Next month
Pictures of the day for next month
Previous month
Pictures of the day for previous month
See also
Commons:Media of the day
Retrieved from "https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Commons:Picture_of_the_day&oldid=681454697"
Category: Commons:Potd (en)
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Project pageDiscussion
English
Views
ViewView sourceHistory
More
Search
Navigate
Main pageWelcomeCommunity portalVillage pumpHelp center
Participate
Upload fileRecent changesLatest filesRandom fileContact us
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikipedia
In Wikipedia
АдыгабзэАлтай тилالعربيةАварBasa BaliБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиभोजपुरीবাংলাBrezhonegBosanskiCatalàНохчийнQırımtatarcaЧӑвашлаEnglishEsperantoEspañolفارسیFrançaisArpetan贛語Bahasa Hulontaloहिन्दीMagyarՀայերենBahasa IndonesiaГӀалгӀай日本語JawaქართულიҚазақшаភាសាខ្មែរಕನ್ನಡ한국어Перем комиКомиКыргызчаЛаккуЛезгиМокшеньОлык марийКырык марыMirandésЭрзяньChi-ChewaLivvinkarjalaଓଡ଼ିଆИронKapampanganپښتوPortuguêsРусскийسنڌيDavvisámegiellaShqipதமிழ்ТоҷикӣTürkçeТатарча / tatarçaТыва дылУдмуртУкраїнськаOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаVepsän kel’Tiếng Việt吴语Хальмг中文文言粵語
Edit links
 This page was last edited on 10 August 2022, at 11:14.
Files are available under licenses specified on their description page. All structured data from the file namespace is available under the Creative Commons CC0 License; all unstructured text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikimedia Commons
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement