Wikipedia – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
News
Category: Wikipedia 
 
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI
Blog Post Equity Technology Wikipedia 
If there was a generative artificial intelligence system that could, on its own, write all the information contained in Wikipedia, would it be the same as Wikipedia today?
12 July 2023
By Selena Deckelmann 
Read more
 
Making Wikipedia Safer: Enforcement Guidelines for Wikimedia Universal Code of Conduct provide a model for governing online behavior
Free Knowledge Media Projects/Initiatives Volunteers Wikipedia 
The Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation has unanimously approved enforcement guidelines for the first-of-its kind Universal Code of Conduct (UCoC). The code, which was developed hand in hand with more than 1500 Wikimedia project volunteers, outlines global standards for behavior across Wikipedia and all Wikimedia projects to prevent and address harassment and other negative behavior.
21 March 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation urges Pakistan Telecommunications Authority to restore access to Wikipedia in Pakistan
Advocacy Legal Wikipedia 
On Friday, February 3, 2023, Pakistan’s Telecommunications Authority blocked Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects. The Wikimedia Foundation calls on Pakistan to restore access to Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects in the country immediately.
3 February 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikipedia Gets a Fresh New Look: First Desktop Update in a Decade Puts Usability at the Forefront
Community Deployment Technology Wikipedia 
The interface update, built in collaboration with Wikipedia volunteers worldwide, will make the site more welcoming, easier to use for everyone Update: On 4 May 2023, the desktop update was deployed to Spanish Wikipedia. The updated interface is now live on 95% of the 318 active language versions of Wikipedia for all desktop users. The….
18 January 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
2022 as you saw it on Wikipedia
Wikipedia Year in Review 
It has been a long year dominated by news headline after news headline. The Russian government invaded Ukraine. Queen Elizabeth II died. Amber Heard and Johnny Depp. The World Cup. Everything surrounding Elon Musk. Wikipedia isn’t immune to that phenomenon. But in 2022, one particular English Wikipedia article captivated readers like you more than any….
15 December 2022
By Ed Erhart 
Read more
 
New Wikipedia editor features make it easy for everyone to contribute
Interview Technology Wikipedia 
New features on Wikipedia are making it easy for everyone to edit Wikipedia, especially those contributing to the site for the first time. Every time you read a Wikipedia article, you are reading the work of a volunteer contributor.  Nearly 300,000 people from around the world edit Wikipedia articles each month — they start new….
6 December 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
European Court of Human Rights case dismissed after two years of access to Wikipedia being restored in Turkey
Advocacy Community Legal Wikipedia 
Today, the European Court of Human Rights announced that it is dismissing the Wikimedia Foundation’s 2019 petition to lift the block of Wikipedia in Turkey. The case was dismissed because access to Wikipedia was restored by the Turkish government in January 2020 and the block was already determined to be a human rights violation in….
24 March 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikipedia celebrates 20 years of free, trusted information for the world
Events Wikipedia 
14 January 2021 — Wikipedia, the world’s largest free online encyclopedia, turns 20 years old on 15 January. This birthday commemorates two decades of global efforts to support free knowledge, open collaboration, and trust on the internet. In a time when disinformation and polarization challenge our trust in information and institutions, Wikipedia is more relevant….
14 January 2021
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
The infinite potential of human collaboration
Wikipedia 
On November 2, 2000, a space capsule carrying three astronauts arrived at the International Space Station (ISS). It was appropriately named “Expedition 1,” and it was the beginning of 20 years of humans continuously living and working onboard the ISS. Just two months after the landing of Expedition 1, another seemingly impossible human endeavor launched….
11 January 2021
By Heather Walls 
Read more
 
Pandemics and politics: 2020 through the lens of Wikipedia
Wikipedia Year in Review 
This is my sixth annual post sharing the list of Wikipedia’s most popular articles of the year, and each year I’ve had to come up with different ways of saying “people really love the latest pop culture.” Then 2020 happened — and, as with most things this year, the list was very different. Instead of….
28 December 2020
By Ed Erhart 
Read more
1
2
3
…
17
Older 
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.