TT celebrates World Hindi Day - Trinidad and Tobago Newsday
 
News
Latest
Sports
Sections
Tobago
Business
Features
Opinion
Independence
Covid19 in TT
Audio & Video
Special Publications
Carnival
Popular
Classifieds
Newsday on Facebook
Newsday on Instagram
Newsday on Twitter
Newsday on YouTube
Newsday on LinkedIn
News
TT celebrates World Hindi Day
Jada Loutoo
Sunday 19 January 2020
WORLD HINDI DAY: From left, president of the TT Hindi Foundation  Chanka Seeterram, president of the National Council for Indian Culture Dr Deokinanan Sharma of NCIC, deputy mayor of San Fernando Dr Ferri Hosein, former prime minister Basdeo Panday and  India's High Commissioner to TT Arun Kumar Sahu, at the Southern Academy for the Performing Arts.  - 
INDIA’s High Commission to TT Arun Kumar Sahu has offered assistance to local schools interested in teaching Hindi.
Sahu made the offer on Saturday when the commission hosted World Hindi Day celebrations at the Southern Academy for Performing Arts, San Fernando, as part of the continued effort to promote Hindi as an important language of the world.
World Hindi Day is celebrated every year on January 10, and Indian embassies around the world organise special programmes in collaboration with various government and non-government institutions.
In TT, the event was organised in collaboration with the Mahatma Ghandi Institute for Cultural Co-Operation and the Hindi Nidhi Foundation.
Speaking at the celebration was former prime minister Basdeo Panday, president of the TT Hindi Foundation Chanka Seeterram, political leader of the Congress of the People Carolyn Seepersad-Bachan and Hindi scholarship alumni and deputy mayor of San Fernando, Dr Ferri Hosein.
Sahu also invited suggestions from attendees to further strengthen the high commission’s current Hindi teaching programme.
The first World Hindi Conference was held in Nagpur on January 10, 1975, where 122 delegates from 30 countries participated in the program.
Hindi is the fifth most spoken language in the world and several Hindi words can be found in the Oxford Dictionary including 'Bada Din', (big day) 'Acha', (Good) 'Bacha' (Child) and 'Surya Namaskar' in 2017. The High Commission said this represents the importance and acceptance of Hindi.
Trending
view all
1
A plane not a maxi taxi
Newsday
2
Molino, 33, says goodbye to Trinidad and Tobago football
Roneil Walcott
3
No need for Parkade in San Fernando
Newsday
4
Robbery suspect killed in Port of Spain
Laurel V Williams
5
Penal cops find van stolen in home invasion
Laurel V Williams
6
Free to fly
Newsday
7
Suspect to be charged for shooting death of Tobago girl, 17
Kinnesha George
Comments
"TT celebrates World Hindi Day"
More in this section
News
Venezuelan feud ends in murder in Princes Town
Yvonne Webb
News
Former Tobago Hotel and Tourism executive: Bring back standing committee on tourism
Corey Connelly
News
Tobago CivilNET launches survey on autonomy and self-governance
Corey Connelly
News
US Navy ship in Trinidad and Tobago to aid medical teams
Newsday Reporter
© 2020 - 2021 Trinidad and Tobago Newsday.
Newsday on Facebook
Newsday on Instagram
Newsday on Twitter
Newsday on YouTube
Newsday on LinkedIn
About Us
Classifieds
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
 