Nigerian Pidgin - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Status
2Variations
3Relationship to other languages and dialects
Toggle Relationship to other languages and dialects subsection
3.1Similarity to Caribbean Creoles
3.2Connection to Portuguese language
3.3Nigerian English
4Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
4.1Consonants
4.2Vowels
4.3Tones
5See also
6References
7Bibliography
8External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Nigerian Pidgin
18 languages
ČeštinaDeutschفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어HausaHrvatskiNaijá日本語PiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Nigerian Pidgin language)
English-based creole languages
Not to be confused with Nigerian English.
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (December 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Nigerian Pidgin" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Nigerian PidginNaijaNaijá (languej)Native toNigeriaNative speakers4.7 million L1 and 116 million L2 speakers (2020)[1]Language familyEnglish Creole
AtlanticKrioNigerian PidginWriting systemLatinLanguage codesISO 639-3pcmGlottolognige1257
Nigerian Pidgin, also called Naijá or Naija, is an English-based creole language spoken as a lingua franca across Nigeria. The language is sometimes referred to as Pijin or Brokun. It can be spoken as a pidgin, a creole, dialect or a decreolised acrolect by different speakers, who may switch between these forms depending on the social setting.[2] In the 2010s, a common orthography was developed for Pidgin which has been gaining significant popularity in giving the language a harmonized writing system.[3][4]
Variations of what this article refers to as "Nigerian Pidgin" are also spoken across West and Central Africa, in countries such as Benin, Ghana, and Cameroon.[5]
Status[edit]
Nigerian Pidgin is commonly used throughout the country, but it has not been granted official status. Pidgin breaks the communication barrier between different ethnic groups and it is widely spoken throughout Nigeria.[6]
In 2011, Google launched a search interface in Pidgin.[7] In 2017, BBC started BBC News Pidgin to provide services in Pidgin.[8]
Variations[edit]
Many of the 250 or more ethnic groups in Nigeria can converse in the language, though many speakers will utilize words from their native tongues. For example:
Yorùbá ṣebi is often used at the start or end of an intonated sentence or question: "You are coming, right?" becomes Ṣebi you dey come?[citation needed]
Igbo abi (another variant of the words ṣebi and ba), adding the word nna, also used at the beginning of some sentences, to show camaraderie: For example, "Man, that test was very hard" becomes Nna mehn, that test hard no be small.
Igbo unu, equivalent to the English term "you people", has been adopted as una. For example, Una dey mad in Nigerian Pidgin means "You people are crazy."[9] Unu has also found its way to Jamaican patois, with the same meaning as in Nigerian Pidgin.
Igbo biko, meaning "please." For example, the sentence Biko free me means "Please leave me alone".
Hausa ba at the end of an intonated sentence or question: you no wan come ba? means "You don't want to come, right?"
Nigerian Pidgin also varies from place to place. Dialects of Nigerian Pidgin may include the Sapele-Warri-Ughelli dialect that has majorly influenced large parts of Nigeria, Benin City dialect that has its influence from Bini language, Port Harcourt dialect that has elements of the mixed tribes in Rivers State,  Lagos (particularly in Ajegunle influenced by sizeable Niger Deltan populace); and Onitsha varieties that draws influence from Igbo language.[10]
Nigerian Pidgin is most widely spoken in the oil state Niger Delta where most of its population speak it as their first language.[11] There are accounts of pidgin being spoken first in colonial Nigeria before being adopted by other countries along the West African coast.[12]
While pidgin is spoken by many, there are wide swathes of Nigeria where pidgin is not spoken or understood, especially among those without secular education in core northern parts — Gombe State, Yobe State — of Nigeria.[13]
Relationship to other languages and dialects[edit]
Similarity to Caribbean Creoles[edit]
Nigerian Pidgin, along with the various pidgin and creole languages of West Africa, share similarities to the various English-based Creoles found in the Caribbean.
Linguists[who?] posit that this is because most of the enslaved that were taken to the New World were of West African descent.
The pronunciation and accents often differ a great deal, mainly due to the extremely heterogeneous mix of African languages present in the West Indies, but if written on paper or spoken slowly, the creole languages of the Caribbean are for the most part mutually intelligible with the creole languages of West Africa.[14]
The presence of repetitive phrases in Caribbean Creole such as su-su (gossip) and pyaa-pyaa (sickly) mirror the presence of such phrases in West African languages such as bam-bam, which means "complete" in the Yoruba language.
Repetitious phrases are also present in Nigerian Pidgin, such as koro-koro meaning "clear vision", yama-yama meaning "disgusting", and doti-doti meaning "garbage".
Furthermore, the use of words of West African origin in Jamaican Patois, such as unu and Bajan dialect wunna or una – West African Pidgin (meaning "you people", a word that comes from the Igbo word unu or unuwa also meaning "you people"), display some of the interesting similarities between the English pidgins and creoles of West Africa and the English pidgins and creoles of the West Indies, as does the presence of words and phrases that are identical in the languages on both sides of the Atlantic, such as Me a go tell dem (I'm going to tell them) and make we (let us).
A copula deh or dey is found in both Caribbean Creole and Nigerian Pidgin English.
The phrase We dey foh London would be understood by both a speaker of Creole and a speaker of Nigerian Pidgin to mean "We are in London" (although the Jamaican is more likely to say Wi de a London).
The word originates from the Igbo word di meaning the same thing and pronounced similarly: anu di na ofe (literally "meat is in pot") and anyi di na london (lit. "we are in London").
Other similarities, such as pikin (Nigerian Pidgin for "child") and pikney (used in islands like St.Vincent, Antigua and St. Kitts, akin to the standard-English pejorative/epithet pickaninny) and chook (Nigerian Pidgin for "poke" or "stab") which corresponds with the Trinidadian creole word juk, and also corresponds to chook used in other West Indian islands.[15]
Connection to Portuguese language[edit]
Being derived partly from the present day Edo/Delta area of Nigeria, there are still some words left over from the Portuguese language in pidgin English (Portuguese ships traded slaves from the Bight of Benin). For example, you sabi do am? means "do you know how to do it?". Sabi means "to know" or "to know how to", just as "to know" is saber in Portuguese.[16] (According to the monogenetic theory of pidgins, sabir was a basic word in Mediterranean Lingua Franca, brought to West Africa through Portuguese pidgin. An English cognate is savvy.) Also, pikin or "pickaninny" comes from the Portuguese words pequeno and pequenino, which mean "small" and "small child" respectively.[17]
Nigerian English[edit]
Similar to the Caribbean Creole situation, Nigerian Pidgin is mostly used in informal conversations. Nigerian Pidgin has no status as an official language. Nigerian English is used in politics, education, science, and media.[18] In Nigeria, English is acquired through formal education.[18] As English has been in contact with multiple different languages in Nigeria, Nigerian English has become much more prominent, and it is often referred to as a group of different sub-varieties.[18] Although there is not a formal description of Nigerian English, scholars agree that Nigerian English is a recognizable and unique variety of English.[18]
Phonology[edit]
Nigerian Pidgin, like many pidgins and creoles, has a simpler phonology than the superstrate language. It has 23 consonants, 7 vowels, and 2 tones.[19]
Consonants[edit]
Labial
Alveolar
Post-alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Labial-velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ŋ
Plosive
p
b
t
d
k
ɡ
kp
ɡb
Affricate
tʃ
dʒ
Tap
r
Fricative
f
v
s
z
ʃ
h
Approximant
l
j
w
Vowels[edit]
Front
Back
Close
i
u
High-mid
e
o
Low-mid
ɛ
ɔ
Open
a
Tones[edit]
Nigerian Pidgin has a high tone and a low tone. The high tone is written with an acute accent, and the low tone, though typically left unmarked, can be written with a grave accent.
See also[edit]
Nigeria portalLanguages portal
Krio
Pichinglis
Languages of Nigeria
References[edit]
^ Nigerian Pidgin at Ethnologue (26th ed., 2023) 
^ Faraclas (1996), Introduction.
^ Ofulue, Christine I.; Esizimetor, David O. "GUIDE TO STANDARD NAIJÁ ORTHOGRAPHY. An NLA Harmonized Writing System for Common Naijá Publications". IFRA-NIgeria - French Institute for Research in Africa. Retrieved 2017-02-06.
^ Esizimetor, D. O. (2009). What Orthography for Naijá? Paper delivered at the Conference on Naijá organised by the Institut Français de Recherche en Afrique (IFRA), July 07–10, 2009, University of Ibadan Conference Centre.
^ Fitimi, Prince; Ojitobome, Afinotan. "THE EFFECT OF THE NIGERIAN PIDGIN ENGLISH ON THE ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE OF UNIVERSITY STUDENTS IN NIGERIA. ACASE STUDY OF NATIONAL OPEN UNIVERSITY OF NIGERIA STUDENTS IN BENIN STUDY CENTRE". {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Language Contact Manchester". languagecontact.humanities.manchester.ac.uk. Retrieved 2018-07-17.
^ Gharib, Malaka (20 November 2018). "Why Prince Charles Said 'God Don Butta My Bread!' In Nigeria". NPR.
^ "BBC Pidgin service launched in Nigeria". 2017-08-21. Retrieved 2019-04-28.
^ "MANIAC | meaning in the Cambridge English Dictionary". back.carthousa.tk. Retrieved 2021-05-21.
^ "Language Contact Manchester".
^ Frances Ayenbi, Oti (2014-06-01). "Language regression in Nigeria". Éducation et sociétés plurilingues (36): 51–64. doi:10.4000/esp.136. ISSN 1127-266X.
^ Igboanusi, Herbert (February 2008). "Empowering Nigerian Pidgin: a challenge for status planning?". World Englishes. 27 (1): 68–82. doi:10.1111/j.1467-971X.2008.00536.x. ISSN 0883-2919. Retrieved 12 June 2022.
^ "Profound and total deafness in Owerri, Nigeria". whole.hoesubchoiconsbrigpa.tk. Retrieved 2021-05-21.
^ Salikoko Sangol Mufwene, Creole languages at the Encyclopædia Britannica
^ Emmaolu, Akinsanya. "THE EFFECT OF THE". {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
^ "Pidgin english origin - english pidgins include nigerian pidgin". meisten-verliebt.com (in Finnish). Retrieved 2021-05-21.
^ Faraclas (1996), p. 3.
^ a b c d Florence Agbo, Ogechi; Plag, Ingo (2020-12-11). "The Relationship of Nigerian English and Nigerian Pidgin in Nigeria: Evidence from Copula Constructions in Ice-Nigeria". Journal of Language Contact. 13 (2): 351–388. doi:10.1163/19552629-bja10023. ISSN 1877-1491. S2CID 226299218.
^ Faraclas (1996), pp. 248–249.
Bibliography[edit]
Faraclas, Nicholas (1996). "Nigerian Pidgin" (PDF). New York: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-02291-6.
Akhimien, Eronmonsele Pius (1 November 2004). "The use of 'How are you?' in Nigerian society". Journal of Pragmatics. 36 (11): 2055–2058. doi:10.1016/j.pragma.2004.02.003. ISSN 0378-2166. Archived from the original on 1 February 2013. Retrieved 13 June 2022.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)
Mazzoli, Maria (2013). Copulas in Nigerian Pidgin (PDF) (Doctoral Thesis). Università degli studi di Padova. hdl:11577/3422599.
Ihemere, Kelechukwu U. (31 December 2006). "A Basic Description and Analytic Treatment of Noun Clauses in Nigerian Pidgin" (PDF). Nordic Journal of African Studies. 15 (3): 296–313. doi:10.53228/njas.v15i3.29. ISSN 1459-9465. Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 June 2007. Retrieved 14 April 2007.
Shnukal, Anna; Marchese, Lynell (1 January 1983). "Creolization of Nigerian Pidgin English: A progress report". English World-Wide. 4 (1): 17–26. doi:10.1075/eww.4.1.03shn. ISSN 0172-8865. Retrieved 13 June 2022.
Ernest Edjeren. 2009. "Single Language: The Soul Of Nations' Prosperity"
External links[edit]
 Nigerian Pidgin  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
 Media related to Nigerian Pidgin at Wikimedia Commons
University of Puerto Rico, Nigerian Pidgin materials
A Dictionary of Nigerian English (circulation draft); Blench, Roger. 2005 (Internet Archive)
Introduction to Nigerian Pidgin (University of Hawaii)
vteEnglish-based creole languagesThe Caribbean and North America
Afro-Seminole
Anguilla
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Bocas del Toro
Cayman Islands
Grenada
Gullah
Guyana
Jamaica
Leeward Islands
Limón
Mosquito Coast
Montserrat
Rama Cay
Roatán
Saint Kitts
Samaná
San Andrés
Saint Vincent
Suriname
Tobago
Trinidad
Turks and Caicos Islands
Virgin Islands
Africa
Cameroonian
Ghanaian
Krio (Sierra Leone)
Liberian
Nigerian
Pichinglis (Equatorial Guinea)
Asia and the Pacific
Australian Aboriginal
Bonin Islands
Bislama (Vanuatu)
Hawaii
Manglish
Ngatikese
Pijin (Solomon Islands)
Pitcairn-Norfuk
Singlish
Tok Pisin
Torres Strait
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nigerian_Pidgin&oldid=1163143750"
Categories: English-based pidgins and creoles of AfricaKrio languageNigerian EnglishLanguages of NigeriaHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 26CS1 errors: missing periodicalArticles with Encyclopædia Britannica linksCS1 Finnish-language sources (fi)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles that may contain original research from December 2014All articles that may contain original researchArticles needing additional references from December 2014All articles needing additional referencesArticles with multiple maintenance issuesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2020All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2022CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknownCommons category link from Wikidata
 This page was last edited on 3 July 2023, at 06:10 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width