Success stories: See how we have helped Telstra | Fontech
 
Home
About
Success stories
Carrier
British Telecom
Telstra
Deutsche Telekom
Cosmote
Oi
SoftBank
Proximus
Enterprise
Vodafone
Wireless Gate
Yokohama
Solutions
Smart Connectivity Solutions 
Cloud Device Management 
Smart Devices
Contact Us
 
Select Page
  
 
 
Fontech helps Telstra build Australia’s largest WiFi network
Telstra uses WiFi to upgrade its value proposition
Telstra is Australia’s leading telecommunications and information services company. In 2014, the operator announced plans to create Australia’s largest WiFi network. Their vision was to create a better-connected future for the country.
 
Telstra decided to focus on delivering WiFi services in order to:
Offer customers a better connectivity experience
Deliver future capacity for the explosion of traffic expected
Differentiate itself from the competition
The project
Using our innovative technology, Telstra launched Telstra Air. It empowered broadband customers with compatible gateways to use their home data allowance at hotspots across Australia. In return, they just had to securely share a bit of their home broadband access. Soon, many mobile customers were also able to enjoy free WiFi connectivity on the move. And service was not limited to Australia: Customers could enjoy connectivity across millions of hotspots worldwide. Non-customers were also able to enjoy access to the network on a paid basis, creating a new source of revenue.
Reduced churn among customer base
Over 9k passes sold on a monthly basis
Over 1.3M Telstra Air customers
ACOMMS Innovation Award (Large Company) 
Find out how we can help you achieve your business goals
Contact us
 
Maps
Careers
About
Legal & Cookies
Support
Login
 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read MorePrivacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
 
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Non-necessary
Non-necessary
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
SAVE & ACCEPT