Our Work – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
Our WorkWe help everyone share in the sum of all knowledge.We are the people who keep knowledge free. There is an amazing community of people around the world that makes great projects like Wikipedia. We help them do that work. We take care of the technical infrastructure, the legal challenges, and the growing pains.
Host free knowledge projectsThe Wikimedia Foundation was established as a nonprofit in 2003 to give Wikipedia a permanent home. We now host 13 collaborative knowledge projects from Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, to Wikidata, a set of structured data, and beyond. We maintain the servers, build the software, and design the technology that keep these projects running.
Deliver grants for goodWe partner with Wikimedia communities around the world to provide them with the support they need to do great work. Last year we awarded over 9 million USD in grants to Wikimedia community members, affiliates and nonprofit organizations. We fund editathons, outreach efforts, events, and conferences. We help them get the word out for free knowledge.
Grow community around the worldWhen more people can access and contribute to free knowledge, the better that knowledge reflects the world. We are committed to helping grow and sustain a healthy community of over 220,000 people across 170 nations. From the community health initiative to ORES and our work in gender diversity, the Foundation is actively working to make our projects more inclusive.
Support education and learning worldwideWe help teachers and students of all ages access and use the full potential of Wikimedia projects for their learning objectives. Key pillars of our education work include promoting knowledge equity and teaching 21st century skills.
Partner for changeWorking with partners like Google, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and UNESCO, Wikimedia actively seeks new knowledge, closing systemic gaps in global understanding of language, culture, and identity.
Open the Knowledge“Open the Knowledge” is our call to everyone to promote radical knowledge equity, creating a living record of history, stories, and contexts for and by all people. It aims to make the Wikimedia movement more diverse, equitable, and inclusive.
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
 
 
Wikimania 2023 in Singapore centers on diversity, collaboration, and the future of free knowledge
Events Press Release Singapore Wikimania 
In its eighteenth edition, Wikimania, the flagship annual conference that celebrates Wikimedia projects like Wikipedia and the volunteers who make them possible, is set to take place in Singapore.
10 August 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI
Blog Post Equity Technology Wikipedia 
If there was a generative artificial intelligence system that could, on its own, write all the information contained in Wikipedia, would it be the same as Wikipedia today?
12 July 2023
By Selena Deckelmann 
Read more
Photo credits
 
Wikimania 2023 Singapore Banner
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Illustrated by Adien Gunarta and Naila Rahmah
CC0 1.0
 
AI Blog header 02
Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jim Henderson
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia Foundation Servers 2015-63
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Victor Grigas/Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Skrivstuga Art And Feminism Stockholm 09
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Wikimania 2016 - group photo
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Niccolò Caranti
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Club de Edición II mayo 2017
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Constanza Verón (WMAR)
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Katherine Maher and Ivan Martinez Mexican Culture Ministry partnership
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Zachary McCune
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
DEI Representation
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Basile Morin
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.