Irish language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Names
Toggle Names subsection
1.1In Irish
1.2In English
2History
3Status and policy
Toggle Status and policy subsection
3.1Ireland
3.1.1Gaeltacht
3.2Policy
3.2.1Official Languages Act 2003
3.2.2Official Languages Scheme 2019–2022
3.2.320-Year Strategy for the Irish Language 2010–2030
3.3Northern Ireland
3.4European Parliament
3.5Outside Ireland
4Usage
Toggle Usage subsection
4.1Daily Irish speakers in Gaeltacht areas between 2011 and 2016
5Dialects
Toggle Dialects subsection
5.1Connacht
5.2Munster
5.3Ulster
5.4Leinster
5.4.1The Pale
5.4.2General decline
5.5Urban use from the middle ages to the 19th century
5.6Modern urban usage
5.7Standardisation
6Phonology
7Syntax and morphology
Toggle Syntax and morphology subsection
7.1Initial mutations
8Orthography
Toggle Orthography subsection
8.1Spelling reform
9Sample text
10See also
11Notes
12References
Toggle References subsection
12.1Citations
12.2Bibliography
13External links
Toggle External links subsection
13.1Grammar and pronunciation
13.2Dictionaries
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Irish language
155 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛअंगिकाÆngliscАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीБългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschDolnoserbskiEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskFurlanGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngîХальмг한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаKernowekKiswahiliКомиKurdîКыргызчаLadinLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMaltiMāoriमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟMinangkabau閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄Монголမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsNedersaksies日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀPangasinanپنجابیPapiamentuپښتوПерем комиPicardPiemontèisTok PisinPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRumantschRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsSeelterskShqipSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaqbaylitТатарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVènetoVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükVõroWalonWest-Vlams吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Language native to Ireland
For other uses, see Irish language (disambiguation).
"Gaoidhealg" redirects here. For the shared literary form that was in use from the 13th to the 16th–18th century, see Classical Gaelic.
See also: Status of the Irish language
Irish[1][2][3]Standard Irish: GaeilgePronunciationConnacht Irish: [ˈɡeːlʲɟə]Munster Irish: [ˈɡeːl̪ˠən̠ʲ]Ulster Irish: [ˈɡeːlʲəc]RegionIrelandEthnicityIrishNative speakersL1: unknownPeople aged 3+ stating they could speak Irish "very well":(ROI, 2022) 195,029Daily users outside education system:(ROI, 2022) 71,968(NI, 2021) 43,557L2: unknownPeople aged 3+ stating they could speak Irish:(ROI, 2022) 1,873,997(NI, 2021) 228,600Language familyIndo-European
CelticInsular CelticGoidelicIrish[1][2][3]Early formsPrimitive Irish
Old Irish
Middle Irish
Early Modern Irish
Standard formsAn Caighdeán Oifigiúil (written only)Dialects
Connacht Irish
Leinster Irish †
Munster Irish
Newfoundland †
Ulster Irish
Writing systemLatin (Irish alphabet)Ogham (historically)Irish BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language inRepublic of Ireland[a]Northern Ireland[5]European UnionLanguage codesISO 639-1gaISO 639-2gleISO 639-3gleGlottologiris1253ELPIrishLinguasphere50-AAAProportion of respondents who said they could speak Irish in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland censuses of 2011Irish is classified as Definitely Endangered by the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger (2010)This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Irish (Standard Irish: Gaeilge), also known as Gaelic /ˈɡeɪlɪk/,[6][7][8] is a Goidelic language of the Insular Celtic branch of the Celtic language family, which is a part of the Indo-European language family.[7][1][3][9][6] Irish is indigenous to the island of Ireland[10] and was the population's first language until the 19th century, when English gradually became dominant, particularly in the last decades of the century.
Today, Irish is still commonly spoken as a first language in areas of Ireland collectively known as the Gaeltacht, in which only 2% of Ireland's population lived in 2016.[11]
It is also spoken by a larger group of habitual but non-traditional speakers, mostly in urban areas where the majority are second-language speakers.
The total number of persons (aged 3 and over) who claimed they could speak Irish in April 2022 was 1,873,997, representing 40% of respondents, but of these, 472,887 said they never spoke it, while a further 551,993 said they only spoke it within the education system.[12] Linguistic analysis of Irish speakers is therefore based primarily on the number of daily users in Ireland outside the education system, which in 2016 was 20,586 in the Gaeltacht and 53,217 outside it, totalling 73,803.[13] In 2021, in response to the Northern Ireland census, 43,557 said they spoke the language on a daily basis, 26,286 spoke it on a weekly basis, 47,153 spoke it less often than weekly, and 9,758 said they could speak Irish, but never spoke it.[14]
For most of recorded Irish history, Irish was the dominant language of the Irish people, who took it with them to other regions, such as Scotland and the Isle of Man, where Middle Irish gave rise to Scottish Gaelic and Manx. It was also, for a period, spoken widely across Canada, with an estimated 200,000–250,000 daily Canadian speakers of Irish in 1890.[15] On the island of Newfoundland, a unique dialect of Irish developed before falling out of use in the early 20th century.
With a writing system, Ogham, dating back to at least the 4th century AD, which was gradually replaced by Latin script since the 5th century AD, Irish has one of the oldest vernacular literatures in Western Europe. On the island, the language has three major dialects: Munster, Connacht and Ulster. All three have distinctions in their speech and orthography. There is also a "standard written form" devised by a parliamentary commission in the 1950s. The traditional Irish alphabet, a variant of the Latin alphabet with 18 letters, has been succeeded by the standard Latin alphabet (albeit with 7–8 letters used primarily in loanwords).
Irish has constitutional status as the national and first official language of the Republic of Ireland, and is also an official language of Northern Ireland and among the official languages of the European Union. The public body Foras na Gaeilge is responsible for the promotion of the language throughout the island. Irish has no regulatory body but the standard modern written form is guided by a parliamentary service and new vocabulary by a voluntary committee with university input.
Names[edit]
In Irish[edit]
In An Caighdeán Oifigiúil ("The Official [Written] Standard") the name of the language is Gaeilge, from the South Connacht form, spelled Gaedhilge prior the spelling reform of 1948, which was originally the genitive of Gaedhealg, the form used in Classical Gaelic.[16] The modern spelling results from the deletion of the silent ⟨dh⟩ in Gaedhilge. Older spellings include Gaoidhealg [ˈɡeːʝəlˠɡ] in Classical Gaelic and Goídelc [ˈɡoiðelˠɡ] in Old Irish. Goidelic, used to refer to the language family, is derived from the Old Irish term.
Endonyms of the language in the various modern Irish dialects include: Gaeilge [ˈɡeːlʲɟə] in Galway, Gaeilg/Gaeilic/Gaeilig [ˈɡeːlʲəc] in Mayo and Ulster, and Gaelainn/Gaoluinn [ˈɡeːl̪ˠən̠ʲ] in Munster, as well as Gaedhealaing in Waterford to reflect local realisation of word final /n̠ʲ/ as [ɲ].[17][18]
Gaeilge also has a wider meaning, including the Gaelic of Scotland and the Isle of Man, as well as of Ireland. When required by the context, these are distinguished as Gaeilge na hAlban, Gaeilge Mhanann and Gaeilge na hÉireann respectively.[19]
In English[edit]
In English (including Hiberno-English) the language is usually referred to as Irish, as well as Gaelic and Irish Gaelic.[20][21] The term Irish Gaelic may be seen when English speakers discuss the relationship between the three Goidelic languages (Irish, Scottish Gaelic and Manx).[22] Gaelic is a collective term for the Goidelic languages,[6][23][7][9][24] and when the context is clear it may be used without qualification to refer to each language individually. When the context is specific but unclear, the term may be qualified, as Irish Gaelic, Scottish Gaelic or Manx Gaelic. Historically the name "Erse" was also sometimes used in Scots and then in English to refer to Irish;[25] as well as Scottish Gaelic.
Goidelic is a synonym of Gaelic, used mainly in linguistic typology and historical linguistics. Goidelic and Brittonic together constitute the Insular Celtic languages.
History[edit]
Main article: History of the Irish language
Written Irish is first attested in Ogham inscriptions from the 4th century AD, a stage of the language known as Primitive Irish. These writings have been found throughout Ireland and the west coast of Great Britain. Primitive Irish underwent a change into Old Irish through the 5th century. Old Irish, dating from the 6th century, used the Latin alphabet and is attested primarily in marginalia to Latin manuscripts. During this time, the Irish language absorbed some Latin words, some via Old Welsh, including ecclesiastical terms: examples are easpag (bishop) from episcopus, and Domhnach (Sunday, from dominica).
By the 10th century, Old Irish had evolved into Middle Irish, which was spoken throughout Ireland, Isle of Man and parts of Scotland. It is the language of a large corpus of literature, including the Ulster Cycle. From the 12th century, Middle Irish began to evolve into modern Irish in Ireland, into Scottish Gaelic in Scotland, and into the Manx language in the Isle of Man.
Early Modern Irish, dating from the 13th century, was the basis of the literary language of both Ireland and Gaelic-speaking Scotland. Modern Irish, as attested in the work of such writers as Geoffrey Keating, may be said to date from the 17th century, and was the medium of popular literature from that time on.
From the 18th century on, the language lost ground in the east of the country. The reasons behind this shift were complex but came down to a number of factors:
Discouragement of its use by the Anglo-Irish administration.
The Catholic church's support of English over Irish.
The spread of bilingualism from the 1750s onwards.[26]
The distribution of the Irish language in 1871
The change was characterised by diglossia (two languages being used by the same community in different social and economic situations) and transitional bilingualism (monoglot Irish-speaking grandparents with bilingual children and monoglot English-speaking grandchildren). By the mid-18th century, English was becoming a language of the Catholic middle class, the Catholic Church and public intellectuals, especially in the east of the country. Increasingly, as the value of English became apparent, parents sanctioned the prohibition of Irish in schools.[27] Increasing interest in  emigrating to the United States and Canada was also a driver, as fluency in English allowed the new immigrants to get jobs in areas other than farming. An estimated one quarter to one third of immigrants during the Great Famine were Irish speakers.[28]
Irish was not marginal to Ireland's modernisation in the 19th century, as is often assumed. In the first half of the century there were still around three million people for whom Irish was the primary language, and their numbers alone made them a cultural and social force. Irish speakers often insisted on using the language in law courts (even when they knew English), and Irish was also common in commercial transactions. The language was heavily implicated in the "devotional revolution" which marked the standardisation of Catholic religious practice and was also widely used in a political context. Down to the time of the Great Famine and even afterwards, the language was in use by all classes, Irish being an urban as well as a rural language.[29]
This linguistic dynamism was reflected in the efforts of certain public intellectuals to counter the decline of the language. At the end of the 19th century, they launched the Gaelic revival in an attempt to encourage the learning and use of Irish, although few adult learners mastered the language.[30] The vehicle of the revival was the Gaelic League (Conradh na Gaeilge), and particular emphasis was placed on the folk tradition, which in Irish is particularly rich. Efforts were also made to develop journalism and a modern literature.
Although it has been noted that the Catholic Church played a role in the decline of the Irish language before the Gaelic Revival, the Protestant Church of Ireland also made only minor efforts to encourage use of Irish in a religious context. An Irish translation of the Old Testament by Leinsterman Muircheartach Ó Cíonga, commissioned by Bishop Bedell, was published after 1685 along with a translation of the New Testament. Otherwise, Anglicisation was seen as synonymous with 'civilising' the native Irish. Currently, modern day Irish speakers in the church are pushing for language revival.[31]
It has been estimated that there were around 800,000 monoglot Irish speakers in 1800, which dropped to 320,000 by the end of the famine, and under 17,000 by 1911.[32] Seán Ó hEinirí, of Cill Ghallagáin, County Mayo, who died 26 July 1998, was possibly the last monolingual Irish speaker.
Status and policy[edit]
Main article: Status of the Irish language
Ireland[edit]
Irish is recognised by the Constitution of Ireland as the national and first official language of Ireland (English being the other official language). Despite this, almost all government business and legislative debate is conducted in English.[33]
In 1938, the founder of Conradh na Gaeilge (Gaelic League), Douglas Hyde, was inaugurated as the first President of Ireland. The record of his delivering his inaugural Declaration of Office in Roscommon Irish is one of only a few recordings of that dialect.[34][35][36][37]
Bilingual sign in Grafton Street, Dublin
In the 2016 census, 10.5% of respondents stated that they spoke Irish, either daily or weekly, while over 70,000 people (4.2%) speak it as a habitual daily means of communication.[38]
From the foundation of the Irish Free State in 1922 (see History of the Republic of Ireland), new appointees to the Civil Service of the Republic of Ireland, including postal workers, tax collectors, agricultural inspectors, Garda Síochána (police), etc., were required to have some proficiency in Irish. By law, a Garda who was addressed in Irish had to respond in Irish as well.[39]
In 1974, in part through the actions of protest organisations like the Language Freedom Movement, the requirement for entrance to the public service was changed to proficiency in just one official language.
Nevertheless, Irish remains a required subject of study in all schools in the Republic that receive public money (see Education in the Republic of Ireland). Teachers in primary schools must also pass a compulsory examination called Scrúdú Cáilíochta sa Ghaeilge.  As of 2005, Garda Síochána recruits need a pass in Leaving Certificate Irish or English, and receive lessons in Irish during their two years of training. Official documents of the Irish government must be published in both Irish and English or Irish alone (in accordance with the Official Languages Act 2003, enforced by An Coimisinéir Teanga, the Irish language ombudsman).
The National University of Ireland requires all students wishing to embark on a degree course in the NUI federal system to pass the subject of Irish in the Leaving Certificate or GCE/GCSE examinations.[40] Exemptions are made from this requirement for students who were born or completed primary education outside of Ireland, and students diagnosed with dyslexia.
NUI Galway is required to appoint people who are competent in the Irish language, as long as they are also competent in all other aspects of the vacancy to which they are appointed. This requirement is laid down by the University College Galway Act, 1929 (Section 3).[41] In 2016, the university faced controversy when it announced the appointment of a president who did not speak Irish. Misneach staged protests against this decision.  The following year the university announced that Ciarán Ó hÓgartaigh, a fluent Irish speaker, would be its 13th president.
Bilingual road signs in Creggs, County Galway
For a number of years there has been vigorous debate in political, academic and other circles about the failure of most students in English-medium schools to achieve competence in Irish, even after fourteen years of teaching as one of the three main subjects.[42][43][44] The concomitant decline in the number of traditional native speakers has also been a cause of great concern.[45][46][47][48]
In 2007, filmmaker Manchán Magan found few Irish speakers in Dublin, and faced incredulity when trying to get by speaking only Irish in Dublin. He was unable to accomplish some everyday tasks, as portrayed in his documentary No Béarla.[49]
There is, however, a growing body of Irish speakers in urban areas, particularly in Dublin. Many have been educated in schools in which Irish is the language of instruction. Such schools are known as Gaelscoileanna at primary level. These Irish-medium schools send a much higher[clarification needed] proportion of pupils on to third-level education than do English-medium schools. In 2009, a paper suggested that within a generation, non-Gaeltacht habitual users of Irish might typically be members of an urban, middle class, and highly educated minority.[50]
Parliamentary legislation is supposed to be available in both Irish and English but is frequently only available in English. This is notwithstanding that Article 25.4 of the Constitution of Ireland requires that an "official translation" of any law in one official language be provided immediately in the other official language, if not already passed in both official languages.[4]
In November 2016, RTÉ reported that over 2.3 million people worldwide were learning Irish through the Duolingo app.[51] Irish president Michael Higgins officially honoured several volunteer translators for developing the Irish edition, and said the push for Irish language rights remains an "unfinished project".[52]
Gaeltacht[edit]
Main article: Gaeltacht
The percentage of respondents who said they spoke Irish daily outside the education system in the 2011 census in the State.to be updated
There are rural areas of Ireland where Irish is still spoken daily to some extent as a first language. These regions are known individually and collectively as the Gaeltacht (plural Gaeltachtaí). While the fluent Irish speakers of these areas, whose numbers have been estimated at 20–30,000,[53] are a minority of the total number of fluent Irish speakers, they represent a higher concentration of Irish speakers than other parts of the country and it is only in Gaeltacht areas that Irish continues to be spoken as a community vernacular to some extent.
According to data compiled by the Department of Tourism, Culture, Arts, Gaeltacht, Sport and Media, only 1/4 of households in Gaeltacht areas are fluent in Irish. The author of a detailed analysis of the survey, Donncha Ó hÉallaithe of the Galway-Mayo Institute of Technology, described the Irish language policy followed by Irish governments as a "complete and absolute disaster". The Irish Times, referring to his analysis published in the Irish language newspaper Foinse, quoted him as follows: "It is an absolute indictment of successive Irish Governments that at the foundation of the Irish State there were 250,000 fluent Irish speakers living in Irish-speaking or semi Irish-speaking areas, but the number now is between 20,000 and 30,000."[53]
In the 1920s, when the Irish Free State was founded, Irish was still a vernacular in some western coastal areas.[54] In the 1930s, areas where more than 25% of the population spoke Irish were classified as Gaeltacht. Today, the strongest Gaeltacht areas, numerically and socially, are those of South Connemara, the west of the Dingle Peninsula, and northwest Donegal, where many residents still use Irish as their primary language. These areas are often referred to as the Fíor-Ghaeltacht (true Gaeltacht), a term originally officially applied to areas where over 50% of the population spoke Irish.
There are larger Gaeltacht regions in County Galway (Contae na Gaillimhe), including Connemara (Conamara), the Aran Islands (Oileáin Árann), Carraroe (An Cheathrú Rua) and Spiddal (An Spidéal), on the west coast of County Donegal (Contae Dhún na nGall), and on the Dingle (Corca Dhuibhne) and Iveragh Peninsulas (Uibh Rathach) in County Kerry (Contae Chiarraí).
Smaller ones also exist in counties Mayo (Contae Mhaigh Eo), Meath (Contae na Mí), Waterford (Gaeltacht na nDéise, Contae Phort Láirge), and Cork (Contae Chorcaí). Gweedore (Gaoth Dobhair), County Donegal, is the largest Gaeltacht parish in Ireland. Irish language summer colleges in the Gaeltacht are attended by tens of thousands of teenagers annually. Students live with Gaeltacht families, attend classes, participate in sports, go to céilithe and are obliged to speak Irish. All aspects of Irish culture and tradition are encouraged.
Policy[edit]
Official Languages Act 2003[edit]
Main article: Official Languages Act 2003
The Act was passed 14 July 2003 with the main purpose of improving the amount and quality of public services delivered in Irish by the government and other public bodies.[55] Compliance with the Act is monitored by the An Coimisinéir Teanga (Irish Language Commissioner) which was established in 2004[56] and any complaints or concerns pertaining to the Act are brought to them.[55] There are 35 sections included in the Act all detailing different aspects of the use of Irish in official documentation and communication. Included in these sections are subjects such as Irish language use in official courts, official publications, and placenames.[57] The Act was recently amended in December 2019 in order to strengthen the already preexisting legislation.[58] All changes made took into account data collected from online surveys and written submissions.[59]
Official Languages Scheme 2019–2022[edit]
The Official Languages Scheme was enacted 1 July 2019 and is an 18-page document that adheres to the guidelines of the Official Languages Act 2003.[60] The purpose of the Scheme is to provide services through the mediums of Irish and/or English. According to the Department of the Taoiseach, it is meant to "develop a sustainable economy and a successful society, to pursue Ireland's interests abroad, to implement the Government's Programme and to build a better future for Ireland and all her citizens."[61]
20-Year Strategy for the Irish Language 2010–2030[edit]
Main article: 20-Year Strategy for the Irish Language 2010–2030
The Strategy was produced on 21 December 2010 and will stay in action until 2030; it aims to target language vitality and revitalization of the Irish language.[62] The 30-page document published by the Government of Ireland details the objectives it plans to work towards in an attempt to preserve and promote both the Irish language and the Gaeltacht. It is divided into four separate phases with the intention of improving 9 main areas of action including:
"Education"
"The Gaeltacht"
"Family Transmission of the Language – Early Intervention"
"Administration, Services and Community"
"Media and Technology"
"Dictionaries"
"Legislation and Status"
"Economic Life"
"Cross-cutting Initiatives"[63]
The general goal for this strategy is to increase the amount of speakers from 83,000 to 250,000 by the end of its run.[64]
Northern Ireland[edit]
Main article: Irish language in Northern Ireland
A sign for the Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure in Northern Ireland, in English, Irish and Ulster Scots.
Before the partition of Ireland in 1921, Irish was recognised as a school subject and as "Celtic" in some third level institutions. Between 1921 and 1972, Northern Ireland had devolved government. During those years the political party holding power in the Stormont Parliament, the Ulster Unionist Party (UUP), was hostile to the language. The context of this hostility was the use of the language by nationalists.[65] In broadcasting, there was an exclusion on the reporting of minority cultural issues, and Irish was excluded from radio and television for almost the first fifty years of the previous devolved government.[66] After the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, the language gradually received a degree of formal recognition in Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom,[67] and then, in 2003, by the British government's ratification in respect of the language of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. In the 2006 St Andrews Agreement the British government promised to enact legislation to promote the language[68] and in 2022 it approved legislation to recognise Irish as an official language alongside English. The bill received royal assent on 6 December 2022.[69]
The Irish language has often been used as a bargaining chip during government formation in Northern Ireland, prompting protests from organisations and groups such as An Dream Dearg.[70]
European Parliament[edit]
Irish became an official language of the EU on 1 January 2007, meaning that MEPs with Irish fluency can now speak the language in the European Parliament and at committees, although in the case of the latter they have to give prior notice to a simultaneous interpreter in order to ensure that what they say can be interpreted into other languages.
While an official language of the European Union, only co-decision regulations were available until 2022, due to a five-year derogation, requested by the Irish Government when negotiating the language's new official status. The Irish government had committed itself to train the necessary number of translators and interpreters and to bear the related costs.[71] This derogation ultimately came to an end on 1 January 2022, making Irish a fully recognised EU language for the first time in the state's history.[72]
Before Irish became an official language it was afforded the status of treaty language and only the highest-level documents of the EU were made available in Irish.
Outside Ireland[edit]
Main articles: Irish language outside Ireland and Irish language in Newfoundland
The Irish language was carried abroad in the modern period by a vast diaspora, chiefly to Great Britain and North America, but also to Australia, New Zealand and Argentina.
The first large movements began in the 17th century, largely as a result of the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland, which saw many Irish sent to the West Indies. Irish emigration to the United States was well established by the 18th century, and was reinforced in the 1840s by thousands fleeing from the Famine. This flight also affected Britain. Up until that time most emigrants spoke Irish as their first language, though English was establishing itself as the primary language. Irish speakers had first arrived in Australia in the late 18th century as convicts and soldiers, and many Irish-speaking settlers followed, particularly in the 1860s. New Zealand also received some of this influx. Argentina was the only non-English-speaking country to receive large numbers of Irish emigrants, and there were few Irish speakers among them.
Relatively few of the emigrants were literate in Irish, but manuscripts in the language were brought to both Australia and the United States, and it was in the United States that the first newspaper to make significant use of Irish was established: An Gaodhal. In Australia, too, the language found its way into print. The Gaelic revival, which started in Ireland in the 1890s, found a response abroad, with branches of Conradh na Gaeilge being established in all the countries to which Irish speakers had emigrated.
The decline of Irish in Ireland and a slowing of emigration helped to ensure a decline in the language abroad, along with natural attrition in the host countries. Despite this, small groups of enthusiasts continued to learn and cultivate Irish in diaspora countries and elsewhere, a trend which strengthened in the second half of the 20th century. Today the language is taught at tertiary level in North America, Australia and Europe, and Irish speakers outside Ireland contribute to journalism and literature in the language. There are significant Irish-speaking networks in the United States and Canada;[73] figures released for the period 2006–2008 show that 22,279 Irish Americans claimed to speak Irish at home.[74]
The Irish language is also one of the languages of the Celtic League, a non-governmental organisation that promotes self-determination, Celtic identity and culture in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Brittany, Cornwall and the Isle of Man, known collectively as the Celtic nations.
Irish was spoken as a community language until the early 20th century on the island of Newfoundland, in a form known as Newfoundland Irish.[75] Certain Irish vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation features are still used in modern Newfoundland English.[76]
Usage[edit]
The 2016 census data shows:The total number of people who answered 'yes' to being able to speak Irish in April 2016 was 1,761,420, a slight decrease (0.7 per cent) on the 2011 figure of 1,774,437. This represents 39.8 per cent of respondents compared with 41.4 in 2011... Of the 73,803 daily Irish speakers (outside the education system), 20,586 (27.9%) lived in Gaeltacht areas.[77]
Daily Irish speakers in Gaeltacht areas between 2011 and 2016[edit]
Gaeltacht Area
2011
2016
Change 2011/2016
Change 2011/2016 (%)
County Cork
982
872
 110
 11.2%
County Donegal
7,047
5,929
 1,118
 15.9%
Galway City
636
647
 11
 1.6%
County Galway
10,085
9,445
 640
 6.3%
County Kerry
2,501
2,049
 452
 18.1%
County Mayo
1,172
895
 277
 23.6%
County Meath
314
283
 31
 9.9%
County Waterford
438
467
 29
 6.6%
All Gaeltacht Areas
23,175
20,586
 2,589
 11.2%
Source:[78]
In 1996, the 3 electoral divisions in the State where Irish had the most daily speakers were An Turloch (91%+), Scainimh (89%+), Min an Chladaigh (88%+).[79]
Dialects[edit]
Irish is represented by several traditional dialects and by various varieties of "urban" Irish. The latter have acquired lives of their own and a growing number of native speakers. Differences between the dialects make themselves felt in stress, intonation, vocabulary and structural features.
Roughly speaking, the three major dialect areas which survive coincide roughly with the provinces of Connacht (Cúige Chonnacht), Munster (Cúige Mumhan) and Ulster (Cúige Uladh). Records of some dialects of Leinster (Cúige Laighean) were made by the Irish Folklore Commission and others.[80] Newfoundland, in eastern Canada, had a form of Irish derived from the Munster Irish of the later 18th century (see Newfoundland Irish).
Connacht[edit]
Main article: Connacht Irish
Historically, Connacht Irish represents the westernmost remnant of a dialect area which once stretched from east to west across the centre of Ireland. The strongest dialect of Connacht Irish is to be found in Connemara and the Aran Islands. Much closer to the larger Connacht Gaeltacht is the dialect spoken in the smaller region on the border between Galway (Gaillimh) and Mayo (Maigh Eo). There are a number of differences between the popular South Connemara form of Irish, the Mid-Connacht/Joyce Country form (on the border between Mayo and Galway) and the Achill and Erris forms in the north of the province.
Features in Connacht Irish differing from the official standard include a preference for verbal nouns ending in -achan, e.g. lagachan instead of lagú, "weakening". The non-standard pronunciation of the Gaeltacht Cois Fharraige area with lengthened vowels and heavily reduced endings gives it a distinct sound. Distinguishing features of Connacht and Ulster dialect include the pronunciation of word-final /w/ as [w], rather than as [vˠ] in Munster. For example, sliabh ("mountain") is pronounced [ʃlʲiəw] in Connacht and Ulster as opposed to [ʃlʲiəβ] in the south. In addition Connacht and Ulster speakers tend to include the "we" pronoun rather than use the standard compound form used in Munster, e.g. bhí muid is used for "we were" instead of bhíomar.
As in Munster Irish, some short vowels are lengthened and others diphthongised before ⟨ll, m, nn, rr, rd⟩, in monosyllabic words and in the stressed syllable of multisyllabic words where the syllable is followed by a consonant. This can be seen in ceann [cɑːn̪ˠ] "head", cam [kɑːmˠ] "crooked", gearr [ɟɑːɾˠ] "short", ord [ouɾˠd̪ˠ] "sledgehammer", gall [gɑːl̪ˠ] "foreigner, non-Gael", iontas [iːn̪ˠt̪ˠəsˠ] "a wonder, a marvel", etc. The form ⟨(a)ibh⟩, when occurring at the end of words like 'agaibh', tends to be pronounced as [iː].
In South Connemara, for example, there is a tendency to replace word-final /vʲ/ with /bʲ/, in word such as sibh, libh and dóibh (pronounced respectively as "shiv," "liv" and "dófa" in the other areas). This placing of the B-sound is also present at the end of words ending in vowels, such as acu ([ˈakəbˠ]) and leo ([lʲoːbˠ]). There is also a tendency to omit /g/ in agam, agat and againn, a characteristic also of other Connacht dialects. All these pronunciations are distinctively regional.
The pronunciation prevalent in the Joyce Country (the area around Lough Corrib and Lough Mask) is quite similar to that of South Connemara, with a similar approach to the words agam, agat and againn and a similar approach to pronunciation of vowels and consonants but there are noticeable differences in vocabulary, with certain words such as doiligh (difficult) and foscailte being preferred to the more usual deacair and oscailte. Another interesting aspect of this sub-dialect is that almost all vowels at the end of words tend to be pronounced as [iː]: eile (other), cosa (feet) and déanta (done) tend to be pronounced as eilí, cosaí and déantaí respectively.
The northern Mayo dialect of Erris (Iorras) and Achill (Acaill) is in grammar and morphology essentially a Connacht dialect but shows some similarities to Ulster Irish due to large-scale immigration of dispossessed people following the Plantation of Ulster. For example, words ending -⟨bh, mh⟩ have a much softer sound, with a tendency to terminate words such as leo and dóibh with ⟨f⟩, giving leofa and dófa respectively. In addition to a vocabulary typical of other area of Connacht, one also finds Ulster words like amharc (meaning "to look"), nimhneach (painful or sore), druid (close), mothaigh (hear), doiligh (difficult), úr (new), and tig le (to be able to – i.e. a form similar to féidir).
Irish President Douglas Hyde was possibly one of the last speakers of the Roscommon dialect of Irish.[35]
Munster[edit]
Main article: Munster Irish
Munster Irish is the dialect spoken in the Gaeltacht areas of the counties of Cork (Contae Chorcaí), Kerry (Contae Chiarraí), and Waterford (Contae Phort Láirge). The Gaeltacht areas of Cork can be found in Cape Clear Island (Oileán Chléire) and Muskerry (Múscraí); those of Kerry lie in Corca Dhuibhne and Iveragh Peninsula; and those of Waterford in Ring (An Rinn) and Old Parish (An Sean Phobal), both of which together form Gaeltacht na nDéise. Of the three counties, the Irish spoken in Cork and Kerry is quite similar while that of Waterford is more distinct.
Some typical features of Munster Irish are:
The use of synthetic verbs in parallel with a pronominal subject system, thus "I must" is caithfead/caithfidh mé in Munster, while other dialects prefer caithfidh mé (mé means "I"). "I was and you were" is Bhíos agus bhís/Bhí mé agus bhí tú in Munster but more commonly Bhí mé agus bhí tú in other dialects. These are strong tendencies, and the personal forms bhíos etc. are used in the West and North, particularly when the words are last in the clause.
Use of independent/dependent forms of verbs that are not included in the Standard. For example, "I see" in Munster is chím, which is the independent form – Ulster Irish also uses a similar form, tchím, whereas "I do not see" is ní fheicim, feicim being the dependent form, which is used after particles such as ní ("not"). Chím is replaced by feicim in the Standard. Similarly, the traditional form preserved in Munster bheirim "I give"/ní thugaim is tugaim/ní thugaim in the Standard; gheibhim I get/ní bhfaighim is faighim/ní bhfaighim.
When before ⟨ll, m, nn, rr, rd⟩ and so on, in monosyllabic words and in the stressed syllable of multisyllabic words where the syllable is followed by a consonant, some short vowels are lengthened while others are diphthongised, in ceann [cɑun̪ˠ] "head", cam [kɑumˠ] "crooked", gearr [ɟɑːɾˠ] "short", ord [oːɾˠd̪ˠ] "sledgehammer", gall [gɑul̪ˠ] "foreigner, non-Gael", iontas [uːn̪ˠt̪ˠəsˠ] "a wonder, a marvel", compánach [kəumˠˈpˠɑːnˠəx] "companion, mate", etc.
A copular construction involving ea "it" is frequently used. Thus "I am an Irish person" can be said is Éireannach mé and Éireannach is ea mé in Munster; there is a subtle difference in meaning, however, the first choice being a simple statement of fact, while the second brings emphasis onto the word Éireannach. In effect the construction is a type of "fronting".
Both masculine and feminine words are subject to lenition after insan (sa/san) "in the", den "of the" and don "to/for the" : sa tsiopa, "in the shop", compared to the Standard sa siopa (the Standard lenites only feminine nouns in the dative in these cases).
Eclipsis of ⟨f⟩ after sa: sa bhfeirm, "in the farm", instead of san fheirm.
Eclipsis of ⟨t⟩ and ⟨d⟩ after preposition + singular article, with all prepositions except after insan, den and don: ar an dtigh "on the house", ag an ndoras "at the door".
Stress is generally on the second syllable of a word when the first syllable contains a short vowel, and the second syllable contains a long vowel or diphthong, or is -⟨(e)ach⟩, e.g. Ciarán is pronounced [ciəˈɾˠaːn̪ˠ] opposed to [ˈciəɾˠaːn̪ˠ] in Connacht and Ulster.
Ulster[edit]
Main article: Ulster Irish
Ulster Irish is the dialect spoken in the Gaeltacht regions of Donegal. These regions contain all of Ulster's communities where Irish has been spoken in an unbroken line back to when the language was the dominant language of Ireland. The Irish-speaking communities in other parts of Ulster are a result of language revival – English-speaking families deciding to learn Irish. Census data shows that 4,130 people speak it at home.
Linguistically, the most important of the Ulster dialects today is that which is spoken, with slight differences, in both Gweedore (Gaoth Dobhair = Inlet of Streaming Water) and The Rosses (na Rossa).
Ulster Irish sounds quite different from the other two main dialects. It shares several features with southern dialects of Scottish Gaelic and Manx, as well as having many characteristic words and shades of meanings. However, since the demise of those Irish dialects spoken natively in what is today Northern Ireland, it is probably an exaggeration to see present-day Ulster Irish as an intermediary form between Scottish Gaelic and the southern and western dialects of Irish. Northern Scottish Gaelic has many non-Ulster features in common with Munster Irish.
One noticeable trait of Ulster Irish, Scots Gaelic and Manx is the use of the negative particle cha(n) in place of the Munster and Connacht ní. Though southern Donegal Irish tends to use ní more than cha(n), cha(n) has almost ousted ní in northernmost dialects (e.g. Rosguill and Tory Island), though even in these areas níl "is not" is more common than chan fhuil or cha bhfuil.[81][82] Another noticeable trait is the pronunciation of the first person singular verb ending -(a)im as -(e)am, also common to Man and Scotland (Munster/Connacht siúlaim "I walk", Ulster siúlam).
Leinster[edit]
Down to the early 19th century and even later, Irish was spoken in all twelve counties of Leinster. The evidence furnished by placenames, literary sources and recorded speech indicates that there was no Leinster dialect as such. Instead, the main dialect used in the province was represented by a broad central belt stretching from west Connacht eastwards to the Liffey estuary and southwards to Wexford, though with many local variations. Two smaller dialects were represented by the Ulster speech of counties Meath and Louth, which extended as far south as the Boyne valley, and a Munster dialect found in Kilkenny and south Laois.
The main dialect had characteristics which survive today only in the Irish of Connacht. It typically placed the stress on the first syllable of a word, and showed a preference (found in placenames) for the pronunciation ⟨cr⟩ where the standard spelling is ⟨cn⟩. The word cnoc (hill) would therefore be pronounced croc. Examples are the placenames Crooksling (Cnoc Slinne) in County Dublin and Crukeen (Cnoicín) in Carlow. East Leinster showed the same diphthongisation or vowel lengthening as in Munster and Connacht Irish in words like poll (hole), cill (monastery), coill (wood), ceann (head), cam (crooked) and dream (crowd). A feature of the dialect was the pronunciation of ⟨ao⟩, which generally became [eː] in east Leinster (as in Munster), and [iː] in the west (as in Connacht).[83]
Early evidence regarding colloquial Irish in east Leinster is found in The Fyrst Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge (1547), by the English physician and traveller Andrew Borde.[84] The illustrative phrases he uses include the following:
English
Leinster Irish
Anglicised spelling
Irish spelling
How are you?
Kanys stato?
[Canas 'tá tú?]
I am well, thank you
Tam a goomah gramahagood.
[Tá mé go maith, go raibh maith agat.]
Sir, can you speak Irish?
Sor, woll galow oket?
[Sir, 'bhfuil Gaeilig [Gaela'] agat?]
Wife, give me bread!
Benytee, toor haran!
[A bhean an tí, tabhair arán!]
How far is it to Waterford?
Gath haad o showh go part laarg?.
[Gá fhad as [a] seo go Port Láirge?]
It is one a twenty mile.
Myle hewryht.
[Míle a haon ar fhichid.]
When shall I go to sleep, wife?
Gah hon rah moyd holow?
[Gathain a rachamaoid a chodladh?]
The Pale[edit]
The Pale – According to Statute of 1488
The Pale (An Pháil) was an area around late medieval Dublin under the control of the English government. By the late 15th century it consisted of an area along the coast from Dalkey, south of Dublin, to the garrison town of Dundalk, with an inland boundary encompassing Naas and Leixlip in the Earldom of Kildare and Trim and Kells in County Meath to the north. In this area of "Englyshe tunge" English had never actually been a dominant language – and was moreover a relatively late comer; the first colonisers were Normans who spoke Norman French, and before these Norse. The Irish language had always been the language of the bulk of the population. An English official remarked of the Pale in 1515 that "all the common people of the said half counties that obeyeth the King's laws, for the most part be of Irish birth, of Irish habit and of Irish language".[85]
With the strengthening of English cultural and political control, language change began to occur but this did not become clearly evident until the 18th century. Even then, in the decennial period 1771–81, the percentage of Irish speakers in Meath was at least 41%. By 1851 this had fallen to less than 3%.[86]
General decline[edit]
English expanded strongly in Leinster in the 18th century but Irish speakers were still numerous. In the decennial period 1771–81 certain counties had estimated percentages of Irish speakers as follows (though the estimates are likely to be too low):[86]
Kilkenny 57%
Louth 57%
Longford 22%
Westmeath 17%
The language saw its most rapid initial decline in counties Dublin, Kildare, Laois, Wexford, and Wicklow. In recent years, County Wicklow has been noted as having the lowest percentage of Irish speakers of any county in Ireland, with only 0.14% of its population claiming to have passable knowledge of the language.[87] The proportion of Irish-speaking children in Leinster went down as follows: 17% in the 1700s, 11% in the 1800s, 3% in the 1830s, and virtually none in the 1860s.[88] The Irish census of 1851 showed that there were still a number of older speakers in County Dublin.[86] Sound recordings were made between 1928 and 1931 of some of the last speakers in Omeath, County Louth (now available in digital form).[89] The last known traditional native speaker in Omeath, and in Leinster as a whole, was Annie O'Hanlon (née Dobbin), who died in 1960.[27] Her dialect was, in fact, a branch of the Irish of south-east Ulster.[90]
Urban use from the middle ages to the 19th century[edit]
Irish was spoken as a community language in Irish towns and cities down to the 19th century. In the 16th and 17th centuries it was widespread even in Dublin and the Pale. The English administrator William Gerard (1518–1581) commented as follows: "All English, and the most part with delight, even in Dublin, speak Irish,"[91] while the Old English historian Richard Stanihurst (1547–1618) lamented that "When their posterity became not altogether so wary in keeping, as their ancestors were valiant in conquering, the Irish language was free dennized in the English Pale: this canker took such deep root, as the body that before was whole and sound, was by little and little festered, and in manner wholly putrified".[92]
The Irish of Dublin, situated as it was between the east Ulster dialect of Meath and Louth to the north and the Leinster-Connacht dialect further south, may have reflected the characteristics of both in phonology and grammar. In County Dublin itself the general rule was to place the stress on the initial vowel of words. With time it appears that the forms of the dative case took over the other case endings in the plural (a tendency found to a lesser extent in other dialects). In a letter written in Dublin in 1691 we find such examples as the following: gnóthuimh (accusative case, the standard form being gnóthaí), tíorthuibh (accusative case, the standard form being tíortha) and leithscéalaibh (genitive case, the standard form being leithscéalta).[93]
English authorities of the Cromwellian period, aware that Irish was widely spoken in Dublin, arranged for its official use. In 1655 several local dignitaries were ordered to oversee a lecture in Irish to be given in Dublin. In March 1656 a converted Catholic priest, Séamas Corcy, was appointed to preach in Irish at Bride's parish every Sunday, and was also ordered to preach at Drogheda and Athy.[94] In 1657 the English colonists in Dublin presented a petition to the Municipal Council complaining that in Dublin itself "there is Irish commonly and usually spoken".[95]
There is contemporary evidence of the use of Irish in other urban areas at the time. In 1657 it was found necessary to have an Oath of Abjuration (rejecting the authority of the Pope) read in Irish in Cork so that people could understand it.[96]
Irish was sufficiently strong in early 18th century Dublin to be the language of a coterie of poets and scribes led by Seán and Tadhg Ó Neachtain, both poets of note.[97] Scribal activity in Irish persisted in Dublin right through the 18th century. An outstanding example was Muiris Ó Gormáin (Maurice Gorman), a prolific producer of manuscripts who advertised his services (in English) in Faulkner's Dublin Journal.[98] There were still an appreciable number of Irish speakers in County Dublin at the time of the 1851 census.[99]
In other urban centres the descendants of medieval Anglo-Norman settlers, the so-called Old English, were Irish-speaking or bilingual by the 16th century.[100] The English administrator and traveller Fynes Moryson, writing in the last years of the 16th century, said that "the English Irish and the very citizens (excepting those of Dublin where the lord deputy resides) though they could speak English as well as we, yet commonly speak Irish among themselves, and were hardly induced by our familiar conversation to speak English with us".[101] In Galway, a city dominated by Old English merchants and loyal to the Crown up to the Irish Confederate Wars (1641–1653), the use of the Irish language had already provoked the passing of an Act of Henry VIII (1536), ordaining as follows:
Item, that every inhabitant within oure said towne [Galway] endeavour themselfes to speake English, and to use themselfes after the English facon; and, speciallye, that you, and every one of you, doe put your children to scole, to lerne to speke English...[102]
The demise of native cultural institutions in the seventeenth century saw the social prestige of Irish diminish, and the gradual Anglicisation of the middle classes followed.[103] The census of 1851 showed, however, that the towns and cities of Munster still had significant Irish-speaking populations. Much earlier, in 1819, James McQuige, a veteran Methodist lay preacher in Irish, wrote: "In some of the largest southern towns, Cork, Kinsale and even the Protestant town of Bandon, provisions are sold in the markets, and cried in the streets, in Irish".[104] Irish speakers constituted over 40% of the population of Cork even in 1851.[105]
Modern urban usage[edit]
The late 18th and 19th centuries saw a reduction in the number of Dublin's Irish speakers, in keeping with the trend elsewhere. This continued until the end of the 19th century, when the Gaelic revival saw the creation of a strong Irish–speaking network, typically united by various branches of the Conradh na Gaeilge, and accompanied by renewed literary activity.[106] By the 1930s Dublin had a lively literary life in Irish.[107]
Urban Irish has been the beneficiary, from the last decades of the 20th century, of a rapidly expanding system of Gaelscoileanna, teaching entirely through Irish. As of 2019 there are 37 such primary schools in Dublin alone.[108]
It has been suggested that Ireland's towns and cities are acquiring a critical mass of Irish speakers, reflected in the expansion of Irish language media.[109] Many are younger speakers who, after encountering Irish at school, made an effort to acquire fluency, while others have been educated through Irish and some have been raised with Irish. Those from an English-speaking background are now often described as nuachainteoirí ("new speakers") and use whatever opportunities are available (festivals, "pop-up" events) to practise or improve their Irish.[110]
It has been suggested that the comparative standard is still the Irish of the Gaeltacht,[111] but other evidence suggests that young urban speakers take pride in having their own distinctive variety of the language.[112] A comparison of traditional Irish and urban Irish shows that the distinction between broad and slender consonants, which is fundamental to Irish phonology and grammar, is not fully or consistently observed in urban Irish. This and other changes make it possible that urban Irish will become a new dialect or even, over a long period, develop into a creole (i.e. a new language) distinct from Gaeltacht Irish.[109] It has also been argued that there is a certain elitism among Irish speakers, with most respect being given to the Irish of native Gaeltacht speakers and with "Dublin" (i.e. urban) Irish being under-represented in the media.[113] This, however, is paralleled by a failure among some urban Irish speakers to acknowledge grammatical and phonological features essential to the structure of the language.[109]
Standardisation[edit]
Main article: An Caighdeán Oifigiúil
There is no single official standard for pronouncing the Irish language. Certain dictionaries, such as Foclóir Póca, provide a single pronunciation. Online dictionaries such as Foclóir Béarla-Gaeilge[114] provide audio files in the three major dialects. The differences between dialects are considerable, and have led to recurrent difficulties in conceptualising a "standard Irish." In recent decades contacts between speakers of different dialects have become more frequent and the differences between the dialects are less noticeable.[115]
An Caighdeán Oifigiúil ("The Official Standard"), often shortened to An Caighdeán, is a standard for the spelling and grammar of written Irish, developed and used by the Irish government. Its rules are followed by most schools in Ireland, though schools in and near Irish-speaking regions also use the local dialect. It was published by the translation department of Dáil Éireann in 1953[116] and updated in 2012[117] and 2017.
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Irish phonology
In pronunciation, Irish most closely resembles its nearest relatives, Scottish Gaelic and Manx. One notable feature is that consonants (except /h/) come in pairs, one "broad" (velarised, pronounced with the back of the tongue pulled back towards the soft palate) and one "slender" (palatalised, pronounced with the middle of the tongue pushed up towards the hard palate). While broad–slender pairs are not unique to Irish (being found, for example, in Russian), in Irish they have a grammatical function.
Consonant phonemes
Labial
Coronal
Dorsal
Glottal
broad
slender
broad
slender
broad
slender
Stop
voiceless
pˠ
pʲ
t̪ˠ
tʲ
k
c
voiced
bˠ
bʲ
d̪ˠ
dʲ
ɡ
ɟ
Fricative/Approximant
voiceless
fˠ
fʲ
sˠ
ʃ
x
ç
h
voiced
w
vʲ
ɣ
j
Nasal
mˠ
mʲ
n̪ˠ
nʲ
ŋ
ɲ
Tap
ɾˠ
ɾʲ
Lateral
l̪ˠ
lʲ
Vowel phonemes
Front
Central
Back
short
long
short
short
long
Close
ɪ
iː
ʊ
uː
Mid
ɛ
eː
ə
ɔ
oː
Open
a
ɑː
Diphthongs: iə, uə, əi, əu.
Syntax and morphology[edit]
Main articles: Irish grammar, Irish declension, Irish conjugation, and Irish syntax
Irish is a fusional, VSO, nominative-accusative language. Irish is neither verb nor satellite framed, and makes liberal use of deictic verbs.
Nouns decline for 3 numbers: singular, dual (only in conjunction with the number dhá "two"), plural; 2 genders: masculine, feminine; and 4 cases: nomino-accusative (ainmneach), vocative (gairmeach), genitive (ginideach), and prepositional-locative (tabharthach), with fossilised traces of the older accusative. Adjectives agree with nouns in number, gender, and case. Adjectives generally follow nouns, though some precede or prefix nouns. Demonstrative adjectives have proximal, medial, and distal forms. The prepositional-locative case is called the dative by convention, though it originates in the Proto-Celtic ablative.
Verbs conjugate for 3 tenses: past, present, future; 2 aspects: perfective, imperfective; 2 numbers: singular, plural; 4 moods: indicative, subjunctive, conditional, imperative; 2 relative forms, the present and future relative; and in some verbs, independent and dependent forms. Verbs conjugate for 3 persons and an impersonal form which is actor-free; the 3rd person singular acts as a person-free personal form that can be followed or otherwise refer to any person or number.
There are two verbs for "to be", one for inherent qualities with only two forms, is "present" and ba "past" and "conditional", and one for transient qualities, with a full complement of forms except for the verbal adjective. The two verbs share the one verbal noun.
Irish verb formation employs a mixed system during conjugation, with both analytic and synthetic methods employed depending on tense, number, mood and person. For example, in the official standard, present tense verbs have conjugated forms only in the 1st person and autonomous forms (i.e. molaim 'I praise', molaimid 'we praise', moltar 'is praised, one praises' ), whereas all other persons are conveyed analytically (i.e. molann sé 'he praises', molann sibh 'you pl. praise'). The ratio of analytic to synthetic forms in a given verb paradigm varies between the various tenses and moods. The conditional, imperative and past habitual forms prefer synthetic forms in most persons and numbers, whereas the subjunctive, past, future and present forms prefer mostly analytical forms.
The meaning of the passive voice is largely conveyed through the autonomous verb form, however there also exist other structures analogous to the passival and resultative constructions. There are also a number of preverbal particles marking the negative, interrogative, subjunctive, relative clauses, etc. There is a verbal noun and verbal adjective. Verb forms are highly regular, many grammars recognise only 11 irregular verbs.
Prepositions inflect for person and number. Different prepositions govern different cases. In Old and Middle Irish,
prepositions governed different cases depending on intended semantics; this has disappeared in Modern Irish except in fossilised form.
Irish has no verb to express having; instead, the word ag ("at", etc.) is used in conjunction with the transient "be" verb bheith:
Tá leabhar agam. "I have a book." (Literally, "there is a book at me", cf. Russian У меня есть книга, Finnish minulla on kirja, French le livre est à moi)
Tá leabhar agat. "You (singular) have a book."
Tá leabhar aige. "He has a book."
Tá leabhar aici. "She has a book."
Tá leabhar againn. "We have a book."
Tá leabhar agaibh. "You (plural) have a book."
Tá leabhar acu. "They have a book."
Numerals have 3 forms: abstract, general and ordinal. The numbers from 2 to 10 (and these in combination with higher numbers) are rarely used for people, numeral nominals being used instead:
a dó "Two."
dhá leabhar "Two books."
beirt "Two people, a couple", beirt fhear "Two men", beirt bhan "Two women".
dara, tarna (free variation) "Second."
Irish has both decimal and vigesimal systems:
10: a deich
20: fiche
30: vigesimal – a deich is fiche; decimal – tríocha
40: v. daichead, dá fhichead; d. ceathracha
50: v. a deich is daichead; d. caoga (also: leathchéad "half-hundred")
60: v. trí fichid; d. seasca
70: v. a deich is trí fichid; d. seachtó
80: v. cheithre fichid; d. ochtó
90: v. a deich is cheithre fichid; d. nócha
100: v. cúig fichid; d. céad
A number such as 35 has various forms:
a cúigdéag is fichid "15 and 20"
a cúig is tríocha "5 and 30"
a cúigdéag ar fhichid "15 on 20"
a cúig ar thríochaid "5 on 30"
a cúigdéag fichead "15 of 20 (genitive)"
a cúig tríochad "5 of 30 (genitive)"
fiche 's a cúigdéag "20 and 15"
tríocha 's a cúig "30 and 5"
The latter is most commonly used in mathematics.
Initial mutations[edit]
Main article: Irish initial mutations
In Irish, there are two classes of initial consonant mutations, which express grammatical relationship and meaning in verbs, nouns and adjectives:
Lenition (séimhiú) describes the change of stops into fricatives.[118] Indicated in Gaelic type by a sí buailte (an overdot) written above the consonant, it is shown in Roman type by adding an ⟨h⟩.
caith! "throw!" – chaith mé "I threw" (lenition as a past-tense marker, caused by the particle do, now generally omitted)
gá "requirement" – easpa an ghá "lack of the requirement" (lenition marking the genitive case of a masculine noun)
Seán "John" – a Sheáin! "John!" (lenition as part of the vocative case, the vocative lenition being triggered by a, the vocative marker before Sheáin)
Eclipsis (urú) covers the voicing of voiceless stops, and nasalisation of voiced stops.
Athair "Father" – ár nAthair "our Father"
tús "start", ar dtús "at the start"
Gaillimh "Galway" – i nGaillimh "in Galway"
Mutations are often the only way to distinguish grammatical forms. For example, the only non-contextual way to distinguish possessive pronouns "her", "his" and "their", is through initial mutations since all meanings are represented by the same word a.
his shoe – a bhróg (lenition)
their shoe – a mbróg (eclipsis)
her shoe – a bróg (unchanged)
Due to initial mutation, prefixes, clitics, suffixes, root inflection, ending morphology, elision, sandhi, epenthesis, and assimilation; the beginning, core, and end of words can each change radically and even simultaneously depending on context.
Orthography[edit]
Main article: Irish orthography
The official symbol of the Irish Defence Forces, showing a Gaelic typeface with dot diacritics
A native writing system, Ogham, was used to write Primitive Irish and Old Irish until Latin script was introduced in the 5th century CE.[119] Since the introduction of Latin script, the main typeface used to write Irish was Gaelic type until it was replaced by Roman type during the mid-20th century.
The traditional Irish alphabet (áibítir) consists of 18 letters: ⟨a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, l, m, n, o, p, r, s, t, u⟩.l; [120][121] it does not contain ⟨j, k, q, v, w, x, y, z⟩. However contemporary Irish uses the full Latin alphabet, with the previously unused letter used in modern loanwords; ⟨v⟩ occurs in a small number of (mainly onomatopoeic) native words and colloquialisms.
Vowels may be accented with an acute accent (⟨á, é, í, ó, ú⟩; Irish and Hiberno-English: (síneadh) fada "long (sign)"), but it is ignored for purposes of alphabetisation.[122] It is used, among other conventions, to marks long vowels, e.g. ⟨e⟩ is /ɛ/ and ⟨é⟩ is /eː/. 
The overdot (ponc séimhithe "dot of lenition", buailte "struck", or séimhiú "lenition") was used in traditional orthography to indicate lenition; An Caighdeán uses a following ⟨h⟩ for this purpose. 
The use of Gaelic type and the overdot today is restricted to when a traditional style is consciously being used, e.g. Óglaiġ na h-Éireann on the Irish Defence Forces cap badge (see above). Extending the use of the overdot to Roman type would theoretically have the advantage of making Irish texts significantly shorter, e.g. gheobhaidh sibh "you (pl.) will get" would become ġeoḃaiḋ siḃ.
Spelling reform[edit]
Around the time of the Second World War, Séamas Daltún, in charge of Rannóg an Aistriúcháin [ga] (The Translation Department of the Irish government), issued his own guidelines about how to standardise Irish spelling and grammar. This de facto standard was subsequently approved by the State and developed into an Caighdeán Oifigiúil, which simplified and standardised the orthography and grammar by removing inter-dialectal silent letters and simplifying vowel combinations. Where multiple versions existed in different dialects for the same word, one was selected, for example:
beirbhiughadh → beiriú "cook"
biadh → bia "food"
Gaedhealg/Gaedhilg/Gaedhealaing/Gaeilic/Gaelainn/Gaoidhealg/Gaolainn → Gaeilge "Irish language"
An Caighdeán does not reflect all dialects to the same degree, e.g. cruaidh /kɾˠuəj/ "hard", leabaidh /ˈl̠ʲabˠəj/ "bed", and tráigh /t̪ˠɾˠaːj/ "beach" were standardised as crua, leaba, and trá despite the reformed spellings only reflecting South Connacht realisations [kɾˠuə], [ˈl̠ʲabˠə], and [t̪ˠɾˠaː], failing to represent the other dialectal realisations [kɾˠui], [ˈl̠ʲabˠi], and [t̪ˠɾˠaːi] (in Mayo and Ulster) or [kɾˠuəɟ], [ˈl̠ʲabˠəɟ], and [t̪ˠɾˠaːɟ] (in Munster), which were previously represented by the pre-reformed spellings.[123] For this reason, the pre-reform spellings are used by some speakers to reflect the dialectal pronunciations.
Other examples include the genitive of bia "food" (/bʲiə/; pre-reform biadh) and saol "life, world" (/sˠeːlˠ/; pre-reform saoghal), realised [bʲiːɟ] and [sˠeːlʲ] in Munster, reflecting the pre-Caighdeán spellings bídh and saoghail, which were standardised as bia and saoil despite not representing the Munster pronunciations.[124][125]
Sample text[edit]
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Irish: Saolaítear gach duine den chine daonna saor agus comhionann i ndínit agus i gcearta. Tá bua an réasúin agus an choinsiasa acu agus ba cheart dóibh gníomhú i dtreo a chéile i spiorad an bhráithreachais.[126]
English:  All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.[127]
See also[edit]
Béarlachas, Anglicisms in Irish
Buntús Cainte, a course in basic spoken Irish
Comparison of Scottish Gaelic and Irish
Cumann Gaelach, Irish language Society
Dictionary of the Irish Language
Fáinne, a lapel pin for Irish speakers
Goidelic substrate hypothesis
Hiberno-Latin, a variety of Medieval Latin used in Irish monasteries. It included Greek, Hebrew and Celtic neologisms.
Irish language outside Ireland
Irish name and Place names in Ireland
Irish words used in the English language
Irish, a subject of the Junior Cycle examination in Secondary schools in Ireland
List of artists who have released Irish-language songs
List of English words of Irish origin
List of Ireland-related topics
List of Irish-language given names
List of Irish-language media
Modern literature in Irish
Status of the Irish language, a detailed account of the current state of the language.
Teastas Eorpach na Gaeilge
Notes[edit]
^ Irish was the first official language of the Irish state.[4] Irish is not widely used as an L2 in most of Ireland, but its use is encouraged by the government.
References[edit]
Citations[edit]
^ a b O'Gallagher, J. (1877). Sermons in Irish-Gaelic. Gill.
^ Ó Flannghaile, Tomás (1896). For the Tongue of the Gael: a Selection of Essays and Philological on Irish-Gaelic Subjects. Gill.
^ a b "Our Role Supporting You". Foras na Gaeilge. Retrieved 8 January 2021. ...  between Foras na Gaeilge and Bòrd na Gàidhlig, promoting the use of Irish Gaelic and Scottish Gaelic in Ireland and Scotland ...'
^ a b "Constitution of Ireland". Government of Ireland. 1 July 1937. Archived from the original on 17 July 2009. Retrieved 19 June 2007.
^ Ainsworth, Paul (6 December 2022). "'Historic milestone' passed as Irish language legislation becomes law". The Irish News. Retrieved 7 December 2022.
^ a b c "Gaelic definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary". www.collinsdictionary.com.
^ a b c "Gaelic: meaning in the Cambridge English Dictionary". cambridge.org. Cambridge University Press. Retrieved 22 December 2018.
^ "Irish language". Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. 2021.
^ a b "Gaelic: Definition of Gaelic by Merriam-Webster". Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, Incorporated.
^ ""Reawakening the Irish Language through the Irish Education System: Challenges and Priorities"" (PDF). International Electronic Journal of Elementary Education.
^ "7. The Irish language" (PDF). Census 2016. CSO. p. 69.
^ "Education and Irish Language - CSO - Central Statistics Office". www.cso.ie. 30 May 2023. Retrieved 1 June 2023.
^ "Census of Population 2016 – Profile 10 Education, Skills and the Irish Language". Central Statistics Office. Retrieved 8 June 2023.
^ "Frequency of Speaking Irish". nisra.gov.uk. 21 March 2023.
^ Doyle, Danny (2015). Míle Míle i gCéin: The Irish Language in Canada. Ottawa: Borealis Press. p. 196. ISBN 978-0-88887-631-7.
^ Dinneen, Patrick S. (1927). Foclóir Gaedhilge agus Béarla [Irish and English dictionary] (in Ga) (2d ed.). Dublin: Irish Texts Society. pp. 507 s.v. Gaedhealg. ISBN 1-870166-00-0.
^ Doyle, Aidan; Gussmann, Edmund (2005). An Ghaeilge, Podręcznik Języka Irlandzkiego. Redakcja Wydawnictw Katolickiego Uniwersytetu Lubelskiego. pp. 423k. ISBN 83-7363-275-1.
^ Dillon, Myles; Ó Cróinín, Donncha (1961). Teach Yourself Irish. London: English Universities Press. p. 227.
^ Ó Dónaill, Niall, ed. (1977). Foclóir Gaeilge–Béarla. p. 600 s.v. Gaeilge.
^ "Ireland speaks up loudly for Gaelic". The New York Times. 29 March 2005. Archived from the original on 8 January 2014. Retrieved 19 February 2017. An example of the use of the word "Gaelic" to describe the language, seen throughout the text of the article.
^ "Irish: Ethnologue". Ethnologue. Retrieved 22 December 2018. Alternate names: Erse, Gaelic Irish, Irish Gaelic
^ Dalton, Martha (July 2019). "Nuclear Accents in Four Irish (Gaelic) Dialects". International Conference of Phonetic Science. XVI. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.486.4615.
^ "Interinstitutional Style Guide: Section 7.2.4. Rules governing the languages of the institutions". European Union. 27 April 2016.
^ "Gaelic". The Free Dictionary.
^ "House of Commons, 1 August 1922: Ireland: Erse language (18)". Hansard. London, UK: Houses of Parliament. 157. 1240-1242. 1 August 1922. Sir CHARLES OMAN asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he has protested against the recent attempt of the Provisional Government in Ireland to force compulsory Erse into all official correspondence, in spite of the agreement that Erse and English should be equally permissible .. MR CHURCHILL .. I do not anticipate that Irish Ministers will willingly incur the very great confusion which would inevitably result from the use of Irish for the material parts of their correspondence.
^ De Fréine, Seán (1978). The Great Silence: The Study of a Relationship Between Language and Nationality. Irish Books & Media. ISBN 978-0-85342-516-8.
^ a b Ó Gráda 2013.
^ O'Reilly, Edward (17 March 2015). ""The unadulterated Irish language": Irish Speakers in Nineteenth Century New York". New-York Historical Society. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 29 July 2017.
^ See the discussion in Wolf, Nicholas M. (2014). An Irish-Speaking Island: State, Religion, Community, and the Linguistic Landscape in Ireland, 1770–1870. University of Wisconsin Press. ISBN 978-0-299-30274-0.
^ McMahon 2008, pp. 130–131.
^ "The Irish language and the Church of Ireland". Church of Ireland. Archived from the original on 10 July 2017. Retrieved 29 July 2017.
^ Watson, Iarfhlaith; Nic Ghiolla Phádraig, Máire (September 2009). "Is there an educational advantage to speaking Irish? An investigation of the relationship between education and ability to speak Irish". International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 2009 (199): 143–156. doi:10.1515/IJSL.2009.039. hdl:10197/5649. S2CID 144222872.
^ "Ireland speaks up loudly for Gaelic". The New York Times. 29 March 2005. Archived from the original on 8 January 2014. Retrieved 19 February 2017.
^ Murphy, Brian (25 January 2018). "Douglas Hyde's inauguration – a signal of a new Ireland". RTÉ. Archived from the original on 7 September 2018. Retrieved 6 September 2018.
^ a b "Douglas Hyde Opens 2RN 1 January 1926". RTÉ News. 15 February 2012. Archived from the original on 6 January 2013. Retrieved 8 May 2013.
^ "Allocution en irlandais, par M. Douglas Hyde". Bibliothèque nationale de France. 28 January 1922. Retrieved 6 September 2018.
^ "The Doegen Records Web Project". Archived from the original on 7 September 2018.
^ "Census of Population 2016 – Profile 10 Education, Skills and the Irish Language – CSO – Central Statistics Office". 23 November 2017. Archived from the original on 12 February 2018. Retrieved 11 February 2018.
^ Ó Murchú, Máirtín (1993). "Aspects of the societal status of Modern Irish". In Ball, Martin J.; Fife, James (eds.). The Celtic Languages. London: Routledge. pp. 471–90. ISBN 0-415-01035-7.
^ "NUI Entry Requirements – Ollscoil na hÉireann – National University of Ireland". Nui.ie. Archived from the original on 5 July 2012. Retrieved 7 July 2012.
^ "Obligation to appoint Irish speakers". Archived from the original on 30 November 2005.
^ "Academic claims the forced learning of Irish 'has failed'". Independent.ie. 19 January 2006.
^ Regan, Mary (4 May 2010). "End compulsory Irish, says FG, as 14,000 drop subject". Irish Examiner.
^ Donncha Ó hÉallaithe: "Litir oscailte chuig Enda Kenny": BEO.ie Archived 20 January 2011 at the Wayback Machine
^ Siggins, Lorna (16 July 2007). "Study sees decline of Irish in Gaeltacht". The Irish Times.
^ Nollaig Ó Gadhra, 'The Gaeltacht and the Future of Irish, Studies, Volume 90, Number 360
^ Welsh Robert and Stewart, Bruce (1996). 'Gaeltacht,' The Oxford Companion to Irish Literature. Oxford University Press.
^ Hindley, Reg (1991). The Death of the Irish Language: A Qualified Obituary. Taylor & Francis.
^ Magan, Manchán (9 January 2007). "Cá Bhfuil Na Gaeilg eoirí? *". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on 29 January 2017. Retrieved 17 December 2016.
^ See the discussion and the conclusions reached in 'Language and Occupational Status: Linguistic Elitism in the Irish Labour Market,' The Economic and Social Review, Vol. 40, No. 4, Winter, 2009, pp. 435–460: Ideas.repec.org Archived 29 March 2015 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Over 2.3m people using language app to learn Irish". RTE. 25 November 2016. Archived from the original on 4 September 2017. Retrieved 23 September 2017.
^ "Ar fheabhas! President praises volunteer Duolingo translators". The Irish Times. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 23 September 2017.
^ a b Siggins, Lorna (6 January 2003). "Only 25% of Gaeltacht households fluent in Irish – survey". The Irish Times. p. 5.
^ Hindley 1991, Map 7: Irish speakers by towns and distinct electoral divisions, census 1926.
^ a b Trinity College Dublin (5 November 2020). "Official Languages Act 2003".
^ "Official Languages Act 2003". www.gov.ie. 22 July 2020. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
^ An Coimisinéir Teanga. Official Languages Act 2003: Guidebook (PDF). pp. 1–3.
^ "Official Languages Act 2003 (and related legislation)". www.gov.ie. 31 August 2020. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
^ "Review of Official Language Act 2003". www.gov.ie. 3 July 2015. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
^ "Irish Language Policy". www.gov.ie. July 2019. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
^ Roinn an Taoisigh (2019). Official Languages Act 2003: Language Scheme 2019-2022. p. 3.
^ "20-Year Strategy for the Irish Language". www.gov.ie. 29 September 2020. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
^ Government of Ireland (2010). 20-Year Strategy for the Irish Language 2010-2030. p. 11.
^ Breadun, Deaglan De. "Plan could treble number speaking Irish, says Cowen". The Irish Times. Retrieved 10 December 2020.
^ "CAIN: Issues: Language: O'Reilly, C. (1997) Nationalists and the Irish Language in Northern Ireland: Competing Perspectives". Cain.ulst.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 9 October 2015. Retrieved 31 October 2015.
^ "GPPAC.net". Archived from the original on 13 May 2007.
^ "Belfast Agreement – Full text – Section 6 (Equality) – "Economic, Social and Cultural issues"". Cain.ulst.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 22 November 2013. Retrieved 7 July 2012.
^ "Irish language future is raised". BBC News. 13 December 2006. Archived from the original on 15 March 2007. Retrieved 19 June 2007.
^ Ainsworth, Paul (6 December 2022). "'Historic milestone' passed as Irish language legislation becomes law". The Irish News. Retrieved 18 February 2023.
^ "Thousands call for Irish Language Act during Belfast rally". The Irish Times. Archived from the original on 15 November 2017. Retrieved 15 January 2018.
^ "Is í an Ghaeilge an 21ú teanga oifigiúil den Aontas Eorpach" [Irish is the 21st official language of the European Union] (in Ga). Archived from the original on 18 March 2008. Retrieved 14 June 2008.
^ Boland, Lauren (31 December 2021). "Irish to be fully recognised as an official EU language from New Year's Day". TheJournal.ie. Retrieved 1 January 2022.
^ O Broin, Brian. "An Analysis of the Irish-Speaking Communities of North America: Who are they, what are their opinions, and what are their needs?". Academia (in Irish). Archived from the original on 10 May 2012. Retrieved 31 March 2012.
^ "1. Detailed Languages Spoken at Home and Ability to Speak English for the Population 5 Years and Over for the United States: 2006–2008", Language (table), Census, 2010
^ Mannion, John (February 2003). "The Irish in Newfoundland". Heritage: Newfoundland & Labrador.
^ Clarke, Sandra; Paddock, Harold; MacKenzie, Marguerite (1999). "Language". Heritage: Newfoundland and Labrador.
^ "7. Irish". Report of the 2016 Census of Ireland. Dublin, Ireland: Central Statistics Office. 2017. pp. 66, 69. Of the 1.76 million who said they could speak Irish, 73,803 said they speak it daily outside the education system, a fall of 3,382 on the 2011 figure. ... (421,274) said they never spoke Irish. ... Of the 73,803 daily Irish speakers (outside the education system), 20,586 (27.9%) lived in Gaeltacht areas. The total population of all Gaeltacht areas in April 2016 was 96,090
^ "Census 2016 Summary Results – Part 1 – CSO – Central Statistics Office". Cso.ie. Archived from the original on 30 July 2017. Retrieved 29 July 2017.
^ "Department of Tourism, Culture, Arts, Gaeltacht, Sport and Media" (PDF). www.gov.ie.
^ "The Doegen Records Web Project". Archived from the original on 8 September 2018.
^ Hamilton, John Noel (1974). A Phonetic Study of the Irish of Tory Island, County Donegal. Institute of Irish Studies, The Queen's University of Belfast.
^ Lucas, Leslie W. (1979). Grammar of Ros Goill Irish, County Donegal. Institute of Irish Studies, The Queen's University of Belfast.
^ Williams 1994, pp. 467–478.
^ Borde, Andrew (1870). Furnivall, F.J. (ed.). "The Fyrst Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge". N. Trubner & Co. pp. 131–135.
^ "State of Ireland & Plan for its Reformation" in State Papers Ireland, Henry VIII, ii, 8.
^ a b c See Fitzgerald 1984.
^ "The Irish Language in Co. Wicklow". 27 June 2019.
^ Cited in Ó Gráda 2013.
^ "The Doegen Records Web Project | DHO". Dho.ie. 5 September 1928. Archived from the original on 19 March 2016. Retrieved 19 March 2016.
^ "Cur síos ar an chainteoir ó dhúchas deireannach ón Ó Méith, Co Lú, Anna Uí AnnluainCur síos ar an chainteoir ó dhúchas deireannach ón Ó Méith, Co Lú, Anna Uí Annluain". RTÉ Archives. Retrieved 22 October 2022.
^ See "Tony Crowley, "The Politics of Language in Ireland 1366–1922: A Sourcebook" and Leerssen, Joep, Mere Irish and Fior-Ghael: Studies in the Idea of Irish Nationality, Its Development and Literary Expression Prior to the Nineteenth Century, University of Notre Dame Press 1997, p. 51. ISBN 978-0268014278
^ Ellis, Henry (ed.). The Description of Ireland, An Electronic Edition: Chapter 1 (The Names of Ireland, with the Compasse of the Same, also what Shires or Counties it Conteineth, the Diuision or Partition of the Land, and of the Language of the People)
^ See Ó hÓgáin 2011.
^ Berresford Ellis, Peter (1975). Hell or Connnaught! The Cromwellian Colonisation of Ireland 1652-1660, p. 156. Hamish Hamilton. SBN 241-89071-3.
^ Berresford Ellis 1975, p. 193.
^ Berresford Ellis 1975, p. 190.
^ Caerwyn Williams & Uí Mhuiríosa 1979, pp. 279 and 284.
^ Ní Mhunghaile 2010, pp. 239–276.
^ See Fitzgerald, 1984.
^ McCabe, p.31
^ Quoted in Graham Kew (ed.), The Irish Sections of Fynes Moryson's unpublished itinerary (IMC, Dublin, 1998), p. 50.
^ Quoted in Hardiman, James, The History of the Town and Country of the County of Galway. Dublin 1820: p. 80.
^ Ó Laoire 2007, p. 164.
^ Quoted in de Brún 2009, pp. 11–12.
^ Fitzgerald, Garrett, 'Estimates for baronies of minimal level of Irish-speaking amongst successive decennial cohorts, 117-1781 to 1861–1871,' Volume 84, Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy 1984
^ Ó Conluain & Ó Céileachair 1976, pp. 148–153, 163–169, 210–215.
^ Máirín Ní Mhuiríosa, "Cumann na Scríbhneoirí: Memoir" in Scríobh 5, pp. 168–181, Seán Ó Mórdha (ed.), An Clóchomhar Tta 1981.
^ "Dublin : Gaelscoileanna – Irish Medium Education". Retrieved 8 April 2020.
^ a b c Ó Broin, Brian (16 January 2010). "Schism fears for Gaeilgeoirí". The Irish Times. Archived from the original on 16 February 2018. Retrieved 16 February 2018.
^ Walsh, John; OʼRourke, Bernadette; Rowland, Hugh (October 2015). Research Report on New Speakers of Irish (PDF) (Report). Foras na Gaeilge. Retrieved 8 June 2023.
^ Seoighe, Stiofán (22 July 2019). "Gá le doirse a oscailt do nuachainteoirí na Gaeilge: Cén chaoi gur féidir cainteoirí gníomhacha, féinmhuiníneacha a dhéanamh astu seo a fhoghlaimíonn an Ghaeilge ar scoil?" [Need to open doors for new speakers of Irish: How can active, self-confident speakers be made from those who learn Irish at school?]. The Irish Times (in Ga). Retrieved 19 August 2019.
^ Nic Fhlannchadha, S.; Hickey, T.M. (12 January 2016). "Minority Language Ownership and Authority: Perspectives of Native Speakers and New Speakers". International Journal of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism. 21 (1): 38–53. doi:10.1080/13670050.2015.1127888. hdl:10197/7394. S2CID 67833553.
^ Ní Thuathaláin, Méabh (23 July 2019). "'I'm gonna speak Irish the way that's natural for me' – craoltóir buartha faoi éilíteachas shaol na Gaeilge". Tuairisc.ie. Archived from the original on 4 September 2019. Retrieved 19 August 2019.{{cite news}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)
^ "Leabharlann Teanga agus Foclóireachta". www.teanglann.ie. Retrieved 8 April 2020.
^ "Irish Dialects copy of Irishlanguage.net". Archived from the original on 1 July 2016. Retrieved 31 October 2015.
^ "Beginners' Blas". BBC. June 2005. Archived from the original on 3 March 2009. Retrieved 18 March 2011.
^ "An Caighdeán Oifigiúil" [The Official Standard] (PDF) (in Ga). January 2012. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 April 2018. Retrieved 26 February 2018.
^ "III The morphonology of Irish". The Sound Structure of Modern Irish. De Gruyter Mouton. 11 April 2014. pp. 235–316. doi:10.1515/9783110226607.235. ISBN 978-3-11-022660-7.
^ "Celtic languages - Irish | Britannica". www.britannica.com.
^ Graiméar Gaeilge na mBráithre Críostai. L. A. Ó hAnluain, Christian Brothers (Eagrán nua ed.). Baile Átha Cliath: An Gúm. 1999. ISBN 1-85791-327-2. OCLC 46449130.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: others (link)
^ "Irish Orthography". www.nualeargais.ie. Retrieved 23 October 2022.
^ "Irish 'fada' to get legal protection – and must appear in all State IT systems and computer keyboards". independent. 8 July 2021. Retrieved 31 December 2022.
^ Doyle, Aidan; Gussmann, Edmund (2005). An Ghaeilge, Podręcznik Języka Irlandzkiego. Redakcja Wydawnictw Katolickiego Uniwersytetu Lubelskiego. p. 417. ISBN 83-7363-275-1.
^ Doyle, Aidan; Gussmann, Edmund (2005). An Ghaeilge, Podręcznik Języka Irlandzkiego. Redakcja Wydawnictw Katolickiego Uniwersytetu Lubelskiego. p. 412. ISBN 83-7363-275-1.
^ Doyle, Aidan; Gussmann, Edmund (2005). An Ghaeilge, Podręcznik Języka Irlandzkiego. Redakcja Wydawnictw Katolickiego Uniwersytetu Lubelskiego. p. 432. ISBN 83-7363-275-1.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations.
Bibliography[edit]
Caerwyn Williams, J.E. & Ní Mhuiríosa, Máirín (ed.). Traidisiún Liteartha na nGael. An Clóchomhar Tta 1979.
McCabe, Richard A.. Spenser's Monstrous Regiment: Elizabethan Ireland and the Poetics of Difference. Oxford University Press 2002. ISBN 0-19-818734-3.
Hickey, Raymond. The Dialects of Irish: Study of a Changing Landscape. Walter de Gruyter, 2011. ISBN 3110238306.
Hickey, Raymond. The Sound Structure of Modern Irish. De Gruyter Mouton 2014. ISBN 978-3-11-022659-1.
De Brún, Pádraig. Scriptural Instruction in the Vernacular: The Irish Society and its Teachers 1818–1827. Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies 2009. ISBN 978-1-85500-212-8
Doyle, Aidan, A History of the Irish Language: From the Norman Invasion to Independence, Oxford, 2015.
Fitzgerald, Garrett, 'Estimates for baronies of minimal level of Irish-speaking amongst successive decennial cohorts, 117–1781 to 1861–1871,' Volume 84, Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy 1984.
Garvin, Tom, Preventing the Future: Why was Ireland so poor for so long?, Gill and MacMillan, 2005.
Hindley, Reg (1991, new ed.). The Death of the Irish Language: A Qualified Obituary. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-4150-6481-1
McMahon, Timothy G.. Grand Opportunity: The Gaelic Revival and Irish Society, 1893–1910. Syracuse University Press 2008. ISBN 978-0-8156-3158-3
Ó Gráda, Cormac. 'Cé Fada le Fán' in Dublin Review of Books, Issue 34, 6 May 2013: "CÉ FADA LE FÁN". Drb.ie. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 23 September 2017.
Kelly, James & Mac Murchaidh, Ciarán (eds.). Irish and English: Essays on the Linguistic and Cultural Frontier 1600–1900. Four Courts Press 2012. ISBN 978-1846823404
Ní Mhunghaile, Lesa. 'An Eighteenth Century Irish scribe's private library: Muiris Ó Gormáin's books' in Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy, Volume 110C, 2010, pp. 239–276.
Ní Mhuiríosa, Máirín. 'Cumann na Scríbhneoirí: Memoir' in Scríobh 5, ed. Seán Ó Mórdha. Baile Átha Cliath: An Clóchomhar Tta 1981.
Ó hÓgáin, Dáithí. Labhrann Laighnigh: Téacsanna agus Cainteanna ó Shean-Chúige Laighean. Coiscéim 2011.
Ó Laoire, Muiris. Language Use and Language Attitudes in Ireland in Multilingualism in European Bilingual Contexts : Language Use and Attitudes, ed. David Lasagabaster and Ángel Huguet. Multilingual Matters Ltd. 2007. ISBN 1-85359-929-8
Shibakov, Alexey. Irish Word Forms / Irische Wortformen. epubli 2017. ISBN 9783745066500
Williams, Nicholas. 'Na Canúintí a Theacht chun Solais' in Stair na Gaeilge, ed. Kim McCone and others. Maigh Nuad 1994. ISBN 0-901519-90-1
External links[edit]
the Irish language  at Wikipedia's sister projects
Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsTextbooks from WikibooksPhrasebook from WikivoyageIrish edition of Wikipedia
Wikisource has original text related to this article:
Main Page/Gaeilge 
Discover Irish
"Learning Irish?," BBC
Giotaí and Top 40 Offigiúla na hÉireann programmes
Irish Swadesh list of basic vocabulary words (from Wiktionary's Swadesh-list appendix)
Grammar and pronunciation[edit]
Learn Irish Grammar with audio and pronunciation
An Gael Magazine – Irish Gaelic Arts, Culture, And History Alive Worldwide Today
Trinity College Dublin The Irish Language Synthesiser
Dictionaries[edit]
Teanglann.ie – Dictionaries and terminology resource
General Gaelic Dictionaries
Articles related to the Irish language
vteIrish languageHistory
Proto-Indo-European
Proto-Celtic
Insular Celtic
Goidelic
Primitive Irish
Old Irish
Middle Irish
Early Modern Irish
Classical Gaelic
Modern Irish
Sociolinguistics
List of Gaeilgeoirí
Connacht Irish
Munster Irish
Ulster Irish
Status (Northern Ireland)
Outside Ireland (in Newfoundland)
Béarlachas
Fáinne
Grammar
An Caighdeán Oifigiúil
Initial mutations
Declension
Conjugation
Dependent and independent forms
Phonology
Syntax
Writing
Orthography
Ogham
Gaelic type
Braille
Early literature
Modern literature
Lexicography
An Caighdeán Oifigiúil
MediaJournals
Comhar
Feasta
An tUltach
Tuairisc.ie
Nós
An Gael
Seachtain
Television
TG4
Cúla 4
RTÉ One (Nuacht RTÉ)
BBC Two NI (sporadic)
NVTV (sporadic)
Radio
RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta
Raidió Rí-Rá
Raidió Na Life
Raidió Fáilte
BBC Radio Ulster (Blas)
Publishers
Tuairisc.ie
An Gúm
Cló Iar-Chonnacht
Coiscéim
Gael Linn
Irish Texts Society
Sáirséal agus Dill
Glór na nGael
Qualifications
Leaving Cert Irish
Teastas Eorpach na Gaeilge
Names
Personal and family names
List of personal names
 Category
vteGaelsGeneral history
Gaelic Ireland
High King of Ireland
Irish kingdoms
Dál Riata
Alba
Nine Years' War
Statutes of Iona
Flight of the Earls
Plantation of Ulster
1641 Rebellion
Act for the Settlement of Ireland 1652
Jacobitism
Jacobite rising of 1745
Penal Laws
Great Hunger
Irish diaspora
Highland Clearances
Gaelic Revival
Gaeltacht
Gàidhealtachd
Gaelic culture
Ogham
Brehon law
Gaelic mythology
Lebor Gabála Érenn
Gaelic warfare
Gaelic astrology
Gaelic kinship
Bardic poetry
Gaelic literature (Early Irish, Modern Irish, Scottish Gaelic & Manx)
Gaelic type
Insular script
Fáinne
Gaelic folk music
Sean-nós singing
Oireachtas na Gaeilge
Am Mòd
Gaelic games
Highland games
Túath
Insular Christianity
Gaelic Christian mission
Language
Primitive Irish
Old Irish
Middle Irish
Classical Gaelic
Irish
Manx
Scottish Gaelic
ClansIrish
Royal families
Kings
Medical families
Nobility
Genealogy
List
Connachta (incl. Uí Néill, Clan Colla, Clan Donald, Uí Mháine, etc)
Dalcassians (incl. Déisi)
Eóganachta
Érainn (incl. Dál Riata, Corcu Loígde, Dál Fiatach, etc)
Laigin
Ulaid (incl. Dál nAraidi, Conmaicne, and Cíarraige)
Ulster
Scottish
ListRelatedorganisations
Údarás na Gaeltachta
Foras na Gaeilge
Bòrd na Gàidhlig
Culture Vannin
Conradh na Gaeilge
An Comunn Gàidhealach
Yn Çheshaght Ghailckagh
Seachtain na Gaeilge
Gael Linn
ULTACH Trust
Comunn na Gàidhlig
Columba Project
Clans of Ireland
An Coimisinéir Teanga
Related subjects
Haplogroup R-M269 (human genetics)
Celts
Norse–Gaels (incl. Uí Ímair and Clan MacLeod)
Kingdom of Munster
Kingdom of the Isles
Gaelicisation
 Category
vteCeltic languagesReconstructed
Proto-Celtic
Continental Celtic
Galatian
Gaulish
Cisalpine Gaulish
Hispano-Celtic
Celtiberian
Gallaecian
Lepontic
Noric
Insular CelticBrittonic(Brythonic)Reconstructed
Common Brittonic
Southwestern Brittonic
Breton
Cornish
Western Brittonic
Cumbric
Ivernic? (possibly hypothetical)
Welsh
Old Welsh
Middle Welsh
Pictish
Pictish
Goidelic
Galwegian Gaelic
Classical Gaelic
Irish
Primitive Irish
Old Irish
Middle Irish
Early Modern Irish
Manx
Scottish Gaelic
Unknown
Ancient Belgian? (possibly hypothetical)
Camunic? (possibly related to Rhaetic or pre-Indo-European)
Ligurian? (possibly independent or pre-Indo-European)
Lusitanian? (possibly Italic)
Rhaetic? (possibly Tyrsenian)
Tartessian? (possibly Paleo-Hispanic)
Mixed
Beurla Reagaird
Shelta
Celtic-speaking areas
Lower Brittany (Brittany)
Y Wladfa (Chubut Province, Argentina; Welsh)
Gaeltacht (Ireland)
Cape Breton Island (Nova Scotia; Scottish Gaelic)
Gàidhealtachd (Scotland)
Y Fro Gymraeg (Wales)
Immersive education
Diwan (Breton)
Skol Veythrin Karenza (Cornish)
Gaelscoil (Irish)
Bunscoill Ghaelgagh (Manx)
Scottish Gaelic-medium education
Welsh-medium education
Italics indicate extinct or ancestor languages
vteCeltic nationsNationsCeltic League definition
Brittany
Cornwall
Ireland
Isle of Man
Scotland
Wales
Other claimants
Nova Scotia
England
Asturias
Galicia
Y Wladfa
Nationalism
Brittany (history)
Cornwall
Ireland
Isle of Man
Scotland (national identity)
Wales (national identity)
Independence
Asturian
Breton
Cornish
Galician
Irish
Republicanism
United Ireland
Scottish
Republicanism
Welsh
Republicanism
Pan-Celtic movements
Celtic Congress
Celtic League
Celtic union
Columba Project
Languages
Brittonic
Breton
Cornish
Welsh
Goidelic
Irish
Manx
Scottish Gaelic
Mixed
Bungi Creole
Shelta
Peoples
Britons
Bretons
Cornish
Welsh
Gaels
Irish (including Irish Travellers)
Manx
Scots (including Scottish Travellers
Culture
Brittany
Cornwall
Ireland
Isle of Man
Scotland
Wales
Celtic art
Celtic religion
Tartan
Festivals
Festival Interceltique de Lorient
Pan Celtic Festival
Hebridean Celtic Festival
Celtic Connections
Celtic Media Festival
Eisteddfod
Sport
Bando
Bataireacht
Camogie
Cammag
Cnapan
Cornish hurling
Cornish wrestling
Curling
Gaelic football (Ladies')
Gaelic handball
Gouren
Rounders
Highland games
Hurling
Road bowls
Shinty
Welsh handball
vte Languages of IrelandOfficial languages
Irish
English
Minority languages
Scots
Ulster Scots
Shelta
Sign languages
Irish Sign Language (Lámh)
vteLanguages of the United KingdomOfficial languageEnglishRecognised regional languages
Cornish
Irish
Manx
Norman
Auregnais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Sercquiais
Scots
Ulster Scots
Scottish Gaelic
Welsh
Other languages
Angloromani
Beurla Reagaird
Scottish Cant
Shelta
Sign languages
British
Irish
Northern Irish
Old Kentish
Languages by region
Cornwall
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
vteBritish–Irish CouncilGood Friday AgreementMember jurisdictions
United Kingdom
Ireland
Guernsey
Isle of Man
Jersey
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Member bodies
Government of the United Kingdom
Government of Ireland
Policy and Resources Committee of Guernsey
Isle of Man Government
Government of Jersey
Northern Ireland Executive
Scottish Government
Welsh Government
Work areas
Demography
eHealth
Environment
Indigenous, minority and lesser-used languages
Knowledge economy
Misuse of drugs
Social inclusion
Tourism
Transport
Representatives of states
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
Taoiseach (of Ireland)
President of the Policy and Resources Committee of Guernsey
Chief Minister of the Isle of Man
Chief Minister of Jersey
First Minister and deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland
First Minister of Scotland
First Minister of Wales
vteLanguages of Europe Sovereign states
Albania
Andorra
Armenia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Moldova
Monaco
Montenegro
Netherlands
North Macedonia
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
San Marino
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Vatican City
States with limitedrecognition
Abkhazia
Artsakh
Kosovo
Northern Cyprus
South Ossetia
Transnistria
Dependencies andother entities
Åland
Faroe Islands
Gibraltar
Guernsey
Isle of Man
Jersey
Svalbard
Other entities
European Union
Sovereign Military Order of Malta
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Poland
vteIreland topics
Republic of Ireland topics
Northern Ireland topics
HistoryTimeline
Prehistory
Protohistory
Early history
Gaelic Ireland / Lordship of Ireland
800–1169
1169–1536
Kingdom of Ireland
1536–1691
1691–1800
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
1801–1923
Irish Republic
Southern Ireland (1921–1922)
Northern Ireland (1921–present)
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
since 1922
Irish Free State (1922–1937)
Ireland (since 1922)
Events
Battles of Tara / Glenmama / Clontarf
Norman invasion
Bruce campaign
Black Death
Tudor conquest
Desmond Rebellions
Spanish Armada
Tyrone's Rebellion
Flight of the Earls
Plantation of Ulster
1641 Rebellion / Confederate War
Cromwellian conquest / Settlement of 1652
Williamite War
Penal Laws
First Great Famine
1798 Rebellion
Act of Union (1800)
1803 Rebellion
Tithe War
Second Great Famine
Land War
Fenian Rising
Dublin lock-out
Home Rule crisis
Easter Rising
War of Independence
Anglo-Irish Treaty
Civil War
The Emergency
IRA Northern Campaign
IRA Border Campaign
The Troubles
Peace process
Economy of the Republic of Ireland
Celtic Tiger
Post-2008 Irish economic downturn
Post-2008 Irish banking crisis
Other topics
List of conflicts in Ireland
List of Irish tribes
List of Irish kingdoms
List of High Kings
Gaelic clothing and fashion
List of World Heritage Sites in the Republic of Ireland
GeographyNatural
Climate
Climate change
Coastline
Extreme points
Fauna
Islands
Loughs
Mountains
Rivers
list
List of national parks of the Republic of Ireland / in Northern Ireland
Human
Architecture
Notable buildings
Tallest buildings and structures
Cities
Counties
Demographics of the Republic of Ireland / of Northern Ireland
Ports
Provinces
ROI–UK border
Towns
Tourism in the Republic of Ireland
Tourist attractions
Transport
PoliticsIdeologies
Nationalism
Republicanism
Ulster loyalism
Unionism
Republic of Ireland
Constitution
Economy
Education
Foreign relations
Government
local
Law
Oireachtas parliament
Dáil Éireann (lower house)
Seanad Éireann (upper house)
President
Taxation
Northern Ireland
Assembly
D'Hondt method
Economy
Education
Government
local
Peace process
CultureCuisineFood
List of dishes
Barmbrack
Bacon and cabbage
Boxty
Champ
Coddle
Colcannon
Drisheen
Irish fry
Skirts and kidneys
Soda bread
Spice Bag
Stew
Drinks
Coffee
Cream
Guinness
Mist
Poitín
Tea
Whiskey
Dance
Jig
Sean-nós
Set dancing
Stepdance
Festivals
Imbolc
Saint Patrick's Day
Bealtaine
The Twelfth
Lúnasa
Rose of Tralee
Samhain / Halloween
Wren Day
Languages
Hiberno-English
Irish
Shelta
Ulster Scots
Literature
Annals
Fiction
Gaeilge
Poetry
Theatre
Triads
Music
Ballads
Céilí
Folk music
session
Instruments
Rock music
Traditional singing
Mythology
Cycles
Fenian
Mythological
Ulster
Aos Sí
Echtrai
Immrama
Tuatha Dé Danann
Legendary creatures
People
Anglo-Irish
Gaels
Gaelic Ireland
Hiberno-Normans
Irish diaspora
List of Irish people
Travellers
Ulster Scots
Sport
Association football in the Republic of Ireland
Association football in Northern Ireland
Camogie
Gaelic football
Gaelic handball
Hurling
Martial arts
Road bowling
Rounders
Rugby union
Yola
Symbols
Brighid's Cross
Cláirseach
County coats of arms
Flags
Northern Ireland flags issue
Irish Wolfhound
National coat of arms
Red Hand
Shamrock
Other
Calendar
Castles
Cinema
Heritage Sites
Historic houses
Homelessness
Mass media (Republic)
Monastic
Names
Place names / outside Ireland
Prostitution (Republic) / in Northern Ireland
Public holidays in the Republic of Ireland / in Northern Ireland
Public houses
Squatting
 Ireland portal
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Irish_language&oldid=1173175938"
Categories: Irish languageLanguages attested from the 4th centuryFusional languagesGoidelic languagesLanguages of Northern IrelandLanguages of IrelandVerb–subject–object languagesVertical vowel systemsLanguages of the Republic of IrelandHidden categories: CS1 foreign language sources (ISO 639-2)CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyWebarchive template wayback linksCS1 Irish-language sources (ga)CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknownCS1 maint: othersArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from May 2023Use Hiberno-English from September 2013All Wikipedia articles written in Hiberno-EnglishArticles containing Irish-language textLanguage articles with speaker number undatedLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeLanguage articles without reference fieldArticles containing Middle Irish (900-1200)-language textArticles containing Old Irish (to 900)-language textArticles containing Scottish Gaelic-language textArticles containing Manx-language textArticles containing Latin-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2018Articles containing Persian-language textPages using Sister project links with wikidata namespace mismatchArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with PLWABN identifiers
 This page was last edited on 31 August 2023, at 19:22 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width