Greek language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Periods
1.2Diglossia
1.3Historical unity
2Geographic distribution
Toggle Geographic distribution subsection
2.1Official status
3Characteristics
Toggle Characteristics subsection
3.1Phonology
3.2Morphology
3.2.1Nouns and adjectives
3.2.2Verbs
3.3Syntax
3.4Vocabulary
4Greek loanwords in other languages
5Classification
6Writing system
Toggle Writing system subsection
6.1Linear B
6.2Cypriot syllabary
6.3Greek alphabet
6.3.1Diacritics
6.3.2Punctuation
6.4Latin alphabet
6.5Hebrew alphabet
6.6Arabic alphabet
7Example text
8See also
9Notes
10Footnotes
11References
12Further reading
13External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Greek language
211 languages
АдыгабзэAfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛअंगिकाÆngliscАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésܐܪܡܝܐԱրեւմտահայերէնAsturianuAvañe'ẽАварAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBasa BaliবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीBikol CentralБългарскиBoarischབོད་ཡིགBosanskiBrezhonegБуряадCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaChi-ChewaChiShonaCymraegDanskالدارجةDavvisámegiellaDeutschDolnoserbskiEestiΕλληνικάEmiliàn e rumagnòlЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskFurlanGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalegoГӀалгӀай贛語客家語/Hak-kâ-ngîХальмг한국어HawaiʻiՀայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaИронIsiZuluÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaKabɩyɛಕನ್ನಡKapampanganქართულიҚазақшаKernowekIkinyarwandaKiswahiliКомиKriyòl gwiyannenKurdîКыргызчаLadinLadinoລາວLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschЛезгиLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingálaLingua Franca NovaLivvinkarjalaLa .lojban.LombardMagyarमैथिलीМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMāoriमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟMinangkabau閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄МокшеньМонголမြန်မာဘာသာNāhuatlNederlandsNedersaksiesनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorfuk / PitkernNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNovialOccitanОлык марийଓଡ଼ିଆOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPapiamentuپښتوPatoisПерем комиPicardPiemontèisTok PisinPlattdüütschPolskiΠοντιακάPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаGagana Samoaसंस्कृतम्ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤسرائیکیSarduScotsSeelterskSesothoShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСловѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaclḥitТатарча / tatarçaతెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeTyapУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVènetoVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükVõro文言Winaray吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語ZazakiŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikiquoteWikiversityWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Indo-European language
For the Greek language used during particular eras, see Proto-Greek language, Mycenaean Greek, Ancient Greek, Koine Greek, Medieval Greek, and Modern Greek.
GreekελληνικάPronunciation[eliniˈka]Native to
Greece
Cyprus
southern Albania
Calabria and Salento (Italy)
and other regions of the Balkans, Black Sea coast, Asia Minor and Eastern Mediterranean
EthnicityGreeksNative speakers13.5 million (2012)[1]Language familyIndo-European
Graeco-Phrygian (?)HellenicGreekEarly formProto-Greek
Dialects
Ancient dialects
Koine
Medieval
Modern dialects
Writing systemGreek alphabetOfficial statusOfficial language in
 Greece
 Cyprus
 European Union
Language codesISO 639-1elISO 639-2gre (B) ell (T)ISO 639-3Variously:ell – Modern Greekgrc – Ancient Greekcpg – Cappadocian Greekgmy – Mycenaean Greekpnt – Pontictsd – Tsakonianyej – YevanicGlottologgree1276Linguasphere56-AAA-a56-AAA-aa to -am (varieties)Areas where Modern Greek is spoken (in dark blue those areas where it is the official language).(The map does not indicate where the language is majority or minority.)This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Greek (Modern Greek: Ελληνικά, romanized: Elliniká, pronounced [eliniˈka]; Ancient Greek: Ἑλληνική, romanized: Hellēnikḗ) is an independent branch of the Indo-European family of languages, native to Greece, Cyprus, Italy (in Calabria and Salento), southern Albania, and other regions of the Balkans, the Black Sea coast, Asia Minor, and the Eastern Mediterranean. It has the longest documented history of any Indo-European language, spanning at least 3,400 years of written records.[2] Its writing system is the Greek alphabet, which has been used for approximately 2,800 years;[3][4] previously, Greek was recorded in writing systems such as Linear B and the Cypriot syllabary.[5] The alphabet arose from the Phoenician script and was in turn the basis of the Latin, Cyrillic, Coptic, Gothic, and many other writing systems.
The Greek language holds a very important place in the history of the Western world. Beginning with the epics of Homer, ancient Greek literature includes many works of lasting importance in the European canon. Greek is also the language in which many of the foundational texts in science and philosophy were originally composed. The New Testament of the Christian Bible was also originally written in Greek.[6][7] Together with the Latin texts and traditions of the Roman world, the Greek texts and Greek societies of antiquity constitute the objects of study of the discipline of Classics.
During antiquity, Greek was by far the most widely spoken lingua franca in the Mediterranean world.[8] It eventually became the official language of the Byzantine Empire and developed into Medieval Greek.[9] In its modern form, Greek is the official language of Greece and Cyprus and one of the 24 official languages of the European Union. It is spoken by at least 13.5 million people today in Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Albania, Turkey, and the many other countries of the Greek diaspora.
Greek roots have been widely used for centuries and continue to be widely used to coin new words in other languages; Greek and Latin are the predominant sources of international scientific vocabulary.
Idealised portrayal of the author Homer
History[edit]
Main article: History of Greek
Greek has been spoken in the Balkan peninsula since around the 3rd millennium BC,[10] or possibly earlier.[11] The earliest written evidence is a Linear B clay tablet found in Messenia that dates to between 1450 and 1350 BC,[12] making Greek the world's oldest recorded living language. Among the Indo-European languages, its date of earliest written attestation is matched only by the now-extinct Anatolian languages.
Periods[edit]
Proto-Greek-speaking area according to linguist Vladimir I. Georgiev
The Greek language is conventionally divided into the following periods:
Proto-Greek: the unrecorded but assumed last ancestor of all known varieties of Greek. The unity of Proto-Greek would have ended as Hellenic migrants entered the Greek peninsula sometime in the Neolithic era or the Bronze Age.[note 1]
Mycenaean Greek: the language of the Mycenaean civilization. It is recorded in the Linear B script on tablets dating from the 15th century BC onwards.
Ancient Greek: in its various dialects, the language of the Archaic and Classical periods of the ancient Greek civilization. It was widely known throughout the Roman Empire. Ancient Greek fell into disuse in Western Europe in the Middle Ages but remained officially in use in the Byzantine world and was reintroduced to the rest of Europe with the Fall of Constantinople and Greek migration to western Europe.
Koine Greek (also known as Hellenistic Greek): The fusion of Ionian with Attic, the dialect of Athens, began the process that resulted in the creation of the first common Greek dialect, which became a lingua franca across the Eastern Mediterranean and Near East. Koine Greek can be initially traced within the armies and conquered territories of Alexander the Great; after the Hellenistic colonization of the known world, it was spoken from Egypt to the fringes of India. After the Roman conquest of Greece, an unofficial bilingualism of Greek and Latin was established in the city of Rome and Koine Greek became the first or second language in the Roman Empire. The origin of Christianity can also be traced through Koine Greek because the Apostles used this form of the language to spread Christianity. Because it was the original language of the New Testament, and the Old Testament was translated into it as the Septuagint, that variety of Koine Greek may be referred to as New Testament Greek or sometimes Biblical Greek.
Distribution of varieties of Greek in Anatolia, 1910. Demotic in yellow. Pontic in orange. Cappadocian Greek in green, with green dots indicating individual Cappadocian Greek villages.[13]
Medieval Greek (also known as Byzantine Greek): the continuation of Koine Greek up to the demise of the Byzantine Empire in the 15th century. Medieval Greek is a cover phrase for a whole continuum of different speech and writing styles, ranging from vernacular continuations of spoken Koine that were already approaching Modern Greek in many respects, to highly learned forms imitating classical Attic. Much of the written Greek that was used as the official language of the Byzantine Empire was an eclectic middle-ground variety based on the tradition of written Koine.
Modern Greek (also known as Neo-Hellenic):[14] Stemming from Medieval Greek, Modern Greek usages can be traced in the Byzantine period, as early as the 11th century. It is the language used by the modern Greeks, and, apart from Standard Modern Greek, there are several dialects of it.
Diglossia[edit]
Main article: Greek language question
In the modern era, the Greek language entered a state of diglossia: the coexistence of vernacular and archaizing written forms of the language. What came to be known as the Greek language question was a polarization between two competing varieties of Modern Greek: Dimotiki, the vernacular form of Modern Greek proper, and Katharevousa, meaning 'purified', a compromise between Dimotiki and Ancient Greek developed in the early 19th century that was used for literary and official purposes in the newly formed Greek state. In 1976, Dimotiki was declared the official language of Greece, after having incorporated features of Katharevousa and thus giving birth to Standard Modern Greek, used today for all official purposes and in education.[15]
Historical unity[edit]
The distribution of major modern Greek dialect areas
The historical unity and continuing identity between the various stages of the Greek language are often emphasized. Although Greek has undergone morphological and phonological changes comparable to those seen in other languages, never since classical antiquity has its cultural, literary, and orthographic tradition been interrupted to the extent that one can speak of a new language emerging. Greek speakers today still tend to regard literary works of ancient Greek as part of their own rather than a foreign language.[16] It is also often stated that the historical changes have been relatively slight compared with some other languages. According to one estimation, "Homeric Greek is probably closer to Demotic than 12-century Middle English is to modern spoken English".[17]
Geographic distribution[edit]
Further information: Greeks and Greek diaspora
Geographic distribution of Greek language in the Russian Empire (1897 census)
Greek is spoken today by at least 13 million people, principally in Greece and Cyprus along with a sizable Greek-speaking minority in Albania near the Greek-Albanian border.[14] A significant percentage of Albania's population has  knowledge of the Greek language due in part to the Albanian wave of immigration to Greece in the 1980s and '90s and the Greek community in the country. Prior to the Greco-Turkish War and the resulting population exchange in 1923 a very large population of Greek-speakers also existed in Turkey, though very few remain today.[2] A small Greek-speaking community is also found in Bulgaria near the Greek-Bulgarian border. Greek is also spoken worldwide by the sizable Greek diaspora which has notable communities in the United States, Australia, Canada, South Africa, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Russia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and throughout the European Union, especially in Germany.
Historically, significant Greek-speaking communities and regions were found throughout the Eastern Mediterranean, in what are today Southern Italy, Turkey, Cyprus, Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, Israel, Egypt, and Libya; in the area of the Black Sea, in what are today Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, Russia, Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan; and, to a lesser extent, in the Western Mediterranean in and around colonies such as Massalia, Monoikos, and Mainake. It was also used as the official language of government and religion in the Christian Nubian kingdoms, for most of their history.[18]
Official status[edit]
Greek, in its modern form, is the official language of Greece, where it is spoken by almost the entire population.[19] It is also the official language of Cyprus (nominally alongside Turkish).[20] Because of the membership of Greece and Cyprus in the European Union, Greek is one of the organization's 24 official languages.[21] Greek is recognized as a minority language in Albania, and used co-officially in some of its municipalities, in the districts of Gjirokastër and Sarandë.[22] It is also an official minority language in the regions of Apulia and Calabria in Italy. In the framework of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, Greek is protected and promoted officially as a regional and minority language in Armenia, Hungary, Romania, and Ukraine.[23]
Characteristics[edit]
See also: Ancient Greek grammar, Koine Greek grammar, and Modern Greek grammar
The phonology, morphology, syntax, and vocabulary of the language show both conservative and innovative tendencies across the entire attestation of the language from the ancient to the modern period. The division into conventional periods is, as with all such periodizations, relatively arbitrary, especially because, in all periods, Ancient Greek has enjoyed high prestige, and the literate borrowed heavily from it.
Phonology[edit]
Main articles: Modern Greek phonology, Koine Greek phonology, and Ancient Greek phonology
Spoken Modern Greek
Across its history, the syllabic structure of Greek has varied little: Greek shows a mixed syllable structure, permitting complex syllabic onsets but very restricted codas. It has only oral vowels and a fairly stable set of consonantal contrasts. The main phonological changes occurred during the Hellenistic and Roman period (see Koine Greek phonology for details):
replacement of the pitch accent with a stress accent.
simplification of the system of vowels and diphthongs: loss of vowel length distinction, monophthongisation of most diphthongs and several steps in a chain shift of vowels towards /i/ (iotacism).
development of the voiceless aspirated plosives /pʰ/ and /tʰ/ to the voiceless fricatives /f/ and /θ/, respectively; the similar development of /kʰ/ to /x/ may have taken place later (the phonological changes are not reflected in the orthography, and both earlier and later phonemes are written with φ, θ, and χ).
development of the voiced plosives /b/, /d/, and /ɡ/ to their voiced fricative counterparts /β/ (later /v/), /ð/, and /ɣ/.
Morphology[edit]
In all its stages, the morphology of Greek shows an extensive set of productive derivational affixes, a limited but productive system of compounding[24] and a rich inflectional system. Although its morphological categories have been fairly stable over time, morphological changes are present throughout, particularly in the nominal and verbal systems. The major change in the nominal morphology since the classical stage was the disuse of the dative case (its functions being largely taken over by the genitive). The verbal system has lost the infinitive, the synthetically-formed future, and perfect tenses and the optative mood. Many have been replaced by periphrastic (analytical) forms.
Nouns and adjectives[edit]
Pronouns show distinctions in person (1st, 2nd, and 3rd), number (singular, dual, and plural in the ancient language; singular and plural alone in later stages), and gender (masculine, feminine, and neuter), and decline for case (from six cases in the earliest forms attested to four in the modern language).[note 2] Nouns, articles, and adjectives show all the distinctions except for a person. Both attributive and predicative adjectives agree with the noun.
Verbs[edit]
The inflectional categories of the Greek verb have likewise remained largely the same over the course of the language's history but with significant changes in the number of distinctions within each category and their morphological expression. Greek verbs have synthetic inflectional forms for:
Ancient Greek
Modern Greek
Person
first, second and third
also second person formal
Number
singular, dual and plural
singular and plural
tense
present, past and future
past and non-past (future is expressed by a periphrastic construction)
aspect
imperfective, perfective (traditionally called aorist) and perfect (sometimes also called perfective; see note about terminology)
imperfective and perfective/aorist (perfect is expressed by a periphrastic construction)
mood
indicative, subjunctive, imperative and optative
indicative, subjunctive,[note 3] and imperative (other modal functions are expressed by periphrastic constructions)
Voice
active, medio-passive, and passive
active and medio-passive
Syntax[edit]
Many aspects of the syntax of Greek have remained constant: verbs agree with their subject only, the use of the surviving cases is largely intact (nominative for subjects and predicates, accusative for objects of most verbs and many prepositions, genitive for possessors), articles precede nouns, adpositions are largely prepositional, relative clauses follow the noun they modify and relative pronouns are clause-initial. However, the morphological changes also have their counterparts in the syntax, and there are also significant differences between the syntax of the ancient and that of the modern form of the language. Ancient Greek made great use of participial constructions and of constructions involving the infinitive, and the modern variety lacks the infinitive entirely (employing a raft of new periphrastic constructions instead) and uses participles more restrictively. The loss of the dative led to a rise of prepositional indirect objects (and the use of the genitive to directly mark these as well). Ancient Greek tended to be verb-final, but neutral word order in the modern language is VSO or SVO.
Vocabulary[edit]
Modern Greek inherits most of its vocabulary from Ancient Greek, which in turn is an Indo-European language, but also includes a number of borrowings from the languages of the populations that inhabited Greece before the arrival of Proto-Greeks,[25] some documented in Mycenaean texts; they include a large number of Greek toponyms. The form and meaning of many words have changed. Loanwords (words of foreign origin) have entered the language, mainly from Latin, Venetian, and Turkish. During the older periods of Greek, loanwords into Greek acquired Greek inflections, thus leaving only a foreign root word. Modern borrowings (from the 20th century on), especially from French and English, are typically not inflected; other modern borrowings are derived from Albanian, South Slavic (Macedonian/Bulgarian) and Eastern Romance languages (Aromanian and Megleno-Romanian).
Greek loanwords in other languages[edit]
Further information: English words of Greek origin and List of Greek and Latin roots in English
Greek words have been widely borrowed into other languages, including English. Example words include: mathematics, physics, astronomy, democracy, philosophy, athletics, theatre, rhetoric, baptism, evangelist, etc. Moreover, Greek words and word elements continue to be productive as a basis for coinages: anthropology, photography, telephony, isomer, biomechanics, cinematography, etc. Together with Latin words, they form the foundation of international scientific and technical vocabulary; for example, all words ending in –logy ("discourse"). There are many English words of Greek origin.[26][27]
Classification[edit]
Greek is an independent branch of the Indo-European language family. The ancient language most closely related to it may be ancient Macedonian, which, by most accounts, was a distinct dialect of Greek itself.[28][29][30][31] Aside of the Macedonian question, current consensus regards Phrygian as the closest relative of Greek, since they share a number of phonological, morphological and lexical isoglosses, with some being exclusive between them;[28][32][33] thus, scholars have proposed a Graeco-Phrygian subgroup out of which Greek and Phrygian originated.[28][34][35][36]
Among living languages, some Indo-Europeanists suggest that Greek may be most closely related to Armenian (see Graeco-Armenian) or the Indo-Iranian languages (see Graeco-Aryan), but little definitive evidence has been found.[37][38] In addition, Albanian has also been considered somewhat related to Greek and Armenian, and it has been proposed that they all form a higher-order subgroup along with other extinct languages of the ancient Balkans; this higher-order subgroup is usually termed Palaeo-Balkan, and Greek has a central position in it.[39][40]
Writing system[edit]
Greek alphabet
 Αα Alpha Νν Nu Ββ Beta Ξξ Xi Γγ Gamma Οο Omicron Δδ Delta Ππ Pi Εε Epsilon Ρρ Rho Ζζ Zeta Σσς Sigma Ηη Eta Ττ Tau Θθ Theta Υυ Upsilon Ιι Iota Φφ Phi Κκ Kappa Χχ Chi Λλ Lambda Ψψ Psi Μμ Mu Ωω Omega
History
 Archaic local variants
ϜͰϺϘͲͶ 
Diacritics
Ligatures
 Numerals
ϛ (6)ϟ (90)ϡ (900) 
Use in other languages
Bactrian
Coptic
Albanian
Related topics
Use as scientific symbols
 Category
vte
See also: Greek Braille
Linear B[edit]
Main article: Linear B
Linear B, attested as early as the late 15th century BC, was the first script used to write Greek.[41] It is basically a syllabary, which was finally deciphered by Michael Ventris and John Chadwick in the 1950s (its precursor, Linear A, has not been deciphered and most likely encodes a non-Greek language).[41] The language of the Linear B texts, Mycenaean Greek, is the earliest known form of Greek.[41]
Cypriot syllabary[edit]
Main article: Cypriot syllabary
Greek inscription in Cypriot syllabic script
Another similar system used to write the Greek language was the Cypriot syllabary (also a descendant of Linear A via the intermediate Cypro-Minoan syllabary), which is closely related to Linear B but uses somewhat different syllabic conventions to represent phoneme sequences. The Cypriot syllabary is attested in Cyprus from the 11th century BC until its gradual abandonment in the late Classical period, in favor of the standard Greek alphabet.[42]
Greek alphabet[edit]
Main articles: Greek alphabet and Greek orthography
Ancient epichoric variants of the Greek alphabet from Euboea, Ionia, Athens, and Corinth comparing to modern Greek
Greek has been written in the Greek alphabet since approximately the 9th century BC. It was created by modifying the Phoenician alphabet, with the innovation of adopting certain letters to represent the vowels. The variant of the alphabet in use today is essentially the late Ionic variant, introduced for writing classical Attic in 403 BC. In classical Greek, as in classical Latin, only upper-case letters existed. The lower-case Greek letters were developed much later by medieval scribes to permit a faster, more convenient cursive writing style with the use of ink and quill.
The Greek alphabet consists of 24 letters, each with an uppercase (majuscule) and lowercase (minuscule) form. The letter sigma has an additional lowercase form (ς) used in the final position of a word:
upper case
Α
Β
Γ
Δ
Ε
Ζ
Η
Θ
Ι
Κ
Λ
Μ
Ν
Ξ
Ο
Π
Ρ
Σ
Τ
Υ
Φ
Χ
Ψ
Ω
lower case
α
β
γ
δ
ε
ζ
η
θ
ι
κ
λ
μ
ν
ξ
ο
π
ρ
σς
τ
υ
φ
χ
ψ
ω
Diacritics[edit]
Main article: Greek diacritics
In addition to the letters, the Greek alphabet features a number of diacritical signs: three different accent marks (acute, grave, and circumflex), originally denoting different shapes of pitch accent on the stressed vowel; the so-called breathing marks (rough and smooth breathing), originally used to signal presence or absence of word-initial /h/; and the diaeresis, used to mark the full syllabic value of a vowel that would otherwise be read as part of a diphthong. These marks were introduced during the course of the Hellenistic period. Actual usage of the grave in handwriting saw a rapid decline in favor of uniform usage of the acute during the late 20th century, and it has only been retained in typography.
After the writing reform of 1982, most diacritics are no longer used. Since then, Greek has been written mostly in the simplified monotonic orthography (or monotonic system), which employs only the acute accent and the diaeresis. The traditional system, now called the polytonic orthography (or polytonic system), is still used internationally for the writing of Ancient Greek.
Punctuation[edit]
In Greek, the question mark is written as the English semicolon, while the functions of the colon and semicolon are performed by a raised point (•), known as the ano teleia (άνω τελεία). In Greek the comma also functions as a silent letter in a handful of Greek words, principally distinguishing ό,τι (ó,ti, 'whatever') from ότι (óti, 'that').[43]
Ancient Greek texts often used scriptio continua ('continuous writing'), which means that ancient authors and scribes would write word after word with no spaces or punctuation between words to differentiate or mark boundaries.[44] Boustrophedon, or bi-directional text, was also used in Ancient Greek.
Latin alphabet[edit]
Greek has occasionally been written in the Latin script, especially in areas under Venetian rule or by Greek Catholics. The term Frankolevantinika / Φραγκολεβαντίνικα applies when the Latin script is used to write Greek in the cultural ambit of Catholicism (because Frankos / Φράγκος is an older Greek term for West-European dating to when most of (Roman Catholic Christian) West Europe was under the control of the Frankish Empire). Frankochiotika / Φραγκοχιώτικα (meaning 'Catholic Chiot') alludes to the significant presence of Catholic missionaries based on the island of Chios. Additionally, the term Greeklish is often used when the Greek language is written in a Latin script in online communications.[45]
The Latin script is nowadays used by the Greek-speaking communities of Southern Italy.
Hebrew alphabet[edit]
The Yevanic dialect was written by Romaniote and Constantinopolitan Karaite Jews using the Hebrew Alphabet.[46]
Arabic alphabet[edit]
Some Greek Muslims from Crete wrote their Cretan Greek in the Arabic alphabet. The same happened among Epirote Muslims in Ioannina. This usage is sometimes called aljamiado, as when Romance languages are written in the Arabic alphabet.[47]
Example text[edit]
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Greek:
Όλοι οι άνθρωποι γεννιούνται ελεύθεροι και ίσοι στην αξιοπρέπεια και τα δικαιώματα. Είναι προικισμένοι με λογική και συνείδηση, και οφείλουν να συμπεριφέρονται μεταξύ τους με πνεύμα αδελφοσύνης.[48]
Transcription of the example text into Latin alphabet:
Óloi oi ánthropoi gennioúntai eléftheroi kai ísoi stin axioprépeia kai ta dikaiómata. Eínai proikisménoi me logikí kai syneídisi, kai ofeíloun na symperiférontai metaxý tous me pnévma adelfosýnis.
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in English:
"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood."[49]
See also[edit]
Greece portalLanguage portal
List of medical roots, suffixes and prefixes
Notes[edit]
^ A comprehensive overview in J.T. Hooker's Mycenaean Greece (Hooker 1976, Chapter 2: "Before the Mycenaean Age", pp. 11–33 and passim); for a different hypothesis excluding massive migrations and favoring an autochthonous scenario, see Colin Renfrew's "Problems in the General Correlation of Archaeological and Linguistic Strata in Prehistoric Greece: The Model of Autochthonous Origin" (Renfrew 1973, pp. 263–276, especially p. 267) in Bronze Age Migrations by R.A. Crossland and A. Birchall, eds. (1973).
^ The four cases that are found in all stages of Greek are the nominative, genitive, accusative, and vocative. The dative/locative of Ancient Greek disappeared in the late Hellenistic period, and the instrumental case of Mycenaean Greek disappeared in the Archaic period.
^ There is no particular morphological form that can be identified as 'subjunctive' in the modern language, but the term is sometimes encountered in descriptions even if the most complete modern grammar (Holton et al. 1997) does not use it and calls certain traditionally-'subjunctive' forms 'dependent'. Most Greek linguists advocate abandoning the traditional terminology (Anna Roussou and Tasos Tsangalidis 2009, in Meletes gia tin Elliniki Glossa, Thessaloniki, Anastasia Giannakidou 2009 "Temporal semantics and polarity: The dependency of the subjunctive revisited", Lingua); see Modern Greek grammar for explanation.
Footnotes[edit]
^ Greek at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)Ancient Greek at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)Cappadocian Greek at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)Mycenaean Greek at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)Pontic at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)Tsakonian at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)(Additional references under 'Language codes' in the information box)
^ a b "Greek language". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Retrieved 29 April 2014.
^ Haviland, William A.; Prins, Harald E. L.; Walrath, Dana; McBride, Bunny (2013). "Chapter 15: Language and Communication". Anthropology: The Human Challenge. Cengage Learning. p. 394. ISBN 978-1-285-67758-3. Most of the alphabets used today descended from the Phoenician one. The Greeks adopted it about 2,800 years ago, modifying the characters to suit sounds in their own language.
^ Comrie, Bernard (1987). The World's Major Languages. Routledge (published 2018). ISBN 978-1-317-29049-0. ... the Greek alphabet has served the Greek language well for some 2,800 years since its introduction into Greece in the tenth or ninth century BC.
^ Adrados, Francisco Rodríguez (2005). A history of the Greek language : from its origins to the present. Leiden: Brill. ISBN 978-90-04-12835-4. OCLC 59712402.
^ Kurt Aland, Barbara Aland The text of the New Testament: an introduction to the critical 1995 p. 52.
^ Archibald Macbride Hunter Introducing the New Testament 1972 p. 9.
^ Malkin, Irad (2011). A small Greek world : networks in the Ancient Mediterranean. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199734818.001.0001. ISBN 9780199918553.
^ Manuel, Germaine Catherine (1989). A study of the preservation of the classical tradition in the education, language, and literature of the Byzantine Empire. HVD ALEPH.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ Renfrew 2003, p. 35; Georgiev 1981, p. 192.
^ Gray & Atkinson 2003, pp. 437–438; Atkinson & Gray 2006, p. 102.
^ "Ancient Tablet Found: Oldest Readable Writing in Europe". Culture. 1 April 2011. Retrieved 20 January 2022.
^ Dawkins & Halliday 1916.
^ a b "Greek". Ethnologue. Retrieved 12 April 2020.
^ Peter, Mackridge (1985). The modern Greek language : a descriptive analysis of standard modern Greek. Oxford [Oxfordshire]: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-815770-0. OCLC 11134463.
^ Browning 1983.
^ Alexiou 1982, p. 161.
^ Burstein, Stanley (2 November 2020). "When Greek was an African Language". Center for Hellenic Studies. The revelation of the place of Greek cultural elements in the lives of these kingdoms has been gradual and is still ongoing, but already it is clear that Greek was the official language of government and religion for most of their history. ... Greek remained the official language of Nubian Christianity right to the end of its long and remarkable history. ... But these three factors do suggest how Greek and Christianity could have become so intimately intertwined and so entrenched in Nubian life and culture by the seventh century AD that Greek could resist both Coptic and Arabic and survive for almost another millennium before both disappeared with the conversion of Nubia to Islam in the sixteenth century AD.
^ "Greece". The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved 23 January 2010.
^ "The Constitution of Cyprus, App. D., Part 1, Art. 3". Archived from the original on 7 April 2012. states that The official languages of the Republic are Greek and Turkish. However, the official status of Turkish is only nominal in the Greek-dominated Republic of Cyprus; in practice, outside Turkish-dominated Northern Cyprus, Turkish is little used; see A. Arvaniti (2006): Erasure as a Means of Maintaining Diglossia in Cyprus, San Diego Linguistics Papers 2: pp. 25–38 [27].
^ "The EU at a Glance – Languages in the EU". Europa. European Union. Archived from the original on 21 June 2013. Retrieved 30 July 2010.
^ Bytyçi, Enver (2022). In the Shadows of Albania-China Relations (1960–1978). Cambridge Scholars Publishing. p. 20. ISBN 978-1-5275-7909-5. Albania's official language is Albanian, but in municipalities where minorities reside, the languages of these minorities are also used, including Greek in several municipalities in Gjirokastra and Saranda, and Macedonian in a municipality in the East of the country.
^ "List of Declarations Made with Respect to Treaty No. 148". Council of Europe. Archived from the original on 10 April 2020. Retrieved 8 December 2008.
^ Ralli 2001, pp. 164–203.
^ Beekes 2009.
^ Scheler 1977.
^ "Πόσο "ελληνικές" είναι οι ξένες γλώσσες". NewsIt. 18 November 2019.
^ a b c Olander 2022, pp. 12, 14; van Beek 2022, pp. 190–191, 193
^ Crespo, Emilio (2018). "The Softening of Obstruent Consonants in the Macedonian Dialect". In Giannakis, Georgios K.; Crespo, Emilio; Filos, Panagiotis (eds.). Studies in Ancient Greek Dialects: From Central Greece to the Black Sea. Walter de Gruyter. p. 329. ISBN 978-3-11-053081-0.
^ Hatzopoulos, Miltiades B. (2018). "Recent Research in the Ancient Macedonian Dialect: Consolidation and New Perspectives". In Giannakis, Georgios K.; Crespo, Emilio; Filos, Panagiotis (eds.). Studies in Ancient Greek Dialects: From Central Greece to the Black Sea. Walter de Gruyter. p. 299. ISBN 978-3-11-053081-0.
^ Babiniotis 1992, pp. 29–40; Dosuna 2012, pp. 65–78
^ Woodhouse 2009, p. 171: "This question is of course only just separable from the question of which languages within Indo-European are most closely related to Phrygian, which has also been hotly debated. A turning point in this debate was Kortlandt's (1988) demonstration on the basis of shared sound changes that Thraco-Armenian had separated from Phrygian and other originally Balkan languages at an early stage. The consensus has now returned to regarding Greek as the closest relative."
^ Obrador-Cursach 2020, pp. 238–239: "To the best of our current knowledge, Phrygian was closely related to Greek. This affirmation is consistent with the vision offered by Neumann (1988: 23), Brixhe (2006) and Ligorio and Lubotsky (2018: 1816) and with many observations given by ancient authors. Both languages share 34 of the 36 features considered in this paper, some of them of great significance: ... The available data suggest that Phrygian and Greek coexisted broadly from pre-historic to historic times, and both belong to a common linguistic area (Brixhe 2006: 39–44)."
^ Obrador-Cursach 2020, p. 243: "With the current state of our knowledge, we can affirm that Phrygian is closely related to Greek. This is not a surprising conclusion: ancient sources and modern scholars agree that Phrygians did not live far from Greece in pre-historic times. Moreover, the last half century of scientific study of Phrygian has approached both languages and developed the hypothesis of a Proto-Greco-Phrygian language, to the detriment to other theories like Phrygio-Armenian or Thraco-Phrygian."
^ Ligorio & Lubotsky 2018, pp. 1816–1817: "Phrygian is most closely related to Greek. The two languages share a few unique innovations, ... It is therefore very likely that both languages emerged from a single language, which was spoken in the Balkans at the end of the third millennium BCE."
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin, eds. (2017). "Graeco-Phrygian". Glottolog 3.0. Jena, Germany: Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History.
^ van Beek 2022, pp. 193–197
^ Renfrew 1990; Gamkrelidze & Ivanov 1990, pp. 110–116; Renfrew 2003, pp. 17–48; Gray & Atkinson 2003, pp. 435–439
^ Olsen & Thorsø 2022, pp. 209–217; Hyllested & Joseph 2022, pp. 225–226, 228–229, 231–241
^ Holm 2008, pp. 634–635
^ a b c T., Hooker, J. (1980). Linear B : an introduction. Bristol: Bristol Classical Press. ISBN 978-0-906515-69-3. OCLC 7326206.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
^ "Cypriot syllabary". Britannica Academic. Retrieved 1 August 2017.
^ Nicolas, Nick (2005). "Greek Unicode Issues: Punctuation". Archived from the original on 6 August 2012. Retrieved 7 October 2014.
^ Hugoe, Matthews Peter (March 2014). The concise Oxford dictionary of linguistics. Oxford University Press. (Third ed.). Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-967512-8. OCLC 881847972.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ Androutsopoulos 2009, pp. 221–249.
^ "Yevanic alphabet, pronunciation and language". www.omniglot.com. Retrieved 18 April 2020.
^ Kotzageorgis, Phokion (2010). Gruber, Christiane J.; Colby, Frederick Stephen (eds.). The Prophet's Ascension: Cross-cultural Encounters with the Islamic Mi'rāj Tales. Indiana University Press. p. 297. ISBN 978-0-253-35361-0. The element that makes this text a unicum is that it is written in Greek script. In the Ottoman Empire, the primary criterion for the selection of an alphabet in which to write was religion. Thus, people who did not speak—or even know—the official language of their religion used to write their religious texts in the languages that they knew, though in the alphabet where the sacred texts of that religion were written. Thus, the Grecophone Catholics of Chios wrote using the Latin alphabet, but in the Greek language (frangochiotika); the Turcophone Orthodox Christians of Cappadocia wrote their Turkish texts using the Greek alphabet (karamanlidika); and the Grecophone Muslims of the Greek peninsula wrote in Greek language using the Arabic alphabet (tourkogianniotika, tourkokretika). Our case is much stranger, since it is a quite early example for that kind of literature and because it is largely concerned with religious themes."; p. 306. The audience for the Greek Mi'rājnāma was most certainly Greek-speaking Muslims, in particular the so-called Tourkogianniotes (literally, the Turks of Jannina). Although few examples have been discovered as yet, it seems that these people developed a religious literature mainly composed in verse form. This literary form constituted the mainstream of Greek Aljamiado literature from the middle of the seventeenth century until the population exchange between Greece and Turkey in 1923. Tourkogianniotes were probably of Christian origin and were Islamized sometime during the seventeenth century. They did not speak any language other than Greek. Thus, even their frequency in attending mosque services did not provide them with the necessary knowledge about their faith. Given their low level of literacy, one important way that they could learn about their faith was to listen to religiously edifying texts such as the Greek Mi'rājnāma.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". ohchr.org.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations.
References[edit]
Alexiou, Margaret (1982). "Diglossia in Greece". In Haas, William (ed.). Standard Languages: Spoken and Written. Manchester: Manchester University Press. pp. 156–192. ISBN 978-0-389-20291-2.
Androutsopoulos, Jannis (2009). "'Greeklish': Transliteration Practice and Discourse in a Setting of Computer-Mediated Digraphia" (PDF). In Georgakopoulou, Alexandra; Silk, Michael (eds.). Standard Languages and Language Standards: Greek, Past and Present. Aldershot: Ashgate Publishing Limited. pp. 221–249.[permanent dead link]
Atkinson, Quentin D.; Gray, Russel D. (2006). "Chapter 8: How Old is the Indo-European Language Family? Illumination or More Moths to the Flame?". In Forster, Peter; Renfrew, Colin (eds.). Phylogenetic Methods and the Prehistory of Languages. Cambridge, England: McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research. pp. 91–109. ISBN 978-1-902937-33-5.
Babiniotis, George (1992). "The Question of Mediae in Ancient Macedonian Greek Reconsidered". In Brogyanyi, Bela; Lipp, Reiner (eds.). Historical Philology: Greek, Latin and Romance. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company. pp. 29–40. ISBN 9789027277473.
Beekes, Robert Stephen Paul (2009). Etymological Dictionary of Greek. Leiden and Boston: Brill. ISBN 978-90-04-17418-4.
Browning, Robert (1983) [1969]. Medieval and Modern Greek. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-23488-7.
Dawkins, Richard McGillivray; Halliday, William Reginald (1916). Modern Greek in Asia Minor: A Study of Dialect of Silly, Cappadocia and Pharasa with Grammar, Texts, Translations and Glossary. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press.
Dosuna, Julián Víctor Méndez (2012). "Ancient Macedonian as a Greek Dialect: A Critical Survey on Recent Work". In Giannakis, Georgios K. (ed.). Ancient Macedonia: Language, History and Culture (in Greek). Thessaloniki: Centre for the Greek Language. pp. 65–78.
Gamkrelidze, Tamaz V.; Ivanov, Vyacheslav (March 1990). "The Early History of Indo-European Languages". Scientific American. 262 (3): 110–116. Bibcode:1990SciAm.262c.110G. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0390-110. Archived from the original on 6 January 2014.
Georgiev, Vladimir Ivanov (1981). Introduction to the History of the Indo-European Languages. Sofia: Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. ISBN 9789535172611.
Gray, Russel D.; Atkinson, Quentin D. (2003). "Language-tree Divergence Times Support the Anatolian Theory of Indo-European Origin". Nature. 426 (6965): 435–439. Bibcode:2003Natur.426..435G. doi:10.1038/nature02029. PMID 14647380. S2CID 42340.
Hamp, Eric P. (August 2013). "The Expansion of the Indo-European Languages: An Indo-Europeanist's Evolving View" (PDF). Sino-Platonic Papers. 239. Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 February 2014.
Holm, Hans J. (2008). "The Distribution of Data in Word Lists and its Impact on the Subgrouping of Languages". In Preisach, Christine; Burkhardt, Hans; Schmidt-Thieme, Lars; Decker, Reinhold (eds.). Data Analysis, Machine Learning, and Applications. Proceedings of the 31st Annual Conference of the Gesellschaft für Klassifikation e.V., Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, March 7–9, 2007. Berlin-Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag. pp. 628–636. ISBN 978-3-540-78246-9.
Hooker, J.T. (1976). Mycenaean Greece. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. ISBN 9780710083791.
Jeffries, Ian (2002). Eastern Europe at the Turn of the Twenty-First Century: A Guide to the Economies in Transition. London and New York: Routledge (Taylor & Francis). ISBN 978-0-415-23671-3.
Ligorio, Orsat; Lubotsky, Alexander (2018). "Phrygian". In Klein, Jared; Joseph, Brian; Fritz, Matthias; Wenthe, Mark (eds.). Handbook of Comparative and Historical Indo-European Linguistics. Vol. 3. De Gruyter Mouton. pp. 1816–1831. doi:10.1515/9783110542431-022. hdl:1887/63481. ISBN 978-3-11-054243-1. S2CID 242082908.
Obrador-Cursach, Bartomeu (9 April 2020). "On the place of Phrygian among the Indo-European languages". Journal of Language Relationship. 17 (3–4): 233–245. doi:10.31826/jlr-2019-173-407. S2CID 215769896.
Olander, Thomas, ed. (2022). The Indo-European Language Family: A Phylogenetic Perspective. Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108758666. ISBN 978-1-108-49979-8. S2CID 161016819.
van Beek, Lucien. "Chapter 11: Greek". In Olander (2022).
Olsen, Birgit Anette; Thorsø, Rasmus. "Chapter 12: Armenian". In Olander (2022).
Hyllested, Adam; Joseph, Brian D. "Chapter 13: Albanian". In Olander (2022).
Ralli, Angeliki (2001). Μορφολογία [Morphology] (in Greek). Athens: Ekdoseis Pataki.
Renfrew, Colin (1973). "Problems in the General Correlation of Archaeological and Linguistic Strata in Prehistoric Greece: The Model of Autochthonous Origin". In Crossland, R. A.; Birchall, Ann (eds.). Bronze Age Migrations in the Aegean; Archaeological and Linguistic Problems in Greek Prehistory: Proceedings of the first International Colloquium on Aegean Prehistory, Sheffield. London: Gerald Duckworth and Company Limited. pp. 263–276. ISBN 978-0-7156-0580-6.
Renfrew, Colin (2003). "Time Depth, Convergence Theory, and Innovation in Proto-Indo-European: 'Old Europe' as a PIE Linguistic Area". In Bammesberger, Alfred; Vennemann, Theo (eds.). Languages in Prehistoric Europe. Heidelberg: Universitätsverlag Winter GmBH. pp. 17–48. ISBN 978-3-8253-1449-1.
Renfrew, Colin (1990) [1987]. Archaeology and Language: The Puzzle of Indo-European Origins. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-38675-3.
Scheler, Manfred (1977). Der englische Wortschatz [English Vocabulary] (in German). Berlin: E. Schmidt. ISBN 978-3-503-01250-3.
Tsitselikis, Konstantinos (2013). "A Surviving Treaty: The Lausanne Minority Protection in Greece and Turkey". In Henrard, Kristin (ed.). The Interrelation between the Right to Identity of Minorities and their Socio-economic Participation. Leiden and Boston: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers. pp. 287–315. ISBN 9789004244740.
Woodhouse, Robert (2009). "An overview of research on Phrygian from the nineteenth century to the present day". Studia Linguistica Universitatis Iagellonicae Cracoviensis. 126 (1): 167–188. doi:10.2478/v10148-010-0013-x. ISSN 2083-4624.
Further reading[edit]
Allen, W. Sidney (1968). Vox Graeca – A Guide to the Pronunciation of Classical Greek. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-20626-6.
Crosby, Henry Lamar; Schaeffer, John Nevin (1928). An Introduction to Greek. Boston, MA; New York, NY: Allyn and Bacon, Inc.
Dionysius of Thrace. Bibliotheca Augustana Τέχνη Γραμματική [Art of Grammar] (in Greek).
Holton, David; Mackridge, Peter; Philippaki-Warburton, Irene (1997). Greek: A Comprehensive Grammar of the Modern Language. London and New York: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-10002-1.
Horrocks, Geoffrey (1997). Greek: A History of the Language and Its Speakers. London and New York: Longman Linguistics Library (Addison Wesley Longman Limited). ISBN 978-0-582-30709-4.
Krill, Richard M. (1990). Greek and Latin in English Today. Wauconda, IL: Bolchazy-Carducci Publishers. ISBN 978-0-86516-241-9.
Mallory, James P. (1997). "Greek Language". In Mallory, James P.; Adams, Douglas Q. (eds.). Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture. Chicago, IL: Fitzroy Dearborn Publishers. pp. 240–246. ISBN 9781884964985.
Newton, Brian (1972). The Generative Interpretation of Dialect: A Study of Modern Greek Phonology. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-08497-0.
Sihler, Andrew L. (1995). New Comparative Grammar of Greek and Latin. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-508345-3.
Smyth, Herbert Weir; Messing, Gordon (1956) [1920]. Greek Grammar. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-36250-5.
External links[edit]
 Standard Greek edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
 Pontic Greek edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikibooks has more on the topic of: Greek language
For a list of words relating to Greek language, see the Greek language category of words in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Ancient Greek test of Wikipedia at Wikimedia Incubator
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Greek language.
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Greek.
General background
Greek Language, Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia.
The Greek Language and Linguistics Gateway, useful information on the history of the Greek language, application of modern Linguistics to the study of Greek, and tools for learning Greek.
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, The Greek Language Portal, a portal for Greek language and linguistic education.
The Perseus Project has many useful pages for the study of classical languages and literatures, including dictionaries.
Ancient Greek Tutorials, Berkeley Language Center of the University of California, Berkeley
Language learning
Wikiquote has quotations related to Greek language.
Hellenistic Greek Lessons Greek-Language.com provides a free online grammar of Hellenistic Greek.
komvos.edu.gr, a website for the support of people who are being taught the Greek language.
New Testament Greek Archived 6 February 2009 at the Wayback Machine Three graduated courses designed to help students learn to read the Greek New Testament
Books on Greek language that are taught at schools in Greece (in Greek)
Greek Swadesh list of basic vocabulary words (from Wiktionary's Swadesh list appendix)
USA Foreign Service Institute Modern Greek basic course
Aversa, Alan. "Greek Inflector". Identifies the grammatical functions of all the words in sentences entered, using Perseus.
Dictionaries
Greek Lexical Aids, descriptions of both online lexicons (with appropriate links) and Greek Lexicons in Print.
The Greek Language Portal, dictionaries of all forms of Greek (Ancient, Hellenistic, Medieval, Modern)
scanned images from S. C. Woodhouse's English–Greek dictionary, 1910
Literature
Center for Neo-Hellenic Studies, a non-profit organization that promotes modern Greek literature and culture
Research lab of modern Greek philosophy, a large e-library of modern Greek texts/books
vteGreek languageOrigin and genealogy
Graeco-Aryan
Graeco-Armenian
Pre-Greek substrate
Graeco-Phrygian
Hellenic languages
Periods
Proto-Greek (c. 2900–1600 BC)
Mycenaean Greek (c. 1600–1100 BC)
Ancient Greek (c. 800–300 BC)
Koine Greek (c. 300 BC–AD 330)
Medieval Greek (c. 330–1453)
Modern Greek (since 1453)
VarietiesAncient
Arcadocypriot
Mycenaean Greek
Homeric
Aeolic
Attic and Ionic
Doric (Epirote)
Macedonian
Pamphylian
Koine
Hellenistic Koine
Jewish Koine Greek
Modern
Demotic
Katharevousa
Cappadocian
Misthiotika
Cretan
Cypriot
Himariote
Constantinople
Italiot
Greco/Calabrian
Griko/Apulian
Maniot
Mariupolitan
Pontic
Tsakonian
Yevanic
Phonology
Ancient (accent/teaching)
Koine
Standard Modern
Grammar
Ancient
Koine
Standard Modern
Writing systems
Cypriot syllabary
Linear B
Greek alphabet
History
Archaic forms
Attic numerals
Greek numerals
Orthography
Diacritics
Braille
Cyrillization and Romanization
Greeklish
Literature
Ancient
Byzantine
Modern
Promotion and study
Hellenic Foundation for Culture
Center for the Greek Language
Other
Eteocretan language
Eteocypriot language
Greek language question
Exonyms
Morphemes in English
Terms of endearment
Place names
Proverbs
Minoan language
Greek Language Day
Trojan language
Comparison of Ancient Greek dictionaries
vte Languages of GreeceOfficial language
Greek
Greek varieties
Cretan
Cappadocian
Pontic
Maniot
Romano-Greek
Tsakonian
Yevanic
Sign languages
Greek Sign Language
Other languages
Aromanian
Arvanitika
Macedonian Slavic
Megleno-Romanian
Pomak Bulgarian
Romani
Balkan Romani
Vlax Romani
Turkish
vte Languages of CyprusOfficial languages
Greek
Turkish
Semiofficial language
English
Vernacular languages
Cypriot Greek
Cypriot Turkish
Kurbet
Minority languages
Armenian
Cypriot Maronite Arabic
Russian
Sign languages
Cypriot Sign Language
Greek Sign Language
Turkish Sign Language
vte Languages of AlbaniaOfficial language
Albanian (Tosk - Gheg)
Minority languages
Aromanian
Bulgarian
Greek (Himariote)
Macedonian
Romani
Serbo-Croatian
Sign languages
Albanian Sign Language
vte Languages of TurkeyOfficial language
Turkish
Minority languages
Arabic
Armenian
Bulgarian
Domari
Georgian
Greek
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Laz
Zaza(ki)
Sign languages
Turkish Sign Language
Mardin Sign Language
Central Taurus Sign Language
Whistle languages
Turkish bird language
 Turkey portal
 Category
vte Languages of ItalyHistorical linguistic minorities: Albanian, Catalan, Croatian, French, Franco-Provençal, Friulian, Germanic, Greek, Ladin, Occitan, Romani, Sardinian, Slovene, WenzhouneseItalo-DalmatianItalian
Regional Italian
Tuscan
Florentine
Central
Central-Northern Latian
Marchigiano
Romanesco
Sabino
Intermediate Southern(Neapolitan)
Beneventano
Barese
Castelmezzanese
Cilentan
Cosentino
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Extreme Southern
Central-Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Other Italo-Dalmatianlanguages
Corsican
Gallurese
Sassarese
SardinianSardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Occitano-RomanceCatalan
Algherese
Occitan
Vivaro-Alpine
Mentonasc
Niçard
Gallo-RomanceFrench
Aostan
Franco-Provençal
Valdôtain
Faetar
Cellese
Gallo-ItalicLigurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Lombard
Western Lombard
Brianzöö dialects
Canzés
Bustocco and Legnanese
Comasco-Lecchese dialects
Comasco
Laghée
Vallassinese
Lecchese
Milanese
Ticinese
Ossolano
Varesino
Southwestern Lombard
Pavese
Novarese
Cremunés
Spasell
Eastern Lombard
Bergamasque
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Other Gallo-Italiclanguages
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Judeo-Italian
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Piedmontese
Venetian[a]Venetian
Fiuman
Triestine
Rhaeto-RomanceRhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Ladin
Cadorino
Fornes
Nones
Italy portalAlbanianArbëresh language
Arbëresh
Vaccarizzo Albanian
South SlavicSlovene
Brda
Gail Valley
Inner Carniolan
Istrian
Karst
Natisone Valley
Resian
Torre Valley
Serbo-Croatian
Slavomolisano
Triestine Serbian
GreekItaliot Greek
Calabrian Greek
Griko
GermanBavarian
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Other German dialects
Austrian German
Walser
Yiddish
Others
Hebrew
Italian Hebrew
Italian Sign Language
Romani
Sinte Romani
Wenzhounese
^ Venetian is either grouped with the rest of the Italo-Dalmatian or the Gallo-Italic languages, depending on the linguist.
vte Greece topics
Basic topics
Alphabetical index of topics
HistoryPrehistory (pre-1100 BC)
Neolithic Age
Bronze Age
Pelasgians
Cycladic civilization
Minoan civilization
Helladic period
Mycenaean period
Bronze Age collapse
Antiquity (1100 BC-330 AD)
Greek Dark Ages
Iron Age migrations
Archaic period
Greco-Persian Wars
Classical period
Delian and Peloponnesian League
Peloponnesian War
League of Corinth
Wars of Alexander the Great
Hellenistic period
Wars of the Diadochi
Roman–Greek wars
Roman era
Foundation of Constantinople
Middle Ages (330–1453)
Byzantine period
Persecution of paganism
Migration period
Plague of Justinian
Arab–Byzantine wars
Iconoclasm
Macedonian Renaissance
East–West Schism
Fourth Crusade
Frankokratia
Empire of Nicaea, Despotate of Epirus and Despotate of the Morea
Fall of Constantinople
Early modernand Modern era (post-1453)
Stato da Màr (Venetian Ionian islands, Kingdom of Candia)
Ottoman Greece
Modern Greek Enlightenment
Septinsular Republic
War of Independence
First Republic
Kingdom
Balkan Wars
World War I
National Schism
Greco-Turkish War
Second Republic
4th of August Regime
World War II
Civil war
Military junta
Democratization
Third Republic
By topic
Ancient regions and tribes
Byzantine and Ottoman Greeks
Christianization
Colonization
Coups d'état
Demographic (Modern)
Economic
Geographical name changes
Greek countries and regions
Greek Muslims
Renaissance scholars
Hellenic languages and Proto-Greek
Inventions and discoveries
Language question
Military
Monarchy (Kings and royal family)
Phanariotes
Polis
Population exchange of 1923
GeographyOverview
Borders
Cities (capital and co-capital)
Extreme points
Place names
Regions
Central Greece (Aetolia-Acarnania (Aetolia, Acarnania), Attica, Boeotia, Euboea, Evrytania, Phocis, Phthiotis, Saronic Islands)
Crete (Chania, Heraklion, Rethymno, Lasithi)
Cyclades (Andros, Delos, Kea, Kythnos, Milos, Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Santorini, Syros, Tinos)
Dodecanese (Agathonisi, Astypalaia, Chalki, Kalymnos, Karpathos, Kasos, Kos, Leipsoi, Leros, Nisyros, Patmos, Rhodes, Symi, Tilos, Kastellorizo)
Epirus (Arta, Ioannina, Preveza, Thesprotia)
Ionian Islands (Corfu, Ithaca, Kefalonia, Kythira, Lefkada, Paxi, Zakynthos)
Macedonia (Chalkidiki, Drama, Florina, Grevena, Imathia, Kastoria, Kavala, Kilkis, Kozani, Pella, Pieria, Serres, Thasos, Thessaloniki)
North Aegean islands (Chios, Ikaria, Lemnos, Lesbos, Samos)
Peloponnese (Arcadia, Argolis, Corinthia, Laconia, Messenia, Achaea, Elis)
Thessaly (Karditsa, Larissa, Magnesia, Trikala, Sporades)
Thrace (Evros, Rhodope, Xanthi)
Terrain
Canyons and gorges
Caves
Geology
Islands (Aegean, Ionian, Crete)
Mountains (Olympus, Pindus, Rhodopes)
Peninsulas
Plains
Volcanoes
Water
Coasts
Lakes
Rivers
Mediterranean Sea
Aegean Sea (Sea of Crete, Icarian Sea, Myrtoan Sea, Thracian Sea)
Ionian Sea
Libyan Sea
Environment
Climate
Natural disasters (earthquakes)
Ecoregions
Environmental issues
Forests
Mammals and birds
National Parks
Protected areas
PoliticsConstitution
Constitutional amendments (1986, 2001, 2008, 2019)
Constitutions (1822, 1827, 1844, 1864, 1911)
Supreme Special Court
Executive
Cabinet
Government (Government Gazette)
President (Presidential Mansion)
Prime Minister (Maximos Mansion)
Legislature
Conference of Presidents
Hellenic Parliament (Speaker)
Parliamentary Committees
Presidium
Elections
Nationality law
Parataxis
Parliamentary constituencies
Pasokification
Political parties
Judicial system
Council of State
Court of Audit
Supreme Court
Security
Police
Capital punishment
Corruption
Crime (Greek mafia)
Life imprisonment
Terrorism
Coast Guard
Foreign relations
Aegean dispute
Cyprus dispute
Council of Europe
European Union
Macedonia naming dispute (Language naming dispute)
NATO
Passport
Treaties
United Nations
Military
Air Force
Alliances
Army
Conscription
Military ranks
Navy
Evzones (Presidential Guard)
National Guard
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
Social issues
Abortion
Cannabis
Education (universities)
Healthcare (hospitals, obesity, smoking)
Human rights
Human rights abuses
LGBT rights
Prostitution
Political scandals
Racism
Ideologies
Conservatism (Monarchism)
Fascism (Metaxism)
Liberalism (Republicanism, Venizelism)
Nationalism (Hellenocentrism, Megali Idea, Enosis)
New Social Movements (Environmentalism, Feminism, Pacifism)
Socialism (Laocracy, Trotskyism)
Anarchism
Administrative divisions
Municipalities and communities
Administrative regions
Regional units
Decentralized administrations
Economy
Agriculture
Airports
Athens Stock Exchange (companies)
Banking (Central bank)
Central bank
Brands
Companies (electric power)
Debt crisis (Grexit)
Drachma
Energy (renewable, nuclear)
Euro coins
Greece and the International Monetary Fund
Greek economic miracle
Highways
Laiki agora
Ports
Public pensions
Railways (history)
Rankings
Science and technology
Shipping (Merchant Marine)
Space Agency
Subdivisions by GDP
Taxation
Telecommunications
Thessaloniki International Fair
Tourism
Trade unions
Transportation (Rio–Antirrio bridge, Athens Metro, Thessaloniki Metro)
Water supply and sanitation
SocietyDemographics
Diaspora
Greeks (names of Greece and the Greeks)
Immigration
Minorities (Muslim minority, Jews, Arvanites, Aromanians (Aromanian question), Megleno-Romanians, Slavophones, Roma)
Women
Culture
Anastenaria
Caryatid
Clean Monday
Concept of kingship
Dress (Chiton, Chlamys, Exomis, Fustanella, Himation, Mariner's cap, Peplos, Perizoma, Tsarouchi, Vraka)
Eastern Party
Festivals
Greek East and Latin West
Greektown
Hellenization
Hospitality
Carols (Christmas, New Year's, Theophany's)
Mangas
Mountza
Naming customs
Paideia
Philhellenism and Hellenophobia
Plate smashing
Philosophy
Public holidays (Independence Day, Ohi Day)
Rouketopolemos
Souliotic songs
Theophany
Tsiknopempti
Units of measurement
Worry beads
Art
Architecture (Castles)
Cretan and Heptanese School
Modern art (19th century)
Theatre (Ancient)
Religious art
Cuisine
Breads (Daktyla, Kritsini, Lagana, Paximadi, Tsoureki)
Desserts (Diples, Halva, Koulourakia, Kourabiedes, Loukoumades, Melomakarona, Pasteli, Spoon sweets, Vasilopita)
List of dishes
Drinks (Mastika, Metaxa, Ouzo, Rakomelo, Sideritis, Tentura, Tsipouro, Tsikoudia, Frappé coffee)
Cheeses (Anthotyros, Feta, Graviera, Kasseri, Kefalotyri, Ladotyri, Manouri, Metsovone, Mizithra)
Filo (Amygdalopita, Bougatsa, Galaktoboureko, Karydopita, Spanakopita, Tiropita)
Greek salad (Dakos)
Meze
Pasta (Gogges, Flomaria, Hilopites)
Restaurants (Kafenio, Ouzeri, Taverna)
Sauces (Skordalia, Taramosalata, Tirokafteri, Tzatziki)
Souvlaki
Varieties (Heptanesean, Cretan, Epirote, Macedonian)
Wine (Agiorgitiko, Aidini, Assyrtiko, Athiri, Kotsifali, Lesbian, Limnio, Mavrodafni, Mandilaria, Malagousia, Malvasia, Moschofilero, Retsina, Robola, Savatiano, Vilana, Xinomavro)
Languages
Greek alphabet (History, Orthography, Diacritics, Braille, Cyrillization, Romanization (Greeklish)) and numerals
Greek language (Demotic, Katharevousa) and dialects (Cappadocian, Cretan, Cypriot, Maniot, Pontic, Tsakonian, Yevanic)
Greek Sign Language
History (Mycenaean Greek, Ancient Greek, Koine Greek, Medieval Greek, Modern Greek)
Literature (Ancient, Medieval, Modern)
Minority Languages (Albanian language (Arvanitika), Aromanian, Balkan Romani, Bulgarian, Ladino, Macedonian, Turkish)
Place names and exonyms
Proverbs
Words for love
Media
Cinema
Internet
Newspapers
Television
Media freedom
Corruption
Music
Church music
Dances (Ai Georgis, Angaliastos, Antikristos, Ballos, Dionysiakos, Fisounis, Gaitanaki, Geranos, Hasapiko, Ikariotikos, Kalamatianos, Kangeli, Kastorianos, Kerkiraikos, Kleistos, Koftos, Pidikhtos, Leventikos, Maniatikos, Metsovitikos, Ntames, Palamakia, Partalos, Pentozali, Proskinitos, Pyrrhichios, Rougatsiarikos, Sirtaki, Sousta, Syrtos, Trata, Tsakonikos, Tsamikos, Zeibekiko, Zervos)
Éntekhno
Folk music (Cretan, Epirote, Heptanesian, Macedonian, Nisiotika, Peloponnesian, Pontic, Thessalian, Thracian)
Hip Hop
Ionian School
Laïko (Skyladiko)
Musical instruments (Askomandoura, Aulos, Bouzouki, Byzantine lyra (Cretan, Macedonian, Politiki, Pontic), Crotala, Floghera, Gaida, Harp, Laouto, Lyre, Organo, Pan flute, Phorminx, Psaltery, Salpinx, Santouri, Souravli, Tambouras, Tambourine, Trigono, Tsampouna, Tympano, Zilia)
Rebetiko
Rock (Punk)
Religion and lore
Ancient religion (Origins, Modern Revival)
Aerico
Buddhism
Catholicism
Drosoulites
Eastern Orthodox Church (Timeline: Antiquity, Early Middle Ages, Late Middle Ages, Early Modern Era, 19th century, Early 20th century, Late 20th century, Contemporary)
Fairy tales
Gello
Greek Orthodox Church (Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, Church of Greece, Flag)
Greek Old Calendarists
Hinduism
Hypertimos
Islam
Judaism (History)
Kallikantzaros
Lamia
Mormo
Mount Athos
Mythology (Primordial deities, Titans, Twelve Olympians, Heracles, Odysseus, Jason, Oedipus, Perseus, Daedalus, Orpheus, Theseus, Bellerephon, Satyr, Centaur)
Nymph
Protestantism
Psychai
Sikhism
Thymiaterion
Name days
Vrykolakas
Wayside shrine
Sport
Ancient Olympics
Baseball
Basketball
Cricket
Football
Hockey
Ice hockey
Modern Olympics (1896, 1906, 2004)
Rugby league
Symbols
Anthem
Coat of arms
Flag and national colours
Flags
Motto
Orders and decorations
World Heritage Sites
 Category
 Portal
vteAges of Greekc. 3rd millennium BCc. 1600–1100 BCc. 800–300 BCc. 300 BC – AD 600c. 600–1453Since 1453
Proto-Greek
Mycenaean
Ancient
Koine
Medieval
Modern
Authority control: National 
Spain
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Greek_language&oldid=1170849061"
Categories: Graeco-PhrygianGreek languageFusional languagesGreek alphabetLanguages of AlbaniaLanguages of ApuliaLanguages of ArmeniaLanguages of CalabriaLanguages of CyprusLanguages of Georgia (country)Languages of GreeceLanguages of HungaryLanguages of RomaniaLanguages of SicilyLanguages of TurkeyLanguages of UkraineLanguages with own distinct writing systemsSubject–verb–object languagesHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18CS1 maint: location missing publisherCS1 maint: multiple names: authors listArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from December 2022Articles containing Greek-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeInstances of Lang-el using second unnamed parameterArticles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language textAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1 Greek-language sources (el)CS1 German-language sources (de)CS1 uses Greek-language script (el)Commons category link from WikidataWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with Greek-language sources (el)Articles with BNE identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 17 August 2023, at 15:54 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width