Georgian language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Classification
2Dialects
3History
4Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
4.1Consonants
4.2Vowels
4.3Prosody
4.4Phonotactics
5Writing system
Toggle Writing system subsection
5.1Keyboard layout
6Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
6.1Morphology
6.1.1Morphophonology
6.1.2Inflection
6.2Syntax
7Vocabulary
8Examples
Toggle Examples subsection
8.1Word formations
8.2Words that begin with multiple consonants
9Language example
10See also
11References
12Bibliography
13External links
Toggle External links subsection
13.1Grammars
13.2Dictionaries
13.3Software
13.4Literature and culture
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Georgian language
143 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛÆngliscАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésܐܪܡܝܐԱրեւմտահայերէնAsturianuАварAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegБуряадCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGaelgGagauzGalegoГӀалгӀай客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaಕನ್ನಡКъарачай-малкъарქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliКомиKurdîКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuЛезгиLietuviųLimburgsLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄МокшеньМонголNederlands日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀPangasinanپنجابیپښتوPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаGagana SamoaᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVepsän kel’Tiếng Việt文言Winaray吴语ייִדיש粵語ZazakiŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Official language of Georgia
Georgiankartuli enaქართული ენაKartuli written in Georgian scriptPronunciation[ˈkʰartʰuli ˈena]Native toGeorgiaRegionSouth CaucasusEthnicityGeorgiansNative speakers3.7 million (2014)[1]Language familyKartvelian
Karto-ZanGeorgianEarly formOld Georgian
Dialects
Georgian dialects
Writing system
Georgian script
Georgian Braille
Official statusOfficial language in GeorgiaRegulated byCabinet of GeorgiaLanguage codesISO 639-1kaISO 639-2geo (B) kat (T)ISO 639-3katGlottolognucl1302Linguasphere42-CAB-baa – bacThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
This article contains Georgian text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Georgian letters.
Georgian (ქართული ენა, romanized: kartuli ena, pronounced [ˈkʰartʰuli ˈena]) is the most widely spoken Kartvelian language; it also serves as the literary language or lingua franca for speakers of related languages.[2] It is the official language of Georgia and the native or primary language of 87.6% of its population.[3] Its speakers today amount to approximately four million. Georgian is written in its own unique alphabet.
Classification[edit]
No claimed genetic links between the Kartvelian languages and any other language family in the world are accepted in mainstream linguistics. Among the Kartvelian languages, Georgian is most closely related to the so-called Zan languages (Megrelian and Laz); glottochronological studies indicate that it split from the latter approximately 2700 years ago. Svan is a more distant relative that split off much earlier, perhaps 4000 years ago.[4]
Dialects[edit]
Main article: Georgian dialects
Standard Georgian is largely based on the Kartlian dialect.[5] Over the centuries, it has exerted a strong influence on the other dialects. As a result, they are all, generally, mutually intelligible with standard Georgian, and with one another.[6]
History[edit]
Further information: Kartvelian languages, Proto-Kartvelian language, and Old GeorgianPart of a series onGeorgians ქართველებიThe Kartvelian people
Nation
Georgia
Ancient Kartvelian people
Colchians
Iberians
Subgroups
Adjarians
Ingiloy
Mingrelians
Svans
Culture
Music
Media
Sport
Calligraphy
Cinema
Cuisine
Dances
Chokha
Calendar
Architecture
Mythology
Languages
Writing system
Dialects
Grammar
Religion
Georgian Orthodox Church
Christianity
Catholic Church
Islam
Judaism
Saint George
Saint Nino
Symbols
St George's Cross
Grapevine cross
Bolnisi cross
Borjgali
History of Georgiavte
The history of the Georgian language is conventionally divided into the following phases:[7]
Early Old Georgian: 5th–8th centuries
Classical Old Georgian: 9th–11th centuries
Middle Georgian: 11th/12th–17th/18th centuries
Modern Georgian: 17th/18th century–present
The earliest extant references to Georgian are found in the writings of Marcus Cornelius Fronto, a Roman grammarian from the 2nd century AD.[8] The first direct attestations of the language are inscriptions and palimpsests dating to the 5th century, and the oldest surviving literary work is the 5th century Martyrdom of the Holy Queen Shushanik by Iakob Tsurtaveli.
The emergence of Georgian as a written language appears to have been the result of the Christianization of Georgia in the mid-4th century, which led to the replacement of Aramaic as the literary language.[7]
By the 11th century, Old Georgian had developed into Middle Georgian. The most famous work of this period is the epic poem The Knight in the Panther's Skin, written by Shota Rustaveli in the 12th century.
In 1629, a certain Nikoloz Cholokashvili authored the first printed books written (partially) in Georgian, the Alphabetum Ibericum sive Georgianum cum Oratione and the Dittionario giorgiano e italiano. These were meant to help western Catholic missionaries learn Georgian for evangelical purposes.[9]
Phonology[edit]
Consonants[edit]
On the left are IPA symbols, and on the right are the corresponding letters of the modern Georgian alphabet, which is essentially phonemic.
Consonants[10][11]
 
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Post-alveolar
Velar
Uvular
Glottal
Nasal
m   მ
n   ნ
Stop
aspirated
pʰ   ფ
tʰ   თ
kʰ   ქ
voiced
b   ბ7, 8
d   დ7, 8
ɡ   გ7, 8
ejective
pʼ   პ
tʼ   ტ
kʼ   კ
qʼ3   ყ
Affricate
(aspirated)
t͡sʰ1   ც
t͡ʃʰ1   ჩ
voiced
d͡z   ძ
d͡ʒ   ჯ
ejective
t͡sʼ   წ
t͡ʃʼ   ჭ
Fricative
voiceless
s   ს
ʃ   შ
x 2   ხ
h   ჰ
voiced 
v   ვ6
z   ზ
ʒ   ჟ
ɣ 2   ღ
Vibrant
r   რ4
Lateral
l   ლ5
Opinions differ on the aspiration of /t͡sʰ, t͡ʃʰ/, as it is non-contrastive.[citation needed]
Opinions differ on how to classify /x/ and /ɣ/; Aronson (1990) classifies them as post-velar, Hewitt (1995) argues that they range from velar to uvular according to context.
The uvular ejective stop is commonly realised as an uvular ejective fricative [χʼ] but it can also be [qʼ], [ʔ], or [qχʼ], they are in free variation.[12]
/r/ is realised as an alveolar tap [ɾ] [13] though [r] occurs in free variation.
/l/ is pronounced as velarized [ɫ] before back vowels, it is pronounced as [l] in the environment of front vowels.[14]
/v/ has the following allophones. [13]
word-initially, intervocally and word-finally, it is realized as a bilabial fricative [β] or [v].[15][13]
before voiceless consonants, it is realized as [f] or [ɸ].
post-consonantally, it is realized as [ʷ] labialization on preceding consonants.
In initial positions, /b, d, ɡ/ are pronounced as weakly voiced [b̥, d̥, ɡ̊][16]
In word-final positions, /b, d, ɡ/ are devoiced to [pʰ, tʰ, kʰ].[16][15]
Former /qʰ/ (ჴ) has merged with /x/ (ხ), leaving only the latter.
The glottalization of the ejectives is rather light, and in fact Georgian transliterates the tenuis stops in foreign words and names with the ejectives. In many romanization systems, it is not marked for transcriptions such as ejective p, t, ts, ch, k and q, against aspirated p‘, t‘, ts‘, ch‘ and k‘ (as in transcriptions of Armenian).
The coronal occlusives (/tʰ tʼ d n/, not necessarily affricates) are variously described as apical dental, laminal alveolar, and "dental".[10]
Vowels[edit]
Vowel phonemes[17][18][19][20]
Front
Central
Back
Close
/i/   ი
/u/   უ
Mid
/e/   ე
/o/   ო
Open
/a/ ა
Per Canepari, the main realizations of the vowels are [i], [e̞], [ä], [o̞], [u].[21]
Aronson describes their realizations as [i̞], [e̞], [ä] (but "slightly fronted"), [o̞], [u̞].[20]
Shosted transcribed one speaker's pronunciation more-or-less consistently with [i], [ɛ], [ɑ], [ɔ], [u].[22]
Allophonically, [ə] may be inserted to break up consonant clusters, as in /dɡas/ [dəɡäs].[23]
Prosody[edit]
Prosody in Georgian involves stress, intonation, and rhythm.  Stress is very weak, and linguists disagree as to where stress occurs in words.[24]  Jun, Vicenik, and Lofstedt have proposed that Georgian stress and intonation are the result of pitch accents on the first syllable of a word and near the end of a phrase.[25]
According to Borise,[26] Georgian has fixed word-initial stress cued primarily by syllable duration and intensity.
Phonotactics[edit]
Georgian contains many "harmonic clusters" involving two consonants of a similar type (voiced, aspirated, or ejective) that are pronounced with only a single release; e.g. ბგერა bgera (sound), ცხოვრება tskhovreba (life), and წყალი ts'q'ali (water).[27] There are also frequent consonant clusters, sometimes involving more than six consonants in a row, as may be seen in words like გვფრცქვნი gvprtskvni ("you peel us") and მწვრთნელი mts'vrtneli ("trainer").
Vicenik has observed that Georgian vowels following ejective stops have creaky voice and suggests this may be one cue distinguishing ejectives from their aspirated and voiced counterparts.[28]
Writing system[edit]
Calligraphy
Arabic
Chinese
Georgian
Indian
Islamic
Japanese
Korean
Mongolian
Persian
Tibetan
Vietnamese
Western
vte
Main articles: Georgian scripts and Georgian Braille
Georgian alphabet from The American Cyclopædia, 1879
Road sign in Mtavruli and Latin scripts
"Mshrali khidi" (dry bridge) bilingual construction signboard in Georgian (Mtavruli) and Italian in Tbilisi.
Georgian has been written in a variety of scripts over its history. Currently the Mkhedruli script is almost completely dominant; the others are used mostly in religious documents and architecture.
Mkhedruli has 33 letters in common use; a half dozen more are obsolete in Georgian, though still used in other alphabets, like Mingrelian, Laz, and Svan. The letters of Mkhedruli correspond closely to the phonemes of the Georgian language.
According to the traditional account written down by Leonti Mroveli in the 11th century, the first Georgian script was created by the first ruler of the Kingdom of Iberia, Pharnavaz, in the 3rd century BC. The first examples of a Georgian script date from the 5th century AD. There are now three Georgian scripts, called Asomtavruli "capitals", Nuskhuri "small letters", and Mkhedruli. The first two are used together as upper and lower case in the writings of the Georgian Orthodox Church and together are called Khutsuri "priests' [alphabet]".
In Mkhedruli, there is no case. Sometimes, however, a capital-like effect, called Mtavruli, "title" or "heading", is achieved by modifying the letters so that their vertical sizes are identical and they rest on the baseline with no descenders. These capital-like letters are often used in page headings, chapter titles, monumental inscriptions, and the like.
Modern Georgian alphabet
Letter
Nationaltranscription
IPA transcription
ა
a
ä
ბ
b
b
გ
g
ɡ
დ
d
d
ე
e
e̞
ვ
v
v
ზ
z
z
თ
t
tʰ
ი
i
i
კ
k’
kʼ
ლ
l
l
მ
m
m
ნ
n
n
ო
o
o̞
პ
p’
pʼ
ჟ
zh
ʒ
რ
r
r
ს
s
s
ტ
t’
tʼ
უ
u
u
ფ
p
pʰ
ქ
k
kʰ
ღ
gh
ɣ
ყ
q’
qʼ
შ
sh
ʃ
ჩ
ch
t͡ʃʰ
ც
ts
t͡sʰ
ძ
dz
d͡z
წ
ts’
t͡sʼ
ჭ
ch’
t͡ʃʼ
ხ
kh
x
ჯ
j
d͡ʒ
ჰ
h
h
Keyboard layout[edit]
Main article: Georgian keyboard layout
This is the Georgian standard[29] keyboard layout. The standard Windows keyboard is essentially that of manual typewriters.
 “„
 1!
 2?
 3№
 4§
 5%
 6:
 7.
 8;
 9,
 0/
 -_
 +=
 ← Backspace
 Tab key
ღ
ჯ
უ
კ
ე ჱ
ნ
გ
შ
წ
ზ
ხ ჴ
ც
)(
 Caps lock
ფ ჶ
ძ
ვ ჳ
თ
ა
პ
რ
ო
ლ
დ
ჟ
Enter key ↵
 Shift key ↑
ჭ
ჩ
ყ
ს
მ
ი ჲ
ტ
ქ
ბ
ჰ ჵ
 Shift key ↑
 Control key
Win key
 Alt key
Space bar
 AltGr key
Win key
Menu key
 Control key
  
Grammar[edit]
Main articles: Georgian grammar and Georgian verb paradigm
Morphology[edit]
Georgian is an agglutinative language. Certain prefixes and suffixes can be joined together in order to build a verb. In some cases, one verb can have up to eight different morphemes in it at the same time. An example is ageshenebinat ("you (pl.) should have built (it)"). The verb can be broken down to parts: a-g-e-shen-eb-in-a-t. Each morpheme here contributes to the meaning of the verb tense or the person who has performed the verb. The verb conjugation also exhibits polypersonalism; a verb may potentially include morphemes representing both the subject and the object.
Morphophonology[edit]
In Georgian morphophonology, syncope is a common phenomenon. When a suffix (especially the plural suffix -eb-) is attached to a word that has either of the vowels a or e in the last syllable, this vowel is, in most words, lost. For example, megobari means "friend". To say "friends", one says megobrebi (megobØrebi), with the loss of a in the last syllable of the word stem.
Inflection[edit]
Georgian has seven noun cases: nominative, ergative, dative, genitive, instrumental, adverbial and vocative. An interesting feature of Georgian is that, while the subject of a sentence is generally in the nominative case and the object is in the accusative case (or dative), one can find this reversed in many situations (this depends mainly on the character of the verb). This is called the dative construction. In the past tense of the transitive verbs, and in the present tense of the verb "to know", the subject is in the ergative case.
Syntax[edit]
Georgian is a left-branching language, in which adjectives precede nouns, possessors precede possessions, objects normally precede verbs, and postpositions are used instead of prepositions.
Each postposition (whether a suffix or a separate word) requires the modified noun to be in a specific case. This is similar to the way prepositions govern specific cases in many Indo-European languages such as German, Latin, or Russian.
Georgian is a pro-drop language; both subject and object pronouns are frequently omitted except for emphasis or to resolve ambiguity.
A study by Skopeteas et al. concluded that Georgian word order tends to place the focus of a sentence immediately before the verb, and the topic before the focus.  A subject–object–verb (SOV) word order is common in idiomatic expressions and when the focus of a sentence is on the object.  A subject–verb–object (SVO) word order is common when the focus is on the subject, or in longer sentences.  Object-initial word orders (OSV or OVS) are also possible, but less common.  Verb-initial word orders including both subject and object (VSO or VOS) are extremely rare.[30]
Georgian has no grammatical gender; even the pronouns are ungendered.
Georgian has no articles. Therefore, for example, "guest", "a guest" and "the guest" are said in the same way. In relative clauses, however, it is possible to establish the meaning of the definite article through use of some particles.[citation needed]
Vocabulary[edit]
The last verse of Shota Rustaveli's romance The Knight in the Panther's Skin illustrating the appearance of the Georgian script.
Georgian has a rich word-derivation system. By using a root, and adding some definite prefixes and suffixes, one can derive many nouns and adjectives from the root. For example, from the root -kart-, the following words can be derived: Kartveli (a Georgian person), Kartuli (the Georgian language) and Sakartvelo (Georgia).
Most Georgian surnames end in -dze ("son") (Western Georgia), -shvili ("child") (Eastern Georgia), -ia (Western Georgia, Samegrelo), -ani (Western Georgia, Svaneti), -uri (Eastern Georgia), etc.  The ending -eli is a particle of nobility, comparable to French de, German von or Polish -ski.
Georgian has a vigesimal numeric system like Basque or (partially) French.  Numbers greater than 20 and less than 100 are described as the sum of the greatest possible multiple of 20 plus the remainder. For example, "93" literally translates as "four times twenty plus thirteen" (ოთხმოცდაცამეტი – otkhmotsdatsamet'i).
One of the most important Georgian dictionaries is the Explanatory dictionary of the Georgian language (Georgian: ქართული ენის განმარტებითი ლექსიკონი). It consists of eight volumes and about 115,000 words. It was produced between 1950 and 1964, by a team of linguists under the direction of Arnold Chikobava.
Examples[edit]
Word formations[edit]
Georgian has a word derivation system, which allows the derivation of nouns from verb roots both with prefixes and suffixes, for example:
From the root -ts'er- ("write"), the words ts'erili ("letter") and mts'erali ("writer") are derived.
From the root -tsa- ("give"), the word gadatsema ("broadcast") is derived.
From the root -tsda- ("try"), the word gamotsda ("exam") is derived.
From the root -gav- ("resemble"), the words msgavsi ("similar") and msgavseba ("similarity") are derived.
From the root -shen- ("build"), the word shenoba ("building") is derived.
From the root -tskh- ("bake"), the word namtskhvari ("cake") is derived.
From the root -tsiv- ("cold"), the word matsivari ("refrigerator") is derived.
From the root -pr- ("fly"), the words tvitmprinavi ("plane") and aprena ("take-off") are derived.
It is also possible to derive verbs from nouns:
From the noun -omi- ("war"), the verb omob ("wage war") is derived.
From the noun -sadili- ("lunch"), the verb sadilob ("eat lunch") is derived.
From the noun -sauzme ("breakfast"), the verb ts'asauzmeba ("eat a little breakfast") is derived; the preverb ts'a- in Georgian could add the meaning "VERBing a little".
From the noun -sakhli- ("home"), the verb gadasakhleba (the infinite form of the verb "to relocate, to move") is derived.
Likewise, verbs can be derived from adjectives, for example:
From the adjective -ts'iteli- ("red"), the verb gats'itleba (the infinite form of both "to blush" and "to make one blush") is derived. This kind of derivation can be done with many adjectives in Georgian.
From the adjective -brma ("blind"), the verbs dabrmaveba (the infinite form of both "to become blind" and "to blind someone") are derived.
From the adjective -lamazi- ("beautiful"), the verb galamazeba (the infinite form of the verb "to become beautiful") is derived.
Words that begin with multiple consonants[edit]
In Georgian many nouns and adjectives begin with two or more contiguous consonants. This is because syllables in the language often begin with two consonants. Recordings are available on the relevant Wiktionary entries, linked to below.
Some examples of words that begin with two consonants are:
წყალი (ts'q'ali), "water"
სწორი (sts'ori), "correct"
რძე (rdze), "milk"
თმა (tma), "hair"
მთა (mta), "mountain"
ცხენი (tskheni), "horse"
Many words begin with three contiguous consonants:
თქვენ (tkven), "you (plural)"
მწვანე (mts'vane), "green"
ცხვირი (tskhviri), "nose"
ტკბილი (t'k'bili), "sweet"
მტკივნეული (mt'k'ivneuli), "painful"
ჩრდილოეთი (chrdiloeti), "north"
A few words in Georgian that begin with four contiguous consonants. Examples are:
მკვლელი (mk'vleli), "murderer"
მკვდარი (mk'vdari), "dead"
მთვრალი (mtvrali), "drunk"
მწკრივი (mts'k'rivi), "row, screeve"
Some extreme cases also exist in Georgian. For example, the following word begins with six contiguous consonants:
მწვრთნელი (mts'vrtneli), "trainer"
While the following word begins with seven:
გვწვრთნი (gvts'vrtni), "you train us"
And the following words begin with eight:
გვფრცქვნი (gvprtskvni), "you peel us"
გვბრდღვნი (gvbrdghvni), "you tear us"
Language example[edit]
Recording of a middle-aged male speaker reading Article 1.
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Georgian and English:
ყველა ადამიანი იბადება თავისუფალი და თანასწორი თავისი ღირსებითა და უფლებებით. მათ მინიჭებული აქვთ გონება და სინდისი და ერთმანეთის მიმართ უნდა იქცეოდნენ ძმობის სულისკვეთებით.
Transliteration:
q'vela adamiani ibadeba tavisupali da tanasts'ori tavisi ghirsebita da uplebebit. mat minich'ebuli akvt goneba da sindisi da ertmanetis mimart unda iktseodnen dzmobis sulisk'vetebit.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.[31]
See also[edit]
Old Georgian
Georgian dialects
Georgian alphabet
Georgian calligraphy
Georgian calendar
Georgian grammar
Georgian numerals
Georgian profanity
References[edit]
^ Georgian at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ Hiller (1994:1)
^ Central Intelligence Agency. (2016). Georgia. In The World Factbook. Retrieved from https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/countries/georgia/ Archived 2021-02-04 at the Wayback Machine
^ Hiller (1994:2)
^ Georgian Dialects Archived 2016-03-04 at the Wayback Machine, The ARMAZI project. Retrieved on March 28, 2007
^ Manana Kock Kobaidze (2004-02-11) From the history of Standard Georgian Archived September 27, 2007, at the Wayback Machine
^ a b Tuite, Kevin, "Early Georgian", pp. 145–6, in: Woodard, Roger D. (2008), The Ancient Languages of Asia Minor. Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-68496-X
^ Braund, David (1994), Georgia in Antiquity; a History of Colchis and Transcaucasian Iberia, 550 B.C. – A.D. 562, p. 216. Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-814473-3
^ "Georgian and Italian Dictionary". World Digital Library. Retrieved 3 July 2013.
^ a b Shosted & Chikovani (2006:263)
^ "Native Phonetic Inventory: georgian". gmu.edu. George Mason University. Retrieved 24 August 2019.
^ Shosted & Chikovani (2006:256)
^ a b c Shosted & Chikovani (2006:261)
^ Aronson (1990:17-18)
^ a b Hewitt (1995:21)
^ a b Aronson (1990:15)
^ Testelets (2020:497)
^ Putkaradze & Mikautadze (2014:53)
^ Hewitt (1987:19)
^ a b Aronson (1990:18)
^ Canepari (2007:385)
^ Shosted & Chikovani (2006:262)
^ McCoy, Priscilla (1999). Harmony and Sonority in Georgian (PDF). 14th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences.
^ Aronson (1990:18)
^ Jun, Vicenik & Lofstedt (2007)
^ Borise, Lena (2023-02-13). "Disentangling word stress and phrasal prosody: A view from Georgian". Phonological Data and Analysis. 5 (1): 1–37. doi:10.3765/pda.v5art1.43. ISSN 2642-1828. S2CID 256858909.
^ Aronson (1990:33)
^ Vicenik (2010:87)
^ Georgian Keyboard Layout Microsoft
^ Skopeteas, Féry & Asatiani (2009:2–5)
^ "About Georgia: Georgian Alphabet". Archived from the original on 2010-12-02. Retrieved 2010-11-10.
Bibliography[edit]
Aronson, Howard I. (1990), Georgian: a reading grammar (second ed.), Columbus, OH: Slavica
Canepari, Luciano (2007), Natural phonetics and tonetics: Articulatory, auditory, & functional, München: Lincom Europa
Elene Machavariani. The graphical basis of the Georgian Alphabet, Tbilisi, 1982, 107 pp (in Georgian, French summary)
Farshid Delshad. Georgica et Irano-Semitica Studies on Iranian, Semitic and Georgian Linguistics, Wiesbaden 2010, 401 pp  (in German, English, Russian and Georgian summary)
"Great discovery" (about the expedition of Academician Levan Chilashvili).- Newspaper Kviris Palitra, Tbilisi, April 21–27, 2003 (in Georgian)
Hewitt, Brian G. (1987), The typology of subordination in Georgian and Abkhaz, Berlin: De Gruyter
Hewitt, B. G. (1995), Georgian: a structural reference grammar, Amsterdam: John Benjamins
Hewitt, B. G. (1996), Georgian: a Learner's Grammar, London: Routledge
Hiller, P. J. (1994). Georgian: The Kartvelian Literary Language. Pontypridd, Wales: Language Information Centre.
Ivane Javakhishvili. Georgian Paleography, Tbilisi, 1949, 500 pp (in Georgian)
Jun, Sun-Ah; Vicenik, Chad; Lofstedt, Ingvar (2007), "Intonational Phonology of Georgian" (PDF), UCLA Working Papers in Phonetics (106): 41–57, archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-06-16
Kiziria, Dodona (2009), Beginner's Georgian with 2 Audio CDs, New York: Hippocrene, ISBN 978-0-7818-1230-6
Korneli Danelia, Zurab Sarjveladze. Questions of Georgian Paleography, Tbilisi, 1997, 150 pp (in Georgian, English summary)
Kraveishvili, M. & Nakhutsrishvili, G. (1972), Teach Yourself Georgian for English Speaking Georgians, Tbilisi: The Georgian Society for Cultural Relations with Compatriots Abroad{{citation}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Pavle Ingorokva. Georgian inscriptions of antique.- Bulletin of ENIMK, vol. X, Tbilisi, 1941, pp. 411–427 (in Georgian)
Price, Glanville (1998), An Encyclopedia of the Languages of Europe, Blackwell
Putkaradze, Tariel; Mikautadze, Maia (2014), Phonetics of the Georgian literary language, Tbilisi{{citation}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Ramaz Pataridze. The Georgian Asomtavruli, Tbilisi, 1980, 600 pp. (in Georgian).
Shosted, Ryan K.; Chikovani, Vakhtang (2006), "Standard Georgian" (PDF), Journal of the International Phonetic Association, 36 (2): 255–264, doi:10.1017/S0025100306002659, S2CID 53481687
Skopeteas, Stavros; Féry, Caroline; Asatiani, Rusudan (2009), Word order and intonation in Georgian, University of Potsdam
Testelets, Yakov G. (2020), "Kartvelian (South Caucasian) Languages", in Polinsky, Maria (ed.), The Oxford Handbook of Languages of the Caucasus, pp. 491–528
Vicenik, Chad (2010), "An acoustic study of Georgian stop consonants", Journal of the International Phonetic Association, 40 (1): 59–92, doi:10.1017/s0025100309990302, S2CID 143120834
Zaza Aleksidze. Epistoleta Tsigni, Tbilisi, 1968, 150 pp (in Georgian)
Butskhrikidze, Marika (2002). The consonant phonotactics of Georgian
External links[edit]
Georgian language  at Wikipedia's sister projects
Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsTextbooks from WikibooksPhrasebook from Wikivoyage
 Georgian  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikisource has the text of an 1879 American Cyclopædia article about Georgian language.
Dryer, Matthew S.; Haspelmath, Martin, eds. (2013). "Georgian language". World Atlas of Language Structures Online. Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Georgian language
Grammars[edit]
Reference grammar of Georgian by Howard Aronson (SEELRC, Duke University)
Georgian Grammar
Dictionaries[edit]
Georgian English, English Georgian online dictionary
English-Georgian, German-Georgian and Russian-Georgian dictionaries
English-Georgian HTML Dictionary
Georgian Swadesh list of basic vocabulary words (from Wiktionary's Swadesh-list appendix)
Georgian Verb Conjugator/Dictionary
Software[edit]
Georgian fonts, compliant with Unicode 4.0, also available for MAC OS 9 or X
A keyboard for typing georgian characters for firefox[permanent dead link]
Learn Georgian Alphabet Now app Gives the name, pronunciation of each letter, and example words. Shows the stroke order of each letter. Permits drawing practice and has a quiz to learn the letters.
Literature and culture[edit]
About Georgia – Language and Alphabet
Summer School of Georgian at Tbilisi State University
Learn how to write Georgian hand-written letters correctly
vteGeorgian languageGrammar
Screeve
Verb paradigm
Writing
Scripts
Braille
Calligraphy
Keyboard
Numerals
Romanization
Encoding
Unicode
Georgian
Georgian Supplement
Georgian Extended
Mac OS Georgian
Genealogy
Proto-Kartvelian
Kartvelian languages
Old Georgian
Georgian dialects
Adjaran
Judaeo-Georgian
Other
Georgian Wikipedia
vte Languages of GeorgiaOfficial language
Georgian
Minority languages
Abkhazian
Azerbaijani
Western Armenian
Bats
Laz
Mingrelian
Ossetian
Pontic Greek
Russian
Svan
Urum
Sign languages
Georgian Sign Language
vteKartvelian languagesProto-language
Proto-Kartvelian
Proto-Georgian-Zan
Svan
Svan
Karto-Zan
Georgian
Old Georgian
Zan
Mingrelian
Laz
vteLanguages of the CaucasusCaucasian(areal)South(Kartvelian)
Karto-Zan
Georgian
Judaeo-Georgian
Old Georgian
Zan
Laz
Mingrelian
Svan
Northeast(Caspian)Avar–Andic
Andic
Andi
Akhvakh
Bagvalal–Tindi
Botlikh–Godoberi
Chamalal
Karata
Avar
Dargin
Chirag
Dargwa
Itsari
Kaitag
Kubachi
Lezgic
Archi
Samur
Eastern
Aghul
Lezgian
Tabasaran
Udi
Caucasian Albanian
Southern
Budukh
Kryts
Western
Rutul
Tsakhur
Nakh
Bats
Vainakh
Arshtin
Chechen
Ingush
Tsezic (Didoic)
Bezhta–Hunzib–Khwarshi
Hinukh–Tsez
Others
Khinalug
Lak
Northwest(Pontic)
Abazgi
Abaza
Abkhaz
Circassian
Adyghe
Kabardian
Ubykh
Indo-EuropeanIranian
Kurdish
Kurmanji
Ossetian
Persian
Talysh
Tat
Judeo-Tat
Slavic
Russian
Ukrainian
Others
Armenian
Eastern
Western
German
Pontic Greek
TurkicKipchak
Karachay-Balkar
Kumyk
Nogai
Urum
Oghuz
Azerbaijani
Turkish
Turkmen
Others
Kalmyk Oirat
Northeastern Neo-Aramaic
Assyrian
Bohtan
Shirvani Arabic
Italics indicate extinct languagesLanguages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
See also
Languages of Armenia
Languages of Azerbaijan
Languages of Georgia
Languages of Russia
vteGeorgia articlesHistoryEarly
Prehistoric Georgia
Shulaveri–Shomu culture
Kura–Araxes culture
Trialeti-Vanadzor culture
Colchian culture
Mushki
Diauehi
Colchis
Kingdom of Iberia
Lazica
Roman era
Sasanian Iberia
Christianization of Iberia
Middle
Principality of Iberia
Bagrationi dynasty
Arab rule
Emirate of Tbilisi
Kingdom of Abkhazia
Kingdom of the Iberians
Unification of the Georgian realm
Kingdom of Hereti
First Kingdom of Kakheti
Kingdom of Georgia
Byzantine wars
Seljuk wars
Battle of Didgori
Golden Age
Mongol invasions
Timur's invasions
Samtskhe atabegate
Turkmen incursions
Kingdom of Imereti
Principality of Abkhazia
Principality of Svaneti
Principality of Guria
Principality of Mingrelia
Kingdom of Kartli
Kingdom of Kakheti
Safavid Georgia
Shah Abbas I's invasions
Kingdom of Kartli-Kakheti
1795 Persian Invasion
Absorption by the Russian Empire
Modern
Democratic Republic of Georgia
Armenian War
Red Army invasion
Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic
April 9 tragedy
Independent Georgia
Civil War
War in Abkhazia
Rose Revolution
Russo-Georgian War
By topic
Names of Georgia
Monarchs
States
Military history
Wars
Battles
Timeline of Georgian history
more
Geography
Borders
Birds
Black Sea
Climate
Earthquakes
Environmental issues
Glaciers
Greater Caucasus
Lakes
Lesser Caucasus
Mammals
National parks
Protected areas
Rivers
Volcanoes
more
Subdivisions
Administrative divisions
Cities and towns
Tbilisi
Regions
more
Occupied territories
Abkhazia
South Ossetia
Politics
Constitution
Elections
Foreign relations
Government
Human rights
LGBT
Law enforcement
Military
Parliament
Political parties
President
Prime Minister
Economy
Agriculture
Central bank
Companies
Energy
Lari (currency)
Mining
Stock Exchange
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
more
Culture
Alphabet
Architecture
Art
Chokha
Cinema
Cuisine
Wine
Dance
Languages
Georgian
Laz
Mingrelian
Svan
Media
Music
Mythology
Names
Public holidays
Religion
Sports
World Heritage sites
more
Demographics
Education
Ethnic minorities
Georgians
List
Diaspora
Health care
Women
more
Symbols
Anthem
Bolnisi cross
Borjgali
Coat of arms
Flag
Motto
Saint George
cross
Saint Nino
cross
OutlineIndex
Category
Portal
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Georgian_language&oldid=1172797163"
Categories: Georgian languageLanguages attested from the 5th centuryKartvelian languagesLanguages of Georgia (country)Languages of AbkhaziaLanguages of RussiaLanguages of TurkeyLanguages of AzerbaijanLanguages of IranAgglutinative languagesGeorgian-Zan languagesHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles containing Georgian-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2017Articles with unsourced statements from September 2013CS1 maint: multiple names: authors listCS1 maint: location missing publisherAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2019Articles with permanently dead external linksArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 29 August 2023, at 11:02 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width