United States Navy Band - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Organization and personnel
Toggle Organization and personnel subsection
1.1Concert Band
1.2Ceremonial Band
1.3Sea Chanters
1.4Commodores
1.5Country Current
1.6Cruisers
2History
Toggle History subsection
2.1Early music in the Navy
2.2Establishment of the U.S. Navy Band
2.3Crash
2.4Capitol concerts
2.5Past leaders of the Navy Band
2.6Radio performances
2.7Other notable performances
2.8Discography of the U.S. Navy Band
2.9Notable members
3Music
4Gallery
5See also
6References
7External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
United States Navy Band
4 languages
العربيةFrançaisSvenska中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Official musical organization of the US Navy since 1925
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "United States Navy Band" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
United States Navy BandFounded1925; 98 years ago (1925)Country United StatesBranch United States NavyGarrison/HQWashington Navy YardNickname(s)"The World's Finest"March"Anchors Aweigh"Anniversaries4 March 1925Decorations6 Meritorious Unit CommendationsWebsitewww.navyband.navy.milCommandersCommanding Officer/LeaderCAPT Kenneth CollinsExecutive OfficerLCDR Charles WhiteSenior Enlisted AdvisorMUCM James Armstrong IIIInsigniaWordmarkMilitary unit
The United States Navy Band, based at the Washington Navy Yard in Washington, D.C., has served as the official musical organization of the U.S. Navy since 1925. The U.S. Navy Band serves the ceremonial needs at the seat of U.S. government, performing at presidential inaugurations, state arrival ceremonies, state funerals, state dinners, and other significant events.
The band performs a broad range of music, including ceremonial ruffles and flourishes, classical, rock, jazz, and country.
Organization and personnel[edit]
United States Navy Band members in 2007
Since its official designation in 1925, the United States Navy Band has grown into a diverse organization of multiple performing units. The organization features six performing ensembles: the Concert Band, the Ceremonial Band, the Commodores jazz ensemble, Country Current country-bluegrass ensemble, the Cruisers contemporary entertainment ensemble, and the Sea Chanters chorus. There are also several chamber music groups. The multiple ensembles help meet the public demand for different types of music and the needs of Navy recruiting.
United States Navy Band playing in Oslo, 2022
United States Navy Band playing in Oslo, 2022
The United States Navy Band is composed of 172 enlisted musicians and four officers, under the direction of Capt. Kenneth Collins.
Concert Band[edit]
The Concert Band is the Navy's premier wind ensemble. Along with the Ceremonial Band, this band was part of the original Navy Band in 1925. The group plays concerts in the Washington, D.C. area and performs a month-long national tour each year.
Ceremonial Band[edit]
The Ceremonial Band performs ceremonies in and around the Washington, D.C. area. Their primary mission is performing for funerals at Arlington National Cemetery. Additionally, the Ceremonial Band performs at command changes, retirements, patriotic openers, wreath-layings, and arrivals.
Sea Chanters[edit]
Main article: Sea Chanters
In 1956, Lt. Harold Fultz, then the band's assistant leader, organized a Navy School of Music group to sing chanteys and patriotic songs for the State of the Nation dinner. An immediate success, ADM Arleigh Burke, then chief of naval operations, transferred them to the Navy Band, named them the Sea Chanters, and tasked this all-male chorus with perpetuating the songs of the sea. In 1980, the group added women to their ranks and expanded their repertoire to include everything from Brahms to Broadway.
Commodores[edit]
Founded in 1969, the Commodores are a jazz ensemble. Performers who have appeared with the group include Ray Charles, Stanley Turrentine, Louie Bellson, Terry Gibbs, Chris Potter, Jerry Bergonzi, Bob Mintzer, Dave Leibman, James Moody, and Clark Terry.
Country Current[edit]
This seven-member group was formed in 1973 and specialized in country and bluegrass music.
Cruisers[edit]
A contemporary entertainment ensemble with eight members was formed in 1999.
History[edit]
Early music in the Navy[edit]
The earliest music of the United States Navy was the shantyman's song. These melodies of the sea helped soften the rigors of shipboard life. Next came trumpeters, drummers, and fifers who were carried on the early frigates to sound calls, give general orders, and perform at funerals and other ceremonies. Military bands became a separate section of the crew on many Navy vessels.
The development of shore-based bands in the 19th century led to the creation of the Naval Academy Band, which grew in size and importance during the American Civil War. Other band units afloat and ashore played a significant role in promoting sailors' and civilians' morale.
At the start of World War I, many musicians left their orchestras to join the United States Navy, using their talents to further the war effort.
Establishment of the U.S. Navy Band[edit]
In 1916, a 16-piece band from the battleship USS Kansas was ordered to the Washington Navy Yard to augment a 17-piece band aboard the Presidential Yacht Mayflower. The new unit became known as the "Washington Navy Yard Band" and was given rehearsal space near the power plant's coal pile. The increasing tempo of the band's duties led the bandmaster to seek more suitable quarters in the yard's "Sail Loft", and sailmakers were soon cutting and stitching their canvas to the rhythms of the music. The United States Navy Band still occupies the Sail Loft as its headquarters and rehearsal hall.
In 1923, a 35-man contingent from the Navy Yard Band accompanied President Warren G. Harding on his trip to the Alaska Territory. After the president's unexpected death in San Francisco, the band performed the hymn "Nearer My God to Thee" as his body was placed aboard a train destined for Washington, D.C.
With the band growing in importance and prestige, President Calvin Coolidge signed into law a 1925 bill stating "hereafter the band now stationed at the Navy Yard, known as the Navy Yard Band, shall be designated as the United States Navy Band." The legislation also allowed the band to take its first national tour in 1925.
Among those praising the early United States Navy Band was the Boston Post newspaper, which printed on 13 March 1929: "…Some folks have an idea perhaps that Navy music is made up of a few chantey choruses, a jig, and "The Star-Spangled Banner". To the average American Citizen the performance last night must have been a truly startling eye-opener. They performed like a company of first-rank virtuosi…"
Under the baton of Lt. Charles Benter, the band's first leader, the United States Navy Band was featured at many historic occasions, including the 1927 return of Charles Lindbergh following his trans-Atlantic flight. Two years later, the band performed for the return of Adm. Richard E. Byrd from his famous South Pole flight.
The need for qualified musicians led Lt. Benter to found the Navy School of Music under his charge in 1935. Many of the faculty were bandsmen who taught in addition to their performance duties.
Throughout much of the 1960s, the band's leader was Anthony A. Mitchell, a classical clarinetist and accomplished composer who had joined the band in 1937. During his tenure as the Band's director LCDR Mitchell composed the popular march Our Nation's Capital, later honored as the official march of Washington, D.C.[1] He also wrote a march for the yet-unbuilt National Cultural Center in Washington, D.C. The National Cultural Center March was first performed and recorded by the band in 1963 and was performed at fundraising events for the Center throughout the early 1960s. In 1964 the center was renamed the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts to honor the fallen president. The march's title was changed to the John F. Kennedy Center March in 1964, though it is still often referred to by its original title.
Crash[edit]
Main article: 1960 Rio de Janeiro mid-air collision
On 25 February 1960, 19 members of the Navy Band were flying from Buenos Aires to Rio de Janeiro to join the rest of the band at a reception for President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Brazilian President Juscelino Kubitschek. As the Navy transport plane approached Rio de Janeiro in a dense fog, it collided in mid-air with a Brazilian airliner above the city's harbor, not far from the landmark Sugarloaf Mountain. Among the 61 people killed were 19 members of the Navy Band, including the assistant leader, J. Harold Fultz, and most of the string section. Three U.S. sailors playing cards at the back of the airplane were the only survivors.[2] The crash was the single worst event in the band's history and devastated the remaining members of the band. Despite their losses, the surviving musicians completed their South American tour.
Capitol concerts[edit]
Among the Navy Band's many accomplishments were weekly Monday night concerts,[2] and smaller daily concerts held at the U.S. Capitol.[3] Held on a special stage located on the east side of the Capitol, the daily and weekly concerts ran without interruption from the 1930s until the early 1970s.
In the 1960s, the Navy Band began a series of popular children's performances, known as "Lollypop Concerts".[2]
Past leaders of the Navy Band[edit]
Leader
Years
1
LT Charles Benter
1925–1942
2
CDR Charles Brendler
1942–1962
3
LCDR Anthony A. Mitchell
1962–1968
4
CDR Donald W. Stauffer
1968–1973
5
CDR Ned Muffley
1973–1978
6
CDR William J. Phillips
1978–1984
7
CDR Allen E. Beck
1984–1989
8
CDR Phillip H. Field
1989–1992
9
CAPT William J. Phillips
1992–1995
10
LCDR John R. Pastin
1995–1998
11
CAPT Ralph M. Gambone
1998–2007
12
CAPT George N. Thompson
2007–2009
13
CAPT Brian O. Walden
2010– 2015
14
CAPT Kenneth Collins
2015–
Radio performances[edit]
From 1929 to 1939, the United States Navy Band took to the airwaves with Arthur Godfrey on NBC's "Hour of Memories" radio program. During World War II, the United States Navy Band supported the sale of war bonds. It assisted in national recruiting efforts, although most of the band's time was spent performing at the daily funerals at Arlington National Cemetery.
At the close of the war in 1945, the radio program "The Navy Hour" was born. It featured such entertainers as Lt. Robert Taylor and Lt.(j.g.) Gene Kelly, with whom the band had appeared in the film Anchors Aweigh. When it went off the air in 1968, "The Navy Hour" had set a record for one of the longest tenures in radio.
Other notable performances[edit]
The Drum Major, Master Chief Joe D. Brown, wearing a bearskin hat and holding a ceremonial mace while leading members of the United States Navy Ceremonial Band as they march onto the parade grounds in front of the Quebec City Armoury as part of the opening ceremony of the Quebec Music Festival.
The United States Navy Band has performed at the following ceremonies and events:
1927 – Washington ceremony for Charles Lindbergh.
1929 – Washington ceremony for Adm. Richard E. Byrd
1962 – Washington, D.C. ceremony for astronaut John Glenn.
1963 – Funeral parade and funeral for President John F. Kennedy.
1966 – First performance by the Navy Band at New York City's Carnegie Hall
1981 – Return of the hostages during the Iran Hostage Crisis
1993 – Re-dedication of the Statue of Freedom and the Bicentennial of the United States Capitol
1995 – Dedication parade of the Korean War Veterans Memorial
1997 – Dedication of the Women in Military Service for America Memorial at Arlington National Cemetery and the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Ceremony of Dedication
1998 – Re-dedication of the Wright Brothers National Memorial in Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina
1999 – Veterans of Foreign Wars 100th Anniversary celebration at their national convention in Kansas City, Missouri
2000 – International Naval Review festivities in New York City
2001 – "United in Memory" memorial service at the Pentagon
2002 – "Beam of Hope" remembrance ceremony at Freedom Plaza in Washington, D.C.
Discography of the U.S. Navy Band[edit]
1963 – The National Cultural Center Presents the United States Navy Band, RCA Victor
1992 – Music for Honors and Ceremonies
1996 – Commemoration
1997 – Ports of Call
1997 – That Holiday Feeling
1998 – Seawolf
1998 – Coast to Coast II
1999 – Mystic Chords of Memory
2000 – American Salute
2000 – 75th Anniversary Collection
2001 – Celebrations
2002 – Music for Chamber Winds
2002 – Happy Holidays
2003 – Overtures and Finales
2005 – Light Cavalry Overture...and other Warhorses
2006 – Sail Loft Sounds
2006 – World Class Marches
2007 – Holiday Wishes
2009 – Command Performance
2009 – Directions
2011 – Derivations
2022 – Premieres
Notable members[edit]
Victor Salvi, Italian-American harpist, played with the band during World War II, and later with the New York Philharmonic and the NBC Symphony Orchestra, before founding Salvi Harps.
Music[edit]
Hands Across the Sea
John Philip Sousa, "Hands Across the Sea"
The Fairest of the Fair
Sousa's "The Fairest of the Fair"
Eternal Father, Strong to Save
William Whiting's "Eternal Father, Strong to Save"
A Dream of a Witches' Sabbath
The fifth movement from Hector Berlioz's Symphonie fantastique, also known as A Dream of a Witches' Sabbath
Under the Double Eagle
Josef Wagner's "Under the Double Eagle"
March Grandioso
Roland F. Seitz's "March Grandioso"
Belford's Carnival
Russell Alexander's "Belford's Carnival"
Anchors Aweigh (1929)
1929 acetate recording of Charles A. Zimmermann's "Anchors Aweigh"
Anchors Aweigh
Zimmerman's "Anchors Aweigh"
Auld Lang Syne
Robert Burns "Auld Lang Syne"
Florentiner March
Julius Fučík's "Florentiner March"
Finale of Symphony No. 4 in F minor
Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 4 in F minor, Op. 36
Oberon Overture
Carl Maria von Weber's overture to Oberon
In Storm and Sunshine
John Clifford Heed's "In Storm and Sunshine"
Problems playing these files? See media help.
Gallery[edit]
The United States Navy Band Concert Band performs traditional and popular holiday music for the television special, "Happy Holidays" at DAR Constitution Hall in Washington, D.C., 2001.
A group photo of the "Sea Chanters" chorus.
The United States Navy Ceremonial Band marching into position during a 2004 departure ceremony held at the United States Capitol Building during the state funeral of Ronald Reagan in 2004.
Captain George N. Thompson, commanding officer of the United States Navy Ceremonial Band, leads the Drum Major and band members as they render honors during a 19-gun salute at the swearing-in ceremony for Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) the Honorable Ray Mabus at the Washington Navy Yard.
The United States Navy Ceremonial Band, under the direction of the Drum Major, Master Chief Musician Joe D. Brown Jr., standing at attention as Marine General Peter Pace approaches their formation during the change of command ceremony for the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The United States Navy Band along with La Musique du Royal 22e Régiment, marches off during the closing ceremony of the Quebec Tattoo at the Pepsi Coliseum, 27 August 2009.
See also[edit]
Fleet Band Activities
Musician (United States Navy)
United States Armed Forces School of Music
United States military bands
United States Naval Academy Band
United States Navy Steel Band
References[edit]
^ 
Kelly, John (6 June 2010). "Dreaming of taking the District by song". The Washington Post. Retrieved 4 October 2011.
^ a b c Schudel, Matt (29 March 2009). "A Local Life: Anthony A. Mitchell, 91 – He Served His Country With Music". The Washington Post.
^ The National Cultural Center Presents the United States Navy Band, RCA Victor, 1963, LSP 2688
This article incorporates public domain text from a U.S. federal government website.[clarification needed]
External links[edit]
Official website
vteUnited States Navy
 Category
Leadership
Secretary of the Navy
Under Secretary of the Navy
Chief of Naval Operations
Vice Chief of Naval Operations
Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy
4-star admirals
3-star admirals
1864–1959
2000–2009
2010–2019
2020–present
2-star admirals
House Armed Services Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces
Senate Subcommittee on Seapower
Structure
Navy
Navy Reserve
Fleet Marine Force
Expeditionary Combat Command
Merchant Marine
Units
Active ships
Future ships
Aircraft wings
Aircraft squadrons
Carrier strike group
Installations
Naval Observatory
Master jet base
Operatingforces
Fleet Forces Command
Commander
Pacific Fleet
Commander
Naval Forces Europe – Naval Forces Africa
Naval Forces Central Command
Naval Forces Southern Command
Naval Special Warfare Command
Naval Reserve Forces
Operational Test and Evaluation Force
Naval Network Warfare Command
Military Sealift Command
Shore
Naval Sea Systems Command
Naval Air Systems Command
Naval Facilities Engineering Systems Command
Naval Supply Systems Command
Naval Information Warfare Systems Command
Fleet Cyber Command
Naval Academy
Naval Education and Training Command
Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command
Office of Naval Intelligence
Naval Aviation Warfighting Development Center
Naval Legal Service Command
Naval Observatory
Naval Safety Center
Bureau of Naval Personnel
Chief of Naval Personnel
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery
Navy Installations Command
Navy Working Capital Fund
Fleets
Second Fleet
Third Fleet
Fourth Fleet
Fifth Fleet
Sixth Fleet
Seventh Fleet
Tenth Fleet
Ships
A–B
C
D–F
G–H
I–K
L
M
N–O
P
Q–R
S
T–V
W–Z
Aircraft carriers
Airships
Amphibious warfare ships
Auxiliaries
Battleships
Cruisers
Destroyers
Destroyer escorts
Escort carriers
Frigates
Mine warfare vessels
Monitors
Patrol vessels
Registered civilian vessels
Sailing frigates
Steam frigates
Steam gunboats
Ships of the line
Sloops of war
Submarines
Torpedo boats
Torpedo retrievers
Unclassified miscellaneous vessels
Yard and district craft
PersonnelandtrainingPeopleOfficers
Insignia
Designators
Enlisted
Rates
Ratings
Classification
Personnel
Chaplain Corps
Chief
Deputy Chief
Explosive ordnance disposal
Medical Corps
Dental Corps
Nurse Corps
Medical Service Corps
Supply Corps
Civil Engineer Corps
JAG Corps
JAG
DJAG
NCIS
Boatswain's mates
Hospital corpsman
Naval Aviator
SEALs
Seabees
Master-at-arms
Operations specialist
SWCCs
Hispanic sailors
Training
Recruit
Naval Academy
Officer Candidate School
STA-21
NROTC
BESS
BFTT
CNATT
COMPTUEX
NAWCTSD
AIM
Naval Chaplaincy School
Naval Hospital Corps School
Naval Justice School
Naval Postgraduate School
United States Armed Forces School of Music
Navy Senior Enlisted Academy
Navy Supply Corps School
Naval War College
Nuclear Power School
JMTC
TOPGUN
USNTPS
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences
Equipment
Uniforms
Awards and decorations
Badges
Current fleet
Future fleet
Reserve fleet
Current aircraft
Weapons
Naval reactors
History and  traditions
History
"Anchors Aweigh"
Blue Angels
Continental Navy
Ensign
Fleet bands
Fleet Week
Jack
Line-crossing ceremony
National Museum
Navy Band
Ceremonial Guard
Navy Flag
Navy Hymn
Navy Memorial
Navy service numbers
Navy Weeks
Revolt of the Admirals
Sailor's Creed
Ship commissioning
Ship decommissioning
Ship naming conventions
Tingey House
USS Constitution
WAVES
Wetting-down
United States battleship retirement debate
vte United States military bandsU.S. ArmyPremier ensembles
Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps
U.S. Army Band
U.S. Army Field Band
West Point Band
Specialized units of premier ensembles
Downrange
Hellcats
Jazz Ambassadors
U.S. Army Blues
U.S. Army Chorus
U.S. Army Herald Trumpets
U.S. Army Soldiers' Chorus
U.S. Army Strings
Six-String Soldiers
Unit bands
13th Army Band
25th Army Band
76th Army Band
77th Army Band
78th Army Band
100th Army Band
191st Army Band
338th Army Band
I Corps Band
323rd Army Band
Former bands
The Jazz Knights
Signal Corps Band
Military Intelligence Corps Band
Civilian bands
U.S. Army All-American Marching Band
U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine CorpsPremier ensembles
U.S. Marine Band
U.S. Marine Drum and Bugle Corps
U.S. Naval Academy Band
U.S. Navy Band
Specialized units of premier ensembles
Commodores
Country Current
Cruisers
Sea Chanters
Naval fleet bands
Naval Forces Europe Band
Seventh Fleet Band
Pacific Fleet Band
Navy Band Northwest
Navy Band Great Lakes
Navy Band Southwest
Navy Band Northeast
Navy Band Mid-South
Navy Band Southeast
U.S. Fleet Forces Band
Marine wing/division bands
United States Marine Band
Quantico Marine Corps Band
Parris Island Marine Band
Marine Corps Band San Diego
1st Marine Division Band
2nd Marine Division Band
2nd Marine Aircraft Wing Band
3rd Marine Aircraft Wing Band
Marine Corps Forces, Pacific Band
Marine Forces Reserve Band
Former bands
Navy Band New Orleans
Navy Band South
III Marine Amphibious Force Band
Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms Band
U.S. Air ForcePremier ensembles
U.S. Air Force Band
U.S. Air Force Academy Band
Specialized units of premier ensembles
Max Impact
Regional bands
Air Force in Europe Band
Air Force Band of Flight
Air Force Band of the Golden West
Air Force Band of Mid-America
Air Force Band of the Pacific - Asia
Air Force Band of the Pacific
Air Force Band of the West
Air Force Heritage of America Band
Air Force Heartland of America Band
Air Force Academy Drum and Bugle Corps
Former bands
Air Force Band of Liberty
Band of the Air Force Reserve
Tops in Blue
U.S. Air Force Pipe Band
U.S. Coast GuardPremier ensembles
U.S. Coast Guard Band
Other bands
U.S. Coast Guard Pipe Band
U.S. Coast Guard Auxillery Band
State defense forces
Maryland Defense Force Band * Oregon State Defense Force Pipe Band
Corps of Cadets /Midshipmen
Citadel Regimental Band and Pipes
Fightin' Texas Aggie Band
Golden Eagle Band
Highty-Tighties
Merchant Marine Academy Regimental Band
Authority control International
ISNI
VIAF
National
France
BnF data
Germany
United States
Artists
MusicBrainz
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=United_States_Navy_Band&oldid=1160575598"
Categories: Wind bandsMusical groups established in 1925Bands of the United States NavyCeremonial units of the United States military1925 establishments in the United StatesWashington Navy YardHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from April 2017Articles needing additional references from October 2018All articles needing additional referencesShort description is different from WikidataArticles with hAudio microformatsWikipedia articles needing clarification from March 2021Official website not in WikidataArticles with ISNI identifiersArticles with VIAF identifiersArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with MusicBrainz identifiers
 This page was last edited on 17 June 2023, at 12:02 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width