Uzbek language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Classification
2Number of speakers
3Etymology and background
4History
5Writing systems
6Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
6.1Vowels
6.2Consonants
7Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
7.1Nouns
7.2Verbs
7.3Pronouns
7.4Word order
8Influences
9Dialects
10By country
Toggle By country subsection
10.1Turkmenistan
10.2Russia
10.3Uzbek language researchers
11Sample Text
12See also
13Notes
14References
15Sources
16External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Uzbek language
115 languages
АдыгабзэAfrikaansአማርኛАԥсшәаالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGagauzGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliКомиКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟМокшеньМонголNederlandsनेपाल भाषा日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусскийСаха тылаᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsSimple EnglishSlovenčinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVahcuenghTiếng Việt文言吴语粵語Žemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Karluk Turkic language of Central Asia
UzbekOʻzbekcha, oʻzbek tili,Ўзбекча, ўзбек тили,اۉزبېکچه, اۉزبېک تیلیUzbek in Latin, Perso-Arabic Nastaliq, and Cyrillic scripts.Native toUzbekistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and ChinaRegionCentral AsiaEthnicityUzbeksNative speakers33 million (incl. 27.7 million Northern Uzbek & 5.3 million Southern Uzbek) (2022)[1]Language familyTurkic
Common TurkicKarluk[2]UzbekEarly formsKarakhanid
Khorezmian
Chagatai
Writing system
Latin (Uzbek alphabet)
Cyrillic
Perso-Arabic[a]
Uzbek Braille
(Uzbek alphabets)
Official statusOfficial language in
Uzbekistan
Organization of Turkic States
Recognised minoritylanguage in
Afghanistan[b]
China[4]
Tajikistan
Kazakhstan
Turkmenistan
Kyrgyzstan
Language codesISO 639-1uzISO 639-2uzbISO 639-3uzb – inclusive codeIndividual codes:uzn – Northernuzs – SouthernGlottologuzbe1247Linguasphere44-AAB-da, dbDark blue = majority; light blue = minorityThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Uzbek[c] (pronounced [ozˈbekt͡ʃæ; ozˈbek tɨˈlɨ]), formerly known as Turki, is a Turkic language spoken by Uzbeks. It is the official, and national language of Uzbekistan. Uzbek is spoken as either native or second language by 44 million people around the world (L1+L2), making it the second-most widely spoken Turkic language after Turkish. There are two major variants of the Uzbek language, Northern Uzbek spoken in Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and China and Southern Uzbek spoken in Afghanistan and Pakistan.[5][6]
Uzbek belongs to the Eastern Turkic or Karluk branch of the Turkic language family. External influences include Arabic, Persian and Russian.[7] One of the most noticeable distinctions of Uzbek from other Turkic languages is the rounding of the vowel /ɑ/ to /ɔ/, a phoneme that was shared by neighbouring Tajik, a variety of the Persian language. Unlike other Turkic languages, vowel harmony is almost completely lost in modern Standard Uzbek, though it is still observed to some degree in its dialects, as well as in its sister Karluk language Uyghur. Nevertheless, the significant influence of Kazakh (a Kipchak Turkic language) makes Uzbek markedly distinct from Uyghur with regard to some grammatical aspects. Apart from Kipchak influences, Uzbek also shows some features from Oghuz group (for example, in its grammar) and Persian, all of which gives Uzbek an impression of being a mixed language.[8]
In February 2021, the Uzbek government announced that Uzbekistan plans to fully transition the Uzbek language from the Cyrillic script to a Latin-based alphabet by 1 January 2023.[9][10] Similar deadlines had been extended several times.[11]
Classification[edit]
Main article: Turkic languages
Uzbek is a member of the Karluk languages, a sub-group of Turkic languages, belonging to the western branch, while the eastern variety carries the name Uyghur. Since the family is classified to be a dialect continuum, it can be noted that it is found to be the most suitable variety or dialect to be understood by the most number of various Turkic language speakers, despite it being heavily Persianized,[12] excluding the Siberian Turkic languages.[13]
A high degree of mutual intelligibility found between certain specific Turkic languages, geographically located close or sometimes further from the area where Uzbek is spoken, has allowed the speakers of Uzbek to (with ease) comprehend various other distantly related languages.
Number of speakers[edit]
Uzbek, being the most widely spoken indigenous language in Central Asia, is as well spoken by smaller ethnic groups in Uzbekistan and in neighbouring countries. 
The language is spoken by other ethnic groups outside Uzbekistan. The popularity of Uzbek media, including Uzbekfilm and RizanovaUz, has spread among the Post-soviet states, particularly in Central Asia in recent years. Since Uzbek is the dominant language in the Osh Region of Kyrgyzstan[citation needed] (and mothertongue of the city Osh), like the rest of Eastern, Southern and South-Eastern Kyrgyzstan (Jalal-Abad Region), the ethnic Kyrgyzes are, too, exposed to Uzbek, and some speak it fluently. This is a common situation in the rest of Central Asian republics, including: the Turkistan region of Kazakhstan, northern Daşoguz Welaýat of Turkmenistan,[14] Sughd region and other regions of Tajikistan.[15] This puts the number of L2 speakers of Uzbek at a varying 1–5 million speakers.
The Uzbek language has a special status in countries that are common destination for immigration for Uzbekistani citizens. Other than Uzbekistan and other Central Asian Republics, the ethnic Uzbeks most commonly choose the Russian Federation[16] in search of work. Most of them however, are seasonal workers, whose numbers vary greatly among residency within the Russian Federation. According to Russian government statistics, 4.5 million workers from Uzbekistan, 2.4 million from Tajikistan, and 920,000 from Kyrgyzstan were working in Russia in 2021, with around 5 million being ethnic Uzbeks.[16]
Estimates of the number of native speakers of Uzbek vary widely, from 35 up to 40 million. Ethnologue estimates put the number of native speakers at 35 million across all the recognized dialects. The Swedish national encyclopedia, Nationalencyklopedin, estimates the number of native speakers to be 38 million,[17]
and the CIA World Factbook estimates 30 million. Other sources estimate the number of speakers of Uzbek to be 34 million in Uzbekistan,[18] 4.5 million in Afghanistan,[19] 1,630,000 in Pakistan,[5] 1,500,000 in Tajikistan,[20] about 1 million in Kyrgyzstan,[21] 600,000 in Kazakhstan,[22] 600,000 in Turkmenistan,[23] and 300,000 in Russia.[24]
Etymology and background[edit]
Main article: Uzbeks
Historically, the language under the name "Uzbek" was referred to a totally different language of Kipchak origin. The language was generally similar to the neighbouring Kazakh, more or less identical lexically, phonetically and grammatically. It was dissimilar to the area's indigenous and native language, known as Turki, until it was changed to Chagatai by western scholars due to its origins from the Chagatai Khanate.[25]
The ethnonym of the language itself now means "a language spoken by the Uzbeks."
History[edit]
Main article: Uzbek people
Turkic speakers probably settled the Amu Darya, Syr Darya and Zarafshan river basins from at least 600–650 CE, gradually ousting or assimilating the speakers of Eastern Iranian languages who previously inhabited Sogdia, Bactria and Khwarazm. The first Turkic dynasty in the region was that of the Kara-Khanid Khanate in the 9th–12th centuries,[26] who were a confederation of Karluks, Chigils, Yaghma and other tribes.[27]
Uzbek can be considered the direct descendant or a later form of Chagatai, the language of great Turkic Central Asian literary development in the realm of Chagatai Khan, Timur (Tamerlane), and the Timurid dynasty[28] (including the early Mughal rulers Mughal Empire of India). The language was championed by Ali-Shir Nava'i in the 15th and 16th centuries. Nava'i was the greatest representative of Chagatai language literature.[29][30] He significantly contributed to the development of the Chagatai language and its direct descendant Uzbek and is widely considered to be the founder of Uzbek literature.[31][32][33][34][35][36][37] Ultimately based on the Karluk variant of the Turkic languages, Chagatai contained large numbers of Persian and Arabic loanwords. By the 19th century it was rarely used for literary composition, but disappeared only in the early 20th century.
Uzbek ruler Shaybani Khan wrote poetry under the pseudonym "Shibani". A collection of poems by Shaybani Khan, written in the Central Asian Turkic literary language, is currently kept in the Topkapi manuscript collection in Istanbul. The manuscript of his philosophical and religious work: "Bahr ul-Khudo", written in the Central Asian Turkic literary language in 1508, is located in London.[38] Shaybani-khan's nephew Ubaydulla Khan skillfully recited the Koran and provided it with commentaries in the Turkic language. Ubaydulla himself wrote poetry in Turkic, Persian and Arabic under the literary pseudonym Ubaydiy.[39]
For the Uzbek political elite of the 16th century, the Turki language was native. For example, the leader of the semi-nomadic Uzbeks, Sheibani Khan (1451–1510), wrote poems in the Central Asian Turkic (Chagatai) language.[40]
The Uzbek poet Turdiy (17th century) in his poems, written in the Turki literary language, called for the unification of the divided Uzbek tribes: Although our people are divided, but these are all Uzbeks of ninety-two tribes. We have different names – we all have the same blood. We are one people, and we should have one law. Floors, sleeves and collars – it's all – one robe, So the Uzbek people are united, may they be in peace.[41]
Sufi Allayar (1633–1721) was an outstanding Uzbek theologian and one of the Sufi leaders of the Bukhara Khanate. He showed his level of knowledge by writing a book in the Turki language "Sabatul-azhizin". Sufi Allayar was often read and highly appreciated in Central Asia.[42]
The term Uzbek as applied to language has meant different things at different times. 
Uzbek was a vowel-harmonised Kipchak language spoken by descendants of those who arrived in Transoxiana in medieval period, who lived mainly around Bukhara and Samarkand.
Turki was a Karluk language spoken by the older settled Turkic populations of the region (called Sarts) in the Fergana Valley and the Qashqadaryo Region, and in some parts of what is now the Samarqand Region; it contained a heavier admixture of Persian and Arabic, and did not have vowel harmony. It became the standard Uzbek language and the official dialect of Uzbekistan.
According to the Kazakh scholar Serali Lapin, who lived at the end of the 19th – beginning of the 20th century, “there is no special Sart language different from Uzbek[43] Russian researchers of the second half of the 19th century, like L. N. Sobolev, believed that: “Sart is not a special tribe, as many tried to prove. Sart is indifferently called both Uzbek and Tajik, who live in the city and are engaged in trade.[44]
In Khanate of Khiva, Sarts spoke a highly Oghuz Turkified form of Turki which belonged to the Karluk branch of the Turkic language family. All three dialects continue to exist within modern spoken Uzbek.
Writing systems[edit]
A 1911 text in the Arabic alphabet
Covers of translated books in Uzbek. As can be seen, both Latin and Cyrillic scripts are widely used in the country. Most names are also transliterated, for example Yohann Volfgang Gyote is equivalent to Johann Wolfgang Goethe.
Main article: Uzbek alphabet
Uzbek has been written in a variety of scripts throughout history:
1000–1920s: The traditional Arabic script, first in the Qarakhanid standard and next in the Chagatai standard. This is seen as the golden age of the Uzbek language and literary history.
1920–1928: the Arabic-based Yaña imlâ alphabet.[45]
1928–1940: the Latin-based Yañalif was imposed officially.
1940–1992: the Cyrillic script was used officially.[46]
Since 1992: Switch back to Latin script, with heavy holdover usage of Cyrillic.
Despite the official status of the Latin script in Uzbekistan, the use of Cyrillic is still widespread, especially in advertisements and signs. In newspapers, scripts may be mixed, with headlines in Latin and articles in Cyrillic.[47] The Arabic script is no longer used in Uzbekistan except symbolically in limited texts[47] or for the academic studies of Chagatai (Old Uzbek).[45]
In 2019, an updated version of the Uzbek Latin alphabet was revealed by the Uzbek government, with five letters being updated; it was proposed to represent the sounds "ts", "sh", "ch", "oʻ" and "gʻ" by the letters "c", "ş", "ç", "ó" and "ǵ", respectively.[48] This reverses a 1995 reform, and brings the orthography closer to that of Turkish and also of Turkmen, Karakalpak, Kazakh (2018 version) and Azerbaijani.[49] In 2021, it was proposed to change "sh", "ch", "oʻ" and "gʻ" to "ş", "ç", "ō" and "ḡ".[50][51] These proposals were not implemented.
In the western Chinese region of Xinjiang, in northern Afghanistan and in Pakistan,[52] where there is an Uzbek minority, the Arabic-based script is still used. In the early 21st century, in Afghanistan, standardization, publication of dictionaries, and an increase in usage (for example in News agencies' website, such as that of the BBC) has been taking place.
Modern Latin alphabet
А а
B b
D d
Е е
F f
G g
H h
I i
J j
K k
L l
М m
N n
О о
P p
Q q
R r
S s
Т t
U u
V v
X x
Y y
Z z
Oʻ oʻ
Gʻ gʻ
Sh sh
Ch ch
Ng ng
Cyrillic alphabet
А а
Б б
В в
Г г
Д д
Е е
Ё ё
Ж ж
З з
И и
Й й
К к
Л л
М м
Н н
О о
П п
Р р
С с
Т т
У у
Ф ф
Х х
Ц ц
Ч ч
Ш ш
Ъ ъ
Ь ь
Э э
Ю ю
Я я
Ў ў
Қ қ
Ғ ғ
Ҳ ҳ
Modern Arabic alphabet
ا / آ
ب
پ
ت
ث
ج
چ
ح
خ
د
ذ
ر
ز
ژ
س
ش
ص
ض
ط
ظ
ع
غ
ف
ق
ک
گ
ل
م
ن
نگ
و
ۉ
هـ
ی
ی
ې
Phonology[edit]
Words are usually oxytones (i.e. the last syllable is stressed), but certain endings and suffixal particles are not stressed.[which?][citation needed]
Vowels[edit]
Standard Uzbek has six vowel phonemes.[53] Uzbek language has many dialects: contrary to many Turkic languages, Standard Uzbek (due to being based on one of the so-called Iranized Uzbek dialects[54]) no longer has vowel harmony, but other dialects (Kipchak Uzbek and Oghuz Uzbek) retain vowel harmony.
Front
Central
Back
Close
i
u
Mid
e
o
Open-mid
ɔ
Open
æ ~ ɑ
/i/ and /u/ can have short allophones [ɪ] and [ʊ], and central allophones [ɨ̞] and [ʉ]. /ɔ/ can have an open back allophone [ɒ].
/i/ and /æ/ can become [ɨ] and [a] when the syllable or the vowel is adjacent to the phonemes /q/, /ʁ/, and /χ/ (yaxshi "good" [jaχˈʃɨ]).
Consonants[edit]
Labial
Dental
Alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Uvular
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ŋ
Plosive/Affricate
voiceless
p
t̪
(t͡s)
t͡ʃ
k
q
(ʔ)
voiced
b
d̪
d͡ʒ
ɡ
Fricative
voiceless
ɸ
s
ʃ
χ
h
voiced
w~v
z
(ʒ)
ʁ
Approximant
l
j
Tap / Flap
ɾ
Grammar[edit]
As a Turkic language, Uzbek is null subject, agglutinative and has no articles and no noun classes (gender or otherwise). The word order is subject–object–verb (SOV).
In Uzbek, there are two main categories of words: nominals (equivalent to nouns, pronouns, adjectives and some adverbs) and verbals (equivalent to verbs and some adverbs).
Nouns[edit]
Plurals are formed by suffix -lar. Nouns take the -ni suffix as a definite article, unsuffixed nouns are understood as indefinite. The dative case ending -ga changes to -ka when the noun ends in -k, or -qa when the noun ends in -q or -ǵ (notice *tog‘qa → toqqa). The possessive suffixes change the final consonants -k and -q to voiced -g and -ǵ, respectively (yurak → yuragim).[55] Unlike neighbouring Turkmen and Kazakh languages, due to the loss of pronominal -n there is no irregularity on forming cases after possessive cases (uyida "in his/her/its house", as opposed to Turkmen öýünde).[56]
Cases
Suffix
Case
Example
Translation
-∅
nominative
uy
house
-ning
genitive
uyning
of (the) house
-ga
dative
uyga
to the house
-ni
definite accusative
uyni
the house
-da
locative
uyda
in the house
-dan
ablative
uydan
from the house
Possessive cases
Possessornumber
Singular
Plural
1st
-(i)m
-(i)miz
2nd
-(i)ng
-(i)ngiz
3rd
-(s)i
Verbs[edit]
Uzbek verbs are also inflected for number and person of the subject, and it has more periphrases. Uzbek uses some of the inflectional (simple) verbal tenses:[57]
Non-finite tense suffixes
Function
Suffix
Infinitive
-moq
Finite tense suffixes
Function
Suffix
Present-future
-a/y
Focal present
-yap
Momentary present
-yotir[1]
Progressive present
-moqda
Definite past
-di
Indefinite past
-gan
Indirective past
-ib
Definite future
-(y)ajak[2]
Obligatory future
-adigan/ydigan
Imperative
-∅
-ing (formal)
^ Cognate with Turkish present continuous suffix -(i)yor[58]
^ This suffix is likely a borrowing from Ottoman Turkish[59]
Pronouns[edit]
Pronoun
Translation
men
I
biz
we
sen
you(informal singular)
siz
you(formal singular and plural)
sizlar
you(plural)
u
he/she/it
ular
they
Word order[edit]
The word order in the Uzbek language is subject–object–verb (SOV), like all other Turkic languages. Unlike in English, the object comes before the verb and the verb is the last element of the sentence.
Men1SGsubjectkitobnibookdirect objectkórdimsee-PRES.INDtransitive verbMen kitobni kórdim1SG book see-PRES.INDsubject {direct object} {transitive verb}I saw the book
Influences[edit]
The influence of Islam, and by extension, Arabic, is evident in Uzbek loanwords. There is also a residual influence of Russian, from the time when Uzbeks were under the rule of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union. There are a lot of Russian loanwords in Uzbek, particularly when related to technical and modern terms, as well everyday and sociopolitical terms. Most importantly, Uzbek vocabulary, phraseology and pronunciation has been heavily influenced by Persian through its historic roots.
Dialects[edit]
A man speaking Uzbek
Uzbek can be roughly divided into three dialect groups. The Karluk dialects, centered on Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara, and the Ferghana Valley, are the basis for the standard Uzbek language. This dialect group shows the most influence of Persian vocabulary, particularly in the important Turkic cities of Bukhara and Samarkand. The Kipchak dialect, spoken from the Surxondaryo region
 through north-central Uzbekistan into Karakalpakstan, shows significant influence from the Kipchak Turkic languages, particularly in the mutation of [j] to [ʑ] as in Kazakh and Kyrgyz. The Oghuz dialect, spoken mainly in Khorezm along the Turkmenistan border, is notable for the mutation of word-initial [k] to [g].
By country[edit]
Turkmenistan[edit]
In Turkmenistan since the 2000s the government conducted a forced "Turkmenization" of ethnic Uzbeks living in the country.[60][61][62] In the Soviet years and in the 1990s, the Uzbek language was used freely in Turkmenistan. There were several hundred schools in the Uzbek language, many newspapers were published in this language. Now there are only a few Uzbek schools in the country, as well as a few newspapers in Uzbek. Despite this, the Uzbek language is still considered to be one of the recognized languages of national minorities in this country. Approximately 300,000–600,000 Uzbeks live in Turkmenistan. Most of the Uzbek speakers live in Dashoghuz Velayat, as well as in Lebap Velayat and partly in Ashghabad.[63]
Russia[edit]
Uzbek is one of the many recognized languages of national minorities in Russia. More than 400 thousand Uzbeks are citizens of the Russian Federation and live in the country. Also in Russia there are 2 to 6 million Uzbeks from the Central Asian republics (mainly Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan) who are immigrants and migrants. Large diasporas of Uzbeks live in such large cities of Russia as Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, Novosibirsk, Kazan, Volgograd, Samara, Rostov-on-Don, Perm, Nizhny Novgorod, Chelyabinsk, Vladivostok, Ufa, Krasnoyarsk, Omsk, Krasnodar, Voronezh, Saratov and Tyumen. Signs in Uzbek are often found in these cities. Signs refer mainly to various restaurants and eateries, barbershops, shops selling fruits, vegetables and textile products. There is a small clinic, where signs and labels are in the Uzbek language. There are also illegal signs in Uzbek on the streets of these cities with underground sex services ("Call girls"). Uzbeks in Russia prefer to use the Cyrillic Uzbek alphabet, but in recent years Uzbek youth in Russia are also actively using the Latin Uzbek alphabet. Small newspapers in Uzbek are published in large cities of Russia.[64][65][66] Some instructions for immigrants and migrants are duplicated, including in Uzbek. Uzbek language is studied by Russian students in the faculties of Turkology throughout Russia.[citation needed] The largest Uzbek language learning centers in Russia are located in the universities of Moscow and Saint Petersburg. There are also many Russians who are interested in and love the Uzbek language and culture and who study this language for themselves. Uzbek is one of the most studied languages among the many languages of the former USSR in Russia. Native speakers of Uzbek in Russia usually use in their vocabulary a lot of words from Russian.[67]
Uzbek language researchers[edit]
Scientific interest in the history of the Uzbek language arose in the 19th century among European and Russian orientalists. A. Vambery, V. Bartold, Sh. Lapin and others wrote about the history of the Uzbek language. Much attention was paid to the study of the history of the language in the Soviet period. E. Polivanov, N.Baskakov,[68] A.Kononov,[69] U. Tursunov, A. Mukhtarov, Sh. Rakhmatullaev and others wrote about the history of the Uzbek language among famous linguists.
Sample Text[edit]
The following is a sample text in Uzbek Arabic script of Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (with English version in the bottom,) contrasted with a version of the text in Uzbek written in Latin script.
Uzbek Arabic:
برچه آدملر اېرکین، قدر-قیمت و حقوقلرده تېنگ بۉلیب توغیلدیلر. اولر عقل و وجدان صاحبیدیرلر و بیر-بیرلری ایله برادرلرچه معامله قیلیشلری ضرور.
Uzbek Latin:
Barcha odamlar erkin, qadr-qimmat va huquqlarda teng boʻlib tugʻiladilar. Ular aql va vijdon sohibidirlar va bir-birlari ila birodarlarcha muomala qilishlari zarur.
Uzbek Cyrillic:
Барча одамлар эркин, қадр-қиммат ва ҳуқуқларда тенг бўлиб туғиладилар. Улар ақл ва виждон соҳибидирлар ва бир-бирлари ила биродарларча муомала қилишлари зарур.
IPA:
/bart͡ʃa ɒd̪amlar erkɪn, qad̪r-qɨmmat̪ va huquqlard̪a t̪eŋ bɵlɨp t̪uʁɨlad̪ɨlar. ular aql va vɪd͡ʒd̪ɒn sɒhɨbɨdɨrlar va bɨr-bɨrlarɨ ila bɨrɒdarlart͡ʃa muɒmala qɨlɨʃlarɨ zarur/
English original:
"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood."
See also[edit]
Chagatai language
Southern Uzbek language
Uzbek literature
Notes[edit]
^ Used in Afghanistan, Pakistan and China
^ Third official language in areas where Uzbeks are majority[3]
^ Uzbek: Ўзбекча, Ўзбек тили / Oʻzbekcha, Oʻzbek tili / اۉزبېکچه, اۉزبېک تیلی
References[edit]
^ Uzbek at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)Northern at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)Southern at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ Scott Newton (20 November 2014). Law and the Making of the Soviet World: The Red Demiurge. Routledge. pp. 232–. ISBN 978-1-317-92978-9.
^ [1] From amongst Pashto, Dari, Uzbeki, Turkmani, Baluchi, Pachaie, Nuristani, Pamiri and other current languages in the country, Pashto and Dari shall be the official languages of the state. In areas where the majority of the people speak in any one of Uzbeki, Turkmani, Pachaie, Nuristani, Baluchi or Pamiri languages, any of the aforementioned language, in addition to Pashto and Dari, shall be the third official language, the usage of which shall be regulated by law.
^ Ethnic Groups and Religious department, Fujian Provincial Government (13 September 2022). "少数民族的语言文字有哪些？". fujian.gov.cn (in Chinese). Archived from the original on 28 October 2022. Retrieved 28 October 2022.
^ a b "Uzbek, Southern". Ethnologue. Retrieved 29 December 2022.
^ "Uzbek, Northern". Ethnologue. Retrieved 29 December 2022.
^ Dalby, Andrew (1998). Dictionary of languages : the definitive reference to more than 400 languages. New York: Columbia University Press. ISBN 1-4081-0214-5. OCLC 320322204.
^ Turaeva, Rano (19 November 2015). Migration and Identity in Central Asia. Routledge. ISBN 9781317430070.
^ Uzbekistan Aims For Full Transition To Latin-Based Alphabet By 2023, February 12, 2021 12:54 GMT, RadioFreeEurope
^ "В Узбекистане в 2023 году узбекский алфавит в делопроизводстве переведут с кириллицы на латинскую графику".
^ "Uzbekistan: Keeping the Karakalpak Language Alive". 17 May 2019. Archived from the original on 17 May 2019. Retrieved 14 April 2022.
^ "The Weird Case of the Uzbek Language".
^ "Uzbek, "the penguin of Turkic languages"". 25 February 2011.
^ "What Languages Are Spoken in Turkmenistan?". 12 June 2019.
^ "What Languages Are Spoken in Tajikistan?". August 2017.
^ a b "Central Asians in Russia Pressured to Join Moscow's Fight in Ukraine". 17 March 2022.
^ "Världens 100 största språk 2007" ("The World's 100 Largest Languages in 2007"), Nationalencyklopedin
^ "Uzbekistan". CIA. Retrieved 7 December 2012.
^ "Languages of Afghanistan". Ethnologue. Retrieved 7 December 2012.
^ "Languages of Tajikistan". Ethnologue. Retrieved 7 December 2012.
^ "Ethnic Makeup of the Population" (PDF). National Statistics Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic (in Russian). Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 November 2013. Retrieved 7 December 2012.
^ "National Census 2009" (PDF). Statistics Agency of Kazakhstan (in Russian). Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 December 2010. Retrieved 7 December 2010.
^ "Languages of Turkmenistan". Ethnologue. Retrieved 7 December 2012.
^ "National Census 2010". Federal State Statistics Service (in Russian). Archived from the original on 6 October 2021. Retrieved 7 December 2012.
^ Vladimir Babak; Demian Vaisman; Aryeh Wasserman (23 November 2004). Political Organization in Central Asia and Azerbaijan: Sources and Documents. Routledge. pp. 343–. ISBN 978-1-135-77681-7.
^ "The Origins of the Uzbek Language" (in Russian). Archived from the original on 2 September 2013. Retrieved 5 January 2013.
^ Golden, Peter. B. (1990), "Chapter 13 – The Karakhanids and Early Islam", in Sinor, Denis (ed.), The Cambridge History of Early Inner Asia, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-24304-1
^ Allworth, Edward (1994). Central Asia: 130 Years of Russian Dominance, a Historical Overview. Duke University Press. p. 72. ISBN 0-8223-1521-1.
^ Robert McHenry, ed. (1993). "Navā'ī, (Mir) 'Alī Shīr". Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 8 (15th ed.). Chicago: Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. p. 563.
^ Subtelny, M. E. (1993). "Mīr 'Alī Shīr Nawā'ī". In C. E. Bosworth; E. Van Donzel; W. P. Heinrichs; Ch. Pellat (eds.). Encyclopaedia of Islam. Vol. VII. Leiden—New York: Brill Publishers. pp. 90–93.
^ Valitova, A. A. (1974). "Alisher Navoi". In A. M. Prokhorov (ed.). Great Soviet Encyclopedia (in Russian). Vol. 17 (3rd ed.). Moscow: Soviet Encyclopedia. pp. 194–195.
^ A. M. Prokhorov, ed. (1997). "Navoi, Nizamiddin Mir Alisher". Great Encyclopedic Dictionary (in Russian) (2nd ed.). Saint Petersburg: Great Russian Encyclopedia. p. 777.
^ "Alisher Navoi". Writers History. Archived from the original on 16 October 2013. Retrieved 26 January 2012.
^ Maxim Isaev (7 July 2009). "Uzbekistan – The monuments of classical writers of oriental literature are removed in Samarqand". Ferghana News. Archived from the original on 11 September 2011. Retrieved 26 January 2012.
^ Kamola Akilova. "Alisher Navoi and his epoch in the context of Uzbekistan art culture development [sic]". San'at Magazine. Archived from the original on 24 January 2012. Retrieved 28 January 2012.
^ "Uzbek Culture". UzHotels. Archived from the original on 9 May 2012. Retrieved 27 January 2012.
^ "Alisher Navoi – The Crown of Literature". Kitob.uz Children's Digital Library (in Uzbek). Retrieved 8 February 2012.[permanent dead link]
^ A.J.E.Bodrogligeti, «Muhammad Shaybanî’s Bahru’l-huda : An Early Sixteenth Century Didactic Qasida in Chagatay», Ural-Altaische Jahrbücher, vol.54 (1982), p. 1 and n.4
^ B. V. Norik, Rol shibanidskikh praviteley v literaturnoy zhizni Maverannakhra XVI v. // Rakhmat-name. Sankt Petersburg, 2008, p.230
^ A.J.E.Bodrogligeti, «MuÌammad Shaybænî’s Bahru’l-huda : An Early Sixteenth Century Didactic Qasida in Chagatay», Ural-Altaische Jahrbücher, vol.54 (1982), p. 1 and n.4
^ Turdy. Izbrannyye proizvedeniya. Tashkent, 1951, p.33
^ "Sûfî Allahyâr".
^ Bronnikova O. M., Sarty v etnicheskoy istorii Sredney Azii (k postanovke problemy) Etnosy i etnicheskiye protsessy. Moskva: Vostochnaya literatura, 1993, s. 153.
^ Sobolev L. N. Geograficheskiye i statisticheskiye svedeniya o Zeravshanskom okruge (s prilozheniyem spiska naselonnykh mest okruga), Zapiski IRGO po otdeleniyu statistiki. SPb., 1874. T.4. S. 299. Prim. 1.
^ a b Batalden, Stephen K. (1997). The Newly Independent States of Eurasia: Handbook of Former Soviet Republics. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 194. ISBN 978-0-89774-940-4.
^ William., Fierman (2 May 2011). Language Planning and National Development : the Uzbek Experience. Walter de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-085338-4. OCLC 979586152.
^ a b European Society for Central Asian Studies. International Conference (2005). Central Asia on Display. LIT Verlag Münster. p. 221. ISBN 978-3-8258-8309-6.
^ "Uzbekistan unveils its latest bash at Latin alphabet". 22 May 2019. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ Goble, Paul (27 May 2019). "Uzbekistan Moves to Make Its Latin Script Closer to One Used in Turkey". Window on Eurasia – New Series. Retrieved 27 May 2019.
^ "Проект нового узбекского алфавита представлен для обсуждения". Газета.uz (in Russian). 16 March 2021. Retrieved 2 April 2021.
^ "Uzbekistan unveils its latest bash at Latin alphabet". 22 May 2019. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ Inc, IBP (July 2017). Afghanistan Labor Policy, Laws and Regulations Handbook: Strategic Information and Regulations. Lulu.com. ISBN 978-1-4387-8020-7. {{cite book}}: |last= has generic name (help)
^ Sjoberg, Andrée F. (1963). Uzbek Structural Grammar (PDF). Uralic and Altaic Series. Vol. 18. Bloomington: Indiana University. pp. 16–18.
^ Allworth, Edward (14 August 1994). Central Asia, 130 Years of Russian Dominance. Duke University Press. p. 69. ISBN 0822315211.
^ Ahmedjanova, Zumrad, "Uzbek Language" (PDF), slaviccenters.duke.edu
^ Johanson, Lars; Brown, Keith; Ogilvie, Sarah (2009). Concise Encyclopedia of Languages of the World. Elsevier. pp. 1145–1148. ISBN 978-0-08-087774-7.
^ The Uzbek tense-aspect-modality system
^ Intransitive Predication. p. 384.
^ Johanson, Lars; Bulut, Christiane (14 August 2023). Turkic-Iranian Contact Areas. Otto Harrassowitz Verlag. p. 138. ISBN 9783447052764.
^ memohrc.org — "Туркменизация" руководящих кадров в Дашогузе
^ iamik.ru — Туркменизация узбеков
^ vb.kg — В Туркмении завершается принудительная туркменизация
^ 365info.kz — Туркменские узбеки тихо ликуют и следят за Мирзиёевым
^ fergananews.com — В Москве начинает выходить газета на узбекском языке
^ vesti.kg — В Москве начинает выходить газета на узбекском языке
^ caravan.kz — В Москве начинает выходить газета на узбекском языке
^ the-village.ru — Москвичи, изучающие узбекский, таджикский и молдавский языки
^ Baskakov N. A. Istoriko-tipologicheskaya fonologiya tyurkskikh yazykov M.: Nauka, 1988.
^ Kononov A. N. Grammatika sovremennogo uzbekskogo literaturnogo yazyka. M., L.: Izdatel'stvo AN SSSR, 1960
Sources[edit]
Mamatov, Jahangir; Kadirova, Karamat (2008). Comprehensive Uzbek-English Dictionary. Hyattsville, Maryland: Dunwoody Press. ISBN 978-1-931546-83-6. OCLC 300453555.
Csató, Éva Ágnes; Johanson, Lars (1936). The Turkic Languages. London: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-41261-7. OCLC 40980286.
Bregel, Yu (1978). "The Sarts in The Khanate of Khiva". Journal of Asian History. 12 (2): 120–151. JSTOR 41930294.
Bodrogligeti, András J. E. (2002). Modern Literary Uzbek: A Manual for Intensive Elementary, Intermediate, and Advanced Courses. München: Lincom Europa. ISBN 3-89586-695-4. OCLC 51061526.
Fierman, William (1991). Language Planning and National Development: The Uzbek Experience. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. ISBN 3-11-085338-8. OCLC 815507595.
Ismatullaev, Khaĭrulla (1995). Modern literary Uzbek I. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University, Research Institute for Inner Asian Studies. ISBN 0-933070-36-5. OCLC 34576336.
Karl, A. Krippes (1996). Uzbek-English Dictionary (Rev ed.). Kensington: Dunwoody Press. ISBN 1-881265-45-5. OCLC 35822650.
Sjoberg, Andrée Frances (1997). Uzbek Structural Grammar. Richmond: Curzon Press. ISBN 0-7007-0818-9. OCLC 468438031.
Waterson, Natalie (1980). Uzbek-English Dictionary. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-713597-8. OCLC 5100980.
Republic of Uzbekistan, Ministry of Higher and Middle Eductation. Lotin yozuviga asoslangan oʻzbek alifbosi va imlosi  (Latin writing based Uzbek alphabet and orthography), Tashkent Finance Institute: Tashkent, 2004.
A. Shermatov. "A New Stage in the Development of Uzbek Dialectology" in Essays on Uzbek History, Culture and Language. Ed. Bakhtiyar A. Nazarov & Denis Sinor. Bloomington, Indiana, 1993, pp. 101–9.
External links[edit]
 Uzbek  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikibooks has more on the topic of: Uzbek language
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Uzbek.
Converters
Uzbek Cyrillic–Latin converter
Uzbek Cyrillic–Latin text and website converter
Uzbek Latin–Cyrillic text and website converter
Dictionaries
Dictionary of the Uzbek Language Volume I (А—Р) Archived 18 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine (Tashkent, 1981)
Dictionary of the Uzbek Language, Volume II (С—Ҳ) Archived 18 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine (Tashkent, 1981)
English-Uzbek and Uzbek-English online dictionary
English-Uzbek and Uzbek-English online dictionary
Russian-Uzbek and Uzbek-Russian online dictionary
Uzbek to Persian/Dari Dictionary (Archive) [PDF] by Dr. Faizullah Aimaq, Toronto, Canada
Word translator from Southern Uzbek to Farsi
Uzbek<>Turkish dictionary (Pamukkale University)
Ole Olufsen: "A Vocabulary of the Dialect of Bokhara" [2] (København 1905)
Grammar and orthography
Introduction to the Uzbek Language, Mark Dickens
Principal Orthographic Rules For The Uzbek Language, translation of Uzbekistan Cabinet of Minister's Resolution No. 339, of August 24, 1995
Uzbek alphabet, Omniglot
Learning/teaching materials
Ona tili uz, a website about Uzbek
Uzbek language materials, Uz-Translations
vteLanguages of UzbekistanOfficial language
Uzbek
Regional languages
Karakalpak
Minority languages
Kazakh
Parya
Russian
Tajik
Uyghur
Sign languages
Russian Sign Language
vteLanguages of AfghanistanOfficial languages
Dari
Pashto
Afghanistan portalRegional languages
Balochi
Kyrgyz
Nuristani
Kamkata-vari
Kata-vari
Kamviri
Mumviri
Pashayi
Tajiki
Turkmen
Uzbek
Minority languages
Ashkunu
Brahui
Kamkata-vari
Khowar
Kyrgyz
Pamiri
Ishkashimi
Munji
Shughni
Yidgha
Tregami
Waigali
Wakhi
Vasi-vari
Zemiaki
Sign languages
Afghan Sign Language
vteLanguages of PakistanOfficial languages
Urdu (national)
English
Other languages(by administrative unit)Azad Kashmir
Dogri
Gujari
Kashmiri
Kundal Shahi
Pahari-Pothwari
Balochistan
Balochi
Brahui
Dehwari
Hazaragi
Jadgali
Khetrani
Pashto
Wanetsi
Gilgit-Baltistan
Balti
Burushaski
Dawoodi
Khowar
Purgi
Shina
Wakhi
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Burushaski
Badeshi
Bateri
Chilisso
Dameli
Gawar-Bati
Gowro
Hindko
Indus Kohistani
Kalami
Kalasha-mun
Kalkoti
Kamviri
Khowar
Kohistani Shina
Mankiyali
Munji
Ormuri
Palula
Pashto
Sawi
Shekhani
Torwali
Ushoji
Wazir
Yidgha
Punjab
Bagri
Dogri
Hindko
Kabutra
Marwari
Mewari
Pothwari Punjabi
Punjabi
dialects
Saraiki
Rajasthani
Rangri
Sindh
Aer
Bagri
Bengali
Bhaya
Dhatki
Goaria
Gujarati
Jandavra
Jogi
Koli
Kachi
Parkari
Wadiyara
Kutchi
Loarki
Marwari
Memoni
Mewari
Od
Rajasthani
Rangri
Sindhi
Urdu
Vaghri
Related topics
Indo-Aryan languages
Dardic languages
Iranic languages
Pakistani Sign Language
Arabic
Persian
Pakistani Hindi (Hindi)
Chagatai
vteLanguages of ChinaOfficial
Standard Mandarin
RegionalARs / SARs
CantoneseHK/MC
EnglishHK
MongolianNM
PortugueseMC
TibetanXZ
UyghurXJ
ZhuangGX
Prefecture
Hmong
Kam
Bouyei
Tujia
Korean
Qiang
Yi
Kyrgyz
Kazakh
Tai Nüa
Tai Lü
Zaiwa
Lisu
Bai
Hani
Zhuang
Counties/BannersnumerousIndigenousSino-Tibetan languagesLolo-BurmeseMondzish
Kathu
Maang
Manga
Mango
Maza
Mondzi
Muangphe
Burmish
Achang
Xiandao
Pela
Lashi
Chashan
Lhao Vo
Zaiwa
LoloishHanoish
Akeu
Akha
Amu
Angluo
Asuo
Baihong
Bisu
Budu
Bukong
Cosao
Duoni
Duota
Enu
Habei
Hani
Honi
Jino
Kabie
Kaduo
Lami
Laomian
Laopin
Mpi
Muda
Nuobi
Nuomei
Phana’
Piyo
Qidi
Sadu
Sangkong
Suobi
Tsukong
Woni
Yiche
Lisoish
Eka
Hlersu
Kua-nsi
Kuamasi
Laizisi
Lalo
Lamu
Lavu
Lawu
Limi
Lipo
Lisu
Lolopo
Mangdi
Micha
Mili
Sonaga
Toloza
Xuzhang
Yangliu
Zibusi
Nisoish
Alingpo
Alugu
Aluo
Axi
Azha
Azhe
Bokha
Gepo
Khlula
Lope
Moji
Muji
Muzi
Nasu
Nisu
Nuosu
Phala
Phola
Phowa
Phukha
Phuma
Phupa
Phupha
Phuza
Samei
Sani
Thopho
Zokhuo
Other
Gokhy
Katso
Kucong
Lahu
Naruo
Namuyi
Naxi
Nusu
Samu
Sanie
Zauzou
Qiangic
Baima
Choyo
Ersu
Guiqiong
Horpa
Japhug
Khroskyabs
Laze
Lizu
Na
Muya
Namuyi
Naxi
Pumi
Northern Qiang
Southern Qiang
Shixing
Situ
Tshobdun
Zbu
Zhaba
Tibetic
Amdo
Baima
Basum
Central Tibetan
Choni
Dao
Dongwang
Drugchu
Groma
Gserpa
Khalong
Khams
Kyirong
Ladakhi
Tseku
Zhongu
Zitsadegu
Other
Bai
Caijia
Derung
Jingpho
Longjia
Nung
Tujia
Waxianghua
Other languagesAustroasiatic
Bit
Blang
Bolyu
Bugan
Bumang
Hu
Kuan
Mang
Man Met
Muak Sa-aak
Palaung
Riang
U
Va
Wa
Hmong-MienHmongic
A-Hmao
Bu-Nao
Gejia
Guiyang
Hm Nai
Hmong
Hmu
Huishui
Kiong Nai
Luobohe
Mashan
Pa-Hng
Pa Na
Pingtang
Qo Xiong
Raojia
She
Small Flowery
Xixiu
Younuo
Mienic
Biao Min
Dzao Min
Iu Mien
Kim Mun
Mongolic
Bonan
Buryat
Daur
Eastern Yugur
Kangjia
Khamnigan
Monguor
Oirat
Ordos
Santa
Torgut
Kra-DaiZhuang
Bouyei
Dai
Min
Ningming
Nong
Tai Dam
Tai Dón
Tai Hongjin
Tai Lü
Tai Nüa
Tai Ya
Yang
Yei
Other
Ai-Cham
Biao
Buyang
Cao Miao
Chadong
Cun
Gelao
Hlai
Jiamao
Kam
Lakkja
Mak
Maonan
Mulam
Naxi Yao
Ong Be
Paha
Qabiao
Sui
Then
Tungusic
Evenki
Manchu
Nanai
Oroqen
Xibe
Turkic
Äynu
Fuyu Kyrgyz
Ili Turki
Lop
Salar
Western Yugur
Other
Sarikoli (Indo-European)
Tsat (Austronesian)
Formosan languages (Austronesian)
Minority
Kazakh
Korean
Kyrgyz
Russian
Tatar
Tuvan
Uzbek
Vietnamese (Kinh)
Wakhi
Varieties ofChinese
Mandarin
Northeastern
Beijing
Ji-Lu
Jiao-Liao
Zhongyuan
Lan-Yin
Jin
Southwestern
Sichuanese
Southeastern
Gan
Hakka
Hui
Min
Southern
Hokkien
Teoswa
Hainanese
Eastern
Puxian
Central
Northern
Shaojiang
Wu
Northern
Auish
Xiang
New
Old
Yue
Cantonese
Ping
Creole/Mixed
E
Hezhou
Lingling
Macanese
Maojia
Qoqmončaq
Sanqiao
Tangwang
Wutun
Extinct
Ba–Shu
Jie
Khitan
Old Yue
Ruan-ruan
Saka
Tangut
Tocharian
Tuoba
Tuyuhun
Xianbei
Zhangzhung
Sign
Chinese Sign
Northern (Beijing) Sign
Southern (Shanghai) Sign
Hong Kong SignHK/MC
Tibetan SignXZ
GX = Guangxi
HK = Hong Kong
MC = Macau
NM = Inner Mongolia
XJ = Xinjiang
XZ = Tibet
vteTurkic languagesProto-language
Proto-Turkic
Common TurkicArghu
Khalaj
Karluk
Hezhou1
Ili Turki
Tor Tajik
Uyghur
Uzbek
Southern Uzbek
Extinct
Karakhanid
Khorezmian
Chagatai
KipchakPonto-Caspian
Crimean Tatar
Karachay-Balkar
Karaim
Krymchak
Kumyk
Urum
Extinct
Armeno-Kipchak
Mamluk-Kipchak
Cuman
Aralo-Caspian
Karakalpak
Kazakh
Nogai
Qoqmončaq1
Siberian Tatar
Extinct
Fergana Kipchak
Uralo-Caspian
Bashkir
Tatar
Extinct
Old Tatar
Kyrgyz-Kipchak
Kyrgyz
Southern Altai
Oghuz
Afshar
Azerbaijani
North Azerbaijani
South Azerbaijani
Chaharmahali Turkic
Gagauz
Khorasani Turkic
Kurbet1
Qashqai
Rumelian Turkish
Salar
Turkish
Turkmen
Extinct
Pecheneg2
Old Anatolian Turkish
Ottoman Turkish
Ajem-Turkic
Siberian
Äynu1
Chulym
Dolgan
Dukhan
Fuyu Kyrgyz
Khakas
Northern Altai
Shor
Soyot
Tofa
Tuvan
Yakut
Western Yugur2
Extinct
Orkhon Turkic
Old Turkic
Old Uyghur
Oghur
Chuvash
Extinct
Khazar2
Bulgar
1 Creole/Mixed language.
2 Classification disputed.
Authority control National
Germany
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Uzbek_language&oldid=1172584156"
Categories: Uzbek languageAgglutinative languagesKarluk languagesTurkic languages of AfghanistanTurkic languagesLanguages of PakistanLanguages of KazakhstanLanguages of KyrgyzstanLanguages of RussiaLanguages of TajikistanLanguages of TurkmenistanLanguages of UzbekistanLanguages of ChinaHidden categories: Articles containing Uzbek-language textPages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18CS1 Chinese-language sources (zh)CS1 Russian-language sources (ru)CS1 Uzbek-language sources (uz)All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from July 2018Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1 errors: generic nameArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from May 2020Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2023Articles containing Swedish-language textArticles with unsourced statements from April 2022Pages with interlinear glosses using more than three unnamed parametersArticles with unsourced statements from November 2020Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with GND identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiersArticles citing Nationalencyklopedin
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 01:01 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width