Technology – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
News
Category: Technology 
 
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI
Blog Post Equity Technology Wikipedia 
If there was a generative artificial intelligence system that could, on its own, write all the information contained in Wikipedia, would it be the same as Wikipedia today?
12 July 2023
By Selena Deckelmann 
Read more
 
Wikipedia Gets a Fresh New Look: First Desktop Update in a Decade Puts Usability at the Forefront
Community Deployment Technology Wikipedia 
The interface update, built in collaboration with Wikipedia volunteers worldwide, will make the site more welcoming, easier to use for everyone Update: On 4 May 2023, the desktop update was deployed to Spanish Wikipedia. The updated interface is now live on 95% of the 318 active language versions of Wikipedia for all desktop users. The….
18 January 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
New Wikipedia editor features make it easy for everyone to contribute
Interview Technology Wikipedia 
New features on Wikipedia are making it easy for everyone to edit Wikipedia, especially those contributing to the site for the first time. Every time you read a Wikipedia article, you are reading the work of a volunteer contributor.  Nearly 300,000 people from around the world edit Wikipedia articles each month — they start new….
6 December 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
The search for The Sound of All Human Knowledge begins: Global contest aims to identify the first ever sound logo for Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects
Community Sound Logo Technology 
This post is also available in: اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ, 中文, Bahasa Indonesia, Deutsch, Español, Français, हिंदी, Русский, Português, & 한국어. Update: Submissions to the Sound of All Human Knowledge contest are now closed.  Voting on the top 10 sounds will take place from 6 – 19 December on Wikimedia Commons, with the winner announced in 2023.  Between….
13 September 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation welcomes Selena Deckelmann as Chief Product and Technology Officer
Technology 
13 June 2022, San Francisco  — The Wikimedia Foundation today announced the appointment of Selena Deckelmann as Chief Product and Technology Officer. Selena is currently serving as Senior Vice President of Mozilla, where she was responsible for Firefox. She will officially join on August 1, 2022. Selena will lead the product and technology teams at….
13 June 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
The journey to make Wikipedia’s technology more equitable
Equity Technology 
I will start by saying that I am a process-turned-product person. That is, I’m a process-turned-product person with a passion for making systems just, equitable, and transparent. It’s these values that drew me to the Wikimedia Foundation in the first place. I wanted to be part of the nonprofit with a vision where everyone, everywhere has access….
9 May 2022
By Jazmin Tanner 
Read more
 
The Wikimedia Foundation stands with its communities around the world in defending free knowledge in the face of threats from the Russian government
Advocacy Community Legal Technology 
Цей пост також доступний українською мовою.Этот пост также доступен на русском языке. On 1 March 2022 the Wikimedia Foundation received a Russian government demand to remove content related to the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine posted by volunteer contributors to Russian Wikipedia. The Wikimedia Foundation and the movement we are part of have never backed down….
3 March 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Creating a Culture of Online Safety: Wikipedia’s Security team rises to new cyber challenges
Community Technology 
The Wikimedia Foundation’s Security team is an often invisible force that works tirelessly to protect the information and software of Wikipedia and our other projects. The internet has changed a lot since Wikipedia was created in 2001, and that change has brought with it myriad new security challenges. From our vast army of diverse volunteer editors….
24 November 2021
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation appoints new Vice President of Communications, Vice President of Product Design
Press Release Technology 
8 October 2021, San Francisco, California — The Wikimedia Foundation today announced the appointment of two new Vice Presidents: Anusha Alikhan as Vice President of Communications, and Margeigh Novotny as Vice President of Product Design. The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia and other free knowledge projects. With this news, both Anusha….
8 October 2021
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Supporting Wikipedia and the environment: The Wikimedia Foundation and Plant Your Change collaborate to plant 400,000 trees
Technology 
Update: Thanks to the generosity of Wikipedia donors, we were able to meet our goal of planting 400,000 trees! If you have not yet given to Wikipedia and are able to, we are grateful for your support. Visit donate.wikimedia.org to make a contribution. Timed with our 2020 end-of-year fundraising campaign on English Wikipedia, the Wikimedia….
7 December 2020
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
1
2
3
…
10
Older 
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.