Technology Resources for Students | Information Technology Services  
Skip to Main Content
UH Home
Directory
MyUH
Work at UH
Apply
  
          
          
          
        
Information Technology Services
            University of Hawaii System          
Menu Open Mobile Menu
Search 
Search this site
Site search
HELP DESK
ITS Services
INFORMATION SECURITY
ALERTS
ABOUT
About
VP for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer
Academic Development and Technology (ADT)
Academic Technologies
Client Service and Operations Center (CSOC)
Cyberinfrastructure
Enterprise Systems
Information Security
Technology Infrastructure
ASK US
CONTACT ITS
 
 
Home   Technology Resources for Students
Technology Resources for Students
UH Username Information
Your UH Username is your electronic key to gaining access to the university’s online services, such as email, Internet access, and registration for classes.
Get Your UH Username 
Change your password or secret questions/answers 
Basic Online Services for Students 
Campus WiFi
UH offers WiFi connectivity to students at each campus. Connect to your campus SSID and login using your UH Username and password. You can bypass this login by registering a device for a passthrough.
Connecting to the UH Wireless Networks
Wireless Authentication passthrough
Computer Hardware & Software
ITS provides desktop and laptop computer recommendations, as well as publishes a list of currently supported software and web browser recommendations.
ITS Computer Recommendations
ITS Supported Software
Purchasing Software
Web Browser Recommendations
Google@UH
Google@UH provides ad-free access to some of Google’s most popular services, including Gmail, Calendar, and Drive, through your UH Username.
Login to Google@UH
Setup Google@UH on iPhone/iPad/iPod
Setup Google@UH on Android Device
Setup Google@UH Gmail using IMAP
Google@UH Documentation
UH Alerts
The UH Alert emergency notification system alerts the university community in the event of a natural, health or civil emergency. Sign up to receive campus alerts by email or text message.
UH Alert Emergency Notification
UH Alert Troubleshooting
Protecting Your Information
Keep your information safe by learning more about cyber threats and following best practices.
IT Security @ UH
Spam/Phishing
Securing Your Computer
Password Guidelines
Academic Tools & Resources
Several tools and resources are available to enhance and guide you through your academic journey. These include MyUH, Laulima, the Distance Learning site, and STAR.
 
MyUH
MyUH is the online portal where students can access many resources and services.
GO
Laulima
Laulima is the tool for enhanced or total online teaching and learning ties to your course enrollment.
GO
Distance Learning
Distance Learning extends access to education through technology, learn more about programs and available courses.
GO
STAR
Use STAR to register for classes, check on degree progress, or to look at transcripts online.
GO
Information Technology Services
                                       Information Technology Center                                       2520 Correa Road                                       Honolulu, Hawaii 96822               
Contact Us
Telephone: (808) 956-8883
Email: help@hawaii.edu
2444 Dole StreetHonolulu, HI 96822
            
               An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution
               Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy
               copyright © 2018 University of Hawaiʻi
Calendar
Directory
Emergency Information
MyUH
Privacy Statement
Work at UH
   
                     
                     
                     
                  
Contact UH
               If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request.
Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
Go to Top