Haitian Creole - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Etymology
2Origins
Toggle Origins subsection
2.1Saint Dominican Creole French
2.2Difference between Haitian Creole and French
2.3Taino Influence
2.4Langay
3History
Toggle History subsection
3.1Early development
3.2Becoming an official language
3.3Literature development
3.3.1List of Haitian Creole-language writers
4Sociolinguistics
Toggle Sociolinguistics subsection
4.1Role in society
4.2Use in educational system
5Orthography
Toggle Orthography subsection
5.1Haitian orthography debate
5.2French-based orthography
6Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
6.1Pronouns
6.2Possessive pronouns
6.2.1Singular
6.2.2Plural
6.3Plural of nouns
6.4Possession
6.5Indefinite article
6.6Definite article
6.7Demonstratives
6.8Verbs
6.8.1Copula
6.8.2To have
6.8.3There is
6.8.4To know
6.8.5To do
6.8.6To be able to
6.8.7Tense markers
6.8.8Negation
7Lexicon
Toggle Lexicon subsection
7.1Sample
7.2Nèg and blan
8Examples
Toggle Examples subsection
8.1Salutations
9Proverbs and expressions
Toggle Proverbs and expressions subsection
9.1Proverbs
9.2Expressions
10Usage abroad
Toggle Usage abroad subsection
10.1United States and Canada
10.2Cuba
10.3Dominican Republic
10.4The Bahamas
11Software
12See also
13References
14Further reading
15External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Haitian Creole
81 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛअंगिकाالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaItalianoעבריתქართულიKiswahiliКомиKreyòl ayisyenLadinoLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLingua Franca NovaMagyarMalagasyमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیNederlands日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskپنجابیPapiamentuPatoisPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийСаха тылаᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤShqipSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt吴语粵語中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Haitian Creole language)
Language spoken in Haiti
Not to be confused with Haitian French, a variety of French spoken in Haiti.
Haitian Creolekreyòl ayisyenPronunciation[kɣejɔl ajisjɛ̃]Native toHaitiNative speakers12 million (2022)[1]Language familyFrench Creole[2]
Circum-Caribbean French[3]Haitian CreoleWriting systemLatin (Haitian Creole alphabet)Official statusOfficial language in HaitiRecognised minoritylanguage in Bahamas[4] Cuba[4] Dominican Republic Cayman Islands Jamaica Navassa Island FloridaRegulated byAkademi Kreyòl Ayisyen[5]Language codesISO 639-1htISO 639-2hatISO 639-3hatGlottologhait1244  HaitianLinguasphere51-AAC-cbIETFhtDistribution of Haitian Creole, areas in dark blue is where it is spoken by a majority, areas in light blue is where it is spoken by a minority.This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
A Haitian Creole speaker, recorded in the United States
Haitian Creole (/ˈheɪʃən ˈkriːoʊl/; Haitian Creole: kreyòl ayisyen, [kɣejɔl ajisjɛ̃];[6][7] French: créole haïtien, [kʁe.ɔl ai.sjɛ̃]), commonly referred to as simply Creole, or Kreyòl in the Creole language, is a French-based creole language spoken by 10–12 million people worldwide, and is one of the two official languages of Haiti (the other being French), where it is the native language of the vast majority of the population.[8][9] Northern, Central, and Southern dialects are the three main dialects of Haitian Creole. The Northern dialect is predominantly spoken in Cap-Haïtien, Central is spoken in Port-au-Prince, and Southern in the Cayes area.[10]
The language emerged from contact between French settlers and enslaved Africans during the Atlantic slave trade in the French colony of Saint-Domingue (now Haiti) in the 17th and 18th centuries.[11][12] Although its vocabulary largely derives from 18th-century French, its grammar is that of a West African Volta-Congo language branch, particularly the Fongbe and Igbo languages.[12] It also has influences from Spanish, English, Portuguese, Taino, and other West African languages.[13] It is not mutually intelligible with standard French, and has its own distinctive grammar. Haitians are the largest community in the world speaking a modern creole language, according to some sources.[14] However, this is disputable, as Nigerian Pidgin, an English-based Creole language, is attested by some sources to have a larger number of speakers than that of Haitian Creole and other French-based Creole languages, particularly if non-native speakers are included.
The usage of, and education in, Haitian Creole has been contentious since at least the 19th century. Some Haitians view French as a legacy of colonialism, while Creole has been maligned by francophones as a miseducated person's French.[15][16] Until the late 20th century, Haitian presidents spoke only standard French to their fellow citizens, and until the 21st century, all instruction at Haitian elementary schools was in modern standard French, a second language to most of their students.[8]
Haitian Creole is also spoken in regions that have received migration from Haiti, including other Caribbean islands, French Guiana, France, Canada (particularly Quebec) and the United States.[17] It is related to Antillean Creole, spoken in the Lesser Antilles, and to other French-based creole languages.
Etymology[edit]
The word creole comes from the Portuguese term crioulo, which means "a person raised in one's house", from the Latin creare, which means "to create, make, bring forth, produce, beget".[18][19] In the New World, the term originally referred to Europeans born and raised in overseas colonies[7] (as opposed to the European-born peninsulares). To be "as rich as a Creole" at one time was a popular saying boasted in Paris during the colonial years of Saint-Domingue, for being the most lucrative colony in the world.[20] The noun Creole eventually came to denote mixed-race Creole peoples and their mixed Creole languages.[7][19]
Origins[edit]
Main article: Creole language § Creole genesis
Haitian Creole contains elements from both the Romance group of Indo-European languages through its superstrate, French, as well as influences from African languages.[3][2][21] There are many theories on the formation of the Haitian Creole language.
One theory estimates that Haitian Creole developed between 1680 and 1740.[22][23] During the 16th and 17th centuries, French and Spanish colonizers produced tobacco, cotton, and sugar cane on the island.[23] Throughout this period, the population was made of roughly equal numbers of engagés (white workers), gens de couleur libres (free people of colour) and slaves.[24] The economy shifted into sugar production in 1690, just before the French colony of Saint-Domingue was officially formed in 1697.[11][22] The sugar crops needed a much larger labor force, which led to an increase in slave importation. In the 18th century an estimated 800,000 West-African individuals were enslaved and brought to Saint-Domingue.[23] As the slave population increased, interactions between French-speaking colonists and slaves decreased.[citation needed]
Many African slaves in French ownership were from Niger-Congo-speaking territory, and particularly speakers of Kwa languages, such as Gbe from West Africa and the Central Tano languages, and Bantu languages from Central Africa.[22] Singler suggests that the number of Bantu speakers decreased while the number of Kwa speakers increased, with Gbe being the most dominant group. The first fifty years of Saint‑Domingue's sugar boom coincided with emergent Gbe predominance in the French Caribbean. In the interval during which Singler hypothesizes the language evolved, the Gbe population was around 50% of the imported slave population.[22]
Classical French (français classique) and langues d'oïl (Norman, Poitevin and Saintongeais dialects, Gallo and Picard) were spoken during the 17th and 18th centuries in Saint‑Domingue, as well as in New France and French West Africa.[7][25]  Enslaved individuals lacked a mode of communication and as a result would try to learn French to communicate with one another. With the constant importation of slaves, the language was increasingly used and gradually became distinct from French. The language was also picked up by other members of the community and became used by the majority of those born in what is now Haiti.[7]
Saint Dominican Creole French[edit]
Further information: Creole French
A rich Creole planter of Saint-Domingue with his wife
In Saint-Domingue, people of all classes spoke Creole French. There were different registers of Creole French, a lower and higher register, depending on education & class. Creole French served as a Lingua franca throughout the West Indies.[26]
L'Entrepreneur. Mo sorti apprend, Mouché, qué vou té éprouvé domage dan traversée.
Le Capitaine. Ça vrai.
L'Entr. Vou crére qué navire à vou gagné bisoin réparations?
Le C. Ly té carené anvant nou parti, mai coup z'ouragan là mété moué dan cas fair ly bay encor nion radoub.
L'Entr. Ly fair d'iau en pile?
Le C. Primié jours aprés z'orage, nou té fair trente-six pouces par vingt-quatre heurs; mai dan beau tem mo fair yo dégagé ça mo pu, et tancher miyor possible, nou fair à présent necqué treize pouces.[27]
The Entrepreneur. I just learned, sir, that you garnered damages in your crossing.
The Captain. That's true.
The Entrepreneur. Do you believe that your ship needs repair?
The Captain. It careened before we left, but the blow from the hurricane put me in the position of getting it refitted again.
The Entrepreneur.  Is it taking on a lot of water?
The Captain. The first days after the storm, we took on thirty six inches in twenty four hours; but in clear weather I made them take as much of it out as I could, and attached it the best we possibly could; we're presently taking on not even thirteen inches.
The Battle of Saint-Domingue, 18 June–6 December 1803. English and Haitian allied forces attack French expeditionary forces at Cap-Français
Mad. Wilminton. C'est toi, Jean-Pierre? Hé! d'où viens-tu? Pourquoi cette arme?
Jean-Pierre. Vous pas gagné peur, madame, ça pas pour faire mal fusil-là, ça pitôt pour défendre vous. Moi allé dans ville cherché vous, et maître à moi, madame; mais bien content trouvé vous ici; vous savoir Caraïbe sauvé tribunal?
Mad. Wilminton. Je le sais.
Jean-Pierre. Oui, madame, et moi été avec eux chercher z'autres Caraïbes qui dans montagne, quand nous voir grand l'escadre français qui canoné fort à z'anglais, moi dire comme ça: Z'anglais pas laissé soldats beaucoup dans ville, si nous gagné beaucoup Caraïbes, nous capables pour sauver maître à moi, et blanc Français; mais t'en prie, Madame, vini dans ville. Moi velé taché voir maître pour bail li bon courage.
Mad. Wilminton. Ton maître est sauvé, je viens de le voir.
Jean-Pierre. Li sauvé? Oh! mon bon Dié! mon bon Dié! ta remercie.
Mad. Wilminton. J'entends du bruit: on marche vers ces lieux..... Ah! grand Dieu! c'est le constable avec des soldats.
Jean-Pierre. Nous pas en force pour attaquer eux, vini, madame, vini, moi connais gnon pitit sentier par où constable li pas capable voir nous rentrer dans ville. Vous, camarades, tournez vers montagne cherché z'autres Caraïbes, et vini ici pour delivré bon blanc. Vini, vini, moi conduire vous.
Mad. Wilminton. O ciel! protége-moi![28]
Madame Wilminton. Is it you, Jean-Pierre? Hey! where are you coming from? Why are you armed?
Jean-Pierre. Don't be afraid, madame, this weapon is not to cause harm, rather it's to defend you. I went into town to find you, and my master, madame; but I am very happy to find you here; did you know that a Carib saved the tribunal?
Madame Wilminton. I know.
Jean-Pierre. Yes, madame, and I came with them to find other Caribs who are in the mountain, when we saw the big French squadron bombard the English fort, I said this: "The English did not leave a lot of soldiers in town, if we gather a lot of Caribs, we can save my master, and the white Frenchmen;" but I beg you, Madame, come into town. I want to try to see master to give him good luck.
Madame Wilminton. Your master is safe, I just saw him.
Jean-Pierre. He's safe? Oh! my goodness! I thank you.
Madame Wilminton. I hear noise: they're coming this way..... Ah! good God! it's the constable with soldiers.
Jean-Pierre. We aren't enough to attack them, come, madame, come, I know a little path where the constable cannot see us reenter the town. You, camarades, return to the mountains and look for other Caribs, and come here to save the good white. Come, come, I will lead you.
Madame Wilminton. Oh heavens! protect me!
The flag of the Empire of Haiti (1804-1806)
Haïti, l'an 1er, 5e, jour de l'indépendance.
Chère maman moi,
Ambassadeurs à nous, partis pour chercher argent France, moi voulé écrire à vous par yo, pour dire vous combien nous contens. Français bons, oublié tout. Papas nous révoltés contre yo, papas nous tués papas yo, fils yo, gérens yo, papas nous brûlées habitations yo. Bagasse, eux veni trouver nous! et dis nous, vous donner trente millions de gourdes à nous et nous laisser Haïti vous? Vous veni acheter sucre, café, indigo à nous? mais vous payer moitié droit à nous. Vous penser chère maman moi, que nous accepté marché yo. Président à nous embrassé bon papa Makau. Yo bu santé roi de France, santé Boyer, santé Christophe, santé Haïti, santé indépendance. Puis yo dansé Balcindé et Bai chi ca colé avec Haïtienes. Moi pas pouvé dire vous combien tout ça noble et beau.
Venir voir fils à vous sur habitation, maman moi, li donné vous cassave, gouillave et pimentade. Li ben content si pouvez mener li blanche france pour épouse. Dis li, si ben heureuse. Nous plus tuer blancs, frères, amis, et camarades à nous.
Fils à vous embrasse vous, chère maman moi.
Congo, Haïtien libre et indépendant, au Trou-Salé.[29]
A Haitian planter
Haiti, 1st year, 5th day of independence.
My dear mother,
Our ambassadors left to get money from France, I want to write to you through them, to tell you how much we are happy. The French are good, they forgot everything. Our fathers revolted against them, our fathers killed their fathers, sons, managers, and our fathers burned down their plantations. Well, they came to find us, and told us, "you give thirty million gourdes to us and we'll leave Haiti to you? (And we replied) Will you come buy sugar, coffee, and indigo from us? You will pay only half directly to us." Do you believe my dear mother, that we accepted the deal? Our President hugged the good papa Makau (the French ambassador). They drank to the health of the King of France, to the health of Boyer, to the health of Christophe, to the health of Haiti, to independence. Then they danced Balcindé and Bai chi ca colé with Haitian women. I can't tell you how much all of this is so beautiful and noble.
Come see your son at his plantation, my mother, he will give you cassava, goyava, and pimentade. He will be happy if you can bring him a white Frenchwoman for a wife. Tell her, if you please. We won't kill anymore whites, brothers, friends, and camarades of ours.
Your son hugs you, my dear mother.
Congo, free and independent Haitian, at Trou-Salé.
Difference between Haitian Creole and French[edit]
Haitian Creole and French have similar pronunciations and share many lexical items.[30][31] However, many cognate terms actually have different meanings. For example, as Valdman mentions in Haitian Creole: Structure, Variation, Status, Origin, the word for "frequent" in French is fréquent; however, its cognate in Haitian Creole frekan means 'insolent, rude, and impertinent' and usually refers to people.[32] In addition, the grammars of Haitian Creole and French are very different. For example, in Haitian Creole, verbs are not conjugated as they are in French.[7] Additionally, Haitian Creole possesses different phonetics from standard French; however, it is similar in phonetic structure.[30] The phrase-structure is another similarity between Haitian Creole and French but differs slightly in that it contains details from its African substratum language.[30]
Both Haitian Creole and French have also experienced semantic change: words that had a single meaning in the 17th century have changed or have been replaced in both languages.[7] For example, "Ki jan ou rele?" ("What is your name?") corresponds to the French Comment vous appelez‑vous ? Although the average French speaker would not understand this phrase, every word in it is in fact of French origin: qui "who"; genre "manner"; vous "you", and héler "to call", but the verb héler has been replaced by appeler in modern French and reduced to a meaning of "to flag down".[7]
Lefebvre proposed the theory of relexification, arguing that the process of relexification (the replacement of the phonological representation of a substratum lexical item with the phonological representation of a superstratum lexical item, so that the Haitian creole lexical item looks like French, but works like the substratum language(s)) was central in the development of Haitian Creole.[33]
The Fon language, also known as the Fongbe language, is a modern Gbe language native to Benin, Nigeria and Togo in West Africa. This language has a grammatical structure similar to Haitian Creole, possibly making Creole a relexification of Fon with vocabulary from French. The two languages are often compared:[34]
French
Fon
Haitian Creole
English
la maison[35]
afe a
kay la
the house
Taino Influence[edit]
There are a number of Taino influences in Haitian Creole; many objects, fruits and animals name are either haitianize or have a similar pronunciation. Many towns, places or sites have their official name being a translation of the Taino word.
Taino
Haitian Creole
Meaning
Ayiti, Ayti
Ayiti, Haiti
The name of the country and the island
Gonaibo
Gonayiv, or Gonaïves
The biggest city and capital of Artibonite
Yaguana
Leyogàn, Léogane
A coastal town south of Port-au-Prince and capital of the cacicat of Xaragua
Guanabo
Gonav, Gonâve or Lagonav
The biggest satellite island of Hispaniola and last refuge of the Taino
Jatibonico
Latibonit or Artibonite
The longest river of Hispaniola and the biggest and most populous département of Haiti. In Taino the word mean "sacred water"
Canari
Kannari
A clay pot to keep water cool
Amani-y
Amani-y
The nickname of the town of Saint-Marc and famous beach
Mamey
Mamey, or Abriko
The nickname of the town of Abricots
Tiburon
Tibiwon
The same word means "Tiburon", a coastal town in the South Peninsula (also called Tiburon Peninsula) and a river near the town
Mabouya
Mabouya
Iguana
Mabi
Mabi
A bitter drink known in the West Indies as Mauby
Bajacu
Bayakou
The northern star, dawn, a Vodoun Loa associated with the star
Langay[edit]
Langay is a specialized vocabulary used in Haiti for religion, song, and dance purposes. It appears to not be an actual language, but rather an assortment of words, songs, and incantations – some secret – from various languages once used in Haitian Vodoun ceremonies.
History[edit]
Early development[edit]
Haitian Creole developed in the 17th and 18th centuries in the colony of Saint-Domingue, in a setting that mixed speakers of various Niger–Congo languages with French colonials.[11] In the early 1940s under President Élie Lescot, attempts were made to standardize the language. American linguistic expert Frank Laubach and Irish Methodist missionary H. Ormonde McConnell developed a standardized Haitian Creole orthography. Although some regarded the orthography highly, it was generally not well received.[36] Its orthography was standardized in 1979. That same year Haitian Creole was elevated in status by the Act of 18 September 1979.[37] The Institut Pédagogique National established an official orthography for Creole, and slight modifications were made over the next two decades. For example, the hyphen (-) is no longer used, nor is the apostrophe.[38]: 131 [15]: 185–192  The only accent mark retained is the grave accent in ⟨è⟩ and ⟨ò⟩.[15]: 433 
Becoming an official language[edit]
The Constitution of 1987 upgraded Haitian Creole to a national language alongside French.[39] It classified French as the langue d'instruction or "language of instruction", and Creole was classified as an outil d'enseignement or a "tool of education". The Constitution of 1987 names both Haitian Creole and French as the official languages, but recognizes Haitian Creole as the only language that all Haitians hold in common.[40]: 263 [41] French is spoken by only a small percentage of citizens.[11][17]
Literature development[edit]
Even without government recognition, by the end of the 19th century, there were already literary texts written in Haitian Creole such as Oswald Durand's Choucoune and Georges Sylvain's Cric? Crac!. Félix Morisseau-Leroy was another influential author of Haitian Creole work. Since the 1980s, many educators, writers, and activists have written literature in Haitian Creole. In 2001, Open Gate: An Anthology of Haitian Creole Poetry was published. It was the first time a collection of Haitian Creole poetry was published in both Haitian Creole and English.[42] On 28 October 2004, the Haitian daily Le Matin first published an entire edition in Haitian Creole in observance of the country's newly instated "Creole Day".[43]: 556  Haitian Creole writers often use different literary strategies throughout their works, such as code-switching, to increase the audience's knowledge on the language.[17] Literature in Haitian Creole is also used to educate the public on the dictatorial social and political forces in Haiti.[17]
List of Haitian Creole-language writers[edit]
Louis-Philippe Dalembert (b. 1962), poet and novelist
Frankétienne (b. 1936), poet, playwright, painter, musician, activist
Ady Jean-Gardy (b. 1967), international press activist
Josaphat-Robert Large (1942-2017), poet, novelist and art critic
Félix Morisseau-Leroy (1912-1998), poet and playwright
Elsie Suréna (b. 1956), writer and visual artist
Lyonel Trouillot (b. 1956), poet and novelist
Fred Edson Lafortune (b. 1982), poet
Sociolinguistics[edit]
Role in society[edit]
Although both French and Haitian Creole are official languages in Haiti, French is often considered the high language and Haitian Creole as the low language in the diglossic relationship of these two languages in society.[32] That is to say, for the minority of Haitian population that is bilingual, the use of these two languages largely depends on the social context: standard French is used more in public, especially in formal situations, whereas Haitian Creole is used more on a daily basis and is often heard in ordinary conversation.[44]
There is a large population in Haiti that speaks only Haitian Creole, whether under formal or informal conditions:French plays no role in the very formal situation of a Haitian peasant (more than 80% of the population make a living from agriculture) presiding at a family gathering after the death of a member, or at the worship of the family lwa or voodoo spirits, or contacting a Catholic priest for a church baptism, marriage, or solemn mass, or consulting a physician, nurse, or dentist, or going to a civil officer to declare a death or birth.— Yves Dejean[45]: 192 
Use in educational system[edit]
In most schools, French is still the preferred language for teaching. Generally speaking, Creole is more used in public schools,[46] as that is where most children of ordinary families who speak Creole attend school.
Historically, the education system has been French-dominant. Except the children of elites, many had to drop out of school because learning French was very challenging to them and they had a hard time to follow up.[citation needed] The Bernard Reform of 1978 tried to introduce Creole as the teaching language in the first four years of primary school; however, the reform overall was not very successful.[47] As a result, the use of Creole has grown but in a very limited way[clarification needed][citation needed]. After the earthquake in 2010, basic education became free and more accessible to the monolingual masses.[citation needed] The government is still[when?] trying[clarification needed] to expand the use of Creole and improve the school system.[48][failed verification][49]
Orthography[edit]
Haitian Creole has a phonemic orthography with highly regular spelling, except for proper nouns and foreign words. According to the official standardized orthography, Haitian Creole is composed of the following 32 symbols: ⟨a⟩, ⟨an⟩, ⟨b⟩, ⟨ch⟩, ⟨d⟩, ⟨e⟩, ⟨è⟩, ⟨en⟩, ⟨f⟩, ⟨g⟩, ⟨h⟩, ⟨i⟩, ⟨j⟩, ⟨k⟩, ⟨l⟩, ⟨m⟩, ⟨n⟩, ⟨ng⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨ò⟩, ⟨on⟩, ⟨ou⟩, ⟨oun⟩, ⟨p⟩, ⟨r⟩, ⟨s⟩, ⟨t⟩, ⟨ui⟩, ⟨v⟩, ⟨w⟩, ⟨y⟩, and ⟨z⟩.[6]: 100  The letters ⟨c⟩ and ⟨u⟩ are always associated with another letter (in the multigraphs ⟨ch⟩, ⟨ou⟩, ⟨oun⟩, and ⟨ui⟩). The Haitian Creole alphabet has no ⟨q⟩ or ⟨x⟩; when ⟨x⟩ is used in loanwords and proper nouns, it represents the sounds /ks/, /kz/, or /gz/.[15]: 433 
Consonants
Haitian orthography
IPA
Examples
English approximation
b
b
bagay
bow
ch
ʃ
cho
shoe
d
d
dous
do
f
f
fig
festival
g
ɡ
gòch
gain
h
h
hèn
hotel
j
ʒ
jedi
measure
k
k
kle
sky
l
l
liv
clean
m
m
machin
mother
n
n
nòt
note
ng
ŋ
bilding
feeling
p
p
pase
spy
r
ɣ
rezon
between go and loch
s
s
sis
six
t
t
tout
to
v
v
vyann
vent
z
z
zewo
zero
Non-native consonants
dj
dʒ
djaz
jazz
Semivowels
w
w
wi
we
y
j
pye
yes
Semivowel followed by vowel (digraph)
ui
ɥi
uit
roughly like sweet
Vowels
Haitian orthography
IPA
Examples
English approximation
a
(or à before an n)
a
abako
pàn
bra
e
e
ale
hey
è
ɛ
fèt
festival
i
i
lide
machine
o
o
zwazo
blow
ò
ɔ
deyò
sort
ou
u
nou
you
Nasal vowels
an(when not followed by a vowel)
ã
anpil
many
en(when not followed by a vowel)
ɛ̃
mwen
en [ɛ]
on(when not followed by a vowel)
õ
tonton
tone [o]
There are no silent letters in the Haitian Creole orthography.
All sounds are always spelled the same, except when a vowel carries a grave accent ⟨`⟩ before ⟨n⟩, which makes it an oral vowel instead of a nasal vowel:
⟨en⟩ for /ɛ̃/ and ⟨èn⟩ for /ɛn/;
⟨on⟩ for /ɔ̃/ and ⟨òn⟩ for /ɔn/; and
⟨an⟩ for /ã/ and ⟨àn⟩ for /an/.
When immediately followed by a vowel in a word, the digraphs denoting the nasal vowels (⟨an⟩, ⟨en⟩, ⟨on⟩, and sometimes ⟨oun⟩) are pronounced as an oral vowel followed by /n/.
There is some ambiguity in the pronunciation of the high vowels of the letters ⟨i⟩ and ⟨ou⟩ when followed in spelling by ⟨n⟩.[50] Common words such as moun ("person") and machin ("car") end with consonantal /n/, while very few words, mostly adopted from African languages, contain nasalized high vowels, as in houngan ("vodou priest").
Haitian orthography debate[edit]
The first technical orthography for Haitian Creole was developed in 1940 by H. Ormonde McConnell and Primrose McConnell, Irish Methodist missionaries. It was later revised with the help of Frank Laubach, resulting in the creation of what is known as the McConnell–Laubach orthography.[15]: 434 [51]
The McConnell–Laubach orthography received substantial criticism from members of the Haitian elite. Haitian scholar Charles Pressoir critiqued the McConnell–Laubach orthography for its lack of codified front rounded vowels, which are typically used only by francophone elites.[15]: 436  Another criticism was of the broad use of the letters ⟨k⟩, ⟨w⟩, and ⟨y⟩, which Pressoir argued looked "too American".[15]: 431–432  This criticism of the "American look" of the orthography was shared by many educated Haitians, who also criticized its association with Protestantism.[15]: 432  The last of Pressoir's criticisms was that "the use of the circumflex to mark nasalized vowels" treated nasal sounds differently from the way they are represented in French, which he feared would inhibit the learning of French.[15]: 431 
The creation of the orthography was essentially an articulation of the language ideologies of those involved and brought out political and social tensions between competing groups. A large portion of this tension lay in the ideology held by many that the French language is superior, which led to resentment of the language by some Haitians and an admiration for it from others.[15]: 435  This orthographical controversy boiled down to an attempt to unify a conception of Haitian national identity. Where ⟨k⟩ and ⟨w⟩ seemed too Anglo-Saxon and American imperialistic, ⟨c⟩ and ⟨ou⟩ were symbolic of French colonialism.[52]: 191 
French-based orthography[edit]
When Haiti was still a colony of France, edicts by the French government were often written in a French-lexicon creole and read aloud to the slave population.[53] The first written text of Haitian Creole was composed in the French-lexicon in a poem called Lisette quitté la plaine in 1757 by Duvivier de la Mahautière, a white Creole planter.[53][54]
Before Haitian Creole orthography was standardized in the late 20th century, spelling varied, but was based on subjecting spoken Haitian Creole to written French, a language whose spelling has a complicated relation to pronunciation. Unlike the phonetic orthography, French orthography of Haitian Creole is not standardized and varies according to the writer; some use exact French spelling, others adjust the spelling of certain words to represent pronunciation of the cognate in Haitian Creole, removing the silent letters. For example:Li ale travay nan maten (lit. "He goes to work in the morning") could be transcribed as:
Li ale travay nan maten,
Lui aller travail nans matin, or (disagreement, Lui is never used in Haitian creole)
Li aller travail nans matin.
Grammar[edit]
Haitian Creole grammar is highly analytical: for example, verbs are not inflected for tense or person, and there is no grammatical gender, which means that adjectives and articles are not inflected according to the noun. The primary word order is subject–verb–object as it is in French and English.
Many grammatical features, particularly the pluralization of nouns and indication of possession, are indicated by appending certain markers, like yo, to the main word. There has been a debate going on for some years as to whether these markers are affixes or clitics, and if punctuation such as the hyphen should be used to connect them to the word.[15]: 185–192 
Although the language's vocabulary has many words related to their French-language cognates, its sentence structure is like that of the West African Fon language.[34]
Haitian Creole
Fon
French
English
bekànbikemwenmybekàn mwenbike my
kekebikechemykeke chebike my
mamybécanebikema bécanemy bike
my bike
bekànbikemwenmyyoPLbekàn mwen yobike my PL
kekebikechemylePLkeke che lebike my PL
mesmybécanesbikesmes bécanesmy bikes
my bikes
Pronouns[edit]
There are six pronouns: first, second, and third person, each in both singular, and plural; all are of French etymological origin.[55] There is no difference between direct and indirect objects.
Haitian Creole
Fon[22]: 142 
French
English
Long form
Short form[38]: 131 [56]
mwen
m
nyɛ̀
je
I
j'
me
me
m'
moi
ou[a][b]
w
hwɛ̀
tu
you (singular), thou (archaic)
te
t'
toi
li[c]
l
é, éyɛ̀
il
he
elle
she, her
le
him, it
la
her, it
l'
him, her, it
lui
him, her, it
nou
n
mí
nous
we, us
vous[59]: 94 
you (plural)[d]
yo[e]
y
yé
ils
they
elles
les
them
leur
eux
^ sometimes the French pronoun on ("one", "[generic] you", "[singular] they") is translated to Haitian Creole as ou[57] and other times it is translated as yo[58]
^ sometimes ou is written as w and in the sample phrases below, w indicates ou.
^ in the northern part of Haiti, li is often shortened to i as in Guadeloupe, Martinique and the other Lesser Antilles.
^ in southern Haiti, the second person plural is zòt
^ sometimes the French pronoun on ("one", "[generic] you", "[singular] they") is translated to Haitian Creole as yo[58] and other times it is translated as ou[57]
Possessive pronouns[edit]
Singular[edit]
Haitian Creole
French
English
pa mwen an
le mien
mine (masculine)
la mienne
mine (feminine)
pa ou a
le tien
yours (masculine)
la tienne
yours (feminine)
pa li a
le sien
his/hers/its (masculine)
la sienne
his/hers/its (feminine)
pa nou an
le/la nôtre
ours
le/la vôtre
yours ("of you-PLURAL")
pa yo a
le/la leur
theirs
Plural[edit]
Haitian Creole
French
English
pa mwen yo
les miens
mine
les miennes
pa ou yo
les tiens
yours
les tiennes
pa li yo
les siens
his/hers/its
les siennes
pa nou yo
les nôtres
ours
les vôtres
yours ("of you-PLURAL")
pa yo
les leurs
theirs
Plural of nouns[edit]
Definite nouns are made plural when followed by the word yo; indefinite plural nouns are unmarked.
Haitian Creole
French
English
liv yo
les livres
the books
machin yo
les voitures
the cars
tifi yo met wòb
les filles mettent des robes
the girls put on dresses
Possession[edit]
Possession is indicated by placing the possessor or possessive pronoun after the item possessed. In the Capois dialect of northern Haiti, a or an is placed before the possessive pronoun.  Note, however, that this is not considered the standard Kreyòl most often heard in the media or used in writing.[60]
Possession does not indicate definiteness ("my friend" as opposed to "a friend of mine"), and possessive constructions are often followed by a definite article.
Haitian Creole
French
English
lajan li
son argent
his money
her money
fanmi mwen
ma famille
my family
fanmi m
fanmi an m (Capois dialect)
kay yo
leur maison
their house
leurs maisons
their houses
papa ou
ton père
your father
papa w
chat Pyè a
le chat de Pierre
Pierre's cat
chèz Marie a
la chaise de Marie
Marie's chair
zanmi papa Jean
l'ami du père de Jean
Jean's father's friend
papa vwazen zanmi nou
le père du voisin de notre ami
our friend's neighbor's father
Indefinite article[edit]
The language has two indefinite articles, on and yon (pronounced /õ/ and /jõ/) which correspond to French un and une. Yon is derived from the French il y a un ("there is a"). Both are used only with singular nouns, and are placed before the noun:
Haitian Creole
French
English
on kouto
un couteau
a knife
yon kouto
on kravat
une cravate
a necktie
yon kravat
Definite article[edit]
In Haitian Creole, the definite article has five forms,[61]: 28  and it is placed after the noun it modifies. The final syllable of the preceding word determines which form the definite article takes.[62]: 20  If the last sound is an oral consonant or a glide (spelled 'y' or 'w'), and if it is preceded by an oral vowel, the definite article is la:
Haitian Creole
French
English
Note
kravat la
la cravate
the tie
liv la
le livre
the book
kay la
la maison
the house
From French "la cahut(t)e" (English "hut, shack")
kaw la
le corbeau
the crow
If the last sound is an oral consonant and is preceded by a nasal vowel, the definite article is lan:
Haitian Creole
French
English
lanp lan
la lampe
the lamp
bank lan
la banque
the bank
If the last sound is an oral vowel and is preceded by an oral consonant, the definite article is a:
Haitian Creole
French
English
kouto a
le couteau
the knife
peyi a
le pays
the country
If the last sound is any oral vowel other than i or ou and is preceded by a nasal consonant, then the definite article is also a:
Haitian Creole
French
English
lame a
l'armée
the army
anana a
l'ananas
the pineapple
dine a
le dîner
the dinner
nò a
le nord
the north
If a word ends in mi, mou, ni, nou, or if it ends with any nasal vowel, then the definite article is an:
Haitian Creole
French
English
fanmi an
la famille
the family
jenou an
le genou
the knee
chen an
le chien
the dog
pon an
le pont
the bridge
If the last sound is a nasal consonant, the definite article is nan, but may also be lan:
Haitian Creole
French
English
machin nan
la voiture
the car
machin lan
telefonn nan
le téléphone
the telephone
The spelling "telefòn" is also attested.
telefonn lan
fanm nan
la femme
the woman
fanm lan
Demonstratives[edit]
There is a single word sa that corresponds to English "this" and to "that" (and to French ce, ceci, cela, and ça). As in English, it may be used as a demonstrative, except that it is placed after the noun that it qualifies. It is often followed by a or yo (in order to mark number): sa a ("this here" or "that there"):
Haitian Creole
French
English
jaden sa bèl
ce jardin est beau
this garden is beautiful
that garden is beautiful
As in English, it may also be used as a pronoun, replacing a noun:
Haitian Creole
French
English
sa se zanmi mwen
c'est mon ami
this is my friend
that is my friend
sa se chen frè mwen
c'est le chien de mon frère
this is my brother's dog
that is my brother's dog
Verbs[edit]
Many verbs in Haitian Creole are the same spoken words as the French infinitive, but there is no conjugation in the language; the verbs have one form only, and changes in tense, mood, and aspect are indicated by the use of markers:
Haitian Creole
French
English
li ale travay nan maten
il va au travail le matin
he goes to work in the morning
elle va au travail le matin
she goes to work in the morning
li dòmi aswè
il dort le soir
he sleeps in the evening
elle dort le soir
she sleeps in the evening
li li Bib la
il lit la Bible
he reads the Bible
elle lit la Bible
she reads the Bible
mwen fè manje
je fais à manger
I make food
I cook
nou toujou etidye
nous étudions toujours
we always study
Copula[edit]
Main article: Copula (linguistics) § Haitian Creole
The concept expressed in English by the verb "to be" is expressed in Haitian Creole by three words, se, ye, and sometimes e.
The verb se (pronounced similarly to the English word "say") is used to link a subject with a predicate nominative:
Haitian Creole
French
English
li se frè mwen
c'est mon frère
he is my brother
mwen se yon doktè
je suis médecin
I'm a doctor
je suis docteur
sa se yon pyebwa mango
c'est un manguier
this is a mango tree
that is a mango tree
nou se zanmi
nous sommes amis
we are friends
The subject sa or li can sometimes be omitted with se:[clarification needed]
Haitian Creole
French
English
se yon bon ide
c'est une bonne idée
that's a good idea
this is a good idea
se nouvo chemiz mwen
c'est ma nouvelle chemise
that's my new shirt
this is my new shirt
To express "I want to be", usually vin ("to become") is used instead of se.
Haitian Creole
French
English
li pral vin bofrè m
il va devenir mon beau-frère
he will be my brother-in-law
he will be my stepbrother
li pral vin bofrè mwen
mwen vle vin yon doktè
je veux devenir docteur
I want to become a doctor
sa pral vin yon pye mango
ça va devenir un manguier
that will become a mango tree
this will become a mango tree
nou pral vin zanmi
nous allons devenir amis
we will be friends
Ye also means "to be", but is placed exclusively at the end of a sentence, after the predicate and the subject (in that order):
Haitian Creole
French
English
mwen se Ayisyen
je suis haïtien
I am Haitian
Ayisyen mwen ye
Kòman ou ye?
lit. Comment + vous + êtes ("Comment êtes-vous?")
How are you?
Haitian Creole has stative verbs, which means that the verb "to be" is not covert when followed by an adjective. Therefore, malad means both "sick" and "to be sick":
Haitian Creole
French
English
mwen gen yon sè ki malad
j'ai une sœur malade
I have a sick sister
sè mwen malad
ma sœur est malade
my sister is sick
To have[edit]
The verb "to have" is genyen, often shortened to gen.
Haitian Creole
French
English
mwen gen lajan nan bank lan
j'ai de l'argent dans la banque
I have money in the bank
There is[edit]
The verb genyen (or gen) also means "there is" or "there are":
Haitian Creole
French
English
gen anpil Ayisyen nan Florid
il y a beaucoup d'Haïtiens en Floride
there are many Haitians in Florida
gen on moun la
il y a quelqu'un là
there is someone here
there is someone there
pa gen moun la
il n'y a personne là
there is nobody here
there is nobody there
To know[edit]
The Haitian Creole word for "to know" and "to know how" is konnen, which is often shortened to konn.
Haitian Creole
French
English
Èske ou konnen non li?
Est-ce que tu connais son nom?
Do you know his name?
Do you know her name?
mwen konnen kote li ye
je sais où il est
I know where he is
je sais où elle est
I know where she is
Mwen konn fè manje
Je sais comment faire à manger
I know how to cook(lit. "I know how to make food")
Èske ou konn ale Ayiti?
Est-ce que tu as été en Haïti?
Have you been to Haiti?(lit. "Do you know to go to Haiti?")
Li pa konn li franse
Il ne sait pas lire le français
He cannot read French(lit. "He doesn't know how to read French")
Elle ne sait pas lire le français
She cannot read French(lit. "She doesn't know how to read French")
To do[edit]
Fè means "do" or "make". It has a broad range of meanings, as it is one of the most common verbs used in idiomatic phrases.
Haitian Creole
French
English
Kòman ou fè pale kreyòl?
Comment as-tu appris à parler Créole?
How did you learn to speak Haitian Creole?
Marie konn fè mayi moulen.
Marie sait faire de la farine de maïs.
Marie knows how to make cornmeal.
To be able to[edit]
The verb kapab (or shortened to ka, kap or kab) means "to be able to (do something)". It refers to both "capability" and "availability":
Haitian Creole
French
English
mwen ka ale demen
je peux aller demain
I can go tomorrow
petèt mwen ka fè sa demen
je peux peut-être faire ça demain
maybe I can do that tomorrow
nou ka ale pita
nous pouvons aller plus tard
we can go later
Tense markers[edit]
There is no conjugation in Haitian Creole. In the present non-progressive tense, one just uses the basic verb form for stative verbs:
Haitian Creole
French
English
mwen pale kreyòl
je parle créole
I speak Creole
When the basic form of action verbs is used without any verb markers, it is generally understood as referring to the past:
Haitian Creole
French
English
mwen manje
j'ai mangé
I ate
ou manje
tu as mangé
you ate
li manje
il a mangé
he ate
elle a mangé
she ate
nou manje
nous avons mangé
we ate
yo manje
ils ont mangé
they ate
elles ont mangé
Manje means both "food" and "to eat", as manger does in Canadian French[citation needed]; m ap manje bon manje means "I am eating good food".
For other tenses, special "tense marker" words are placed before the verb. The basic ones are:
Tense marker
Tense
Annotations
te
simple past
from French été ("been")
t ap
past progressive
a combination of te and ap, "was doing"
ap
present progressive
with ap and a, the pronouns nearly always take the short form (m ap, l ap, n ap, y ap, etc.). From 18th-century French être après, progressive form
a
future
some limitations on use. From French avoir à ("to have to")
pral
near or definite future
translates to "going to". Contraction of French pour aller ("going to")
ta
conditional future
a combination of te and a ("will do")
Simple past or past perfect:
Haitian Creole
English
mwen te manje
I ate
I had eaten
ou te manje
you ate
you had eaten
li te manje
he ate
she ate
he had eaten
she had eaten
nou te manje
we ate
we had eaten
yo te manje
they ate
they had eaten
Past progressive:
Haitian Creole
English
mwen t ap manje
I was eating
ou t ap manje
you were eating
li t ap manje
he was eating
she was eating
nou t ap manje
we were eating
yo t ap manje
they were eating
Present progressive:
Haitian Creole
English
m ap manje
I am eating
w ap manje
you are eating
l ap manje
he is eating
she is eating
n ap manje
we are eating
y ap manje
they are eating
For the present progressive, it is customary, though not necessary, to add kounye a ("right now"):
Haitian Creole
English
m ap manje kounye a
I am eating right now
y ap manje kounye a
they are eating right now
Also, ap manje can mean "will eat" depending on the context of the sentence:
Haitian Creole
English
m ap manje apre m priye
I will eat after I pray
I am eating after I pray
mwen p ap di sa
I will not say that
I am not saying that
Near or definite future:
Haitian Creole
English
mwen pral manje
I am going to eat
ou pral manje
you are going to eat
li pral manje
he is going to eat
she is going to eat
nou pral manje
we are going to eat
yo pral manje
they are going to eat
Future:
Haitian Creole
English
n a wè pita
see you later(lit. "we will see later")
Other examples:
Haitian Creole
English
mwen te wè zanmi ou yè
I saw your friend yesterday
nou te pale lontan
we spoke for a long time
lè l te gen uit an...
when he was eight years old...
when she was eight years old...
m a travay
I will work
m pral travay
I'm going to work
n a li l demen
we'll read it tomorrow
nou pral li l demen
we are going to read it tomorrow
mwen t ap mache epi m te wè yon chen
I was walking and I saw a dog
Recent past markers include fèk and sòt (both mean "just" or "just now" and are often used together):
Haitian Creole
English
mwen fèk sòt antre kay la
I just entered the house
A verb mood marker is ta, corresponding to English "would" and equivalent to the French conditional tense:
Haitian Creole
English
yo ta renmen jwe
they would like to play
mwen ta vini si m te gen yon machin
I would come if I had a car
li ta bliye w si ou pa t la
he would forget you if you weren't here
she would forget you if you weren't here
Negation[edit]
The word pa comes before a verb and any tense markers to negate it:
Haitian Creole
English
Rose pa vle ale
Rose doesn't want to go
Rose pa t vle ale
Rose didn't want to go
Lexicon[edit]
See also: Wiktionary:Appendix:Haitian Creole Swadesh list
Most of the lexicon of Creole is derived from French, with significant changes in pronunciation and morphology; often the French definite article was retained as part of the noun. For example, the French definite article la in la lune ("the moon") was incorporated into the Creole noun for moon: lalin. However, the language also inherited many words of different origins, among them Wolof, Fon, Kongo, English, Spanish, Portuguese, Taino and Arabic.[citation needed]
Haitian Creole creates and borrows new words to describe new or old concepts and realities. Examples of this are fè bak which was borrowed from English and means "to move backwards" (the original word derived from French is rekile from reculer), and also from English, napkin, which is being used as well as tòchon, from the French torchon.[citation needed]
Sample[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Haitian Creole
IPA
Origin
English
ablado[63]
/ablado/
Spanish: hablador
"a talker"
anasi
/anasi/
Akan: ananse
spider
annanna
/ãnãna/
Taino: ananas; also used in French
pineapple
Ayiti
/ajiti/
Taino: Ahatti, lit. 'mountainous land'
Haiti ("mountainous land")
bagay
/baɡaj/
French: bagage, lit. 'baggage'
thing
bannann
/bãnãn/
French: banane, lit. 'banana'
banana/plantain
bekàn
/bekan/
French: bécane
bicycle
bokit[13]
/bokit/
bucket
bòkò
/bɔkɔ/
Fon: bokono
sorcerer
Bondye
/bõdje/
French: bon dieu, lit. 'good God'
God
chenèt
/ʃenɛt/
French: quénette (French Antilles)
gap between the two front teeth
chouk
/ʃuk/
Fula: chuk, lit. 'to pierce, to poke'
poke
dekabès
/dekabes/
Spanish: dos cabezas, lit. 'two heads'
two-headed win during dominos
dèyè
/dɛjɛ/
French: derrière
behind
diri
/diɣi/
French: du riz, lit. 'some rice'
rice
èkondisyone
/ɛkondisjone/
air conditioner
air conditioner
Etazini[64]
/etazini/
French: États-Unis
United States
fig
/fiɡ/
French: figue, lit. 'fig'
banana[65]
je
/ʒe/
French: les yeux, lit. 'the eyes'
eye
kannistè[13]
/kannistɛ/
canister
tin can
kay
/kaj/
French: la cahutte, lit. 'the hut'
house
kle
/kle/
French: clé, lit. 'key'
key, wrench
kle kola
/kle kola/
French: clé, lit. 'key'
bottle opener
cola
kònfleks
/kɔnfleks/
corn flakes
breakfast cereal
kawotchou
/kawotʃu/
French: caoutchouc, lit. 'rubber'
tire
lalin
/lalin/
French: la lune, lit. 'the moon'
moon
li
/li/
French: lui
he, she, him, her, it
makak
/makak/
French: macaque
monkey
manbo
/mãbo/
Kongo: mambu or Fon: nanbo
vodou priestess
marasa
/maɣasa/
Kongo: mapassa
twins
matant
/matãt/
French: ma tante, lit. 'my aunt'
aunt, aged woman
moun
/mun/
French: monde, lit. 'world'
people, person
mwen
/mwɛ̃/
French: moi, lit. 'me'
I, me, my, myself
nimewo
/nimewo/
French: numéro, lit. 'number'
number
oungan
/ũɡã/
Fon: houngan
vodou priest
piman
/pimã/
French: piment
a very hot pepper
pann
/pãn/
French: pendre, lit. 'to hang'
clothesline
podyab
/podjab/
French: pauvre diable or Spanish: pobre diablo
poor devil
pwa
/pwa/
French: pois, lit. 'pea'
bean
sapat[63]
/sapat/
Spanish: zapato; French: savatte
sandal
seyfing
/sejfiŋ/
surfing
sea-surfing
tonton
/tõtõ/
French: tonton
uncle, aged man
vwazen
/vwazɛ̃/
French: voisin
neighbor
zonbi
/zõbi/
Kongo: nzumbi
or English: zombie
soulless corpse, living dead, ghost, zombie
zwazo
/zwazo/
French: les oiseaux, lit. 'the birds'
bird
Nèg and blan[edit]
Although nèg and blan have similar words in French (nègre, a pejorative to refer to black people, and blanc, meaning white, or white person), the meanings they carry in French do not apply in Haitian Creole. Nèg means "a person" or « a man » (like "guy" or "dude" in American English).[66] The word blan generally means "foreigner" or "not from Haiti". Thus, a non-black Haitian man (usually biracial) could be called nèg, while a black person from the US could be referred to as blan.[66][67]
Etymologically, the word nèg is derived from the French nègre and is cognate with the Spanish negro ("black", both the color and the people).
There are many other Haitian Creole terms for specific tones of skin including grimo, bren, roz, and mawon. Some Haitians consider such labels as offensive because of their association with color discrimination and the Haitian class system, while others use the terms freely.
Examples[edit]
Salutations[edit]
Haitian Creole
English
A demen!
See you tomorrow!
A pi ta!
See you later!
Adye!
Good bye! (permanently)
Anchante!
Nice to meet you! (lit. "enchanted!")
Bon apre-midi!
Good afternoon!
Bòn chans!
Good luck!
Bòn nui!
Good night!
Bonjou!
Good day!
Good morning!
Bonswa!
Good evening
Dezole!
Sorry!
Eskize m!
Excuse me!
Kenbe la!
Hang in there! (informal)
Ki jan ou rele?
What's your name?
Ki non ou?
Ki non w?
Kòman ou rele?
Mwen rele 
My name is...
Non m se.
Ki jan ou ye?
How are you?
Ki laj ou?
How old are you? (lit. "What is your age?")
Ki laj ou genyen?
Kòman ou ye?
How are you?
Kon si, kon sa
So, so
Kontinye konsa!
Keep it up!
M ap boule
I'm managing (informal; lit. "I'm burning")(common response to sa kap fèt and sak pase)
M ap kenbe
I'm hanging on (informal)
M ap viv
I'm living
Mal
Bad
Men wi
Of course
Mèsi
Thank you
Mèsi anpil
Many thanks
Mwen byen
I'm well
Mwen dakò
I agree
Mwen gen an
I'm years old
Mwen la
I'm so-so (informal; lit. "I'm here")
N a wè pita!
See you later! (lit. "We will see later!")
Orevwa!
Good bye (temporarily)
Pa mal
Not bad
Pa pi mal
Not so bad
Padon!
Pardon!
Sorry!
Move!
Padone m!
Pardon me!
Forgive me!
Pòte w byen!
Take care! (lit. "Carry yourself well!")
Sa k ap fèt?
What's going on? (informal)
What's up? (informal)
Sa k pase?
What's happening? (informal)
What's up? (informal)
Tout al byen
All is well (lit. "All goes well")
Tout bagay anfòm
Everything is fine (lit. "Everything is in form")
Tout pa bon
All is not well (lit. "All is not good")
Proverbs and expressions[edit]
See also: Wikiquote:Haitian proverbs
Proverbs play a central role in traditional Haitian culture and Haitian Creole speakers make frequent use of them as well as of other metaphors.[68]
Proverbs[edit]
Haitian Creole
English
Men anpil, chay pa lou
Strength through unity[69] (lit. "With many hands, the burden is not heavy";[70] Haitian Creole equivalent of the French on the coat of arms of Haiti, which reads l'union fait la force)
Apre bal, tanbou lou
There are consequences to your actions (lit. "After the dance, the drum is heavy")[71]
Sak vid pa kanpe
No work gets done on an empty stomach (lit. "An empty bag does not stand up")[72]: 60 
Pitit tig se tig
Like father like son (lit. "The son of a tiger is a tiger")
Ak pasyans w ap wè tete pis
Anything is possible (lit. "With patience you will see the breast of the ant")
Bay kou bliye, pote mak sonje
The giver of the blow forgets, the carrier of the scar remembers
Mache chèche pa janm dòmi san soupe
You will get what you deserve
Bèl dan pa di zanmi
Not all smiles are friendly
Bèl antèman pa di paradi
A beautiful funeral does not guarantee heaven
Bèl fanm pa di bon mennaj
A beautiful wife does not guarantee a happy marriage
Dan konn mòde lang
People who work together sometimes hurt each other (lit. "Teeth are known to bite the tongue")
Sa k rive koukouloulou a ka rive kakalanga tou
What happens to the dumb guy can happen to the smart one too (lit. "What happens to the turkey can happen to the rooster too")[72]: 75 
Chak jou pa Dimanch
Your luck will not last forever (lit. "Not every day is Sunday")
Fanm pou yon tan, manman pou tout tan
A woman is for a time, a mother is for all time[72]: 93 
Nèg di san fè, Bondye fè san di
Man talks without doing, God does without talking[72]: 31 
Sa Bondye sere pou ou, lavalas pa ka pote l ale
What God has saved for you, nobody can take it away
Nèg rich se milat, milat pòv se nèg
A rich negro is a mulatto, a poor mulatto is a negro
Pale franse pa di lespri
Speaking French does not mean you are smart[72]: 114 
Wòch nan dlo pa konnen doulè wòch nan solèy
The rock in the water does not know the pain of the rock in the sun[73]
Ravèt pa janm gen rezon devan poul
Justice will always be on the side of the stronger[74] (lit. "A cockroach in front of a chicken is never correct")
Si ou bwè dlo nan vè, respèkte vè a
If you drink water from a glass, respect the glass
Si travay te bon bagay, moun rich ta pran l lontan
If work were a good thing, the rich would have grabbed it a long time ago
Sèl pa vante tèt li di li sale
Let others praise you (lit. "Salt doesn't brag that it's salty," said to those who praise themselves)
Bouch granmoun santi, sak ladan l se rezon
Wisdom comes from the mouth of old people (lit. "The mouth of the old stinks but what's inside is wisdom")
Tout moun se moun
Everyone matters (lit. "Everybody is a person")[75]
Expressions[edit]
Haitian Creole
English
Se lave men, siye l atè
It was useless work (lit. "Wash your hands and wipe them on the floor")
M ap di ou sa kasayòl te di bèf la
Mind your own business
Li pale franse
He cannot be trusted, he is full of himself (lit. "He speaks French")[76]
Kreyòl pale, kreyòl konprann
Speak straightforwardly and honestly (lit. "Creole talks, Creole understands")[72]: 29 
Bouche nen ou pou bwè dlo santi
You have to accept a bad situation (lit. "Pinch your nose to drink smelly water")[72]: 55 
Mache sou pinga ou, pou ou pa pile: "Si m te konnen!"
"Be on your guard, so you don't have to say: 'If only I'd known!'"[72]: 159 
Tann jis nou tounen pwa tann
To wait forever (lit. "left hanging until we became string beans" which is a word play on tann, which means both "to hang" and "to wait")
San pran souf
Without taking a breath; continuously
W ap konn jòj
Warning or threat of punishment or reprimand (lit. "You will know George")
Dis ti piti tankou ou
Dismissing or defying a threat or show of force (lit. "Ten little ones like you couldn't.")
Lè poul va fè dan
Never (lit. "When hens grow teeth")[77]
Piti piti zwazo fè nich li
You will learn (lit. "Little by little the bird makes its nest")[72]: 110 
Usage abroad[edit]
United States and Canada[edit]
Haitian Creole display at a car rental counter in the Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport (2014).
See also: Haitian Americans and Haitian Canadians
A CDC-sponsored poster about the COVID-19 prevention in Haitian Creole.
Haitian Creole is used widely among Haitians who have relocated to other countries, particularly the United States and Canada. Some of the larger Creole-speaking populations are found in Montreal, Quebec (where French is the official language), New York City, Boston, and Central and South Florida (Miami, Fort Lauderdale, and Palm Beach). To reach out to the large Haitian population, government agencies have produced various public service announcements, school-parent communications, and other materials in Haitian Creole. For instance, Miami-Dade County in Florida sends out paper communications in Haitian Creole in addition to English and Spanish. In the Boston area, the Boston subway system and area hospitals and medical offices post announcements in Haitian Creole as well as English.[78] North America's only Creole-language television network is HBN, based in Miami.  These areas also each have more than half a dozen Creole-language AM radio stations.[79]
Haitian Creole and Haitian culture are taught in many colleges in the United States and the Bahamas. York College at the City University of New York features a minor in Haitian Creole.[80] Indiana University has a Creole Institute[81] founded by Albert Valdman where Haitian Creole, among other facets of Haiti, are studied and researched. The University of Kansas, Lawrence has an Institute of Haitian studies, founded by Bryant Freeman. The University of Massachusetts Boston, Florida International University, and University of Florida offer seminars and courses annually at their Haitian Creole Summer Institute. Brown University, University of Miami, Tulane University, and Duke University[82] also offer Haitian Creole classes, and Columbia University and NYU have jointly offered a course since 2015.[83][84] The University of Chicago began offering Creole courses in 2010.[85]
As of 2015[update], the New York City Department of Education counted 2,838 Haitian Creole-speaking English-language learners (ELLs) in the city's K–12 schools, making it the seventh most common home language of ELLs citywide and the fifth most common home language of Brooklyn ELLs.[86]: 19–20  Because of the large population of Haitian Creole-speaking students within NYC schools, various organizations have been established to respond to the needs of these students. For example, Flanbwayan and Gran Chimen Sant Kiltirèl, both located in Brooklyn, New York, aim to promote education and Haitian culture through advocacy, literacy projects, and cultural/artistic endeavors.[87]
Cuba[edit]
See also: Haitian Cubans and Languages of Cuba
Haitian Creole is the second most spoken language in Cuba after Spanish,[88][89] where over 300,000 Haitian immigrants speak it. It is recognized as a minority language in Cuba and a considerable number of Cubans speak it fluently. Most of these speakers have never been to Haiti and do not possess Haitian ancestry, but merely learned it in their communities. In addition, there is a Haitian Creole radio station operating in Havana.[89]
Dominican Republic[edit]
See also: Haitians in the Dominican Republic and Languages of the Dominican Republic
As of 2012[update], the language was also spoken by over 450,000 Haitians who reside in the neighboring Dominican Republic,[90] although the locals do not speak it. However, some estimates suggest that there are over a million speakers due to a huge population of undocumented immigrants from Haiti.[91]
The Bahamas[edit]
As of 2009, up to 80,000 Haitians were estimated residing in the Bahamas,[92] where about 20,000 speak Haitian Creole. It is the third most‑spoken language after English and Bahamian Creole.[93]
Software[edit]
After the 2010 Haiti earthquake, international aid workers desperately needed translation tools for communicating in Haitian Creole. Furthermore, international organizations had little idea whom to contact as translators. As an emergency measure, Carnegie Mellon University released data for its own research into the public domain.[94] Microsoft Research and Google Translate implemented alpha version machine translators based on the Carnegie Mellon data.
Several smartphone apps have been released, including learning with flashcards by Byki and two medical dictionaries, one by Educa Vision and a second by Ultralingua, the latter of which includes an audio phrase book and a section on cultural anthropology.
See also[edit]
 Haitian Creole  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Haiti portalLanguages portal
Afro-Brazilians
Akademi Kreyòl Ayisyen
Antillean Creole French
Creole language
Louisiana Creole French
Michel DeGraff
Radio Haiti-Inter
References[edit]
^ Mikael Parkvall, "Världens 100 största språk 2007" (The World's 100 Largest Languages in 2007), in Nationalencyklopedin
^ a b Gurevich, Naomi (2004). "Appendix A: Result Summary". Lenition and Contrast: The Functional Consequences of Certain Phonetically Conditioned Sound Changes. New York: Routledge. pp. 112, 301–304. ISBN 978-1-135-87648-7. LCCN 2004051429. OCLC 919306666. OL 5731391W. Name: ... Haitian Creole ...; Phylum: ... Indo‑European...
^ a b Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin, eds. (2017). "Haitian". Glottolog 3.0. Jena, Germany: Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History.
^ a b Dufour, Fritz, ed. (2017). "Exploring the Possibilities for the Emergence of a Single and Global Native Language". Language Arts & Disciplines. p. 4. Retrieved 11 October 2020.
^ "Cérémonie de lancement d'un partenariat entre le Ministère de l'Education Nationale et de la Formation Professionnelle et l'Académie Créole" (in French and Haitian Creole). Port‑au‑Prince, Haiti: Government of the Republic of Haiti. 8 July 2015. Archived from the original on 28 July 2015. Retrieved 5 December 2015.
^ a b Faraclas, Nicholas; Spears, Arthur K.; Barrows, Elizabeth; Piñeiro, Mayra Cortes (2012) [1st pub. 2010]. "II. Structure and Use § 4. Orthography". In Spears, Arthur K.; Joseph, Carole M. Berotte (eds.). The Haitian Creole Language: History, Structure, Use, and Education. Lanham, Maryland: Lexington Books. p. 100. ISBN 978-0-7391-7221-6. LCCN 2010015856. OCLC 838418590.
^ a b c d e f g h Valdman, Albert (2002). "Creole: The National Language of Haiti". Footsteps. 2 (4): 36–39. Archived from the original on 13 July 2015.
^ a b DeGraff, Michel; Ruggles, Molly (1 August 2014). "A Creole Solution for Haiti's Woes". The New York Times. p. A17. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on 6 September 2015. Under the 1987 Constitution, adopted after the overthrow of Jean‑Claude Duvalier's dictatorship, [Haitian] Creole and French have been the two official languages, but most of the population speaks only Creole fluently.
^ Léonidas, Jean-Robert (1995). Prétendus Créolismes: Le Couteau dans l'Igname [So‑Called Creolisms: The Knife in the Yam] (in French). Montréal: Editions du CIDIHCA. ISBN 978-2-920862-97-5. LCCN 95207252. OCLC 34851284. OL 3160860W.
^ Schieffelin, Bambi B.; Doucet, Rachelle Charlier (1994). "The "Real" Haitian Creole: Ideology, Metalinguistics, and Orthographic Choice". American Ethnologist. 21 (1): 176–200. doi:10.1525/ae.1994.21.1.02a00090. ISSN 0094-0496. JSTOR 646527.
^ a b c d DeGraff, Michel (2007). "Kreyòl Ayisyen, or Haitian Creole ('Creole French')" (PDF). In Holm, John; Patrick, Peter L. (eds.). Comparative Creole Syntax: Parallel Outlines of 18 Creole Grammars. London: Battlebridge. pp. 101–102. ISBN 978-1-903292-01-3. OCLC 192098910. OL 12266293M. Archived (PDF) from the original on 31 July 2015.
^ a b Seguin, Luisa (2020). Transparency and Language Contact: The Case of Haitian Creole, French, and Fongbe. Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages. pp. 218–252.
^ a b c Bonenfant, Jacques L. (2011). "History of Haitian-Creole: From Pidgin to Lingua Franca and English Influence on the Language" (PDF). Review of Higher Education and Self-Learning. 3 (11). Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 March 2015.
^ Nadeau, Jean-Benoît; Barlow, Julie (2008) [1st pub. 2006]. "Far from the Sun". The Story of French. New York: St. Martin's Press. p. 97. ISBN 978-0-312-34184-8. LCCN 2006049348. OCLC 219563658. There are more speakers of French-based Creoles than all other Creoles combined (including English), thanks mostly to Haiti, the biggest Creole-speaking nation in the world...
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Schieffelin, Bambi B.; Doucet, Rachelle Charlier (September 1992). "The 'Real' Haitian Creole: Ideology, Metalinguistics, and Orthographic Choice" (PDF). Journal of Pragmatics. 2 (3): 427–443. doi:10.1525/ae.1994.21.1.02a00090. ISSN 0378-2166. Archived (PDF) from the original on 28 July 2015.
^ DeGraff, Michel (2003). "Against Creole exceptionalism" (PDF). Language. 79 (2): 391–410. doi:10.1353/lan.2003.0114. S2CID 47857823. Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 July 2015.
^ a b c d Spears, Arthur K.; Joseph, Carole M. Berotte (22 June 2010). The Haitian Creole Language: History, Structure, Use, and Education. Lexington Books. p. 2. ISBN 978-1-4616-6265-5.
^ Harper, Douglas (ed.). "Creole". Online Etymology Dictionary. Archived from the original on 21 January 2016.
^ a b Archer, Marie-Thérèse, ed. (1998). "Créolologie haïtienne: latinité du créole d'Haïti : créole étudié dans son contexte ethnique, historique, linguistique, sociologique et pédagogique. Volume 1 of Livre du maître". Impr. Le Nata. p. 7. Retrieved 11 October 2020.
^ Dinga, John S., ed. (2011). America's Irresistible Attraction: Beyond the Green Card. Trafford Publishing. p. 489. ISBN 9781426961250. Retrieved 11 October 2020.
^ John, Vijay; Slocum, Jonathan (2014). "Indo‑European Languages: Italic Family". Linguistics Research Center. University of Texas at Austin. Archived from the original on 6 October 2015.
^ a b c d e Lefebvre, Claire (2006). Creole Genesis and the Acquisition of Grammar: The Case of Haitian Creole. Cambridge University Press. pp. 53–57, 190. ISBN 978-0-521-02538-6. LCCN 2006280760. OCLC 71007434. OL 7714204M.
^ a b c Velupillai, Viveka (2015). Pidgins, Creoles and mixed languages: an introduction. Creole language library. Amsterdam; Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company. p. 198. ISBN 9789027252715.
^ Singler, John Victor (1996). "Theories of Creole Genesis, Sociohistorical Considerations, and the Evaluation of Evidence: The Case of Haitian Creole and the Relexification Hypothesis". Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages. 11 (2): 185–230. doi:10.1075/jpcl.11.2.02sin.
^ Lefebvre, Claire (2004). "The linguistic situation in Haiti at the time Haitian Creole was formed". Issues in the Study of Pidgin and Creole Languages. Studies in language companion series. Vol. 70. John Benjamins Publishing Company. pp. 240–241. doi:10.1075/slcs.70. ISBN 978-1-58811-516-4. ISSN 0165-7763. LCCN 2004041134. OCLC 54365215.
^ Carl A. Brasseaux, Glenn R. Conrad (1992). The Road to Louisiana: The Saint-Domingue Refugees, 1792-1809. New Orleans: Center for Louisiana Studies, University of Southwestern Louisiana. pp. 4, 5, 6, 8, 11, 15, 21, 22, 33, 38, 108, 109, 110, 143, 173, 174, 235, 241, 242, 243, 252, 253, 254, 268.
^ S.J. Ducoeurjoly (1803). Manuel des habitans de Saint-Domingue. pp. 363, 364.
^ J.Fr Hurtaud-Delorme (1806). Le sauvage muet, ou les deux Caraïbes. pp. 52, 53.
^ L. Bouchard (8 October 1825). La Nouveauté No. 38. pp. 3, 4.
^ a b c Hall, Robert Anderson (1953). Haitian Creole: Grammar, Texts, Vocabulary. American Anthropological Association.
^ Lagarde, François (2007). "5. Langues § 1. Locaters § 1.2. Immigrés". Français aux Etats-Unis (1990–2005): migration, langue, culture et économie. Transversales (in French). Vol. 20. Bern, Switzerland: Peter Lang International Academic Publishers. p. 137. ISBN 978-3-03911-293-7. LCCN 2008271325. OCLC 122935474. le français et le créole haïtien ... sont des langues différentes « non-mutuellement intelligibles »
^ a b Valdman, Albert (2015). Haitian Creole : structure, variation, status, origin. Equinox: Equinox. p. 14. ISBN 978-1-84553-387-8.
^ Lefebvre, Claire (1997). "Relexification in Creole Genesis: The Case of Demonstrative Terms in Haitian Creole". Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages. 12 (2): 181–201. doi:10.1075/jpcl.12.2.02lef. ISSN 0920-9034.
^ a b Lefebvre, Claire (1986). "Relexification in Creole Genesis Revisited: the Case of Haitian Creole". In Muysken, Pieter; Smith, Norval (eds.). Substrata Versus Universals in Creole Genesis. Creole Language Library. Vol. 1. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company. pp. 279–301. doi:10.1075/cll.1.13lef. ISBN 978-90-272-5221-0. ISSN 0920-9026. LCCN 86018856. OCLC 14002046. OL 5268669W.
^ The modern French construction la maison‑là (roughly "that there house") instead of the standard la maison ("the house") is only superficially and coincidentally similar to the Haitian Creole construction.[improper synthesis?]
^ Fontaine, Pierre-Michel (1981). "Language, Society, and Development: Dialectic of French and Creole Use in Haiti". Latin American Perspectives. 8 (1): 28–46. doi:10.1177/0094582X8100800103. ISSN 0094-582X. JSTOR 2633128. OCLC 5724884282. S2CID 145302665.
^ "Haïti: Loi du 18 septembre 1979" [Haiti: Act of 18 September 1979]. Chaire pour le développement de la recherche sur la culture d'expression française en Amérique du Nord (in French). Québec City: Université Laval. Archived from the original on 27 July 2015. L'usage du créole, en tant que langue commune parlée par les 90 % de la population haïtienne, est permis dans les écoles comme instrument et objet d'enseignement.
^ a b Védrine, Emmanuel W. (2007) [1st pub. 1994]. "Òtograf ofisyèl la" (PDF). Yon koudèy sou pwoblèm lekòl Ayiti [Official spelling] (PDF) (in Haitian Creole) (2nd ed.). Boston. p. 131. ISBN 978-0-938534-28-0. LCCN 94-65943. OCLC 37611103. Archived (PDF) from the original on 7 April 2015. Nou suiv sa yo rele 'òtograf ofisyèl' la lan tout sa li mande. Tout liv oubyen dokiman Éditions Deschamps sòti respekte òtograf sa a alalèt. Yon sèl ti eksepsyon petèt, se kesyon apostwòf nou pa anplwaye aprè de gwoup kòm 'm ap' (m'ap); 'sa k ap fèt?' (sa k'ap fèt?){{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ Valdman, Albert (1989). "The Use of Creole as a School Medium and Decreolization in Haiti". In Zuanelli Sonino, Elisabetta (ed.). Literacy in School and Society: Multidisciplinary Perspectives. Topics in Language and Linguistics. Springer Science & Business Media. p. 59. doi:10.1007/978-1-4899-0909-1. ISBN 978-1-4899-0909-1. LCCN 89-35803. OCLC 646534330. OL 9382950W. In 1979, by a presidential decree, Haitian Creole was officially recognized as classroom medium and as school subject at the primary level. In the 1983 Constitution it was upgraded to the level of national language with French.
^ Hebblethwaite, Benjamin (2012). "French and underdevelopment, Haitian Creole and development: Educational language policy problems and solutions in Haiti" (PDF). Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages. 27 (2): 255–302. doi:10.1075/jpcl.27.2.03heb. ISSN 0920-9034. Archived (PDF) from the original on 27 July 2015. Article 5 of the ... Constitution of 1987 ... recognizes Creole as the sole language that unites all Haitians.
^ "La Constitution de 1987, Article 5" [Constitution of 1987, Article 5] (in French). 1987. Archived from the original on 12 September 2011. Retrieved 31 July 2015. Tous les Haïtiens sont unis par une Langue commune : le Créole.
^ Laraque, Paul (April 2001). Open Gate: An Anthology of Haitian Creole Poetry. ISBN 978-1-880684-75-7.
^ DeGraff, Michel (2005). "Linguists' most dangerous myth: The fallacy of Creole Exceptionalism" (PDF). Language in Society. 34 (4): 533–591. doi:10.1017/S0047404505050207. ISSN 0047-4045. S2CID 145599178. Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 April 2015.
^ Férére, Gérard A. (March 1977). "Diglossia in Haiti: A Comparison with Paraguayan Bilingualism". Caribbean Quarterly. 23 (1): 50–69. doi:10.1080/00086495.1977.11671912. JSTOR 40653330.
^ Dejean, Yves (1983). "Diglossia revisited: French and Creole in Haiti". Word. 34 (3): 189–213. doi:10.1080/00437956.1983.11435744. ISSN 0043-7956. OCLC 5845895993.
^ Scott, Nicole A. (2013). "Creole Languages". Encyclopedia of Race and Racism. Retrieved 23 October 2019.
^ World Education Encyclopedia: A Survey of Educational Systems Worldwide. Detroit, Michigan: Gale Group. 2002. ISBN 978-0-02-865594-9.
^ Daniel, Trenton (6 February 2013). "Haitian schools expand use of Creole language". US News. Archived from the original on 30 July 2017.
^ Hebblethwaite, Benjamin (2012). "French and underdevelopment, Haitian Creole and development" (PDF). Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages. 27:2 (2): 255–302. doi:10.1075/jpcl.27.2.03heb. ISSN 0920-9034.
^ Cadely, Jean‑Robert (2002). "Le statut des voyelles nasales en Créole haïtien" [The Status of Nasal Vowels in Haitian Creole]. Lingua (in French). 112 (6): 437–438. doi:10.1016/S0024-3841(01)00055-9. ISSN 0024-3841. L'absence d'opposition distinctive dans la distribution des voyelles hautes ainsi que le facteur combinatoire illustré ci-dessus amènent certains auteurs ... à considérer les voyelles nasales [ĩ] et [ũ] comme des variantes contextuelles de leurs correspondantes orales. Toutefois, l'occurrence dans le vocabulaire des Haïtiens de nombre de termes qui se rattachent pour la plupart à la religion vaudou contribue à affaiblir cette analyse. Par exemple, dans la liste des mots que nous présentons ... il est facile de constater que les voyelles nasales hautes n'apparaissent pas dans l'environnement de consonnes nasales:[ũɡã] 'prêtre vaudou'[ũsi] 'assistante du prêtre/ de la prêtresse'[ũfɔ] 'sanctuaire du temple vaudou'[hũ] 'tambour'[oɡũ] 'divinité vaudou'[ũɡɛvɛ] 'collier au cou du prêtre vaudou'[bũda] 'derrière'[pĩɡa] 'prenez garde'[kaʃĩbo] 'pipe de terre'[jũ/ũ nɛɡ] 'un individu'
^ Andrews, Helen (2009). "Frances Elaine ('Primrose') McConnell in Beckett, George Francis". In McGuire, James; Quinn, James (eds.). Dictionary of Irish Biography. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
^ Romaine, Suzanne (2002). "Signs of Identity, Signs of Discord: Glottal Goofs and the Green Grocer's Glottal in Debates on Hawaiian Orthography". Journal of Linguistic Anthropology. 12 (2): 189–224. doi:10.1525/jlin.2002.12.2.189. ISSN 1055-1360. JSTOR 43104013. For some opponents of the official orthography, ⟨k⟩ and ⟨w⟩ are tainted with the perceived stigma of being Anglo-Saxon and smack of American imperialism. The French symbols ⟨c⟩ and ⟨ou⟩, however, are allied with colonialism.
^ a b Ayoun, Dalila, ed. (2008). Studies in French Applied Linguistics. John Benjamins Publishing. p. 230. ISBN 978-90-272-8994-0. Retrieved 4 September 2017.
^ Jenson, Deborah, ed. (2012). Beyond the Slave Narrative: Politics, Sex, and Manuscripts in the Haitian Revolution. Liverpool University Press. p. 257. ISBN 978-1-84631-760-6. Retrieved 4 September 2017.
^ Saint Martin, Weston (2005). Les formes des pronoms personnels de l'haïtien et leur place en comparaison avec celles du français (PDF) (Thesis) (in French). pp. 9–11. OCLC 155834626. Archived (PDF) from the original on 27 April 2016.
^ Léger, Frenand (2011). Pawòl Lakay: Haitian-Creole Language and Culture for Beginner and Intermediate Learners. Coconut Creek, Florida: Educa Vision. p. 6. ISBN 978-1-58432-687-8. OCLC 742361935.
^ a b Damoiseau, Robert; Jean-Paul, Gesner (2002). J'apprends le créole haïtien [I’m Learning Haitian Creole] (in French and Haitian Creole). Port-au-Prince and Paris: Faculté de Linguistique Appliquée, Université d'État d'Haïti and Éditions Karthala. pp. 66–67. ISBN 978-2-84586-301-9. OCLC 50772881. OL 4553655W. Kèlkeswa kote ou fè nan peyi a lè ou kite Pòtoprens, ou travèse zòn kote yo fè jaden... / Quelle que soit la route qu'on emprunte pour sortir de Port-au-prince, on traverse des zones cultivées.
^ a b Damoiseau, Robert; Jean-Paul, Gesner (2002). J'apprends le créole haïtien [I'm Learning Haitian Creole] (in French and Haitian Creole). Port-au-Prince and Paris: 'Faculté de Linguistique Appliquée, Université d'État d'Haïti and Éditions Karthala. pp. 82–83. ISBN 978-2-84586-301-9. OCLC 50772881. OL 4553655W. Yo pa fè diferans ant « kawotchou » machin ak « wou » machin nan. Yo di yonn pou lòt. Gen kawotchou ki fèt pou resevwa chanm, genyen ki pa sèvi ak chanm. Yo rele kawotchou sa a tiblès... / On ne fait pas de différence entre « pneu » et « roue » d'une voiture. On dit l'un pour l'autre. Il y a des pneus conçus pour recevoir une chambre à air, il y en a qui s'utilisent sans chambre à air. On appelle ce dernier type de pneus « tubeless ».
^ DeGraff, Michel; Véronique, Daniel (2000). "À propos de la syntaxe des pronoms objets en créole haïtien : points de vue croisés de la morphologie et de la diachronie" [On the Syntax of Object Pronouns in Haitian Creole: Contrasting Perspectives of Morphology and Diachrony]. Langages. Syntaxe des langues créoles (in French). 34 (138): 89–113. doi:10.3406/lgge.2000.2373. ISSN 0458-726X. JSTOR 41683354. OCLC 196570924.
^ Tézil, David. 2019. The nasalization of the Haitian Creole determiner La in non-nasal contexts: a variationist sociolinguistic study. PhD dissertation, Indiana University.
(Têzil 2019, p. 9, notes: "[T]his variety is frequently subject to depreciative [sic] attitudes, as Capois speakers face the predominance of Port-au-Prince Creole...")
^ Heurtelou, Maude; Vilsaint, Féquière (2004). "Atik defini ak atik endefini". Guide to Learning Haitian Creole (in English and Haitian Creole) (2nd ed.). Coconut Creek, Florida: Educa Vision. p. 28. ISBN 978-1-58432-108-8. LCCN 2007362183. OCLC 56117033.
^ Cadely, Jean-Robert (2003). "Nasality in Haitian Creole". In Adone, Dany (ed.). Recent Development in Creole Studies. Linguistische Arbeiten. Vol. 472. Tübingen, Germany: Max Niemeyer Verlag. p. 20. doi:10.1515/9783110948318.5. ISBN 978-3-11-094831-8. ISSN 0344-6727. OCLC 5131095031.
^ a b Gall, Timothy L.; Hobby, Jeneen, eds. (2009). Worldmark Encyclopedia of Cultures and Daily Life: Americas. p. 265. ISBN 978-1-4144-4890-9. Retrieved 1 February 2017.
^ Targète, Jean; Urciolo, Raphael G. (1993). Haitian Creole–English Dictionary (in Haitian Creole and English) (2nd ed.). Kensington, Maryland: Dunwoody Press. pp. i, 63, 141. ISBN 978-0-931745-75-1. LCCN 93071725. OCLC 30037768. OL 3628156W. Archived from the original on 12 November 2015. Retrieved 13 November 2015 – via Yumpu. Most English words that are of the same origin as Creole words are marked with an asterisk (*).... Etazini n[oun] United States* ... ozetazini In the U.S.A.
^ Bollée, Annegret, ed. (2018). Dictionnaire étymologique des créoles français d'Amérique (PDF). Kreolische Bibliothek (in French and English). Vol. 29. Hamburg: Buske. p. 32. ISBN 978-3-87548-881-4. OCLC 982379542. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 July 2018.
^ a b Katz, Jonathan M. (2013). The Big Truck That Went By: How the World Came to Save Haiti and Left Behind a Disaster. St. Martin's Press. pp. 77–78. ISBN 978-1-137-32395-8. LCCN 2012037217. OCLC 886583605. OL 16813109W.
^ "Vignettes from Jakzi" (PDF). Haiti Marycare News. 2013. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 May 2015.
^ Rahill, Guitele; Jean-Gilles, Michele; Thomlison, Barbara; Pinto-Lopez, Elsa (2011). "Metaphors as Contextual Evidence for Engaging Haitian Clients in Practice: A Case Study". American Journal of Psychotherapy. 65 (2): 138–139. doi:10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.2011.65.2.133. ISSN 0002-9564. PMID 21847891. Archived (PDF) from the original on 31 October 2015. The importance of metaphors in Haitian storytelling is reflected in the value ascribed to proverbs as an important aspect of teaching and reinforcing practical wisdom and values to children and community members. The existence of two separate texts in which 999 to more than 3000 Haitian proverbs are documented serve as evidence of the importance of these proverbs and their centrality in traditional Haitian culture...
^ "Civic Heraldry of Haiti". Heraldry of the World. Archived from the original on 26 April 2014. Retrieved 6 September 2015.
^ McAlister, Elizabeth A. (2002). "6. Voices under Domination: Rara and the Politics of Insecurity". Rara!: Vodou, Power, and Performance in Haiti and Its Diaspora. University of California Press. p. 168. ISBN 978-0-520-22822-1. LCCN 2001005016. OCLC 5559545903. OL 7711139M. Aristide took ownership of the pwen and replied with another: 'Men anpil chay pa lou' ("With many hands, the burden is not heavy").
^ Cynn, Christine (2008). "Nou Mande Jistis! (We Demand Justice!): Reconstituting Community and Victimhood in Raboteau, Haiti". Women's Studies Quarterly. 36 (½): 42–57. doi:10.1353/wsq.0.0071. ISSN 1934-1520. JSTOR 27649734. OCLC 5547107092. S2CID 84608576. After Aristide announced his unexpected candidacy in the 1990 presidential elections, the American ambassador to Haiti, Alvin Adams, in a speech assured Haitians that the United States would support whichever candidate was elected but concluded his remarks with a proverb (or pwen) emphasizing the problems that would remain after the elections: 'After the dance, the drum is heavy [Apre bal, tanbou lou]'....
^ a b c d e f g h i Freeman, Bryant C. (1997). Haitian–English Medical Phraseology (PDF). Medicine in Haiti (in English and Haitian Creole). Vol. 1. Lawrence, Kansas: Institute of Haitian Studies, University of Kansas. OCLC 38740045. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 September 2015.
^ Rosenthal, Kent (11 July 2006). "Undeclared War on Haiti's Poor". Eureka Street. 16 (8). ISSN 1036-1758. Archived from the original on 9 July 2014. The rock in the sun cannot get ahead like the rock in the water. Whether you're the rock suffering in the sun or whether you're cooling off in the water depends on where you were born, what passport you hold, what education you have, whether you speak French, whether your parents are peasants or well-off, whether your parents are married or if you have a birth certificate. Chance can deal a very cruel or kind hand in Haiti.
^ Joint, Gasner (1999). "Impact social du vaudou". Libération du vaudou dans la dynamique d'inculturation en Haïti [The Liberation of Vodou in the Dynamic of Inculturation in Haiti]. Interreligious and Intercultural Investigations (in French). Vol. 2. Rome: Gregorian & Biblical Press. p. 167. ISBN 978-88-7652-824-8. LCCN 2001421254. OCLC 51448466. Cette situation d'injustice institutionalisée est dénoncée par la philosophie populaire dans les adages courants comme : ... « Ravèt pa janm gen rezon devan poul » ... « Un cafard ne saurait l'emporter sur un poulet ». Expression populaire et imagée de la loi de la jungle: « la raison du plus fort est toujours la meilleure ».
^ Joseph, Celucien L. (2014). "Toward a Politico-Theology of Relationalit: Justice as Solidarity and the Poor in Aristide's Theological Imagination". Toronto Journal of Theology. 30 (2): 270. doi:10.3138/tjt.2105. ISSN 0826-9831. S2CID 144847968. [Peter] Hallward has wrongly misconstrued [Jean-Bertrand] Aristide's affirmative and egalitarian principle tout moun se moun ('Everybody is a person')—the idea that everyone matters and that 'everyone is endowed with the same essential dignity.'
^ Faedi Duramy, Benedetta (2008). "The Double Weakness of Girls: Discrimination and Sexual Violence in Haiti". Stanford Journal of International Law. 44: 150. Li pale franse (He speaks French (so he is likely deceiving you).)
^ Targète, Jean; Urciolo, Raphael G. (1993). Haitian Creole–English Dictionary (in Haitian Creole and English) (2nd ed.). Kensington, Maryland: Dunwoody Press. p. 154. ISBN 978-0-931745-75-1. LCCN 93071725. OCLC 30037768. OL 3628156W. Archived from the original on 7 September 2015. Retrieved 7 September 2015 – via Yumpu. Lè poul va fè dan: Never (when hens grow teeth).
^ "enfòmaysyan sou tit iv – haitian creole" (PDF).
^ Moise, Raymond (30 October 2015). "Haitian Radio Stations". Bonpounou. Archived from the original on 9 August 2015.
^ "Creole (Minor)". Jamaica, New York: York College. 2014. Archived from the original on 30 August 2015.
^ "Indiana University Creole Institute".
^ "Schedule of Classes, Fall 2015" (PDF). Durham, North Carolina: Duke University. 2015. p. 40. Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 July 2015. Retrieved 31 July 2015.
^ "Elementary Haitian Kreyol". Directory of Classes. New York: Columbia University. 2015. Archived from the original on 30 August 2015. Retrieved 30 August 2015. This course is part of the language exchange program with New York University...
^ "Institute of Latin American Studies: CU–NYU Consortium Courses: Spring 2016" (PDF). New York: Columbia University. 4 November 2015. p. 1. Archived (PDF) from the original on 7 January 2016.
^ "College of Liberal Arts and Sciences". Archived from the original on 18 January 2017. Retrieved 18 January 2017.
^ "English Language Learner Demographics Report for the 2015–16 School Year" (PDF). New York City Department of Education. Archived from the original (PDF) on 18 April 2018. Retrieved 19 July 2018.
^ Cerat, Marie Lily (2011). "Myths and Realities: A History of Haitian Creole Language Programs in New York City". Journal of Haitian Studies. 17: 73–91.
^ Press, ed. (16 March 2016). "Haitian and Creole Culture in Cuba". Cuba Journal. Archived from the original on 3 February 2017. Retrieved 7 February 2017.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)
^ a b "Haiti in Cuba". AfroCubaWeb. Archived from the original on 30 June 2015.
^ "Primera Encuesta Nacional de Inmigrantes en la República Dominicana" [First National Survey of Immigrants in the Dominican Republic] (PDF) (in Spanish). Santo Domingo: Oficina Nacional de Estadística. 2012. p. 163. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 June 2015. Retrieved 17 June 2015.
^ "Illegal Haitians deported". DR1. 16 August 2005. Archived from the original on 19 June 2015. Retrieved 31 July 2015.
^ Davis, Nick (20 September 2009). "Bahamas outlook clouds for Haitians". BBC News. London. Archived from the original on 28 May 2015.
^ Ethnologue – Bahamas (18th ed.)
^ "Carnegie Mellon releases data on Haitian Creole to hasten development of translation tools". e! Science News. 27 January 2010. Archived from the original on 2 July 2013. Retrieved 31 July 2015.
Further reading[edit]
Anglade, Pierre (1998). Inventaire Étymologique des Termes Créoles des Caraibes d'origine Africaine (in French). Editions L'Harmattan. ISBN 9782296352582.
DeGraff, Michel (2001). "Morphology in Creole genesis: Linguistics and ideology" (PDF). In Kenstowicz, Michael (ed.). Ken Hale: A life in language. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. pp. 52–121. ISBN 978-0-262-61160-2. LCCN 00-061644. OCLC 44702224. Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 July 2015.
Lang, George (2004). "A Primer of Haitian Literature in Kreyòl ". Research in African Literatures. 35 (2): 128–140. doi:10.1353/ral.2004.0046. ISSN 1527-2044. JSTOR 3821349. S2CID 162026210.
External links[edit]
 Haitian Creole  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Haitian Creole test of Wiktionary at Wikimedia Incubator
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Haitian Creole
Wikiversity has learning resources about Haitian Creole
"Indiana University Creole Institute".
Haitian Creole basic vocabulary (from Wiktionary's Swadesh-list appendix)
Haitian Creole-English dictionary (PDF)
vteHaiti articlesHistory
Taíno chiefdoms
Captaincy General of Santo Domingo
Colonial governors
Atlantic slave trade
Maroons
Peace of Ryswick
Saint-Domingue
Colonial governors
Slavery
Le Jeune Case
Haitian Revolution
1804 massacre
First Empire
State
Kingdom
Republic
1806–1820
1820–1849
Unification of Hispaniola
Second Empire
Post-imperial Republic
U.S. occupation
Duvalier dynasty
Anti-Duvalier protest movement
1991 coup d'état
2004 coup d'état
2010 earthquake
2010s cholera outbreak
Hurricane Matthew
2018–2023 Haitian protests
COVID-19 pandemic
2021 earthquake
2022 Haitian crisis
Timeline
List of revolutions and coups d'état
Geography
Administrative divisions
Arrondissements
Border
Cities
Deforestation
Departments
Earthquakes
Environment
Hispaniola
Islands
National parks
Rivers
Wildlife
World Heritage Sites
Politics
Constitution
Elections
Foreign relations
Government
Human rights
LGBT rights
Law enforcement
Military
Commanders-in-chief
Parliament
Political parties
President
List
Prime Minister
List
Supreme Court
Economy
Agriculture
Central bank
External debt
Foreign aid
Gourde (currency)
Poverty
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
Society
Crime
Demographics
Education
Ethnic groups
Health
Religion
People
Social class
Squatting
Water and sanitation
Culture
Art
Coat of arms
Cinema
Citadelle Laferrière
Cuisine
Flag
Haitian Creole
Haitian French
Literature
Media
Music
Mythology
National anthem
Palais Sans Souci
Public holidays
Television
The Unknown Maroon
OutlineIndex
Category
Portal
vteFrench-based creole languages and pidgins by continentAfrica
Burundi Pidgin
Nouchi
Petit Mauresque
Petit nègre
Americas
Antillean
Dominican
Grenadian
Saint Lucian
Haitian
Louisiana
Guadeloupe
Guianese
Karipúna
Lanc-Patuá
Michif
Belle Isle
Asia
Tây Bồi
Indian Ocean
Bourbonnais
Agalega
Chagossian
Mauritian
Réunion
Rodriguan
Seychellois
Oceania
Tayo
vteGallo-Romance languages and dialectsAreal groups
Canadian French
Langues d'oïl
Angevin
Antillean Creole
Dominican
Grenadian
Saint Lucian
Berrichon
Bolze
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Burundi Pidgin
Camfranglais
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
French
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay
African
Abidjan
Kinshasa
Aostan
Belgian
Métis
New England
Québécois
Joual
Magoua
Cambodian
Francien
Franco-Ontarian
Frenchville
Haitian
Houma French
Indian
Jersey Legal French
Laotian
Middle French
Meridional
Metropolitan
Missouri
Muskrat
Newfoundland
Saint-Barthélemy
Standard
Swiss
Vietnamese
Gallo
Guianese
Haitian Creole
Karipúna Creole
Labrador Inuit Pidgin
Lorrain
Welche
Louisiana Creole
Louisiana French
Michif
Moselle Romance
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Law French
Old Norman
Sercquiais
Nouchi
Old French
Orléanais
Petit nègre
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Tayo
Tây Bồi
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Zarphatic
Bourbonnais Creoles
Agalega
Chagossian
Mauritian
Réunion
Rodriguan
Seychellois
Francoprovencalic
Faetar/Faetar-Cigliàje
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Italics indicate extinct languages or dialectsBold indicates varieties with more than 5 million speakersLanguages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control National
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Haitian_Creole&oldid=1173144507"
Categories: Haitian CreoleLanguages of HaitiSubject–verb–object languagesLanguages of the African diasporaHidden categories: Articles containing French-language textArticles containing Haitian Creole-language textCS1 French-language sources (fr)CS1 Haitian Creole-language sources (ht)CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyAll articles that may contain original researchArticles that may contain original research from July 2018CS1 maint: location missing publisherCS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknownCS1 Spanish-language sources (es)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from October 2019Language articles with IETF language tagLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles citing NationalencyklopedinArticles containing Portuguese-language textArticles containing Latin-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2021Articles containing Fon-language textArticles with unsourced statements from September 2017Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2021Articles with unsourced statements from October 2021All articles with vague or ambiguous timeVague or ambiguous time from October 2021All articles with failed verificationArticles with failed verification from October 2021Wikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2015Articles with unsourced statements from February 2017Articles needing additional references from February 2017All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Spanish-language textArticles containing Akan-language textArticles containing Taino-language textArticles containing Fula-language textArticles containing Kongo-language textArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2015All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2012Articles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiersArticles containing video clips
 This page was last edited on 31 August 2023, at 15:10 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width