Public Health Ethics Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Public Health Ethics12,896 FollowersRecent papers in Public Health EthicsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleFemale genital mutilation (FGM) and male circumcision: Should there be a separate ethical discourse?It is sometimes argued that the non-therapeutic, non-consensual alteration of children’s genitals should be discussed in two separate ethical discourses: one for girls (in which such alterations should be termed ‘female genital... moreIt is sometimes argued that the non-therapeutic, non-consensual alteration of children’s genitals should be discussed in two separate ethical discourses: one for girls (in which such alterations should be termed ‘female genital mutilation’ or FGM), and one for boys (in which such alterations should be termed ‘male circumcision’). In this article, I call into question the moral and empirical basis for such a distinction, and argue that all children—whether female, male, or intersex—should be free from having parts of their genitals removed unless there is a pressing medical indication.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brian D. Earp•  123  Religion, Sociology, Cultural Studies, Political SociologyEditorial: New Media and Risky Behavior of Children and Young People: Ethics and Policy Implications. Introducing the Themes and Pushing for More Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian Munthe•  15  Health Sciences, Ethics, Applied Ethics, BioethicsThe ethics of disease eradication.This paper provides an examination of the ethics of disease eradication policies. It examines three arguments that have been advanced for thinking that eradication is in some way ethically exceptional as a policy goal. These are (1)... moreThis paper provides an examination of the ethics of disease eradication policies. It examines three arguments that have been advanced for thinking that eradication is in some way ethically exceptional as a policy goal. These are (1) global eradication has symbolic importance, (2) disease eradication is a global public good and (3) disease eradication is a form of rescue. It argues that none of these provides a good reason to think that individuals have special duties to facilitate eradication campaigns, or that public health authorities have special permissions to pursue them. But the fact that these arguments fail does not entail that global disease eradication is ethically problematic, or that it should not be undertaken. Global eradication of a disease, if successful, is a way of providing an enormous health benefit that stretches far into the future. There is no need to reach for the idea that there is a special duty to eradicate disease; the same considerations that are in play in ordinary public health policy – of reducing the burden of disease equitably and efficiently – suffice to make global disease eradication a compelling goal where doing so is feasible.Save to LibraryDownloadby James Wilson•  5  Public Health Ethics, Global Public Goods, Time discounting, Polio EradicationToward a Public Health Approach to Infertility: The Ethical Dimensions of Infertility PreventionSave to LibraryDownloadby Vardit Ravitsky•  4  Philosophy, Applied Ethics, Public Health Ethics, MedicinePhysician Assisted SuicideSave to LibraryDownloadby Mariano Torres•Public Health EthicsPERSON CENTREDNESS AND SHARED DECISION-MAKING IN FORENSIC CARE, SOCIAL SERVICES AND PUBLIC HEALTHShared decision-making and person centred care (PCC/SDM) are increasingly embraced framework conceptions on how to organise health care's interaction with patients. Although underlying ethical motivation may vary, PCC/SDM holds ideals of... moreShared decision-making and person centred care (PCC/SDM) are increasingly embraced framework conceptions on how to organise health care's interaction with patients. Although underlying ethical motivation may vary, PCC/SDM holds ideals of a greater adaption of health care to individual circumstances, and of recognising patients as collaborators in clinical decision-making. The PCC/SDM notion has migrated quickly across many areas where it is less clear how it applies, due to patients being in non-standard conditions with regard to personal capacities or care context, and detected to offer a number of peculiar ethical and practical challenges. But the migration has also reached areas with even less similarity to the original PCC/SDM landscape of somatic hospital care. In this presentation, we describe – based on comissioned and work in a Swedish context and ongoing research studies – three examples of this expansion and survey these for extra ethical complications: forensic care, social services and public health (outside of health care institutions). Each area offers peculiar extra ethical challenges for PCC/SDM, as they depart extensively from standard assumptions by, in various ways, embracing goals not built on the standard individualist assumptions of health care ethics. It is possible to implement adapted forms of PCC/SDM to these areas, but these cannot be assumed to serve ideals of emancipating, empowering or recognising individuals as persons. Rather, they have to be viewed though a lens of public goods aimed for in the respective areas. Clients and patients are entitled to be made aware of this fact, but regardless of this, the mentioned perspective-shift will pose particular challenges for health professionals. At the same time, PCC/SDM strategies may also open up for approaches to resolving these tensions and meet typical challenges that would otherwise have remained out of reach.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian Munthe•  16  Forensic Psychology, Applied Ethics, Social Work, BioethicsThe Goals of Public Health: An Integrated, Multidimensional ModelWhile promoting population health has been the classic goal of public health practice and policy, in recent decades, new objectives in terms of autonomy and equality have been introduced. These different goals are analysed, and it is... moreWhile promoting population health has been the classic goal of public health practice and policy, in recent decades, new objectives in terms of autonomy and equality have been introduced. These different goals are analysed, and it is demonstrated how they may conflict severly in several ways, leaving serious unclarities both regarding the normative issue of what goal should be pursued by public health, what that implies in practical terms, and the descriptive issue of what goal that actually is pursued in different contexts. A basic conflict of perspective is handled by integrating the ideas of public health striving for health-related autonomy and equality, resulting in a prioritarian oriented population approach to health-related autonomy. This integrated goal is demonstrated to constrain itself in several ways attractive from the point of view of the classic goal, but several serious problems remain. For this reason, a model where all of the three goals are integrated into one coherent structure where they can be assigned varying degrees of importance relative to the level of population health is described. It is argued that this model avoids the problems set out earlier, and is actually normatively preferable to the classic goal alone. It is furthermore argued that the model may be employed as a useful tool for descriptive ethics, as well as a vehicle for international harmonisation of public health policies. A number of practical implications regarding, e.g., the importance of respecting autonomy and the allocation of public health resources are noted, as are a battery of questions for further research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian Munthe•  7  Philosophy, Applied Philosophy, Political Philosophy, EthicsSridhar Venkatapuram's Health Justice (Editorial), Bioethics 2016Save to LibraryDownloadby Eszter Kollar•  4  Social Justice, Public Health Ethics, Capability Approach, Health JusticeDeveloping a Media Strategy to Minimize Loss to Follow-Up in the Pediatric HIV/AIDS Cohort Study (PHACS) Using PhotovoiceWith the lack of attention to the attrition of child participants, loss to follow up (LTFU) holds significant implications for the health of young adults in the Pediatric HIV/AIDS Cohort Study (PHACS), a multi-center cohort study with... moreWith the lack of attention to the attrition of child participants, loss to follow up (LTFU) holds significant implications for the health of young adults in the Pediatric HIV/AIDS Cohort Study (PHACS), a multi-center cohort study with children either perinatally infected with HIV (PHIV) or HIV-exposed uninfected (HEU). Young adults (18+) face barriers to being retained in the study, including competing time demands, geographic relocation, study fatigue, stigma, and low health literacy. Formative research, Photovoice (participatory photo elicitation), and a focus group informed the design of a web-based media strategy based on the Elaboration Likelihood Model (ELM) to increase study engagement. Six members of the Young Adult and Adult Community Advisory Boards (CABs) were recruited via email and given Photovoice training via Prezi. Photos were taken around the theme of self-identity. A teleconference focus group facilitated reflections and salient themes for the video compilation exhibit. Themes included: 1) stereotypes, 2) layered-identities, 3) stigma, and 4) self-identity. Additional meta-themes were also codified. Media strategy recommendations included: 1) participatory media and photography, 2) digital story maps, 3) social media, and 4) content and topics. Based on the results of this project with a limited sample, participatory media like Photovoice may have a positive impact on participants at risk for LTFU by increasing study engagement. While some research supports this qualitative methodology, limitations must be considered. Future PHACS projects should incorporate a needs assessment and evaluation. Moreover, further research in this area of public health and health communication needs to continue overall.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daryl Mangosing, MPH•  31  Health Sciences, Visual Studies, Health Communication, Self and IdentityDisadvantaging the Disadvantaged: When Public Health Policies and Practices Negatively Affect Marginalized PopulationsPublic health is intimately related to social justice, which is why practice and research in the field seek to improve the social determinants of health. Despite the best intentions of those working in public health, however, some... morePublic health is intimately related to social justice, which is why practice and research in the field seek to improve the social determinants of health. Despite the best intentions of those working in public health, however, some policies and practices inadvertently further disadvantage pre-existing marginalized populations. In this paper, we provide a diagnosis of possible reasons why this phenomenon might occur. We posit that the challenges associated with further marginalizing certain populations stem from a) not acknowledging the normative aspects of apparently objective data, b) a misunderstanding and an uncritical alignment of public health goals with the ethics theory of utilitarianism, and c) assuming that those working in public health might be able to fully understand the experiences of marginalized populations. It is our view that the trend of public consultation with marginalized persons, the explicit teaching of ethics and philosophy of science in graduate departments of public health, and the increased use of health equity impact assessments might help protect against public health policies and practices that disadvantage marginalized populations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maxwell J Smith•  2  Bioethics, Public Health EthicsPemetaan Faktor Resiko (Keberadaan Jamban) Penularan Penyakit Di Kampus Kesehatan LingkunganSave to LibraryDownloadby Vio Ardilles  Brahmana•  11  Epidemiology, Public Health Ethics, Concept Mapping, Public HealthPOVERTY, HEALTH AND LAW: READINGS AND CASES FOR MEDICAL-LEGAL PARTNERSHIPSave to LibraryDownloadby Ross Silverman•  8  Bioethics, Public Health Law, Public Health Ethics, Public Health PolicyHealth-Related DeservingnessWillen, Sarah S. & Jennifer Cook. 2016. “Health-Related Deservingness.” In Felicity Thomas, ed. Handbook of Migration and Health. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing.http://www.e-elgar.com/shop/handbook-of-migration-and-healthSave to LibraryDownloadby Sarah S Willen•  11  Medical Anthropology, Critical Medical Anthropology, Public Health Ethics, Medical EthicsAllergies and asthma: employing principles of social justice as a guide in public health policy developmentSave to LibraryDownloadby Jason Behrmann•  5  Social Justice, Public Health Ethics, Public Health Policy, Allergy (Biomedicine)Appeals to individual responsibility for health: reconsidering the luck egalitarian perspectiveThe notion of individual responsibility has gained prominence in recent debates about health care. First, responsibility has been proposed as a rationing criterion; second, some policies use rewards and sanctions to encourage individuals... moreThe notion of individual responsibility has gained prominence in recent debates about health care. First, responsibility has been proposed as a rationing criterion; second, some policies use rewards and sanctions to encourage individuals to ‘take responsibility’ for their health; finally, acting responsibly within the health care system is portrayed as a requirement of reciprocity. The aim of this paper is two-fold. First, I assess these different kinds of appeal to individual responsibility from the perspective of equality. The literature has identified important concerns about equality and fairness with proposals to use individual responsibility as a rationing criterion; I suggest that there are similar concerns about incentive schemes and reciprocity-based appeals to individual responsibility. The analysis will draw on luck egalitarian accounts of equality, which emphasise the importance of individual responsibility. This allows me to pursue the second objective for paper: to reconsider the luck egalitarian perspective on these different appeals to responsibility. Applying the arguments of recent contributions to the luck egalitarian literature to the health arena suggests that luck egalitarians need not support the use of responsibility as a rationing criterion, and they can also identify problems with incentives and reciprocity-based arguments. However, the language of individual responsibility and its prominence in public debates may have implications for individuals’ health and well-being, which raises challenging issues for luck egalitarians as they attempt to apply their theory to the real world.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kristin  Voigt•  2  Political Theory, Public Health EthicsPaul Farmer et al. Reimagining Global HealthSave to LibraryDownloadby Daniel T Kim•  3  Global Health, Public Health Ethics, Health Care EthicsThe Ethics of Screening in Health Care and Medicine: Serving Society or Serving the Patient?REVIEWS: In Medicine, Health Care and Philosophy: http://www.springerlink.com/content/44275q410286r7q1/ ABSTRACT Medical or health-oriented screening programs are amongst the most debated aspects of health care and public health... moreREVIEWS:In Medicine, Health Care and Philosophy: http://www.springerlink.com/content/44275q410286r7q1/  ABSTRACTMedical or health-oriented screening programs are amongst the most debated aspects of health care and public health practices in health care and public health ethics, as well as health policy discussions. In spite of this, most treatments of screening in the research literature restrict themselves to isolated scientific aspects, sometimes complemented by economic analyses or loose speculations regarding policy aspects. At the same time, recent advances in medical genetics and technology, as well as a rapidly growing societal focus on public health concerns, inspires an increase in suggested or recently started screening programs.  This book involves an in-depth analysis of the ethical, political and philosophical issues related to health-oriented screening programs. It explores the considerations that arise when heath care interacts with other societal institutions on a large scale, as is the case with screening: What values may be promoted or compromised by screening programs? What conflicts of values do typically arise – both internally and in relation to the goals of health care, on the one hand, and the goals of public health and the general society, on the other? What aspects of screening are relevant for determining whether it should be undertaken or not and how it should be organised in order to remain defensible? What implications does the ethics of screening have for health care ethics as a whole? These questions are addressed by applying philosophical methods of conceptual analysis, as well as models and theories from moral and political philosophy, medical ethics, and public health ethics, to a large number of ongoing and proposed screening programs which makes this book the first comprehensive work on the ethics of screening. Analyses and suggestions are made that are of potential interest to health care staff, medical researchers, policy makers and the general public. CONTENTSAcknowledgements Chapter 1: Introduction  1.1 The Wilson and Jungner Criteria 1.2 Point and Plan 1.3 The Concept of Screening Chapter 2: Why Screening?  2.1 Screening, Treatment and Prevention: Preliminary Remarks 2.2 Health: Life and Well-being 2.2.1 Health and Counselling 2.2.2 The Good of People and of the Population 2.3 Autonomy2.3.1 Respecting and Promoting Autonomy2.3.2 Promoting Autonomy through Screening 2.4 Justice 2.5 Summary Chapter 3: Screening – What, When and Whom?  3.1 Diseases and Groups3.1.1 Prenatal Screening3.1.2 Neonatal Screening 3.1.2.1 Reasons for Screening in the Neonatal Period 3.1.2.2 Neonatal Screening and Parental Informed Consent 3.1.2.3 Expanding Neonatal Screening – How Far?3.1.3 Child and Adolescent Screening 3.1.3.1 Stigmatisation 3.1.3.2 The Child as Decision Maker3.1.4 Adult Screening 3.2 Testing and Analysis3.2.1 Safety3.2.2 Validity3.2.3 Predictive Value 3.3 Treatments3.3.1 Abortion as Treatment3.3.2 Counselling as Treatment  3.4 Summary Chapter 4: Screening – How? 4.1 Informed Consent4.2 Counselling4.2.1 Genetic Counselling as a Template4.2.2 Expansion: Shared Decision Making 4.3 Funding and Participation 4.4 Summary Chapter 5: Case Studies 5.1 Non-Invasive Prenatal Diagnosis5.2 Neonatal Screening for Fragile X5.3 Mammography Screening5.4 PSA Screening for Prostate Cancer  Chapter 6: Serving Society or Serving the Patient? 6.1 Summary of the Analysis So far6.2 The Public Health – Health Care Tension Area6.3 The Relevance of a Social Science Perspective6.4 An Institutional Approach to health-related Ethics: A Sketch6.5 Applying the Institutional Approach: Three Cases6.5.1 Institutions, Functions and Ethics: Reproductive Care vs. Communicable Disease6.5.2 Direct to Consumer Genetic Testing: The Limits of Context Relativity6.5.3 Screening and Justice: The Case Against Allocating Health Care Resources to Screening  6.6 Revisiting the Wilson and Jungner Criteria for Screening6.7 Closing RefrencesIndexSave to LibraryDownloadby Christian Munthe•  25  Health Sciences, Applied Philosophy, Ethics, Applied EthicsThe Ethical Space of Mindfulness in Clinical PracticeMindfulness is a burgeoning field of study and practice within mental health care and medicine. Yet ethical codes, and the philosophy of the therapist-client relationship, differ greatly between disciplines, and even more between those... moreMindfulness is a burgeoning field of study and practice within mental health care and medicine. Yet ethical codes, and the philosophy of the therapist-client relationship, differ greatly between disciplines, and even more between those disciplines and mindfulness-based approaches. The potential for ethical dilemmas is therefore significant. The book breaks new ground by taking a focused look at an ethics derived from contemporary clinical mindfulness practice itself. What does a secular ethics of mindfulness look like? Who is competent to work therapeutically with mindfulness, and how does one delimit areas and levels of competence? How do clinicians ethically understand the therapist-client relationship from the therapeutic position of mindfulness? And how do clinicians respond when the necessary restraints of their professional role and ethics code come into conflict with the mindfulness-based relationship and therapeutic position? This book makes a vital contribution to the understanding of ethics as the cornerstone of mindfulness-based practice, and will be of interest to all those involved in delivering mindfulness-based interventions, including psychologists, counselors, spiritual directors, occupational therapists, physicians, nurses, and educators.Save to LibraryDownloadby Donald McCown•  76  Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Social Psychology, PsychiatryThe Jurisprudence of  Emergency Medical Care in India: An Ethics PerspectiveThis paper, which is part of a primary interdisciplinary doctoral research work with a qualitative research design, seeks to understand the ethical principles that intersect healthcare jurisprudence in litigations where citizens, who have... moreThis paper, which is part of a primary interdisciplinary doctoral research work with a qualitative research design, seeks to understand the ethical principles that intersect healthcare jurisprudence in litigations where citizens, who have encountered death or violations in the provision of critical care, have had to take recourse to the courts to get justice. Primary data was triangulated from (i) a review of 10 judgments of the Supreme Court of India and high courts on emergency medical care and medical negligence, selected through a keyword search in legal databases, and (ii) 45 in-depth and expert interviews conducted with judges, advocates, public health experts and petitioners. The respondents were selected on the basis of purposive sampling and snowballing methods. The analysis was guided by the political-economic and moral-ethical perspectives of the right to healthcare. "Preservation of/saving life" and "duty of care" are established as absolute, non-negotiable and supreme constitutional obligations of the medical profession and the State. Conversely, refusing adequate and emergency care in institutions such as police stations, prisons, railways, and public and private medical establishments is considered a violation of the fundamental right to life. Even though ethics jurisprudence is constrained by the commercial-profiteering ethos, especially in the context of Indian healthcare policy, the analysis points to the fact that principles of right to life and dignity do lay the foundation of discourse on healthcare jurisprudence in India. This provides a strong basis for enhancing care for citizens and shaping the healthcare system to meet critical, chronic and emergency needs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Edward  Premdas Pinto•  3  Public Health Ethics, Public Health, Health and Human RightsBioethics in Health Policy Development: A Primer for Decision-MakersSave to LibraryDownloadby Jason Behrmann•  4  Public Health Ethics, Public Health Policy, Health Policy, AllergyThe Little Albert Study (1920)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mariano Torres•  2  History, Public Health EthicsHealth Equity in Public Health: Clarifying our CommitmentHealth equity is increasingly identified as a principal goal to be achieved through public health policies and activities. However, what is to be measured in the assessment of health equity and how inequities in health ought to be... moreHealth equity is increasingly identified as a principal goal to be achieved through public health policies and activities. However, what is to be measured in the assessment of health equity and how inequities in health ought to be redressed are among the pressing questions that must be answered if health equity is to serve as a meaningful and consistent ethical guide for measurement and intervention in public health. In this article I argue that the concept of health equity, in the form it is predominantly found in public health, suffers from normative indeterminacy and is therefore unlikely to provide actionable normative guidance to public health policy-makers, practitioners and researchers. I argue that the concept of health equity, as it is commonly defined in public health, ultimately rests upon assumptions of a more fundamental, yet tacit, conception of justice to do its normative work. In this vein, I expand upon a critique of Margaret Whitehead’s (1992) oft-cited definition of health equity made by James Wilson (2011) to raise additional reasons not explored by Wilson, or others, as to why Whitehead’s definition remains inadequate in providing normative guidance to policy-makers, practitioners and researchers in public health.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maxwell J Smith•  10  Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, Public Health Policy, Health JusticeAdherence, Shared Decision-Making and Patient AutonomyIn recent years the formerly quite strong interest in patient compliance has been questioned for being too paternalistic and oriented towards overly narrow biomedical goals as the basis for treatment recommendations. In line with this... moreIn recent years the formerly quite strong interest in patient compliance has been questioned for being too paternalistic and oriented towards overly narrow biomedical goals as the basis for treatment recommendations. In line with this there has been a shift towards using the notion of adherence to signal an increased weight for patients’ preferences and autonomy in decision making around treatments. This ‘adherence-paradigm’ thus encompasses shared decision-making as an ideal and patient perspective and autonomy as guiding goals of care. What this implies in terms of the importance that we have reason to attach to (non-)adherence and how has, however, not been explained. In this article, we explore the relationship between different forms of shared decision-making, patient autonomy and adherence. Distinguishing between dynamically and statically framed adherence we show how the version of shared decision-making advocated will have consequences for whether one should be interested in a dynamically or statically framed adherence and in what way patient adherence should be assessed. In contrast to the former compliance paradigm (where non-compliance was necessarily seen as a problem), using observations about (non-)adherence to assess the success of health care decision making and professional-patient interaction turns out to be a much less straightforward matter. Key words: Adherence, Compliance, Patient Autonomy, Patient Best Interest, Shared Decision-MakingSave to LibraryDownloadby Christian Munthe and +2Inger  EkmanLars Sandman•  13  Philosophy, Applied Philosophy, Ethics, Applied EthicsAlan Turing Institute Fellowships in Data Science EthicsThis is a unique opportunity for early career researchers to join The Alan Turing Institute. The Alan Turing Institute (ATI) is the UK’s new national institute for data science, established to bring together world-leading expertise to... moreThis is a unique opportunity for early career researchers to join The Alan Turing Institute. The Alan Turing Institute (ATI) is the UK’s new national institute for data science, established to bring together world-leading expertise to provide leadership in the emerging field of data science. The Institute has been founded by the universities of Cambridge, Edinburgh, Oxford, UCL and Warwick and the EPSRC.This is a targeted call, by which we intend to recruit researchers in subjects currently underrepresented by our fellowship cohort. Fellowships are available for 3 years with the potential for an additional 2 years of support following interim review. Fellows will pursue research based at the Institute hub in the British Library, London. Fellowships will be awarded to individual candidates and fellows will be employed by a joint venture partner university (Cambridge, Edinburgh, Oxford, UCL or Warwick).Save to LibraryDownloadby Luciano Floridi•  32  Business Ethics, Ethics, Normative Ethics, Meta-EthicsEthical Issues In Perinatal Mental Health ResearchSave to LibraryDownloadby Simon Craddock Lee and +2Anna BrandonStephen Inrig•  2  Clinical Trial, Public Health EthicsAnti-Vaxxers, Anti-Anti-Vaxxers, Fairness, and AngerSave to LibraryDownloadby Justin Bernstein•  3  Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, Political ObligationIntroduction à l'éthique de la santé publique, Sauramps Médical, https://www.livres-medicaux.com/introduction-a-l-ethique-de-la-sante-publique.htmlLa crise sanitaire provoquée par la pandémie de COVID-19 aura permis à de nombreux êtres humains, partout dans le monde, de prendre conscience que les valeurs auxquelles ils tiennent peuvent parfois entrer en conflit avec les exigences... moreLa crise sanitaire provoquée par la pandémie de COVID-19 aura permis à de nombreux êtres humains, partout dans le monde, de prendre conscience que les valeurs auxquelles ils tiennent peuvent parfois entrer en conflit avec les exigences des autorités responsables de la santé publique. Ainsi, il peut être difficile pour certains d'entre nous d'accepter que leurs libertés individuelles soient sacrifiées sur l'autel de la sécurité sanitaire. Un tel questionne-ment est éminemment éthique, car il nous interpelle sur les valeurs qui nous animent au quotidien et structurent nos existences. Une maladie contagieuse telle que la COVID-19 fait de chacun d'entre nous à la fois une possible victime, dont il faut prendre soin et protéger les droits, et un vecteur potentiel de contamination dont il faut se prémunir. Dans sa lutte contre ce type de maladies, la santé publique fait ainsi face à un véritable défi que cet ouvrage introductif permet de mieux comprendre, tout en offrant des pistes de solutions. Mais bien entendu, la santé publique s'intéresse également aux maladies non contagieuses dont la prise en charge suscite également un questionnement. Dans les sociétés occidentales passionnément attachées au respect de l'autonomie des individus, il peut être difficile d'accepter que des autorités sanitaires viennent se mêler de nos comportements quotidiens en nous conseillant, pour notre « bien », de limiter nos mauvaises habitudes (alimentaires, tabagiques, sédentaires, etc.) et d'en cultiver d'autres jugées meilleures. En même temps, n'est-il pas du devoir de ceux qui nous gouvernent de se préoccuper de notre santé ? Seule une solide réflexion éthique permettra ici aussi de mieux comprendre les valeurs en jeu et d'offrir des pistes de discernement. Cette Introduction à l'éthique de la santé publique a été conçue pour permettre aux lectrices et aux lecteurs préoccupés par ce genre de questionnement de se construire rapidement un paysage réflexif. Pour celles et ceux qui souhaitent aller plus loin et connaître l'éthique de la santé publique plus en profondeur, les nombreuses références ajoutées au texte de base constitueront un outil de choix.Save to LibraryDownloadby Laurent Ravez•Public Health EthicsIndividual liberty in public health – no trumping valueSave to LibraryDownloadby Kalle Grill•  3  Public Health Ethics, Liberty, PaternalismRelational autonomy and the ethics of health promotionRecent articles published in this journal have highlighted the shortcomings of individualistic approaches to health promotion, and the potential contributions of relational analyses of autonomy to public health ethics. I argue that the... moreRecent articles published in this journal have highlighted the shortcomings of individualistic approaches to health promotion, and the potential contributions of relational analyses of autonomy to public health ethics. I argue that the latter helps to elucidate the former, by showing that an inadequate analysis of autonomy leads to misassignment of both forward-looking and backward-looking responsibility for health outcomes. Health promotion programmes predicated on such inadequate analyses are then: ineffective – because they assign responsibility to agents whose social environment inhibits their ability to act on such responsibilities; inequitable – because the social barriers to autonomous agency display a socioeconomic gradient; and stigmatising – because they license blaming of individuals for their own poor health, without taking into account how reasonable it is to hold these individuals responsible, given the social barriers to autonomy they face. I further sketch how incorporating a relational understanding of autonomy could help to produce health promotion programmes that do not succumb to these difficulties, while avoiding coercive paternalism, exploring potential applications in ecological approaches to health promotion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alistair  Wardrope•  3  Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, Personal and Moral AutonomyIs Breast Really Best? Risk and Total Motherhood in the National Breastfeeding Awareness CampaignSave to LibraryDownloadby Joan Wolf•  9  Public Health Ethics, Sociology of Risk, Public Health Policy, RiskMottier, Véronique. ‘Reproductive Rights’, pp.214-235 in Waylen, G., Celis, K, Weldon, L. & J. Kantola  (Eds) The Oxford Handbook of Gender and Politics, Oxford: Oxford University Press.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mottier Véronique•  174  Critical Theory, Engineering, Sociology, Political SociologyMEDICAL RECORDS/STATISTICS UNITSave to LibraryDownloadby Sika Asiedu•  5  Health Informatics, Public Health Ethics, Public Health, Public Health InformaticsBig Pharma and the Problem of Disease InflationOver the course of the past decade, critics have increasingly called attention to the corrosive influence of the pharmaceutical industry on both biomedical research and the practice of medicine. Critics describe the industry's use of... moreOver the course of the past decade, critics have increasingly called attention to the corrosive influence of the pharmaceutical industry on both biomedical research and the practice of medicine. Critics describe the industry's use of ghostwriting and other unethical techniques to expand their markets as evidence that medical science is all-too-frequently subordinated to the goals of corporate profit. While we do not dispute this perspective, we argue that it is imperative to also recognize that the goals of medical science and industry profit are now tightly wed to one another. As a result, medical science now operates to expand disease definitions, lower diagnostic thresholds, and otherwise advance the goals of corporate profit through the redefinition and expansion of what it means to be ill. We suggest that this process has led to a variety of ethical problems that are not fully captured by current critiques of ghostwriting and other troubling practices by the pharmaceutical industry. In our conclusion, we call for physicians, ethicists, and other concerned observers to embrace a more fundamental critique of the relationship between biomedical science and corporate profit.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Gabriel•  7  Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, Public Health, Pharmaceutical industrySyndemic Vulnerability and the Right to Health (The Lancet)Willen, Sarah S., Michael Knipper, César E Abadía-Barrero, & Nadav Davidovitch. 2017. "Syndemic vulnerability and the right to health." The Lancet 389(10072):964-977 Investigators working both in syndemics, a field of applied health... moreWillen, Sarah S., Michael Knipper, César E Abadía-Barrero, & Nadav Davidovitch. 2017. "Syndemic vulnerability and the right to health." The Lancet 389(10072):964-977Investigators working both in syndemics, a field of applied health research with roots in medical anthropology, and in the field of health and human rights recognise that upstream social, political, and structural determinants contribute more to health inequities than do biological factors or personal choices. Syndemics investigates synergistic, often deleterious interactions among comorbid health conditions, especially under circumstances of structural and political adversity. Health and human rights research draws on international law to argue that all people deserve access not only to health care, but also to the underlying determinants of good health. Taking the urgent matter of migrant health as an empirical focus, we juxtapose the fields of syndemics and health and human rights, identify their complementarities, and advocate for a combined approach. By melding insights from these fields, the combined syndemics/health and human rights approach advanced here can provide clinicians and other key stakeholders with concrete insights, tools, and strategies to tackle the health inequities that affect migrants and other vulnerable groups by: (1) mapping the effect of social, political, and structural determinants on health; (2) identifying opportunities for upstream intervention; and (3) working collaboratively to tackle the structures, institutions, and processes that cause and exacerbate health inequities. Undergirding this approach is an egalitarian interpretation of the right to health that differs from narrow legalistic and individual interpretations by insisting that all people are equal in worth and, as a result, equally deserving of protection from syndemic vulnerability.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah S Willen•  22  Medical Anthropology, Human Rights, Social Justice, Critical Medical AnthropologyMindfulness-based stress reduction for people with chronic diseasesSave to LibraryDownloadby Monika Merkes•  7  Public Health Nutrition, Primary Health Care, Public Health Ethics, Public Health PolicyWhat Should We Eat? Biopolitics, Ethics, and Nutritional ScientismPublic health advocates, government agencies, and commercial organizations increasingly use nutritional science to guide food choice and diet as a way of promoting health, preventing disease or marketing products..We argue that in many... morePublic health advocates, government agencies, and commercial organizations increasingly use nutritional science to guide food choice and diet as a way of promoting health, preventing disease or marketing products..We argue that in many instances such references to nutritional science can be characterized as nutritional scientism. We examine three manifestations of nutritional scientism: (1) the simplification of complex science to increase the persuasiveness of dietary guidance, (2) superficial and honorific references to science in order to justify cultural or ideological views about food and health, or (3) the presumption that nutrition is the primary value of food. This paper examines these forms of nutritional scientism in the context of biopolitics to address bioethical concerns related to the misuse of scientific evidence to make claims regarding the affect of diet on health. We argue that nutritional scientism has ethical implications (i) for individual responsibility and freedom, (ii) concerning iatrogenic harm, and (iii) for well-being.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Mayes•  12  Nutrition and Dietetics, Philosophy of Science, Bioethics, NutritionIntroduction to the Special Issue "Migration, 'Illegality,' and Health: Mapping Embodied Vulnerability and Debating Health-Related Deservingness"Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah S Willen•  24  Anthropology, Medical Anthropology, Human Rights, MigrationTRABAJO PRÁCTICO ÉTICA Y GCPBioética, buenas prácticas clínicas en la investigación y normativa aplicable. A propósito del análisis de un casoSave to LibraryDownloadby Rolando Pinchetti•  7  Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, Buenas prácticas, ICH/GCP"First, do no harm"? Non-maleficence, population health and the ethics of riskThis is a pre-proof version of a paper, co-authored with Joseph Wu, forthcoming in Social Theory and Practice Screening for asymptomatic disease is a routine aspect of contemporary public health practice. However, it is also... moreThis is a pre-proof version of a paper, co-authored with Joseph Wu, forthcoming in Social Theory and PracticeScreening for asymptomatic disease is a routine aspect of contemporary public health practice. However, it is also controversial, because it leads to overdiagnosis and overtreatment, with many arguing that programmes are "ineffective", i.e. the "costs" outweigh the "benefits". This paper explores a more fundamental objection to screening programmes: that, even if they are effective, they are ethically impermissible because they breach the principle of non-maleficence. In so doing, it suggests a new approach to the ethics of risk, justifying a concern with how policies affect individuals' absolute ex-ante prospects. Part 1 sets up the tension between screening and non-maleficence. Part 2 introduces and motivates a novel interpretation of the non-maleficence principle, "ex-ante Do No Harm", which resolves this tension. Part 3 defends and clarifies this principle by discussing its relationship to the ex-ante Pareto principle. Part 4 discusses the worry that risk estimates are too "subjective".Save to LibraryDownloadby Stephen John•  6  Philosophy, Public Health Ethics, Screening, Biomedical EthicsCONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION TO VACCINATIONVaccine refusal occurs for a variety of reasons. In this article we examine vaccine refusals that are made on conscientious grounds; that is, for religious , moral, or philosophical reasons. We focus on two questions: first, whether... moreVaccine refusal occurs for a variety of reasons. In this article we examine vaccine refusals that are made on conscientious grounds; that is, for religious , moral, or philosophical reasons. We focus on two questions: first, whether people should be entitled to conscientiously object to vaccination against contagious diseases (either for themselves or for their children); second , if so, to what constraints or requirements should conscientious objection (CO) to vaccination be subject. To address these questions, we consider an analogy between CO to vaccination and CO to military service. We argue that conscientious objectors to vaccination should make an appropriate contribution to society in lieu of being vaccinated. The contribution to be made will depend on the severity of the relevant disease(s), its morbidity, and also the likelihood that vaccine refusal will lead to harm. In particular, the contribution required will depend on whether the rate of CO in a given population threatens herd immunity to the disease in question: for severe or highly contagious diseases, if the population rate of CO becomes high enough to threaten herd immunity, the requirements for CO could become so onerous that CO, though in principle permissible, would be de facto impermissible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Steve Clarke•  8  Public Health Ethics, Population Health, Conscience, Public HealthProgram Proposal: OMG! Obesity Must Go!This paper presents a proposal for OMG! Obesity Must Go! (OMG!), an employee assistance program (EAP) to be implemented at Thereyouare University (TU), a large university located in Arkansas, one of the top five states for obesity in the... moreThis paper presents a proposal for OMG! Obesity Must Go! (OMG!), an employee assistance program (EAP) to be implemented at Thereyouare University (TU), a large university located in Arkansas, one of the top five states for obesity in the United States.  It is intended for consideration by TU’s initial hiring entity, which is composed of the human resources and finance departments, the occupational health, labor/management, and leadership staff; and all entities within the EAP and health promotion communities. The mission of the OMG! program is to educate, inform, and raise the awareness of obesity and its impact on health, to encourage and empower employees to lead healthier, more meaningful lives; and to substantially improve the identified health outcomes by reducing the percent overweight by 5 points in the first year, reducing cholesterol and blood pressure levels, and providing a healthier environment for all.Save to LibraryDownloadby Goddess Dr. Myrna-Elois Washington•  32  Psychology, Organizational Psychology, Social Psychology, Health PsychologyAfter the Wrath of God: AIDS, Sexuality, and American Religion (Intro)"After the Wrath of God is a subtle, discerning analysis of religious responses to AIDS that goes far beyond the usual attention to the Christian Right. Petro brings ecumenical Protestants, Roman Catholics, biomedical officials, and ACT... more"After the Wrath of God is a subtle, discerning analysis of religious responses to AIDS that goes far beyond the usual attention to the Christian Right. Petro brings ecumenical Protestants, Roman Catholics, biomedical officials, and ACT UP protestors into view alongside their evangelical compatriots and in doing so creates a richly polychromatic picture of American religion, sexuality, and moral debate in the wake of the AIDS epidemic." --Leigh Eric Schmidt, Edward C. Mallinckrodt Distinguished University Professor, Washington University in St. Louis  "The AIDS crisis was not an epoch that we survived. It is a battle that we are still fighting. In this remarkable work of historical intervention Anthony Petro explores the extraordinary religious ferment that accompanied the emergence of AIDS in the United States. Petro shows that when Americans talk about AIDS they are rarely just talking about a scientific problem or a pharmaceutical solution. They are instead offering a sociology of suffering and a plan for spiritual warfare. After the Wrath of God is required reading for anyone interested in the way this powerful religious past will shape our political future." --Kathryn Lofton, Professor of Religious Studies, American Studies, History and Divinity; Chair, Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies, Yale University  "Anthony Petro's novel account of the role of American Christianity in the AIDS crisis moves beyond expected narratives of the rise of the right to encompass a diversity of religious responses across the 'long 1980s.' Illuminating and important." --Margot Canaday, Associate Professor of History, Princeton UniversitySave to LibraryDownloadby Anthony Petro•  70  Critical Theory, History, American History, Cultural HistoryRisk and PrecautionSave to LibraryDownloadby Stephen John•  2  Public Health Ethics, Philosophy of riskThe Onlife Manifesto - Being Human in a Hyperconnected Era- Result of “the Onlife Initiative,” a one-year project funded by the European Commission to study the deployment of ICTs and its effects on the human condition - Inspires reflection on the ways in which a hyperconnected world forces the... more- Result of “the Onlife Initiative,” a one-year project funded by the European Commission to study the deployment of ICTs and its effects on the human condition - Inspires reflection on the ways in which a hyperconnected world forces the rethinking of the conceptual frameworks on which policies are built- Draws upon the work of a group of scholars from a wide range of disciplines including, anthropology, cognitive science, computer science, law, philosophy, political scienceWhat is the impact of information and communication technologies (ICTs) on the human condition? In order to address this question, in 2012 the European Commission organized a research project entitled The Onlife Initiative: concept reengineering for rethinking societal concerns in the digital transition. This volume collects the work of the Onlife Initiative. It explores how the development and widespread use of ICTs have a radical impact on the human condition.ICTs are not mere tools but rather social forces that are increasingly affecting our self-conception (who we are), our mutual interactions (how we socialise); our conception of reality (our metaphysics); and our interactions with reality (our agency). In each case, ICTs have a huge ethical, legal, and political significance, yet one with which we have begun to come to terms only recently.The impact exercised by ICTs is due to at least four major transformations: the blurring of the distinction between reality and virtuality; the blurring of the distinction between human, machine and nature; the reversal from information scarcity to information abundance; and the shift from the primacy of stand-alone things, properties, and binary relations, to the primacy of interactions, processes and networks.Such transformations are testing the foundations of our conceptual frameworks. Our current conceptual toolbox is no longer fitted to address new ICT-related challenges. This is not only a problem in itself. It is also a risk, because the lack of a clear understanding of our present time may easily lead to negative projections about the future. The goal of The Manifesto, and of the whole book that contextualises, is therefore that of contributing to the update of our philosophy. It is a constructive goal. The book is meant to be a positive contribution to rethinking the philosophy on which policies are built in a hyperconnected world, so that we may have a better chance of understanding our ICT-related problems and solving them satisfactorily.The Manifesto launches an open debate on the impacts of ICTs on public spaces, politics and societal expectations toward policymaking in the Digital Agenda for Europe’s remit. More broadly, it helps start a reflection on the way in which a hyperconnected world calls for rethinking the referential frameworks on which policies are built.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luciano Floridi•  142  Information Systems, Business Ethics, Computer Science, Information ScienceWHAT IS CRITICAL ETHICS AND WHY IT MATTERSCritical Ethics (as a unified account of normative and meta-ethics) uses critical thinking to get around the limitations of personal belief and indoctrination to get to what ought to be done and why to improve the human condition. For,... moreCritical Ethics (as a unified account of normative and meta-ethics) uses critical thinking to get around the limitations of personal belief and indoctrination to get to what ought to be done and why to improve the human condition.  For, if we teach only moral beliefs (whether as a set of absolutistic or relativistic normative codes)—no matter how useful and even inspiring they may be to a particular culture or community—the adherent will have a hard time distinguishing, or simply may not be able to distinguish, good from bad as an act of personal responsibility and free choice.  Moreover, without critical thinking the adherent could possibly end-up believing all kinds of false or inconsistent things and moral beliefs may well end-up in conflict with better established background information. This would very likely lead to cognitive dissonance and inconsistency in a person’s actions; and, when generalized, would have devastating consequences for the survival of the human species because a person’s beliefs would not align ormatch with (at times dangerous) reality. Accordingly, it is crucial that we learn how to evaluate and to select among alternatives to do the thing that must be done, when it ought to be done, using critical thinking.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Isidoro Talavera•  20  Business Ethics, Philosophy, Ethics, EpistemologyShame, Seduction, and Character in Food Messaging (Oxford Handbook of Food Ethics, Oxford University Press 2017)In this essay, I explore the rhetorical and ethical structure of our public communications and representations concerning food, eating, health, and obesity, which I will shorten to " food messaging. " We are surrounded by such food... moreIn this essay, I explore the rhetorical and ethical structure of our public communications and representations concerning food, eating, health, and obesity, which I will shorten to " food messaging. " We are surrounded by such food messaging, from formal Public Service Announcements (PSAs) designed to stem the " obesity epidemic, " to material concerning a wide variety of diets that supposedly come with ethical or health benefits, to the kind of informal messaging around norms of food, bodies, and eating that permeate our experience online and in other media. While much of health communication ethics focuses exclusively on PSAs and other formal missives, it is a central methodolog-ical principle for me that we should attend to the entire communicative and represen-tational environment in which people find themselves. Formal health communication only has its force and meaning in relationship to the rest of the food messaging around us— in blog posts, advertisements, online quizzes, music videos, and so forth. I see no evidence that as consumers of food messages, we single out formal communications and take them as having special or isolatable force. Rather, we receive them as parts of holis-tic meaning-and communication-rich environments. I will explore this holistic picture: What kinds of norms of eating, body weight, and health are communicated to us as we move through social space and how? What do these communicative transactions actually achieve, and when might they threaten or preserve autonomy, self-esteem, and well-being? As we will see, the dominant mode of food messaging holds individuals accountable for making " lifestyle " choices that keep them thin and healthy, and shames those who fail to do so. Yet voluminous evidence repeatedly supports the conclusion that food choices are elaborately determined, and that the causal relationships between eating practices, weight, and health are endlessly complex. Fat and ill health are notSave to LibraryDownloadby Quill Kukla•  5  Health Communication, Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, Louis AlthusserCOVID-19 vaccines, public health goods and Catholic social teaching: Why justice must prevail over charity in the global vaccine distributionApplying the Roman Catholic Church’s set of moral principles on social concerns called Catholic social teaching (CST) on charity, distributive justice, private property and the common good, and utilising some secondary data and scientific... moreApplying the Roman Catholic Church’s set of moral principles on social concerns called Catholic social teaching (CST) on charity, distributive justice, private property and the common good, and utilising some secondary data and scientific literature, this article argues that establishing distributive justice for the global distribution of the COVID-19 vaccines must be a priority than donating millions of doses in the name of charity to address vaccine scarcity. Catholic social teaching teaches that the right to private property is a basic right but has moral limits and is subordinated to the moral principles on the universal destination of earth’s goods and the common good. Contribution: The current COVID-19 vaccines are developed by people and organisations outside the pharmaceutical companies and largely funded using taxpayers’ money. Thus, by virtue of justice, these vaccines must belong to all nations as global public health goods. Patents are to be suspended to allow poor countries to reproduce the popular vaccines and address the current vaccine shortage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Vivencio (Ven)  Ballano•  20  Sociology, Ethics, Social Justice, Public Health EthicsSocial EthicsThe ethical values and behaviors are not only abstract terms, but they are refined and conceptualized by real life experiences. The societal context where the actions of humans can be analyzed by ethical decision-making is entirely... moreThe ethical values and behaviors are not only abstract terms, but they are refined and conceptualized by real life experiences. The societal context where the actions of humans can be analyzed by ethical decision-making is entirely relevant to deliberate on what is the right thing to do, and what the moral agent should do, since the ethical values and principles response to the actual practices of life and to the needs of humans in the society. This elaboration takes us to the realm of social ethics.This article reviews the definition and contextual meaning of social ethics at a broader level by giving special emphasis to the ethical theories and principles, focusing on the societal and public setting. Ethics will be deliberated with social and community aspects. Based on the principle of justice and public health ethics, the concept of social ethics has been investigated concisely through the relationship between man, as a moral person, and the society in exemplification of the issues of healthcare ethics. It is argued that the tension between individualism and communitarian needs can be reconciled with the perspective of social ethics by respecting the individual autonomy without disregarding the common good and social justice. By promoting the values of social responsibility, solidarity, social utility, social ethics has been proposed as the basis of a rational, moral, egalitarian, pluralistic, democratic society rising on the pillars of human rights and human dignity. Keywords Ethics, ethical theories, ethical principles, beneficence, non-maleficence, autonomy, justice, common good, distributive justice, equality, individual freedom, public health ethics, public reason, social rights, social utility, solidarity, social responsibility.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yesim Isil Ulman•  15  Ethics, Social Sciences, Bioethics, Corporate Social ResponsibilityALCOHOL, HEALTH, AND REPRODUCTIONThis article analyzes two recent Swedish public health campaigns targeting pregnant women’s drinking: A good start, a pamphlet by the Swedish National Institute of Public Health, and Advice about food for you who are pregnant, a brochure... moreThis article analyzes two recent Swedish public health campaigns targeting pregnant women’s drinking: A good start, a pamphlet by the Swedish National Institute of Public Health, and Advice about food for you who are pregnant, a brochure by the Swedish National Food Administration. It conceptualizes the public health campaigns as governmental attempts to steer citizens’ behavior and behavior-related desires, aspirations, and beliefs toward a certain understanding of normal healthy lifestyle. The public health campaigns are seen as part of larger processes of bio-power. By applying critical discourse analysis, the article, first, asks how drinking during pregnancy is represented in the campaigns as a health risk. Second, it analyses how the pamphlets advise women to take actionto restrain from drinking during pregnancy and what kind of knowledge the pamphlets use to legitimate intervening in the women’s lifestyles. And finally, it analyses how the pamphlets try to persuade the women to identify with the proposed information and recommendations. The analysis shows that the campaigns construct an intimate partnership betweenthe state and the citizen. By extending the medical public health gaze to reach inside the female body to emphasize how easily fetal development can be disturbed, and by making women’s individual lifestyle choices both the cause of and solution to potential damage during fetal development, the pamphlets make mothers solely responsible and culpable for the health status of the fetus. Partners and fathers are practically absent from the campaign pamphlets. Both campaigns bypass the responsibilities of communities and other broad social institutions in preventing drinking during pregnancy. The campaigns, though having many similarities, differ from each other in terms of the kinds of choices they have made in representations, action, and identification.  KEYWORDSpublic health campaigns; drinking; advice to pregnant women;governmentality studies; critical discourse analysisSave to LibraryDownloadby Jukka Törrönen and +1Kalle Tryggvesson•  28  Critical Theory, Discourse Analysis, Semiotics, SociologyDoes science support infant circumcision?According to Brian Morris (2013), “Science supports infant circumcision” and “so should skeptics.” It would be more accurate to say that ‘Brian Morris supports infant circumcision,’ and that skeptics can think for themselves. In this... moreAccording to Brian Morris (2013), “Science supports infant circumcision” and “so should skeptics.” It would be more accurate to say that ‘Brian Morris supports infant circumcision,’ and that skeptics can think for themselves. In this paper, we critically assess the arguments and evidence presented by Morris in his recent article, and draw some general lessons for the ongoing debate about the science and ethics of infant male circumcision.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brian D. Earp•  189  Religion, Comparative Religion, History, American HistoryNextLast »Related TopicsCOMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENTFollowFollowingDrug Regulatory AffairsFollowFollowingDrug developmentFollowFollowingBioethicsFollowFollowingPublic HealthFollowFollowingPublic Health PolicyFollowFollowingMedical EthicsFollowFollowingResearch EthicsFollowFollowingApplied EthicsFollowFollowingGlobal HealthFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023