BBC NEWS | Entertainment | Floyd 'true to Barrett's legacy'
HomeNewsSportRadioTVWeatherLanguages

[an error occurred while processing this directive]
Low graphics|Accessibility help

One-Minute World News
News services
Your news when you want it
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Arts & Culture
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
RELATED BBC SITES
SPORT
WEATHER
ON THIS DAY
EDITORS' BLOG
Last Updated: Tuesday, 11 July 2006, 19:16 GMT 20:16 UK

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            

Floyd 'true to Barrett's legacy'
Mental health problems were blamed on drug use
When Pink Floyd released their career retrospective Echoes in 2001, almost one fifth of the songs were written by Syd Barrett despite his having left the band more than three decades earlier.

He was the band's co-founder and initially its undisputed leader and principal songwriter - he even came up with the name, reportedly inspired by US bluesmen Pink Anderson and Floyd Council.

But he departed the group while battling mental illness after just one album, The Piper At The Gates Of Dawn, which he had largely written. 

When Pink Floyd achieved global stardom in 1973 with Dark Side Of The Moon, Barrett was living as a recluse - as he continued to do for the rest of his life.

He was long gone as Pink Floyd amassed more than 200 million album sales throughout their career.

And it is not known whether he was aware of the band's highly-trumpeted stage reunion, after more than 20 years, at last year's Live 8 concert in London.
'Barrett's image'

But BBC Radio 2 DJ Bob Harris says: "I truly believe that the spirit of Syd Barrett has always lived in Pink Floyd and what they do."

Tim Willis, author of the Barrett biography Madcap, agrees. 

In those first three years Pink Floyd were "crafted in [Barrett's] image", Willis has written, "and they never quite put him out of their minds."
Remember when you were young, you shone like the sun
 
Lyrics from Shine On You Crazy Diamond, Pink Floyd's eulogy to Syd Barrett

    



Harris witnessed early performances by Pink Floyd in London in 1966, and believes that Barrett was the creative force as the band evolved its radical, psychedelic style with extended, improvised sets and highly visual lightshows.

"In many ways they have been true to the legacy ever since," says Harris.

The decades of music that followed, including commercial highpoint Dark Side Of The Moon, had their "foundation stones in the work that Syd Barrett did with Pink Floyd in '66 and '67", says Harris.

He adds: "A Pink Floyd album now sounds much more finished and smooth than it did then, but the creative forces that are informing it are much the same.

"It's just a sophisticated version of what they were doing then."

Crazy diamond
In a statement following the announcement of Barrett's death, Pink Floyd themselves acknowledge their former colleague was "the guiding light of the early band line-up and leaves a legacy which continues to inspire".

But perhaps 1975's Wish You Were Here album offers a more suitably cryptic and poetic tribute to Barrett.

"Remember when you were young, you shone like the sun. Shine on you crazy diamond.
Now there's a look in your eyes, like black holes in the sky. Shine on you crazy diamond."

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            
SYD BARRETT 1946-2006
Shaping the '60s
Early Pink Floyd producer on working with Syd Barrett
Pink Floyd's Barrett dies aged 60
Obituary: Syd Barrett
BACKGROUND
Pink Floyd's ups and downs
Floyd 'true to Barrett's legacy'
Making the sound of the '60s
Medical notes: Diabetes
HAVE YOUR SAY
'In one album he defined the Sixties'
Syd Barrett: Your comments
TOP ENTERTAINMENT STORIES
U2 reschedule US and Canada dates
Cheryl 'on the mend' says Simon Cowell
Zsa Zsa Gabor taken to hospital
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
Tourists flock to 'Jesus's tomb' in Kashmir
Most popular now, in detail
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail



FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS

Ghost town




Has China's housing bubble burst?



The guerilla plant 




How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire



Walking away




Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit



Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC Copyright NoticeMMIX
Most Popular Now | 17,029 pages were read in the last minute.";
Back to top ^^
Help
Privacy and cookies policy
News sources
About the BBC
Contact us