Guarani language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Political status
2Writing system
3Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
3.1Consonants
3.2Glottal stop
3.3Vowels
3.3.1Nasal harmony
4Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
4.1Nouns
4.2Pronouns
4.3Conjugation
4.3.1Negation
4.4Tense and aspect morphemes
4.5Other verbal morphemes
5Determiners
6Spanish loans in Guarani
7Guarani loans in English
8Example text
9Literature
10Institutions
11See also
12Bibliography
13Sources
14Further reading
15External links
Toggle External links subsection
15.1Resources
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Guarani language
104 languages
AfrikaansअंगिकाÆngliscالعربيةAsturianuAvañe'ẽAymar aruAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяBikol CentralБългарскиབོད་ཡིགBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschDolnoserbskiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGàidhligGalego한국어हिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаКомиКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपाल भाषा日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaqbaylitТатарча / tatarçaTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtWalon吴语粵語Žemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsMultilingual WikisourceWikibooks
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Tupian language of Paraguay, Argentina, Brazil and Bolivia
This article is about the Paraguayan language. For other varieties of Guarani, see Guarani dialects.
Not to be confused with the Kurdish-Iranian Gurani language.
This article or section should specify the language of its non-English content, using {{lang}}, {{transliteration}} for transliterated languages, and {{IPA}} for phonetic transcriptions, with an appropriate ISO 639 code. Wikipedia's multilingual support templates may also be used. See why. (November 2019)
GuaraníParaguayan GuaraniavañeʼẽPronunciation[ʔãʋãɲẽˈʔẽ]Native toParaguay, Bolivia, Argentina, BrazilEthnicityGuaraníNative speakers6.5 million (2020)[1]Language familyTupian
Tupi–GuaraniGuarani (I)GuaraníGuaraníDialects
Jopará
Correntino
Simba
Chawuncu
Tsiripá
Mbyá
Writing systemGuarani alphabet (Latin script)Official statusOfficial language in Paraguay   Bolivia   Argentina (Corrientes Province)[2]  MercosurRegulated byAcademia de la Lengua Guaraní (Avañeʼẽ Rerekuapavẽ)Language codesISO 639-1gnISO 639-2grnISO 639-3gugGlottologpara1311Linguasphere88-AAI-fGuarani-speaking world[image reference needed]This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
A Guarani speaker.
Books in Guarani
Guaraní (/ˌɡwɑːrəˈniː, ˈɡwɑːrəni/),[3] specifically the primary variety known as Paraguayan Guarani (avañeʼẽ [ʔãʋãɲẽˈʔẽ] "the people's language"), is a South American language that belongs to the Tupi–Guarani family[4] of the Tupian languages. It is one of the official languages of Paraguay (along with Spanish), where it is spoken by the majority of the population, and where half of the rural population are monolingual speakers of the language.[5][6]
The language is spoken by communities in neighboring countries including parts of northeastern Argentina, southeastern Bolivia and southwestern Brazil, and is a second official language of the Argentine province of Corrientes since 2004.[7][8] Guarani is also one of the three official languages of Mercosur, alongside Spanish and Portuguese.[9]
Guarani is the most widely spoken American language and remains commonly used among the Paraguayan people and neighboring communities. This is unique among American languages; language shift towards European colonial languages (in this case, the other official language of Spanish) has otherwise been a nearly universal phenomenon in the Western Hemisphere, but Paraguayans have maintained their traditional language while also adopting Spanish.
Jesuit priest Antonio Ruiz de Montoya, who in 1639 published the first written grammar of Guarani in a book called Tesoro de la lengua guaraní (Treasure of the Guarani Language /  The Guarani Language Thesaurus), described it as a language "so copious and elegant that it can compete with the most famous [of languages]".
The name "Guarani" is generally used for the official language of Paraguay. However, this is part of a dialect chain, most of whose components are also often called Guarani.
History[edit]
While Guarani, in its Classical form, was the only language spoken in the expansive missionary territories, Paraguayan Guaraní has its roots outside of the Jesuit Reductions.
Modern scholarship has shown that Guarani was always the primary language of colonial Paraguay, both inside and outside the reductions. Following the expulsion of the Jesuits in the 18th century, the residents of the reductions gradually migrated north and west towards Asunción, a demographic shift that brought about a decidedly one-sided shift away from the Jesuit dialect that the missionaries had curated in the southern and eastern territories of the colony.[10][11]
By and large, the Guaraní of the Jesuits shied away from direct phonological loans from Spanish. Instead, the missionaries relied on the agglutinative nature of the language to formulate calque terms from native morphemes. This process often led the Jesuits to employ complicated, highly synthetic terms to convey Western concepts.[12] By contrast, the Guarani spoken outside of the missions was characterized by a free, unregulated flow of Hispanicisms; frequently, Spanish words and phrases were simply incorporated into Guarani with minimal phonological adaptation.
A good example of that phenomenon is found in the word "communion". The Jesuits, using their agglutinative strategy, rendered this word "Tupârahava", a calque based on the word "Tupâ", meaning God.[13] In modern Paraguayan Guaraní, the same word is rendered "komuño".[14]
Following the out-migration from the reductions, these two distinct dialects of Guarani came into extensive contact for the first time. The vast majority of speakers abandoned the less colloquial, highly regulated Jesuit variant in favor of the variety that evolved from actual use by speakers in Paraguay.[15] This contemporary form of spoken Guaraní is known as Jopará, meaning "mixture" in Guarani.
Political status[edit]
A government sign in Asunción, Paraguay; bilingual in Guaraní and Spanish
Geographical distribution of Guarani language by official status
See also: Languages of Paraguay
Widely spoken, Paraguayan Guaraní has nevertheless been repressed by Paraguayan governments throughout most of its history since independence. It was prohibited in state schools for over 100 years. However, populists often used pride in the language to excite nationalistic fervor and promote a narrative of social unity.
During the autocratic regime of Alfredo Stroessner, his Colorado Party used the language to appeal to common Paraguayans although Stroessner himself never gave an address in Guaraní.[16] Upon the advent of Paraguayan democracy in 1992, Guarani was established in the new constitution as a language equal to Spanish.[17]
Jopará, the mixture of Spanish and Guaraní, is spoken by an estimated 90% of the population of Paraguay. Code-switching between the two languages takes place on a spectrum in which more Spanish is used for official and business-related matters, and more Guarani is used in art and in everyday life.[18]
Guarani is also an official language of Bolivia and of Corrientes Province in Argentina.
Writing system[edit]
Main article: Guarani alphabet
The Lord's Prayer in Guarani in the Church of the Pater Noster in Jerusalem.
Guarani became a written language relatively recently. Its modern alphabet is basically a subset of the Latin script (with "J", "K" and "Y" but not "W"), complemented with two diacritics and six digraphs. Its orthography is largely phonemic, with letter values mostly similar to those of Spanish. The tilde is used with many letters that are considered part of the alphabet. In the case of Ñ/ñ, it differentiates the palatal nasal from the alveolar nasal (as in Spanish), whereas it marks stressed nasalisation when used over a vowel (as in Portuguese): ã, ẽ, ĩ, õ, ũ, ỹ. (Nasal vowels have been written with several other diacritics: ä, ā, â, ã.) The tilde also marks nasality in the case of G̃/g̃, used to represent the nasalized velar approximant by combining the velar approximant "G" with the nasalising tilde. The letter G̃/g̃, which is unique to this language, was introduced into the orthography relatively recently during the mid-20th century and there is disagreement over its use. It is not a precomposed character in Unicode, which can cause typographic inconveniences – such as needing to press "delete" twice in some setups – or imperfect rendering when using computers and fonts that do not properly support the complex layout feature of glyph composition.
Only stressed nasal vowels are written as nasal. If an oral vowel is stressed, and it is not the final syllable, it is marked with an acute accent: á, é, í, ó, ú, ý. That is, stress falls on the vowel marked as nasalized, if any, else on the accent-marked syllable, and if neither appears, then on the final syllable.
For blind people there is also a Guarani Braille.
Phonology[edit]
Guarani syllables consist of a consonant plus a vowel or a vowel alone; syllables ending in a consonant or two or more consonants together do not occur. This is represented as (C)V.
In the below table, the IPA value is shown.  The orthography is shown in angle brackets below, if different.
Consonants[edit]
Guarani consonants[19]
Labial
Alveolar
Alveolo-palatal
Velar
Glottal
plain
lab.
Nasal
ᵐb~m⟨mb~m⟩
ⁿd~n⟨nd~n⟩
ᵈj~ɲ⟨j~ñ⟩
ᵑɡ~ŋ⟨ng⟩
ᵑɡʷ~ŋʷ⟨ngu⟩
Stop
Voiced
Voiceless
p
t
k
kʷ ⟨ku⟩
ʔ ⟨ʼ⟩
Fricative
s
ɕ ⟨ch⟩
x ~ h ⟨h⟩
Approximant
ʋ ⟨v⟩
ɰ ~ ɰ̃⟨g⟩ ~ ⟨g̃⟩
w ~ w̃⟨gu⟩ ~ ⟨g̃u⟩
Flap
ɾ ⟨r⟩
The voiced consonants have oral allophones (left) before oral vowels, and nasal allophones (right) before nasal vowels. The oral allophones of the voiced stops are prenasalized.
There is also a sequence /ⁿt/ (written ⟨nt⟩). A trill /r/ (written ⟨rr⟩), and the consonants /l/, /f/, and /j/ (written ⟨ll⟩) are not native to Guarani, but come from Spanish.
Oral /ᵈj/ is often pronounced [dʒ], [ɟ], [ʒ], [j], depending on the dialect, but the nasal allophone is always [ɲ].
The dorsal fricative is in free variation between [x] and [h].
⟨g⟩, ⟨gu⟩ are approximants, not fricatives, but are sometimes transcribed [ɣ], [ɣʷ], as is conventional for Spanish. ⟨gu⟩ is also transcribed [ɰʷ], which is essentially identical to [w].
All syllables are open, viz. CV or V, ending in a vowel.
Glottal stop[edit]
The glottal stop, called 'puso' in Guarani, is only written between vowels, but occurs phonetically before vowel-initial words. Because of this, Ayala (2000:19) shows that some words have several glottal stops near each other, which consequently undergo a number of different dissimilation techniques. For example, "I drink water" ʼaʼyʼu is pronounced hayʼu. This suggests that irregularity in verb forms derives from regular sound change processes in the history of Guarani. There also seems to be some degree of variation between how much the glottal stop is dropped (for example aruʼuka > aruuka > aruka for "I bring"). It is possible that word-internal glottal stops may have been retained from fossilized compounds where the second component was a vowel-initial (and therefore glottal stop–initial) root.[20]: 19 
Vowels[edit]
/a/, /e/, /i/, /o/, /u/ correspond more or less to the Spanish and IPA equivalents, although sometimes the open-mid allophones [ɛ], [ɔ] are used more frequently. The grapheme ⟨y⟩ represents the vowel /ɨ/ (as in Polish). Considering nasality, the vowel system is perfectly symmetrical, each oral vowel having its nasal counterpart (most systems with nasals have fewer nasals than orals).
Oral and nasal vowels
Front
Central
Back
Close
oral
i ⟨i⟩
ɨ ⟨y⟩
u ⟨u⟩
nasal
ĩ ⟨ĩ⟩
ɨ̃ ⟨ỹ⟩
ũ ⟨ũ⟩
Open
oral
e ⟨e⟩
a ⟨a⟩
o ⟨o⟩
nasal
ẽ ⟨ẽ⟩
ã ⟨ã⟩
õ ⟨õ⟩
Nasal harmony[edit]
Guarani displays an unusual degree of nasal harmony. A nasal syllable consists of a nasal vowel, and if the consonant is voiced, it takes its nasal allophone. If a stressed syllable is nasal, the nasality spreads in both directions until it bumps up against a stressed syllable that is oral. This includes affixes, postpositions, and compounding. Voiceless consonants do not have nasal allophones, but they do not interrupt the spread of nasality.
For example,
/ⁿdo+ɾoi+ⁿduˈpã+i/ → [nõɾ̃õĩnũˈpãĩ]
/ro+ᵐbo+poˈrã/ → [ɾ̃õmõpõˈɾ̃ã]
However, a second stressed syllable, with an oral vowel, will not become nasalized:
/iᵈjaˈkãɾaˈku/ → [ʔĩɲãˈkãɾ̃ãˈku]
/aˈkãɾaˈwe/ → [ʔãˈkãɾ̃ãˈwe][21]
That is, for a word with a single stressed vowel, all voiced segments will be either oral or nasal, while voiceless consonants are unaffected, as in oral /ᵐbotɨ/ vs nasal /mõtɨ̃/.
Grammar[edit]
Guaraní is a highly agglutinative language, often classified as polysynthetic. It is a fluid-S type active language, and it has been classified as a 6th class language in Milewski's typology. It uses subject–verb–object (SVO) word order usually, but object–verb when the subject is not specified.[22]
The language lacks gender and has no native definite article but, due to influence from Spanish, la is used as a definite article for singular reference and lo  for plural reference. These are not found in Classical Guarani (Guaraniete).
Nouns[edit]
Guarani exhibits nominal tense: past, expressed with -kue, and future, expressed with -rã. For example, tetã ruvichakue translates to "ex-president" while tetã ruvicharã translates to "president-elect." The past morpheme -kue is often translated as "ex-", "former", "abandoned", "what was once", or "one-time". These morphemes can even be combined to express the idea of something that was going to be but did not end up happening. So for example, paʼirãgue is "a person who studied to be a priest but didn't actually finish", or rather, "the ex-future priest". Some nouns use -re instead of -kue and others use -guã instead of -rã.[23]
Pronouns[edit]
Guarani distinguishes between inclusive and exclusive pronouns of the first person plural.
singular
plural
1st person
inclusive
che
ñande
exclusive
ore
2nd person
nde
peẽ
3rd person
haʼe
haʼekuéra/ hikuái (*)
Hikuái is a Post-verbal pronoun (oHecha hikuái – they see )
Reflexive pronoun: je: ahecha ("I look"), ajehecha ("I look at myself")
Conjugation[edit]
Guarani stems can be divided into a number of conjugation classes, which are called areal (with the subclass aireal) and chendal.  The names for these classes stem from the names of the prefixes for 1st and 2nd person singular.
The areal conjugation is used to convey that the participant is actively involved, whereas the chendal conjugation is used to convey that the participant is the undergoer. However, the areal conjugation is also used if an intransitive verb expresses an event as opposed to a state, for example manó 'die', and even with a verb such as ké 'sleep'. In addition, all borrowed Spanish verbs are adopted as areal as opposed to borrowed adjectives, which take chendal.[24] Note that intransitive verbs can take either conjugation, transitive verbs normally take areal, but can take chendal for habitual readings. Nouns can also be conjugated, but only as chendal. This conveys a predicative possessive reading.[25]
Furthermore, the conjugations vary slightly according to the stem being oral or nasal.
pronoun
areal
aireal
chendal
walk (oral)
speak (nasal)
use
be big
che
a-guata
a-ñeʼẽ
ai-puru
che-tuicha
ñande
ja-guata
ña-ñeʼẽ
jai-puru
ñande-tuicha
ore
ro-guata
ro-ñeʼẽ
roi-puru
ore-tuicha
nde
re-guata
re-ñeʼẽ
rei-puru
nde-tuicha
peẽ
pe-guata
pe-ñeʼẽ
pei-puru
pende-tuicha
haʼe(kuéra)
o-guata
o-ñeʼẽ
oi-puru
i-tuicha
Negation[edit]
Negation is indicated by a circumfix n(d)(V)-...-(r)i in Guarani. The preverbal portion of the circumfix is nd- for oral bases and n- for nasal bases. For 2nd person singular, an epenthetic e is inserted before the base, for 1st person plural inclusive, an epenthetic a is inserted.
The postverbal portion is -ri for bases ending in -i, and -i for all others. However, in spoken Guarani, the -ri portion of the circumfix is frequently omitted for bases ending in -i.
Oral verb
japo (do, make)
Nasal verb
kororõ (roar, snore)
With ending in "i"
jupi (go up, rise)
nd-ajapó-i
n-akororõ-i
nd-ajupí-ri
nde-rejapó-i
ne-rekororõ-i
nde-rejupí-ri
nd-ojapó-i
n-okororõ-i
nd-ojupí-ri
nda-jajapó-i
na-ñakororõ-i
nda-jajupí-ri
nd-orojapó-i
n-orokororõ-i
nd-orojupí-ri
nda-pejapó-i
na-pekororõ-i
nda-pejupí-ri
nd-ojapó-i
n-okororõ-i
nd-ojupí-ri
The negation can be used in all tenses, but for future or irrealis reference, the normal tense marking is replaced by moʼã, resulting in n(d)(V)-base-moʼã-i as in Ndajapomoʼãi, "I won't do it".
There are also other negatives, such as: ani, ỹhỹ, nahániri, naumbre, naʼanga.
Tense and aspect morphemes[edit]
-ramo: marks extreme proximity of the action, often translating to "just barely": Oguahẽramo, "He just barely arrived".[26]: 198 
-kuri: marks proximity of the action. Haʼukuri, "I just ate" (ha'u irregular first person singular form of u, "to eat"). It can also be used after a pronoun, ha che kuri, che poʼa, "and about what happened to me, I was lucky".
-vaʼekue: indicates a fact that occurred long ago and asserts that it's really truth. Okañyvaʼekue, "he/she went missing a long time ago".
-raʼe: tells that the speaker was doubtful before but he's sure at the moment he speaks. Nde rejoguaraʼe peteĩ taʼangambyry pyahu, "so then you bought a new television after all".
-rakaʼe: expresses the uncertainty of a perfect-aspect fact. Peẽ peikorakaʼe Asunción-pe, "I think you lived in Asunción for a while". Nevertheless, nowadays this morpheme has lost some of its meaning, having a correspondence with raʼe and vaʼekue.
The verb form without suffixes at all is a present somewhat aorist: Upe ára resẽ reho mombyry, "that day you got out and you went far".
-ta: is a future of immediate happening, it's also used as authoritarian imperative. Oujeýta ag̃aite, "he/she'll come back soon".
-ma: has the meaning of "already". Ajapóma, "I already did it".
These two suffixes can be added together: ahátama, "I'm already going".
-vaʼerã: indicates something not imminent or something that must be done for social or moral reasons, in this case corresponding to the German modal verb sollen. Péa ojejapovaʼerã, "that must be done".
-ne: indicates something that probably will happen or something the speaker imagines that is happening. It correlates in a certain way with the subjunctive of Spanish. Mitãnguéra ág̃a og̃uahéne hógape, "the children are probably coming home now".
-hína, ína after nasal words: continual action at the moment of speaking, present and pluperfect continuous or emphatic. Rojatapyhína, "we're making fire"; che haʼehína, "it's ME!".
-vo: it has a subtle difference with hína in which vo indicates not necessarily what's being done at the moment of speaking. ambaʼapóvo, "I'm working (not necessarily now)".
-pota: indicates proximity immediately before the start of the process. Ajukapota, "I'm near the point at which I will start to kill" or "I'm just about to kill". (A particular sandhi rule is applied here: if the verbs ends in "po", the suffix changes to mbota; ajapombota, "I'll do it right now").
-pa: indicates emphatically that a process has all finished. Amboparapa pe ogyke, "I painted the wall completely".
This suffix can be joined with ma, making up páma: ñande jaikuaapáma nde remimoʼã, "now we came to know all your thought".
-mi: customary action in the past: Oumi, "He used to come a lot".
These are unstressed suffixes: ta, ma, ne, vo, "mi"; so the stress goes upon the last syllable of the verb or the last stressed syllable.
Other verbal morphemes[edit]
-se: desiderative suffix: (Che) añemoaranduse, "I want to study".[27]
te-: desiderative prefix: Ahasa, "I pass", Tahasa, "I would like to pass." Note that te- is the underlying form. It is similar to the negative in that it has the same vowel alternations and deletions, depending on the person marker on the verb.[26]: 108 
Determiners[edit]
Guarani
English
Spanish
1 – Demonstratives:
(a) With near objects and entities (you see it)
ko
this
este, esta
upe/pe
that
ese, esa
amo
that/yonder
aquel, aquella
peteĩ-teĩ (+/- va)
each
cada uno
koʼã, ã, áã
these
estos, estas
umi
those
esos, esas, aquellos, aquellas
(b) Indefinite, with far objects and entities (you do not see it -remembering demonstratives ):
ku
that (singular)
aquel, aquella
akói
those (plural)
aquellos, aquellas
(c) Other usual demonstratives determiners:
opa
all
todo, toda, todos, todas (with all entities)
mayma
all
todos, todas (with people)
mbovy-
some, a few, determinate
unos, unas
heta
a lot of, very much
muchos, muchas
ambue (+/- kuéra)
other
otros, otras
ambue
another
otro, otra
ambueve:
The other
el otro, la otra
ambueve
other, another
otro, otros, (enfático) –
oimeraẽ
either
cualquiera
mokoĩve
both
ambos, ambas
ni peteĩ (+/- ve)
neither
ni el uno ni el otro
Spanish loans in Guarani[edit]
The close and prolonged contact Spanish and Guarani have experienced has resulted in many Guarani words of Spanish origin. Many of these loans were for things or concepts unknown to the New World prior to Spanish colonization. Examples are seen below:[28]
Semantic category
Spanish
Guarani
English
Orthography
IPA
Orthography
IPA
animals
vaca
/baka/
vaka
/ʋaka/
cow
caballo
/kabaʝo/
kavaju
/kaʋaᵈju/
horse
cabra
/kabɾa/
kavara
/kaʋaɾa/
goat
religion
cruz
/kɾuθ/
kurusu
/kuɾusu/
cross
Jesucristo
/xesukɾisto/
Hesukrísto
/xesuˈkɾisto/
Jesus Christ
Pablo
/pablo/
Pavlo
/paʋlo/
Paul (saint)
place names
Australia
/austɾalia/
Autaralia
/autaɾalia/
Australia
Islandia
/islandia/
Iylanda
/iɨlaⁿda/
Iceland
Portugal
/poɾtugal/
Poytuga
/poɨtuɰa/
Portugal
foods
queso
/keso/
kesu
/kesu/
cheese
azúcar
/aθukaɾ/
asuka
/asuka/
sugar
morcilla
/moɾθiʝa/
mbusia
/ᵐbusia/
blood sausage
herbs/spices
canela
/kanela/
kanéla
/kaˈnela/
cinnamon
cilantro
/θilantɾo/
kuratũ
/kũɾ̃ãtũ/
cilantro (US), coriander (UK)
anís
/aˈnis/
ani
/ani/
anise
Guarani loans in English[edit]
English has adopted a small number of words from Guarani (or perhaps the related Tupi) via Portuguese, mostly the names of animals or plants. "Jaguar" comes from jaguarete and "piraña" comes from pira aña ("tooth fish" Tupi: pirá = fish, aña = tooth).[29] Other words are: "agouti" from akuti, "tapir" from tapira, "açaí" from ĩwasaʼi ("[fruit that] cries or expels water"), "warrah" from aguará meaning "fox", "margay" from mbarakaja'y meaning "small cat" and "common water boa" from mbói meaning "snake". Jacaranda, guarana and mandioca are words of Guarani or Tupi–Guarani origin.[30] Ipecacuanha (the name of a medicinal drug) comes from a homonymous Tupi–Guaraní name that can be rendered as ipe-ka'a-guene, meaning a creeping plant that makes one vomit.[31]
The name of Paraguay is itself a Guarani word, as is the name of Uruguay. However, the exact meaning of either placename is up to varied interpretations. (See: List of country-name etymologies.)
"Cougar" is borrowed from the archaic Portuguese çuçuarana; the term was either originally derived from the Tupi language susuaʼrana, meaning "similar to deer (in hair color)" or from the Guaraní language term guasu ara while puma comes from the Peruvian Quechua language.
Example text[edit]
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Guaraní:
Mayma yvypóra ou ko yvy ári iñapytyʼyre ha eteĩcha tekoruvicharenda ha akatúape jeguerekópe; ha ikatu rupi oikuaa añetéva ha añeteʼyva, iporãva ha ivaíva, tekotevẽ pehenguéicha oiko oñondivekuéra.[32]
IPA: [maɨˈma ɨʋɨˈpoɾa oˈu ko ɨʋˈɨ ˈaɾi iɲapɨtɨʔɨˈɾe xa ẽtẽˈĩɕã tekoɾuʋiɕaɾeˈⁿda xa akaˈtuape ᵈjeweɾeˈkope; xa ikaˈtu ɾupi oikuaˈa aɲeˈteʋa xa aɲeteʔɨˈʋa, ĩpõɾ̃ˈãʋã xa iʋaˈiʋa tẽkõtẽˈʋẽ pexeˈᵑgʷeiɕa oiˈko oɲoⁿdiʋeˈkʷeɾa]
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in English:
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.[33]
Literature[edit]
The New Testament was translated from Greek into Guaraní by Dr John William Lindsay (1875–1946), who was a Scottish medical missionary based in Belén, Paraguay. The New Testament was printed by the British and Foreign Bible Society in 1913.  It is believed to be the first New Testament translated into any South American indigenous language.
A more modern translation of the whole Bible into Guarani is known as Ñandejara Ñeʼẽ.[34]
In 2019, Jehovah's Witnesses released the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures in Guarani,[35][36] both printed and online editions. 
Recently a series of novels in Guarani have been published:
Kalaito Pombero (Tadeo Zarratea, 1981)
Poreʼỹ rape (Hugo Centurión, 2016)
Tatukua (Arnaldo Casco Villalba, 2017)
Institutions[edit]
Ateneo de Lengua y Cultura Guaraní
Yvy Marãeʼỹ Foundation
See also[edit]
Paraguay portalLanguages portal
Guarani languages
Nheengatu language
Jopará
Jesuit Reductions
Mbyá Guaraní language
Old Tupi
WikiProject Guaraní (in Spanish)
Bibliography[edit]
Verón, Miguel Ángel (2020). "The Guaraní language in the Digital Era: Perspectives and Challenges". Arandu UTIC (in Spanish). VII (1). ISSN 2311-7559. Retrieved 20 December 2021.
Sources[edit]
^ Guaraní at Ethnologue (24th ed., 2021) 
^ Guaraní is stablished as «idioma oficial alternativo» ("co-official language") of Corrientes
^ Wells, John C. (2008). Longman Pronunciation Dictionary (3rd ed.). Longman. ISBN 978-1-4058-8118-0.
^ Britton, A. Scott (2004). Guaraní-English/English-Guaraní Concise Dictionary. New York: Hippocrene Books.
^ Mortimer, K 2006 "Guaraní Académico or Jopará? Educator Perspectives and Ideological Debate in Paraguayan Bilingual Education" Working Papers in Educational Linguistics 21/2: 45–71, 2006
^ Romero, Simon (12 March 2012). "In Paraguay, Indigenous Language With Unique Staying Power". The New York Times.
^ "Ley Provincial Nº 5.598, que establece el guaraní como "idioma oficial alternativo" de Corrientes>>" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-02-29. Retrieved 2008-05-22.
^ Website of Indigenous Peoples' Affairs which contains this information Archived 2005-10-27 at the Wayback Machine (in Spanish)
^ Incorporación del Guaraní como Idioma del Mercosur Archived 2013-12-25 at the Wayback Machine MERCOSUR official page (in Spanish)
^ Wilde, Guillermo (2001). "Los guaraníes después de la expulsión de los jesuitas: dinámicas políticas y transacciones simbólicas". Revista Complutense de Historia de América (in Spanish). 27: 69–106.
^ Telesca, Ignacio (2009). Tras los expulsos: cambios demográficos y territoriales en el paraguay después de la expulsión de los jesuitas. Asunción: Universidad Católica "Nuestra Señora De La Asunción".
^ Harald Thun (2008). Geschichte Und Aktualität Der Deutschsprachigen Guaraní-Philologie: Akten Der Guarani-Tagung in Kiel Und Berlin.
^ Restivo, Paulo (1724). Vocabulario de la lengua guaraní (in Spanish). Madrid.
^ Guarania, Félix (2008). Ñande Ayvu Tenonde Porãngue'i: Nuevo diccionario guaraní́-castellano, castellano-guaraní́: Avañe'ẽ-karaiñe'ẽ, Karaiñe'ẽ-avañe'ẽ. Asuncion: Servilibro.
^ Melia, Bartomeu (2003). La lengua guaraní́ en el Paraguay colonial (in Spanish). Asunción: CEPAG.
^ Nickson, Robert Andrew (2009). "Governance and the Revitalization of the Guaraní Language in Paraguay". Latin American Research Review. 44 (3): 3–26. doi:10.1353/lar.0.0115. JSTOR 40783668. S2CID 144250960.
^ Romero, Simon (2012-03-12). "An Indigenous Language With Unique Staying Power". New York Times. Retrieved 2019-02-01.
^ Page, Nathan (1999-09-06). "Guaraní: The Language and People". Brigham Young University Department of Linguistics. Retrieved 2019-02-01.
^ Michael, Lev, Tammy Stark, Emily Clem, and Will Chang (compilers). 2015. Phonological inventory of Paraguayan Guarani. In South American Phonological Inventory Database v1.1.4. Survey of California and Other Indian Languages Digital Resource. Berkeley: University of California.
^ Ayala, Valentín (2000). Gramática Guaraní. Asunción: Centro Editorial Paraguayo S.R.L.
^ Walker (2000) Nasalization, neutral segments, and opacity effects, p. 210
^ Tonhauser, Judith; Colijn, Erika (2010). "Word Order in Paraguayan Guarani". International Journal of American Linguistics. 76 (2): 255–288. doi:10.1086/652267. S2CID 73554080.
^ Guasch, P. Antonio (1956). El Idioma Guarnai: Gramática e Antología de Prosa y Verso. Asuncion: Casa América. p. 53.
^ Andréasson, Daniel, 2001: Active languages, Department of Linguistics, Stockholm University, p.18-20
^ Caralho, Jao de(1993) Peixes de Ámérica do Sul, Universidade de Rio de Janeiro
^ a b Graham, Charles R. (1969). Guarani Intermediate Course. Provo: Brigham Young University.
^ Blair, Robert; et al. (1968). Guarani Basic Course: Book 1. p. 50.
^ Pinta, J. (2013). "Lexical strata in loanword phonology: Spanish loans in Guarani". Master's thesis, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. (See also Lexical stratum.)
^ Mini Dicionário Tupi-Guarani
^ Yliana Rodríguez. Vestiges of an Amerindian-European language contact: Guarani loanwords in Uruguayan Spanish. 18e Rencontres Jeunes Chercheurs en Sciences du Langage, Jun 2015, Paris, France. hal-01495095, see p.13.
^ Oxford English Dictionary, " Ipecacuanha".
^ "Guarani language, alphabet and pronunciation". Omniglot.com. Retrieved 2013-08-26.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations.
^ "Guarani Bible officially included in the Vatican" (in Spanish). Última Hora. 2012-10-23.
^ "Jehovahʼs Witnesses Release New World Translation in Guarani". Jw.org. August 20, 2019.
^ "¿Orekópa umi testígo de Jehová ibíblia tee?". Jw.org.
Further reading[edit]
de Carvalho, Fernando O. (2022). "A new sound change for Guarani(an): glottal prothesis, internal classification, and the explanation of synchronic irregularities". Folia Linguistica. 56 (43-s1): 263–288. doi:10.1515/flin-2022-2026.
External links[edit]
Guarani at Wikibooks (in Spanish)
 Guarani  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Guarani Portal from the University of Mainz:
www.guaranirenda.com – Website about the Guarani language
Guarani and the Importance of Maintaining Indigenous Culture Through Language Archived 2015-04-29 at the Wayback Machine
Lenguas de Bolivia (online edition)
Romero, Simon (12 March 2012). "MEMO FROM PARAGUAY; An Indigenous Language With Unique Staying Power". The New York Times. p. 6.
Duolingo course in Guarani
Resources[edit]
A Grammar of Paraguayan Guarani – by Bruno Estigarribia, UCL Press (open access, Creative Commons license)
Guarani Swadesh vocabulary list (from Wiktionary)
Guarani–English Dictionary: from *Webster's Online Dictionary – The Rosetta Edition
www.guarani.de – Online dictionary in Spanish, German and Guarani
Guarani Possessive Constructions: – by Maura Velázquez
Stative Verbs and Possessions in Guarani: – University of Cologne (pdf missing)
Frases celebres del Latin traducidas al guarani (in Spanish)
Spanish – Estructura Basica del Guarani and others
Etymological and Ethnographic Dictionary for Bolivian Guarani
Guaraní (Intercontinental Dictionary Series)
vteLanguages of ArgentinaOfficial languages
Spanish
Regional languages
Guarani
Mapuche
Quechua
IndigenouslanguagesChonan
Puelche
Tehuelche
Teushen
Mataco–GuaicuruCharruan
Balomar
Guaicuruan
Abipón
Guachi
Mocoví
Payaguá
Pilagá
Toba Qom
Matacoan
Iyo'wujwa Chorote
Iyojwa'ja Chorote
Nivaclé
Wichí Lhamtés Güisnay
Wichí Lhamtés Nocten
Wichí Lhamtés Vejoz
Quechuan
Southern Quechua
Santiagueño
South Bolivian
Tupi–Guarani
Ava Guarani
Eastern Bolivian Guaraní
Kaiwá
Mbyá Guaraní
Others
Aymara
Chané
Vilela
Minority languages
Cocoliche
German
Argentinien-schwyzertütsch
Ligurian
Lunfardo
Welsh
Patagonian Welsh
Regional dialects
Cordobés
Cuyo
Portuñol
Rioplatense
Vesre
Tucumano
Sign languages
Argentine Sign Language
Italics indicate extinct languages
vteLanguages of BoliviaNational language
Spanish
IndigenouslanguagesArawakan
Baure
Iñapari
Moxo
Pauna
Yine
Pano–Tacanan
Araona
Cavineño
Chácobo
Ese Ejja
Reyesano
Tacana
Toromona
Yaminawa
Quechua
Cusco–Collao Quechua
North Bolivian Quechua
South Bolivian Quechua
Tupian
Guaraní
Eastern Bolivian
Guarayu
Sirionó
Yuki
Other
Aymara
Ayoreo
Chiquitano
Canichana
Cayubaba
Chimán
Chipaya
Itonama
Leco
Kallawaya
Moré
Movima
Puquina
Tonalla
Warázu
Weenhayek
Yuracaré
Sign languages
Bolivian Sign Language
Italics indicate extinct languages still recognized by the Bolivian constitution.
vteLanguages of BrazilOfficial language
Portuguese
Brazilian Sign Language
Regional languages
German
Pomeranian
Hunsrik
Italian
Talian
IndigenouslanguagesArawakan
Asháninka
Atorada
Baniwa
Barawana
Baré
Enawenê-Nawê
Mapidian
Mehinaku
Palikúr
Paresi
Tariana
Terêna
Wapishana
Warekena
Waurá
Arawan
Deni
Jamamadí
Kulina
Paumarí
Zuruahá
Cariban
Amonap
Apalaí
Bakairi
Carib
Hixkaryana
Ikpeng
Macushi
Pará Arára
Salumá
Sikiana
Ye'kuana
Waiwai
Panoan
Amawaka
Kashinawa
Shipibo
Yaminawa
Macro-Jê
Akwẽ-Xerénte
Apinajé
Arikapú
Bororo
Chiquitano
Djeoromitxí
Kaingang
Karajá
Kĩsêdjê
Krenak
Laklãnõ (Xokléng)
Maxakalí
Mẽbêngôkre
Ofayé
Panará
Rikbaktsa
Tapayúna
Timbira
Xavante
Nadahup
Dâw
Hup
Kakwa
Nadëb
Tupian
Akwáwa
Juruna
Kagwahiva
Kaiwá
Munduruku
Nheengatu
Omagua
Tapirapé
Tenetehara
Xeta
Xipaya
Zo'é
Chapacuran
Oro Win
Wariʼ
Tukanoan
Cubeo
Tukano
Tuyuca
Wanano
Nambikwaran
Mamaindê
Nambikwara
Sabanê
Others
Aikanã
Arutani
Guató
Irantxe
Kadiwéu
Kanamarí
Katawixi
Kwaza
Ninam
Pirahã
Ticuna
Xukuru
Interlanguages
Cafundó
Lanc-Patuá
Macarrônico
Portunhol fronteiriço
Sign languages
Brazilian Sign
Ka'apor Sign
Terena Sign
Non-official
Japanese
Vlax Romani
Hungarian
Arabic
French
Dutch
Haitian Creole
Greek
Polish
Romanian
Russian
Tagalog
Turkish
Korean
Chinese
Slovak
vteLanguages of ParaguayOfficial languages
Spanish
Guaraní
IndigenouslanguagesGuaicuruan
Toba Qom
Mascoian
Angaité
Enlhet
Enxet
Kaskihá
Sanapaná
Toba-Maskoy
Matacoan
Iyo'wujwa Chorote
Maka
Nivaclé
Tupi–Guarani
Aché
Ava Guarani
Pai Tavytera
Zamucoan
Ayoreo
Chamacoco
Other European languages
Portuguese
German (Plautdietsch)
Italian
Sign languages
Paraguayan Sign Language
vteTupian languagesArikem
Arikem
Kabixiana
Karitiâna
Tupari
Akuntsu
Kepkiriwát
Makurap
Mekens
Tupari
Wayoró
Mondé
Aruáshi
Cinta Larga
Gavião of Jiparaná
Guariba Arára
Mondé
Suruí
Zoro
Puruborá–Ramarama
Karo
Puruborá
Urumi
Yuruna
Juruna
Maritsauá
Xipaya
Munduruku
Kuruaya
Munduruku
Maweti–Guarani
Mawé
Awetï
Tupi–GuaraniGuarani (I)
Aché
Guarani
Chiripá
East Bolivian
Mbyá
Paraguayan
West Bolivian
Kaiwá
Pai Tavytera
Xeta
Guarayu (II)
Guarayu
Pauserna
Sirionó
Tupi (III)
Classical Tupi
Southern Tupi
Cocama
Nheengatu
Omagua
Potiguara
Tupiniquim
Tenetehara (IV)
Akwáwa
Avá-Canoeiro
Tapirapé
Tenetehara
Guajajara
Turiwára
Xingu (V)
Amanayé
Anambé
Ararandewara
Araweté
Aurá
Xingu Asurini
Kawahíb (VI)
Apiaká
Karipuna (Jau-Navo)
Kagwahiva
Kayabi
Uru-Pa-In
Kamayurá (VII)
Kamayurá
Northern (VIII)
Emerillon
Guajá
Takunyapé
Urubu–Kaapor
Wayampi
Wayampipukú
Zo'é
Proto-languages
Proto-Tupian
Italics indicate extinct languages
Authority control: National 
Germany
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Guarani_language&oldid=1172712410"
Categories: Guarani languagesAgglutinative languagesLanguages of ArgentinaLanguages of BoliviaLanguages of BrazilLanguages of ParaguayIndigenous languages of South America (Central)Subject–verb–object languagesHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 24Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with Spanish-language sources (es)CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataPages with non-English text lacking appropriate markup and no ISO hintPages with non-English text lacking appropriate markup from November 2019All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2022Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing Guarani-language textArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 20:36 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width