Icelandic language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
2Legal status and recognition
3Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
3.1Consonants
3.2Vowels
4Grammar
5Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
5.1Cognates with English
5.2Language policy
5.3Linguistic purism
6Writing system
7See also
8Notes
9References
Toggle References subsection
9.1Bibliography
10Further reading
11External links
Toggle External links subsection
11.1Dictionaries
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Icelandic language
153 languages
АдыгэбзэAfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛAnarâškielâअंगिकाÆngliscАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAvañe'ẽAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaChiShonaCorsuCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschDolnoserbskiEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalego贛語客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HawaiʻiՀայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaИронIsiZuluÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaქართულიҚазақшаKernowekKiswahiliКомиKotavaКыргызчаລາວLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLivvinkarjalaLombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsNedersaksies日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаپنجابیپښتوPatoisភាសាខ្មែរPiemontèisTok PisinPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsSeelterskShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣᏣᎳᎩTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVènetoVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükVõro吴语粵語ZazakiŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
North Germanic language
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Icelandic language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
IcelandicíslenskaPronunciation[ˈist.l̥ɛn.ska]Native toIcelandEthnicityIcelandersNative speakers357,069 (2018)Language familyIndo-European
GermanicNorthwest Germanic[1]North GermanicWest ScandinavianIcelandicEarly formsOld Norse
Old West Norse
Old Icelandic
Writing systemLatin (Icelandic alphabet)Icelandic BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language in Iceland   Nordic CouncilRegulated byÁrni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies[a]Language codesISO 639-1isISO 639-2ice (B) isl (T)ISO 639-3islGlottologicel1247Linguasphere52-AAA-aaIceland, where Icelandic is the language of the majorityThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Icelandic (/aɪsˈlændɪk/ i; Icelandic: íslenska pronounced [ˈis.tl̥ɛn.ska] i) is a North Germanic language spoken by about 314,000 people, the vast majority of whom live in Iceland, where it is the national language.[2] Due to being a West Scandinavian language, it is most closely related to Faroese, western Norwegian dialects, and the extinct language Norn. It is not mutually intelligible with the continental Scandinavian languages (Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish) and is more distinct from the most widely spoken Germanic languages, English and German. The written forms of the two languages are very similar, but their spoken forms are not mutually intelligible.[3]
The language is more conservative than most other Germanic languages. While most of them have greatly reduced levels of inflection (particularly noun declension), Icelandic retains a four-case synthetic grammar (comparable to German, though considerably more conservative and synthetic) and is distinguished by a wide assortment of irregular declensions. Icelandic vocabulary is also deeply conservative, with the country's language regulator maintaining an active policy of coining terms based on older Icelandic words rather than directly taking in loanwords from other languages. Since the written language has not changed much, Icelandic speakers can read classic Old Norse literature created in the 10th through 13th centuries (such as the Eddas and sagas) with relative ease.
Aside from the 300,000 Icelandic speakers in Iceland, Icelandic is spoken by about 8,000 people in Denmark,[4] 5,000 people in the United States,[5] and more than 1,400 people in Canada,[6] notably in the region known as New Iceland in Manitoba which was settled by Icelanders beginning in the 1880s.
The state-funded Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies serves as a centre for preserving the medieval Icelandic manuscripts and studying the language and its literature. The Icelandic Language Council, comprising representatives of universities, the arts, journalists, teachers, and the Ministry of Culture, Science and Education, advises the authorities on language policy. Since 1995, on 16 November each year, the birthday of 19th-century poet Jónas Hallgrímsson is celebrated as Icelandic Language Day.[7][8]
History[edit]
Main article: History of Icelandic
A page from the Landnámabók, an early Icelandic manuscript
The oldest preserved texts in Icelandic were written around 1100 AD. Many of the texts are based on poetry and laws traditionally preserved orally. The most famous of the texts, which were written in Iceland from the 12th century onward, are the sagas of Icelanders, which encompass the historical works and the Poetic Edda.
The language of the sagas is Old Icelandic, a western dialect of Old Norse. The Dano-Norwegian, then later Danish rule of Iceland from 1536 to 1918 had little effect on the evolution of Icelandic (in contrast to the Norwegian language), which remained in daily use among the general population. Though more archaic than the other living Germanic languages, Icelandic changed markedly in pronunciation from the 12th to the 16th century, especially in vowels (in particular, á, æ, au, and y/ý).
The modern Icelandic alphabet has developed from a standard established in the 19th century, primarily by the Danish linguist Rasmus Rask. It is based strongly on an orthography laid out in the early 12th century by a document referred to as the First Grammatical Treatise by an anonymous author, who has later been referred to as the First Grammarian. The later Rasmus Rask standard was a re-creation of the old treatise, with some changes to fit concurrent Germanic conventions, such as the exclusive use of k rather than c. Various archaic features, as the letter ð, had not been used much in later centuries. Rask's standard constituted a major change in practice. Later 20th-century changes include the use of é instead of je and the replacement of z with s in 1973.[9]
Apart from the addition of new vocabulary, written Icelandic has not changed substantially since the 11th century, when the first texts were written on vellum.[10] Modern speakers can understand the original sagas and Eddas which were written about eight hundred years ago. The sagas are usually read with updated modern spelling and footnotes, but otherwise are intact (as with recent English editions of Shakespeare's works). With some effort, many Icelanders can also understand the original manuscripts.
Legal status and recognition[edit]
According to an act passed by the Parliament in 2011, Icelandic is "the national language of the Icelandic people and the official language in Iceland"; moreover, "[p]ublic authorities shall ensure that its use is possible in all areas of Icelandic society".[11]
Iceland is a member of the Nordic Council, a forum for co-operation between the Nordic countries, but the council uses only Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish as its working languages (although the council does publish material in Icelandic).[12] Under the Nordic Language Convention, since 1987 Icelandic citizens have had the right to use Icelandic when interacting with official bodies in other Nordic countries, without becoming liable for any interpretation or translation costs. The convention covers visits to hospitals, job centres, the police, and social security offices.[13][14] It does not have much effect since it is not very well known and because those Icelanders not proficient in the other Scandinavian languages often have a sufficient grasp of English to communicate with institutions in that language (although there is evidence that the general English skills of Icelanders have been somewhat overestimated).[15] The Nordic countries have committed to providing services in various languages to each other's citizens, but this does not amount to any absolute rights being granted, except as regards criminal and court matters.[16][17]
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Icelandic phonology
Icelandic has very minor dialectal differences phonetically. The language has both monophthongs and diphthongs, and consonants can be voiced or unvoiced.
Voice plays a primary role in the differentiation of most consonants including the nasals but excluding the plosives. The plosives b, d, and g are voiceless and differ from p, t, and k only by their lack of aspiration. Preaspiration occurs before geminate (long or double consonants) p, t, and k. It does not occur before geminate b, d, or g. Pre-aspirated tt is analogous etymologically and phonetically to German and Dutch cht (compare Icelandic nótt, dóttir with the German Nacht, Tochter and the Dutch nacht, dochter).
Consonants[edit]
Consonant phones
Labial
Coronal
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
(m̥)
m
(n̥)
n
(ɲ̊)
(ɲ)
(ŋ̊)
(ŋ)
Stop
pʰ
p
tʰ
t
(cʰ)
(c)
kʰ
k
Continuant
sibilant
s
non-sibilant
f
v
θ
ð
(ç)
j
(x)
(ɣ)
h
Lateral
(l̥)
l
Rhotic
(r̥)
r
/n̥ n tʰ t/ are laminal denti-alveolar, /s/ is apical alveolar,[18][19] /θ ð/ are alveolar non-sibilant fricatives;[19][20] the former is laminal,[19][20] while the latter is usually apical.[19][20]
The voiceless continuants /f s θ ç x h/ are always constrictive [f s̺ θ̠ ç x h], but the voiced continuants /v ð j ɣ/ are not very constrictive and are usually pronounced closer to approximants [ʋ ð̠˕ j ɰ] than fricatives [v ð̠ ʝ ɣ].
The rhotic consonants may either be trills [r̥ r] or taps [ɾ̥ ɾ], depending on the speaker.
A phonetic analysis reveals that the voiceless lateral approximant [l̥] is, in practice, usually realised with considerable friction, especially word-finally or syllable-finally, i. e., essentially as a voiceless alveolar lateral fricative [ɬ].[21]
Scholten (2000, p. 22) includes three extra phones: [ʔ l̥ˠ lˠ].
Word-final voiced consonants are devoiced pre-pausally, so that dag ('day (acc.)') is pronounced as [ˈtaːx] and dagur ('day (nom.)') is pronounced [ˈtaːɣʏr̥].[22]
Many competing analyses have been proposed for Icelandic phonemes. The problems stem from complex but regular alternations and mergers among the above phones in various positions.
Vowels[edit]
Monophthongs
Front
Back
plain
round
Close
i
 
u
Near-close
ɪ
ʏ
 
Open-mid
ɛ
œ
ɔ
Open
a
Diphthongs
Frontoffglide
Backoffglide
Mid
ei • œi
ou
Open
ai
au
Grammar[edit]
Photograph taken from page 176 of Colloquial Icelandic
Main article: Icelandic grammar
Icelandic retains many grammatical features of other ancient Germanic languages, and resembles Old Norwegian before much of its fusional inflection was lost. Modern Icelandic is still a heavily inflected language with four cases: nominative, accusative, dative and genitive. Icelandic nouns can have one of three grammatical genders: masculine, feminine or neuter. There are two main declension paradigms for each gender: strong and weak nouns, and these are further divided into subclasses of nouns, based primarily on the genitive singular and nominative plural endings of a particular noun. For example, within the strong masculine nouns, there is a subclass (class 1) that declines with -s (hests) in the genitive singular and -ar (hestar) in the nominative plural. However, there is another subclass (class 3) of strong masculine nouns that always declines with -ar (hlutar) in the genitive singular and -ir (hlutir) in the nominative plural. Additionally, Icelandic permits a quirky subject, that is, certain verbs have subjects in an oblique case (i.e. other than the nominative).
Nouns, adjectives and pronouns are declined in the four cases and for number in the singular and plural.
Verbs are conjugated for tense, mood, person, number and voice. There are three voices: active, passive and middle (or medial), but it may be debated whether the middle voice is a voice or simply an independent class of verbs of its own, as every middle-voice verb has an active-voice ancestor, but sometimes with drastically different meaning, and the middle-voice verbs form a conjugation group of their own. Examples are koma ("come") vs. komast ("get there"), drepa ("kill") vs. drepast ("perish ignominiously") and taka ("take") vs. takast ("manage to"). In each of these examples, the meaning has been so altered, that one can hardly see them as the same verb in different voices. Verbs have up to ten tenses, but Icelandic, like English, forms most of them with auxiliary verbs. There are three or four main groups of weak verbs in Icelandic, depending on whether one takes a historical or a formalistic view: -a, -i, and -ur, referring to the endings that these verbs take when conjugated in the first person singular present.
Almost all Icelandic verbs have the ending -a in the infinitive, some with á, two with u (munu, skulu) one with o (þvo: "wash") and one with e (the Danish borrowing ske which is probably withdrawing its presence)[clarification needed]. Many transitive verbs (i.e. they require an object), can take a reflexive pronoun instead. The case of the pronoun depends on the case that the verb governs. As for further classification of verbs, Icelandic behaves much like other Germanic languages, with a main division between weak verbs and strong, and the strong verbs, of which there are about 150 to 200, are divided into six classes plus reduplicative verbs. They still make up some of the most frequently used verbs. (Að vera, "to be", is the example par excellence, having two subjunctives and two imperatives in addition to being made up of different stems.) There is also a class of auxiliary verbs, called the -ri verbs (4 or 5, depending on who is counting),[clarification needed] and the oddity að valda ("to cause"), called the only totally irregular verb in Icelandic although every form of it is caused by common and regular sound changes.
The basic word order in Icelandic is subject–verb–object. However, as words are heavily inflected, the word order is fairly flexible, and every combination may occur in poetry; SVO, SOV, VSO, VOS, OSV and OVS are all allowed for metrical purposes. However, as with most Germanic languages, Icelandic usually complies with the V2 word order restriction, so the conjugated verb in Icelandic usually appears as the second element in the clause, preceded by the word or phrase being emphasised. For example:
Ég veit það ekki. (I know it not.)
Ekki veit ég það. (Not know I it. )
Það veit ég ekki. (It know I not.)
Ég fór til Bretlands þegar ég var eins árs. (I went to Britain when I was one year old.)
Til Bretlands fór ég þegar ég var eins árs. (To Britain went I, when I was one year old.)
Þegar ég var eins árs fór ég til Bretlands. (When I was one year old, went I to Britain.)
In the above examples, the conjugated verbs veit and fór are always the second element in their respective clauses, see verb-second word order.
A distinction between formal and informal address (T–V distinction) had existed in Icelandic from the 17th century, but use of the formal variant weakened in the 1950s and rapidly disappeared.[23] It no longer exists in regular speech, but may occasionally be found in pre-written speeches addressed to the bishop and members of parliament.[23]
Vocabulary[edit]
Main articles: Icelandic vocabulary and Icelandic name
A simple family tree showing the Icelandic patronymic naming system.
Eyjafjallajökull, one of the smaller ice caps of Iceland, situated to the north of Skógar and to the west of Mýrdalsjökull, is Icelandic for "glacier of Eyjafjöll", in turn "glacier of island mountain".
Early Icelandic vocabulary was largely Old Norse.[24] The introduction of Christianity to Iceland in the 11th century[25] brought with it a need to describe new religious concepts. The majority of new words were taken from other Scandinavian languages; kirkja ("church"), for example. Numerous other languages have influenced Icelandic: French brought many words related to the court and knightship; words in the semantic field of trade and commerce have been borrowed from Low German because of trade connections. In the late 18th century, language purism began to gain noticeable ground in Iceland and since the early 19th century it has been the linguistic policy of the country (see linguistic purism in Icelandic).[26] Nowadays, it is common practice to coin new compound words from Icelandic derivatives.
Icelandic personal names are patronymic (and sometimes matronymic) in that they reflect the immediate father or mother of the child and not the historic family lineage. This system, which was formerly used throughout the Nordic area and beyond, differs from most Western systems of family name. In most Icelandic families, the ancient tradition of patronymics is still in use; i.e. a person uses their father's name (usually) or mother's name (increasingly in recent years) in the genitive form followed by the morpheme -son ("son") or -dóttir ("daughter") in lieu of family names.[27]
In 2019, changes were announced to the laws governing names. Icelanders who are officially registered with non-binary gender will be permitted to use the suffix -bur ("child of") instead of -son or -dóttir.[28]
Cognates with English[edit]
As Icelandic shares its ancestry with English and both are Germanic languages, there are many cognate words in both languages; each have the same or a similar meaning and are derived from a common root. The possessive, though not the plural, of a noun is often signified with the ending -s, as in English. Phonological and orthographical changes in each of the languages will have changed spelling and pronunciation. A few examples are given below.
English word
Icelandic word
Spoken comparison
apple
epli
listeni
book
bók
listeni
high/hair
hár
listeni
house
hús
listeni
mother
móðir
listeni
night
nótt/nátt
listeni
stone
steinn
listeni
that
það
listeni
word
orð
listeni
Language policy[edit]
A core theme of Icelandic language ideologies is grammatical, orthographic and lexical purism for Icelandic. This is evident in general language discourses, in polls, and in other investigations into Icelandic language attitudes.[29] The general consensus on Icelandic language policy has come to mean that language policy and language ideology discourse are not predominantly state or elite driven; but rather, remain the concern of lay people and the general public.[30] The Icelandic speech community is perceived to have a protectionist language culture;[31] however, this is deep-rooted ideologically primarily in relation to the forms of the language, while Icelanders in general seem to be more "pragmatic" as to domains of language use.[32]
Linguistic purism[edit]
Main article: Linguistic purism in Icelandic
During the 19th century, a movement was started by writers and other educated people of the country to rid the language of foreign words as much as possible and to create a new vocabulary and adapt the Icelandic language to the evolution of new concepts, thus avoiding the use of borrowed neologisms as are found in many other languages.[33] Many old words which had fallen into disuse were recycled and given new senses in the modern language, and neologisms were created from Old Norse roots. For example, the word rafmagn ("electricity"), literally means "amber power", calquing the derivation of the Greek root "electr-" from Greek elektron ("amber").[34] Similarly, the word sími ("telephone") originally meant "cord", and tölva ("computer") is a portmanteau of tala ("digit; number") and völva ("seeress; prophetess"). Foreign borrowings that are more likely to survive tend to be of Danish, German, or disguised Latin origin; for example, armbandsúr, "wristwatch", originally from German and likely through Danish, with úr, "clock", ultimately derived from Latin and Greek; and reglu, "rule", from Latin. In many such cases, especially for words of Germanic origin, the Icelandic word may be reinterpreted under the purism policy as a calque.
Writing system[edit]
Main articles: Icelandic orthography and Icelandic Braille
The Icelandic alphabet is notable for its retention of two old letters that no longer exist in the English alphabet: Þ, þ (þorn, modern English "thorn") and Ð, ð (eð, anglicised as "eth" or "edh"), representing the voiceless and voiced "th" sounds (as in English thin and this), respectively. The complete Icelandic alphabet is:
Majuscule forms (also called uppercase or capital letters)
A
Á
B
D
Ð
E
É
F
G
H
I
Í
J
K
L
M
N
O
Ó
P
R
S
T
U
Ú
V
X
Y
Ý
Þ
Æ
Ö
Minuscule forms (also called lowercase or small letters)
a
á
b
d
ð
e
é
f
g
h
i
í
j
k
l
m
n
o
ó
p
r
s
t
u
ú
v
x
y
ý
þ
æ
ö
The letters with diacritics, such as á and ö, are for the most part treated as separate letters and not variants of their derivative vowels. The letter é officially replaced je in 1929, although it had been used in early manuscripts (until the 14th century) and again periodically from the 18th century.[35] The letter z was formerly in the Icelandic alphabet, but it was officially removed in 1973.
See also[edit]
Basque–Icelandic pidgin (a pidgin that was used to trade with Basque whalers)
Icelandic exonyms
Icelandic literature
Icelandic name
Notes[edit]
^ In an advisory capacity.
References[edit]
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian (24 May 2022). "Older Runic". Glottolog. Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. Archived from the original on 13 November 2022. Retrieved 13 November 2022.
^ Icelandic language at Ethnologue (19th ed., 2016) 
^ Barbour, Stephen; Carmichael, Cathie (2000). Language and Nationalism in Europe. OUP Oxford. p. 106. ISBN 978-0-19-158407-7.
^ "StatBank Denmark". www.statbank.dk.
^ "Icelandic". MLA Language Map Data Center. Modern Language Association. Retrieved 17 April 2010. Based on 2000 US census data.
^ Government of Canada, Statistics Canada (8 May 2013). "2011 National Household Survey: Data tables – Detailed Mother Tongue (158), Generation Status (4), Knowledge of Official Languages (5), Number of Non-Official Languages Spoken (5), Age Groups (10) and Sex (3) for the Population in Private Households of Canada, Provinces and Territories, 2011 National Household Survey". www12.statcan.gc.ca.
^ "Icelandic: At Once Ancient And Modern" (PDF). Icelandic Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. 2001. Retrieved 27 April 2007.
^ "Menntamálaráðuneyti" [Ministry of Education]. Retrieved 27 April 2007.
^ "Auglýsing um afnám Z" [Advertising on the Elimination of Z]. Brunnur.stjr.is. 3 April 2000. Archived from the original on 29 October 2012. Retrieved 17 June 2010.
^ Sanders, Ruth (2010). German: Biography of a Language. Oxford University Press. p. 209. Overall, written Icelandic has changed little since the eleventh century Icelandic sagas, or historical epics; only the addition of significant numbers of vocabulary items in modern times makes it likely that a saga author would have difficulty understanding the news in today's [Icelandic newspapers].
^ "Act [No 61/2011] on the status of the Icelandic language and Icelandic sign language" (PDF). Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. p. 1. Retrieved 15 November 2013. Article 1; National language – official language; Icelandic is the national language of the Icelandic people and the official language in Iceland. Article 2; The Icelandic language — The national language is the common language of the Icelandic general public. Public authorities shall ensure that its use is possible in all areas of Icelandic society. All persons residing in Iceland must be given the opportunity to learn Icelandic and to use it for their general participation in Icelandic society, as further provided in leges speciales.
^ "Norden". Retrieved 27 April 2007.
^ "Nordic Language Convention". Archived from the original on 29 June 2007. Retrieved 27 April 2007.
^ "Nordic Language Convention". Archived from the original on 28 April 2009. Retrieved 27 April 2007.
^ Robert Berman. "The English Cognitive Academic Language Proficiency of Icelandic students, and how to improve it". Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. English is often described as being almost a second language in Iceland, as opposed to a foreign language like German or Chinese. Certainly in terms of Icelandic students' Basic Interpersonal Communication Skills (BICS), English does indeed seem to be a second language. However, in terms of many Icelandic students' Cognitive Academic Language Proficiency (CALP)—the language skills required for success in school—evidence will be presented suggesting that there may be a large number of students who have substantial trouble utilizing these skills.
^ Language Convention not working properly Archived 2009-04-28 at the Wayback Machine, Nordic news, March 3, 2007. Retrieved on April 25, 2007.
^ Helge Niska, "Community interpreting in Sweden: A short presentation", International Federation of Translators, 2004. Retrieved on April 25, 2007. Archived 2009-03-27 at the Wayback Machine
^ Kress (1982:23–24) "It's never voiced, as s in sausen, and it's pronounced by pressing the tip of the tongue against the alveolar ridge, close to the upper teeth – somewhat below the place of articulation of the German sch. The difference is that German sch is labialized, while Icelandic s is not. It's a pre-alveolar, coronal, voiceless spirant."
^ a b c d Pétursson (1971:?), cited in Ladefoged & Maddieson (1996:145)
^ a b c Ladefoged & Maddieson (1996:144–145)
^ Liberman, Mark. "A little Icelandic phonetics". Language Log. University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved 1 April 2012.
^ Árnason 2011: 107, 237
^ a b "Þéranir á meðal vor". Morgunblaðið. 29 October 1999.
^ Brown, Edward Keith; Ogilvie, Sarah (2010). Concise encyclopedia of languages of the world. Elsevier. p. 781. ISBN 9780080877754. OCLC 944400471.
^ Forbes, Charles Stuart (1860). Iceland: Its Volcanoes, Geysers, And Glaciers. p. 61. ISBN 978-1298551429.
^ Hulst, Harry van der (2008). Word Prosodic Systems in the Languages of Europe. Mouton de Gruyter. p. 377. ISBN 978-1282193666. OCLC 741344348.
^ 
Hilmarsson-Dunn, Amanda & Kristinsson, Ari Páll. 2010. The Language Situation in Iceland. In: Current Issues in Language Planning. 11. Pp. 207‒276
^ Kyzer, Larissa (22 June 2019). "Icelandic names will no longer be gendered". Iceland Review.
^ Kristinsson, Ari Páll. 2018. National language policy and planning in Iceland – aims and institutional activities. In G. Stickel (ed.): National language institutions and national languages. Budapest: Research Institute for Linguistics, Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Pp. 243-249.
^ Kristinsson, Ari Páll. 2013. Evolving language ideologies and media practices in Iceland. In Ulrich Ammon, Jeroen Darquennes, Sue Wright (eds.): Sociolinguistica. International Yearbook of European Sociolinguistics. 27. Berlín/Boston: De Gruyter. Pp. 54–68.
^ Hilmarsson-Dunn, Amanda & Kristinsson, Ari Páll. 2010. The Language Situation in Iceland. In: Current Issues in Language Planning. 11. Pp. 207‒276.
^ Kristinsson, Ari Páll. 2014. Ideologies in Iceland: The protection of language forms. In: Anna Kristina Hultgren, Frans Gregersen, Jacob Thøgersen (eds.): English in Nordic Universities: Ideologies and Practices. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company. Pp. 165-177.
^ Brydon, Anne (1992). The eye of the guest : Icelandic nationalist discourse and the whaling issue. National Library of Canada = Bibliothèque nationale du Canada. p. 52. ISBN 0315747854. OCLC 29911689.
^ "ἤλεκτρον - Wiktionary". en.wiktionary.org. Retrieved 11 March 2018.
^ "Hvenær var bókstafurinn 'é' tekinn upp í íslensku í stað 'je' og af hverju er 'je' enn notað í ýmsum orðum?" (in Icelandic). 12 November 2001. Retrieved 20 June 2007.
Bibliography[edit]
Árnason, Kristján; Sigrún Helgadóttir (1991). "Terminology and Icelandic Language Policy". Behovet och nyttan av terminologiskt arbete på 90-talet. Nordterm 5. Nordterm-symposium. pp. 7–21.
Árnason, Kristján (2011), The Phonology of Icelandic and Faroese, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-922931-4
Halldórsson, Halldór (1979). "Icelandic Purism and its History". Word. 30: 76–86.
Hilmarsson-Dunn, Amanda; Kristinsson, Ari Páll (2010). "The Language Situation in Iceland". Current Issues in Language Planning. 11 (3): 207‒276. doi:10.1080/14664208.2010.538008. S2CID 144856348.
Kress, Bruno (1982), Isländische Grammatik, VEB Verlag Enzyklopädie Leipzig
Kvaran, Guðrún; Höskuldur Þráinsson; Kristján Árnason; et al. (2005). Íslensk tunga I–III. Reykjavík: Almenna bókafélagið. ISBN 9979-2-1900-9. OCLC 71365446.
Ladefoged, Peter; Maddieson, Ian (1996). The Sounds of the World's Languages. Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-19815-4.
Orešnik, Janez; Magnús Pétursson (1977). "Quantity in Modern Icelandic". Arkiv för Nordisk Filologi. 92: 155–71.
Pétursson, Magnus (1971), "Étude de la réalisation des consonnes islandaises þ, ð, s, dans la prononciation d'un sujet islandais à partir de la radiocinématographie" [Study on the realisation of the Icelandic consonants þ, ð, s, in the pronunciation of an Icelandic subject from radiocinematography], Phonetica, 33 (4): 203–216, doi:10.1159/000259344, S2CID 145316121
Rögnvaldsson, Eiríkur (1993). Íslensk hljóðkerfisfræði [Icelandic phonology]. Reykjavík: Málvísindastofnun Háskóla Íslands. ISBN 9979-853-14-X.
Scholten, Daniel (2000). Einführung in die isländische Grammatik. Munich: Philyra Verlag. ISBN 3-935267-00-2. OCLC 76178278.
Vikør, Lars S. (1993). The Nordic Languages. Their Status and Interrelations. Oslo: Novus Press. pp. 55–59, 168–169, 209–214.
Further reading[edit]
Icelandic: Grammar, Text and Glossary (1945; 2000) by Stefán Einarsson. Johns Hopkins University Press, ISBN 9780801863578.
External links[edit]
Icelandic language  at Wikipedia's sister projects
Media from CommonsTextbooks from WikibooksPhrasebook from WikivoyageIcelandic edition of WikipediaData from Wikidata
The Icelandic Language, an overview of the language from the Icelandic Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
BBC Languages – Icelandic, with audio samples
Icelandic: at once ancient and modern, a 16-page pamphlet with an overview of the language from the Icelandic Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, 2001.
The New World Translation of the Christian Greek Scriptures in Icelandic, the modern bible translation, published by Jehovah's Witnesses,[1] both printed and online versions, 2019.
Íslensk málstöð (The Icelandic Language Institute) Archived 2014-02-03 at the Wayback Machine
(in Icelandic) Lexicographical Institute of Háskóli Íslands / Orðabók Háskóla Íslands Archived 2014-02-19 at the Wayback Machine
https://www.worlddata.info/languages/icelandic.php
Dictionaries[edit]
Icelandic-English Dictionary / Íslensk-ensk orðabók Sverrir Hólmarsson, Christopher Sanders, John Tucker. Searchable dictionary from the University of Wisconsin–Madison Libraries
Icelandic – English Dictionary: from Webster's Rosetta Edition.
Collection of Icelandic bilingual dictionaries
Old Icelandic-English Dictionary by Richard Cleasby and Gudbrand Vigfusson
vteIceland articlesHistoryBy topic
Economic
Military
Nationality
Prohibition
Rulers
Timeline
Settlement
Commonwealth
Christianization
Aristocracy
Sturlung Era
Reformation
Danish trade monopoly
Independence Movement
Kingdom
World War II
Invasion
Cold War
Cod Wars
2008–2011 financial crisis
GeographyNatural
Climate
Earthquakes
Extreme points
Fjords
Forests
Geology
Glaciers
Highlands
Islands
Lakes
National parks
Rivers
Valleys
Volcanoes
Waterfalls
Wildlife
Political
Constituencies
Counties
Farthings
Localities
Municipalities
Regions
Politics
Administrative divisions
Cabinet
Constitution
Elections
Foreign relations
Human rights
Law
Law enforcement
LGBT rights
Military
Parliament
Political parties
President
Prime Minister
Supreme Court
Economy
Agriculture
Banking
Communications
Króna (currency)
Energy
Nasdaq Iceland
Outvasion
Taxation
Tourism
Transport
Society
Demographics
Education
Healthcare
Icelanders
Languages
Religion
Culture
Anthem
Architecture
Art
Chess
Cinema
Coat of arms
Cuisine
Flag
Literature
Mass media
Music
Names
National costume
Public holidays
Sport
Television
OutlineIndex
Category
Portal
vteIcelandic languageFeatures
Braille
Grammar
Orthography
Phonology
Vocabulary
Names
Patronymic names
Street names
List of exonyms
History and literature
History
Old Icelandic
Literature
Sagas
Poetic Edda
Skaldic poetry
Promotion and purism
Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies
Icelandic Language Day
Icelandic Language Council
Icelandic Language Fund
Icelandic Language Institute
Icelandic Naming Committee
Linguistic purism
Related topics
Icelandic Sign Language
List of Icelandic writers
vteGermanic languagesAccording to contemporary philologyWestAnglo-FrisianAnglic
English
dialects
Old English
Middle English
Modern English
Early Modern English
Irish Anglo-Norman
Fingallian
Yola
Scots
Early Scots
Middle Scots
FrisianHistorical forms
Old Frisian
Middle Frisian
East Frisian
Ems
Saterland Frisian
Weser
Wangerooge Frisian
Wursten Frisian
North Frisian
Insular
Eiderstedt
Föhr–Amrum
Föhr
Amrum
Heligolandic
Sylt
Mainland
Bökingharde
Mooring
Halligen
Goesharde
Northern
Central
Southern
Karrharde
Strand
Wiedingharde
West Frisian
Hindeloopen
Schiermonnikoog
Westlauwers–Terschellings
Mainland West Frisian
Clay Frisian
Wood Frisian
Westereendersk
Terschelling
Low GermanHistorical forms
Old Saxon
Middle Low German
West Low German
Dutch Low Saxon
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Gronings
Drèents
Gelders-Overijssels
Achterhooks
Sallaans
Urkers
Veluws
Northern Low Saxon
East Frisian Low Saxon
Eastphalian
Westphalian
East Low German
Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch
Brandenburgisch
Central Pomeranian
East Pomeranian
Low Prussian
Plautdietsch / Mennonite Low German
Low FranconianHistorical forms
Frankish
Old Dutch
Middle Dutch
Standard variants
Dutch
Afrikaans (Kaaps)
West Low Franconian
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
French Flemish
Zeelandic
East Flemish
Brabantian
Surinamese Dutch
Jersey Dutch
Mohawk Dutch
Stadsfries/Bildts/Amelands/Midslands
East Low Franconian
Meuse-Rhenish
Limburgish
Southeast Limburgish
High GermanHistorical forms
Old High German
Middle High German
New High German
Early New High German
Standard German
German Standard German
Austrian Standard German
Swiss Standard German
Non-standard variants and creoles
Namibian German
Namibian Black German
Berlinerisch
Unserdeutsch
Barossa German
Rotwelsch
Lotegorisch
Yenish
Yiddish
Eastern
Western
Scots Yiddish
Klezmer-loshn
Lachoudisch
Central GermanWest Central German
Central Franconian
Ripuarian
Colognian
Moselle Franconian
Luxembourgish
Transylvanian Saxon
Hunsrückisch
Hunsrik
Rhine Franconian
Lorraine Franconian
Palatine
Volga German
Pennsylvania Dutch
Hessian
Central Hessian
Amana German
East Central German
Thuringian
Upper Saxon
Erzgebirgisch
Lusatian
Silesian German
High Prussian
Wymysorys
Halcnovian
Upper German
Alemannic in the broad sense
Low Alemannic
Alsatian
Coloniero
High Alemannic
Swiss German
Highest Alemannic
Walser German
Swabian
Bavarian
Northern Bavarian
Central Bavarian
Viennese German
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Hutterite German
South Franconian
East Franconian
Vogtlandian
Langobardic
North and EastNorthHistorical forms
Proto-Norse
Old Norse
Old West Norse
Old East Norse
Old Gutnish
West
Norwegian
Bergensk
Kebabnorsk
Sognamål
Trøndersk
Valdris
Vestlandsk
Vikværsk
Bokmål (written)
Nynorsk (written)
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Faroese
Icelandic
Old Icelandic
Middle Icelandic
Greenlandic Norse
Norn
East
Swedish
Swedish dialects
Danish
Danish dialects
Insular Danish
Jutlandic
South Jutlandic
East Danish
Bornholmsk
Scanian
Southern Schleswig Danish
Gøtudanskt
Perkerdansk
Old Danish
Middle Danish
Dalecarlian
Elfdalian
Gutnish
Mainland Gutnish
Fårö Gutnish
East
Gothic (Crimean Gothic)
Burgundian
Vandalic
PhilologyLanguage subgroups
North
East
West
Elbe (Irminonic)
Weser-Rhine (Istvaeonic)
North Sea (Ingvaeonic)
Northwest
Gotho-Nordic
South
Reconstructed
Proto-Germanic
Proto-Germanic grammar
Germanic parent language
Ancient Belgian language
Diachronic features
Grimm's law
Verner's law
Holtzmann's law
Sievers's law
Kluge's law
Germanic substrate hypothesis
West Germanic gemination
High German consonant shift
Germanic a-mutation
Germanic umlaut
Germanic spirant law
Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law
Great Vowel Shift
Synchronic features
Germanic verb
Germanic strong verb
Germanic weak verb
Preterite-present verb
Grammatischer Wechsel
Indo-European ablaut
Italics indicate extinct languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
^ "Release of the Christian Greek Scriptures in Icelandic". Jw.org. 19 July 2019.
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Icelandic_language&oldid=1171308469"
Categories: Icelandic languageWest Scandinavian languagesNorth Germanic languagesLanguages of IcelandSubject–verb–object languagesVerb-second languagesHidden categories: Pages using the Phonos extensionLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 19Webarchive template wayback linksArticles containing Icelandic-language textArticles containing German-language textCS1 Icelandic-language sources (is)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from July 2019All articles needing additional referencesUse British English from December 2022Use dmy dates from December 2022Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeLanguage articles without reference fieldPages including recorded pronunciationsArticles containing Dutch-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2018Articles containing Greek-language textArticles containing Old English (ca. 450-1100)-language textPages using Sister project links with hidden wikidataArticles with Icelandic-language sources (is)Articles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 20 August 2023, at 09:10 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width