11 captures
31 Dec 2013 - 20 Oct 2018
Nov
DEC
Jul
31
2012
2013
2016
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20131231163459/http://mygov.malaysia.gov.my/EN/Relevant%20Topics/Education%20and%20Learning/Non%20Citizen/nTheNationalEducationSystem/nSecondaryEducation/Pages/SecondarySchoolEducation.aspx
Secondary School Education
 
Search
                              
                            
Malaysian Government
Machinery
Directory
Policy
Tenders
Events
Social Media
Contact Us
Help
English
Bahasa Malaysia
Other Language
Public Opinion
 Survey Feedback & Enquiry Public Complaints (PCB) Polling Centre Public Enquiry Reports - MCMC Public Enquiry Reports - SUHAKAM
Quick Links
 Public Holiday Libraries Weather eSolat Statistic PDRM Directory myGovernment CIO Green Technology Techno Innovation Public Broadband Social Welfare LLM Traffic Chief Secretary of Malaysia (KSN)
Multimedia Links
 Media Photo Gallery Video Audio Publication Download Powerpoint Slides
Secondary School Education
Secondary school education is the second stage of formal education in 
Malaysia. Secondary education for Malaysian students starts at age 13 
and continues for of five to seven years.
Just as in primary school, there is a standardised 
curriculum (Malay version only) for secondary school as well. It was designed and 
implemented to ensure consistency in learning standards. The students’ level 
of understanding is measured through general examinations at the end of each 
year.
In the course of their secondary education, students are required to sit 
for two national examinations set by the
Malaysian Examination Syndicate.  
After their third year (Form Three) students are required to sit for the 
Lower Secondary Assessment (Penilaian 
Menengah Rendah) (PMR) (Malay version only) examination. 
In Form Five they are required to take the Malaysia Certificate of 
Education (Sijil 
Pelajaran Malaysia) (SPM) (Malay version only) examination. 
With the completion of Form Five, students who wish to continue their 
education have the option to either continue with Form Six or further their 
studies with other public or private tertiary institutions. Students who opt 
for Form Six are required to sit for the Malaysia Higher School Certificate 
(Sijil Tinggi Penilaian Malaysia) (STPM) (Malay version only) examination.  
Secondary School Education (Non Citizen).htm
Useful Links
 Ministry of Education Ministry of Higher Education National Institute of Public Administration Malaysian Qualification Agency National Higher Education Fund Corporation Majlis Amanah Rakyat
Relevant Topics
 Doing a Business Education and Learning Employment and Training Health Industry in Malaysia Money, Tax and Investment Security and Safety Society and Life Tour and Travel Transport System
Services
 myServices myForms myBayar myNews MyJobs myGovXchange
 
 
Promotion
Terms and Conditions 
 Privacy Policy 
 Security Policy 
 Copyright Notice 
 FAQ 
 Contact Us 
 About Us 
 Client Charter
                    DISCLAIMER: The Government shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused by the usage of any information obtained from this web site. Best Viewed with resolution of 1024 x 768 (or higher) and supports Internet Explorer 7.0+ .
                    