The long-term effects of bilingualism on children of immigration: student bilingualism and future earnings
UvA
Terms of use
Contact
UvA-DARE (Digital Academic Repository)
               
Home
Advanced Search
Browse
My selection
Search UvA-DARE
Author
O. Agirdag
Year
2014
Title
The long-term effects of bilingualism on children of immigration: student bilingualism and future earnings
Journal
International Journal of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism
Volume | Issue number
17 | 4
Pages (from-to)
449-464
Document type
Article
Faculty
Faculty of Social and Behavioural Sciences (FMG)
Institute
Research Institute of Child Development and Education (RICDE)Abstract
In this study, we examine the largely neglected long-term effects of bilingualism for students with roots in immigration.
                           Our central research question is whether students' bilingual proficiencies have an impact on their future earnings in the
                           USA. For this purpose, we used two different data-sets, i.e. the National Education Longitudinal Study (NELS) and the Children
                           of Immigrants Longitudinal Study (CILS). Based on Latent Class Analysis, we distinguish between three linguistic minority
                           groups: limited bilinguals, balanced bilinguals and English-dominant group. For both CILS and NELS, the results of regression
                           analyses show that balanced bilingual students earn significantly more as adults at the beginning of their career than those
                           linguistic minorities who were dominantly proficient in English only. Even after controlling for cognitive ability, educational
                           attainment and parental socio-economic status, the additional cost of complete linguistic assimilation is estimated at $2100-$3300
                           annually. The NELS-data also suggest that balanced bilingualism has an additional indirect effect through academic attainment.
                           Policy implications of these results are discussed.
                        
URL
go to publisher's site
Language
English
Persistent Identifier
https://hdl.handle.net/11245/1.430343
Downloads
Orhan_Agirdag_-_International_Journal_of_Bilingual_Education_and_Bilingualism.pdf(Final published version)
Disclaimer/Complaints regulations
If you believe that digital publication of certain material infringes any of your rights or (privacy) interests, please let
                        the Library know, stating your reasons. In case of a legitimate complaint, the Library will make the material inaccessible
                        and/or remove it from the website. Please Ask the Library, or send a letter to: Library of the University of Amsterdam, Secretariat, Singel 425, 1012 WP Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
                        You will be contacted as soon as possible.
                     
PrintPrint this pageShareShare via emailShare on facebookShare on linkedinShare on twitter
University library
About UvA-DARE
Disclaimer
Copyright UvA 2014