Amharic - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Background
Toggle Background subsection
1.1Linguistic development theory
2Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
2.1Allophones
2.1.1Examples
3Writing system
Toggle Writing system subsection
3.1Alphasyllabary
3.2Gemination
3.3Punctuation
4Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
4.1Pronouns
4.1.1Personal pronouns
4.1.2Reflexive pronouns
4.1.3Demonstrative pronouns
4.2Nouns
4.2.1Gender
4.2.2Specifiers
4.2.3Plural
4.2.4Archaic forms
4.2.5Definiteness
4.2.6Accusative
4.2.7Nominalisation
4.3Verbs
4.3.1Conjugation
4.3.2Gerund
4.3.2.1Verbal use
4.3.2.2Adverbial use
4.4Adjectives
4.4.1Nominal patterns
4.4.2Denominalizing suffixes
4.4.3Prefix yä
4.4.4Adjective noun complex
5Dialects
6Literature
7Rastafari movement
8Software
9See also
10References
Toggle References subsection
10.1Citations
10.2Grammar
10.3Dictionaries
11External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Amharic
115 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛअंगिकाالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাBanjarBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalegoГӀалгӀайગુજરાતી客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIgboIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתKabɩyɛქართულიKernowekKiswahiliКомиКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuЛезгиLietuviųLigureMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपाल भाषा日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduSesotho sa LeboaSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСловѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟSoomaaligaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยትግርኛTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt吴语Yorùbá粵語Žemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Amharic language)
Semitic language of Ethiopia
Not to be confused with the Aramaic language, Amara language or Arabic language.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Amharic" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Amharicአማርኛ (Amarəñña)Amharic script, fidäl, from Ge'ez scriptPronunciation[amarɨɲːa]Native toEthiopiaEthnicityAmharaSpeakersNative: 32 million (2018)[1]L1+L2: 57 million (2019)[1]Language familyAfro-Asiatic
SemiticWest SemiticSouth SemiticEthiopicSouth EthiopicTransversal South EthiopicAmharic–ArgobbaAmharicWriting systemGeʽez script (Amharic syllabary)Ge'ez BrailleSigned formsSigned Amharic[2]Official statusOfficial language in Ethiopia[3]Regulated byImperial Academy (former)Language codesISO 639-1amISO 639-2amhISO 639-3amhGlottologamha1245Linguasphere12-ACB-aThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Amharic (/æmˈhærɪk/ am-HARR-ik[4][5][6] or /ɑːmˈhɑːrɪk/ ahm-HAR-ik;[7] native name: አማርኛ, romanized: Amarəñña, IPA: [amarɨɲːa] (listeni)) is an Ethiopian Semitic language, which is a subgrouping within the Semitic branch of the Afroasiatic languages. It is spoken as a first language by the Amharas, and also serves as a lingua franca for all other populations residing in major cities and towns of Ethiopia.[8]
The language serves as the official working language of the Ethiopian federal government, and is also the official or working language of several of Ethiopia's federal regions.[9] As of 2018, it has over 32,400,000 mother-tongue speakers and more than 25,100,000 second language speakers, making the total number of speakers over 57,500,000.[1] Amharic is the largest, most widely spoken language in Ethiopia, and the second most spoken mother-tongue in Ethiopia (after Oromo). Amharic is also the second most widely spoken Semitic language in the world (after Arabic).[1][10]
Amharic is written left-to-right using a system that grew out of the Geʽez script.[11] The segmental writing system in which consonant-vowel sequences are written as units is called an abugida (አቡጊዳ).[12] The graphemes are called fidäl (ፊደል), which means "script", "alphabet", "letter", or "character".
There is no universally agreed-upon Romanization of Amharic into Latin script. The Amharic examples in the sections below use one system that is common among linguists specialising in Ethiopian Semitic languages.
Background[edit]
Amharic has been the official working language of Ethiopia, language of the courts, the language of trade and everyday communications and of the military since the late 12th century. The Amhara nobles supported the Zagwe prince Lalibela in his power struggle against his brothers which led him to make Amharic Lessana Negus as well as fill the Amhara nobles in the top positions of his Kingdom.[13]  The appellation of "language of the king" (Ge'ez: ልሳነ ንጉሥ "Lisane Negus")/(Amharic: የንጉሥ ቋንቋ "Ye-Negus QwanQwa") and its use in the royal court are otherwise traced to the Amhara Emperor Yekuno Amlak.[14][15] It is one of the official languages of Ethiopia, together with Oromo, Somali, Afar, and Tigrinya. Amharic is an Afro-Asiatic language of the Southwest Semitic group and is related to Geʽez, or Ethiopic, the liturgical language of the Ethiopian Orthodox church; Amharic is written in a slightly modified form of the alphabet used for writing the Geʽez language. There are 34 basic characters, each of which has seven forms depending on which vowel is to be pronounced in the syllable. There are also 49 "wa" letters, which form compound sounds involving "w." All together, the alphabet has some 280 letters. Until 2020 Amharic was the sole official language of Ethiopia.[16][17][3][18][19] The 2007 census reported that Amharic was spoken by 21.6 million native speakers in Ethiopia.[20] More recent sources state the number of first-language speakers in 2018 as nearly 32 million, with another 25 million second-language speakers in Ethiopia.[1] Additionally, 3 million emigrants outside of Ethiopia speak the language.[citation needed] Most of the Ethiopian Jewish communities in Ethiopia and Israel speak Amharic.[21][citation needed][22] Furthermore, Amharic is considered a holy language by the Rastafari religion and is widely used among its followers worldwide.
Linguistic development theory[edit]
Early Afro-Asiatic populations speaking proto-Semitic, proto-Cushitic and proto-Omotic languages would have diverged by the fourth or fifth millennium BC. Shortly afterwards, the proto-Cushitic and proto-Omotic groups would have settled in the Ethiopian highlands, with the proto-Semitic speakers crossing the Sinai Peninsula into Asia Minor. A later return movement of peoples from South Arabia would have introduced the Semitic languages to Ethiopia.[23] Based on archaeological evidence, the presence of Semitic speakers in the territory date to some time before 500 BC.[24] Linguistic analysis suggests the presence of Semitic languages in Ethiopia as early as 2000 BC. Levine indicates that by the end of that millennium, the core inhabitants of Greater Ethiopia would have consisted of dark-skinned Caucasoid ("Afro-Mediterranean") agropastoralists speaking Afro-Asiatic languages of the Semitic, Cushitic and Omotic branches.[23]
Other scholars such as Messay Kebede and Daniel E. Alemu argue that migration across the Red Sea was defined by reciprocal exchange, if it even occurred at all, and that Ethio-Semitic-speaking ethnic groups should not be characterized as foreign invaders.[25][26]
Amharic is a South Ethio-Semitic language, along with Gurage, Argobba, Harari, and others.[27][28][29] Due to the social stratification of the time, the Cushitic Agaw adopted the South Ethio-Semitic language and eventually absorbed the Semitic population.[30][31][32][33] Amharic thus developed with a Cushitic substratum and a Semitic superstratum.[34][35] The northernmost South Ethio-Semitic speakers, or the proto-Amhara, remained in constant contact with their North Ethio-Semitic neighbors, evidenced by linguistic analysis and oral traditions.[36][37] A 7th century southward shift of the center of gravity of the Kingdom of Aksum and the ensuing integration and Christianization of the proto-Amhara also resulted in a high prevalence of Geʽez sourced lexicon in Amharic.[38][39][40] Some time after the 9th century AD, Amharic diverged from its closest relative, Argobba, probably due to religious differences as the Argobba adopted Islam.[41]
In 1983, Lionel Bender proposed that Amharic may have been constructed as a pidgin as early as the 4th century AD to enable communication between Aksumite soldiers speaking Semitic, Cushitic, and Omotic languages, but this hypothesis has not garnered widespread acceptance. The preservation in Old Amharic of VSO word order and gutturals typical of Semitic languages, Cushitic influences shared with other Ethio-Semitic languages (especially those of the Southern branch), and the number of geographically distinct Cushitic languages that have influenced Amharic at different points in time (e.g. Oromo influence beginning in the 16th century) support a natural evolution of Amharic from a Proto-Ethio-Semitic language with considerable Cushitic influences (similar to Gurage, Tigrinya, etc.).[42][27][43]
Phonology[edit]
Consonants[44]
Labial
Alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Labio-Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
Plosive
voiceless
p
t
k
kʷ
ʔ
voiced
b
d
ɡ
ɡʷ
ejective
pʼ
tʼ
kʼ
kʷʼ
Affricate
voiceless
t͡ʃ
voiced
d͡ʒ
ejective
t͡sʼ
t͡ʃʼ
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
ʃ
h
voiced
z
ʒ
Approximant
(β̞)
l
j
w
Rhotic
ɾ (r)
The Amharic ejective consonants correspond to the Proto-Semitic "emphatic consonants." In the Ethiopianist tradition they are often transcribed with a dot below the letter. The vowels of Amharic on a vowel chart.[44] Vowels in parentheses are allophones of /ɨ/ and /ə/.
Vowels[44]
Front
Central
Back
High
i
ɨ ⟨ə⟩
u
Mid
e
ə ⟨ä⟩
o
Low
a
The notation of central vowels in the Ethiopianist tradition is shown in angled brackets.
Allophones[edit]
The voiced bilabial plosive /b/ is phonetically realized as a voiced labial approximant [β̞] medially between sonorants in non-geminated form. The affricate ejective /t͡sʼ/ is also heard as a fricative ejective [sʼ], but is mostly heard as the affricate sound [t͡sʼ]. The rhotic consonant is realized as a trill when geminated and a tap otherwise. The closed central unrounded vowel ⟨ə⟩ /ɨ/ and mid-central vowel ⟨ä⟩ /ə/ are generally fronted to [ɪ] and [ɛ], respectively, following palatal consonants, and generally retracted and rounded to [ʊ] and [ɔ], respectively, following labialized velar consonants.[44]
Examples[edit]
Ge'ez
Romanized
IPA
Gloss
ከበሮ
käbäro
[kəβ̞əɾo]
drum
ብር
bərr
[bɨr]
Ethiopian birr
ይህ
yəh
[jɪh]
this
የማን
yäman
[jɛman]
whose
ውስጥ
wəsṭ
[wʊstʼ]
in
ወንድ
wänd
[wɔnd]
man
Writing system[edit]
See also: Ge'ez script and Amharic Braille
The Ethiopic (or Ge'ez) writing system is visible on the side of this Ethiopian Airlines Fokker 50: it reads "Ethiopia's": የኢትዮጵያ ye-ʾityop̣p̣ya.
The Amharic script is an abugida, and the graphemes of the Amharic writing system are called fidäl.[45] It is derived from a modification of the Ge'ez script.[11] Each character represents a consonant+vowel sequence, but the basic shape of each character is determined by the consonant, which is modified for the vowel. Some consonant phonemes are written by more than one series of characters: /ʔ/, /s/, /tsʼ/, and /h/ (the last one has four distinct letter forms). This is because these fidäl originally represented distinct sounds, but phonological changes merged them.[45] The citation form for each series is the consonant+ä form, i.e. the first column of the fidäl. The Amharic script is included in Unicode, and glyphs are included in fonts available with major operating systems.
A modern usage of Amharic: the label of a Coca-Cola bottle. The script reads ኮካ-ኮላ (koka-kola).
Alphasyllabary[edit]
Chart of Amharic fidels[46]
 
ä/e[ə]
u
i
a
ē
ə[ɨ], ∅
o
ʷä/ue[ʷə]
ʷi/ui
ʷa/ua
ʷē/uē
ʷə[ʷɨ/î]
h
/h/
ሀ
ሁ
ሂ
ሃ
ሄ
ህ
ሆ
 
l
/l/
ለ
ሉ
ሊ
ላ
ሌ
ል
ሎ
 
ሏ
 
ḥ
/h/
ሐ
ሑ
ሒ
ሓ
ሔ
ሕ
ሖ
 
ሗ
 
m
/m/
መ
ሙ
ሚ
ማ
ሜ
ም
ሞ
 
ሟ
 
ś
/s/
ሠ
ሡ
ሢ
ሣ
ሤ
ሥ
ሦ
 
ሧ
 
r
/r/
ረ
ሩ
ሪ
ራ
ሬ
ር
ሮ
 
ሯ
 
s
/s/
ሰ
ሱ
ሲ
ሳ
ሴ
ስ
ሶ
 
ሷ
 
š
/ʃ/
ሸ
ሹ
ሺ
ሻ
ሼ
ሽ
ሾ
 
ሿ
 
q
/kʼ/
ቀ
ቁ
ቂ
ቃ
ቄ
ቅ
ቆ
ቈ
ቊ
ቋ
ቌ
ቍ
b
/b/
በ
ቡ
ቢ
ባ
ቤ
ብ
ቦ
 
ቧ
 
v
/β/
ቨ
ቩ
ቪ
ቫ
ቬ
ቭ
ቮ
 
ቯ
 
t
/t/
ተ
ቱ
ቲ
ታ
ቴ
ት
ቶ
 
ቷ
 
č
/tʃ/
ቸ
ቹ
ቺ
ቻ
ቼ
ች
ቾ
 
ቿ
 
ḫ
/h/
ኀ
ኁ
ኂ
ኃ
ኄ
ኅ
ኆ
ኈ
ኊ
ኋ
ኌ
ኍ
n
/n/
ነ
ኑ
ኒ
ና
ኔ
ን
ኖ
 
ኗ
 
ñ
/ɲ/
ኘ
ኙ
ኚ
ኛ
ኜ
ኝ
ኞ
 
ኟ
 
ʼ
/ʔ/
አ
ኡ
ኢ
ኣ
ኤ
እ
ኦ
 
ኧ
 
k
/k/
ከ
ኩ
ኪ
ካ
ኬ
ክ
ኮ
ኰ
ኲ
ኳ
ኴ
ኵ
x
/h/
ኸ
ኹ
ኺ
ኻ
ኼ
ኽ
ኾ
ዀ
ዂ
ዃ
ዄ
ዅ
w
/w/
ወ
ዉ
ዊ
ዋ
ዌ
ው
ዎ
 
ʽ
/ʔ/
ዐ
ዑ
ዒ
ዓ
ዔ
ዕ
ዖ
 
z
/z/
ዘ
ዙ
ዚ
ዛ
ዜ
ዝ
ዞ
 
ዟ
 
ž
/ʒ/
ዠ
ዡ
ዢ
ዣ
ዤ
ዥ
ዦ
 
ዧ
 
y
/j/
የ
ዩ
ዪ
ያ
ዬ
ይ
ዮ
 
d
/d/
ደ
ዱ
ዲ
ዳ
ዴ
ድ
ዶ
 
ዷ
 
ǧ
/dʒ/
ጀ
ጁ
ጂ
ጃ
ጄ
ጅ
ጆ
 
ጇ
 
g
/ɡ/
ገ
ጉ
ጊ
ጋ
ጌ
ግ
ጎ
ጐ
ጒ
ጓ
ጔ
ጕ
ṭ
/tʼ/
ጠ
ጡ
ጢ
ጣ
ጤ
ጥ
ጦ
 
ጧ
 
č̣
/tʃʼ/
ጨ
ጩ
ጪ
ጫ
ጬ
ጭ
ጮ
 
ጯ
 
p̣
/pʼ/
ጰ
ጱ
ጲ
ጳ
ጴ
ጵ
ጶ
 
ጷ
 
ṣ
/tsʼ/
ጸ
ጹ
ጺ
ጻ
ጼ
ጽ
ጾ
 
ጿ
 
ṣ́
/tsʼ/
ፀ
ፁ
ፂ
ፃ
ፄ
ፅ
ፆ
 
f
/f/
ፈ
ፉ
ፊ
ፋ
ፌ
ፍ
ፎ
 
ፏ
 
p
/p/
ፐ
ፑ
ፒ
ፓ
ፔ
ፕ
ፖ
 
ፗ
 
 
ä/e[ə]
u
i
a
ē
ə[ɨ], ∅
o
ʷ/ue[ʷə/ū]
ʷi/ui
ʷa/ua
ʷē/uē
ʷə[ʷɨ/ū]
Gemination[edit]
As in most other Ethiopian Semitic languages, gemination is contrastive in Amharic.  That is, consonant length can distinguish words from one another; for example, alä 'he said', allä 'there is'; yǝmätall 'he hits', yǝmmättall 'he will be hit'.  Gemination is not indicated in Amharic orthography, but Amharic readers typically do not find this to be a problem.  This property of the writing system is analogous to the vowels of Arabic and Hebrew or the tones of many Bantu languages, which are not normally indicated in writing. Ethiopian novelist Haddis Alemayehu, who was an advocate of Amharic orthography reform, indicated gemination in his novel Love to the Grave by placing a dot above the characters whose consonants were geminated, but this practice is rare.
Punctuation[edit]
Punctuation includes the following:
፠ section mark
፡ word separator
። full stop (period)
፣ comma
፤ semicolon
፥ colon
፦ preface colon (introduces speech from a descriptive prefix)
፧ question mark
፨ paragraph separator
Grammar[edit]
Simple Amharic sentences
One may construct simple Amharic sentences by using a subject and a predicate. Here are a few simple sentences:[47]
ኢትዮጵያʾItyop̣p̣yaEthiopiaአፍሪካʾAfrikaAfricaውስጥwǝsṭinናትnatisኢትዮጵያ አፍሪካ ውስጥ ናትʾItyop̣p̣ya ʾAfrika wǝsṭ nat{Ethiopia} {Africa} {in} {is}'Ethiopia is in Africa.'
ልጁLǝǧ-uthe boyተኝቷልtäññǝtʷall.asleep isልጁ ተኝቷልLǝǧ-u täññǝtʷall.{the boy} {asleep is}'The boy is asleep.' (-u is a definite article. Lǝǧ is 'boy'. Lǝǧu is 'the boy')
አየሩAyyäruthe weatherደስdässpleasantይላልyǝlall.feelsአየሩ ደስ ይላልAyyäru däss yǝlall.{the weather} pleasant feels'The weather feels pleasant.'
እሱƎssuheወደwädätoከተማkätämacityመጣmäṭṭacameእሱ ወደ ከተማ መጣƎssu wädä kätäma mäṭṭahe to city {came}'He came to the city.'
Pronouns[edit]
Personal pronouns[edit]
Amharic grammar distinguishes person, number, and often gender. This includes personal pronouns such as English I, Amharic እኔ ǝne; English she, Amharic እሷ ǝsswa. As in other Semitic languages, the same distinctions appear in three other places in their grammar.
Subject–verb agreement
All Amharic verbs agree with their subjects; that is, the person, number, and (in the second- and third-person singular) gender of the subject of the verb are marked by suffixes or prefixes on the verb. Because the affixes that signal subject agreement vary greatly with the particular verb tense/aspect/mood, they are normally not considered to be pronouns and are discussed elsewhere in this article under verb conjugation.
Object pronoun suffixes
Amharic verbs often have additional morphology that indicates the person, number, and (second- and third-person singular) gender of the object of the verb.
አልማዝንalmazǝnAlmaz-ACCአየኋትayyähʷ-atI saw herአልማዝን አየኋትalmazǝn ayyähʷ-atAlmaz-ACC {I saw her}'I saw Almaz.'
While morphemes such as -at in this example are sometimes described as signaling object agreement, analogous to subject agreement, they are more often thought of as object pronoun suffixes because, unlike the markers of subject agreement, they do not vary significantly with the tense/aspect/mood of the verb.  For arguments of the verb other than the subject or the object, there are two separate sets of related suffixes, one with a benefactive meaning (to, for), the other with an adversative or locative meaning (against, to the detriment of, on, at).
ለአልማዝläʾalmazfor-Almazበሩንbärrundoor-DEF-ACCከፈትኩላትkäffätku-llatI opened for herለአልማዝ በሩን ከፈትኩላትläʾalmaz bärrun käffätku-llatfor-Almaz door-DEF-ACC {I opened for her}'I opened the door for Almaz.'
በአልማዝbäʾalmazon-Almazበሩንbärrundoor-DEF-ACCዘጋሁባትzäggahu-bbatI closed on herበአልማዝ በሩን ዘጋሁባትbäʾalmaz bärrun zäggahu-bbaton-Almaz door-DEF-ACC {I closed on her}'I closed the door on Almaz (to her detriment).'
Morphemes such as -llat and -bbat in these examples will be referred to in this article as prepositional object pronoun suffixes because they correspond to prepositional phrases such as for her and on her, to distinguish them from the direct object pronoun suffixes such as -at 'her'.
Possessive suffixes
Amharic has a further set of morphemes that are suffixed to nouns, signalling possession: ቤት bet 'house', ቤቴ bete, my house, ቤቷ; betwa, her house.
In each of these four aspects of the grammar, independent pronouns, subject–verb agreement, object pronoun suffixes, and possessive suffixes, Amharic distinguishes eight combinations of person, number, and gender. For first person, there is a two-way distinction between singular (I) and plural (we), whereas for second and third persons, there is a distinction between singular and plural and within the singular a further distinction between masculine and feminine (you m. sg., you f. sg., you pl., he, she, they).
Amharic is a pro-drop language: neutral sentences in which no element is emphasized normally omit independent pronouns: ኢትዮጵያዊ ነው ʾityop̣p̣yawi näw 'he's Ethiopian', ጋበዝኳት gabbäzkwat 'I invited her'.  The Amharic words that translate he, I, and her do not appear in these sentences as independent words. However, in such cases, the person, number, and (second- or third-person singular) gender of the subject and object are marked on the verb.  When the subject or object in such sentences is emphasized, an independent pronoun is used: እሱ ኢትዮጵያዊ ነው ǝssu ʾityop̣p̣yawi näw 'he's Ethiopian', እኔ ጋበዝኳት ǝne gabbäzkwat 'I invited her', እሷን ጋበዝኳት ǝsswan gabbäzkwat 'I invited her'.
The table below shows alternatives for many of the forms.
The choice depends on what precedes the form in question, usually whether this is a vowel or a consonant, for example, for the first-person singular possessive suffix, አገሬ agär-e 'my country', ገላዬ gäla-ye 'my body'.
Amharic Personal Pronouns
English
Independent
Object pronoun suffixes
Possessive suffixes
Direct
Prepositional
Benefactive
Locative/Adversative
I
እኔǝne
-(ä/ǝ)ñ
-(ǝ)llǝñ
-(ǝ)bbǝñ
-(y)e
you (m. sg.)
አንተantä
-(ǝ)h
-(ǝ)llǝh
-(ǝ)bbǝh
-(ǝ)h
you (f. sg.)
አንቺanči
-(ǝ)š
-(ǝ)llǝš
-(ǝ)bbǝš
-(ǝ)š
you (polite)
እርስዎərswo
-(ǝ)wo(t)
-(ǝ)llǝwo(t)
-(ǝ)bbǝwo(t)
-wo
he
እሱǝssu
-(ä)w, -t
-(ǝ)llät
-(ǝ)bbät
-(w)u
she
እሷǝsswa
-at
-(ǝ)llat
-(ǝ)bbat
-wa
s/he (polite)
እሳቸውǝssaččäw
-aččäw
-(ǝ)llaččäw
-(ǝ)bbaččäw
-aččäw
we
እኛǝñña
-(ä/ǝ)n
-(ǝ)llǝn
-(ǝ)bbǝn
-aččǝn
you (pl.)
እናንተǝnnantä
-aččǝhu
-(ǝ)llaččǝhu
-(ǝ)bbaččǝhu
-aččǝhu
they
እነሱǝnnässu
-aččäw
-(ǝ)llaččäw
-(ǝ)bbaččäw
-aččäw
Within second- and third-person singular, there are two additional polite independent pronouns, for reference to people to whom the speaker wishes to show respect. This usage is an example of the so-called T–V distinction that is made in many languages. The polite pronouns in Amharic are እርስዎ ǝrswo 'you (sg. polite)'. and እሳቸው ǝssaččäw  's/he (polite)'.  Although these forms are singular semantically—they refer to one person—they correspond to third-person plural elsewhere in the grammar, as is common in other T–V systems.  For the possessive pronouns, however, the polite 2nd person has the special suffix -wo 'your sg. pol.'
For possessive pronouns (mine, yours, etc.), Amharic adds the independent pronouns to the preposition yä- 'of': የኔ yäne 'mine', ያንተ yantä 'yours m. sg.', ያንቺ yanči 'yours f. sg.', የሷ yässwa 'hers', etc.
Reflexive pronouns[edit]
For reflexive pronouns ('myself', 'yourself', etc.), Amharic adds the possessive suffixes to the noun ራስ ras 'head': ራሴ rase 'myself', ራሷ raswa 'herself', etc.
Demonstrative pronouns[edit]
Like English, Amharic makes a two-way distinction between near ('this, these') and far ('that, those') demonstrative expressions (pronouns, adjectives, adverbs).  Besides number, Amharic – unlike English – also distinguishes between the masculine and the feminine genders in the singular.
Amharic demonstrative pronouns
Number, Gender
Near
Far
Singular
Masculine
ይህ yǝh(ǝ)
ያ ya
Feminine
ይቺ yǝčči, ይህች yǝhǝčč
ያቺ yačči
Plural
እነዚህ ǝnnäzzih
እነዚያ ǝnnäzziya
There are also separate demonstratives for formal reference, comparable to the formal personal pronouns: እኚህ ǝññih 'this, these (formal)' and እኒያ ǝnniya 'that, those (formal)'.
The singular pronouns have combining forms beginning with zz instead of y when they follow a preposition: ስለዚህ sǝläzzih 'because of this; therefore', እንደዚያ ǝndäzziya 'like that'.  The plural demonstratives, like the second and third person plural personal pronouns, are formed by adding the plural prefix እነ ǝnnä- to the singular masculine forms.
Nouns[edit]
Amharic nouns can be primary or derived. A noun like ǝgǝr 'foot, leg' is primary, and a noun like ǝgr-äñña 'pedestrian' is a derived noun.
Gender[edit]
Amharic nouns can have a masculine or feminine gender. There are several ways to express gender. An example is the old suffix -t for femininity. This suffix is no longer productive and is limited to certain patterns and some isolated nouns. Nouns and adjectives ending in -awi usually take the suffix -t to form the feminine form, e.g. ityop̣p̣ya-(a)wi 'Ethiopian (m.)' vs. ityop̣p̣ya-wi-t 'Ethiopian (f.)'; sämay-awi 'heavenly (m.)' vs. sämay-awi-t 'heavenly (f.)'. This suffix also occurs in nouns and adjective based on the pattern qǝt(t)ul, e.g. nǝgus 'king' vs. nǝgǝs-t 'queen' and qǝddus 'holy (m.)' vs. qǝddǝs-t 'holy (f.)'.
Some nouns and adjectives take a feminine marker -it: lǝǧ 'child, boy' vs. lǝǧ-it 'girl'; bäg 'sheep, ram' vs. bäg-it 'ewe'; šǝmagǝlle 'senior, elder (m.)' vs. šǝmagǝll-it 'old woman'; ṭoṭa 'monkey' vs. ṭoṭ-it 'monkey (f.)'. Some nouns have this feminine marker without having a masculine opposite, e.g. šärär-it 'spider', azur-it 'whirlpool, eddy'. There are, however, also nouns having this -it suffix that are treated as masculine: säraw-it 'army', nägar-it 'big drum'.
The feminine gender is not only used to indicate biological gender, but may also be used to express smallness, e.g. bet-it-u 'the little house' (lit. house-FEM-DEF). The feminine marker can also serve to express tenderness or sympathy.
Specifiers[edit]
Amharic has special words that can be used to indicate the gender of people and animals. For people, wänd is used for masculinity and set for femininity, e.g. wänd lǝǧ 'boy', set lǝǧ 'girl'; wänd hakim 'physician, doctor (m.)', set hakim 'physician, doctor (f.)'.
For animals, the words täbat, awra, or wänd (less usual) can be used to indicate masculine gender, and anəst or set to indicate feminine gender. Examples: täbat ṭǝǧǧa 'calf (m.)'; awra doro 'cock (rooster)'; set doro 'hen'.
Plural[edit]
The plural suffix -očč is used to express plurality of nouns. Some morphophonological alternations occur depending on the final consonant or vowel. For nouns ending in a consonant, plain -očč is used: bet 'house' becomes bet-očč 'houses'. For nouns ending in a back vowel (-a, -o, -u), the suffix takes the form -ʷočč, e.g. wǝšša 'dog', wǝšša-ʷočč 'dogs'; käbäro 'drum', käbäro-ʷočč 'drums'. Nouns that end in a front vowel pluralize using -ʷočč or -yočč, e.g. ṣähafi 'scholar', ṣähafi-ʷočč or ṣähafi-yočč 'scholars'. Another possibility for nouns ending in a vowel is to delete the vowel and use plain očč, as in wǝšš-očč 'dogs'.
Besides using the normal external plural (-očč), nouns and adjectives can be pluralized by way of reduplicating one of the radicals. For example, wäyzäro 'lady' can take the normal plural, yielding wäyzär-očč, but wäyzazər 'ladies' is also found (Leslau 1995:173).
Some kinship-terms have two plural forms with a slightly different meaning. For example, wändǝmm 'brother' can be pluralized as wändǝmm-očč 'brothers' but also as wändǝmmam-ač 'brothers of each other'. Likewise, ǝhǝt 'sister' can be pluralized as ǝhǝt-očč ('sisters'), but also as ǝtǝmm-am-ač 'sisters of each other'.
In compound words, the plural marker is suffixed to the second noun: betä krǝstiyan 'church' (lit. house of Christian) becomes betä krǝstiyan-očč 'churches'.
Archaic forms[edit]
Amsalu Aklilu has pointed out that Amharic has inherited a large number of old plural forms directly from Classical Ethiopic (Ge'ez) (Amharic: gǝ'ǝz) (Leslau 1995:172). There are basically two archaic pluralising strategies, called external and internal plural. The external plural consists of adding the suffix -an (usually masculine) or -at (usually feminine) to the singular form. The internal plural employs vowel quality or apophony to pluralize words, similar to English man vs. men and goose vs. geese. Sometimes combinations of the two systems are found. The archaic plural forms are sometimes used to form new plurals, but this is only considered grammatical in more established cases.
Examples of the external plural: mämhǝr 'teacher', mämhǝr-an; ṭäbib 'wise person', ṭäbib-an; kahǝn 'priest', kahǝn-at; qal 'word', qal-at.
Examples of the internal plural: dǝngǝl 'virgin', dänagǝl; hagär 'land', ahǝgur.
Examples of combined systems: nǝgus 'king', nägäs-t; kokäb 'star', käwakǝb-t;  mäṣǝhaf 'book', mäṣahǝf-t.
Definiteness[edit]
If a noun is definite or specified, this is expressed by a suffix, the article, which is -u or -w for masculine singular nouns and -wa, -itwa or -ätwa for feminine singular nouns. For example:
masculine sg
masculine sg definite
feminine sg
feminine sg definite
ቤትbetቤትbethouse
ቤቱbet-uቤቱbet-uthe house
ሠራተኛsärratäññaሠራተኛsärratäññamaid
ሠራተኛዋsärratäñña-waሠራተኛዋsärratäñña-wathe maid
In singular forms, this article distinguishes between the male and female gender; in plural forms this distinction is absent, and all definites are marked with -u, e.g. bet-očč-u 'houses', gäräd-očč-u 'maids'. As in the plural, morphophonological alternations occur depending on the final consonant or vowel.
Accusative[edit]
Amharic has an accusative marker, -(ə)n.  Its use is related to the definiteness of the object, thus Amharic shows differential object marking.  In general, if the object is definite, possessed, or a proper noun, the accusative must be used, but if the direct object is not determined, the accusative marker is generally not used. (Leslau 1995: pp. 181–182 ff.).
ልጁlǝǧ-uchild-M.DEFውሻውንwǝšša-w-ǝndog-DEF-ACCአባረረabbarrär-ä.drove.away-3MS.SUBJልጁ ውሻውን አባረረlǝǧ-u wǝšša-w-ǝn abbarrär-ä.child-M.DEF dog-DEF-ACC drove.away-3MS.SUBJ'The boy drove the dog away.'
ውሻዋwǝšša-wadog-F.DEFበግbägsheepነከሰችnäkkäs-äčč.bit-3FS.SUBJውሻዋ በግ ነከሰችwǝšša-wa bäg näkkäs-äčč.dog-F.DEF sheep bit-3FS.SUBJ'The dog (F) bit a sheep.'
The accusative suffix is usually placed after the first word of the noun phrase:
ይህንYǝh-ǝnthis-ACCሰዓትsä'atwatchገዛgäzz-a.bought-3MS.SUBJይህን ሰዓት ገዛYǝh-ǝn sä'at gäzz-a.this-ACC watch bought-3MS.SUBJ'He bought this watch.'
Nominalisation[edit]
Amharic has various ways to derive nouns from other words or other nouns. One way of nominalising consists of a form of vowel agreement (similar vowels on similar places) inside the three-radical structures typical of Semitic languages. For example:
CəCäC: – ṭǝbäb 'wisdom'; hǝmäm 'sickness'
CəCCaC-e: – wǝffar-e 'obesity'; č'ǝkkan-e 'cruelty'
CəCC-ät: – rǝṭb-ät 'moistness'; 'ǝwq-ät 'knowledge'; wəfr-ät  'fatness'.
There are also several nominalising suffixes.
-ǝnna: – 'relation'; krǝst-ənna 'Christianity'; sənf-ənna 'laziness'; qes-ǝnna 'priesthood'.
-e, suffixed to place name X, yields 'a person from X': goǧǧam-e 'someone from Gojjam'.
-äñña and -täñña serve to express profession, or some relationship with the base noun: ǝgr-äñña 'pedestrian' (from ǝgǝr 'foot'); bärr-äñña 'gate-keeper' (from bärr 'gate').
-ǝnnät and -nnät – '-ness'; ityop̣p̣yawi-nnät 'Ethiopianness'; qǝrb-ənnät 'nearness' (from qǝrb 'near').
Verbs[edit]
Conjugation[edit]
As in other Semitic languages, Amharic verbs use a combination of prefixes and suffixes to indicate the subject, distinguishing 3 persons, two numbers, and (in all persons except first-person and "honorific" pronouns) two genders.
Gerund[edit]
Along with the infinitive and the present participle, the gerund is one of three non-finite verb forms. The infinitive is a nominalized verb, the present participle expresses incomplete action, and the gerund expresses completed action, e.g. ali məsa bälto wädä gäbäya hedä 'Ali, having eaten lunch, went to the market'.
There are several usages of the gerund depending on its morpho-syntactic features.
Verbal use[edit]
The gerund functions as the head of a subordinate clause (see the example above). There may be more than one gerund in one sentence.
The gerund is used to form the following tense forms:
present perfect    nägro -all/näbbär 'He has said'.
past perfect       nägro näbbär 'He had said'.
possible perfect   nägro yǝhonall 'He (probably) has said'.
Adverbial use[edit]
The gerund can be used as an adverb:
alfo alfo yǝsǝqall 'Sometimes he laughs'. (From ማለፍ 'to pass')
Adjectives[edit]
Adjectives are words or constructions used to qualify nouns. Adjectives in Amharic can be formed in several ways: they can be based on nominal patterns, or derived from nouns, verbs and other parts of speech. Adjectives can be nominalized by way of suffixing the nominal article (see Nouns above). Amharic has few primary adjectives. Some examples are dägg 'kind, generous', dǝda 'mute, dumb, silent', bič̣a 'yellow'.
Nominal patterns[edit]
CäCCaC – käbbad 'heavy'; läggas 'generous'
CäC(C)iC – räqiq 'fine, subtle'; addis 'new'
CäC(C)aCa – säbara 'broken'; ṭämama 'bent, wrinkled'
CəC(C)əC – bǝlǝh 'intelligent, smart'; dǝbbǝq'  'hidden'
CəC(C)uC – kǝbur 'worthy, dignified'; ṭǝqur 'black'; qəddus 'holy'
Denominalizing suffixes[edit]
-äñña – hayl-äñña 'powerful' (from hayl 'power'); ǝwnät-äñña 'true' (from ǝwnät 'truth')
-täñña – aläm-täñña 'secular' (from aläm 'world')
-awi – lǝbb-awi 'intelligent' (from lǝbb 'heart'); mǝdr-awi 'earthly' (from mǝdr 'earth'); haymanot-awi 'religious' (from haymanot 'religion')
Prefix yä[edit]
yä-kätäma 'urban' (lit. 'from the city'); yä-krǝstǝnna 'Christian' (lit. 'of Christianity'); yä-wǝšät 'wrong' (lit. 'of falsehood').
Adjective noun complex[edit]
The adjective and the noun together are called the 'adjective noun complex'. In Amharic, the adjective precedes the noun, with the verb last; e.g. kǝfu geta 'a bad master'; təlləq bet särra (lit. big house he-built) 'he built a big house'.
If the adjective noun complex is definite, the definite article is suffixed to the adjective and not to the noun, e.g. tǝllǝq-u bet (lit. big-def house) 'the big house'. In a possessive construction, the adjective takes the definite article, and the noun takes the pronominal possessive suffix, e.g. tǝllǝq-u bet-e (lit. big-def house-my) "my big house".
When enumerating adjectives using -nna 'and', both adjectives take the definite article: qonǧo-wa-nna astäway-wa lǝǧ mäṭṭačč (lit. pretty-def-and intelligent-def girl came) "the pretty and intelligent girl came". In the case of an indefinite plural adjective noun complex, the noun is plural and the adjective may be used in singular or in plural form. Thus, 'diligent students' can be rendered tǝgu tämariʷočč (lit. diligent student-PLUR) or təguʷočč tämariʷočč (lit. diligent-PLUR student-PLUR).
Dialects[edit]
Not much has been published about Amharic dialect differences. All dialects are mutually intelligible, but certain minor variations are noted.[48][49]
Literature[edit]
See also: List of Amharic writers
The Ethiopian anthem (since 1992) in Amharic, done on manual typewriter.
The oldest surviving examples of written Amharic date back to the reigns of the 14th century Emperor of Ethiopia Amda Seyon I and his successors, who commissioned a number of poems known as "የወታደሮች መዝሙር" (Soldier songs) glorifying them and their troops. There is a growing body of literature in Amharic in many genres. This literature includes government proclamations and records, educational books, religious material, novels, poetry, proverb collections, dictionaries (monolingual and bilingual), technical manuals, medical topics, etc. The Bible was first translated into Amharic by Abu Rumi in the early 19th century, but other translations of the Bible into Amharic have been done since.  The most famous Amharic novel is Fiqir Iske Meqabir (transliterated various ways) by Haddis Alemayehu (1909–2003), translated into English by Sisay Ayenew with the title Love unto Crypt, published in 2005 (ISBN 978-1-4184-9182-6).
Rastafari movement[edit]
The word Rastafari comes from Ras Täfäri, the pre-regnal title of Haile Selassie, composed of the Amharic words Ras (literally "Head", an Ethiopian title equivalent to duke) and Haile Selassie's pre-regnal name, Tafari.[50]
Many Rastafarians learn Amharic as a second language, as they consider it to be sacred. After Haile Selassie's 1966 visit to Jamaica, study circles in Amharic were organized in Jamaica as part of the ongoing exploration of Pan-African identity and culture.[51] Various reggae artists in the 1970s, including Ras Michael, Lincoln Thompson and Misty in Roots, have sung in Amharic, thus bringing the language to a wider audience. The Abyssinians, a reggae group, have also used Amharic, most notably in the song "Satta Massagana". The title was believed to mean "give thanks"; however, this phrase means "he thanked" or "he praised", as säṭṭä means "he gave", and amässägänä "thanks" or "praise".  The correct way to say "give thanks" in Amharic is one word, misgana. The word "satta" has become a common expression in the Rastafari dialect of English, Iyaric, meaning "to sit down and partake".[52]
Software[edit]
Amharic is supported on most major Linux distributions, including Fedora and Ubuntu.
The Amharic script is included in Unicode, in the Ethiopic block (U+1200 – U+137F). Nyala font is included on Windows 7 (see YouTube video)[53] and Vista (Amharic Language Interface Pack)[54] to display and edit using the Amharic Script. In February 2010, Microsoft released its Windows Vista operating system in Amharic, enabling Amharic speakers to use its operating system in their language.
Google added Amharic to its Language Tools[55] which allows typing Amharic Script online without an Amharic Keyboard. Since 2004 Wikipedia has had an Amharic language Wiki that uses Ethiopic script.
See also[edit]
Help:IPA/Amharic
References[edit]
Citations[edit]
^ a b c d e Amharic at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ Morgan, Mike (9 April 2010). "Complexities of Ethiopian Sign Language Contact Phenomena & Implications for AAU". L'Alliance française et le Centre Français des Études Éthiopiennes. Retrieved 3 June 2017.
^ a b Shaban, Abdurahman. "One to five: Ethiopia gets four new federal working languages". Africa News. Archived from the original on 15 December 2020. Retrieved 22 January 2021.
^ Laurie Bauer, 2007, The Linguistics Student's Handbook, Edinburgh; Collins English Dictionary (2003), Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary (2010)
^ "Amharic". Oxford English Dictionary (Online ed.). Oxford University Press. (Subscription or participating institution membership required.)
^ "Amharic". Merriam-Webster Dictionary.
^ "Amharic". dictionary.com. Retrieved 10 August 2013.
^ Meyer, Ronny (2011). "The Role of Amharic as a National Language and an African lingua franca". In Stefan Weninger (ed.). The Semitic Languages. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton. pp. 1212–1220.
^ Gebremichael, M. (2011). Federalism and conflict management in Ethiopia: case study of Benishangul-Gumuz Regional State (PhD). United Kingdom: University of Bradford. hdl:10454/5388.
^ "The world factbook". cia.gov. 2 March 2022.
^ a b Adugna, Gabe. "Research: Language Learning – Amharic: Home". library.bu.edu. Retrieved 8 December 2021.
^ "Amharic alphabet, pronunciation and language". www.omniglot.com. Retrieved 26 July 2017.
^ Mohammad Hassan, The Oromo of Ethiopia, pp.3
^ The Southern Marches of Imperial Ethiopia: Essays in History and Social Anthropology, Donham Donald Donham, Lecturer in Social Anthropology Wendy James, Dr, PhD, Former Senior Lecturer in Mathematics Christopher Clapham, Patrick Manning CUP Archive, Sep 4, 1986, p. 11, https://books.google.com/books?id=dvk8AAAAIAAJ&q=Lisane+amharic
^ Layers of Time: A History of Ethiopia, Paul B. Henze, November 18th 2008, p. 78, https://books.google.com/books?id=3VYBDgAAQBAJ&q=Lisane
^ "ETHIOPIA TO ADD 4 MORE OFFICIAL LANGUAGES TO FOSTER UNITY". Ventures Africa. Ventures. 4 March 2020. Retrieved 2 February 2021.
^ "Ethiopia is adding four more official languages to Amharic as political instability mounts". Nazret. Archived from the original on 17 August 2021. Retrieved 2 February 2021.
^ Meyer, Ronny (2006). "Amharic as lingua franca in Ethiopia". Lissan: Journal of African Languages and Linguistics. 20 (1/2): 117–131 – via Academia.edu.
^ Teferra, Anbessa (2013). "Amharic: Political and social effects on English loan words". In Rosenhouse, Judith; Kowner, Rotem (eds.). Globally Speaking: Motives for Adopting English Vocabulary in Other Languages. Multilingual Matters. p. 165.
^ Central Statistical Agency. 2010. "Population and Housing Census 2007 Report, National". Accessed 13 December 2016].
^ "Israel's Ethiopian Jews keep ancient language alive in prayer". Al-Monitor. 29 June 2017. Retrieved 26 July 2017.
^ "Language Access Act Fact Sheet" (PDF). 5 October 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on 19 September 2015. Retrieved 11 October 2016.
^ a b Levine, Donald N. (2014). Greater Ethiopia: The Evolution of a Multiethnic Society. University of Chicago Press. pp. 27–28. ISBN 978-0-226-22967-6. The analysis of linguistic distributions suggests that the proto-Ethiopians of the third millennium B.C. spoke languages derived from a single stock, that is known as Hamito-Semitic or Afro-Asiatic. This ancestral language probably originated in the eastern Sahara, before the desiccation of that region... the homeland of Afro-Asiatic may have been in southwest Ethiopia. Wherever the origins of Afro-Asiatic, it seems clear that peoples speaking proto-Cushitic and proto-Omotic separated as groups with distinct languages by the fifth or fourth millennium BC and began peopling the Ethiopian plateaus not long after. Proto-Semitic separated at about the same time or somewhat earlier and passed over into Asia Minor... it seems reasonable to follow I. M. Diakonoff in assuming that the Semitic-speakers moved from the Sahara across the Nile Delta over Sinai, so that the presence of Semitic-speaking populations in Ethiopia must be attributed to a return movement of Semitic-speakers into Africa from South Arabia... As a base line for reconstructing the history of Greater Ethiopia, then, we may consider it plausible that by the end of the third millenium B.C. its main inhabitants were dark-skinned Caucasoid or "Afro-Mediterranean" peoples practicing rudimentary forms of agriculture and animal husbandry and speaking three branches of Afro-Asiatic – Semitic, Cushitic and Omotic.
^ Appiah, Anthony; Henry Louis Gates (2010). Encyclopedia of Africa. Oxford University Press. p. 96. ISBN 978-0-19-533770-9.
^ Kebede, Messay (2003). "Eurocentrism and Ethiopian Historiography: Deconstructing Semitization". University of Dayton-Department of Philosophy. International Journal of Ethiopian Studies. Tsehai Publishers. 1: 1–19 – via JSTOR.
^ Alemu, Daniel E. (2007). "Re-imagining the Horn". African Renaissance. 4 (1): 56–64 – via Ingenta.
^ a b Meyer, Ronny (2011). "Amharic". In Weninger, Stefan (ed.). The Semitic Languages: An International Handbook. Walter De Gruyter. pp. 1178–1212. ISBN 9783110251586.
^ Edzard, Lutz (2019). "Amharic". In John Huehnergard; Naʽama Pat-El (eds.). The Semitic Languages. London: Routledge. pp. 202–226.
^ Hetzron, Robert (1972). Ethiopian Semitic: Studies in Classification. Manchester University Press. p. 36. ISBN 9780719011238.
^ Hetzron, Robert (1972). Ethiopian Semitic: Studies in Classification. Manchester University Press. pp. 36, 87–88. ISBN 9780719011238.
^ Appleyard, David. "Amharic: History and dialectology of Amharic". Encyclopedia Aethopica. Vol. 1. p. 235.
^ Butts, Aaron Michael (2015). Semitic languages in contact. Leiden, Boston: Brill. pp. 18–21. ISBN 9789004300156. OCLC 1083204409.
^ "Amhara | Definition, History, & Culture | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Retrieved 17 April 2022.
^ Hetzron, Robert (1972). Ethiopian Semitic: Studies in Classification. Manchester University Press. p. 88. ISBN 9780719011238.
^ Demeke, Girma (2014). The Origin of Amharic. The Red Sea Press. pp. 45–52. ISBN 978-1-56902-379-2. OCLC 824502290.
^ Prunier, Gérard; Ficquet, Éloi, eds. (2015). Understanding Contemporary Ethiopia: Monarchy, Revolution and the Legacy of Meles Zenawi. London: C. Hurst & Co. p. 19. ISBN 9781849042611.
^ Hetzron, Robert (1972). Ethiopian Semitic: Studies in Classification. Manchester University Press. p. 124. ISBN 9780719011238.
^ Demeke, Girma (2014). The Origin of Amharic. The Red Sea Press. pp. 15, 133–138. ISBN 978-1-56902-379-2. OCLC 824502290.
^ Butts, Aaron Michael (2015). Semitic languages in contact. Leiden, Boston: Brill. p. 22. ISBN 9789004300156. OCLC 1083204409.
^ Tamrat, Taddesse (1972). Church and state in Ethiopia, 1270-1527. Clarendon Press. pp. 34–38. ISBN 978-1-59907-039-1. OCLC 783536291.
^ Demeke, Girma (2014). The Origin of Amharic. The Red Sea Press. pp. 33, 131–137. ISBN 978-1-56902-379-2. OCLC 824502290.
^ Demeke, Girma (2014). The Origin of Amharic. The Red Sea Press. pp. 8–54. ISBN 978-1-56902-379-2. OCLC 824502290.
^ Hetzron, Robert (1972). Ethiopian Semitic: Studies in Classification. Manchester University Press. pp. 22, 67, 88. ISBN 9780719011238.
^ a b c d Hayward, Katrina; Hayward, Richard J. (1999). "Amharic". Handbook of the IPA. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 44–51.
^ a b Hudson, Grover (2009). "Amharic". In Comrie, Bernard (ed.). The World's Major Languages. Oxon and New York: Routledge. pp. 594–617. ISBN 978-0-203-30152-4.
^ 
Daniels, Peter T.; Bright, William, eds. (1996). "Ethiopic Writing". The World's Writing Systems. Oxford University Press, Inc. p. 573. ISBN 978-0-19-507993-7.
^ habesha (28 September 2010). "Simple Amharic Sentences". Bigaddis. Archived from the original on 3 April 2012. Retrieved 18 May 2013.
^ Tefera, Anbessa (1999). "Differences Between the Amharic Dialects of Gondär and Addis Abäba". In Parfitt, T.; Semi, E. Trevisan (eds.). The Beta Israel in Ethiopia and Israel, Studies on the Ethiopian Jews. London: Curzon Press. pp. 257–263. ISBN 0-7007-1092-2.
^ Aklilu, Amsalu; Marcos, Habte Mariam (1973). "The dialect of Wällo". Journal of Ethiopian Studies. 11 (2): 124–29. JSTOR 41988260.
^ Kevin O'Brien Chang; Wayne Chen (1998). Reggae Routes: The Story of Jamaican Music. Temple University Press. pp. 242–. ISBN 978-1-56639-629-5. Retrieved 2 May 2013.
^ Bernard Collins (The Abyssinians) Interview Archived 1 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine. Published 4 November 2011 by Jah Rebel. Retrieved 4 May 2013.
^ "SNWMF 2005 – Performers". Snwmf.com. Retrieved 4 March 2012.
^ "Amharic Keyboard for Windows Vista". YouTube. 1 February 2009. Archived from the original on 30 October 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2013.
^ "የዳውንሎድ ዝርዝር፡- Windows Vista LIP". Microsoft.com. 29 January 2010. Retrieved 10 August 2013.
^ "Google". Retrieved 4 March 2012.
Grammar[edit]
Ludolf, Hiob (1698). Grammatica Linguæ Amharicæ. Frankfort.
Abraham, Roy Clive (1968). The Principles of Amharic. Occasional Publication / Institute of African Studies, University of Ibadan. [rewritten version of 'A modern grammar of spoken Amharic', 1941]
Afevork, Ghevre Jesus (1905). Grammatica della lingua amarica: metodo pratico per l'insegnamento. R. Accademia dei Lincei.
Afevork Ghevre Jesus (1911). Il verbo amarico. Roma.
Amsalu Aklilu & Demissie Manahlot (1990). T'iru ye'Amarinnya Dirset 'Indet Yale New! (An Amharic grammar, in Amharic)
Anbessa Teferra and Grover Hudson (2007). Essentials of Amharic. Cologne: Rüdiger Köppe Verlag.
Appleyard, David (1994). Colloquial Amharic. Routledge ISBN 0-415-10003-8
Carl Hubert, Armbruster (1908). Initia amharica: an Introduction to Spoken Amharic. The University Press.
Baye Yimam (2007). Amharic Grammar. Second Edition. Addis Ababa University. Ethiopia.
Bender, M. Lionel. (1974) "Phoneme frequencies in Amharic".  Journal of Ethiopian Studies 12.1:19–24
Bender, M. Lionel and Hailu Fulass (1978). Amharic verb morphology.  (Committee on Ethiopian Studies, monograph 7.) East Lansing: African Studies Center, Michigan State University.
Bennet, M. E. (1978). Stratificational Approaches to Amharic Phonology. PhD thesis, Ann Arbor: Michigan State University.
Cohen, Marcel (1936). Traité de langue amharique. Paris: Institut d'Ethnographie.
Cohen, Marcel (1939). Nouvelles études d'éthiopien merdional. Paris: Champion.
Dawkins, C. H. (¹1960, ²1969). The Fundamentals of Amharic. Addis Ababa.
Kapeliuk, Olga (1988). Nominalization in Amharic. Stuttgart: F. Steiner Verlag Wiesbaden. ISBN 3-515-04512-0
Kapeliuk, Olga (1994). Syntax of the noun in Amharic. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz. ISBN 3-447-03406-8.
Łykowska, Laura (1998). Gramatyka jezyka amharskiego Wydawnictwo Akademickie Dialog. ISBN 83-86483-60-1
Leslau, Wolf (1995). Reference Grammar of Amharic. Harrassowitz, Wiesbaden.  ISBN 3-447-03372-X
Praetorius, Franz (1879). Die amharische Sprache. Halle: Verlag der Buchhandlung des Waisenhauses.
Dictionaries[edit]
Abbadie, Antoine d' (1881). Dictionnaire de la langue amariñña. Actes de la Société philologique, t. 10. Paris.
Amsalu Aklilu (1973). English-Amharic dictionary. Oxford University Press.  ISBN 0-19-572264-7
Baeteman, J.-É. (1929). Dictionnaire amarigna-français. Diré-Daoua
Gankin, É. B. (1969). Amxarsko-russkij slovar'. Pod redaktsiej Kassa Gäbrä Heywät. Moskva: Izdatel'stvo 'Sovetskaja Éntsiklopedija'.
Guidi, I. (1901). Vocabolario amarico-italiano. Roma.
Isenberg, Karl Wilhelm (1841). Dictionary of the Amharic language: Amharic and English: Englisch and Amharic. Church Missionary Society. Retrieved 25 August 2012.
Guidi, I. (1940). Supplemento al Vocabolario amarico-italiano. (compilato con il concorso di Francesco Gallina ed Enrico Cerulli) Roma.
Kane, Thomas L. (1990). Amharic–English Dictionary. (2 vols.) Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.  ISBN 3-447-02871-8
Leslau, Wolf (1976). Concise Amharic Dictionary. (Reissue edition: 1996) Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press.  ISBN 0-520-20501-4
Täsämma Habtä Mikael Gəṣṣəw (1953 Ethiopian calendar). Käsate Bərhan Täsämma. Yä-Amarəñña mäzgäbä qalat. Addis Ababa: Artistic.
External links[edit]
 Amharic language edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Amharic.
For a list of words relating to Amharic, see the Amharic category of words in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Amharic language.
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Amharic
Amharic Keyboard online (and offline too): type 1 and type 2
Fonts for Geʽez script:
Noto Sans Ethiopic (multiple weights and widths)
Noto Serif Ethiopic (multiple weights and widths)
Abyssinica SIL (Character set support)
Selected Annotated Bibliography on Amharic by Grover Hudson at the Michigan State University website.
US State Dept. FSI Amharic course
vteLanguages of EthiopiaOfficial language
Amharic
RegionallanguagesEthiosemitic
Amharic
Argobba
Geʽez
Gurage
Harari
Inor
Mesqan
Muher
Sebat Bet Gurage
Siltʼe
Soddo
Tigrinya
Zay
Cushitic
Afar
Alaba
Ale
Arbore
Awngi
Baiso
Bussa
Burji
Daasanach
Dirasha
Gedeo
Hadiyya
Kambaata
Konso
Libido
Oromo
Qimant
Saho
Sidamo
Somali
Tsamai
Xamtanga
Omotic
Aari
Anfillo
Bambassi
Basketo
Bench
Boro
Chara
Dime
Dizi
Dorze
Gamo-Gofa-Dawro
Ganza
Gayil
Hamer-Banna
Hozo
Kachama-Ganjule
Kafa
Karo
Koorete
Maale
Melo
Nayi
Oyda
Seze
Shekkacho
Sheko
Wolaytta
Yemsa
Zayse-Zergulla
Nilo-Saharan
Anuak
Berta
Daatsʼiin
Gumuz
Kacipo-Balesi
Komo
Kwama
Kwegu
Majang
Meʼen
Murle
Mursi
Nuer
Nyangatom
Opuuo
Shabo
Suri
Uduk
Foreign languages
English
Arabic
Sign languages
Ethiopian sign languages
vteSemitic languagesEast
Akkadian
Canaano-Akkadian
Eblaite
WestCen-tralNorth-westCana-aniteHebrewEras
Biblical (northern dialect)
Mishnaic
Medieval
Modern
Readingtraditions
Ashkenazi
Babylonian
Italian
Mizrahi (Syrian)
Palestinian
Samaritan
Sephardi
Tiberian
Yemenite
Others
Ammonite
Edomite
Moabite
Phoenician
Punic
Samalian
AramaicHistorical
Old Aramaic
Imperial Aramaic
Biblical Aramaic
Middle Aramaic
Western
Nabataean
Palestinian
Christian Palestinian
Jewish Palestinian
Samaritan
Palmyrene
Western Neo-Aramaic
EasternNeo-AramaicCentralNeo-Aramaic
Mlaḥsô
Turoyo
NortheasternNeo-AramaicChristian
Suret
Assyrian
Chaldean
Barwar
Bohtan Neo-Aramaic
Hértevin
Koy Sanjaq Surat
Qaraqosh
Senaya
Urmia Christian
Judeo-Aramaic
Barzani
Betanure
Inter-Zab
Koy Sanjaqc
Sanandaj
Trans-Zab
Urmia Jewish
Zakho
Mandaic
Neo-Mandaic
Others
Ashurian and Hatran
Jewish Babylonian Aramaic
Syriac
Others
Amorite
Ugaritic
Ancient North Arabian
Dadanitic
Dumaitic
Hasaitic
Hismaic
Safaitic
Taymanitic
Thamudic
Himyaritic
Sutean
ArabicHistorical
Proto-Arabic
Nabataean Arabic
Old Arabic
Pre-classical Arabic
Literary
Classical
Modern Standard
Dialect groups
Egyptian Arabic
Levantine
Maghrebi
Maltese
Siculo-Arabic
Mesopotamian
Peninsular
SouthEthiopicNorth
Geʽez
Dahalik
Tigre
Tigrinya
SouthTrans-versalAmharic–Argobba
Amharic
Argobba
Harari–East Gurage
Harari
East Gurage
Siltʼe
Inneqor
Ulbare
Wolane
Zay
Outern-group
Gafat
Soddo
tt-group
Mesmes
Muher
West Gurage
Inor
Endegen
Mesqan
Sebat Bet
Chaha
Ezha
Gumer
Gura
Gyeto
Modern Arabian
Baṭḥari
Ḥarsusi
Hobyot
Mehri
Shehri
Soqotri
Old Arabian
Faifi
Hadramautic
Minaean
Qatabanian
Awsanian
Razihi
Sabaic
Italics indicate extinct or historical languages.
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Afroasiatic languages
vteBerber languagesReconstructed
Proto-Berber
Eastern
Awjila
Fezzan
Foqaha
Sokna
Tmessa
Ghadamès
Jaghbub
Kufra
Nafusi
Jadu
Nalut
Wazzin
Yefren
Siwa
NorthernZenati
Eastern Middle Atlas (transitional to Atlas)
Seghrouchen
Warayn
Northern Saharan
Gurara
Mozabite
South Oranie and Figuig
Tidikelt
Tuwat
Wad Righ
Wargla
Riffian
Central Riffian
Eastern Moroccan
Iznasen
Snouss
Western Riffian
Shawiya
Tunisian-Zuwara (transitional to Eastern)
Jerba
Matmata
Sened
Tataouine
Zuwara
Western Algerian
Gouraya
Shelif
Shenwa
Non-Zenati
Atlas languages
Central Atlas
Gharb
Ghomara
Judeo-Berber
Sanhaja de Srayr
Shilha
Kabyle
Central-Eastern
Central-Western
Eastern
Western
Standardised
Moroccan Amazigh
Algerian Berber
Tuareg
Tamahaq
Tamashek
Tawellemmet
Tayart
Western
Tetserret
Zenaga
Others
Guanche?
Old Libyan
East Numidian
Fezzan-Tripolitanian
Mauretanian
West Numidian
Orthography
Libyco-Berber alphabet
Tifinagh
Berber Latin alphabet
Berber Arabic alphabet
Judeo-Berber alphabet
InstitutionsGovernmental
AAAL (Algeria)
HCA (Algeria)
IRCAM (Morocco)
DNAFLA (Mali)
CRB (France)
NGOs
Berber Academy
World Amazigh Congress
Amazigh Cultural Association in America
Italics indicate extinct languages
vteBiu–Mandara languagesTera
Boga
Hwana
Ga'anda
Gabin
Ngwaba
Jara
Pidlimdi
Tera
Bura–HigiBura–Marghi
Bura-Pabir
Cibak
Huba
Marghi Central
Marghi South
Nggwahyi
Putai
Higi
Bana
Hya
Kamwə
Kirya-Konzəl
Others
Kofa
Wandala(Mandara)East
Glavda
Wandala
West
Dghweɗe
Guduf-Gava
Cineni
Gəvoko
Hdi
Lamang
Mabas
Vemgo
Woga
Others
Parəkwa
Sukur
MafaNortheast
Gaduwa
Mbuko
Vame
South (A)
Maɗa
Məlokwo
Muyang
Wuzlam
South (B)
Ɗugwor
Gemzek
Merey
Mikere
Zəlgwa-Minew
South (C)
Baldemu
Mofu-Gudur
North Giziga
North Mofu
South Giziga
South (D)
Cuvok
Mafa
Mefele
Shügule
Others
Matal
DabaNorth
Buwal
Gavar
South
Daba
Mazagway
Mbədam
Mina
Bata(Gbwata)
Bacama
Bata
Fali of Mubi
Gude
Gudu
Holma
Jimi
Nzanyi
Sharwa
Tsuvan
Zizilivakan
Mandage(Kotoko)North
Lagwan
Msər
South
Afaɗə
Malgbe
Maslam
Mpadə
Others
Jilbe
East–CentralMunjuk
Beege
Mbara
Mpus
Musgu
Muskum
Vulum
Mida'a
Jina
Majəra
Others
Gidar
Others
Buduma
Italics indicate extinct languages. See also: Chadic languages
vteCushitic languagesNorth Cushitic
Beja
Agaw
Awngi
Bilen
Qimant
Kayla
Qwara
Xamtanga
Highland East
Alaba
Burji
Gedeo
Hadiyya
Kambaata
Libido
Sidamo
Lowland EastSaho–Afar
Afar
Saho
Oromoid
Borana
Eastern Oromo
Orma
Oromo
Waata
Konsoid
Bussa
Dirasha
Gato
Konso
Mashile
Turo
(West) Omo–Tana
Arbore
Daasanach
El Molo
Rendille–Boni
Baiso
Boni
Rendille
Somali
Somali
Other
Boon
Dahalo
Girirra
Yaaku
Dullay
Gawwada
Dihina
Dobase
Gaba
Gergere
Gollango
Gorrose
Harso
Tsamai
South
Aasáx
Alagwa
Burunge
Gorowa
Iraqw
Kwʼadza
Italics indicate extinct languages
vteEast Chadic languagesEast Chadic (A)Sibine
Mawer
Mire
Motun
Ndam
Somrai
Tumak
Miltu
Boor
Gadang
Miltu
Sarua
Nancere
Kimré
Lele
Nancere
Gabri
Gabri
Kabalai
Tobanga
Kwang
Kera
Kwang
Others
Buso
East Chadic (B)Dangla (B.1.1)
Bidiyo
Birgit
Dangaléat
Jonkor Bourmataguil
Mabire
Migaama
Mogum
Toram
Mubi (B.1.2)
Kajakse
Masmaje
Mubi
Zirenkel
Sokoro (B.3)
Mawa
Saba
Sokoro
Tamki
Ubi
Barain (B.4)
Barein
Jelkung
Others
Mokilko (B.2)
Kujargé (?)
Italics indicate extinct languages. See also: Chadic languages
vteMasa languagesNorth
Azumeina
Massa
Musey
Zumaya
South
Mesmé
Ngeté-Herdé
Pévé
Italics indicate extinct languages. See also: Chadic languages
vteOmotic languagesSouth Omotic
Aari
Dime
Gayil
Hamer-Banna
Karo
Mao
Bambassi
Ganza
Hozo
Seze
Dizoid
Dizi
Nayi
Sheko
North Omotic (Ta-Ne)Gonga
Anfillo
Boro
Kafa
Shekkacho
OmetoCentral
Dorze
Gamo-Gofa-Dawro
Melo
Oyda
Wolaytta
East
Kachama-Ganjule
Koorete
Zayse-Zergulla
Others
Basketo
Maale
Others
Bench
Chara
Yemsa
Italics indicate extinct languages
vteSemitic languagesEast
Akkadian
Canaano-Akkadian
Eblaite
WestCen-tralNorth-westCana-aniteHebrewEras
Biblical (northern dialect)
Mishnaic
Medieval
Modern
Readingtraditions
Ashkenazi
Babylonian
Italian
Mizrahi (Syrian)
Palestinian
Samaritan
Sephardi
Tiberian
Yemenite
Others
Ammonite
Edomite
Moabite
Phoenician
Punic
Samalian
AramaicHistorical
Old Aramaic
Imperial Aramaic
Biblical Aramaic
Middle Aramaic
Western
Nabataean
Palestinian
Christian Palestinian
Jewish Palestinian
Samaritan
Palmyrene
Western Neo-Aramaic
EasternNeo-AramaicCentralNeo-Aramaic
Mlaḥsô
Turoyo
NortheasternNeo-AramaicChristian
Suret
Assyrian
Chaldean
Barwar
Bohtan Neo-Aramaic
Hértevin
Koy Sanjaq Surat
Qaraqosh
Senaya
Urmia Christian
Judeo-Aramaic
Barzani
Betanure
Inter-Zab
Koy Sanjaqc
Sanandaj
Trans-Zab
Urmia Jewish
Zakho
Mandaic
Neo-Mandaic
Others
Ashurian and Hatran
Jewish Babylonian Aramaic
Syriac
Others
Amorite
Ugaritic
Ancient North Arabian
Dadanitic
Dumaitic
Hasaitic
Hismaic
Safaitic
Taymanitic
Thamudic
Himyaritic
Sutean
ArabicHistorical
Proto-Arabic
Nabataean Arabic
Old Arabic
Pre-classical Arabic
Literary
Classical
Modern Standard
Dialect groups
Egyptian Arabic
Levantine
Maghrebi
Maltese
Siculo-Arabic
Mesopotamian
Peninsular
SouthEthiopicNorth
Geʽez
Dahalik
Tigre
Tigrinya
SouthTrans-versalAmharic–Argobba
Amharic
Argobba
Harari–East Gurage
Harari
East Gurage
Siltʼe
Inneqor
Ulbare
Wolane
Zay
Outern-group
Gafat
Soddo
tt-group
Mesmes
Muher
West Gurage
Inor
Endegen
Mesqan
Sebat Bet
Chaha
Ezha
Gumer
Gura
Gyeto
Modern Arabian
Baṭḥari
Ḥarsusi
Hobyot
Mehri
Shehri
Soqotri
Old Arabian
Faifi
Hadramautic
Minaean
Qatabanian
Awsanian
Razihi
Sabaic
Italics indicate extinct or historical languages.
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
vteWest Chadic languagesHausa–Gwandara (A.1)
Gwandara
Hausa
Bole–Tangale (A.2)Bole
Ɓeele
Bole
Bure
Daza
Deno
Galambu
Gera
Geruma
Giiwo
Karekare
Kubi
Ngamo
Maaka
Pali
Tangale
Dera
Kholok
Kushi
Kutto
Kwaami
Nyam
Pero
Piya-Kwonci
Kulung
Tangale
Angas (A.3)
Cakfem-Mushere
Goemai
Chakato (Jorto)
Koenoem
Kofyar
Jibyal
Miship
Nteng
Montol
Mwaghavul
Ngas
Belneng
Pyapun
Tal
Yiwom
Miler
Ron (A.4)
Bokkos
Daffo-Butura
Duhwa
Fyer
Kulere
Mundat
Sha
Shagawu
Tambas
Bade (B.1)
Auyokawa
Bade
Duwai
Ngizim
Shira
Teshenawa
Warji (B.2)
Ajawa
Ciwogai
Diri
Kariya
Mburku
Miya
Pa'a
Siri
Warji
Zumbun
Barawa (B.3)Zaar
Dass
Geji
Polci
Saya
Zari
Zeem
Guruntum
Guruntum-Mbaaru
Ju
Tala
Zangwal
Boghom
Boghom
Jimi
Jum
Kir-Balar
Mangas
Others
Poki
Italics indicate extinct languages. See also: Chadic languages
Authority control National
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Amharic&oldid=1173123292"
Categories: Amharic languageFusional languagesLanguages of EthiopiaSouth Semitic languagesTransverse Ethiopian Semitic languagesHidden categories: Pages that use PhonosLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 25Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from July 2020Articles needing additional references from March 2011All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Amharic-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeInstances of Lang-am using second unnamed parameterArticles containing Ge'ez-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2017Commons category link is on WikidataArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 31 August 2023, at 11:59 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width