Folk Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Folk300 FollowersRecent papers in FolkTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleSensory Shifts and 'Synaesthetics' In Sukuma HealingThe Sukuma Sensorium Before discussing the sensory shifts that are pivotal in Sukuma healing, an introduction to the human sensorium may be in order. As a Western ethnographer, I am inevitably influenced by Euro-American conceptions in... moreThe Sukuma Sensorium Before discussing the sensory shifts that are pivotal in Sukuma healing, an introduction to the human sensorium may be in order. As a Western ethnographer, I am inevitably influenced by Euro-American conceptions in which ...Save to LibraryDownloadby koen stroeken•  19  Psychology, Music, Anthropology, PhenomenologyReshit Hokhmah: An Unknown Anti-Hasidic Manuscript, A Critical Edition and with an Introduction by Shmuel Werses & Jonatan Meir, Jerusalem: The Mandel Institute of Jewish Studies, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem: Jerusalem 2011, 20 + 95 pp. (Hebrew)This volume publishes for the first time an untitled anti-Hasidic manuscript, which the editors have called Reshit Hokhmah (The Origin/Beginning of Wisdom), from the Joseph Perl Archive in Tarnopol. The manuscript was copied in 1819,... moreThis volume publishes for the first time an untitled anti-Hasidic manuscript, which the editors have called Reshit Hokhmah (The Origin/Beginning of Wisdom), from the Joseph Perl Archive in Tarnopol. The manuscript was copied in 1819, the year that Perl’s Megale Temirin was published. It is housed today in the National Library of Israel in Jerusalem. The identity of the author is unknown, but he probably came from Galicia and was associated with Mitnagdim and Maskilim. The book expresses harsh and detailed criticism of the hagiographic work, Shivhei ha-Besht (In Praise of the Baal Shem Tov, Kapost 1815), which is the first extensive engagement with this book. Moreover, the work is erudite and anticipates the views of Isaac Baer Levinson in his work Te‘udah be-Yisrael (A Warning to Israel, Vilna and Grodno 1828). The manuscript was read by many Maskilim in Galicia and it seems to have influenced both Joseph Perl and Isaac Baer Levinson. This work is therefore of great importance as an example of anti-Hasidic literature, which influenced nineteenth-century Haskalah literature. A transcription of the manuscript is presented in this volume, accompanied by explanatory notes, references to literature that influenced the author, references to anti-Hasidic literature, and an introduction that describes the character of the work and its reception. Table of Contents Early Manuscripts in Joseph Perl Archive / Jonatan MeirIntroduction / Shmuel Werses Reshit Hokhmah (1819): Critical EditionIntroduction • The History of Heresy • In Praise of Wisdom and The Sages • On the Ways of the Fools • Hasidic Tales and their Secrets • On the Besht’s Path • The Besht’s Family • The Secret of Healing a Barren Woman • A Hasidic Sermon on Wine and Sons • Another Question and a Sermon on the Secrets • A Question and Sermon on Hasidic Tales • A Story about the Wonders of the great Tzaddik • On the Besht and a Priest who had an Accidental Emission • Another Story on the Besht and a Priest • The Besht and Wine • The Besht and Adultery • The Besht and the Messiah • Exaggerated Praise Concerning the Besht and the Origins of Praise • An Elegy on the Heretics, the Besht, and the Hasidim • A Reproach against the Besht’s Sayings Concerning the Messiah • Stories of False Tzaddikim • Two Types of Hasidic Rabbis • On the Tzaddikim and the Damage They Cause • Praising Wisdom and Work  BibliographyIndexesSave to LibraryDownloadby Jonatan Meir and +1Shmuel Werses (1915-2010)•  356  Religion, Gnosticism, New Religious Movements, Mythology And FolkloreContested spaces Globalization, the arts and the state in MalaysiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Gerhard Hoffstaedter•  28  Sociology, Music, Anthropology, PhilosophyYAŞAM DENEYİMİNDEN SANATSAL KURGUYA: NEŞET ERTAŞ TÜRKÜLERİ VE HİKÂYELERİ Cihan ANZERLİ – Mustafa Kemal FEDAKÂRSave to LibraryDownloadby Cihan  Anzerli•  8  Folklore, Folk Music, Folklor, FolkJoseph Perl, Sefer Megale Temirin (Revealer of Secrets), critically edited and introduced by Jonatan Meir, with an afterword by Dan Miron, Jerusalem: Mossad Bialik, 2013, 1-2, 620 pp. (Hebrew)"Megaleh Temirin (Revealer of Secrets), ed. Jonatan Meir, Three volumes, Mosad Bialik, Jerusalem Megaleh Temirin (Revealer of Secrets), first published in Vienna in 1819, is one of the sharpest and wittiest pieces of Jewish literature... more"Megaleh Temirin (Revealer of Secrets), ed. Jonatan Meir, Three volumes, Mosad Bialik, Jerusalem Megaleh Temirin (Revealer of Secrets), first published in Vienna in 1819, is one of the sharpest and wittiest pieces of Jewish literature written in the first half of the nineteenth century, and is perhaps the most important piece of Hebrew prose composed before the stories of Mendele Mocher Seforim. A sly and complex story deriding Hasidism and Hasidim, it is told through the correspondence between the beadles of Hasidic courts and contemporary rabbis, and it presents a dark picture of  avaricious frauds and swindlers whose main concern was control over territory and the souls of believers, a goal achieved by beguiling the authorities and attacking all opponents. Perl lends his book a ‘Hasidic’ feel both in its physical design and in its language, presenting a Maskilic version of In Praise of the Ba’al Shem Tov that lays Hasidism bare so that no reader will ever be able to look at that, or any other Hasidic book, in the same way again. In addition to the book’s satiric sting, which would have been enough to bring its readers a dual pleasure, Perl’s hints at contemporary people and places, hidden within anagrams and numerological tricks. With the unraveling of these clues, which also include the use of actual Hasidic sources, the book is a valuable, contemporary view of historical reality. A meticulous reading of the book may therefore open a window on the hidden worlds of Hasidism and the Haskalah at the start of the nineteenth century.  The first volume (Imagined Hasidism) serves as an introduction to the complex satirical writings of Josef Perl of Tarnopol (1773-1839). At the center of the book stands an analysis of the satires, Megaleh Temirin (1819) and Bochen Tzadik (1838), including a systematic treatment of the ‘characters’ in the central works and a discussion of the dozens of manuscripts to be found in the Perl Archive in Jerusalem. Perl’s writings are analyzed here in the fuller context of Hebrew and Yiddish literature in general and Maskilic and Hasidic literature in particular, as well as other polemical writings and governmental records critical of Hasidism. The study thus presents a complex and nuanced picture of the relationship between literature and history, between the anti-Hasidic reports and the more complicated historical reality, and lays the groundwork for further research into the genre of nineteenth-century Maskilic satire. The second and third volumes (Megaleh Temirin) present for the first time an annotated edition of Megaleh Temirin. It is based on the first edition and the scattered manuscripts and it includes a comparison to its Yiddish translation. The book is accompanied by appendices on its origins and contents, including fundamental treatments of several passages: an explication of the encoded names, the Hasidic sources used by the author, and the variants found in the manuscripts and in the only edition of the book in Yiddish. The editor of the book, Professor Jonatan Meir, teaches in the Goldstein-Goren Department of Jewish Thought at Ben-Gurion University. He has published several articles on the Haskalah of Eastern Europe, Hasidism, and a number of varied topics in twentieth-century Kabbalah.  Contents Volume 1  - Critical Edition Concerning this editionKey personalitiesSefer Megale Temirin – Critical Edition  Volume 2 - Appendixes:1. Glossary, Abbreviations, Acronyms2. Explanation of the Speaking Names3. Perl’s Hasidic Sources4. Manuscripts of Sefer Megale Temirin5. Yiddish Introduction to Sefer Megale TemirinBibliographic Abbreviations  -------------------------------Reviews: (1)Dan Meron, 2013, ‘Megaleh Temirin’, Kivunim Hadashim 29, 55 pages (Hebrew)(2)David Assaf, 2014, ‘Hasidim will not Read it but Tear it’, Haaretz, Tarbut ve-Sifrut, p .6 (Hebrew) http://onegshabbat.blogspot.co.il/2014/04/blog-post_18.html (3)Eliezer Brodt, 2014, 'New book Announcement- Megale Temirin', The Seforim Blog http://seforim.blogspot.co.il/2014/01/new-book-announcement-megale-temirin.html (4)Matan Hermoni, 2014,  הסבתא המופקרת של הספרות העבריתHaaretz, Sfarim (Hebrew) http://www.haaretz.co.il/.premium-1.2382365 (5)Shinichi Yamamoto, 2015, 山本　伸一, "ヨナタン・メイール編著『想像のハシディズム』", ユダヤ・イスラエル研究　第28号   http://www.waseda.jp/assoc-jsjs/jistudies.html (6)David Biale and David Assaf,, 2015, 'Revealer Revealed', Jewish Review of Books, pp. 17-21   http://jewishreviewofbooks.com/articles/1454/revealer-revealed/ (7)Hillel Halkin, 2015, "Sex, Magic, Bigotry, Corruption- and the First Hebrew Novel', Mosaic Magazine,  http://mosaicmagazine.com/observation/2015/05/sex-magic-bigotry-corruption-and-the-first-hebrew-novel/ (8) Tomer Persico, 2015, "Interview", Lula'at haEl Blog, http://tomerpersico.com/2015/08/10/meir_perl/Save to LibraryDownloadby Jonatan Meir•  470  Critical Theory, Religion, New Religious Movements, Mythology And FolkloreTambores de Mina - in: A música na escola Save to LibraryDownloadby Magda D . Pucci•  15  Music, Phenomenology, Shamanism, ArtsThe Avant-Garde and the Popular in Modern China: Tian Han and the Intersection of Performance and PoliticsUniversity of Michigan Press, 2014Save to LibraryDownloadby Liang Luo 羅靚•  16  Gender Studies, Film Studies, Performance Studies, Popular CultureDesjarlais, Robert and Jason Throop (2011) "Phenomenological Approaches in Anthropology" Annual Review of Anthropology 40: 87-102Save to LibraryDownloadby Jason Throop•  62  Neuroscience, Emotion, Music, AnthropologyEl origen de LA SARDANAEl origen de LA SARDANA es un extracto del libro Karuo el secreto ibero, Enrique Cabrejas o Enric Cabrejas nos relata de modo llano su experiencia personal con lo extraordinario de un descubrimiento. El 21 de Abril de 2012 consiguió lo... moreEl origen de LA SARDANA es un extracto del libro Karuo el secreto ibero, Enrique Cabrejas o Enric Cabrejas nos relata de modo llano su experiencia personal con lo extraordinario de un descubrimiento. El 21 de Abril de 2012 consiguió lo que parecía imposible: Descifrar la escritura ibérica. El hallazgo más relevante de la cultura universal en nuestro país de los últimos tiempos, sin lugar a dudas. Un hito en la historia de la escritura sin precedentes. Desde este mismo instante la obra Karuo de Enrique Cabrejas lo convierte en un referente destacado a nivel mundial en historia y lingüística. Los innumerables datos, explicaciones, pruebas y significados que nos reporta nunca conocidos antes, son una referencia obligada para todos aquellos que quieran comprender la historia, la lengua antigua e incluso también la moderna de nuestro país o para quienes en el futuro deseen estudiarla e investigarla en profundidad, más si cabe desde el mundo académico.Save to LibraryDownloadby enrique  cabrejas•  48  Music, Catalan Studies, Catalan Language, Dance StudiesMemorat ve Ön-MemoratSave to LibraryDownloadby Ahmet Barış Ekiz•  12  Religion, Folklore, Narrative, Popular CultureArtists as Shamans: Historical Review and Recent Theoretical ModelBenyshek, D. (2013). A historical and critical overview of the artist as shaman and recent research. In A. Czyżewski & E.E. Djaltchinova-Malets (Eds.), Shamanhood and its arts. Budapest, Hungary: Bibliotheca Shamanistica, Akademia... moreBenyshek, D.  (2013).  A historical and critical overview of the artist as shaman and recent research. In A. Czyżewski  &  E.E. Djaltchinova-Malets (Eds.), Shamanhood and its arts. Budapest, Hungary: Bibliotheca Shamanistica, Akademia Kiado, and The Polish Institute of the World Art Studies, Warsaw. Abstract: A historical overview follows the association of artists with shamans through myth, archaeology, anthropology, philosophy, iconography, art history, psychology, and studies of creativity, primarily through the lens of the West. Forms of proto-art, such as the Woman of Willendorf, might represent entheogenmorphic female shamans.  A theoretical model of contemporary artists as shamans is presented.  Several traditional shamanic artists served as socially recognized shamans, spiritual practitioners who voluntarily controlled their attention to obtain information presented as forms of art. Shamanlike artists fulfilled many properties of shamanism, possibly earning implicit social designation when audiences receive psychological, social, spiritual, or physiological benefits from art."Save to LibraryDownloadby Denita M Benyshek, PhD MFA MA LMHC•  57  Screenwriting, Languages, Religion, HistorySciascia, Pasqualino e le feste popolari siciliane. Uno sguardo antropologico«Il saggio di Giovanni Gugg analizza la stroncatura da parte di Fortunato Pasqualino su "L'Osservatore Romano" del 2 aprile 1965 del testo di Sciascia nel libro fotografico "Feste religiose in Sicilia" di Ferdinando Scianna. Pasqualino,... more«Il saggio di Giovanni Gugg analizza la stroncatura da parte di Fortunato Pasqualino su "L'Osservatore Romano" del 2 aprile 1965 del testo di Sciascia nel libro fotografico "Feste religiose in Sicilia" di Ferdinando Scianna. Pasqualino, scrittore e filosofo, siciliano e cattolico, non poteva accettare il giudizio di Sciascia che nessun popolo avrebbe svuotato così profondamente i valori della propria religione come quello siciliano. Rifiutando nettamente il ragionamento di Sciascia, Pasqualino gli imputava pressapochismo teologico e scorrettezza metodologica ne "la riduzione dei siciliani a un tipo umano unico"». (Dalla recensione di Carlo Fiaschi in "Todomodo. Rivista internazionale di studi scisciani", anno III, 2013, Leo S. Olschki Editore, p. 273).Save to LibraryDownloadby Giovanni Gugg•  13  Religiosity, Letteratura italiana moderna e contemporanea, Leonardo Sciascia, Tradizioni PopolariROLE OF SONOWAL KACHARI HAIDANG GEET AS FOLK MEDIASonowal kachari is a tribe inhabiting in Indian state Assam with rich Folk cultural heritage. Bahuwa nas, Hogra nas, Haidang Geet, Hunchari Geet, Kulabudi nas, log bihu, Gayan Bayan, Phulkonwar-MoniKonwar geet, Ainam, Lakhimi naam etc.... moreSonowal kachari is a tribe inhabiting in Indian state Assam with rich Folk cultural heritage. Bahuwa nas, Hogra nas, Haidang Geet, Hunchari Geet, Kulabudi nas, log bihu, Gayan Bayan, Phulkonwar-MoniKonwar geet, Ainam, Lakhimi naam etc. are some of the unique Folk performing art traditions of this tribe. With the tribal behavior and immense attachment with their land, river, sky and above all the universe, they deliver some performances during their working or in the leisure time which are associated to their life, activities, thinking and the universe. Struggle, pleasure, sorrow, tiredness, hunger, and other experiences of their life are reflected in these performances. The Haidang Geet is the unique type of ritualistic folk song which not only give recreational or ritualistic communication but also describe about the creation of the universe, their deities with their social and ritual life. The present paper has made an attempt to discuss on Sonowal kachari Haidang Geet and its role as Folk media.Save to LibraryDownloadby IERJ Journal•  5  Communication, Performance, Media, FolkShamanism in Europe? Three ritual healers: The Basque salutariyua, the French marcou and the Italian maramao.Preface Throughout all of Europe we find examples of folk-belief assigning special qualities to the seventh-born son or daughter of a family. At times these attributes were positive, at times negative. However, they always had a magical... morePrefaceThroughout all of Europe we find examples of folk-belief assigning special qualities to the seventh-born son or daughter of a family. At times these attributes were positive, at times negative. However, they always had a magical aura about them (Bloch [1924] 1983). For the most part, these beliefs have been written off as superstitious residue from times past and as a result little attention has been paid to documenting the concrete social practices associated with them. An exception to this tendency is the work of Marc Bloch, who in 1924, called attention to the supernatural powers attributed to the seventh son and at times, to the seventh daughter, born after an uninterrupted series of the same sex, remarking that seventh-born children were credited with a “particular supernatural power” (Bloch [1924] 1983: 293, 296). Writing in 1924, Bloch observed that “La croyance sous cette forme a été et est sans doute encore très largement répandue dans l’Europe occidentale et centrale: on l’a signalée en Allemagne, en Biscaye, en Catalogne, dans presque toute la France, dans les Pays-Bas, en Angleterre, en Escosse, en Irlande […]”  (Bloch [1924] 1983: 294-295).  Specifically, Bloch noted that from at least the 16th century onwards, children born into a seventh position in their family supposedly had the power to heal by touch. Such extraordinary people, often deemed sorcerers, even devils, were also referred to by a variety of expressions such as mahr (German) or murawa (Polish) and consequently they had the ambivalent privilege of tapping into powers that were inaccessible to normal humans. Specifically, they were viewed as having healing and divinatory powers, which could entail shape-shifting (Vaz da Silva 2003). That is, those individuals were endowed with the ability to take the form of an animal. From the point of view of modern Western thought this belief causes the dividing line between humans and animals to become blurred. Nonetheless, that blurring or fusion of two natures would be in accordance with the cosmology of native peoples in other parts of the world, especially contemporary hunter-gatherers, where such animistic beliefs also prevail (Bird-David 1999; Brightman 2002; Ingold 2000; Willerslev 2007).  It is quite clear that the qualities assigned to the seventh-son or daughter harken back to an earlier animistic mindset, notions of nonhuman personhood and social practices that in turn connect back to shamanic modes of healing. At the same time, as noted in the earlier chapters of this study, the fused nature of the Bear Son, the half-human, half-bear being known as Hamalau “Fourteen” in Basque, reflects a similar blurring of the Western human-animal divide and related cultural conceptualizations.  And as Bertolotti has demonstrated in his detailed and extraordinarily well researched study Carnevale di Massa 1950 (1992), European versions of the Bear Son folktales, e.g., Giovanni l’Orso, may well reproduce much earlier beliefs, more in consonance with the cosmovision of hunter-gatherers who inhabited these zones in times past. More concretely, the fact that the figure of Hamalau is grounded in the belief that humans descended from bears allows us to consider the significance and symbolism of this character’s own genesis: he is born of a human female, but his father is a bear. In this sense, he is a double-natured intermediary occupying the ontological ground between humans and bears.Save to LibraryDownloadby Roslyn  Frank•  235  Creative Writing, Screenwriting, Critical Theory, Discourse AnalysisArtists as Shamans: An Archival Exploration Comparing Contemporary Artists and ShamansShamans and artists have been perceived as similar across a variety of dimensions. Nonetheless, these similarities have not been systematically explored and are poorly understood. This study was designed to investigate these... moreShamans and artists have been perceived as similar across a variety of dimensions. Nonetheless, these similarities have not been systematically explored and are poorly understood. This study was designed to investigate these similarities. Stanley Krippner (personal communication, January 12, 2010) provided the initial definition of a shaman that, after minor modifications to more fully represent knowledge about shamans, became: A shaman is a socially designated spiritual practitioner who obtains information in ways not available to the shaman’s community through the voluntary regulation of the shaman’s own attention, which is used for the benefit of the shaman’s community and its members.  Defining constructs were operationalized and validated cross-culturally to support multidirectional comparisons between artists and shamans using archival data from psychology, archaeology, anthropology, philosophy, art history, and creativity studies.  Previous publications about 24 well-known artists provided archival data for comparisons with shamans. The dimensions explored included familial influence, talent, neurological functions, calling to vocation, social support, personality, training, initiation, inspiration, positive disintegration, transliminality, imaginal realms, altered states, purported psi experiences, mental health issues, soul retrieval, spiritual emergence, transpersonal orientation, intent to benefit, and creativity. Tables, charts, and diagrams organized archival information that, supported by descriptive comparisons, explored the nature and extent of similarities between artists and shamans. The integration of visual art, poetry, and stories provided an emic artist’s perspective and alternate ways of knowing for the reader. The study found that four artists from traditional cultures fulfilled all defining constructs of shaman, comprising a set of prototypical shamanic artists. In contrast, twenty artists fulfilled some, but not all, constructs defining shaman. These shamanlike artists were noncentral members in a fuzzy set where the shamanlike artists had family resemblances to traditional shamans and shamanic artists. The study identified and articulated gaps in knowledge as well as establishing a broad, well-grounded theoretical model that can serve as a foundation for future research on relationships between contemporary artists and shamans, and, potentially, contribute towards transformation of art experiences in artists, art audiences, and art institutions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Denita M Benyshek, PhD MFA MA LMHC•  48  Religion, Parapsychology, Music, AnthropologyDevelili Seyrani'nin Yerin Katmanları Hakkında Bir Destanı-An Epic of Develili Seyrani about Layers of UndergroundSave to LibraryDownloadby Betül Aydoğdu Görkem•  15  Mythology And Folklore, Folklore (Literature), Folklor, FolkТапан - дијахрониски преглед на митско-симболичкото и обредното значење на тапанот во Македонија In this article we reach the mytho-symbolic and ritual character of the drum considering the Macedonian (and broadely the Balkan) Traditional culture. We summarize its role in the shamanic activities, afterwards assuming its role as the... moreIn this article we reach the mytho-symbolic and ritual character of the drum considering the Macedonian (and broadely the Balkan) Traditional culture. We summarize its role in the shamanic activities, afterwards assuming its role as the mystical «mean of transportation", which in the scope of the Macedonian dance «Teškoto» enable the dance leader to separate himself from the earth and its traveling to the «other world». There is an atempt the component of the mystical travel to be found in the dancing on one leg (typical for the «Teškoto» dance) and especially in relation with the appropriate pose of the stork / crane as a paradigmatic zoomorphyc traveler between the worlds. The comparative research shows that the drummer often carries within itself the priest functions. Regarding the way of the performing (kicking/hiting) he is also considered as blacksmith and magician. In the Macedonian traditional culture the both functions were accomplished by the foreigners (most frequently the gypsies - blacksmiths).  All these components emphasize the sacralised animal (horse) as the mediator which was the main factor for achieving the already mentioned functions. At the end we consider the relation between the hiting in the drum, stroke of the thunder, the drummer and the God of Tunder.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikos Chausidis•  41  Religion, Hinduism, Parapsychology, MusicTerracotta-ornamentation on the Religious-Architectures of Bengal: Gradual Deconstruction of Cultural-units through the Expanse of LokāyataLokāyata, as a word, primarily denotes the philosophy of the masses – spread or found among the common-folk. In that sense, it could largely be traced in the history of human culture and art, in various forms of architecture, sculpture,... moreLokāyata, as a word, primarily denotes the philosophy of the masses – spread or found among the common-folk. In that sense, it could largely be traced in the history of human culture and art, in various forms of architecture, sculpture, painting, music, dance, drama etc. But, whether the terracotta-ornamentation on religious-architectures of Bengal could also be included in the lokāyata-genre has always been a matter of great debate. Some are of opinion that even after having a kind of mass-expression in nature and style, the temples and mosques of Bengal lack the other symptoms of folk-tribal character.  Most of them were built for and by the riches and hence couldn’t connect with the folk-tribal traditions of rural-Bengal. On the other hand, others have identified the terracotta-plaques from Paharpur, Mainamati and Mahasthangarh as specimens of folk-tribal art. They discovered inspiration and characteristics of the local folk culture in the works of Sultanate-era, considering their strong, lively and soulful motifs as to be extracted from the lokāyata archetype. But, in both the cases, these terracotta-ornamentations exhibit two prominent features: •their sprawling geographical-presence among the common populace of Bengal •their cultural-evolvement and unanimous-acceptance among the natural artistic-sense and aesthetic-belief of the rural-folk. No matter what the scholars say, these temples, mosques and their various ornamentations have been evoking for centuries a kind of awe and esteem in the minds of the local people, instigated by a diversified expanse of mass-culture typical to Bengal. Right from the core-philosophy or source-religion till the final result in form of viewers’ experience – the entire process was monitored by a continued analysis and deconstruction of various cultural-units through a series of conscious-thinking and subconscious-acts. This paper aims to analyze the source and evolution of this wonderful history spreading across fourteen-hundred odd years.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sanjay Sen Gupta•  11  Art History, Art, Architecture, RuralOf Magic, Science, and Religion ( Ch 1)Save to LibraryDownloadby Travis W Shores•  62  Religion, Gnosticism, Parapsychology, Music1998 (1re édition en volume du livre du R.P. Emile Kemlin) Les Reungao. Rites agraires, songes et alliances. Une société proto-indochinoise du Vietnam au début du XXe siècle. Textes réunis et présentés par Pierre Le Roux, 328 p., photos(1re édition en volume du livre du R.P. Emile Kemlin) Les Reungao. Rites agraires, songes et alliances. Une société proto-indochinoise du Vietnam au début du XXe siècle, suivi de « Au Pays Jaraï » (1909) et « L’Immigration annamite en... more(1re édition en volume du livre du R.P. Emile Kemlin) Les Reungao. Rites agraires, songes et alliances. Une société proto-indochinoise du Vietnam au début du XXe siècle, suivi de « Au Pays Jaraï » (1909) et « L’Immigration annamite en pays Moï » (1925). Textes réunis et présentés par Pierre Le Roux ~ ""On associe volontiers le missionnaire à un aventurier, mais plus rarement à un ethnologue. L'œuvre de Kemlin prouve que la recherche anthropologique peut se concilier avec une vocation missionnaire.Au début du XXe siècle, en France, l'ethnologie émergeait sous l'impulsion de « l'école sociologique » d'Emile Durkheim et Marcel Mauss. En Asie du Sud-Est, limitée alors à l'Indochine en ce qui concerne la recherche française, il en était à peine question. Tout au plus quelques rares explorateurs tel Henri Maitre, quelques officiers des troupes coloniales, quelques voyageurs érudits rapportaient-ils une encore bien maigre moisson de faits ethnographiques. Seules trois figures françaises pouvaient soutenir la comparaison face aux travaux des ethnologues anglo-saxons et hollandais. Parmi elles, Emile Kemlin.Le père Marie Joseph Emile Kemlin (1875-1925), de la Société des Missions étrangères de Paris, est l'auteur de trois articles majeurs consacrés à la société des Reungao, Proto-Indochinois (Montagnards ou Moïs) du Vietnam central. Ces articles, parus dans le "Bulletin de l'Ecole française d'Extrême-Orient” de 1909 à 1917, complétés par un article sur les Jörai, autres Proto-Indochinois (1909) et par une brochure inédite consacrée à l'immigration en pays moï (1925), forment un ensemble remarquable par sa qualité et sa modernité. On lira et relira avec plaisir et intérêt cette œuvre qu'il était temps de rééditer. « Personne n'a pénétré aussi profondément et avec une telle richesse la mentalité des Montagnard. [...] La première œuvre vraiment scientifique consacrée à un groupe proto-indochinois » (Georges Condominas) « Des chapitres qui sont au premier rang des travaux sur l'ethnographie indochinoise » (Louis Finot) « Le père Kemlin va se révéler aussi bon missionnaire qu'habile politique et savant ethnologue » (Christian Simonnet) « Je tiens à mentionner l'importance de l’édition pour la première fois en un volume à l’EFEO de l’oeuvre pionnière du père Kemlin sur les Reungao du Vietnam, un texte capital dont je me suis beaucoup servi et qui, en conjonction avec d’autres classiques sur les Proto-Indochinois (de Condominas à Dournes) et sur les Orang Asli de Malaisie m'a permis de préciser les caractéristiques que prenait l’animisme dans cette région du monde en contraste avec ses variantes amérindiennes et sibériennes » (Philippe Descola)Save to LibraryDownloadby Pierre Le Roux•  28  History, Music, Anthropology, EpistemologyБарабан і "тешко оро" - аналіз міфо-символічного і обрядового значення / The Drum and the Dance “Teškoto“ – Analisys of the Mytho-symbolic and Ritual MeaningIn this article we reach the mytho-symbolic and ritual character of the drum considering the Macedonian (and broadely the Balkan) Traditional culture. We summarize its role in the shamanic activities, afterwards assuming its role as the... moreIn this article we reach the mytho-symbolic and ritual character of the drum considering the Macedonian (and broadely the Balkan) Traditional culture. We summarize its role in the shamanic activities, afterwards assuming its role as the mystical «mean of transportation", which in the scope of the Macedonian dance «TeSkoto» enable the dance leader to separate himself from the earth and its traveling to the «other world». There is an atempt the component of the mystical travel to be found in the dancing on one leg (typical for the «Teškoto» dance) and especially in relation with the appropriate pose of the stork / crane as a paradigmatic zoomorphyc traveler between the worlds. The comparative research shows that the drummer often carries within itself the priest functions. Regarding the way of the performing (kicking/hiting) he is also considered as blacksmith and magician. In the Macedonian traditional culture the both functions were accomplished by the foreigners (most frequently the gypsies - blacksmiths). This thesis is focused on one archeological object discovered in Suvodol (near Bitola) representing an animal (horse) head carved in a stone. Its analogies could be traced through the East Europe up to the Caspian coast, and to be connected with the influences and migrations of the Indo-Europeans during the 3rd millennium B.C. We present the hypothesis strasing that this object had sacral caracter with several functions: ruler scepter, drum percussion and magical instrument. All these components emphasize the sacralised animal (horse) as the mediator which was the main factor for achieving the already mentioned functions. At the end we consider the relation between the hiting in the drum, stroke of the thunder, the drummer and the God of Tunder.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikos Chausidis•  29  Hinduism, Music, Anthropology of Music, Cultural SemioticsEl héroe en los relatos folklóricosSave to LibraryDownloadby Juan José Prat Ferrer•  5  Folklore, Folk, Heo, Biograpical Pattern“Re-representations” of Southern San Rock Art on Drostdy Ware Pottery from the 1950sSouth African commercial and production pottery is a highly neglected field of research. In this article I focus on reproductions of San rock paintings on domestic crockery produced by Grahamstown Pottery’s Drostdy Ware in the 1950s.... moreSouth African commercial and production pottery is ahighly neglected field of research. In this article I focus onreproductions of San rock paintings on domestic crockeryproduced by Grahamstown Pottery’s Drostdy Warein the 1950s. At first glance, Drostdy’s Bushman waresappear to resemble clichéd copies of Helen Tongue’s(1909) reproductions. It is argued that Drostdy’s Bushmanwares offer a partial reflection into the complex,evolving and frequently contradictory public sentimentof the 1950s regarding the provenance of San rock art;its raison d’etre; its public profile in the media, literature,popular fiction, scientific literature, the arts, festivalsand exhibitions. This article contends that Drostdy’sBushman wares both espoused and contested contemporaryrealities. The interstitial agency of Drostdy’sBushman wares was asserted via the triangulation oftextual markings on their bases; iconography and design;and compounded by their relative quantitative “weight”.These wares challenge the political neutrality or complicityof much contemporary South African art and craftproduction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Wendy A Gers (PhD)•  46  Critical Theory, Cultural Studies, Music, Cultural SociologyIstikhara: the guidance and practice of Islamic dream incubation.This paper introduces and contextualizes Istikhara, Islamic dream incubation practice, as a way to approach the dynamics of Muslims’ inner and outer worlds as an interrelated process of embodied well‐being. We introduce an... moreThis paper introduces and contextualizes Istikhara, Islamic dream incubation practice, as a way to approach the dynamics of Muslims’ inner and outer worlds as an interrelated process of embodied well‐being. We introduce an anthropologically informed debate on healing dreaming in Islam and Islamic healing dreaming practices. Based on our research, we discuss ethnographic examples of Istikhara as practised by British Pakistanis, Pakistanis and last but not least a case study from a corner of the Muslim world, Muslim Bosnia. We explore a shared propensity to dream, though a culturally informed one, and situate the practice into a general economy of Muslim well‐being.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Henig and +1iain edgar•  17  Music, Narrative, Phenomenology, Bosnia    Reproduction of Folk Heritage , By Saeed El Masry   اعادة انتاج التراث الشعبى : كيف يتشبث الفقراء بالحياة فى ظل الندرة ، تأليف سعيد المصرى "تسعى هذه الدراسة إلى فهم عمليات إعادة إنتاج الثقافة الشعبية بصفة عامة. ويقصد بإعادة الإنتاج الثقافى فى معناه الواسع قدرة اساليب الحياة فى أى مجتمع على استمرار أهم ملامحها عبر التغير . وهذا يعنى ان انتقال العناصر الثقافية الشعبية رأسيا... more"تسعى هذه الدراسة إلى فهم عمليات إعادة إنتاج الثقافة الشعبية بصفة عامة. ويقصد بإعادة الإنتاج الثقافى فى معناه الواسع قدرة اساليب الحياة فى أى مجتمع  على استمرار أهم ملامحها عبر التغير .  وهذا يعنى ان انتقال العناصر الثقافية الشعبية رأسيا عبر الأجيال او أفقيا من خلال التواصل الانسانى لا يعنى استنساخا كاملا وحرفيا لكل ملامحها ولا يعنى ايضا فنائها واستبدالها كليا بعناصر أخرى جديدة ويفترض في تحليل العلاقة بين التراث الشعبي والوضع الطبقي وجود جوانب من التراث تتأثر فيها عمليات إعادة الإنتاج الثقافي بالبعد الطبقي، كما يفترض -في المقابل- وجود جوانب أخرى من إعادة الإنتاج الثقافي تتجاوز البعد الطبقي، ويتعيَّن على هذه الدراسة أن تكشف عن حدود الاتصال والانفصال بين الديناميات الطبقية والديناميات الثقافية.ومن هذا المنطلق فإن تركيز الدراسة سوف ينحصر في دراسة أساليب حياة الفقراء، باعتبارهم يشكِّلون جماعات تقع في أدنى السلم الطبقي، مما يعني أن إمكانياتهم الاجتماعية والاقتصادية، بل والثقافية بالمعنى الرفيع للثقافة، لا تتيح لهم سوى فرص قليلة ومحدودة للتواصل مع الثقافة الحديثة والتغيرات العالمية، ويفترض أن هذه الوضعية الطبقية للفقراء تساهم في خلق تجربة طبقية ذات طبيعة خاصة في إعادة إنتاج الثقافة الشعبية ، وهنا ينبغي على الدراسة أن تكشف عن حدود هذه التجربة، وإلى أي مدى يعد الفقراء قادرين على الإنتاج والتداول الثقافي رغم تدني أحوالهم وندرة إمكانياتهم. يضاف إلى ذلك أن بحوث التراث الشعبي تبرهن دائمًا على شدة ارتباط الفقراء بالتراث الشعبي، فهو بمثابة رأسمالهم الحقيقي في ظل حرمانهم من الوصول إلى الموارد والأصول، ولهذا تفترض الدراسة أيضًا - في منطقها النظري- أن أساليب حياة الفقراء تنطوي على قدر من الثراء ينبغي الكشف عنه لأنه يعبِّر عن سر بقائهم رغم ظروفهم البائسة، كما أن أساليب حياتهم تنطوي على قدر من الاختيار رغم ارتباطها بالندرة والضرورة، وأن حياة الفقراء تمتزج فيها أيضًا العوامل البنائية والثقافية المولدة للفقر.وبناء على ذلك طوَّرت الدراسة تصورًا لعمليات إعادة الإنتاج الثقافة الشعبية بين الفقراء تم تحديده في أربع عمليات، وهي: تواتر العناصر التراثية، واستعادة التراث، واستعارة التراث، وإبداع العناصر التراثية، كما حاولت الدراسة المزج بين النظرية والإمبيريقية في رصد ملامح وأبعاد هذه العمليات والشواهد الدالة عليها، وكذلك الشواهد الإمبيريقية لمختلف آلياتها."Save to LibraryDownloadby Saeed Elmasry•  22  Sociology, Cultural Studies, Music, Folklore Decoding the Elusive Concept of Magical ThinkingThis study explores the categorization of magical thinking within cultural anthropology from a historical context. Across all cultures and throughout history, man has carried the inherent ability for magical cognizance. Magical thinking... moreThis study explores the categorization of magical thinking within cultural anthropology from a historical context. Across all cultures and throughout history, man has carried the inherent ability for magical cognizance. Magical thinking appears to be clearly universal. The concept persists despite instances when it is not consciously recognized or acknowledged. The argument then, for the intent of this study, is not as to whether magical thinking exists universally, or as to the effectiveness of magic; the argument is about how to define and categorize the very concept of magical thinking. Magic has been a key component in defining religion since the latter half of the nineteenth century when the social sciences and religious studies were developing as academic disciplines. It has also been investigated as to what role magic plays in relation to science, and furthermore as a possible catalyst in mediating the bridge between religion and science. There has been much debate since the nineteenth century as to how to distinctly define magical thinking and as to what category the amorphous concept belongs. Where then does magic ultimately belong, into which category does it fall, or is magic completely something unto itself? In order to answer these questions, ‘magical thinking’ needs to be explored in terms of the relationship the concept has with science and with religion. Throughout the history of anthropology, many theorists in the discipline have explored magical thinking, and just as with the many other facets of cultural concepts, the elusive concept of magical thinking has been diversely defined and categorized. In examination from a historical context, an evolution of theories regarding the concept of magic will be critically analyzed in the attempt to decode the categorization of magical thinking.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jody Renee Hance•  27  Religion, Parapsychology, Music, AnthropologySpace, Stone, and Spirit: The Meaning of Placeread at the symposium "The Meaning of Things," May 18, 1996, The Cooper Hewitt, National Design Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, New York City.Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard Etlin•  51  Music, Architecture, Environmental Psychology, Place and IdentityБронзената статуета на „Дедал“ од Плаошник во Охрид - семиотички интерпретации / The Bronze Statue of Daedalus From Plaošnik in Ohrid – Semiotic InterpretationsThe text begins with a depiction of the find, the circumstances of its discovery and of the papers in which it was previously published. It continues with an analysis of its appearance, the posture and the other features of the figure... moreThe text begins with a depiction of the find, the circumstances of its discovery and of the papers in which it was previously published. It continues with an analysis of its appearance, the posture and the other features of the figure represented and its relations to several mythical characters i.e. deities from the Balkan and the Mediterranean traditions: Daedalus, Hephaestus, Bes, Satyr, Silenus, Pan, Priapus, Eros, the Cabeiri and Cadmos. The semiotic i.e. the mythic-symbolic meaning of several elements of the figure represented have been especially analyzed: the artificial wings, the advanced age, the baldness, the hair-covered body, the disproportionate height i.e. dwarfism, the uncovered phallus, the boots, kneeling on one knee, hands placed on the thighs and the pediment. In favour of relating the statue to Daedalus, several examples are given as analogues (the vessels from Tenos, Cerveteri and Boeotia) where the winged Daedalus is presented in a similar position. The relations with Hephaestus can be confirmed with the correspondence of some of its features to the ones of Daedalus (wisdom, technical skills, advanced age). There is a special emphasis on him having wings as an indicator of the mystical journey through the cosmic zones, i.e. the shamanic character typical for the archaic smiths and craftsmen. Furthermore, the morphological and iconographic liaisons of the statue with the representations of the Egyptian god Bes are mentioned, which spreading through the Mediterranean and the Balkan, probably by the Phoenician and the Cypriot smiths, has left traces in the appearance of several characters from the Balkan mythologies. Then, a thorough analysis of Silenus follows, who is related to the Plaošnik statue according to the following features (which simultaneously refer to Bes as well): dwarfism, a beard, baldness, nudity. The age of Silenus is emphasized (as a symbol of wisdom) combined with his affinity for drinking. Again, this refers to the mystical knowledge immanent to shamans, which can be obtained, among other things, by drinking priests’ alcohol potions. The links between the baldness and the ithyphallicism of this character are given through the visual similarities of the bald head and glans penis. Several scientific theories have been apostrophized according to which Silenus should be of Asia-Minorian i.e. of Phrygian origin as a god of rivers and springs, to which his theonym refers. Through the migration of the Bryges (= Phrygians) such descent could be traced as far as their ancient homeland in Macedonia and the Central Balkan. The possible presentation of a winged Silenus could be justified by relating him to Siljan, a mythical character from the contemporary Macedonian folklore, who embodies the key shamanic features of previously described characters. There are traditions and stories that depict him as an immature boy who achieves the status of a mature man by transforming into a stork ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikos Chausidis•  38  Music, Phenomenology, Early Christianity, ShamanismMyth, Ritual and Rock Art: Coso Decorated Animal-Humans and the Animal MasterRecent interpretations of rock art have often focused on these images as a somewhat exclusive record of shamanic experiences. Consideration of decorated animal-human figures (Patterned Body Anthropomorphs - PBAs) within the Coso Rock Art... moreRecent interpretations of rock art have often focused on these images as a somewhat exclusive record of shamanic experiences. Consideration of decorated animal-human figures (Patterned Body Anthropomorphs - PBAs) within the Coso Rock Art Complex in eastern California, in conjunction with the mythology of Kawaiisu, other Numic and Tubatulabal groups, suggests an alternative (or perhaps complementary) view. Coso PBAs may be representations of an important supernatural — possibly the netherworld master of the animals. This interpretation, if valid, provides further support for Coso rock art as a manifestation of a hunting religion complex. Such a complex prominently featured animal ceremonialism and functioned in part as a means to envision a supernatural agent that had special powers controlling the movements of animals and restoring game to the human world.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alan Garfinkel•  46  Religion, Sociology of Religion, Parapsychology, ArchaeologyPHENOMENOLOGY, GENDER & ORAL SEX"The gendered body takes a phenomenological turn in Brower’s cosmopolitan essay on oral sexuality within philosophical, feminist, and lesbian traditions..." ("Editorial" by Michelle Iwen) Abstract: The 'traditional philosophical... more"The gendered body takes a phenomenological turn in Brower’s cosmopolitan essay on oral sexuality within philosophical, feminist, and lesbian traditions..."   ("Editorial" by Michelle Iwen)Abstract:The 'traditional philosophical prestige' of seeing and touching, as analyzed by Emmanuel Levinas, comes to dominate the qualities of the other three senses. An investigation of the roles of these prestigious senses, along with the resultant privileged sense-organs of the hand and the eye, within phenomenology, psychoanalysis, and gender- or queer-theory suggests that the part of the prestige of touch will have been related to its function in the phenomenality of feeling. Yet the sense of taste seems to be as applicable, if not more so, to the phenomenal experience of selfhood based on feeling as theorized by Edmund Husserl and Jean-Luc Marion. The tongue, rather than the hand, is reconsidered as a sense-organ of touch in order to salvage the all but lost tang of the tangible. As such, the tongue and taste not only illuminate the shortcomings of binary gender theories based on either inner feeling or outer surface anatomy (or, either interior orifices or exterior appendages), but further discover a remarkable phenomenology of the body to be found in the writings of Hélène Cixous and Monique Wittig that moves beyond certain masculine tendencies lurking about the hand and observation (as described by Freud and Butler). The phenomenal experience of the other that yields either empathy (for Husserl), love/eros (for Marion), or hearing and heeding 'Thou shall not kill' (for Levinas) has much to learn from the orality of women's writing. The third body, as written by Cixous, can experience the self as selftaste (as considered by Derrida) and experiences the other as the taste of the other. It is, thereby, opened to a love or a justice (or an erotic justice) beyond the proclamation of Levinas that 'ethics is an optics' as well as any ethics as a mere haptics to be found in Husserl or Marion, where feeling seems always determined by the hand.Save to LibraryDownloadby Virgil  Brower•  128  Critical Theory, Cognitive Science, Music, Gender StudiesArtists as Shamans: A Critical and Historical Overview - and Some Friendly Advice to ScholarsSave to LibraryDownloadby Denita M Benyshek, PhD MFA MA LMHC•  109  Screenwriting, Semiotics, Religion, Mythology And FolkloreIn Clean White Shirts and Trousers Morris Costume for Cotswold Morris’"This article examined the development of the 'all-white' morris costume with a focus on the late 19th and early 20th century.  It can be downloaded free of charge from the link below.Save to LibraryDownloadby Chloe Middleton-Metcalfe•  24  Fashion design, Fashion Theory, Dress Studies, Sociology of DressΑ.Χοτζάκογλου, «Βυζαντινές πηγές της Λαογραφίας:Το παράδειγμα της “μετάγγισης” του μύθου της τύφλωσης του στρατηγού Βελισάριου στο Θέατρο Σκιών,Πρακτικά Διεθνούς Επιστημονικού Συνεδρίου («Λαϊκός πολιτισμός & έντεχνος λόγος, Αθήνα 08-12/12/2010)3τ.,Αθήνα: Ακαδημία Αθηνών,2013, 586-608Save to LibraryDownloadby ANTHI CHOTZAKOGLOU•  96  Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Folklore, ImprovisationLa serora vasca: documentos y archivosSave to LibraryDownloadby Roslyn  Frank•  146  Screenwriting, Languages, Religion, New Religious MovementsRethinking Folklore: (Un)answering Pertinent Questions about Folklore Studies in AfrikaSave to LibraryDownloadby Geoff  Mapaya•  17  African Studies, Music, Folklore, PhenomenologyDancing the Past: Experiencing Historical Knowledge in Ohafia, NigeriaSave to LibraryDownloadby John C. McCall•  24  Music, Dance Studies, Dance Studies, Dance AnthropologySites, sacredness, and stories: Interactions of archaeology and contemporary paganismSave to LibraryDownloadby Jenny Blain and +1Robert Wallis•  17  Music, Folklore, Heritage Studies, Phenomenology"Tıva Türklerinin Atasözleri / Proverbs of Tuvan Turks", Folkloristik Prof. Dr. Süleyman T. Kayıpov Armağanı, Ankara 2013, s. 304-319.Save to LibraryDownloadby salih mehmet arçın•  8  Türk Dili, Çağdaş Türk Lehçeleri, Folklor, FolkExploring the Extraordinary Fifth Conference - ABSTRACTSSave to LibraryDownloadby Hannah Gilbert•  46  Religion, Parapsychology, Music, AnthropologyRussian Chastushka and Malay Pantun: A Comparative StudyIn spite of debate and criticism, comparative approach in folklore is useful in appreciating culture of two different countries or societies. This presentation proposes to examine the Russian and Malaya oral lore taking Chastushka and... moreIn spite of debate and criticism, comparative approach in folklore is useful in appreciating culture of two different countries or societies. This presentation proposes to examine the Russian and Malaya oral lore taking Chastushka and Pantun into consideration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Victor  Pogadaev•  14  Music, Phenomenology, Shamanism, ArtsBandar sebagai Cermin Identiti Bangsa: Perbandingan Awal antara Jakarta dan Kuala LumpurCities have always been the centre and catalyst of social, economic and political development of a state, indeed a civilization. In the post-colonial context, states in the process of nation-building usually exhibit their hope, desire and... moreCities have always been the centre and catalyst of social, economic and political development of a state, indeed a civilization. In the post-colonial context, states in the process of nation-building usually exhibit their hope, desire and dreams in the physical articulation of monuments, tall buildings and many other 'national' landmark built in the cities. The case study presented in this essay demonstrates how the physical landscapes of Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur have articulated the drive of Indonesia and Malaysia, respectively, towards nation-making.Save to LibraryDownloadby Shamsul AB•  15  Music, Southeast Asian Studies, Phenomenology, ShamanismStrange Pain: Textual Expressions from Africa and the CaribbeanSave to LibraryDownloadby Karla O Poewe•  87  Critical Theory, Religion, Personality Psychology, MusicReproductive Symbolism, Fertility, and Forager Ideology""Coso Range rock drawings are a central subject and focus for debates positing alternative meanings and agents responsible for animal depictions in Great Basin prehistoric rock art. We present new evidence offering a middle ground... more""Coso Range rock drawings are a central subject and focus for debates positing alternative meanings and agents responsible for animal depictions in Great Basin prehistoric rock art. We present new evidence offering a middle ground between the divergent views of the ‘hunting religion, increase rites, and overkill’ and the ‘shaman, visions and rain-making’ models. We argue that rock-art images, in general, possess multivocality and manifest inter-related conceptual metaphors operating on a variety of scales simultaneously. We recognize that Coso pictures, in one sense, metaphorically represent increase and renewal, human and animal fertility, and game animal magnification. Evidence for that perspective is presented including Coso bighorn with up-raised tails, ‘spirit arrows’, animals giving birth, those that appear pregnant, and an abundance of animals evidencing vitality and movement. Ritual adept shamans also appear to have often been the religious specialists or agents responsible for Coso rock art and the sources for fashioning these images were frequently visionary experiences."Save to LibraryDownloadby Alan Garfinkel•  67  Creative Writing, Creative Writing, Critical Theory, ReligionLa quercia della rinascita. Un rito arboreo in Penisola Sorrentina tra guarigione e iniziazioneSave to LibraryDownloadby Giovanni Gugg•  9  Ritual, Religion and Ecology, Anthropology Of Nature, Popular religionMadill, A. (2009) Spontaneous combustion.Spontaneous combustion occurs when an object self-ignites. The cause may be chemical, as when lithium oxidises explosively in water, or biological, as when a haystack catches fire due to heat generated from bacterial fermentation. There... moreSpontaneous combustion occurs when an object self-ignites. The cause may be chemical, as when lithium oxidises explosively in water, or biological, as when a haystack catches fire due to heat generated from bacterial fermentation. There is no scientific evidence that the human body can self-ignite. However, spontaneous human combustion (SHC) as an alleged cause of death has a long and controversial history. If true, the mechanism of ignition is mysterious and challenges what we know about the human body.....Save to LibraryDownloadby Anna Madill•  91  Religion, Psychology, Parapsychology, MusicΑ.Χοτζάκογλου,«Η παρουσία των Σπαθάρηδων στην Κύπρο: οι μαρτυρίες του Μουσείου Λαϊκής Τέχνης Κύπρου», Κυπριακαί Σπουδαί ΟΓ΄ (2009) (Λ/σία, 2011), 191-211, πίν. 51-6.«The presence of Greek shadow puppeteers Sotiris and Evgenios Spatharis in Cyprus: testimonies of N. Ioannou’ s Archive at the Folk Art Museum of Cyprus (F.A.M.C.)» Abstract: The famous Greek shadow puppeteers Sot. And Evg. Spatharis paid... more«The presence of Greek shadow puppeteers Sotiris and Evgenios Spatharis in Cyprus: testimonies of N. Ioannou’ s Archive at the Folk Art Museum of Cyprus (F.A.M.C.)»Abstract: The famous Greek shadow puppeteers Sot. And Evg. Spatharis paid their first visit in Cyprus in September of 1953.Although their performances had a great success, the dramatic earthquake of Pafos caused their early departure. However, they managed to meet, lure, challenge and influence several Cypriot shadow puppeteers.The present essay focuses on this specific artistic “dialogue”, following tracks located in bibliography, past Press, Archives of shadow puppets and related equipment. After researching on the archives of F.A.M.C., Spatharis’ family and Cypriot shadow puppeteers’, it becomes clear that a part of the Spatharis’ equipment used in 1953, finds shelter at the F.A.M.C., through N. Ioannou’ s (shadow puppeteer, magician, folk painter) collection, which was bought in 1979.More than ten objects, mostly misplaced, seem to derive from Spatharis’ artistic hand, whilst certain drawings, jokes, scenography, artistic tactics, still revive nowadays in Cypriot Shadow Puppet Theatre.This study aims in highlighting not only aspects of great artistic personalities as Spatharis, whose memory is dedicated, but also the fluidity of the art of Shadow Theatre and family ties between Shadow Theatre of Greece and Cyprus.Save to LibraryDownloadby ANTHI CHOTZAKOGLOU•  61  Cultural Studies, Art History, Performing Arts, Theatre StudiesFragments - A Dance Theater Performance "Seven Sages of Bamboo Grove".Save to LibraryDownloadby Yin Mei•  25  Music, Creative processes in contemporary dance, Dance Medicine and Science, Dance ScienceHealing Practices and Mahima Dharma: A short notice on recent fieldwork in Western OrissaIn the context of my research on Mahima Dharma, I came across many incidents of healing. I was, again and again, told by Mahima Dharmees how they miraculously got cured from snake bites, sick-ness and divers diseases. It became quite dear... moreIn the context of my research on Mahima Dharma, I came across many incidents of healing. I was, again and again, told by Mahima Dharmees how they miraculously got cured from snake bites, sick-ness and divers diseases. It became quite dear that healing was not only a side aspect of this religious movement but a fundamental part. The following note is investigating this interesting phenomenon.Save to LibraryDownloadby Johannes Beltz•  24  Music, Phenomenology, Shamanism, Gilles DeleuzeChant du destin et identité nationale : la promotion du falak tadjik
The song of destiny and national identity: the promotion of Tajik falakIn Tajikistan today, the state discourse on reclaiming identity emphasizes popular culture, particularly with regard to music. This paper analyzes the process of the enhanced prestige of the falak musical genre, trying to understand how... moreIn Tajikistan today, the state discourse on reclaiming identity emphasizes popular culture, particularly with regard to music. This paper analyzes the process of the enhanced prestige of the falak musical genre, trying to understand how various social actors – such as governmental institutions, academics and musicians – perceive it, and the stakes involved by this process. A “folk” music is redefined and made classical in order to be inserted into a political discourse, which seeks to erase regional differences and establish a national specificity. Although the state obviously aims at building a national cultural identity, the real impact of its discourse remains hardly measurable, as it is reinterpreted by musicians. Indeed, while taking advantage of this movement for their reputation, they prefer understanding it as a legitimate recognition of their musical tradition, artistic as well as spiritual. More than a reinvention of the history of music through an idealized vision of culture, the issue here is the one of music as a symbol of memory. The study of the identity mechanism at work through this musical repertoire reveals as much the difficulties of defining a music as a “national Tajik” one, as the variety of benchmarks from which the folk musical tradition in present-day Tajikistan draws.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ariane Zevaco•  11  Music, Tajikistan, Identity, TraditionΟ ΑΓΙΟΣ ΛΑΖΑΡΟΣ, Ο ΒΙΟΣ ΤΟΥ KAI TO KITION/ST. LAZARUS, HIS VITA AND THE TOWN OF CITIUM'Επανεξέταση των πηγών σχετικὰ μέ τήν παρουσία του αγ. Λαζάρου στήν Κύπρο, τό βίο του καὶ τὴ μεσαιωνικὴ όνομασία τῆς πόλεως του σημερινού Κιτίου/reevaluation of the written sources regarding St. Lazarus in Cyprus, his Vita and the... more'Επανεξέταση των πηγών σχετικὰ μέ τήν παρουσία του αγ. Λαζάρου στήν Κύπρο, τό βίο του καὶ τὴ μεσαιωνικὴ όνομασία τῆς πόλεως του σημερινού Κιτίου/reevaluation of the written sources regarding St. Lazarus in Cyprus, his Vita and the medieval name of the today Larnaca, Cyprus.Save to LibraryDownloadby Charalampos CHOTZAKOGLOU•  34  Archaeology, Maritime Archaeology, Music, ArchitectureNextLast »Related TopicsMalaysian Magic and FolkloreFollowFollowingHealing CeremoniesFollowFollowingBeliefs & ValuesFollowFollowingArtsFollowFollowingAfrican Popular CultureFollowFollowingThe SensesFollowFollowingRitualsFollowFollowingExperienceFollowFollowingShamanismFollowFollowingDanceFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023