Environment Agency - Abstractions from all surface waters and groundwater
28 captures
25 Nov 2009 - 26 Sep 2022
Oct
NOV
Feb
25
2008
2009
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Memory Foundation
  Data crawled on behalf of Internet Memory Foundation.  This data is currently not publicly accessible.
from Wikipedia:
The Internet Memory Foundation (formerly the European Archive Foundation) is a non profit foundation whose purpose is archiving web content, it supports projects and research which include the preservation and protection of multimedia content. Its archives form a digital library of cultural content.
Collection: Internet Memory Foundation
  Data crawled on behalf of Internet Memory Foundation.  This data is currently not publicly accessible.
from Wikipedia:
The Internet Memory Foundation (formerly the European Archive Foundation) is a non profit foundation whose purpose is archiving web content, it supports projects and research which include the preservation and protection of multimedia content. Its archives form a digital library of cultural content.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20091125040346/http://www.environment-agency.gov.uk/research/library/data/112185.aspx
Skip to content
Skip to main navigation
 
Search Search  
Cymraeg
A
A
A
About us
Jobs
Contact us
Sitemap
Help
Home
Planning & research
Our library
Data & statistics
Environmental facts & figures
Corporate strategy evidence
Water
Water - part two
Water abstraction
Abstractions from all surface waters and groundwater
 
WATER: graphs and data (Microsoft Excel 0.22MB)
This graph shows the volume of water abstracted yearly from licence holders in England and Wales, from 2000 to 2007. The data is split by type of extraction. The main extractor since 2000 has been electricity supply and public water supply.
The volume of water abstracted has reduced slightly over the last seven years, primarily due to less being used in electricity production. However, most of the freshwater abstracted for electricity production is returned to rivers and can be used again downstream.
Â© Environment Agency 2009 | Privacy policy | Terms and conditions
Author: The Environment Agency | enquiries@environment-agency.gov.uk
          Last updated: 20 November 2009
   