Personality Psychology Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Personality Psychology114,744 FollowersRecent papers in Personality PsychologyTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleThe role of personality in predicting drug and alcohol use among sexual minoritiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Nicholas A. Livingston, Ph.D.•  3  Personality Psychology, LGBT Youth, Substance use and abuseLeadership, Idiosyncrasies, and Political Behaviour: Personality Analyses of Presidents Donald Trump and Andrew JacksonHow do leaders' idiosyncrasies are developed, and how do these, in turn, impact their political behaviour? This study traces the idiosyncratic behaviour of Presidents Andrew Jackson and Donald Trump. It details four historical... moreHow do leaders' idiosyncrasies are developed, and how do these, in turn, impact their political behaviour? This study traces the idiosyncratic behaviour of Presidents Andrew Jackson and Donald Trump. It details four historical traditions-Hamiltonian, Wilsonian, Jeffersonian, and Jacksonian. The study expands upon Jacksonian tradition and sees that how Trump pursued this tradition and how is his political behaviour remained similar to that of Andrew Jackson. Three specific areas in which these variables are determined are personal lives, narcissism and authoritarian behaviour, and populism and corruption. The paper also charts out the ways and means through which Donald Trump's administration is termed as Jacksonian in nature.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr Muhammad Nadeem  Mirza•  16  Personality Psychology, American Studies, Political Behavior, Political PsychologyRecente MMPI-2 ontwikkelingen: van Restructured Clinical (RC) scales tot Restructured Form (MMPI-2-RF)Sinds de publicatie van de Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2; Derksen, de Mey, Sloore, & Hellenbosch; 2006) werden een aantal kleine wijzigingen doorgevoerd (bijvoorbeeld toevoeging van subschalen aan de... moreSinds de publicatie van de Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2; Derksen, de Mey, Sloore, & Hellenbosch; 2006) werden een aantal kleine wijzigingen doorgevoerd (bijvoorbeeld toevoeging van subschalen aan de inhoudsschalen). Met de invoering van de ‘Restructured Clinical (RC) Scales werden echter nieuwe basisschalen ingevoerd (Tellegen, Ben-Porath, McNulty, Arbisi, Graham & Kaemmer, 2003). Recent kwam er een nieuwe versie van de MMPI-2: de MMPI-2 Restructured Form (MMPI-2-RF: Ben-Porath & Tellegen, 2008; Tellegen & Ben-Porath, 2008). Bij deze versie staan de RC-schalen centraal, zijn er minder items dan bij de MMPI-2 en zijn er 50 nieuwe en herziene schalen.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mercedes De Weerdt•Personality PsychologyDynamisms in the Highly Sensitive PersonThis Powerpoint presentation, delivered at the 2016 Dabrowski World Congress in Alberta, Canada presented, for the first time, new data indicating that highly sensitive people rank high on several categories of Overexcitabilities, as... moreThis Powerpoint presentation, delivered at the 2016 Dabrowski World Congress in Alberta, Canada presented, for the first time, new data indicating that highly sensitive people rank high on several categories of Overexcitabilities, as defined and elucidated by Kazimierz Dabrowski's Theory of Positive Disintegration).  Through data gleaned from a large survey (conducted in 2014) it was found that highly sensitive people are especially high in emotional overexcitability and imaginational overexcitability.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tracy Cooper, Ph.D.•  11  Personality Psychology, Creativity, Transpersonal Psychology, Depth PsychologyThe Development and Validation of a New Machiavellianism ScaleA new measure of Machiavellianism, the Machiavellian Personality Scale (MPS), was developed and validated over two studies. Machiavellianism is conceptualized as one's propensity to distrust others, engage in amoral manipulation, seek... moreA new measure of Machiavellianism, the Machiavellian Personality Scale (MPS), was developedand validated over two studies. Machiavellianism is conceptualized as one's propensity to distrustothers, engage in amoral manipulation, seek control over others, and seek status for oneself StudyI developed and tested the factor structure of the scale, whereas Study 2 provided evidence for theconvergent, divergent, and criterion-related validity of the MPS. The results of these studies supportedthe a priori factor structure of the MPS and indicated that it is a valid predictor of such outcomesas job satisfaction, task performance, and counterproductive work behaviorsSave to LibraryDownloadby Jason Dahling and +1Brian Whitaker•  6  Personality Psychology, Counterproductive Work Behavior, Machiavellianism, Dark Triad Dreams of Death. OMEGA: the Journal of Death and Dying, 1988, Vol. 19, p. 95-102.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deirdre Barrett•  375  Neuroscience, Psychology, Abnormal Psychology, Applied PsychologyKYKOLOGY NATURE AND NURTURE SELF ACTUALIZATIONKYKOLOGY Unified Grand Theory of Personality measures both the covert and overt behavior of its five dimensions via Self-Actualization, Egocentric, Social, Security and Complexity to enhance the accuracy of predicting human differences.Save to LibraryDownloadby BERNARD TAN A H THAU•Personality PsychologyDevelopment and Validation of the YSC Potential GuideThe objective of this project was to develop a self-report tool that measures the YSC Model of Potential, and to validate its scales against a range of external criteria. The poster describes the main steps in the development of the tool... moreThe objective of this project was to develop a self-report tool that measures the YSC Model of Potential, and to validate its scales against a range of external criteria. The poster describes the main steps in the development of the tool based on Saville Consulting Wave and initial validation data.Authors:Dr. Rainer Kurz, Gabby Parry, Rab MacIver, Heidi Oxley,Chris Small & Anna Mitchener (Saville Consulting UK Ltd)Ken Rowe, Matt Brown & Rachel Robinson (YSC)Save to LibraryDownloadby Rainer Kurz•  4  Personality Psychology, Personality Assessment, High performance, Personality TheoryPsychopathology and Atmospheres - Contents and Foreword 29.Save to LibraryDownloadby tonino  griffero and +1Gianni Francesetti•  5  Personality Psychology, Philosophy, Aesthetics, Psychotherapy and CounselingOn Being Moved by Art: How Reading Fiction Transforms the SelfAn experiment tested the hypothesis that art can cause significant changes in the experience of one's own personality traits under laboratory conditions. After completing a set of questionnaires, including the Big-Five Inventory (BFI) and... moreAn experiment tested the hypothesis that art can cause significant changes in the experience of one's own personality traits under laboratory conditions. After completing a set of questionnaires, including the Big-Five Inventory (BFI) and an emotion checklist, the experimental group read the short story The Lady With the Toy Dog by Chekhov, while the control group read a comparison text that had the same content as the story, but was documentary in form. The comparison text was controlled for length, readability, complexity, and interest level. Participants then completed again the BFI and emotion checklist, randomly placed within a larger set of questionnaires. The results show the experimental group experienced significantly greater change in self-reported experience of personality traits than the control group, and that emotion change mediated the effect of art on traits. Further consideration should be given to the role of art in the facilitation of processes of personality growth and maturation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jordan  Peterson and +1Keith Oatley•  4  Personality Psychology, Art, Fiction, Personality ChangeWhat Do People Desire in Their Leaders? The Effect of Leadership Experience on Desired Leadership TraitsPurpose – To determine how leadership experience affects the value leaders place on leadership traits. In particular, we sought to determine if individuals with different amounts of leadership experience deferentially desire traits... morePurpose – To determine how leadership experience affects the value leaders place on leadership traits. In particular, we sought to determine if individuals with different amounts of leadership experience deferentially desire traits related to dominance and cooperation. Design/methodology/approach – Participants reported the importance of dominant and cooperative traits for an ideal leader, and reported the number of leadership roles that they had experienced.Findings – The desirability of dominance-related traits decreased as leadership experience increased, but only for women. In contrast, the desirability of cooperation-related traits remained the same, regardless of leadership experience or gender.Implications – Overall, these findings suggest leaders learn to desire different traits as they gain leadership experience. Implications of this research may exist in both business and political domains. In business, interview and selection decisions may depend on the leadership experience and gender of the decision-maker. Organizations should carefully select members of the organization to make these critical hiring decisions. In politics, candidates would be wise to consider the leadership experience and gender of constituents in their self-presentation attempts.Originality/value – This research presents the first examination of the effect of leadership experience on the desirability of leader personality traits. In addition, this is one of the first studies to refocus on the dominance/cooperation dichotomy—a promising focus for future trait research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Austin Lee Nichols•  5  Personality Psychology, Personality, Leadership, GenderPsychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative ReligionIn order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is anxiously seeking to find new therapies to address the increasing disorders within the human psyche. In the process new fields of research,... moreIn order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is anxiously seeking to find new therapies to address the increasing disorders within the human psyche. In the process new fields of research, such as humanistic and transpersonal psychology, curiously appear to borrow more and more from the wisdom of the ages. This volume, containing eighteen articles by noteworthy expositors of the perennial philosophy such as Huston Smith, Seyyed Hossein Nasr, and Frithjof Schuon, presents the spiritual psychology of the wisdom traditions as a much-needed antidote to the current impasse in modern psychology.Some Endorsements for Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy:“[Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy] is more than an anthology. It is a wisely crafted collection of classic and contemporary scholarship noting that what many are seeking is what has always been, a perennial philosophy, that remains foundational. As one of the authors, Tage Lindbom, properly notes, ‘Secularization is a fish in troubled waters.’ This book claims the waters and is essential reading for all those who may have forgotten or are simply ignorant of the rich foundation provided by the perennial philosophy.”—Ralph W. Hood, Professor of Psychology at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, past president of the Psychology of Religion division of the American Psychological Association, co-founder of The International Journal for the Psychology of Religion and co-author of The Psychology of Religion“A necessary and bracing critique of the assumptions and limitations of contemporary Western psychology, this generous volume is also a passionate call and learned guide towards a truer perspective that embraces man's spiritual nature.”—Gabor Maté, M.D., and author of In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts: Close Encounters with Addiction “Knowing the nature of the mind is perhaps the most difficult undertaking, especially in today’s world. To comprehend the nature of mind one needs to turn to the domain of religion and spirituality. Yet the truth of the mind and its complexity cannot explicitly be defined in words. Inner or transcendent wisdom sees the mind’s own nature without the duality of the seer. Suchness (tathatā) of mind is only experiential and not expressible. The words used to describe thought are themselves a product of thought, which is conditioned and limited. Thus, differences and contradictions are unavoidable. Therefore, a comparative study of different viewpoints and commentaries is immensely important to awaken the inner intelligence to see the mind as it is. Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative Religion edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is an outstanding effort in this direction.”—Samdhong Rinpoche, former Prime Minister (Kalon Tripa) of the Tibetan Government-in-exile, author of Uncompromising Truth for a Compromised World: Tibetan Buddhism and Today’s World “The rise of psychology has impacted the study and practice of spirituality, the experiences and attitudes relevant to ultimate human values that transcend ordinary behavior. Each chapter of this remarkable book demonstrates this interaction in a unique and provocative way. But rather than using psychology to reduce and ‘psychologize’ spiritual topics, its authors demonstrate how directives from the spiritual traditions can enhance and even illuminate the enduring importance of psychology in the 21st century.”—Stanley Krippner, Saybrook University, co-author of Spiritual Dimensions of Healing “The work at hand is a thinking and debating man’s delight. If you have any interest at all in attempting to include an educated and enlightened view of man’s higher functions in your purview of the world, you will learn from and enjoy this collection of essays. If you already have some knowledge in this area, brace yourself: you may see some of your favorites sharply criticized. A thought-provoking work.”—Bruce W. Scotton, University of California, San Francisco, co-editor of Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology “This book, superbly edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos, is a masterful critique of the field of psychology and its loss of the sacred ground in which it once was rooted. It offers depth psychologists an opportunity to contemplate timeless truths echoed through the centuries by perennial philosophers who have always claimed psyche is subordinate to Spirit. Although ignored in depth psychology’s early years due to prejudice and lack of understanding, this is a message today’s psychotherapists must take seriously. Human beings need a deeper and wider transpersonal vision of who and what we are, which the saints and sages of the world’s spiritual traditions have always pointed to. In psychotherapy with a therapist committed to such a vision, patients penetrate into their unconscious depths and not infrequently awaken to the Ground of all Being. Their suffering itself occurred because they had turned away from Spirit. Above all, this volume passionately calls upon depth psychology to remember its origin in the perennial wisdom at the core of the great religions. There is something of a polemic in these pages. It deserves to be considered by depth psychologists of all persuasions.” —Bryan Wittine, Transpersonal psychologist and Jungian psychoanalyst “This anthology from Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is a must reference for anyone who is interested in psychology and its relationship to spirituality, and in developing an inclusive dialogue between disciplines that favor an integral outlook on the person and his or her potential. Selections in this anthology will inspire us to reexamine the metaphysical underpinnings of psychology, and remind us how important it is to rise above science’s attempt to reduce the human being to an epistemic object.”—Sangeetha Menon, National Institute of Advanced Studies (Bangalore, India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Beyond Experience: Consciousness in Bhagavad Gita “This anthology has some of the most discerning essays and reviews on spirituality and psychology, which provide much-needed care and caution to all those engaged in bringing them together or who wish to do so in future. Therefore, it is a must-read for all those who teach, research, consult, or study in such frontier areas as transpersonal psychology, states of consciousness, mind-body relation, holistic health, Indian psychology, and so on. It will be an invaluable textbook for courses in these and other related areas. I congratulate the editor of the book.”—Kiran Kumar K. Salagame, University of Mysore (India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Psychology of Meditation: A Contextual Approach “One of the finest collections of essays on the Perennial Philosophy—a must-read for all psychologists who are engaged with spirituality and transpersonal psychology. The essays which critique modern psychology (including transpersonal psychology, and the framework of Carl Jung), in the light of the Perennial Philosophy are a revelation and make compelling reading. The book serves as a corrective to the excesses of modern psychology, and to this end Sotillos has done a commendable job. I for one will include the book in some of the graduate courses that I teach.”—Suneet Varma, University of Delhi, co-editor of Foundations of Indian Psychology “To its credit modern science by-and-large is becoming more cognizant of the essential connection between spirituality and psychological health and well-being and most of all its positive implications within the field of psychology. While there is ample data to document this in a plethora of academic journals and books, this new book Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy adds a novel contribution to the dialogue between psychology and spirituality, which captures many nuances that for the most part go unnoticed within these discussions, and last but not least, it provides a keen eye of discernment to understand this intricate relationship on a deeper level that is crucially needed. This work will be a valuable asset to students and long term mental health practitioners and professors alike who seek to better understand the relationship between psychology and spirituality.”—Harold G. Koenig, Duke University, Director of the Center for Spirituality, Theology and Health, co-author of The Handbook of Religion and HealthSave to LibraryDownloadby Samuel Bendeck Sotillos•  260  Religion, New Religious Movements, Comparative Religion, HistoryPolitical Psychology: Critical PerspectivesThis book provides an introduction to political psychology through a focus on European politics and topics. It describes a style of doing political psychology in Europe that has developed out of dialogue with as well as critique of North... moreThis book provides an introduction to political psychology through a focus on European politics and topics. It describes a style of doing political psychology in Europe that has developed out of dialogue with as well as critique of North American approaches. By emphasising the theoretical and methodological diversity of political psychology, the book is intended to contribute to a greater understanding of the strength and utility of the field. • Opens up and extends the study of political psychology to a variety of socio-political contexts and manifestations of political behaviour • Clearly outlines the usefulness and promises of distinctive critical approaches in social and political psychology • Explicitly considers the role of language, communication, identity and social representations in the construction of political meanings. Political Psychology will appeal to upper-level students and scholars who seek to extend their knowledge of the complex relationship between psychology, politics and society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cristian Tileaga•  28  Discourse Analysis, Social Movements, Personality Psychology, Personality PsychologyPolitical Psychology: Critical PerspectivesThis book provides an introduction to political psychology through a focus on European politics and topics. It describes a style of doing political psychology in Europe that has developed out of dialogue with as well as critique of North... moreThis book provides an introduction to political psychology through a focus on European politics and topics. It describes a style of doing political psychology in Europe that has developed out of dialogue with as well as critique of North American approaches. By emphasising the theoretical and methodological diversity of political psychology, the book is intended to contribute to a greater understanding of the strength and utility of the field. • Opens up and extends the study of political psychology to a variety of socio-political contexts and manifestations of political behaviour • Clearly outlines the usefulness and promises of distinctive critical approaches in social and political psychology • Explicitly considers the role of language, communication, identity and social representations in the construction of political meanings. Political Psychology will appeal to upper-level students and scholars who seek to extend their knowledge of the complex relationship between psychology, politics and society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cristian Tileaga•  28  Discourse Analysis, Social Movements, Personality Psychology, Personality PsychologyTheory-and-Practice-of-Psychotherapy-with-Specific-Disorders.pdfAmazon Purchasing Link: https://www.amazon.com/theory-practice-psychotherapy-specific-disorders/dp/0398025398 DOI Link: https://doi.org/10.1192/bjp.123.3.363-a Book Description: This book is unique in several basic ways. It... moreAmazon Purchasing Link: https://www.amazon.com/theory-practice-psychotherapy-specific-disorders/dp/0398025398  DOI Link:https://doi.org/10.1192/bjp.123.3.363-a  Book Description: This book is unique in several basic ways.  It presents a theoretical discussion of the essence of the psychotherapeutic process, which goes beyond just the remediation of pathological symptoms, and also acquaints the reader with the essence of the growth process, which enables one to continue one's personal growth beyond the removal of pathological symptoms to personal maturity, fulfillment, and self-realization. This book is also unique in that its format approaches the understanding of the therapeutic process through the understanding of the treatment of patients with specific psychopathologies discussed by consistently successful professional psychotherapists. This book is unique as well in that in addition to the various major neurotic and psychotic disorders, it also covers areas rarely, if ever, found discussed in other psychotherapy books, such as psychodynamics and psychotherapy of suicidal patients, psychotherapy of patients with psychosomatic disorders, psychotherapy of patients with acting-out disorders, psychotherapy of patients with sexual disorders, psychotherapy with the aged, and an entire chapter devoted to establishig some basic criteria for an effective psychotherapy process. Essentially, this book is designed to serve as a source book or reference book for professional psychotherapists, and students studying to be psychotherapists in such fields as psychology, psychiatry and social work, and it could also be useful as a textbook for advanced courses in psychotherapy, as well as a supplemental text for basic introductory courses in psychotherapy.  Each of the contributors has deliberately taken the pains to try to communicate in a way that will be intelligible to the student, as well as offer material that will be new, informative, and challenging to the more sophisticated clinician. This book goes beyond being what may be called a how-to-do-it type primer. It is not meant to be a structured "cookbook" or set of formulas blueprinting the course of psychotherapy. Each contributor to this book is a renowned authority  in the area of the treatment of the specific disorder  about which he is writing, and he shares with the reader his understanding of the basic nature of the disorder, along with the therapeutic  considerations and insights that he has found to be most valuable in dealing effectively and successfully with persons with this particular kind of pathology. Case illustrations are appropriately supplied in order to help clarify  for the reader how this contributing therapist deals with the particular kinds of patients under discussion.  However, the suggestions made by each contributor should in no way be interpreted as the only way such problems can be approached and resolved. Rather, it only represents the way that one outstanding clinician tends to deal with the special problems involved in the treatment of persons with the particular disorder under discussion, and it is meant to serve only as a helpful guide for the reader. As the reader may have already gathered,  the emphasis in this book is primarily focused on the professional and practical aspects rather than on the academic aspects of psychotherapy.  It is meant to fill a void and be consistent with a growing trend today in which professional clinicians and students studying to be psychotherapists want material to study that will provide them with the necessary skills most relevant to exactly what they will be doing in their professional career, rather than the strongly academic emphasis to which they have been exposed at most educational institutions. This book recognizes that effective psychotherapy is not something that can be learned by being exposed only to theories, techniques, or research findings. Psychotherapy is not just a doing, or a predetermined set of techniques, as such, and, therefore, there is no formula, or systematic defined procedure, that has to be mastered. Rather, it involves an empathically sensitive, genuinely caring, engaged, being-with or intimate experiential communion, and the understanding of patients that naturally arises from that, from which then flows the therapist's appropriate responses. One has to truly, and deeply, here before one can act appropriately and meaningfully. Thus, the best way for one to really come to learn anything significant about effective psychotherapy is to have those clinicians who are truly masters of the art and science of psychotherapy share with others their sensitive and profound understanding of the nature of psychotherapy with patients with particular pathological symptoms.Save to LibraryDownloadby Max  Hammer•  20  Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Personality Psychology, Social PsychologyWhen is narcissism associated with low empathy? A meta-analytic reviewNarcissism is commonly associated with low empathy, but empirical studies have used diverse methods, yielding mixed findings. The present meta-analysis examined the overall magnitude of the association between grandiose and vulnerable... moreNarcissism is commonly associated with low empathy, but empirical studies have used diverse methods, yielding mixed findings. The present meta-analysis examined the overall magnitude of the association between grandiose and vulnerable narcissism and affective and cognitive empathy (N = 32200). Grandiose narcissism was significantly negatively associated with self-reported cognitive (r = −0.085) and affective (r = −0.145) empathy. When empathy was measured behaviourally, grandiose narcissism was significantly associated only with affective empathy (r = −0.251) but not cognitive empathy (r = −0.052). Vulnerable narcissism was significantly negatively associated with self-reported cognitive and affective empathy (r = −0.179 and r = −0.105 respectively). The association between vulnerable narcissism and cognitive empathy measured behaviourally was not significant (r = −0.069). The association between narcissism and empathy is nuanced and depends on various conceptual and methodological factors.Save to Libraryby Erica Hepper•  9  Personality Psychology, Empathy (Psychology), Narcissism (Psychology), Individual DifferencesThe psychology of perfectionism: Theory, research, applications [2018]This milestone text provides a comprehensive and state-of-the art overview of perfectionism theory, research, and treatment from the past 25 years, with contributions from the leading researchers in the field. The book examines new... moreThis milestone text provides a comprehensive and state-of-the art overview of perfectionism theory, research, and treatment from the past 25 years, with contributions from the leading researchers in the field. The book examines new theories and perspectives including the social disconnection model of perfectionism and the 2 × 2 model of perfectionism. It also reviews empirical findings, with a special focus on stress, vulnerability, and resilience, and examines perfectionism in specific populations. Finally, it considers how perfectionism relates to physical health and psychophysiological processes and introduces new approaches to effective prevention and treatment. By increasing our understanding of perfectionism as a complex personality disposition and providing a framework for future explorations, this landmark publication aims to promote further research in this field. It will be invaluable reading for academics, students, and professionals in personality psychology, clinical and counselling psychology, applied psychology and related disciplines.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joachim Stoeber•  72  Psychology, Behavioural Science, Clinical Psychology, Cognitive Behavioral TherapySocial and emotional skills for student success and well-being: Conceptual framework for the OECD study on social and emotional skillsIn an increasingly fast-changing, complex and diverse world, social and emotional skills are becoming ever more important. In this paper we present an overview of literature on social and emotional skills, describing the nature and... moreIn an increasingly fast-changing, complex and diverse world, social and emotional skills are becoming ever more important. In this paper we present an overview of literature on social and emotional skills, describing the nature and structure of these skills, their development, malleability and factors that influence them, their cross-cultural comparability and their relevance for a wide range of educational, economic and life outcomes. The paper also represents a conceptual framework for the OECD’s new Study on Social and Emotional Skills, an international survey that assesses 10- and 15-year-old students in a number of cities and countries around the world.We focus on the underlying skills within and outside of the widely researched Big Five model that are found to be more predictive and policy relevant. We examine the relationships of these skills with a variety of indicators of individual and societal wellbeing such as education, employment and income, health, and personal well-being. The paper discusses the structure of child’s social and emotional skills and the developmental trajectories of these skills across a lifetime. It presents the evidence of malleability of these skills as well as their relevance across a wide range of cultural contexts.Save to LibraryDownloadby Miloš Kankaraš•  10  Personality Psychology, International Studies, Personality, The big fiveMA Dissertation: Psychological and Religious Dimensions of Personal Transformation: Psychodynamic approaches to the Ignatian Exercises Submitted byPsychological and Religious Dimensions of Personal Transformation: Psychodynamic approaches to the Ignatian Exercises by Martin J. Egan Ignatius of Loyola has been recognised by modern psychologists as the innovator of Christian... morePsychological and Religious Dimensions of Personal Transformation:Psychodynamic approaches to the Ignatian Exercises by Martin J. EganIgnatius of Loyola has been recognised by modern psychologists as the innovator of Christian developmental psychology. The depth of psychological penetration displayed by Ignatius in his Spiritual Exercises is examined from a psychodynamic perspective. An overview of the series of meditations and practises of the first two weeks of the Ignatian four week retreat, including vignettes from individual experiences, is presented. I propose the Spiritual Exercises are a form of ‘transformative practise’ based on Christian theology. The religious and psychological transformations that can occur through engaging with the Spiritual Exercises are explored. The thesis draws on the psychological literature addressing the Spiritual Exercises, together with extensive unpublished lectures, given by Jung between June 1939 and March 1940 in Zurich. I argue that Ignatius’ guidelines for the ‘discernment of spirits’ are the key to the psychological dimension of the Exercises. Ignatius’ instructions for the retreat guide/director and the individual’s testing of their inner experience are also shown to be critical. A psychodynamic interpretation of the processes that often occur in individuals during the Ignatian retreat is presented using texts which primarily offer a post-Freudian perspective. Particular attention is given to Jung’s interest in the Exercises, which opens the possibilities of elucidating a Jungian perspective. I also suggest a Kleinian interpretation as an additional approach. The central role of the imagination in the Exercises is highlighted.I focus on the first and second weeks because I want to draw out how individuals’ experiences in this period of the exercises can be paralleled to stages of psychological development. After the first two weeks, psychological language proves inadequate to interpret the spiritual process Ignatius envisaged. These first two phases prove amenable to psychodynamic interpretations that help illuminate both the Exercises and our understanding of individual spiritual development.Save to LibraryDownloadby Martin Egan•  5  Personality Psychology, Spirituality, Coaching and Personal Development, Executive CoachingCovered in stigma? The impact of differing levels of Islamic head-covering on explicit and implicit biases toward Muslim womenGiven the prominence of Muslim veils—in particular the hijab and full-face veil—in public discourse concerning the place of Muslims in Western society, we examined their impact on non-Muslims’ responses at both explicit and implicit... moreGiven the prominence of Muslim veils—in particular the hijab and full-face veil—in public discourse concerning the place of Muslims in Western society, we examined their impact on non-Muslims’ responses at both explicit and implicit levels. Results revealed that responses were more negative toward any veil compared with no veil, and more negative toward the full-face veil relative to the hijab: for emotions felt toward veiled women (Study 1), for non-affective attitudinal responses (Study 2), and for implicit negative attitudes revealed through response latency measures (Studies 3a and 3b). Finally, we manipulated the perceived reasons for wearing a veil, finding that exposure to positive reasons for wearing a veil led to better predicted and imagined contact (Study 4). Practical and theoretical implications are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brian D. Earp•  82  Religion, Comparative Religion, Cultural History, SociologyThe International Dictionary of PsychoanalysisVolume One:  A – F      Volume Two: G – PRVolume Three: PS - ZSave to LibraryDownloadby Ayla Michelle Demir•  21  Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Personality PsychologyApplying Bowen Theory to Ordinary PeopleThe paper applies some of the general principles of Bowenian Therapy to the Jarrett family as depicted in Ordinary People.Save to LibraryDownloadby John Zak•  20  Psychology, Family Therapy, Personality Psychology, Social PsychologyThe Anger Manual to Help Reduce Anger in Society (social change download)People abused by angry discipline as children, may tend to abuse or overly punish other people or themselves for perceived wrongs in their adult life. In some individuals, aggressive personality traits may be genetically inherited. The... morePeople abused by angry discipline as children, may tend to abuse or overly punish other people or themselves for perceived wrongs in their adult life. In some individuals, aggressive personality traits may be genetically inherited. The aggressive personality may feel weakened by having guidelines or boundaries for anger. Anger is a normal human emotion, and these guidelines can help express anger in a healthy way.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Keeran MSW•  172  Industrial And Labor Relations, Organizational Behavior, Management, Cultural StudiesANORMAL PSİKOLOJİSİ/PSİKOPATOLOJİ - Abnormal PsychologyAnormal Psikoloji kitabı, ruhsal bozukluklar alanında çalışan tüm profesyoneller, psikiyatristler, klinik psikologlar, psikologlar, psikolojik danışmanlar, hekimler, sosyal hizmet uzmanları, psikiyatri hemşireleri ve bu alanlarda öğrenci... moreAnormal Psikoloji kitabı, ruhsal bozukluklar alanında çalışan tüm profesyoneller, psikiyatristler, klinik psikologlar, psikologlar, psikolojik danışmanlar, hekimler, sosyal hizmet uzmanları, psikiyatri hemşireleri ve bu alanlarda öğrenci yetiştiren akademisyenler ile eğitim alan öğrenciler için temel bir başvuru kitabıdır. 2013 yılının Mayısı ayında yayımlanan DSM-5 ölçütlerine göre ruhsal bozukluklarla ilgili sunulan bilgilerin güncellemesinin de yapıldığı bu kitap, tüm dünyada pek çok üniversitenin psikiyatri ve psikoloji bölümlerinde ders kitabı olarak okutulmaktadır. Kitabın her bölümünde, ilk olarak ruhsal bozukluklarla ilgili vakalar sunulmakta, daha sonra bozuklukların klinik tanıları yapılmakta ve DSM-IV-TR’den farklı olan DSM-5’te yapılan değişikliklere yer verilmektedir. Ayrıca, DSM-5’teki tanı ölçütleri, bozuklukların etiyolojisi ve epidemiyolojisi, bozukluklar üzerinde kalıtımın ve çevrenin etkileri, biyolojik ve sosyal ve kültürel etkiler, en güncel araştırmalardan elde edilen verilerle harmanlanarak sunulmaktadır. Ruhsal bozuklukların tedavisinde etkili olacak terapi yaklaşımları ve ilaçla yapılan tedaviler hakkında da bilgiler veren kitap, sahip olduğu zengin içeriği ile eşsiz bir kaynaktır.Anormal Psikoloji kitabının; profesyoneller ve öğrenciler için önemli bir rehber olacağına, yardıma ihtiyaç duyan insanların sorunlarının çözümüne, ruhsal bozuklukların tanı ve tedavisinde önemli katkılar sağlayacağına inanıyoruz.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  259  Creative Writing, Entrepreneurship, Management, PsychologyThe attitudes and construing of university students in relation to mental health- on the likelihood and means of accessing professional psychological help.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stephanie Morton•  6  Personality Psychology, Repertory Grids, Mental Health Stigma, Help-SeekingPersonality Psychology Lecture Notes - Introduction to Personality PsychologyLecture Notes of Personality Psychology Course / Ch1-2 Larsen - Buss   Course Book: Larsen, R.J., & Buss, D. M. (2009). Personality Psychology: Domains of Knowledge About Human Nature (4th ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill.Save to LibraryDownloadby Saliha B Selman•  2  Personality Psychology, PersonalityMotschenbacher, Heiko & Roivainen, Eka (2020): “Personality traits, adjectives and gender: Integrating corpus linguistic and psychological approaches.” Journal of Language and Discrimination 4.1: 16–50.There have been linguistic studies on the gendering mechanisms of adjectives and psychological studies on the relationship between personality traits and gender, but the two fields have never entered into a dialogue on these issues. This... moreThere have been linguistic studies on the gendering mechanisms of adjectives and psychological studies on the relationship between personality traits and gender, but the two fields have never entered into a dialogue on these issues. This article seeks to address this gap by presenting an interdisciplinary study that explores the gendering mechanisms associated with personality traits and personality trait-denoting adjectives. The findings of earlier work in this area and basic gendering mechanisms relevant to adjectives and personality traits are outlined. This is followed by a linguistic and a psychological analysis of the usage patterns of a set of personality trait adjectives. The linguistic section draws on corpus linguistics to explore the distribution of these adjectives with female, male and gender-neutral personal nouns in the Corpus of Contemporary American English. The psychological analysis relates the usage frequencies of personality trait adjectives with the nouns man, woman and person in the Google Books corpus to desirability ratings of the adjectives.Save to LibraryDownloadby Heiko  Motschenbacher•  4  Personality Psychology, Language and Gender, Corpus Linguistics, AdjectivesЯК ЖИТТЄВІ ЗАВДАННЯ СПРИЯЮТЬ ОСОБИСТІСНОМУ САМОКОНСТРУЮВАННЮ: СПРОБА ПІСЛЯМОВИ//Наук. студ. із соц. та політ. психол.: зб. статей – К.-2011. – Вип. 29 (32). – 340 с.-С. 199-209.It was developed the concept of personality self-construction in postnonclassycal paradigm and a model of self-realization optimizing. The expediency of future structuring in the form of futurological narrative was justified. Life-task... moreIt was developed the concept of personality self-construction in postnonclassycal paradigm and a model of self-realization optimizing. The expediency of future structuring in the form of futurological narrative was justified. Life-task structuring models were defined and ways of setting goals were analyzed. There were examined spheres of life which determined the ways of life-tasks setting, the diagnostic features of formed tasks, personal characteristics that influence to tasks formulation, criteria for viability, influencing to self-prediction; there were analyzed specific life-tasks of troubled youth and referents of effective-ineffective self-realization.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tetiana  Tytarenko•  5  Personality Psychology, Self and Identity, Quality of life, Narrative and IdentityCircadian Typology, Age, and the Alternative Five-Factor Personality Model in an Adult Women SampleSave to LibraryDownloadby Anna Muro•  3  Personality Psychology, Circadian Rhythms, Personality and Individual DifferencesFredrich W. H. Myers - La personnalité humaine (Fr)La personalité humaine, sa survivance, ses manifestations supranormales.Fredrich W. H. Myers (1843-1901)Save to LibraryDownloadby reinaldo pedreira•Personality PsychologyContributions of stimulus valence and arousal to visual activation during emotional perceptionSave to LibraryDownloadby Leticia Oliveira•  13  Personality Psychology, Visual perception, Emotions, Visual CortexWho is Pulling the StringsBaumert and colleagues argued that research on between-and within-individual differences and expression of personality processes in context should be integrated. We applaud this effort and their focus on developmental processes but felt... moreBaumert and colleagues argued that research on between-and within-individual differences and expression of personality processes in context should be integrated. We applaud this effort and their focus on developmental processes but felt that their descriptions remained too unspecific. This comment highlights six issues that may contribute to a fruitful debate of future personality research: (a) induction time, (b) co-development of disorder states, (c) theory testing, (d) non-ergodicity and inferences at the within-individual level, (e) development as a complex dynamic system and (f) integration of literatures from neighboring scientific disciplines.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bertus F Jeronimus•  5  Psychology, Personality Psychology, Personality, Dynamic Systems TheoryWise “birds” follow their clock: The role of emotional intelligence and morningness–eveningness in diurnal regulation of moodEmotional intelligence (EI) and morningness-eveningness (M-E) preference have been shown to influence mood states. The present article investigates the way in which these two constructs may interact, influencing morning and evening mood... moreEmotional intelligence (EI) and morningness-eveningness (M-E) preference have been shown to influence mood states. The present article investigates the way in which these two constructs may interact, influencing morning and evening mood levels. A sample of 172 participants completed a multidimensional mood scale measuring energetic arousal (EA), tense arousal (TA), and hedonic tone at 7:00 and at 22:00. As expected, morning and evening types experienced higher EA at their preferred time of day; effects of M-E on other mood dimensions were weaker. EI was found to correlate with lower TA, but the association was stronger at 22:00, perhaps reflecting the role of EI in managing the social events characteristic for the evening hours. An interactive effect of EI and M-E was found for both diurnal changes and morning levels of EA. Namely, in individuals higher in EI, there appeared a more marked synchrony effect between chronotype and EA, which was absent in those low in EI; individuals higher in EI showed more pronounced diurnal changes in EA characteristic for their chronotype (i.e., higher EA at morning hours in morning chronotypes; higher EA at evening hours in evening chronotypes), while in participants low in EI, diurnal changes in EA were smaller. Moreover, the characteristic positive association between morningness and EA during morning hours was apparent only in those high in EI. These findings suggest that individual differences in circadian variation in mood reflect several factors, including an endogenous rhythm in energy, the distribution of social activities throughout the day, and the person&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;#39;s awareness of their own energy level.Save to Libraryby Konrad S Jankowski•  20  Chronobiology, Psychology, Personality Psychology, EmotionThe MBTI® Test and Making Decisions in CollegeKnowing that our MBTI test personality type results will see us through college and well beyond, we can now step into the world of the eight letters of MBTI Type and what MBTI Types and pairs correlate to what specific areas of studies,... moreKnowing that our MBTI test personality type results will see us through college and well beyond, we can now step into the world of the eight letters of MBTI Type and what MBTI Types and pairs correlate to what specific areas of studies, and eventually majors. An MBTI “pair” refers to taking half or two letters out of your 4-letter MBTI Type and studying them uniquely from your entire Type. This manner of study has been met with great success and validity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jonathan Bollag•  12  Personality Psychology, Personality, MBTI, Personality AssessmentThe Five Dimensions of PersonalitySave to LibraryDownloadby Theresa  Lowry Lehnen•Personality PsychologyPETER SLOTERDIJK: NORMAS Y DISTURBIOS EN EL PARQUE HUMANO O LA CRISIS DEL HUMANISMO COMO UTOPÍA Y ESCUELA DE DOMESTICACIÓNSe indaga el sentido de la conferencia de Sloterdijk “Normas para el Parque humano” así como las polémicas por ella suscitada. Se realiza un diagnóstico de la capacidad crítica del humanismo tradicional. En el marco del naufragio del... moreSe indaga el sentido de la conferencia de Sloterdijk“Normas para el Parque humano” así como laspolémicas por ella suscitada. Se realiza un diagnósticode la capacidad crítica del humanismo tradicional. En elmarco del naufragio del humanismo como escuela yutopía domesticadora humana -marco en el queSloterdijk reclama una revisión genético-técnica de lahumanidad- se indaga ¿qué criterios puedenestablecerse para normar las inevitables luchas por losderechos de la crianza humana? ¿Quiénes y sobre québases debieran hoy detentar el derecho a la crianza?¿Cómo determinar quiénes son los que educan y los queson educados? Se proponen nuevos caminos quetienen en la mediación de la técnica su formulacióndiscursiva y sus orígenes en las disidencias que, desdela propia tradición filosófica, reducían la estancia delhombre en el mundo a su expresión leída y escrita.Save to LibraryDownloadby Adolfo Vasquez Rocca•  112  Critical Theory, Sociology, Cultural Studies, Social MovementsПроблема эскапизма: междисциплинарный анализ теоретических подходов и пути исследования в психологииПроведен анализ теоретических подходов к проблеме эскапизма в философии, социальных науках, литературоведении, классической и современной психологии. Выделены основные тенденции в изучении ухода от реальности: нейтральная (философский... moreПроведен анализ теоретических подходов к проблеме эскапизма в философии, социальных науках, литературоведении, классической и современной психологии. Выделены основные тенденции в изучении ухода от реальности: нейтральная (философский подход), негативная (социологический подход), позитивная (литературоведение), амбивалентная (классическая отечественная психология). Обосновывается необходимость изучения эскапизма в рамках интегративного подхода, синтезирующего его позитивную и деструктивную функции.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oksana Teslavskaia (Olkina)•  5  Personality Psychology, Escapism, психология личности, методология исследования в психологииMeasurement invariance between a traditional and a web-based application of the German Anxiety Sensitivity Index Anxiety Sensitivity Index-3 and its …Web-based psychometric research using adaptations of paper-and-pencil personality/psychopathology measures is on the rise. Although web-based versions may be reliable and valid, they may not necessarily measure the same constructs as... moreWeb-based psychometric research using adaptations of paper-and-pencil personality/psychopathology measures is on the rise. Although web-based versions may be reliable and valid, they may not necessarily measure the same constructs as their traditional antecedents. Measurement invariance is rarely tested. Within a confirmatory factor-analytic framework, measurement invariance of traditional and web-based versions of the Anxiety Sensitivity Index–3 (ASI-3) was evaluated and fully confirmed (N=3360). Reliability/Validity coefficients are reported. The ASI-3 displayed sound psychometric properties irrespective of its mode of application. Theoretical and practical implications will be discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christoph J. Kemper•  3  Personality Psychology, Personality, Personality AssessmentPerfectionism and burnout in junior athletes: A three-month longitudinal study [2015]Perfectionism in sports has been shown to be associated with burnout in athletes. Whether perfectionism predicts longitudinal changes in athlete burnout, however, is still unclear. Using a two-wave cross-lagged panel design, the present... morePerfectionism in sports has been shown to be associated with burnout in athletes. Whether perfectionism predicts longitudinal changes in athlete burnout, however, is still unclear. Using a two-wave cross-lagged panel design, the present study examined perfectionistic strivings, perfectionistic concerns, and athlete burnout in 101 junior athletes (mean age 17.7 years) over 3 months of active training. When structural equation modeling was employed to test a series of competing models, the best-fitting model showed opposite patterns for perfectionistic strivings and perfectionistic concerns. Whereas perfectionistic concerns predicted increases in athlete burnout over the 3 months, perfectionistic strivings predicted decreases. The present findings suggest that perfectionistic concerns are a risk factor for junior athletes contributing to the development of athlete burnout whereas perfectionistic strivings appear to be a protective factor.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joachim Stoeber•  38  Sociology of Sport, Psychology, Personality Psychology, Social PsychologyCase Study Using Erikson's Developmental StagesIn analyzing R’s life, Erik Erikson’s epigenetic psychological theory seemed to be the most appropriate to detail R’s life cycle from her infancy to adulthood. According toErikson, the psychological growth of any individual is similar to... moreIn analyzing R’s life, Erik Erikson’s epigenetic psychological theory seemed to be the most appropriate to detail R’s life cycle from her infancy to adulthood. According toErikson, the psychological growth of any individual is similar to that of the growth process of an embryo. In the simplest terms, an embryo is an organism (e.g. a human being) in its earliest stages of development. In this stage, the organism is unrecognizable until a period of time passes by, and throughout that time period, each stage of its development is dependent on the previous stage.Save to Libraryby Delante Lee Bess•  4  Personality Psychology, Social Psychology, Developmental Psychology, Erik EriksonOpenness to Experience, Agreeableness, and Gay Male Intimate Partner Preference Across Racial LinesSave to LibraryDownloadby Sean Boileau•  3  Personality Psychology, Social Psychology, AgreeablenessStrong Interest Inventory ® Test General Occupational Themes (GOTs)There are six Strong Interest Inventory test General Occupational Themes (GOT’s), and these Themes play a precise and significant role in differentiating and interpreting Strong Interest Inventory results and scores. General Occupational... moreThere are six Strong Interest Inventory test General Occupational Themes (GOT’s), and these Themes play a precise and significant role in differentiating and interpreting Strong Interest Inventory results and scores. General Occupational Themes consist of six categoriesSave to LibraryDownloadby Jonathan Bollag•  19  Psychology, Personality Psychology, Personality, Career Guidance CounselingSELF.pptxSave to LibraryDownloadby Nurfitriany Fakhri•  4  Psychology, Personality Psychology, Social Psychology, Self and IdentityPerfectionism and negative affect after repeated failure: Anxiety, depression, and anger [2014]Perfectionists have shown increased negative affect after failure compared to nonperfectionists. However, little is known about how perfectionists react to repeated failure. This study investigated the effects of two forms of... morePerfectionists have shown increased negative affect after failure compared to nonperfectionists. However, little is known about how perfectionists react to repeated failure. This study investigated the effects of two forms of perfectionism—self-oriented perfectionism and socially prescribed perfectionism—on 100 university students’ reactions to repeated failure (versus repeated success) examining three negative emotions: anxiety, depression, and anger. Results showed that socially prescribed perfectionism predicted increased anxiety, depression, and anger after initial failure and further increased anger after repeated failure. In contrast, self-oriented perfectionism predicted increased anxiety, but only after repeated failure. The findings suggest that both self-oriented and socially prescribed perfectionism are vulnerability factors predisposing individuals to react with increased negative affect after repeated failure.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joachim Stoeber•  42  Psychology, Abnormal Psychology, Behavioural Science, Clinical PsychologyMeasurement, Prediction and Development of Behaviour, Ability & Global Aspects of
Work EffectivenessThis presentation documents psychometric characteristics of the Saville Performance 360 including correlations with Wave Professional Styles and Swift.  Authors:Rainer Kurz, Rab MacIver & Peter SavilleSave to LibraryDownloadby Rainer Kurz•  5  Psychological Assessment, Personality Psychology, Test Validation, Aptitude TestingBrand Your Employees, Not Your OrganizationThe workforce and workplace of the future will be geared to building personal brands. Communicators need newer skills for the future, ability to leverage talent, learn to let go, step up our ownership. Tap the power of our employees to... moreThe workforce and workplace of the future will be geared to building personal brands. Communicators need newer skills for the future, ability to leverage talent, learn to let go, step up our ownership. Tap the power of our employees to build the organization’s brand from within. Investing in branding your employees will have a significantly higher value for the business than focusing on the employer brand. The organization will become an amalgamation of brands. Tap the power of our employees to build the organization’s brand from within. Investing in branding your employees will have a significantly higher value for the business than focusing on the employer brand. Read more here: https://intraskope.wordpress.com/2015/02/11/brand-your-employees-not-your-organization/Save to LibraryDownloadby Aniisu K Verghese•  7  Personality Psychology, Normative Ethics, Self and Identity, Internal CommunicationДорожня карта соціально-психологічної реабілітації особистості, що постраждала від воєнної травматизаціїВизначено особливості соціально-психологічної реабілітації як активації здатності особистості, що постраждала від воєнної травматизації, до життєтворення; розглянуто етапи процесу реабілітації та технології, які доцільно використовувати... moreВизначено особливості соціально-психологічної реабілітації як активації здатності особистості, що постраждала від воєнної травматизації, до життєтворення; розглянуто етапи процесу реабілітації та технології, які доцільно використовувати на кожному з них. Показано, що реабілітаційні впливи розгортаються у 4-векторній – персонально-інструментально-просторово-часовій площині, в межах якої всі чотири напрями реабілітації мають взаємопідсилювальний вплив. Розглянуто ресурси, що забезпечують підтримку і оновлення психологічного здоров’я. Визначено найважливіші аспекти реабілітації в умовах масивної та пролонгованої травматизації, які досліджуються співторобітниками лабораторії соціальної психології особистості Інституту соціальної та політичної психології.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tetiana  Tytarenko•  7  Personality Psychology, Rehabilitation, Mental Health, Quality of lifeWhat Forms of Gratitude Expression are Most Appreciated? Applications for Christian LeadersBoth the emotion of gratitude and the expression of gratitude produce benefits for the person who is thankful and the person being thanked. This study explores the degree to which various forms of gratitude expression are appreciated by... moreBoth the emotion of gratitude and the expression of gratitude produce benefits for the person who is thankful and the person being thanked. This study explores the degree to which various forms of gratitude expression are appreciated by those being thanked. In a survey-based study (N = 361), costly, private expressions of gratitude were more appreciated by people being thanked than less costly, public expressions. Higher levels of the HEXACO personality traits of Conscientiousness and Emotionality increased the degree to which people appreciated being thanked. Lower Honesty-Humility (e.g., narcissism) predicted a greater appreciation of receiving public expressions of gratitude while higher Honesty-Humility predicted a greater appreciation of receiving private expressions of gratitude. This information can be used by Christian leaders to help equip others for ministry.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peggy Lanum•  20  Christianity, Personality Psychology, Practical theology, LeadershipNextLast »Related TopicsClinical PsychologyFollowFollowingPsychologyFollowFollowingSocial PsychologyFollowFollowingDevelopmental PsychologyFollowFollowingPersonalityFollowFollowingPositive PsychologyFollowFollowingPsychotherapyFollowFollowingAbnormal PsychologyFollowFollowingPersonality DisordersFollowFollowingCognitive PsychologyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023