Understanding Success Criterion  1.4.11: Non-text Contrast | WAI | W3C
Skip to content
WCAG 2.2 Understanding Docs
Informative explanations, not required to meet WCAGAbout WCAG Understanding Docs
                        All Understanding Docs
                        
 Guideline: Distinguishable
Previous SC: Reflow
Next SC: Text Spacing
Page Contents
In brief
Intent
Benefits
Examples
Related Resources
Techniques
Key Terms
Understanding 
                  SC 1.4.11:Non-text Contrast (Level AA)
Success Criterion (SC) 
The visual presentation of the following have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 against adjacent color(s):
User Interface Components
Visual information required to identify user interface components and states, except for inactive components or where the appearance of the component is determined
                        by the user agent and not modified by the author;
Graphical Objects
Parts of graphics required to understand the content, except when a particular presentation
                        of graphics is essential to the information being conveyed.
In brief
Objective
Important visual information meets the same minimum contrast required for larger text
Author task
Ensure meaningful visual cues achieve 3:1 against the background
Intent
The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that active user interface components
                  (i.e., controls) and meaningful graphics are distinguishable by people with moderately
                  low vision. The requirements and rationale are similar to those for large text in
                  1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum).
Low contrast controls are more difficult to perceive, and may be completely missed
                  by people with a visual impairment. Similarly, if a graphic is needed to understand
                  the content or functionality of the webpage then it should be perceivable by people
                  with low vision or other impairments without the need for contrast-enhancing assistive
                  technology.
Note
The 3:1 contrast ratios referenced in this Success Criterion is intended to be treated
                        as threshold values. When comparing the computed contrast ratio to the Success Criterion
                        ratio, the computed values should not be rounded (e.g. 2.999:1 would not meet the
                        3:1 threshold).
Active User Interface Components
For active controls any visual information provided that is necessary for a user to
                     identify that a control is present and how to operate it must have a minimum 3:1 contrast
                     ratio with the adjacent colors. Also, any visual information necessary to indicate
                     state, such as whether a component is selected or focused must also ensure that the
                     information used to identify the control in that state has a minimum 3:1 contrast
                     ratio.
This Success Criterion does not require that changes in color that differentiate between
                     states of an individual component meet the 3:1 contrast ratio when they do not appear
                     next to each other. For example, there is not a new requirement that visited links
                     contrast with the default color, or that mouse hover indicators contrast with the
                     default state. However, the component must not lose contrast with the adjacent colors,
                     and non-text indicators such as the check in a checkbox, or an arrow graphic indicating
                     a menu is selected or open must have sufficient contrast to the adjacent colors.
Boundaries
This success criterion does not require that controls have a visual boundary indicating
                     the hit area, but if the visual indicator of the control is the only way to identify
                     the control, then that indicator must have sufficient contrast. If text (or an icon)
                     within a button or placeholder text inside a text input is visible and there is no
                     visual indication of the hit area then the Success Criterion is passed. If a button
                     with text also has a colored border, since the border does not provide the only indication
                     there is no contrast requirement beyond the text contrast (1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)). Note that for people with cognitive disabilities it is recommended to delineate
                     the boundary of controls to aid in the recognition of controls and therefore the completion
                     of activities.
Figure 1 A button (active control) without a visual boundary, and the same button with a focus
                        indicator that is a defined visual boundary of grey (#949494) adjacent to white.
Adjacent colors
For user interface components 'adjacent colors' means the colors adjacent to the component.
                     For example, if an input has a white internal background, dark border, and white external
                     background the 'adjacent color' to the component would be the white external background.
Figure 2 A standard text input with a grey border (#767676) and white adjacent color outside
                        the component
If components use several colors, any color which does not interfere with identifying
                     the component can be ignored for the purpose of measuring contrast ratio. For example,
                     a 3D drop-shadow on an input, or a dark border line between contrasting backgrounds
                     is considered to be subsumed into the color closest in brightness (perceived luminance).
The following example shows an input that has a light background on the inside and
                     a dark background around it. The input also has a dark grey border which is considered
                     to be subsumed into the dark background. The border does not interfere with identifying
                     the component, so the contrast ratio is taken between the white background and dark
                     blue background.
Figure 3  The contrast of the input background (white) and color adjacent to the control (dark
                        blue #003366) is sufficient. There is also a border (silver) on the component that
                        is not required to contrast with either.
For visual information required to identify a state, such as the check in a checkbox
                     or the thumb of a slider, that part might be within the component so the adjacent
                     color might be another part of the component.
Figure 4  A customized checkbox with light grey check (#E5E5E5), which has a contrast ratio
                        of 5.6:1 with the purple box (#6221EA).
It is possible to use a flat design where the status indicator fills the component
                     and does not contrast with the component, but does contrast with the colors adjacent
                     to the component.
Figure 5 The first radio button shows the default state with a grey (#949494) circle. The second
                        and third show the radio button selected and filled with a color that contrasts with
                        the color adjacent to the component. The last example shows the state indicator contrasting
                        with the component colors.
Relationship with Use of Color
The Use of Color success criterion addresses changing only the color (hue) of an object or text without otherwise altering the object's form. The principle
                     is that contrast ratio (the difference in brightness) can be used to distinguish text
                     or graphics. For example, G183: Using a contrast ratio of 3:1 with surrounding text and providing additional visual
                        cues on hover for links or controls where color alone is used to identify them is a technique to use a contrast ratio of 3:1 with surrounding text to distinguish
                     links and controls. In that case the Working Group regards a link color that meets
                     the 3:1 contrast ratio relative to the non-linked text color as satisfying the Success
                     Criterion 1.4.1 Use of color since it is relying on contrast ratio as well as color (hue) to convey that the text
                     is a link.
Non-text information within controls that uses a change of hue alone to convey the
                     value or state of an input, such as a 1-5 star indicator with a black outline for
                     each star filled with either yellow (full) or white (empty) is likely to fail the
                     Use of color criterion rather than this one.
Figure 6 
                        Two examples which pass this success criterion, using either a solid fill to
                        indicate a checked-state that has contrast, or a thicker border as well as yellow
                        fill.
                        
Figure 7 
                        Two examples which fail a success criterion, the first fails the Use of color
                        criterion due to relying on yellow and white hues. The second example fails the Non-text
                        contrast criterion due to the yellow (#FFF000) to white contrast ratio of 1.2:1.
                        
Using a change of contrast for focus and other states is a technique to differentiate
                     the states. This is the basis for G195: Using an author-supplied, visible focus indicator, and more techniques are being added.
Relationship with Focus Visible
In combination with 2.4.7 Focus Visible, the visual focus indicator for a component must have sufficient contrast against the adjacent background when the component is focused,
                     except where the appearance of the component is determined by the user agent and not
                     modified by the author.
Most focus indicators appear outside the component - in that case it needs to contrast
                     with the background that the component is on. Other cases include focus indicators
                     which are:
only inside the component and need to contrast with the adjacent color(s) within the
                        component.
the border of the component (inside the component and adjacent to the outside) and
                        need to contrast with both adjacent colours. 
partly inside and partly outside, where either part of the focus indicator can contrast
                        with the adjacent colors.
Figure 8 
                        The internal yellow indicator (#FFFF00) contrasts with the blue button background
                        (#4189B9), passing the criterion.
                        
Figure 9 
                        The external yellow indicator (#FFFF00) does not contrast with the white background
                        (#FFF) which the component is on, failing the criterion.
                        
Figure 10 
                        The external green indicator (#008000) does contrast with the white background
                        (#FFF) which the component is on, passing the criterion. It does not need to contrast with both the component background and
                        the component.
                        
Although the figure above with a dark outline passes non-text contrast, it is not
                     a good indicator unless it is very thick.  New in WCAG 22: There is a criterion in WCAG 2.2 that addresses this aspect, Focus Appearance.
If an indicator is partly inside and partly outside the component, either part of
                     the indicator could provide contrast.
Figure 11 
                        The focus indicator is partially inside, partially outside the button. The internal
                        part of the yellow indicator (#FFFF00) contrasts with the blue button background (#4189B9),
                        passing the criterion.
                        
If the focus indicator changes the border of the component within the visible boundary
                     it must contrast with the component. Typically an outline goes around (outside) the
                     visible boundary of the component, in this case changing the border is just inside
                     the visible edge of the component.
Figure 12 
                        The border of the control changes from blue (#4189B9) to green (#4B933A). This
                        is within the component and does not contrast with the inside background of the component
                        therefore fails non-text contrast.
                        
Figure 13 
                        An inner border of dark green (#008000) does contrast with the black border,
                        but does not contrast with the blue component background, therefore fails non-text contrast.
                        
Figure 14 
                        An inner border of white contrasts with the black border and the blue component
                        background, therefore passes non-text contrast.
                        
Note that this Success Criterion does not directly compare the focused and unfocused
                     states of a control - if the focus state relies on a change of color (e.g., changing
                     only the background color of a button), this Success Criterion does not define any requirement
                     for the difference in contrast between the two states.
Figure 15 
                        The change of background within the component is not in scope of non-text contrast.
                        However, this would not pass Use of color.
                        
Active User Interface Component Examples
For designing focus indicators, selection indicators and user interface components
                        that need to be perceived clearly, the following are examples that have sufficient
                        contrast.
                           Active User Interface Component Examples
                           
Type
Description
Examples
Link Text
Default link text is in the scope of 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum), and the underline is sufficient to indicate the link.
Default focus style
Links are required to have a visible focus indicator by 2.4.7 Focus Visible. Where the focus style of the user-agent is not adjusted on interactive controls
                              (such as links, form fields or buttons) by the website (author), the default focus
                              style is exempt from contrast requirements (but must still be visible).
Buttons
A button which has a distinguishing indicator such as position, text style, or context
                              does not need a contrasting visual indicator to show that it is a button, although some users are likely to identify
                              a button with an outline that meets contrast requirements more easily.
Text input (minimal)
Where a text-input has a visual indicator to show it is an input, such as a bottom
                              border (#767676), that indicator must meet 3:1 contrast ratio.
Text input
Where a text-input has an indicator such as a complete border (#767676), that indicator
                              must meet 3:1 contrast ratio.
Text input focus style
A focus indicator is required. While in this case the additional gray (#CCC) outline
                              has an insufficient contrast of 1.6:1 against the white (#FFF) background, the cursor/caret
                              which is displayed when the input receives focus does provide a sufficiently strong visual indication.
Text input using background color
Text inputs that have no border and are differentiated only by a background color
                              must have a 3:1 contrast ratio to the adjacent background (#043464).
Toggle button
The toggle button's internal background (#070CD5) has a good contrast with the external
                              white background. Also, the round toggle within (#7AC2FF) contrasts with the internal
                              background.
Dropdown indicator
The down-arrow is required to understand that there is drop-down functionality, it
                              has a contrast of 4.7:1 for the white icon on dark gray (#6E747B).
Dropdown indicator
The down-arrow is required to understand that there is drop-down functionality, it
                              has a contrast of 21:1 for the black icon on white.
Checkbox - empty
A black border on a white background indicates the checkbox.
Checkbox - checked
A black border on a white background indicates the checkbox, the black tick shape
                              indicates the state of checked.
Checkbox - Fail
The grey border color of the checkbox (#9D9D9D) has a contrast ratio of 2.7:1 with
                              the white background, which is not sufficient for the visual information required
                              to identify the checkbox.
Checkbox - Subtle hover style
A black border on a white background indicates the checkbox, when the mouse pointer
                              activates the subtle hover state adds a grey background (#DEDEDE). The black border
                              has a 15:1 contrast ratio with the grey background.
Checkbox - Subtle focus style - fail
A focus indicator is required. If the focus indicator is styled by the author, it
                              must meet the 3:1 contrast ratio with adjacent colors. In this case, the gray (#AAA)
                              indicator has an insufficient ratio of 2.3:1 with the white (#FFF) adjacent background.
Inactive User Interface Components
User Interface Components that are not available for user interaction (e.g., a disabled
                        control in HTML) are not required to meet contrast requirements. An inactive user
                        interface component is visible but not currently operable. An example would be a submit
                        button at the bottom of a form that is visible but cannot be activated until all the
                        required fields in the form are completed.
Figure 16  An inactive button using default browser styles
Inactive components, such as disabled controls in HTML, are not available for user
                        interaction. The decision to exempt inactive controls from the contrast requirements
                        was based on a number of considerations. Although it would be beneficial to some people
                        to discern inactive controls, a one-size-fits-all solution has been very difficult
                        to establish. A method of varying the presentation of disabled controls, such as adding
                        an icon for disabled controls, based on user preferences is anticipated as an advancement
                        in the future.
Graphical Objects
The term "graphical object" applies to stand-alone icons such as a print icon (with
                     no text), and the important parts of a more complex diagram such as each line in a
                     graph. For simple graphics such as single-color icons the entire image is a graphical
                     object. Images made up of multiple lines, colors and shapes will be made of multiple
                     graphical objects, some of which are required for understanding.
Not every graphical object needs to contrast with its surroundings - only those that
                     are required for a user to understand what the graphic is conveying. Gestalt principles such as the "law of continuity" can be used to ignore minor overlaps with other graphical
                     objects or colors.
Image
Notes
The phone icon is a simple shape within the orange (#E3660E) circle. The meaning can
                                 be understood from that icon alone, the background behind the circle is irrelevant.
                                 The orange background and the white icon have a contrast ration greater than 3:1,
                                 which passes.
The graphical object is the white phone icon.
A magnet can be understood by the "U" shape with lighter colored tips. Therefore to
                                 understand this graphic you should be able to discern the overall shape (against the
                                 background) and the lighter colored tips (against the rest of the U shape and the
                                 background).
The graphical objects are the "U" shape (by outline or by the solid red color #D0021B),
                                 and each tip of the magnet.
The symbol to show a currency (the £) going down can be understood with recognition
                                 of the shape (down arrow) and the currency symbol (pound icon with the shape which
                                 is part of the graphic). To understand this graphic you need to discern the arrow
                                 shape against the white background, and the pound icon against the yellow background
                                 (#F5A623).
The graphical objects are the shape and the currency symbol.
In order to understand the graph you need to discern the lines and shapes for each
                                 condition. To perceive the values of each line along the chart you need to discern
                                 the grey lines marking the graduated 100 value increments.
The graphical objects are the lines in the graph, including the background lines for
                                 the values, and the colored lines with shapes.
The lines should have 3:1 contrast against their background, but as there is little
                                 overlap with other lines they do not need to contrast with each other or the graduated
                                 lines. (See the testing principles below.)
To understand the pie chart you have to discern each slice of the pie chart from the
                                 others.
The graphical objects are the slices of the pie (chart).
Note: If the values of the pie chart slices were also presented in a conforming manner
                                 (see the Pie Charts example for details), the slices would not be required for understanding.
Taking the magnet image above as an example, the process for establishing the graphical
                     object(s) is to:
Assess what part of each image is needed to understand what it represents.
                        The magnet's "U" shape can be conveyed by the outline or by the red background
                        (either is acceptable). The white tips are also important (otherwise it would be a
                        horseshoe), which needs to contrast with the red background.
Assume that the user could only see those aspects. Do they contrast with the adjacent
                        colors?
                        The outline of the magnet contrasts with the surrounding text (black/white),
                        and the red and white between the tips also has sufficient contrast.
Due to the strong contrast of the red and white, it would also be possible to only
                     put the outline around the white tips of the magnet and it would still conform.
Required for Understanding
The term "required for understanding" is used in the Success Criterion as many graphics
                        do not need to meet the contrast requirements. If a person needs to perceive a graphic,
                        or part of a graphic (a graphical object) in order to understand the content it should
                        have sufficient contrast. However, that is not a requirement when:
A graphic with text embedded or overlayed conveys the same information, such as labels
                              and values on a chart.
Note
Text within a graphic must meet 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum).
 The graphic is for aesthetic purposes that does not require the user to see or understand
                           it to understand the content or use the functionality.
 The information is available in another form, such as in a table that follows the
                           graph, which becomes visible when a "Long Description" button is pressed.
 The graphic is part of a logo or brand name (which is considered "essential" to its
                           presentation).
Gradients
Gradients can reduce the apparent contrast between areas, and make it more difficult
                        to test. The general principles is to identify the graphical object(s) required for
                        understanding, and take the central color of that area. If you remove the adjacent
                        color which does not have sufficient contrast, can you still identify and understand
                        the graphical object?
Figure 17 Removing the background which does not have sufficient contrast highlights that the
                           graphical object (the "i") is not then understandable.
Dynamic Examples
Some graphics may have interactions that either vary the contrast, or display the
                        information as text when you mouseover/tap/focus each graphical object. In order for
                        someone to discern the graphics exist at all, the unfocused default version must already
                        have sufficiently contrasting colors or text. For the area that receives focus, information
                        can then be made available dynamically as pop-up text, or be foregrounded dynamically
                        by increasing the contrast.
Figure 18 A dynamic chart where the current 'slice' is hovered or focused, which activates the
                           associated text display of the values and highlights the series
Infographics
Infographics can mean any graphic conveying data, such as a chart or diagram. On the
                        web it is often used to indicate a large graphic with lots of statements, pictures,
                        charts or other ways of conveying data. In the context of graphics contrast, each
                        item within such an infographic should be treated as a set of graphical objects, regardless
                        of whether it is in one file or separate files.
Infographics often fail to meet several WCAG level AA criteria including:
1.1.1 Non-text Content
1.4.1 Use of Color
1.4.3 (Text) Contrast
1.4.5 Images of Text
An infographic can use text which meets the other criteria to minimise the number
                        of graphical objects required for understanding. For example, using text with sufficient
                        contrast to provide the values in a chart. A long description would also be sufficient
                        because then the infograph is not relied upon for understanding.
Essential Exception
Graphical objects do not have to meet the contrast requirements when "a particular
                        presentation of graphics is essential to the information being conveyed". The Essential
                        exception is intended to apply when there is no way of presenting the graphic with
                        sufficient contrast without undermining the meaning. For example:
Logotypes and flags: The brand logo of an organization or product is the representation of that organization
                           and therefore exempt. Flags may not be identifiable if the colors are changed to have
                           sufficient contrast.
Sensory: There is no requirement to change pictures of real life scenes such as photos of
                           people or scenery.
Representing other things: If you cannot represent the graphic in any other way, it is essential. Examples
                           include: 
                           
                           
Screenshots to demonstrate how a website appeared.
Diagrams of medical information that use the colors found in biology (example medical schematic from Wikipedia).
color gradients that represent a measurement, such as heat maps (example heatmap from Wikipedia).
Testing Principles
A summary of the high-level process for finding and assessing non-text graphics on
                        a web page:
Identify each user-interface component (link, button, form control) on the page and:
                           
                           
Identify the visual (non-text) indicators of the component that are required to identify
                                 that a control exists, and indicate the current state. In the default (on page load)
                                 state, test the contrast ratio against the adjacent colors.
Test those contrast indicators in each state.
Identify each graphic on the page that includes information required for understanding
                           the content (i.e. excluding graphics which have visible text for the same information,
                           or are decorative) and:
                           
                           
Check the contrast of the graphical object against its adjacent colors;
If there are multiple colors and/or a gradient, choose the least contrasting area
                                 to test;
If it passes, move to the next graphical object;
If the least-contrasting area is less than 3:1, assume that area is invisible, is
                                 the graphical object still understandable?
If there is enough of the graphical object to understand, it passes, else fail.
The techniques below each have testing criteria, and the related criteria for Focus visible (2.4.7), Use of color (1.4.1), and Contrast minimum also have techniques.
Benefits
People with low vision often have difficulty perceiving graphics that have insufficient
                  contrast. This can be exacerbated if the person has a color vision deficiency that
                  lowers the contrast even further. Providing a relative luminance (lightness difference) of 3:1 or greater can make these items more distinguishable
                  when the person does not see a full range of colors.
Examples
Status icons on an application's dashboard (without associated text) have a 3:1 minimum
                     contrast ratio.
A text input has a dark border around the white editable area.
A graph uses a light background and ensures that the colors for each line have a 3:1
                     contrast ratio against the background.
Pie Charts
Pie charts make a good case study for the graphical objects part of this success criterion,
                     the following pie charts are intended to convey the proportion of market share each
                     browser has. Please Note: The actual figures are made up, these are not actual market
                     shares. 
Figure 19 
                        
                        Fail: The pie chart has labels for each slice (so passes 1.4.1 Use of Color), but in order
                           to understand the proportions of the slices you must discern the edges of the slices
                           (the graphical objects conveying essential information), and the contrast between
                           the slices is not  3:1 or greater. 
Figure 20 
                        
                        Not applicable: The pie chart has visible labels and values that convey equivalent information to the graphical objects (the pie slices).
                           
Figure 21 
                        
                        Pass: The pie chart has visible labels, and sufficient contrast around and between the
                           slices of the pie chart (the graphical objects). A darker border has been added around
                           the yellow slice in order to achieve the contrast level.
Infographics
Figure 22 
                        
                        Fail: Discerning the circles is required to understand the size of network and discerning
                           the icons in each circle is required to identify which network it shows.
The graphical objects are the circles (measured against the background) and the icons
                     in each circle (measured against the circle's background).
Figure 23 
                        
                        Pass: The circles have contrasting borders and the icons are a contrasting dark color against
                           the light circle backgrounds.
There are many possible solutions to ensuring contrast, the example shows the use
                     of borders. Other techniques are to use darker colors for the circle backgrounds,
                     or to add text labels & values for each item.
Related Resources
Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.
Accessibility Requirements for People with Low Vision.
Smith Kettlewell Eye Research Institute -  "If the text is better understood with the graphics, they should be equally visible
                     as the text".
Gordon Legge - "Contrast requirements for form controls should be equivalent to contrast requirements
                     for text".
Techniques
Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination of techniques
                  that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting this Success Criterion. However,
                  it is not necessary to use these particular techniques. For information on using other
                  techniques, see Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria, particularly the "Other Techniques" section.
Sufficient Techniques
Select the situation below that matches your content. Each situation includes techniques
                     or combinations of techniques that are known and documented to be sufficient for that
                     situation. 
Situation A: Color is used to identify user interface components or used to identify
                        user interface component states
G195: Using an author-supplied, visible focus indicator
G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that allows users to switch to
                              a presentation that uses sufficient contrast
Situation B: Color is required to understand graphical content
G207: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of 3:1 is provided for icons
G209: Provide sufficient contrast at the boundaries between adjoining colors
Failures
The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of this Success Criterion
                     by the WCAG Working Group.
F78: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.7 due to styling element outlines and borders in
                           a way that removes or renders non-visible the visual focus indicator
Key Terms
assistive technology
hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent, or along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet the requirements
                           of users with disabilities that go beyond those offered by mainstream user agents
                           
Note
Functionality provided by assistive technology includes alternative presentations
                              (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified content), alternative input methods (e.g.,
                              voice), additional navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
                              (e.g., to make tables more accessible).
                              
Note
Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages with mainstream user agents
                              by using and monitoring APIs.
                              
Note
The distinction between mainstream user agents and assistive technologies is not absolute.
                              Many mainstream user agents provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities.
                              The basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and diverse audiences
                              that usually include people with and without disabilities. Assistive technologies
                              target narrowly defined populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
                              provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate to the needs
                              of its target users. The mainstream user agent may provide important functionality
                              to assistive technologies like retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing
                              markup into identifiable bundles.
                              
Assistive technologies that are important in the context of this document include
                              the following:
                              
screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which are used by people with
                                 visual, perceptual and physical print disabilities to change text font, size, spacing,
                                 color, synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual readability
                                 of rendered text and images;
                                 
screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read textual information
                                 through synthesized speech or braille;
                                 
text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with cognitive, language, and
                                 learning disabilities to convert text into synthetic speech;
                                 
speech recognition software, which may be used by people who have some physical disabilities;
alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities
                                 to simulate the keyboard (including alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single
                                 switches, sip/puff and other special input devices.);
                                 
alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities
                                 to simulate mouse pointing and button activations.
                                 
content
information and sensory experience to be communicated to the user by means of a user agent, including code or markup that defines the content's structure, presentation, and interactions
                           
contrast ratio
(L1 + 0.05) / (L2 + 0.05), where
L1 is the relative luminance of the lighter of the colors, and
                              
L2 is the relative luminance of the darker of the colors.
                              
Note
Contrast ratios can range from 1 to 21 (commonly written 1:1 to 21:1).
Note
Because authors do not have control over user settings as to how text is rendered
                              (for example font smoothing or anti-aliasing), the contrast ratio for text can be
                              evaluated with anti-aliasing turned off.
                              
Note
For the purpose of Success Criteria 1.4.3 and 1.4.6, contrast is measured with respect
                              to the specified background over which the text is rendered in normal usage. If no
                              background color is specified, then white is assumed.
                              
Note
Background color is the specified color of content over which the text is to be rendered
                              in normal usage. It is a failure if no background color is specified when the text
                              color is specified, because the user's default background color is unknown and cannot
                              be evaluated for sufficient contrast. For the same reason, it is a failure if no text
                              color is specified when a background color is specified.
                              
Note
When there is a border around the letter, the border can add contrast and would be
                              used in calculating the contrast between the letter and its background. A narrow border
                              around the letter would be used as the letter. A wide border around the letter that
                              fills in the inner details of the letters acts as a halo and would be considered background.
                              
Note
WCAG conformance should be evaluated for color pairs specified in the content that
                              an author would expect to appear adjacent in typical presentation. Authors need not
                              consider unusual presentations, such as color changes made by the user agent, except
                              where caused by authors' code.
                              
essential
if removed, would fundamentally change the information or functionality of the content,
                           and information and functionality cannot be achieved in another way that would conform
                           
presentation
rendering of the content in a form to be perceived by users
                           
relative luminance
the relative brightness of any point in a colorspace, normalized to 0 for darkest
                           black and 1 for lightest white
                           
Note
For the sRGB colorspace, the relative luminance of a color is defined as L = 0.2126
                                 * R + 0.7152 * G + 0.0722 * B where R, G and B are defined as:
                                 
if RsRGB <= 0.04045 then R = RsRGB/12.92 else R = ((RsRGB+0.055)/1.055) ^ 2.4
                                    
if GsRGB <= 0.04045 then G = GsRGB/12.92 else G = ((GsRGB+0.055)/1.055) ^ 2.4
                                    
if BsRGB <= 0.04045 then B = BsRGB/12.92 else B = ((BsRGB+0.055)/1.055) ^ 2.4
                                    
and RsRGB, GsRGB, and BsRGB are defined as:
RsRGB = R8bit/255
GsRGB = G8bit/255
BsRGB = B8bit/255
The "^" character is the exponentiation operator. (Formula taken from 
                                 [[SRGB]].)
                                 
Note
Before May 2021 the value of 0.04045 in the definition was different (0.03928). It
                              was taken from an older version of the specification and has been updated. It has
                              no practical effect on the calculations in the context of these guidelines.
Note
Almost all systems used today to view Web content assume sRGB encoding. Unless it
                              is known that another color space will be used to process and display the content,
                              authors should evaluate using sRGB colorspace. If using other color spaces, see Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.3.
                              
Note
If dithering occurs after delivery, then the source color value is used. For colors
                              that are dithered at the source, the average values of the colors that are dithered
                              should be used (average R, average G, and average B).
                              
Note
Tools are available that automatically do the calculations when testing contrast and
                              flash.
                              
Note
A separate page giving the relative luminance definition using MathML to display the formulas is available.
                              
state
dynamic property expressing characteristics of a user interface component that may
                           change in response to user action or automated processes
States do not affect the nature of the component, but represent data associated with
                           the component or user interaction possibilities. Examples include focus, hover, select,
                           press, check, visited/unvisited, and expand/collapse.
structure
The way the parts of a Web page are organized in relation to each other; and
                              
The way a collection of Web pages is organized
                              
user agent
any software that retrieves and presents Web content for users
Web browsers, media players, plug-ins, and other programs — including assistive technologies — that help in retrieving, rendering, and interacting with Web content.
                              
user interface component
a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct
                           function
                           
Note
Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a single programmatic element.
                              "Components" here is not tied to programming techniques, but rather to what the user
                              perceives as separate controls.
                              
Note
User interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated
                              by scripts.
                              
Note
What is meant by "component" or "user interface component" here is also sometimes
                              called "user interface element".
                              
An applet has a "control" that can be used to move through content by line or page
                              or random access. Since each of these would need to have a name and be settable independently,
                              they would each be a "user interface component."
                              
web page
a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus any other resources
                           that are used in the rendering or intended to be rendered together with it by a user agent
Note
Although any "other resources" would be rendered together with the primary resource,
                              they would not necessarily be rendered simultaneously with each other.
                              
Note
For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a resource must be "non-embedded"
                              within the scope of conformance to be considered a Web page.
                              
A Web resource including all embedded images and media.
A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX). The program
                              lives entirely at http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area
                              and a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox, contacts, or calendar
                              to display, but do not change the URI of the page as a whole.
                              
A customizable portal site, where users can choose content to display from a set of
                              different content modules.
                              
When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your browser, you enter a movie-like
                              interactive shopping environment where you visually move around in a store dragging
                              products off of the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
                              you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a specification sheet
                              floating alongside. This might be a single-page Web site or just one page within a
                              Web site.
                              
 Back to Top
                  
 Help improve this page 
Please share your ideas, suggestions, or comments via e-mail to the publicly-archived
                  list group-ag-chairs@w3.org or via GitHub
E-mailFork & Edit on GitHubNew GitHub Issue
Date: Updated 13 July 2023.
Developed by Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) Participants (Co-Chairs: Alastair Campbell, Charles Adams, Rachael Bradley Montgomery. W3C Staff
               Contact: Michael Cooper).
The content was developed as part of the WAI-Core projects funded by U.S. Federal funds. The user interface was designed by the Education and
               Outreach Working Group (EOWG) with contributions from Shadi Abou-Zahra, Steve Lee, and Shawn Lawton Henry as part
               of the WAI-Guide project, co-funded by the European Commission.
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)
Strategies, standards, and supporting resources to make the Web accessible to people
                  with disabilities.
 Twitter
 Feed
 YouTube
Get News in Email
Copyright © 2023 World Wide Web Consortium (W3C®). See Permission to Use WAI Material.
Contact WAI
Site Map
News
Accessibility Statement
 Translations
Resources for Roles