BBC NEWS | Health | NHS 'now four different systems'
HomeNewsSportRadioTVWeatherLanguages
Low graphics|Accessibility help

One-Minute World News
News services
Your news when you want it
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Medical notes
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
RELATED BBC SITES
SPORT
WEATHER
ON THIS DAY
EDITORS' BLOG
Last Updated: Wednesday, 2 January 2008, 00:02 GMT
                E-mail this to a friend
            
 Printable version
            
NHS 'now four different systems'
                        By Nick Triggle
                    
                        Health reporter, BBC news
                    
Elderly people are means-tested for personal care in England, unlike in Scotland
There are now four different NHS systems operating in the UK since devolution, according to health chiefs.

As the NHS enters its 60th year, NHS Confederation boss Gill Morgan has told the BBC the health service is now in a unique position in its history.

Ms Morgan said while the underlying principles of free health care still stand, patients in the UK's four  nations are getting different services.

Patient groups said the situation was breeding envy.

Ms Morgan, whose organisation represents NHS trusts and health boards, said there was no longer a universal system across the UK, as there had been when it was set up by the Atlee government in the summer of 1948.
                            GOING THEIR OWN WAYS?
                        
England - NHS market created whereby hospitals and community services have to compete with the private sector for patients, resulting in big falls in waiting times
Scotland - Doctors have much more of a say in services, with limited involvement from the private sector. Meanwhile, patients enjoy free personal care, unlike the means-tested systems elsewhere
Wales - Close working relationship between the NHS and local government, which has meant more innovation on public health, but less emphasis on waiting times
Northern Ireland - Somewhat hamstrung by political situation, but re-organisation of trusts pushed through and good integration between social care and NHS
The carve up of the NHSYour views

She told the BBC News website: "We basically have four different systems albeit with the same set of values. 

"This period [since devolution] has been unique in the history of the NHS as it was essentially the same across the UK before devolution. 

"We have had a complete split in philosophy. 

"The model in England is about contestability and choice driving service improvements. Outside organisations have been brought in and patients can shop around.

"That model has been rejected by the other three."

In Scotland, where people have been given free personal care - unlike the means-tested systems elsewhere - Ms Morgan said there has been much more consensus.

She described the approach as the "collectivist model".

"They have very little contestability. 

"They have been slower to improve waiting than England, but much less tension between doctors and managers. 

"In Northern Ireland  there has been very big structural change and more integration between health and social care."
Impact

And in Wales, which has received praise in England for introducing free prescriptions, she said the close working relationship between local government and the NHS had had an impact on public health.

She said it was too early to say which was more successful and in the coming years the differences would become even "greater".

"All we can say is that patients are experiencing different systems, each one has its advantages and we will have to wait to see what happens."

But Joyce Robins of Patient Concern said the differences were "breeding envy".
Health is the most important service devolved governments have power over
 
Professor Chris Ham, of Birmingham University

"Patients are increasingly looking across national borders and wondering why they are not getting the care others are getting. 

"I am not sure that is good for the NHS."

Michael Summers, vice chair of the Patients Association, said England was lagging behind the rest of the UK.

"England - for some reason - seems to have been the poor relation."

And Professor Chris Ham, a former government adviser and Birmingham University heath expert, said the NHS had proved an important battleground since devolution.

"Health is the most important service devolved governments have power over."
                E-mail this to a friend
            
 Printable version
            
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS
                                        NHS Confederation boss Gill Morgan on different systems
                                SEE ALSO
                        
Is the NHS still relevant?
01 Jan 08 | 
Have Your Say
The carve-up of the NHS
02 Jan 08 | 
Health
Health policy clash 'intentional'
29 Nov 07 | 
Health
Health system 'neglects elderly'
27 Mar 06 | 
Health
Many care homes 'fail on drugs'
07 Feb 06 | 
Health
Thousands of old people 'drugged'
05 Nov 03 | 
Health
                                        RELATED INTERNET LINKS
                                        
                                
                                                        Department of Health
                                                        
                                                
                                                        The Scottish Government
                                                        
                                                
                                                The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
                                        
TOP HEALTH STORIES
Stem cell method put to the test
Hospitals 'eyeing private market'
Low vitamin D 'Parkinson's link'
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
Tourists flock to 'Jesus's tomb' in Kashmir
Most popular now, in detail
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail



FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS

Ghost town




Has China's housing bubble burst?



The guerilla plant 




How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire



Walking away




Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit



Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
 
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC Copyright NoticeMMIX
Most Popular Now | 17,029 pages were read in the last minute.";
Back to top ^^
Help
Privacy and cookies policy
News sources
About the BBC
Contact us
Advertise with us