Diphthongs Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Diphthongs303 FollowersRecent papers in DiphthongsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleEnglish Sound SystemSave to LibraryDownloadby Joice Kong•  3  Diphthongs, Enunciation, Pronunciation2002. Tohono O'odham syllable weight: Descriptive, theoretical and applied aspectsSave to LibraryDownloadby Mizuki Miyashita•  7  Second Language Acquisition, Phonology, Language Documentation, DiphthongsBangor Welsh Diphthongs as Right-Headed Domains (pre-print)Save to LibraryDownloadby Tomasz  Czerniak•  6  Phonology, Welsh linguistics, Diphthongs, Celtic LinguisticsLa diphtongaison des voyelles moyennes [The Diphthonigization of French Mid Vowels]D'une point de vue articulatoire, la diphtongaison consiste dans la segmentation d'une voyelle en deux éléments de timbre différent (ex : [ai], [ei]). Elle résulte non pas d'un affaiblissement de l'effort musculaire mais plutôt d'une plus... moreD'une point de vue articulatoire, la diphtongaison consiste dans la segmentation d'une voyelle en deux éléments de timbre différent (ex : [ai], [ei]). Elle résulte non pas d'un affaiblissement de l'effort musculaire mais plutôt d'une plus grande dépense d'energie articulatoire. Le terme << diphtongaison romane >> s'applique traditionnellement à l'evolution des voyelles latines ĕ et ŏ, accentuées dans la plupart des langues romanes. Si on la désigne par le terme de diphtongaison romane, c'est pour la distinguer de la diphtongaison qui frappe ẹ (< ē, ĭ) et ọ (< ō, ŭ) accentués, et qu'on appelle diphtongaison française, bien que son extension géographique ne se limite pas au territoire où l'on parle le français proprement dit. Généralement, le terme << diphtongaison >> s'agit de la scission d'une voyelle simple (monophtongue) en deux éléments, dont le degré d'aperture est différent. C'est ainsi que ĕ et ŏ accentuées soumis à la diphtongaison romane aboutissent en toscan à ie et uo. La diphtongaison romane donne donc des diphtongues dont le premier élément est plus fermé que le second, tandis que l'inverse se produit pour la diphtogaison française : ei, ou. On dit que ie est une diphtongue ouvrante et ei une diphtongue fermante. Dans les langues où la diphtongaison domane a lieu, ĕ aboutit presque toujours à ie ; une évolution postérieure en ia ne se rencontre que sporadiquement, par exemple, en léonais. Par contre, une évolution ultérieure uo est courante : ue en espagnol et en ancien français, ö en français moderne, pour ne citer que quelques exemples typiques. En français et en toscan, cette diphtogaison semble avoir lieu principalement dans les cas où la voyelle latine se trouvait en syllabe ouverte (la voyelle étant libre), alors qu'en espagnol, par exemple, la diphtongaison se manifeste aussi bien en syllabe ouverte qu'en syllabe fermée (voyelle entravée). En outre, dans un nombre assez considérable de langues et de dialectes, la diphtongaison sembre être liée à la métaphonie et notamment à l'influence d'un ī ou d'un ŭ de la syllabe finale. Quel est le résultat de l'evolution de ĕ et ŏ accentuées dans le français ? Le français présente, tant dans la langue officielle que dans les dialectes, une diphtongue (ie pour ĕ accentuée, ö issu d'une diphtongue pour ŏ accentuée) en syllabe ouverte, tandis que sous l'entrave, la diphtongue n'apparait que devant un élement palatal et dans quelques autres cas particuliers. Dialectalement, on trouve cependant i comme résultat d'un ĕ accentuée libre, mais le plus important, c'est de constater que certains dialectes péripheriques (le wallon et en partie le lorrain) connaissent la diphtongaison même en syllabe fermée. Le français méridional ne connaît généralement pas de diphtongaison sauf dans le voisinage d'un élément palatal (et parfois vélaire). Il est vrai qu'on la trouve sporadiquement et surtout dans l'extrême sud-est, mais à moins d'en donner une description détaillée, on peut dire que le français méridional est généralement dépourvu de diphtongues.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Enrique Ibarra•  19  Diachronic Linguistics (Or Historical Linguistics), Historical Linguistics, Diphthongs, French linguisticsA southern feature in a northern accent: A sociolinguistic investigation into the Birmingham diphthong shiftAlthough Birmingham English is commonly treated as a northern variety (Wells 1982, Cruttenden 2008), it has also got accentual features typical for the linguistic south. One of these traits is the diphthong shift, a phenomenon that... moreAlthough Birmingham English is commonly treated as a northern variety (Wells 1982, Cruttenden 2008), it has also got accentual features typical for the linguistic south. One of these traits is the diphthong shift, a phenomenon that originated in London and later spread on to many southern accents of England, as well as to places as remote as New Zealand or Australia (Wells 1982: 252, 257, Britain and Sudbury 2008: 1). It is a process where fronting diphthongs change their quality in a clockwise direction, e.g. FACE from /eɪ/ to /aɪ/, while the back-closing diphthongs move in quality towards an anti-clockwise direction, e.g. GOAT from /əʊ/ to /aʊ/ (Wells 1982: 308-310). Some recent data (Khan 2006, Kerswill et al. 2008) had suggested a reversal of this shift in London and Birmingham, which strongly inspired the present study. This paper presents the results of field research performed in Birmingham in 2012. It investigates the pronunciation of diphthongs in speech of ten young middle-class speakers (mean age = 22.8). The wordlist read by the participants featured all diphthongs read in the b_d frame, together 254 tokens. All measurements were later performed in Praat (Boersma and Weenink 2012). The results stand mostly in opposition to Khan (2006) and Kerswill et al. (2008). Namely, in the researched group, there is no sign of the reversal of the diphthong shift. The diphthongs are considerably shifted across all speakers. For example, the CHOICE vowel starts relatively very close giving the realisation in [oɪ] and MOUTH is realised as [æʊ]. These results shed new light on the current adaptation of the diphthong shift in Birmingham and imply that the diphthong shift may not be very sociolinguistically marked in this urban area.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kamil Malarski•  6  Sociolinguistics, Diphthongs, Sociophonetics, Birmingham EnglishAn Introduction to the Study of Medieval Latin VersificationDag Norberg's analysis and interpretation of Medieval Latin versification, which was published in French in 1958 and remains the standard work on the subject, appears here for the first time in English with a detailed, scholarly... moreDag Norberg's analysis and interpretation of Medieval Latin versification, which was published in French in 1958 and remains the standard work on the subject, appears here for the first time in English with a detailed, scholarly introduction by Jan Ziolkowski that reviews the developments of the past fifty years.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jan Ziolkowski•  38  Latin Literature, Humanities, Languages and Linguistics, Medieval Literature[2014] Мызников С.А. (отв. ред.), Бродский И.В., Гайдамашко Р.В., Люблинская М.Д. (ред.). ВОПРОСЫ УРАЛИСТИКИ 2014. Научный альманахВторой выпуск альманаха продолжает публикацию статей и материалов, относящихся к различным разделам уралистики. В работах освещаются общие вопросы уралистики, вопросы фонетики, грамматики и лексикологии различных языков уральской семьи. В... moreВторой выпуск альманаха продолжает публикацию статей и материалов, относящихся к различным разделам уралистики. В работах освещаются общие вопросы уралистики, вопросы фонетики, грамматики и лексикологии различных языков уральской семьи. В ряде статей анализируются проблемы фольклористики, литературоведения и истории. Определенное место в альманахе занимают публикации языковых материалов, научная полемика и дискуссии.Альманах предназначен для специалистов по финно-угорским и самодийским языкам, может быть интересен широкому кругу читателей-носителей уральских языков.Save to LibraryDownloadby Сергей  Мызников and +2Igor BrodskyРоман  Гайдамашко•  100  Mythology And Folklore, Folklore, Historical Archaeology, Languages and LinguisticsLos numerales ibéricos y el protovasco"Resumen: Este trabajo es una réplica al artículo de Joseba Lakarra (2010), publicado en Veleia 27. Se intenta aquí demostrar que no existe incompatibilidad entre los numerales ibéricos propuestos en Orduña (2005) y Ferrer i Jané (2009) y... more"Resumen: Este trabajo es una réplica al artículo de Joseba Lakarra (2010), publicado en Veleia 27. Se intenta aquí demostrar que no existe incompatibilidad entre los numerales ibéricos propuestos en Orduña (2005) y Ferrer i Jané (2009) y el protovasco, al menos en lo que tiene de más sólidamente establecido. Además, algunas de las etimologías propuestaspor Lakarra son altamente improbables, por implicar una formación tardía, que choca con el carácter vasco común de todos los numerales vascos. Abstract: This work is a replica of the article by Joseba Lakarra (2010), published in Veleia 27. An attempt is made here to show that there is no incompatibility between the Iberian numerals proposed in Orduña (2005) and Ferrer i Jané (2009) and Proto-Basque, at least in terms of what has beenmost firmly established. Moreover, some of the etymologies proposed by Lakarra are highly unlikely, as they imply late formations which are at oddswith the common Basque nature of all Basque numerals."Save to LibraryDownloadby Eduardo Orduña•  9  Diphthongs, Chronology, Loans, Basque LanguageThe Diphthongs of Formal Nigerian English: A Preliminary Acoustic Analysis (Dyrenko & Fuchs)Postcolonial varieties of English, used in countries such as Nigeria, India and Singapore, are subject to both local ("endonormative") and external ("exonormative") forces, the latter often in the form of British/American English. This... morePostcolonial varieties of English, used in countries such as Nigeria, India and Singapore, are subject to both local ("endonormative") and external ("exonormative") forces, the latter often in the form of British/American English. This gives rise to a stylistic continuum, where informal speech is more endonormatively oriented than formal/educated speech, which, nevertheless, is clearly distinguishable from British/American English. The formal end of the continuum is often regarded as the incipient local standard. Nigerian English (NigE) is the most widely spoken African variety of English, but empirical/quantitative descriptions are rare. In this pilot study, we present an acoustic analysis of eight phonological diphthongs produced in formal contexts by nine educated speakers of NigE with L1 Yoruba and drawn from the ICE Nigeria corpus. Results show that the NigE speakers produced more monophthongal realisations of English phonological diphthongs than speakers of British English (BrE) do, as measured by trajectory length in F1-F2 space. Phonetically, most of these vowels can be considered monophthongs. The results can be explained through two factors at work during the foundation phase of NigE: (1) historical L1 influence and (2) the native English input present in the country, which involved more monophthongal realisations of some phonological diphthongs than in present-day BrE.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Fuchs•  37  Languages, Teaching English as a Second Language, Languages and Linguistics, English as the World's LanguageEarly Modern EnglishSave to Libraryby Joan Beal•  20  Historical Linguistics, Middle English, Gesture, ArabicINDONESIAN STUDENTS' DIFFICULTIES IN PRONOUNCING ENGLISH DIPHTONGSOne of Indonesian students' difficulties in learning English is pronouncing English sounds correctly. Indonesian language as mother tongue influences significantly to the way of Indonesian students in pronouncing English sounds. Compared... moreOne of Indonesian students' difficulties in learning English is pronouncing English sounds correctly. Indonesian language as mother tongue influences significantly to the way of Indonesian students in pronouncing English sounds. Compared to English, Indonesian language generally does not have differences between spelling the letter and pronouncing the sounds. Among all English sounds, diphthongs are assumed as one of the most difficulties pronounced by Indonesian students. This study was conducted to thirty five students of University of Pasir Pengaraian, Riau Province by using mix method where the researcher gave test to find out students' difficulties in pronouncing English diphthongs and observation to describe the factors influencing students' difficulties in pronouncing English diphthongs. The result of study showed that the most difficult of English diphthong was [аυ] sound. Factors influencing students have difficulties in pronouncing English diphthongs were mother language interfere, lack of knowledge in English sound systems and unsuccessful in using borrowed English words. This study is expected can give contribution in improving Indonesian students pronunciation especially diphthong sounds.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andri Donal•  2  Diphthongs, English PronunciationNasalité et syllabe : Une étude synchronique, diachronique et dialectologique du portugais européenLa nasalisation vocalique en portugais est un sujet qui a suscité de nombreuses recherches, notamment (i) sur le statut des voyelles nasales : voyelles nasales phonologiques (/Ṽ/) ou rimes syllabiques complexes (/VN/ ou /VV/) ? Et (ii)... moreLa nasalisation vocalique en portugais est un sujet qui a suscité de nombreuses recherches, notamment (i) sur le statut des voyelles nasales : voyelles nasales phonologiques (/Ṽ/) ou rimes syllabiques complexes (/VN/ ou /VV/) ? Et (ii) sur les changements à l’origine de la convergence des terminaisons latines -ANE, -ONE, -ANU, -UDINE, -ANT et -UNT dans la diphtongue nasale.Nous procédons à l’analyse critique des recherches menées sur la structure syllabique et les voyelles nasales de cette langue pour en proposer une nouvelle analyse synchronique, en nous fondant sur le modèle dit du « CV strict » de la Phonologie du Gouvernement, où les structures à constituants hiérarchisés sont remplacées par des relations latérales entre positions.Nous basons notre analyse synchronique sur trois aspects : (i) des données historiques, car les changements diachroniques nous donnent des informations à propos des conditions nécessaires à la formation des noyaux nasals ; (ii) des données de phonétique acoustique, en partant du principe que la durée phonétique est l’un des corrélats de la complexité phonologique des noyaux nasals ; (iii) des données de variation dialectale.Enfin, dans la partie diachronique de l’étude, nous montrons comment le modèle proposé aide à expliquer les facteurs qui ont mené à la constitution des noyaux nasals du portugais moderne ou l'en ont empêchée.*****************************Vocalic nasalisation in Portuguese has been the subject of numerous studies, especially regarding (i) the status of nasal vowels: are they phonological nasal vowels (/Ṽ/) or complex syllable rhymes (/VN/ or /VV/)? And (ii) the changes responsible for the convergence of the Latin endings -ANE, -ONE, -ANU, -UDINE, -ANT and -UNT into the nasal diphthong -ão.We proceed with a critical analysis of the studies on this language’s syllable structure and nasal vowels to propose a new synchronic analysis of it, based on the “Strict CV” model of Government Phonology, where hierarchical constituents’ structures are replaced by lateral relations between positions.Our synchronic analysis will be based on three aspects: (i) on historical data, diachronic changes providing information on the conditions required for forming a nasal nucleus; (ii) on acoustic phonetic data, assuming that phonetic duration can be a correlate to nasal nuclei phonological complexity; (iii) on dialectal variation data.Lastly, in the diachronic part of this thesis, we demonstrate how the model we propose helps to explain the phonetic changes that either led to the creation of modern Portuguese nasal nuclei or prevented it.Save to LibraryDownloadby Heglyn Pimenta•  12  Diphthongs, Linguistic Variation, Formal Linguistics, Diachronic PhonologyDyftongi w języku greckim. Historyczne zmiany fonologiczne (preprint)Praca została zaakceptowana jako część publikacji pokonferencyjnej i odnosi się do mojego wystąpienia na ogólnopolskiej konferencji językoznawczej "Język w Poznaniu" (15.05.2015). Tematem pracy są dyftongi w ujęciu fonologii historycznej... morePraca została zaakceptowana jako część publikacji pokonferencyjnej i odnosi się do mojego wystąpienia na ogólnopolskiej konferencji językoznawczej "Język w Poznaniu" (15.05.2015). Tematem pracy są dyftongi w ujęciu fonologii historycznej języka greckiego. Zajmuję się analizą zmian, jakie zachodzą w dyftongach na przestrzeni wieków - opisuję procesy monoftongizacji, itacyzmu oraz konsonantyzacji dwugłosek. Koncentruję się na zmianach w brzmieniu poszczególnych dyftongów od starożytności do współczesności. This work was accepted in the post-conference publication and it refers to my speech on the national linguistic conference 'Język w Poznaniu' (15.05.2015). The subject are diphthongs in terms of historical phonology of Greek language. I analyze the changes that occur in diphthongs over the centuries - I describe processes of monophthongization, itacism and consonantisation. The paper is focused on changes in the sound of individual diphthongs from antiquity to the present.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nina A Trzaska•  5  Greek Language, Diphthongs, Linguistics, Ancient Greek Language"Unusual" diphthongs in the ancient Indo-European languages and their interpretation Save to LibraryDownloadby Aurelijus Vijūnas•  7  Historical Linguistics, Phonology, Ancient Indo-European Languages, DiphthongsDifference in vowel production in upper and middle class (Tendency to switch /a/ and /ᴐ/ with each other and change /ai/ sound with /e)The present study explores the deviations made by Pakistani middle and lower class while pronouncing English words. The study particularly focus on the English vowel and diphthong sounds which are not really found in Urdu Phonemic... moreThe present study explores the deviations made by Pakistani middle and lower class while pronouncing English words. The study particularly focus on the English vowel and diphthong sounds which are not really found in Urdu Phonemic inventory and most people just overlook the standard pronunciation mainly due to ignorance and lack of use. This study will mainly focus on the tendency of middle and lower class of Pakistan to replace /ɔ/and /a/ sound with one and other when pronouncing words with these sounds. Moreover this study will analyze the tendency of the two aforementioned social classes to shorten Diphthong sound /ai/ to a monophthong /e/. This study will focus on the educational and economic background as well as other factors leading to these deviations in non-native speakers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ayesha  Tariq•  6  Languages and Linguistics, Sociolinguistics, Diphthongs, Quantitative ResearchÖstskandinavisk utveckling av den urnordiska ai-diftongen och palatalt r i ljuset av finska ljudsubstitutioner (publisher's offprint)This paper examines sound substitutions in Finnic loan words from Proto- and Ancient Scandinavian. Correlations are studied between Finnish/Estonian ai, äi, ei, and õi and eastern-Scandinavian descendants of the Proto-Scandinavian... moreThis paper examines sound substitutions in Finnic loan words from Proto- and Ancient Scandinavian. Correlations are studied between Finnish/Estonian ai, äi, ei, and õi and eastern-Scandinavian descendants of the Proto-Scandinavian diphthong ai, which developed over ɛi into the Old Swedish ē. On the basis of the observed correlations, substitution practices and their chronologies are reconstructed. A further aim of the paper is to seek independent evidence for the quality of the diphthong during different stages of eastern Scandinavian development. This subject is intertwined through chronology with the borrowing of Finnish napakaira meaning'bradawl, auger', namely with determining the form of the Scandinavian loan original *naƀaǥaiza- > Old-Icelandic nafarr (in particular *[z] > [r]) at the time of borrowing.It is shown that within a material of some 80 potentially borrowed pre-Viking Age Proto-Finnic stems there is not a single ascertained case where a descendant of this Scandinavian diphthong would have been substituted by *ei, whereas the very few possible cases of *äi cannot be judged to testify to a fronted quality in the original. Substitution practices using back stems, which were subject to Finnic palatal vowel harmony, persisted for a surprisingly long time. In parallel with the principal ɑi → *ɑi substitution, one with *ëi ~ [ɤ̞i] is used in 2–4 ascertained cases. This substitution may testifiy to some variation or modification of the Proto-Scandinavian diphthong.Save to LibraryDownloadby Johan Schalin•  35  Diachronic Linguistics (Or Historical Linguistics), Historical Linguistics, Germanic linguistics, DiphthongsAn Acoustic Description of Diphthongs in Two Varieties of AcehneseThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of... moreThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of empirical research on pronunciation differences between the standard variety of Acehnese spoken in Aceh and other varieties of Acehnese, this paper examines the acoustic features of oral diphthongs based on Asyik’s (1987) inventory of oral diphthongs. The data comprised diphthongs produced by ten female speakers of the North Aceh dialect (which is considered the standard form of Acehnese) and ten female speakers from Kampung Aceh in Kedah, Malaysia. Acehnese is still spoken in Kampung Aceh by descendants of Acehnese who settled in the area in the late 18th century. Based on the measurements of the Rate of Change of the first and second formants of the target diphthongs and an examination of the onset and offset positions of these diphthongs in the vowel...Save to LibraryDownloadby Yunisrina Qismullah Yusuf•  16  Geography, Phonology, Phonetics, DialectologySali[e͂j͂]cia social e mudança linguística: a ditongação de /e/ nasal no português paulistanoThis article analyzes the variable realization of /eN/ (as in fazenda ‘farm’ and pretendo ‘I intend’) as a monophthong [ẽ] or a diphthong [e͂j͂], in a contemporary corpus of 118 recordings with Paulistano speakers. Analyses of the... moreThis article analyzes the variable realization of /eN/ (as in fazenda ‘farm’ and pretendo ‘I intend’) as a monophthong [ẽ] or a diphthong [e͂j͂], in a contemporary corpus of 118 recordings with Paulistano speakers. Analyses of the speakers’ metalinguistic discourse show that the variable is below the level of consciousness in the community, even though diphthongal /eN/ seems to be a Paulistano stereotype (LABOV, 1972) for non-native speakers. The data were analyzed in mixed-effects models (BAAYEN, 2008; JOHNSON, 2009) in R and show that [e͂j͂] is spreading in the community, being strongly favored by women, speakers with a high level of education, of higher social classes and with less geographic mobility. However, these differences are neutralized among younger speakers. The article thus discusses the social embedding of a change from below (LABOV, 2001a) and, in complement to the model of flows and counterflows (SCHERRE; NARO, 2006) proposed for stigmatized variants, it suggests that variables below the level of consciousness tend to spread rapidly and unidirectionally.Save to LibraryDownloadby Livia  Oushiro•  5  Sociolinguistics, Language Variation and Change, Diphthongs, São Paulo (Brazil)Synchronic alternations between monophthongs and diphthongs in Franconian:  a metrical approachSave to LibraryDownloadby Björn Köhnlein•  8  Phonology, Diphthongs, Metrical Phonology, Metrics and Prosody2017. Sobol. Against Old English short diphthongs.pdfSince the earliest grammars, Old English has been analysed as having a length contrast in diphthongs, containing both regular, bimoraic ones, side by side with cross-linguistically unique monomoraic ones. The supposedly monomoraic... moreSince the earliest grammars, Old English has been analysed as having a length contrast in diphthongs, containing both regular, bimoraic ones, side by side with cross-linguistically unique monomoraic ones. The supposedly monomoraic diphthongs [io eo æɑ] arose through back umlaut and breaking. Unsurprisingly, they have become the source of possibly the greatest controversy in OE phonology, which still remains unresolved. The present paper refutes the main arguments for a length contrast in OE diphthongs. Instead, it argues for a generative phonological analysis, where the diphthongs constitute monomoraic monophthongs in the underlying representation, and bimoraic diphthongs in the surface representation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Helena Skowrońska•  6  Diphthongs, Vowel harmony, Old English Language, Syllable StructureMULTIDIMENSIONAL VARIATION IN ENGLISH DIPHTHONGSThe present study investigated the extent to which variation along formant trajectory dimensions-considered both separately and simultaneously-manifests in the English diphthongs CHOICE, FACE, MOUTH, GOAT and PRICE. The sources of... moreThe present study investigated the extent to which variation along formant trajectory dimensions-considered both separately and simultaneously-manifests in the English diphthongs CHOICE, FACE, MOUTH, GOAT and PRICE. The sources of variation were phonemic category, flanking consonants, speaker's gender and speaker's regional background. Formant trajectory dimensions were overall and time-varying first (F1) and second (F2) formant trajectories as parameterised by their means and time-varying slopes and curvature using the discrete cosine transform. Phonemic category was robustly predicted by variation in the combination of F1 and F2 means and slopes, whereas flanking consonants were not. Gender was strongly predicted by variation in F1 and F2 means, but not in F1 and F2 time-varying aspects. Regional background emerged in the variation of both F1 and F2 means, slopes and curvature to roughly similar extents. Given the acoustic multidimensionality of vowels, variation is most appropriately viewed with a multivariate approach.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Williams•  9  Statistics, Phonology, Multivariate Statistics, PhoneticsEsiti friulani del latino PĔCŎRA: regolarità di un'evoluzione foneticaThis paper analyses the apparently abnormal Friulan result of Lat. PĔCŎRA > ['pjo:re], whose difficulties can be solved through a point-by-point reconstruction of the internal phonetic evolution of the Friulan varieties and by their... moreThis paper analyses the apparently abnormal Friulan result of Lat. PĔCŎRA  > ['pjo:re], whose difficulties can be solved through a point-by-point reconstruction of the internal phonetic evolution of the Friulan varieties and by their comparison with the dialectal and historical materials. The phonetic reconstruction proves that this is not a case of metatony, as had been considered before, but a normal phonetic evolution, which finds various types of attestation within Friulan vocabolary and onomastics.Save to LibraryDownloadby Franco Finco•  14  Rhaeto-Romance languages, Diphthongs, Romance Linguistics, Phonetics and PhonologyReview of the book Vocales en grupo, by L. AguilarSave to LibraryDownloadby Eugenia San Segundo•  3  Phonetics, Diphthongs, Spanish LinguisticsReversing “drift”: Innovation and diffusion in the London diphthong systemThis study contributes to innovation and diffusion models by examining phonetic changes in London English. It evaluates Sapir's notion of “drift,” which involves “natural,” unconscious change, in relation to these changes. Investigating... moreThis study contributes to innovation and diffusion models by examining phonetic changes in London English. It evaluates Sapir's notion of “drift,” which involves “natural,” unconscious change, in relation to these changes. Investigating parallel developments in two related varieties of English enables drift to be tested in terms of the effect of extralinguistic factors. The diphthongs of price, mouth, face, and goat in both London and New Zealand English are characterized by “Diphthong Shift,” a process that continued unabated in New Zealand. A new, large data set of London speech shows Diphthong Shift reversal, providing counterevidence for drift. We discuss Diphthong Shift and its “reversal” in relation to innovation, diffusion, leveling, and supralocalization, arguing that sociolinguistic factors and dialect contact override natural Diphthong Shift. Studying dialect change in a metropolis, with its large and linguistically innovative minority ethnic population, is of the utmost importance in understanding the dynamics of change.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul E Kerswill and +1Eivind Torgersen•  4  Diphthongs, Vowel Shifts, London English, DriftDuration and phonological complexity: Comparing standard European Portuguese nasal vowels and oral diphthongsPortuguese nasal vowels have been described as being long and having a diphthong-like acoustic pattern (Hajek & Watson 2007) . They are therefore a complex topic both for phonetic description and phonological analysis. Phonologically, it... morePortuguese nasal vowels have been described as being long and having a diphthong-like acoustic pattern (Hajek & Watson 2007) . They are therefore a complex topic both for phonetic description and phonological analysis. Phonologically, it has been proposed that nasality is directly associated (a) to the vowel /Ṽ/; (b) with an underlying nasal consonant in coda position /VN/; or (c) with a vocalic position in a complex nucleus /VṼ/. Even if (b) is the most commonly accepted proposal, I will show that the behaviour of nasal vowels suggests eliminating both (a) and (b), which leaves only proposal (c). Nasal vowels and oral diphthongs share some properties, such as behaving as heavy rhymes regarding stress assignment; allowing suffixation of the morpheme /-s/ without epenthesis; showing no resyllabification in external sandhi contexts; in addition to the fact that neither undergoes vowel reduction in unstressed positions. Assuming that length can be a correlate to phonological complexity, (c) will be supported if, in addition to the other similarities between diphthongs and nasal vowels, these objects are similar in length. To my knowledge, the length of Portuguese nasal vowels has never been compared to that of complex nuclei. To assess the respective length of nasal vowels and oral diphthongs, I compare the duration of oral vowels (V), nasal vowels (VN) and oral diphthongs (VG) in two contexts: word-finally (_#), and before a heterosyllabic consonant (_.C) . Results-show that oral vowels are statistically shorter than oral diphthongs, which have the same duration as nasal vowels (i.e. V <VG= VN). This provides a phonetic grounding for the representation of Portuguese nasal vowels as phonological diphthongs. Finally, I will address three additional facts: (i) while oral diphthongs behave as open syllables regarding rhotics, allowing a contrast between /r/ and /R/, nasal vowels trigger neutralization, just as coda consonants; (ii) Portuguese also has nasal diphthongs, which are almost in complementary distribution with nasal vowels, since the latter exist in all positions but are clearly dispreferred in final position, while the former are found almost exclusively in stressed final position; (iii) in non-standard varieties, nasal vowels and diphthongs can alternate. I propose a phonological representation of Portuguese nasality that motivates both the similarities and the differences between oral diphthongs and nasal vowels.Save to LibraryDownloadby Heglyn Pimenta•  3  Diphthongs, European Portuguese, Nasal VowelsConsciência e caracterização fonética de variação dialectal em português europeuEuropean Portuguese (EP) spoken in continental Portugal presents some particularities that account for different dialectal categorization proposals. From these proposals, which were revisited on the first part of this work, two perceptual... moreEuropean Portuguese (EP) spoken in continental Portugal presents some particularities that account for different dialectal categorization proposals. From these proposals, which were revisited on the first part of this work, two perceptual tests were made. These tests allowed us to verify that the diphthongization/monothongization phenomena were the ones that contributed the most to the correct identification and discrimination of six EP dialectal varieties. The analysis of the results obtained on the perceptual tests led to the conclusion that the absence of a given phenomenon may also be functional in dialectal categorization tasks, such as the ones required on the scope of this research. In order to assess the distinctive value of the mentioned phenomena, a corpus was designed and recordings were made in Minho and Alentejo regions. Based on the segmentation and analysis of the collected corpus, duration values and the first two formants values were extracted which confirmed the existence of variation, both between the two regions and in relation to the EP central variant. Results showed a tendency to the reduction of the diphthong [6j], in Alentejo, and to the prolonging of vowel [E], in the two studied regions. However, the latter phenomenon presents distinct configurations. The results thus obtained, both in the perception and production tests, account for the existence and richness of phonetic regional variation in EP.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luis Salema•  6  Languages and Linguistics, Dialectology, Diphthongs, Linguistics“Did you Say Face or Fierce?” Variation of Four Geordie Vowels in the TLS corpus.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maelle AMAND•  6  Phonetics, Dialects of English, Sociolinguistics, DiphthongsEthnic variation in real time Change in Australian English diphthongsEthnic and ethnolectal variation in migrant communities have received much attention, but the manifestation and longevity of this variation is not yet well understood. Capitalising on Barbara Horvath's foundational study of social... moreEthnic and ethnolectal variation in migrant communities have received much attention, but the manifestation and longevity of this variation is not yet well understood. Capitalising on Barbara Horvath's foundational study of social variation in Australian English, and a comparable, recent corpus of sociolinguistic interviews (Sydney Speaks 2010s), we present a real-time test of ethnic variation in the speech of approximately 170 Australians over a 40-year period. We examine the speech of Anglo-, Italian-and Chinese-Australians, focusing on five diphthongs considered to be characteristic of Australian English. Analyses of over 20,000 tokens reveal no wholesale differences among ethnic groups, but they do reveal some differences in the progression and social conditioning of changes over time, which we argue are best understood in relation to the social nature of the changes undergone.Save to LibraryDownloadby James Grama•  5  Language Variation and Change, Diphthongs, Ethnolects, VowelsSome sociolinguistic considerations on Old English phonologySave to LibraryDownloadby Herbert  Schendl•  8  Historical Linguistics, Sociolinguistics, Diphthongs, Historical sociolinguistics2011. Diphthongs in Tohono O’odhamSave to LibraryDownloadby Mizuki Miyashita•  5  Anthropology, Anthropological Linguistics, Diphthongs, LinguisticsYusuf, Y.Q., & Pillai, S. (2013). Acoustic description of diphthongs in two varieties of Acehnese. Pertanika Journal of Social Science & Humanities, 21(S), 153-168.This paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of... moreThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of empirical research on pronunciation differences between the standard variety of Acehnese spoken in Aceh and other varieties of Acehnese, this paper examines the acoustic features of oral diphthongs based on Asyik’s (1987) inventory of oral diphthongs. The data comprised diphthongs produced by ten female speakers of the North Aceh dialect (which is considered the standard form of Acehnese) and ten female speakers from Kampung Aceh in Kedah, Malaysia. Acehnese is still spoken in Kampung Aceh by descendants of Acehnese who settled in the area in the late 18th century. Based on the measurements of the Rate of Change of the first and second formants of the target diphthongs and an examination of the onset and offset positions of these diphthongs in the vowel space, it was found that there were fewer diphthongs in the Kampung Aceh variety compared to that of the North Aceh. A possible reason for this is the influence of the Kedah Malay dialect and Standard Malay. The diphthongs produced by the Acehnese speakers also displayed some differences from the ones described by Asyik (1987).Save to LibraryDownloadby Yunisrina Qismullah Yusuf and +1Stefanie Pillai•  7  Phonetics, Diphthongs, Acoustic Phonetics, Indonesian Language & LinguisticsYusuf, Y. Q., Pillai, S. 2013. An acoustic description of diphthongs in two varieties of Acehnese. Pertanika Journal of Social Science and Humanities 21(Special Issue):153-168This paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of... moreThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of empirical research on pronunciation differences between the standard variety of Acehnese spoken in Aceh and other varieties of Acehnese, this paper examines the acoustic features of oral diphthongs based on Asyik’s (1987) inventory of oral diphthongs. The data comprised diphthongs produced by ten female speakers of the North Aceh dialect (which is considered the standard form of Acehnese) and ten female speakers from Kampung Aceh in Kedah, Malaysia. Acehnese is still spoken in Kampung Aceh by descendants of Acehnese who settled in the area in the late 18th century. Based on the measurements of the Rate of Change of the first and second formants of the target diphthongs and an examination of the onset and offset positions of these diphthongs in the vowel...Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefanie Pillai and +1Yunisrina Qismullah Yusuf•  14  Phonology, Phonetics, Dialectology, Language Variation and ChangeAn acoustic description of diphthongs in two varieties of acehneseThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of... moreThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of empirical research on pronunciation differences between the standard variety of Acehnese spoken in Aceh and other varieties of Acehnese, this paper examines the acoustic features of oral diphthongs based on Asyik’s (1987) inventory of oral diphthongs. The data comprised diphthongs produced by ten female speakers of the North Aceh dialect (which is considered the standard form of Acehnese) and ten female speakers from Kampung Aceh in Kedah, Malaysia. Acehnese is still spoken in Kampung Aceh by descendants of Acehnese who settled in the area in the late 18 th century. Based on the measurements of the Rate of Change of the first and second formants of the target diphthongs and an examination of the onset and offset positions of these diphthongs in the vowe...Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefanie Pillai•  15  Geography, Phonology, Phonetics, DialectologyThe Effects of Language Contact on Non-Native Vowel Sequences in Lexical Borrowings: The Case of Media LenguaMedia Lengua (ML), a mixed language derived from Quichua and Spanish, exhibits a phonological system that largely conforms to that of Quichua acoustically. Yet, it incorporates a large number of vowel sequences from Spanish which do not... moreMedia Lengua (ML), a mixed language derived from Quichua and Spanish, exhibits a phonological system that largely conforms to that of Quichua acoustically. Yet, it incorporates a large number of vowel sequences from Spanish which do not occur in the Quichua system. Thisincludes the use of mid-vowels, which are phonetically realized in ML as largely overlapping with the high-vowels in acoustic space. We analyze and compare production of vowel sequences by speakers of ML, Quichua, and Spanish through the use of generalized additive mixed models to determine statistically significant differences between vowel formant trajectories. Our results indicate that Spanish-derived ML vowel sequences frequently differ significantly from their Spanish counterparts, largely occupying a more central region of the vowel space and frequently exhibiting markedly reduced trajectories over time. In contrast, we find only one case where an ML vowel sequence differs significantly from its Quichua counterpart—and even in this case the difference from Spanish is substantially greater. Our findings show howthe vowel system of ML successfully integrates novel vowel sequence patterns from Spanish into what is essentially Quichua phonology by markedly adapting their production, while still maintaining contrasts which are not expressed in Quichua.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jesse Stewart•  13  Phonetics, Diphthongs, Linguistics, Spanish in contact with other languagesGli esiti di lat. EU nelle varietà ladine e friulane: dittongazioni e apparenti metatonieThe paper deals with the phonetic evolution of the Latin diphthong EU in Friulian and in the Ladin varieties.   /   L'articolo tratta dell'evoluzione fonetica del dittongo latino EU nel friulano e nelle varietà ladine dolomitiche.Save to LibraryDownloadby Franco Finco•  20  Rhaeto-Romance languages, Diphthongs, Romance Linguistics, Romance LanguagesThe Vowel System of the Dialects of the Vipava Valley in Government PhonologyThis paper deals with the vowel systems of the Vipava Valley dialects of Slovenian and their analysis within the generative framework of Government Phonology. The data itself was gathered through fieldwork performed on four different... moreThis paper deals with the vowel systems of the Vipava Valley dialects of Slovenian and their analysis within the generative framework of Government Phonology. The data itself was gathered through fieldwork performed on four different dialects: two from the Inner Carniolan and two from the Karst dialect group. The phonological status of individual sounds and sound clusters as well as the differences between the vowel systems themselves are determined by following Government Phonology methods and criteria. The analysis presented in the thesis suggests that the two dialect groups share a single vowel system and not two distinct ones as is normally assumed in traditionalliterature.Save to LibraryDownloadby Adrian Stegovec•  6  Diphthongs, Generative linguistics, Government Phonology, Generative grammarA Stabilized Finite Element Method for the Mixed Wave Equation in an ALE Framework With Application to Diphthong ProductionSave to LibraryDownloadby Oriol Guasch•  14  Mechanical Engineering, Ocean Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, MathematicsAn Acoustic Description of Diphthongs in Two Varieties of AcehneseThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of... moreThis paper complements current descriptions of Acehnese pronunciation by not only comparing two varieties of Acehnese but also by carrying out an acoustic analysis of the diphthongs in these varieties. Given that there is a dearth of empirical research on pronunciation differences between the standard variety of Acehnese spoken in Aceh and other varieties of Acehnese, this paper examines the acoustic features of oral diphthongs based on Asyik’s (1987) inventory of oral diphthongs. The data comprised diphthongs produced by ten female speakers of the North Aceh dialect (which is considered the standard form of Acehnese) and ten female speakers from Kampung Aceh in Kedah, Malaysia. Acehnese is still spoken in Kampung Aceh by descendants of Acehnese who settled in the area in the late 18th century. Based on the measurements of the Rate of Change of the first and second formants of the target diphthongs and an examination of the onset and offset positions of these diphthongs in the vowel...Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefanie Pillai•  14  Phonology, Phonetics, Dialectology, Language Variation and ChangeDiphthongs in North Ukrainian dialects (intensity diagrams analysis)The article deals with a problem of diphthongs in vowel space of Polissya dialects. The diphthong presence on old-established phonemes /е/, /ě/, /о/ is showed by intonography (by analysis of the intensity tracks of diphthong waves) are... moreThe article deals with a problem of diphthongs in vowel space of Polissya  dialects. The diphthong presence on old-established phonemes /е/, /ě/, /о/ is  showed by intonography (by analysis of the intensity tracks of diphthong waves) are studied.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oleksandr Ishchenko•  8  Phonetics, Dialectology, Diphthongs, VowelsThe Acquisition of Vocalic Sequences by English-Speaking L2 Learners of SpanishSave to LibraryDownloadby Bethany  MacLeod•  3  Spanish, Diphthongs, TransferThe Diphthong <ei> in Variationist Studies of Brazilian Portuguese: A Systematic Literature ReviewThis study presents a systematic literature review of the monophthongization of the diphthong <ei> in Brazilian Portuguese. Monophthongization is a sound change by which a diphthong becomes a single vowel. Thus, the output of, for... moreThis study presents a systematic literature review of the monophthongization of the diphthong <ei> in Brazilian Portuguese. Monophthongization is a sound change by which a diphthong becomes a single vowel. Thus, the output of, for example, the word beira (‘edge’) can be b[eI]ra or b[e]ra. Our primary sources, 10 Master’s theses that analyzed this phenomenon using quantitative sociolinguistic methodologies, focus on individually describing a region’s variety of Portuguese. However, the results were never systematically related to each other. Consequently, these works do not present a comprehensive overview of the production of <ei> in Brazilian Portuguese. Therefore, this systematic review gathers and unifies information dispersed in these studies, aiming to offer an overview of this optional phenomenon. The overall results demonstrate that the following contextwas the relevant linguistic variable, while the speaker’s educational level and dialect variation arethe relevant non-linguistic variables for the application of the monophthongization rule.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gabriel  Antunes de Araujo and +1Nancy Mendes Torres Vieira•  5  Sociolinguistics, Diphthongs, Systematic Reviews, Brazilian PortugueseA History of the Hebrew Language: Hebrew, a Northwest Semitic languageSave to Libraryby John Francis Elwolde•  20  Languages, Phonology, Arabic, DiphthongsReversing “drift”: Innovation and diffusion in the London diphthong systemThis study contributes to innovation and diffusion models by examining phonetic changes in London English. It evaluates Sapir&#39;s notion of “drift,” which involves “natural,” unconscious change, in relation to these changes.... moreThis study contributes to innovation and diffusion models by examining phonetic changes in London English. It evaluates Sapir&#39;s notion of “drift,” which involves “natural,” unconscious change, in relation to these changes. Investigating parallel developments in two related varieties of English enables drift to be tested in terms of the effect of extralinguistic factors. The diphthongs ofprice,mouth,face, andgoatin both London and New Zealand English are characterized by “Diphthong Shift,” a process that continued unabated in New Zealand. A new, large data set of London speech shows Diphthong Shift reversal, providing counterevidence for drift. We discuss Diphthong Shift and its “reversal” in relation to innovation, diffusion, leveling, and supralocalization, arguing that sociolinguistic factors and dialect contact override natural Diphthong Shift. Studying dialect change in a metropolis, with its large and linguistically innovative minority ethnic population, is of the utmost im...Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul Kerswill•  7  Language Variation and Change, Diphthongs, Linguistics, Language VariationReversing “drift”: Innovation and diffusion in the London diphthong systemThis study contributes to innovation and diffusion models by examining phonetic changes in London English. It evaluates Sapir&#39;s notion of “drift,” which involves “natural,” unconscious change, in relation to these changes.... moreThis study contributes to innovation and diffusion models by examining phonetic changes in London English. It evaluates Sapir&#39;s notion of “drift,” which involves “natural,” unconscious change, in relation to these changes. Investigating parallel developments in two related varieties of English enables drift to be tested in terms of the effect of extralinguistic factors. The diphthongs of price, mouth, face, and goat in both London and New Zealand English are characterized by “Diphthong Shift,” a process that continued unabated in New Zealand. A new, large data set of London speech shows Diphthong Shift reversal, providing counterevidence for drift. We discuss Diphthong Shift and its “reversal” in relation to innovation, diffusion, leveling, and supralocalization, arguing that sociolinguistic factors and dialect contact override natural Diphthong Shift. Studying dialect change in a metropolis, with its large and linguistically innovative minority ethnic population, is of the utmo...Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul Kerswill•  7  Language Variation and Change, Diphthongs, Linguistics, Language VariationSome reflections on the notion of diphthongSave to LibraryDownloadby Fernando  Sánchez Miret•  2  Phonology, DiphthongsThe Structure of the North Welsh Diphthongs in the CVCV TheorySave to LibraryDownloadby Tomasz  Czerniak•  4  Phonology, Welsh linguistics, Diphthongs, Government PhonologyThe Pronunciation Problems for Turkish Learners in Articulating of the Diphthongs in English LearningSave to LibraryDownloadby Mehmet Deniz DEMİRCİOGLU•  3  Engineering, Diphthongs, ArticulationText-directed speech enhancement using phoneme classification and feature map constrained vector quantizationSave to LibraryDownloadby John Hansen•  14  Computer Science, Diphthongs, Databases, Speech ProcessingDo Diminutives Make the Vowel Shrink?: An Account of Monophthongization in SpanishThe Iberian Peninsula had many competing dialects in the Middle Ages. Over time the dialect of the Kingdom of Castile became socially prestigious and its usage spread throughout most of the Peninsula. The expansion of Castilian Spanish... moreThe Iberian Peninsula had many competing dialects in the Middle Ages. Over time the dialect of the Kingdom of Castile became socially prestigious and its usage spread throughout most of the Peninsula. The expansion of Castilian Spanish caused many language forms to be replaced with more prestigious variants. Such has been the surmised case for the diminutive suffix -illo, formerly –iello. This study aims to show that this change in the diminutive suffix was due to the adoption of the prestigious language variety that was used by the government of Castile. I also investigate less clear cases of the monophthongization that have been purported to be related to the diminutive change. For my study I recorded the occurrences of -ie/-i of 50 word pairs in a corpus from their first appearance to 1600 AD, then I sorted the words by frequency and classified their growth patterns on a 1-5 (low-high) scale. My study shows that as the -illo forms increase on the growth scale, the -iello forms decrease. Often, by stages 4 and 5, the -iello forms fall out of use and do not reappear. I also find that this tends to be the case with words of similar form that do not have the diminutive meaning. Some of the less clear words follow this pattern, but others do not, suggesting that some of the purported cases are part of different changes. This study confirms previous research on similar word form and change, with additional attention paid to how sociolinguistic variation influences the form of words and how they change over time with respect to frequency.Save to Libraryby Oliver Whitmore•  11  Lexicology, Historical Linguistics, Art, SociolinguisticsRate of Change in Kermanshahi Kurdish Diphthongs in Word and Sentence ContextSave to LibraryDownloadby Mandana Nourbakhsh•  7  Phonetics, Kurdish Studies, Diphthongs, Acoustic PhoneticsNextLast »Related TopicsVowelsFollowFollowingExperimental PhoneticsFollowFollowingMetrical PhonologyFollowFollowingTone AccentFollowFollowingAcoustic PhoneticsFollowFollowingSociology of ArtsFollowFollowingMetrics and ProsodyFollowFollowingPhonologyFollowFollowingChristianization in ScandinaviaFollowFollowingCarolingian HistoryFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023