 The New Reynell Developmental Language Scales  - Open Research Online
  Skip to content
   
Sign in
|
Sign out
|
My Account
|
StudentHome
|
TutorHome
|
IntranetHome
|
Contact the OU
Contact the OU
Contact the OU
|
Accessibility
Accessibility
Search the OU
Courses
Postgraduate
Research
About
News & media
Business & apprenticeships
              Open Research Online - ORO
Over 50,000 publications from the broad range of OU research
Home 
Search 
Browse 
User Area 
Help 
ORO Site Accessibility
          
The New Reynell Developmental Language Scales
        
×
Copy the page URI to the clipboard
    
   Edwards, Susan; Letts, Carolyn and Sinka, Indra
   (2011).
  
The New Reynell Developmental Language Scales.
    GL Assessment Limited, London, UK.
  
  
  
  
URL: http://reynell.gl-assessment.co.uk/
Abstract
The New Reynell Developmental Language Scales (NRDLS) is a new, fourth edition of a widely-used assessment for identifying speech and language delay  and impairment  in young children and is designed for administration by speech and language therapists. NRDLS provides an assessment of key features of language and has been revised, improved and newly standardised on more than 1,200 children aged 2 years to 7 years 5 months in the UK. The revisions to the new edition have been based on recent research on child language acquisition and indicators of language impairment, together with user feedback. There are two scales in the NRDLS: one explores aspects of a child’s understanding of selected vocabulary items and grammatical features (the Comprehension Scale); and the other examines the child’s production of the same features of language (the Production Scale). Parallel sections within the scales aid comparison of a child’s comprehension and production skills. A highlight of the new edition is The Multilingual Toolkit. The Multilingual Toolkit has been produced to help adapt the concepts and materials of NRDLS to situations where there is linguistic diversity and to give guidance on how to adapt and use NRDLS with children for whom English is an additional language (EAL). It illustrates the sorts of adaptations that could be made, uses examples to indicate what an individual child’s performance might mean for assessment and also offers advice on adapting instructions, taking account of cultural differences and taking account of differences in experience and language input across cultures and linguistic groups.
Viewing alternatives
Look up in Google Scholar
No digital document available to download for this item
Item Actions
 
 
Export
You can export this page using these formats
RDF+XMLBibTeXRIOXX2 XMLRDF+N-TriplesJSONDublin CoreAtomSimple MetadataReferMETSHTML CitationASCII CitationRefMan RIS Format (UTF-8)OpenURL ContextObjectEndNoteMODSOpenURL ContextObject in SpanMPEG-21 DIDLEP3 XMLData Cite XMLRefMan RIS FormatRDF+N3
About
Item ORO ID
 
33033
                                                
                                        
Item Type
 
Other
                                                
                                                        - Other
                                                
                                        
Project Funding Details
Funded Project NameProject IDFunding BodyNot SetNot SetGL Assessment Limited
Academic Unit or School
Faculty of Wellbeing, Education and Language Studies (WELS)
Research Group
Language & Literacies
Copyright Holders
 
© 2011 GL Assessment Limited
                                                
                                        
Related URLs
http://reynell.gl-assessment.co.uk/(Other)
Depositing User
Indra Sinka
CORE (COnnecting REpositories) CORE (COnnecting REpositories) CORE (COnnecting REpositories)Recommendations
The Open University
Contact the OU
Contact the OU
Jobs
Accessibility
Cymraeg
Conditions of use
Privacy and cookies
Modern Slavery Act (pdf 149kb)
Copyright
OU Community
                                    OpenLearn: free
                                    learning
                                 
OU Students Community
                                 OU Students
                                 Association
                              
                                 OU Students
                                 Shop (including exam papers)
                              
OU Students Forums
                                 OU Students on
                                 Facebook
                              
                                 OU Students on
                                 Twitter
                              
                                 OU Students
                                 Freshers
                              
Support
                        Find your personal contacts including your tutor and student support
                        team:
                     
                        Your
                        contacts
                     
                        For help and support relating to the University's computing
                        resources:
                     
                        Computing
                        Guide
                     
Computing Helpdesk
                        For information, advice and guidance on using the library,
                        referencing styles or finding journals, ebooks and articles for your
                        assignments:
                     
                        Library help
                        and support
                     
Study
Careers
                                 Help
                                 Centre
                              
Library
Study planning and funding
Policy
Accessibility
Conditions of use
Copyright
Cymraeg
Privacy and cookies
                                 Student
                                 Charter and policies
                              
                  ©
                  .
                  All rights reserved. The Open University is incorporated by Royal Charter (RC 000391), an exempt charity in England & Wales and a charity registered in Scotland (SC 038302). The Open University is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in relation to its secondary activity of credit broking.