Great Britain - LC Linked Data Service: Authorities and Vocabularies | Library of Congress
skip navigation
Library of CongressSearch
Everything
Audio Recordings
Books/Printed Material
Films, Videos
Legislation
Manuscripts/Mixed Material
Maps
Notated Music
Newspapers
Periodicals
Personal Narratives
Photos, Prints, Drawings
Software, E-Resources
Archived Web Sites
Web Pages
3D Objects
Suggestions enabled.
Search
Search togglemenu 
Discover
Services
Visit
Education
Connect
About
Ask a Librarian
Help
Contact
Search Online Catalog
Copyright.gov
Congress.gov
The Library of Congress > Linked Data Service > LC Name Authority File (LCNAF)Great Britain
[In 1536 Wales was united with England to form England and Wales. In 1707 Scotland was united with England and Wales to form Great Britain.]
URI(s)
http://id.loc.gov/authorities/names/n79023147
Codes
e-uk---
Variants
Storbritannien
Anglia
Wielka Brytania
Nagy-Britannia
United Kingdom
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Grande-Bretagne
Angliyah
Briṭanyah
Velikobritanii︠a︡
Saharātchaʻānāčhak
Marea Britanie
Grossbritannien
Prydain Fawr
Royaume-Uni
Iso-Britannia
Yhdistynyt kuningaskunta
Förenade kungariket
Grã-Bretanha
בריטניה
イギリス
Igirisu
Briṭena
Additional Information
http://id.loc.gov/rwo/agents/n79023147
DescriptorCountry
DescriptorCountries (sovereign states)
DescriptorKingdoms (political administrative bodies)
DescriptorNations
DescriptorIsland nations
DescriptorNation
DescriptorState
DescriptorState
Associated LocaleEngland
Associated LocaleEurope
Associated LanguageEnglish
Has Demonym
Britons
Related Terms
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Exact Matching Concepts from Other Schemes
http://viaf.org/viaf/sourceID/LC%7Cn++79023147#skos:Concept 
Closely Matching Concepts from Other Schemes
Gran Bretaña 
Grande-Bretagne 
Great Britain 
United Kingdom Label from public data source Wikidata
Earlier Established Forms
England and Wales
Sources
found: Marx, F. L'administration locale en Grande-Bretagne, 1972:t.p. (Grande-Bretagne)
found: Yehude Angliyah ba-ʻet ha-ḥadashah, 1981:t.p. (Angliyah)
found: Tolkowsky, S. Yoman Tsiyoni medini, 1981:index (Briṭanyah)
found: Sŭvet za prav. i trans. na geog. imena (Bulgaria). Spisŭk na transkribiranite geografski imena ot Velikobritanii︠a︡ i Severna Irlandii︠a︡, 1983.
found: Phiphat Thaiʻārī. Nayōbāi læ krabūankān prǣrūp ... 1986:t.p. (Saharātchaʻānāčhak)
found: Dobrinescu, V.F. Diplomația României, Titulescu și Marea Britanie, 1991:t.p. (Marea Britanie)
found: Grossbritannien, c1995.
found: Adroddiad blynyddol a chyfrifon, Cymru, 1999-2000:p. 146 caption (Prydain Fawr) p. 147 caption (Great Britain)
found: La France et le Royaume-Uni dans un monde en mutation, 2005.
found: GeoNames, algorithmically matched, 2009(civil; 52°09ʹ41ʺN 000°42ʹ11ʺW)
found: Britannica academic, viewed on July 14, 2016:Act of Union (went in to effect on May 1, 2017; the union of England and Scotland under the name Great Britain) Wales (Wales was formally joined to England by the Act of Union of 1536)
found: Wikipedia, August 6, 2018(The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, commonly known as the United Kingdom (UK) or Britain, is a sovereign country in western Europe; includes the island of Great Britain, the north-eastern part of the island of Ireland and many smaller islands; consists of four countries: England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales)
found: YSO places, via WWW, August 6, 2018(United Kingdom; Iso-Britannia (Finnish), variant: Yhdistynyt kuningaskunta; Storbritannien (Swedish), variant: Förenade kungariket) - http://finto.fi/yso-paikat/en/page/p104990
found: National Library of Brazil, in VIAF, August 6, 2018(Grã-Bretanha)
found: National Library of Israel, in VIAF, August 6, 2018(בריטניה = Briṭanyah)
found: Web NDL authorities, August 6, 2018(イギリス = Igirisu) - https://id.ndl.go.jp/auth/ndlna/00871900
found: Pravāsī Hindī sāhitya aura Briṭena, 2022:t.p. (Briṭena)
General Notes
[In 1536 Wales was united with England to form England and Wales. In 1707 Scotland was united with England and Wales to form Great Britain.]
Editorial Notes
[Non-Latin script references not evaluated.]
[SUBJECT USAGE: This heading is used for works on the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which comprises England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, as well as works on the island of Great Britain. Works on the Republic of Ireland and on the island of the British Isles called Ireland are entered under Ireland. Works on the non-jurisdictional island group comprising the islands of Great Britain, Ireland, and smaller adjacent islands are entered under the subject heading British Isles.]
Instance Of
MADS/RDF Geographic
MADS/RDF Authority
SKOS Concept 
Scheme Membership(s)
Library of Congress Name Authority File
Collection Membership(s)
Names Collection - Authorized Headings
LC Names Collection - General Collection
Change Notes
1979-04-23: new
2023-08-10: revised
Alternate Formats
RDF/XML (MADS and SKOS)
N-Triples (MADS and SKOS)
JSON (MADS/RDF and SKOS/RDF)
MADS - RDF/XML
MADS - N-Triples
MADS/RDF - JSON
SKOS - RDF/XML
SKOS - N-Triples
SKOS - JSON
MADS/XML
MARC/XML
Subject Of WorksLooking for related works...Contributor To WorksLooking for related works...
Follow Us
 Email
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Youtube
 Pinterest
 Flickr
 Instagram
 iTunes
Take our survey External
Accessibility
Legal
Inspector General
External Link Disclaimer
USA.gov
Careers
Contact
Media
Donate
Shop
Congress.gov
United States Copyright Office