Animal reproduction Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Animal reproduction13,940 FollowersRecent papers in Animal reproductionTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleAdvances in cooled semen technologies: seminal plasma and semen extenderSave to LibraryDownloadby Dickson Varner•  16  Animal reproduction, Cryopreservation, Biological Sciences, PregnancyIntracellular signaling cascades induced by relaxin in the stimulation of capacitation and acrosome reaction in fresh and frozen-thawed bovine spermatozoaRelaxin is one of the 6-kDa peptide hormones, which acts as a pleiotropic endocrine and paracrine factor. Our previous studies revealed that sperm capacitating medium containing relaxin induced capacitation and acrosome reaction (AR) in... moreRelaxin is one of the 6-kDa peptide hormones, which acts as a pleiotropic endocrine and paracrine factor. Our previous studies revealed that sperm capacitating medium containing relaxin induced capacitation and acrosome reaction (AR) in fresh and frozen-thawed porcine or bovine spermatozoa. However, the intracellular signaling cascades involved with capacitation or AR induced by relaxin was unknown. Therefore, the present study was designed to investigate the intracellular signaling cascades involved with capacitation and AR induced by relaxin in fresh and frozen-thawed bovine spermatozoa. Spermatozoa were incubated in sperm Tyrode&amp;#39;s albumin lactate pyruvate (Sp-TALP) medium supplemented with (40 ng ml(-1)) or without relaxin, and subjected to evaluation of chlortetracycline staining pattern, cholesterol efflux, Ca(2+)-influx, intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and protein tyrosine phosphorylation. Capacitation and AR were increased (P&amp;lt;0.05) in both fresh and frozen-thawed spermatozoa incubated with relaxin. Cholesterol effluxes were greater in the fresh (P&amp;lt;0.01) and frozen-thawed (P&amp;lt;0.05) spermatozoa incubated with relaxin than the spermatozoa incubated without relaxin. Ca(2+)-influxes were also significantly stimulated by relaxin in the fresh (P&amp;lt;0.01) and frozen-thawed (P&amp;lt;0.05) spermatozoa. The Sp-TALP medium containing relaxin influenced the generation of intracellular cAMP in the fresh (P&amp;lt;0.01) and frozen-thawed (P&amp;lt;0.05) spermatozoa, and exhibited higher exposure of protein tyrosine phosphorylation in both sperm types than the medium devoid of relaxin. Therefore, the results postulate that relaxin exerts the intracellular signaling cascades involved with capacitation and AR through accelerating the cholesterol efflux, Ca(2+)-influx, intracellular cAMP and protein tyrosine phosphorylation in fresh and frozen-thawed bovine spermatozoa.Save to Libraryby Abdul Gaffar Miah•  19  Fluorescence Microscopy, Calcium, Animal reproduction, Signal TransductionProtamine and other proteins in sperm and seminal plasma as molecular markers of bull fertilityFertility is the most important aspect in the efforts to increase livestock populations. Protamine and various proteins in sperm and seminal plasma are the results of the molecular analysis which can be used as a marker of fertility. Each... moreFertility is the most important aspect in the efforts to increase livestock populations. Protamine and various proteins in sperm and seminal plasma are the results of the molecular analysis which can be used as a marker of fertility. Each of the proteins plays an important role in the normal function of sperm, starting from the formation of sperm structure, motility, capacitation, cell protection, acrosome reactions, successful fertilization, egg activation, and embryonic development. Finally, these molecular components can be a marker of fertility and can help to diagnose the cases of infertility/subfertility in livestock in the field.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  5  Animal reproduction, Veterinary Obstetrics and Gynecology, Reproducción animal, bull fertilityEffectiveness of Implementing Body Condition Scoring in Management and Productivity of Dairy Cattle20200216 24705 fae4jfBody Condition Scoring (BCS) is an important management tool that its implementation can bring improvement in farm, decrease incidence of disease and increase the level of farmer’s income. Additionally; body condition scoring can be used... moreBody Condition Scoring (BCS) is an important management tool that its implementation can bring improvement in farm, decrease incidence of disease and increase the level of farmer’s income. Additionally; body condition scoring can be used as an efficient tool for assessment of nutritional and health status of dairy cattle. To evaluate the BCS of every individual cows the amount of fatness and thinness of tail head ligament, hook bone, pin bone, short ribs, thurl ligaments, chine and rumps can be assessed. Directly observation and evaluation of BCS and using 3 dimensional cameras are two systems for assessing body condition score of dairy cattle. In both system evaluators give a score for fatness or thinness of every individuals range from 1 to 5 scores. Cows with BCS 1 are severely under conditioned, cows with BCS 2 are thin, cows with BCS 3 are moderate, cows with BCS 4 are fat and finally cows with BCS 5 are obese and over-conditioned which are prone to fatty syndrome of dairy cattle. Therefore; for maintaining health, improving reproduction/production and increasing level of incomes in the farm it is necessary to keep cows in recommended body condition score for each stages of lactation. During drying period and first stage of lactation BCS 3.5, in mid lactation BCS 2.75 to 3.25 and in late lactation BCS 3 are recommended. Maintaining dairy cattle in recommended BCS during different stages of lactation prevent from occurrence of metabolic diseases such as retained placenta, dystocia, milk fever, edema of udder, Mastitis, Metiritis, Ketosis, displaced abomasum and fatty liver in the dairy farms; subsequently reduction of diseases and improvement of animals’ health enhance the economic condition of dairy producers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad M A H D I Almas•  2  Animal reproduction, Animal ManagementIntrafollicular LH administration in dairy heifers treated with a GnRH agonist.The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of intrafollicular treatment (IFT) with different doses of luteinising hormone. Experimental heifers were treated with a single deslorelin implant to desensitise gonadotroph cells of the... moreThe aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of intrafollicular treatment (IFT) with differentdoses of luteinising hormone. Experimental heifers were treated with a single deslorelin implant to desensitisegonadotroph cells of the pituitary gland. Thereafter, follicular development was stimulated by exogenous FSHtreatment. Intrafollicular treatment with 10, 5, 1 and 0.01 μg LH was performed on one single follicle while otherfollicles remained untreated. Human chorionic gonadotrophine (2000 UI) was administered intravenously as acontrol. Ovulation and development of the corpus luteum occurred after all intrafollicular treatments with 10and 5 μg LH. After IFT using 1 μg of LH 75% animals (3/4) ovulated. The dose of 0.01 μg was not followed by anyovulation whereas control treatments with hCG were followed by an ovulation of the majority of follicles presentin the ovaries. In conclusion, IFT with different doses of LH (greater than 0.01 μg) is capable of inducing ovulation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Noelita  Melo de Sousa•  5  Animal Science, Animal reproduction, Reproductive endocrinology, CattleOne Conservation: the integrated view of biodiversity conservationSave to LibraryDownloadby Cristiane Schilbach Pizzutto•  2  Animal reproduction, MedicineProfils de la progestérone des vaches zébu ‘Azawak’ et taurin ‘Gourunsi’ après induction de l’œstrus aux progestagènes combinés à la prostaglandine.The progesterone concentrations of Azawak (Bos indicus, n = 6) and Gourunsi (Bos taurus, n = 5) cows after estrous induction were measured by means of radioimmunoassay (RIA). Eleven non-pregnant cows were treated by the application of... moreThe progesterone concentrations of Azawak (Bos indicus, n = 6) and Gourunsi (Bos taurus, n = 5) cows after estrous induction were measured by means of radioimmunoassay (RIA). Eleven non-pregnant cows were treated by the application of subcutaneous progestagen implants (day 1) followed by a prostaglandin F2 injection (5 mg/100 kg) at the 8th day after the insertion of the implant. At the removal of the implant (10th day of treatment), the animals were allocated in 2 groups: group I (3 Azawak’ and 3 Gourunsi cows), which received 400 I.U. of PMSG per 300 kg, and group II (3 Azawak and 2 Gourunsi cows) which did not receive any PMSG injection. In group I animals, two Gourunsi as well as two Azawak cows have been induced in estrus. In group II, only one Azawak cow was induced. In general, progesterone concentrations were higher in Azawak than in Gourunsi cows. In Azawak zebu, females that received a PMSG injection showed higher concentrations than no treated animals.Save to LibraryDownloadby Noelita  Melo de Sousa•  5  Animal Science, Animal reproduction, Reproductive endocrinology, Semen Freezing, Artificial Insemination, Synchronization of Estrus, Embryo Collection, Embryo Transfer, in Vitro Fertilization, Embryo FreezingTriple gene editing in porcine embryos using electroporation alone or in combination with microinjectionBackground and Aim: We previously developed the gene-editing by electroporation (EP) of Cas9 protein method, in which the CRISPR/Cas9 system was introduced into porcine in vitro fertilized (IVF) zygotes through EP to disrupt a target... moreBackground and Aim: We previously developed the gene-editing by electroporation (EP) of Cas9 protein method, in which the CRISPR/Cas9 system was introduced into porcine in vitro fertilized (IVF) zygotes through EP to disrupt a target gene. This method should be further developed, and a combination of EP and MI methods should be evaluated in pigs. This study aimed to determine that a combination of microinjection (MI) and EP of CRISPR/Cas9 system could increase the rates of biallelic mutation for triple-gene knockout in porcine blastocysts. We targeted the pancreatic and duodenal homeobox1 (PDX1) gene using cytoplasmic MI 1 h before or after EP, which was used to edit alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase (GGTA1) and cytidine 32 monophosphate-N-acetylneuraminic acid hydroxylase (CMAH) genes in porcine zygotes.Materials and Methods: We introduced guide RNAs targeting PDX1, GGTA1, and CMAH with the Cas9 protein into IVF zygotes (one-cell stage) through EP 10 h after the start of IVF (IVF; EP group) or in combination with MI (1 h before, MI-EP group, or after EP treatment EP-MI group) and evaluated the blastocyst formation rate and efficiency of target mutations in the resulting blastocysts.Results: Our results revealed a significant reduction in the rate of blastocyst formation in the two groups that underwent MI before and after EP (MI-EP and EP-MI group), compared with that in the groups treated with EP alone (EP group) (p=0.0224 and p<0.0001, respectively) and control (p=0.0029 and p<0.0001, respectively). There was no significant difference in the total mutation rates among the treatment groups in the resulting blastocysts. As an only positive effect of additional MI treatment, the rate of blastocysts carrying biallelic mutations in at least one target gene was higher in the MI-EP group than in the EP group. However, there was no difference in the rates of embryos carrying biallelic mutations in more than 2 target genes.Conclusion: These results indicate that although a combination of MI and EP does not improve the mutation efficiency or biallelic mutation for triple-gene knockout, MI treatment before EP is better to reduce mortality in porcine zygotic gene editing through a combination of MI and EP.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World and +6Zhao NamulaQuynh LeMaki HirataTakeshige OtoiDo LanhQingyi Lin•  8  Animal reproduction, Animal breeding and genetics, Animal Genomics, Animal biotechnologyFine structure of the gravid paruterine organ and embryonic envelopes of Mesocestoides lineatus (Cestoda)Save to LibraryDownloadby David Bruce  Conn•  13  Parasitology, Embryology, Invertebrates, Animal reproductionComportamento Sexual dos Animais DomésticosOBJETIVO O estudante explicará a conduta sexual de fêmeas e machos de diferentes espécies domésticas para detectar a fase de receptividade sexual, com a finalidade de programar de maneira adequada a monta ou a inseminação artificial. A... moreOBJETIVO O estudante explicará a conduta sexual de fêmeas e machos de diferentes espécies domésticas para detectar a fase de receptividade sexual, com a finalidade de programar de maneira adequada a monta ou a inseminação artificial. A observação da conduta sexual dos animais é indispensável para o sucesso da estação reprodutiva em uma determinada propriedade. Logo, o estudante obterá o alicerce necessário sobre os pontos teóricos e práticos a serem observados para a seleção dos animais aptos para a reprodução, além dos meios de identificação comportamental dos animais no que se refere a atividade cíclica das fêmeas. • _____INTRODUÇÃO O comportamento sexual característico de fêmeas e machos devem-se, por um lado, ao ambiente endócrino do organismo e, por outro, a uma influência da aprendizagem obtida ao longo da vida. Este comportamento é indispensável para alcançar a cópula em um momento apropriado, a fim de alcançar uma fertilização que culmina com a gestação. Conhecer as características do comportamento reprodutivo das diferentes espécies domésticas é de grande utilidade para poder determinar o momento ideal de serviço nas fêmeas, bem como para avaliar a capacidade reprodutiva dos machos; também serve para detectar algumas alterações que modificam o comportamento sexual normal. No caso das fêmeas, o comportamento sexual distintivo está limitado ao estágio do ciclo estral conhecido como estro, enquanto nos machos, a atividade reprodutiva pode acontecer a qualquer momento. Nas fêmeas e nos machos das espécies sazonais, o comportamento sexual é suprimido ou diminuído, respectivamente, durante as épocas de anestro. Existem espécies em que certas mudanças observáveis no comportamento ou na genitália são suficientes para identificar as fêmeas no cio. Outras espécies, entretanto, requerem necessariamente a presença do macho para poder expressar seu comportamento estral e somente quando ele estiver presente será possível estabelecer o momento em que a fêmea está em estro. Em determinadas propriedades, o macho reprodutor somente é utilizado para cobrir as fêmeas em cio; o trabalho de detecção das fêmeas que pode ser desgastante para o reprodutor é realizado por um outro macho conhecido como rufião. Esse animal não cobre as fêmeas, apenas é utilizado para a observação de fêmeas aptas à monta. É comum que, quando se fala em comportamento sexual, seja dada mais importância à fêmea do que ao macho, pois seu comportamento é aquele que se limita a períodos curtos, além de ser aquele que permitirá a cópula; mas os machos também têm uma participação muito ativa, pois além de atrair e detectar as fêmeas no cio, devem ser capazes de realizar a cópula com sucesso. Através da conduta sexual dos machos é observada sua eficiência reprodutiva, isto é, se ele possui a capacidade de detecção e cobrição padrão esperada de um reprodutor. Se as observações forem negativas, o ideal é a realização de um exame andrológico. • _____ETAPAS DO COMPORTAMENTO SEXUAL O comportamento sexual feminino possui três finalidades: atrair o macho (atração) por meio de sinais e da busca ativa do mesmo, estimular o macho para realizar a cópula (proceptividade), ao qual alcançam exibindo-se ante o mesmo, e facilitar a cópula (receptividade) ao permanecer imóvel, realizando a lordose (figura 1) e o movimento lateral da cauda. Figura 1: reflexo de lordose na vaca e na gata, ambas em cio. Os machos também apresentam três estágios comportamentais; na primeira, procuram ativamente as fêmeas, realizam atividades de cortejo, se aproximam da fêmea e se estimulam sexualmente (fase pré-copulatória) (figura 2). Assim que detectam uma fêmea no cio, realizam a monta, que inclui movimentos pélvicos, penetração e ejaculação (fase copulatória). No final, eles exibem um estágio de descanso e desinteresse pela fêmea no cio, conhecido como estágio pós-copulador ou refratário. Figura 2: comportamento sexual de um macho caprino ante uma fêmea. A etapa pré-copulatória consiste na aproximação do macho, no ato de fugar que é o de cheirar a vulva da fêmea. Quando a fêmea urina o macho cheira e produz o reflexo de flehmen. Por último o macho escoiceia a fêmea para depois realizar a monta na etapa copulatória.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuel Isaque Cordeiro da Silva•  8  Veterinary Medicine, Animal reproduction, Reproducción animal, ZootecniaAn immunological approach of sperm sexing and different methods for identification of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm(2017) An immunological approach of sperm sexing and different methods for identification of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm, Veterinary World, 10(5): 498-504. Abstract Separation of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm has been practiced... more(2017) An immunological approach of sperm sexing and different methods for identification of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm, Veterinary World, 10(5): 498-504. Abstract Separation of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm has been practiced for selection of desired sex of offspring to increase the profit in livestock industries. At present, fluorescence-activated cell sorter is the only successful method for separation of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm. This technology is based on the differences in DNA content between these two types of sperm and has been commercialized for bovine sperm. However, this technology still has problems in terms of high economic cost, sperm damage, and lower pregnancy rates compared to unsorted semen. Therefore, an inexpensive, convenient, and non-invasive approach for sperm sexing would be of benefit to agricultural sector. Within this perspective, immunological sperm sexing method is one of the attractive choices to separate X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm. This article reviews the current knowledge about immunological approaches, viz., H-Y antigen, sex-specific antigens, and differentially expressed proteins for sperm sexing. Moreover, this review also highlighted the different methods for identification of X-and Y-sperm.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World and +3Prabhat PaltaSHIV KUMAR YADAVChiranjeev Tikadar•  3  Animal reproduction, Animal breeding and genetics, Animal biotechnologyAltered secretion of pregnancy-associated glycoproteins during gestation in bovine somatic clonesSave to LibraryDownloadby FRED CONSTANT and +1Sylvaine Camous•  21  Animal Science, Animal reproduction, Reproductive endocrinology, Fetal developmentSeasonal and management effects on fertility of the sow: a descriptive studySave to LibraryDownloadby O. Peltoniemi•  18  Management, Time Series, Breeding, FertilityPregnancy – associated glycoproteins as a new diagnostic tool in cattle reproductionSave to LibraryDownloadby Zdzisław Gajewski•  12  Animal Science, Biology, Animal reproduction, MedicineA herd health approach to dairy cow nutrition and production diseases of the transition cowSave to LibraryDownloadby Desmond  Rice•  20  Animal Welfare, Animal reproduction, Energy Metabolism, Biological SciencesPolymorphism and allelic frequency of kappa-casein (CSN3) in different cattle breeds in BulgariaLe polymorphisme des protéines du lait attire un intérêt considérable à cause de leurs propriétés techno-fonctionnelles lors de la transformation du lait. La caséine kappa (ou CSN3) représente environ 12% des caséines totales dans le lait... moreLe polymorphisme des protéines du lait attire un intérêtconsidérable à cause de leurs propriétés techno-fonctionnelleslors de la transformation du lait. La caséine kappa (ou CSN3)représente environ 12% des caséines totales dans le lait et elleest d'un intérêt particulier en raison de sa relation établie avecla qualité fromagère du lait (Azevedo et al., 2008). L’objectif decette étude est d’analyser le polymorphisme de CSN3 dansdifférentes races bovines en Bulgarie.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yovka Popova and +1TEODORA ANGELOVA•  2  Animal reproduction, ANIAMAL GENETICSThe use of hormonal treatments to improve reproductive performance of anestrous beef cattle in tropical climatesSave to LibraryDownloadby Scott McDougall•  20  Animal Behavior, Animal reproduction, Biological Sciences, Animal FeedA comparison of BoviPure® and Percoll® on bull sperm separation protocols for IVFSave to LibraryDownloadby J. Gi•  15  Animal reproduction, Cell separation, Biological Sciences, AnimalsHormônios e Sistema Endócrino na Reprodução AnimalOBJETIVO As glândulas secretoras do corpo são estudadas pelo ramo da endocrinologia. O estudante de Veterinária e/ou Zootecnia que se preze, deverá entender os processos fisio-lógicos que interagem entre si para a estimulação das... moreOBJETIVO As glândulas secretoras do corpo são estudadas pelo ramo da endocrinologia. O estudante de Veterinária e/ou Zootecnia que se preze, deverá entender os processos fisio-lógicos que interagem entre si para a estimulação das glândulas para a secreção de vários hormônios. Os hormônios, dentro do animal, possuem inúmeras funções; sejam exercendo o papel sobre a nutrição, sobre a produção de leite e sobre a reprodução, os hormônios desempenham um primordial papel quanto ao funcionamento do animal. Nesse capítulo, o estudante identificará os hormônios relevantes para o controle reprodutivo, suas características e o uso clínico dos mesmos. INTRODUÇÃO A endocrinologia é a ciência que se encarrega do estudo do sistema endócrino: um sistema de comunicação entre as células de um organismo; esse trabalho de comunicação é compartilhado com o sistema nervoso já que ambos sistemas possuem características distintas que lhes permite complementar-se para alcançar uma adequada coordenação das funções. Em algumas ocasiões o sistema nervoso e o sistema endócrino interagem direta-mente na transmissão de uma mensagem, pelo qual se conhece como sistema neuroendó-crino. OS HORMÔNIOS A endocrinologia é a ciência que se encarrega do estudo dos hormônios e seus e-feitos. De maneira tradicional os hormônios são considerados como “substâncias secreta-das em direção a circulação pelas glândulas especializadas, e que exercem uma função sobre um órgão branco”. Essa definição, no entanto, é limitada e imprecisa. É necessário ser mais pontual, já que os hormônios não são produzidos em qualquer célula da glândula, senão nas células específicas. Por exemplo, o hormônio luteinizante (LH) é produzido pelos gonadotropos da adenohipófise e não por qualquer outro tipo de célula hipofisária. Da mesma maneira, falar de um “órgão branco” não é exato, já que os hormônios atuam somente nas células que tenham receptores específicos para esse hormônio, e não outras células do mesmo órgão; logo, falar de uma “célula branca” é mais apropriado que falar de um “órgão branco”. As células brancas do LH no testículo são as células de Leydig e as células brancas do hormônio folículo estimulante (FSH) no mesmo órgão são as células de Sertoli. Mediante o supracitado, uma definição mais apropriada de hormônio é a seguinte: “Os hormônios são reguladores biológicos, produzidos e secretados em quantidades pe-quenas pelas células vivas, que depois de viajar pelo meio extracelular atuam sobre as cé-lulas brancas, onde exercem uma ação específica”. É importante levar em conta que os hormônios somente regulam (estimulam ou inibem) funções que já existem na célula branca. Ademais, os hormônios são extraordina-riamente potentes, pelo qual se requerem quantidades muito pequenas para induzir uma resposta na célula. As concentrações circulantes da maioria dos hormônios estão na ordem de nanogramas (10-9 g) ou pictogramas (10-12 g) por mililitro. Etimologicamente o termo “endócrino” significa “secretar em direção adentro”, já que os hormônios são secretados em direção ao interior do organismo (o sangue ou o espaço intracelular), em diferença das secreções exócrinas (em direção ao exterior), que são secretadas em direção a luz de um órgão, como o intestino no caso das enzimas pan-creáticas. Algumas substâncias, sem deixar de ser hormônios, recebem uma classificação adicional em relação ao seu local de ação, ao tipo de células que lhes produzem, ou a al-guma outra característica. Agora, serão descritas algumas dessas características (figura 1). Parahormônio ou hormônio local A maioria dos hormônios são transportados pela circulação desde seu local de se-creção até a célula branca. No entanto, alguns hormônios exercem seu efeito em células adjacentes aquelas que foram produzidos, ao qual não é necessário seu transporte através da circulação geral. Esse tipo de substâncias são chamadas de parahormônios ou hormô-nios locais, e sua liberação é denominada como secreção parácrina. Um exemplo é a pros-taglandina F2 alfa (PGF₂α), que é produzida no epitélio uterino (endométrio) e provoca as contrações nas células musculares do mesmo órgão (miométrio). Deve-se tomar em conta que a mesma substância poderia se comportar em outros casos como um hormônio clássico, atuando em um órgão distinto ao local de sua produção; é o caso da mesma PGF₂α de origem endometrial quando atua sobre as células do corpo lúteo do ovário, pro-vocando sua regressão. A classificação de uma substância como hormônio ou parahormô-nio não depende de sua estrutura química, senão da relação espacial existente entre a célu-la que o produz e a célula branca.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuel Isaque Cordeiro da Silva•  7  Endocrinology, Animal reproduction, Hormones, Medicina VeterinariaFaecal steroid analysis for non-invasive monitoring of reproductive status in farm, wild and zoo animalsSave to LibraryDownloadby Schwarzenberger Franz•  5  Animal reproduction, Biological Sciences, Seasonality, New WorldEffect of the essential oil of Rosmarinus officinalis (L.) on rooster sperm motility during 4°C short-term storageAim: This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of Rosmarinus officinalis (L.) essential oil on rooster sperm motility during 4°C short-term storage. Materials and Methods: R. officinalis essential oil was analyzed using gas... moreAim: This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of Rosmarinus officinalis (L.) essential oil on rooster sperm motility during 4°C short-term storage. Materials and Methods: R. officinalis essential oil was analyzed using gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry to identify the active components. 10 of 45-week-old Hubbard commercial broilers were subjected to biweekly semen collections during 3 weeks. At each collection, sperm was pooled and divided into four aliquots and then diluted with Tris extender supplemented with 870, 87, or 8.7 µg/ml of R. officinalis essential oil, identified as treatments R, R5, and R10, respectively. Tris-based extender without any supplementation was considered as a control group. Diluted sperm was then stored at 4°C in the refrigerator and analyzed at 0, 6, 24, and 48 h using a computer-assisted sperm analyzer. Different semen parameters were measured including total motility, progressive motility, gametes velocities (straight line velocity [VSL], curvilinear velocity [VCL], and average path velocity [VAP]), amplitude of the lateral head displacement [ALH], and beat-cross frequency [BCF]. Results: The phytochemical analysis of R. officinalis essential oil revealed the presence of 25 active components including seven major molecules: Camphor (18.88%), camphene (5.17%), 1,8-cineole (7.85%), β-thujene (13.66%), α-thujene (4.87%), chrysanthenone (12.05%), and β-cubenene (7.97%). The results showed a beneficial effect of R. officinalis essential oil on sperm cells motility, particularly when using the lowest concentrations, 8.7 and 87 µg/ml. Progressive motility and gametes velocities (VCL, VSL, and VAP), materializing the quality of gametes motility, showed highly statistically significant values (p<0.01) in 8.7 and 87 µg/ml treatments, especially from 6 h of storage at 4°C. Conversely, the highest concentration (870 µg/ml) showed harmful effects with a total spermicidal activity after 24 h of storage. Conclusion: The current results revealed the positive impact of R. officinalis essential oil on rooster sperm at 4°C short-term storage probably through fighting against oxidative stress and cold shock damages.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  5  Animal reproduction, Veterinary Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rosmarinus officinalis, Artificial inseminationAnatomia e Fisiologia do Sistema Reprodutivo dos Animais DomésticosConhecer a anatomia de um aparelho representa a base para seu estudo amplo e profundo, além de facilitar a compreensão de seu funcionamento. Por isso é importante o conhecimento da anatomia funcional do aparelho reprodutor, já que sua... moreConhecer a anatomia de um aparelho representa a base para seu estudo amplo e profundo, além de facilitar a compreensão de seu funcionamento. Por isso é importante o conhecimento da anatomia funcional do aparelho reprodutor, já que sua análise permite fixar sólidas bases para o estudo do fenômeno pelo qual se perpetuam as espécies: a reprodução. Nos subtemas compreendidos referentes ao macho e a fêmea, descreve-se cada um dos órgãos que formam o aparelho reprodutor e as suas diferenças entre espécies, assinalando-se em cada um deles a sua função. Obviamente, a parte que trata do funcionamento não é abordada de uma forma muito ampla. Para facilitar o estudo do aparelho reprodutor do macho, seus órgãos podem ser classificados de acordo com sua localização anatômica, em órgãos genitais internos (que compreendem os ductos deferentes, as glândulas acessórias e a uretra pélvica) e órgãos genitais externos (testículos com seu epidídimo). O testículo também foi considerado como órgão sexual primário, enquanto os ductos excretores, glândulas acessórias, pênis e prepúcio são considerados órgãos sexuais secundários. O aparelho reprodutor da fêmea é dividido em ovários e órgãos tubulares (útero, oviduto, cérvix, vagina e vulva). 2.2 APARELHO REPRODUTOR DO MACHO Para avaliar a capacidade reprodutiva dos machos, é primordial conhecer a anatomia e a fisiologia do aparelho reprodutor. Os órgãos genitais incluem testículos, epidídimos, canais deferentes, ampolas deferentes, uretra, glândulas acessórias (próstata, glândulas seminais e glândulas bulbouretrais), pênis e prepúcio, que apresentam diferenças entre as espécies domésticas (tabela 1). Sabe-se que o sistema genital masculino compreende os órgãos envolvidos no desenvolvimento, no amadurecimento, no transporte e no armazenamento dos gametas masculinos (espermatozoides). Ele consiste em um par de testículos, o ducto contorcido do epidídimo, o ducto deferente, a uretra e as glândulas genitais acessórias. Os testículos produzem esperma e hormônios. O epidídimo armazena espermatozoides durante seu amadurecimento antes de passarem para o ducto deferente e pela uretra. As glândulas acessórias também liberam suas secreções na uretra e contribuem para o volume do sêmen. A parte distal da uretra forma o caminho combinado para a passagem tanto da urina como do sêmen. O pênis é o órgão copulador masculino e deposita sêmen no trato reprodutor feminino. As figuras 1-5 apresentam as diferenciações quanto ao sistema genital das espécies domésticas. Conhecer a anatomia dos órgãos reprodutivos é essencial para poder identificar as patologias que possam afetar a capacidade reprodutiva, bem como para entender as diferenças de manejo ao empregar algumas biotecnologias reprodutivas aplicadas aos animais domésticos. Ao longo do texto, a espécie bovina será utilizada como modelo e serão feitas as observações correspondentes às diferenças com as outras espécies. Os órgãos genitais da fêmea incluem os órgãos genitais internos (ovários, ovidutos, útero, cérvix, vestíbulo e vagina) e os órgãos genitais externos (lábios vulvares e clitóris) (tabela 3). Os ovários produzem tanto gametas femininos quanto hormônios. As tubas uterinas pares capturam os oócitos liberados pelos ovários e os transportam para o útero, onde o ovo fertilizado é mantido. A vagina serve como órgão copulatório e, juntamente com sua continuação, o vestíbulo, como canal de parto e passagem para excreção urinária. REFERÊNCIAS BIBLIOGRÁFICAS BOETA, M. et al. Fisiología reproductiva de los animales domésticos. México: FMVZ – UNAM, 2018. DERIVAUX, Jules; BARNABÉ, Renato Campanarut. Reprodução dos animais domésticos. Zaragoza: Acribia, 1980. DUKES, Henry Hugh; SWENSON, Melvin J.; REECE, William O. Dukes fisiologia dos animais domésticos. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Guanabara Koogan, 1996. DYCE, Keith M.; WENSING, Cornelius JG; SACK, Wolfganf O. Tratado de anatomia veterinária. Elsevier Brasil, 2004. HAFEZ, Elsayed Saad Eldin; HAFEZ, B. Reprodução animal. São Paulo: Manole, 2004. HOLY, Lubos; MARTÍNEZ JÚSTIZ, G. Colab. Biología de la reproducción bovina. Havana: Revolucionária, 1975. KÖNIG, Horst Erich; LIEBICH, Hans-Georg. Anatomia dos Animais Domésticos-: Texto e Atlas Colorido. Porto Alegre: Artmed Editora, 2016. MIES FILHO, Antonio. Reprodução dos animais. Porto Alegre: Sulina, 1987.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuel Isaque Cordeiro da Silva•  7  Physiology, Animal reproduction, Anatomy, Medicina VeterináriaReproducción sexual en animales.The present article is an explication for wide scale publication, of the process of reproduction in the animal world from the protazoas to the mamals. The similarity of reproduction in the zoological world is manifested to the reader.... moreThe present article is an explication for wide scale publication, of the process of reproduction in the animal world from the protazoas to the mamals.The similarity of reproduction in the zoological world is manifested to the reader. Essentially, the basic and intimate mechanism of the reproductive process is the same in all animals. It only varies accidentally as a response to the adaptation to distinct modes of life. The principal moment of the reproductive process is the appearance of the new individual, in the form of a zygote or egg, which is formed by the union of the gametes. From the first moment, it has its own genetic information which makes it distinct from its progenitors. In the majorityof animals, it begins an embryonic development, in independence from its parents. Only in afew cases, the embryo, by adaptation to a determined type of environment, is dependent upon the mother.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rafael Jordana and +1Luis  Herrera Mesa•  3  Zoology, Animal reproduction, Reproductive BiologyReproductive health management for camelsThis lecture explains the reproduction in camel and the problems of reproduction in camelsSave to LibraryDownloadby Govind Narayan Purohit•  3  Reproduction, Animal reproduction, CamelsThe role of pheromones and biostimulation in animal reproductionSave to LibraryDownloadby emmanuel oyedipe•  20  Reproduction, Pheromones, Animal reproduction, RodentiaScrotal circumference: A predictor of testosterone concentration and certain attributes of seminal vesicles influencing buffalo male fertilityAim: The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship of scrotal circumference (SC) with plasma testosterone, seminal vesicles (SVs) weight, and its secretion as measurable indicators of fertility and also to sequence and establish... moreAim: The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship of scrotal circumference (SC) with plasma testosterone, seminal vesicles (SVs) weight, and its secretion as measurable indicators of fertility and also to sequence and establish phylogenetic relatedness of certain SV protein genes with other species as such integrated approach is lacking. Materials and Methods: Altogether, 59 apparently healthy male buffaloes sacrificed at slaughterhouse were selected (irrespective of breed) for measuring SC and collecting blood and paired SVs. The SC was measured at greater curvature using soft thread. In the present study, blood plasma testosterone, cholesterol, protein, and glucose in addition to SV fructose, citric acid and proteins in SV fluid were also estimated. The SV tissue was fixed in RNAlater for RNA extraction.Male buffaloes were categorized as per total SV weight into Group I (<5.0 g), Group II (5.0-7.84 g), and Group III (>8.0 g) and dentitions-I (≤18 months), II (18-24 months), and III (≥24 months) to assess the effect of weight and dentition age on SC, SV weight, and its certain secretions. Data were analyzed using linear model procedure including Tukey HSD test and Pearson's correlation coefficient. Variance inflation and condition index were also used to assess multicollinearity. Results: Gross and histomorphological evaluation of SVs did not show any abnormality. Macronutrients (plasma protein, glucose, and cholesterol) showed non-significant (p>0.05) variation between groups. The SC and SV weight varied significantly (p<0.05) with a significant positive relationship with plasma testosterone, SV protein, fructose, and citric acid. In addition, testosterone concentration also showed increasing trend from Groups I to III but increased significantly (p<0.05) from Group II to III with positive and significant correlations with SV protein, fructose, and citric acid similar to SV weight and SC. Binders of sperm protein (BSP1, 3, and 5) genes (full length) were sequenced and established an evolutionary relationship which is lacking in buffalo. Conclusion: The present findings established a significant positive correlation of SC with that of other fertility parameters related to SVs weight and its secretions: Fructose, citric acid, and protein (inclusive of BSPs sequenced full length), and testosterone. Therefore, the present integrated approach along with certain semen quality attributes reflecting epididymis function could be used as a predictive fertility marker for grading and selection of breeding bulls and their progenies to develop outstanding bull mother farm.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  4  Animal reproduction, Gynecology and Obstetrics, Obstetrics and gynecology, Veterinary AndrologyMedical and Surgical Management of a Dystocia Because of Foetopelvic Disproportion in an African Lioness (Panthera Leo)Save to LibraryDownloadby Jaime Espinosa García San Román•  9  Veterinary Medicine, Animal reproduction, Veterinary Surgery and Radiology, Medicina VeterináriaStrategies de la reproduction chez les animaux d’élevageSave to LibraryDownloadby AMEUR AMEUR  Abdelkader•Animal reproductionReproducción de Los Animales Domésticos- C.galina y J.ValenciaSave to LibraryDownloadby Vet Help•  8  Veterinary Medicine, Animal reproduction, Veterinary, Medicina VeterináriaEl Ciclo Estral de La Vaca Diagnostico Fotográfico- M.SanchezSave to LibraryDownloadby Vet Help•  10  Veterinary Medicine, Animal reproduction, Medicina Veterinária, Medicina VeterinariaMaternal recognition of pregnancy in some domestic animals: A reviewIntroduction: Maternal Recognition of Pregnancy (MRP) is a physiological process whereby the conceptus signals its presence to the maternal organism and prolongs the lifespan of the corpus luteum. MRP is critical to homeostasis of... moreIntroduction: Maternal Recognition of Pregnancy (MRP) is a physiological process whereby the conceptus signals its presence to the maternal organism and prolongs the lifespan of the corpus luteum. MRP is critical to homeostasis of pregnancy. Many cases of pregnancy losses have been attributed to the failure of MRP. One of such cases is early embryonic mortality, a leading cause of infertility in animals. The purpose of this review is to highlight the general mechanisms of MRP and the specie-specific differences in some domestic animals. Method: A search was conducted with the exploration and filtration of databases and repositories of Google Scholars, Scopus, PubMed and ResearchGate for scientific publications. Results: This article explains mechanisms of MRP in different domestic species of animals. Significance: The concept would provide a better insight in understanding a major aetiology to pregnancy losses, which has an implication on production and the agrarian economy. ABSTRACT Article history:Save to LibraryDownloadby Basiru Afisu•  5  Animal reproduction, Pregnancy, Early embryonic death, maternal recognition of pregnancyArthur's Veterinary Reproduction and ObstetricsSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•  2  Animal reproduction, Veterinary ReproductionImplications of sperm heat shock protein 70-2 in bull fertilityHeat shock protein 70 (HSP70) is one of the most abundant chaperone proteins. Their function is well documented in facilitating the protein synthesis, translocation, de novo folding, and ordering of multiprotein complexes. HSP70 in bovine... moreHeat shock protein 70 (HSP70) is one of the most abundant chaperone proteins. Their function is well documented in facilitating the protein synthesis, translocation, de novo folding, and ordering of multiprotein complexes. HSP70 in bovine consists of four genes: HSP70-1, HSP70-2, HSP70-3, and HSP70-4. HSP70-2 was found to be involved in fertility. Current knowledge implicates HSP70-2 in sperm quality, sperm capacitation, sperm–egg recognition, and fertilization essential for bull reproduction. HSP70-2 is also involved in the biological processes of spermatogenesis, as it protects cells from the effects of apoptosis and oxidative stress. Fertilization success is not only determined by the amount of sperm found in the female reproductive tract but also by the functional ability of the sperm. However, subfertility is more likely to be associated with changes in sperm molecular dynamics not detectable using conventional methods. As such, molecular analyses and omics methods have been developed to monitor crucial aspects of sperm molecular morphology that are important for sperm functions, which are the objectives of this review.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  6  Animal reproduction, Animal biotechnology, Veterinary Obstetrics and Gynecology, Heat Shock ProteinsImpact of polyherbal formulation oral administration on the estrus response, luteal activity, and oxidative stress in postpartum dairy cows with ovarian subfunctionBackground and Aim: The reproductive performance of dairy cows is of a high economic value to maintain efficient and sustainable productivity. Postpartum anestrus is one of the major infertility problems that cause limitation of dairy cow... moreBackground and Aim: The reproductive performance of dairy cows is of a high economic value to maintain efficient and sustainable productivity. Postpartum anestrus is one of the major infertility problems that cause limitation of dairy cow reproductive performance and productivity. The previous studies have reported using a polyherbal formulation for different purposes, including reproductive performance. This study was conducted to examine the efficacy of polyherbal formulation administration on the reproductive performance of cows and to establish the oral administration of polyherbal formulations as a safe, effective, and economic treatment for dairy cows with postpartum anestrus due to nutritional disorders, negative energy balance, high milk production, and/or heat stress.Materials and Methods: A total of 14 dairy cows with postpartum anestrus were randomly divided into two groups, which were subjected to oral administration of distilled water that served as the control (Ctrl; n=5) or polyherbal treatment (polyherbal treated; n=9) for two shots of treatment (each for 3 successive days) with a 10-day interval. Blood sampling and ultrasonography were performed before treatment and after the first and second shots of treatment. Progesterone (P4) assay was also performed.Results: The estrus induction rate was 66.7% after the first shot of treatment in the polyherbal-treated group, which increased significantly to 88.9% after the second shot of treatment, compared with the Ctrl group (20%). The estrus response was confirmed by ultrasonography and P4 hormone assay, wherein the polyherbal treatment significantly increased the P4 concentration in the polyherbal-treated group after the second shot of treatment compared to that before treatment and in the Ctrl group at all time points. On pregnancy diagnosis, the treated dairy cows showed conception rates of 66.7% and 20.0% in the polyherbal-treated and Ctrl groups, respectively. In contrast, the concentration of malondialdehyde, an oxidative stress marker, and the total antioxidant capacity remained unchanged between both groups before and after treatment.Conclusion: The polyherbal formulation containing tubers of C. rotundus, M. pterygosperma, rhizome of Z. officinale, and A. cepa has the potential to induce estrus response and luteal activity in dairy cows and is a possible treatment for ovarian inactivity in dairy farms.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World and +1Ahmed Hassaneen•  8  Dairy Science, Medicinal Plants, Animal reproduction, TheriogenologyAttitudes and preferences of traditional farmers toward reproductive biotechnology application for improved indigenous pig production in ZambiaBackground and Aim: Pig production remains crucial to the livelihood of farmers in Zambia. However, low production continues to undermine efforts to reduce animal protein deficit; hence, the need emerges to improve production through... moreBackground and Aim: Pig production remains crucial to the livelihood of farmers in Zambia. However, low production continues to undermine efforts to reduce animal protein deficit; hence, the need emerges to improve production through biotechnology. To contribute to the prediction of their acceptance, this study assessed the attitudes and preferences of traditional farmers toward reproductive biotechnologies by exploring the socio-demographic characteristics of farmers. Materials and Methods: The study conducted a cross-sectional descriptive survey that employed a mixed-methods design with a qualitative-quantitative methodological triangulation. Quantitative data were obtained from 622 respondents using a questionnaire, whereas seven focus group discussions (FGDs) were conducted to obtain qualitative data. Descriptive statistics and thematic analysis were used to analyze quantitative and qualitative data, respectively. Results: The majority (65.1%) of the respondents were low-income ...Save to LibraryDownloadby abigaba rubaijaniza•  10  Animal reproduction, Animal Husbandry, Animal biotechnology, Pig FarmingAnatomy of the female reproductive system of Rusa deer (Rusa timorensisThe study aims to present baseline data on the reproductive anatomy of a poorly known tropical deer species, Rusa deer (Rusa timorensis). The anatomy of female reproductive system is described using seven uniparous hinds, aged between... moreThe study aims to present baseline data on the reproductive anatomy of a poorly known tropical deer species, Rusa deer (Rusa timorensis). The anatomy of female reproductive system is described using seven uniparous hinds, aged between four and eight years. The various reproductive structures were studied via s t a n d a r d d e s c r i p t i v e methods. There was a significant difference in the length and width of both right and left ovaries. The left ovary was slightly larger than the right ovary which indicates that it is physiologically more active. The results of the study showed that the anatomy of female reproductive system of R. timorensis was similar to that observed in domestic ruminants except that the uterus did not have an interconual ligament and this implies that the uterine horns are anchored in such a way that sperm deposited into only one uterine horn of the Rusa deer will be transported to the other uterine horn (interconual transport). Unlike the red brocket deer and pampas deer, the cervix of R. timorensis was characterized by six cervical rings projecting into the cervical canal. This feature should be taken into account when designing effective instrumentation and techniques for transcervical passage of semen during artificial insemination in this species. The results from this study have provided baseline data on the reproductive anatomy of this vulnerable species, and the knowledge generated can be useful in the development of appropriate reproductive techniques in order to increase its population in captivity and also enable easy detection of its reproductive anomalies, thus strategies to propagate and conserve the species can established.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zubair Jaji and +1Bukar Umaru•  21  Comparative Anatomy, Veterinary Pathology, Wildlife Biology, ReproductionImproving ovarian stimulation protocols for IVF in baboons: lessons from humans and rhesus monkeysSave to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Atunga  Nyachieo, PhD•  15  Ultrasound, Animal reproduction, Biological Sciences, PapioAnovulation, Delayed Ovulation and Luteal InsufficiencyOvulation in the cow occurs 10 to 12 hours after the end of behavioral estrus and 18 to 26 hours after the ovulatory LH peak. During estrus and after the end of estrus, several follicles undergo development but usually only one, it... moreOvulation in the cow occurs 10 to 12 hours after the end of behavioral estrus and 18 to 26 hours after the ovulatory LH peak. During estrus and after the end of estrus, several follicles undergo development but usually only one, it ovulates & the other follicles regress and become atretic. The consequences for fertility of an ovulatory defect are twofold ; either the oocyte is not liberated and hence cannot be fertilized, or it is liberated too late so that the spermatozoa are now incapable of fertilization, or the oocyte has aged and is not capable of normal development. Ovulatory defects occur due to endocrine deficiency or imbalance, failure of the development of hormone receptors at the target tissue or mechanical factors. If the quantity of pituitary hormone released is insufficient, or its timing is incorrect, then ovulation is delayed or fails to occur. In a minority of cases, because of extensive lesions involving adhesion of the ovarian bursa to the surface of the ovary, the physical process of ovulation is prevented.Save to LibraryDownloadby DR.SANJAY PARMAR•Animal reproductionAtlas de Reproduccion Canina- C.SorribasSave to LibraryDownloadby Vet Help•  10  Reproduction, Animal reproduction, Veterinary, DogsEndocrinologia da Reprodução AnimalOBJETIVO Com essa unidade, o objetivo é apresentar o funcionamento do sistema endócrino e o controle que ele exerce sobre os processos reprodutivos. Logo, o estudante com-preenderá que os processos endócrinos de um organismo não podem... moreOBJETIVOCom essa unidade, o objetivo é apresentar o funcionamento do sistema endócrino e o controle que ele exerce sobre os processos reprodutivos. Logo, o estudante com-preenderá que os processos endócrinos de um organismo não podem estar dissociados do que ocorre com o restante do organismo nem das alterações do entorno. Por essa razão, o sistema endócrino e o sistema nervoso se comunicam entre si, formando em seu conjunto o sistema neuroendócrino.Sendo assim, o intuito desse trabalho é descrever as funções dos órgãos endó-crinos mais importantes relacionados a reprodução, assim como o papel dos principais hormônios produzidos em cada um desses. •___INTRODUÇÃOOs processos reprodutivos requerem uma estreita coordenação entre diferentes ór-gãos do aparelho reprodutivo, além de estarem acompanhados por mudanças metabólicas que permitem a adaptação do animal aos requerimentos de cada etapa dos processos que nele realizam-se. A reprodução deve ser capaz de responder ou ajustar-se as condições externas, como a época do ano, a disponibilidade de nutrientes, além da presença ou au-sência de animais do sexo oposto. Essa coordenação e adaptação são alcançados graças a comunicação endócrina entre diversas células e órgãos. •___HIPOTÁLAMOO hipotálamo é um órgão central do sistema neuroendócrino. Está constituído por uma região do sistema nervoso central estrategicamente localizado para receber informa-ção de todos os órgãos dos sentidos; direta ou indiretamente recebe projeções provenien-tes da retina, dos bulbos olfatórios primários e secundários, o ouvido, a pele e os órgãos internos. Ademais, o hipotálamo possui receptores hormonais, receptores para substân-cias como a glicose e os ácidos graxos, barorreceptores para registrar a pressão sanguínea, e os termo-receptores para a temperatura corporal.Pode-se afirmar que o hipotálamo conhece o que está acontecendo dentro e fora do organismo, e consequentemente encontra-se em uma posição específica para tomar decisões transcendentais na vida do animal. Além disso, o hipotálamo regula funções vitais como a fome, a sede e o sono. Também é um órgão encarregado de regular uma função que é essencial para a sobrevivência de qualquer espécie que nada mais é do que a reprodução e a perpetuação da espécie. Apesar de sua grande importância, o hipotálamo representa uma pequena porcen-tagem de massa encefálica. É constituído por núcleos que são grupamentos de neurônios especializados. A maioria dos núcleos são bilaterais, situados um de cada lado do tercer ventrículo que é uma cavidade pequena que contém líquido cerebrospinal que ocupa o centro do hipotálamo. Em alguns casos os neurônios estão mais dispersos, ao qual em lugar de se denominar núcleos se alcunha de áreas hipotalâmicas (figura 1).Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuel Isaque Cordeiro da Silva•  7  Endocrinology, Veterinary Medicine, Animal reproduction, Reproductive endocrinologyRUMINANT & CAMELID REPRODUCTIVE ULTRASONOGRAPHY 1st Edition 2010-BLACKWELL PUBLISHING CURIOUS?....DIG IT. THANKS TO BLACKWELL PUBLISHINGSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•Animal reproductionCorpo lúteo cíclico e gestacional: revisão Cyclic and gestational corpus luteum: reviewResumo Esta revisão objetiva uma abordagem das etapas de formação, atividade e regressão do corpo lúteo (CL) cíclico e gestacional. O corpo lúteo é uma estrutura glandular transitória, que inicia seu desenvolvimento no ovário... moreResumo Esta revisão objetiva uma abordagem das etapas de formação, atividade e regressão do corpo lúteo (CL) cíclico e gestacional. O corpo lúteo é uma estrutura glandular transitória, que inicia seu desenvolvimento no ovário imediatamente após a ovulação, sob ação de um conjunto de fatores mitogênicos, angiogênicos e de crescimento, os quais agem sobre as células foliculares remanescentes determinando a luteinização. Por outro lado, a regressão do corpo lúteo depende de aumentos dos pulsos de PGF2α pelas células endometriais, e a transformação do corpo lúteo cíclico em gestacional depende de um ajuste entre a produção de substâncias luteotróficas e luteolíticas por início do processo de gestação. Palavras-chave: corpo lúteo, luteogênese, luteólise. Abstract This review aims to approach the stages of formation, activity and regression of cyclic and gestational Corpus luteum (CL). The CL is a transitional glandular structure, which starts its development in the ovary immediately afte...Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Salles•  2  Zoology, Animal reproductionHormones & Reproduction Vertebrates Mammals Vol.5 (2011).pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•  33  Veterinary Medicine, Animal Science, Sexual and Reproductive Health, Animal StudiesStudy of fecal glucocorticoid metabolites in captive Asian elephants in Kanchanaburi Province, ThailandBackground and Aim: Over the past two decades, the number of elephant camps in Thailand has increased considerably, and captive elephants have become more popular within the tourism industry. Tourist activities involving elephant... moreBackground and Aim: Over the past two decades, the number of elephant camps in Thailand has increased considerably, and captive elephants have become more popular within the tourism industry. Tourist activities involving elephant exhibitions and trekking potentially affect animal health and welfare. This study aimed to investigate the relationships between a novel stress biomarker, fecal glucocorticoid metabolites (fGCM), and various factors (sex, age, weather season, tourist season, and elephant usage patterns), monitoring the fGCM concentration during and after trekking activities ceased.Materials and Methods: Fecal samples of 20 captive Asian elephants from two camps in Kanchanaburi Province were collected monthly for 1 year. The fGCM concentrations were measured using enzyme immunoassay and evaluated relative to individual demography, season, and tourist trekking activity. The mean differences of fGCMs concentrations were compared by analysis of variance and t-test statistics according to data types with p<0.5.Results: Significant differences in mean fGCM concentrations were found between age categories (p=0.001), trekking and non-trekking animals (p=0.039), and during and after trekking (p=0.023). The mean fGCM concentration of elephants aged during 0-44 years (136.7 ng/g) was significantly higher than for animals over 44 years old (107.7 ng/g), and the elephant trekking group (144.9 ng/g) was significantly higher than the other group (124.7 ng/g). Within the trekking group, the mean fGCM concentrations gradually declined to 129.13 ng/g within 8 months of trekking cessation.Conclusion: Elephant's ages and activities co-influenced the variance of fGCM concentrations. In addition, permanent tourist activity, especially trekking, can increase elephant stress. This study's findings can be applied to the health status monitoring of captive elephants and result in improved animal welfare.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World and +1AOMAAM AS•  7  Animal reproduction, Wildlife Diseases, Veterinary Parasitology, Wildlifereproduksi kelinciSave to LibraryDownloadby aluysius mandung•Animal reproductionMetabolic & Endocrinology Physiology 3rd Ed (2012).pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•  62  Endocrinology, Evolutionary Biology, Physiology, Health PsychologyA diluent containing coconut water, fructose, and chicken egg yolk increases rooster sperm quality at 5°CAim: The present study was conducted to evaluate the quality of rooster sperm at 5°C after treatment with a diluent containing coconut water, fructose, and chicken egg yolk and stored the semen sample at 5°C. Materials and Methods: Ten... moreAim: The present study was conducted to evaluate the quality of rooster sperm at 5°C after treatment with a diluent containing coconut water, fructose, and chicken egg yolk and stored the semen sample at 5°C.Materials and Methods: Ten semen samples from 10 healthy roosters were subjected to four different treatments. For the treatments, 0.2 ml fresh semen with a sperm concentration of 5.2X109 cell/ml was mixed with T0 (no diluent), T1 (0.34 ml coconut water and 6 μl fructose), T2 (0.274 ml coconut water, 0.12 ml egg yolk, and 6 μl fructose), and T3 (0.34 ml egg yolk and 6 μl fructose) solutions. Each treated solution was stored at 5°C and evaluated both macroscopically and microscopically. Macroscopically, semen volume, pH, and sperm concentration were evaluated. The microscopic sperm characteristics examined included total motility (i.e., rapid, medium, or slow), progressive and non-progressive motility, viability, and spermatozoa abnormalities noted at different storage times. The results showed that spermatozoa motility was under 40%.Results: The results indicated that sperm viability significantly affected (p<0.05). The highest mean value of sperm viability on day 7 of storage was found after treatment with the T2 solution (46.100±0.5677%). Similarly, spermatozoa abnormalities were significantly lower after treatment with the T2 solution (6.680±1.702%).Conclusion: The addition of a diluent containing coconut water, egg yolk, and fructose helped in the better preservation spermatozoa motility, as well as viability for up to 7 days when the semen samples were stored at 5°C.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  5  Animal reproduction, Cryopreservation, Veterinary Obstetrics and Gynecology, Reproductive Physiology and Artificial InseminationRecent Advances in Nutrition- Reproduction Interactions in Dairy AnimalsReproduction is the luxury function of mammalian bodiesand has got the last priority in nutrients partitioning in dairy animals, after lactation and health.Appropriate intake of nutrients, associated with desirable concentrations of blood... moreReproduction is the luxury function of mammalian bodiesand has got the last priority in nutrients partitioning in dairy animals, after lactation and health.Appropriate intake of nutrients, associated with desirable concentrations of blood metabolites, especially glucose, is needed for a normal reproductive cyclicity. The interaction between reproduction and nutrition becomes critical during the postpartum periods in high yielding dairy animals when most of the nutrients are utilized for lactogenesis and little are left for supporting reproductive activities.The primary objective of rearing dairy animals has been the production of milk. Selective breeding has been in practice and lactation has been considered as the most important economic trait. The two traits of lactation and reproductive efficiency have been found to be associated with each other; hence the selection for milk yield also led to enhanced fertility. However, beyond certain levels of milk production the drain of nutrients from the circulating blood results in cessation of reproductive process. The declining fertility with the enhanced lactation yield during the last several decades has been found both under total mixed ration in the USA as well as pastoral feeding in the New Zealand. The postpartum initiation of lactation coincides with a decreased feed intake and the animals enter into a state of negative energy balance (NEBAL). The energy deficiency is met out by the process of lipolysis, leading to loss of body condition score (BCS). Pulsatile release of LH and response of the follicle to LH surge are hindered. Such a condition leads to a delayed ovulation and lowered conception rates. Plasma levels of insulin-like growth factor-I are directly related to energy status and is critical to ovarian follicular development. During the early NEBAL period, the ability of follicles to produce sufficient estradiol for ovulation seems to depend on the availability of insulin and IGF-I in serum and the changing energy balance profile. Leptin has been discovered as a product of white adipose tissues, reflecting the energy status of the body. Leptin concentrations are lower during a declining BCS and vice versa; being favorable during the rising concentrations. Hence leptin has been called as the permissive factor for the reproductive process. The animals get out of NEBAL when the nutrients intake exceeds utilization and the BCS starts raising. It leads to resumption of ovarian cyclicity and conception. Poor nutrition and weight loss in cattle causes a decrease in blood progesterone concentrations. One possibility is that greater milk production in dairy cattle is negatively affecting blood progesterone concentrations and causinginfertilityindairycows. Lower plasma concentrations of progesterone have been reported in cows with higher milk yield. There are several potential mechanisms for decreased progesterone in highproducing cows. Progesterone concentrations in blood are determined by rates of secretion, metabolism and clearance through liver. In dairy buffaloes, crude protein intake (CPI) was positively correlated with the postpartum estrusand ovulationintervals (POI). CPI excess torequirements was lower in animals which expressed oestrus than those which remained anoestrus. Prepartummetabolizable energy (ME) intake was higher in animals observed in oestrous than those remaining anoestrous. The animals resuming to oestrus had a narrow and almost constant CP/ME ratio, while the anoestrus animals had a widely fluctuating ratio, ranging from 10.7 to 13.1 g/MJ. CP/ME was related positively with POI. Increasing energy intake increased BCS (r=0.16) and duration of expulsion of placenta(r=0.19) and discharge of lochia (r=0.24) but decreasedpostpartum ovulation interval (r=-0.27, p<0.01).Reproductive process is regulated by the hypothalamus-pituitary gonadal axis and it functions only if the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal (or stress) axis is silent. Dairy cattle face the challenge of stress associated with higher metabolic rates, lactation, higher ambient temperatures and malnutrition. Oxidative stress results due to imbalance between the production of reactive oxygen species in higher quantities than their clearance through the antioxidant system. It causes damage to the cellular function, decreasing the production of hormones and gene products boosting the reproductive process. Antioxidants nutritional supplementation helps the dairy animals in maintaining reproductive activities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Muhammad Subhan Qureshi•  16  Meat Science, Dairy Science, Stress physiology, Animal reproductionSTUDY ON MICRO AND MACROSCOPIC CHARACTERISTICS OF KUNDHI BUFFALO SEMENSave to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Asmatullah Kaka•Animal reproductionPeranan Lemak Terhadap Reproduksi Ternak Ruminansia dan Ternak Unggassemua nutrisi memiliki peranan tersendiri didalam tubuh, baik itu sebagai zat pembentuk kerangka tubuh, pertumbuhan hingga reproduksi. pentingnya bagian reproduksi untuk kelangsungan hidup seekor ternak, diperlukan berbagai nutrisi di... moresemua nutrisi memiliki peranan tersendiri didalam tubuh, baik itu sebagai zat pembentuk kerangka tubuh, pertumbuhan hingga reproduksi. pentingnya bagian reproduksi untuk kelangsungan hidup seekor ternak, diperlukan berbagai nutrisi di dalam tubuh, di antaranya adalah lemak. sebagai penghasil energi tertinggi.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rhahma Lukmana•  4  Animal reproduction, Animal Husbandry, Scienses, LipidNextLast »Related TopicsVeterinary ScienceFollowFollowingAnimal breeding and geneticsFollowFollowingAgricultural BiotechnologyFollowFollowingVeterinary MedicineFollowFollowingMedicina VeterináriaFollowFollowingAnimal HusbandryFollowFollowingEquineFollowFollowingToxicopathologyFollowFollowingRuminant NutritionFollowFollowingLivestock Waste ManagementFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023