(PDF) Cecconi N. 2019, Pavimenti e mosaici, in G. Marginesu (a cura di), STUDI SULL’ECONOMIA DELLE TECHNAI IN GRECIA DALL’ETÀ ARCAICA ALL’ELLENISMO, 27-38 | Niccolò Cecconi - Academia.edu
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
Log InSign UpLog InSign UpmoreJob BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyrightWe're Hiring!Help Centerless
Download Free PDFDownload Free PDFCecconi N. 2019, Pavimenti e mosaici, in G. Marginesu (a cura di), STUDI SULL’ECONOMIA DELLE TECHNAI IN GRECIA DALL’ETÀ ARCAICA ALL’ELLENISMO, 27-38Cecconi N. 2019, Pavimenti e mosaici, in G. Marginesu (a cura di), STUDI SULL’ECONOMIA DELLE TECHNAI IN GRECIA DALL’ETÀ ARCAICA ALL’ELLENISMO, 27-38Cecconi N. 2019, Pavimenti e mosaici, in G. Marginesu (a cura di), STUDI SULL’ECONOMIA DELLE TECHNAI IN GRECIA DALL’ETÀ ARCAICA ALL’ELLENISMO, 27-38Cecconi N. 2019, Pavimenti e mosaici, in G. Marginesu (a cura di), STUDI SULL’ECONOMIA DELLE TECHNAI IN GRECIA DALL’ETÀ ARCAICA ALL’ELLENISMO, 27-38Cecconi N. 2019, Pavimenti e mosaici, in G. Marginesu (a cura di), STUDI SULL’ECONOMIA DELLE TECHNAI IN GRECIA DALL’ETÀ ARCAICA ALL’ELLENISMO, 27-38Niccolò Cecconi2018The study of historical, epigraphic and literary documentation, with the support of the archaeological data, had highlighted the complex scenario of the economy of the floors and in particular of the ancient mosaics. In the research, in fact, all the information are linked to the production of this class of artistic artefact. The data have offered a varied and articulated frame of the economic and production processes of the art of floor decoration, which will be a starting point for understanding the birth and the development of this type of artefacts in the Greek World.See Full PDFDownload PDFSee Full PDFDownload PDFRelated PapersSupplementi dell'Annuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente 2: G. Marginesu (a cura di), Studi sull'economia delle technai in Grecia dall'età arcaica all'ellenismo, Firenze, 2018.Scuola Archeologica  Italiana di AteneSommario Emanuele Papi, Prefazione Giovanni Marginesu, Introduzione Edilizia Giovanni Marginesu, I costi dell’edilizia nel mondo greco Niccolò Cecconi, Pavimenti e mosaici Carlo De Domenico, Costi dei laterizi e della manodopera nei cantieri della Grecia classica ed ellenistica Scultura Giovanni Marginesu, I costi delle statue. Esercizi di calcolo Silvio Leone, Le statue onorarie: prassi ed economia nell’Atene di epoca classica ed ellenistica Pittura Riccardo Di Cesare, Per una visione economica della pittura antica tra artigianato e arte Ceramica Maria Chiara Monaco, «Con un obolo la prendi, ed è bellissima». Sui prezzi della ceramica attica Coroplastica Oliver Pilz, I prezzi delle terrecotte figurate. Un tentativo di ricostruzione Scrittura Irene Berti, I costi della scrittura pubblica Numismatica Spencer Pope, It Takes Money to Make Money: Die Engravers and the Production of Greek CoinsDownload Free PDFView PDFG. Marginesu (a cura di), Studi sull'economia delle 'technai' in Grecia dall'età arcaica all'Ellenismo, Supplementi dell'Annuario della Scuola Archeologica Italiana di Atene, II, 2019.Giovanni MarginesuDownload Free PDFView PDFLe statue onorarie: prassi ed economia nell’Atene di epoca classica ed ellenistica2019 • Silvio LeoneIn “Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers”, the Greek author Diogenes Laertius (III century A.D.) states that a bronze statue in the IV century B.C. in Greece cost 3000 drachms. In addition to that, an overview of the epigraphic record of Hellenistic age confirms that an honorary bronze statue did indeed cost around 2000-3000 drachms. That amount of money was required to cover the expenses of the supply of raw material, of all the working phases, and of the craftsman’s salary. A study of the well-documented honorary practices in Athens in the Classical and Hellenistic age allows us to determine the historical and the social value connected to an honorary monument in the Attic Polis. A comparison between its price and its abstract value enables us to sketch an economy of statue culture, in which the statue appears not only in its materiality but also as a prestige-object for the recipient.Download Free PDFView PDFI prezzi delle terrecotte greche. Un tentativo di ricostruzione, in: G. Marginesu (ed.), Studi sull’economia delle technai in Grecia dall’età arcaica all’ellenismo, ASAtene Suppl. 2 (Athens 2019) 115–124Oliver PilzDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente, vol. 95, 2017 (2018)Scuola Archeologica  Italiana di AteneSOMMARIO E. Papi, Introduzione Προκόπιος Παυλόπουλος, Σημεία ομιλίας του Προέδρου της Δημοκρατίας κ. Προκοπίου Παυλόπουλου κατά την έναρξη του συνεδρίου «Αθήνα-Ρώμη 117-2017 μ.Χ., αφιέρωμα στον Φιλέλληνα Ρωμαίο Αυτοκράτορα και Αθηναίο Άρχοντα Αδριάνο» E. Greco, La SAIA tra 2000 e 2016: ricordo di una direzione SAGGI V.E. Dimitriou, Evidence for metallurgical activities at the south slope of the Athenian Acropolis during the Final Neolithic. A preliminary report S. Vitale, J.E. Morrison, The Final Neolithic and Early Bronze Age Pottery from the site of the Asklupis in the northeast Koan regione G. Baldacci, Low-relief potters' marks and the phaistos disc: a note on the "comb" sign (N. 21) A. Sanavia, An overview of the Protopalatial Impressed Fine Ware from Phaistos and some comparisons with the Phaistos disc S. Antonello, I vasi duplici minoici S. Todaro, Forming techniques and cultural identity in Early and Middle Minoan Crete: multi-layered vessels from a pottery production area at Phaistos A. Greco, G. Flouda, The Linear B PA-I-TO Epigraphic Project M. Camera, Nuovi dati sulle fasi più antiche di Kyme eolica M.R. Luberto, Il motivo dei cavalli alla mangiatoia e l'iconografia del tripode tra Grecia e Italia: alcune considerazioni sulle attestazioni in Magna Grecia L. Mancini, ΘΕΣΠΡΟΤΙΚΑ ΙΕΡΑ. Il contributo del paesaggio sacro alla conoscenza di un ethnos epirota R. Di Cesare, Il ritratto di Temistocle, dal Cinosarge a Ostia G. Marginesu, Polis e scrittura pubblica. Per una semiotica dello spazio epigrafico nell'Atene classica A. Cavagna, Le monete di Tolemeo III nel Peloponneso: circolazione monetaria, tipologia e strutture ponderali C. De Domenico, Produzione, committenza e distribuzione dei laterizi nei cantieri pubblici di Corinto in età ellenistica e romana F.G. Cavallero, Il tempio di Marte in Circo e il suo architetto greco M.C. Monaco, Korai, imagines clipeatae, statuae ducum triumphali effigie nel foro di Augusto: nuove ipotesi N. Cecconi, Il basamento presso l'angolo nord ovest dell'Olympieion di Atene E. Culasso Gastaldi, A. Themos, Nuovi frammenti dell'Edictum Diocletiani: i testi di Lemno e di Sparta a confronto G.E. Cinque, Suggestioni egizie: rilettura di uno schizzo di Giovanni Battista Piranesi M. Barbanera, «Fidia è il barocco della Grecia». I modelli classici dell'Atena di Arturo Martini nella Città Universitaria di Roma SCAVI E RICERCHE N. Cucuzza, The Minoan villa at Kannià: preliminary report on a new project D. Palermo et alii, Priniàs. Scavi e ricerche degli anni 2006-2010 F. Longo, The fortification walls of Phaistos: some preliminary considerations G. Lepore, Scavi recenti nella città di Phoinike (Albania meridionale) Atti della Scuola: 2017 (E. Papi)Download Free PDFView PDFNicola Meluziis, Gli scavi clandestini nella necropoli di Cuma tra fine '800 e inizi '900: il caso di Gaetano Maglione e Luigi Granata,Nicola  MeluziisDownload Free PDFView PDFSupplementi dell'Annuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente 6: N. Cecconi, Mosaici e pavimenti di Atene (V sec. a.C. - VI sec. d.C.), Firenze, 2020. ANTEPRIMAScuola Archeologica  Italiana di Atene, Niccolò CecconiHISTORY OF RESEARCHAND CURRENT PERSPECTIVES Research on ancient Greek mosaics, consisting of both articles and monographs, has reached an advanced state but is not yet considered to have been exhausted. What is still missing, above all, is an analytical study dedicated to one of the most significant cities: Athens. A large part of the existing body of research, moreover, suffers from the lack of new editions and the absence of a consistent methodology in data processing and common terminology, due partly to the absence of an AIEMA affiliated national branch such as those already formed in Italy, Spain, France, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Tunisia, Cyprus, Turkey, Canada and the United States. For this reason, the results of the research in this text are presented in accordance with the methods established by AIEMA (International Association for the Study of Ancient Mosaics) and AISCOM (Italian Association for the Study and Conservation of Mosaics), who operates through annual conferences and the online platform TESS, the most up to date system for digital cata- loguing of ancient pavements, used for recording all examples in Italy but which can also be used to collect data acquired from other nations. Recent monographs using this methodology have recently been produced by Francesca Rinaldi for the mosaics of Venice, Michele Bueno for those of Tuscany, Andrea Salcuni for the repertoire of Abruzzo, Giovanna Paolucci for the mosaic cul- ture of Emilia Romagna and recently by Francesca Ghedini, Marta Novello, Francesca Rinaldi and Michele Bueno for the mosaics of Aquileia. GEOGRAPHICAL CONTEXT AND CHRONOLOGICAL BOUNDARIES The study addressed various aspects of mosaic production, ranging from the more strictly technical to those relating to the choice of decorative themes and the relationship between mosa- ics and the architectural space within which they were employed. With regards to the chronological framework, four macro phases are utilised, consistent with the canonical chronological divisions for ancient Greek artistic/artisanal culture: a. Classical and proto-Hellenistic (500-300 BCE) b. Hellenistic (300-50 BCE) c. Roman (50 BCE-300 CE) d. Late Imperial/Paleochristian (300-600 CE) The urban area is divided into fourteen zones, which coincide with the selections made in the volumes of the Topografia di Atene of the Italian Archaeological School at Athens. The repertoire taken into consideration is composed of all the attestations referable to geo- graphical contexts with a distinct urban character and excludes rural areas. 168 Mosaici e pavimenti di Atene (V sec. a.C.-VI sec. d.C.) ORGANISATION OF THE TEXT The research presented in the text consists of the study of the mosaics, which have been surveyed and analysed according to execution techniques following the criteria of the separation into distinct components of the floor (edge/field). This typological study constitutes Part I of the text, which con- siders pebble, chip and irregular tessera mosaics, cement, opus tessellatum, opus vermicolatum, opus sec- tile and terracotta mosaics. The study of each class of mosaic is introduced by a brief synopsis of the history of studies and current state of research. This is followed by a brief description of the repertoire under examination and a detailed investigation of the floor treatments and decorative motifs of the edges, the composition of the fields, and the figurative repertoire. Each motif and decorative pattern is accompanied by an alpha-numeric code consisting of the acronym DM (Mosaic Decoration) and a number referring to the table of the volumes of the Le décor géométrique de la mosaïque romaine. If a decorative motif is not present in the volumes, only the name of the motif or composition is indicated. Comparisons with other specimens within the Greek territory accompany each decoration, as well as, in cases of particularly significant examples, other areas of the Mediterranean. Part II of the volume is dedicated to the reconstruction of data derived from the analysis of the mosaics. Chapter 1 reports the quantitative data, which constitutes the documentary basis of Chapter 2, in which a historical-topographical synthesis of the mosaic culture of the macro-peri- ods under examination is presented. This section of the study offers useful indications for recon- structing the evolution of the repertoire, the relationships between various micro/macro-regional areas, and the development of local workshops or, alternatively, the involvement of non-local craftsmen brought into the city. Each chronological-topographical section is accompanied by a section dedicated to the relation- ship between the mosaic and the architectural context for which they were produced, useful for un- derstanding the role of mosaics in the broader context of the decorative system of ancient buildings. Part III consists of the catalogue of identified specimens, each accompanied by a numerical code consisting of a Roman numeral and an Arabic number. The Roman numeral indicates the chrono- logical context: I: Classical and Proto-Hellenistic; II: Hellenistic; III: Roman; IV: Late Imperial/ Paleochristian. The Arabic number represents the division of the territory under study into the ur- ban macro-areas mentioned above. A specific section of the catalogue is reserved for mosaics with an unidentified chronological and topographical context (identified with the abbreviation EX), as well as for sectilia pavimenta and polychrome marble paving (identified with the abbreviate OS). The numerical code is also reported alongside each mosaic mentioned in Parts I, II, III and IV of the text. Each catalogue entry consists of the following information: numerical code; name of the building and relevance; the pages where the mosaic is mentioned in the text; the table number in which the sample image appears; L: location of conservation; A: environment; S: scan of the floor covering; I: layout type; CL: colour scheme and lithotypes; DM: dimensions; P: subfloor prepara- tion; ECA: complimentary decorative elements; D: short description; C: chronology and dating elements (if a new proposal for dating is advanced the pages of the text in which it is discussed is indicated); B: basic bibliography. Finally, Part IV presents the tables in which the mosaics are collected inserted, where possible, into the plan of the relevant architectural complex. The plans were drawn up in detail using all avail- able published and unpublished data. The archaeological drawings were created through scientific reconstructions resulting from the study conducted in the manner described below. The plans of the buildings are presented in grey, including those resulting from reconstruction. The preserved sections of the mosaics are presented in black or red while the reconstructed examples are presented in grey or blue. An exception was made for intact or largely preserved mosaics with published zenith photos or high quality drawings. In these cases, the image was mounted inside the plan (for example in the balaneion of the Serangeion [I.68-69], the Odeion of Herodes Atticus [III.24-25, OS.4], in the House of the National Gardens [IV-36-42], and the Church of Hag. Petros Stavromenos [EX.2]). Finally, the graphical section is equipped with a collection of maps, consisting of aerial satellite pho- tos made with Google Earth Pro, which identified the location of all mosaics under examination, recognisable thanks to the catalogue number presented as well in an introductory synoptic table.Download Free PDFView PDFAnnuario della Scuola Archeologica Italiana di Atene, Supplemento 2" Con un obolo la prendi ed è bellissima".Sui prezzi della ceramica attica2018 • Maria Chiara Monaco34) M.Ch. Monaco 2018, “Con un obolo la prendi ed è bellissima.” Sui prezzi della ceramica attica, in G. Marginesu (a cura di), Studi sull’economia delle technai in Grecia dall’età arcaica all’Ellenismo, Annuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene, Supplemento 2, 73-90.Download Free PDFView PDFAnnuario della Scuola Archeologica Italiana di AteneDal Pentelico a Tivoli. Alcune osservazioni su programma decorativo, marmi e officine nell'arredo statuario dell'Odeion di Villa Adriana, ASAtene XCII, 2014, 99-1282014 • Adalberto OttatiDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente, vol. 96, 2018Scuola Archeologica  Italiana di AteneSOMMARIO Saggi G. Sarcone, Un grande tripode con Gorgone dall’Acropoli di Atene M. Iozzo, Un’anfora dimenticata: note di iconografia e problemi epigrafici A. F. Ferrandes, Storie di migranti. Nuovi dati sulla presenza di maestranze straniere a Roma e sul rinnovamento della cultura materiale medio-tirrenica nella prima metà del IV sec. a.C. P. Storchi, Ipotesi di riconoscimento dei teatri di Pella e della Colonia Pellensis mediante immagini telerilevate L. Taborelli, S. M. Marengo, Microcontenitori per il λύκιον in area greca. Esemplari smarriti, discussi e trovati E. Rinaldi, Instrumenta publica dai contesti urbani epiroti di età ellenistica A. Rossi, Paesaggi della Messarà occidentale tra l’età tardo-ellenistica e l’età romana: topografia, analisi archeomorfologica e nuove prospettive di ricerca D. Anelli, Il culto dei Lari in Grecia D. Kosmopoulos, Kos, “santuario del porto”. Analisi architettonica e relazioni tra diversi linguaggi stilistici N. Cecconi, Sectilia pavimenta e lastricati marmorei di Atene S. Pafumi, Sculture del teatro romano di Catania: grandi tazze marmoree con fregio figurato L. Kosmopoulos, Il Monopteros dell’Agora di Atene: revisione stilistica e cronologica dei frammenti architettonici A. Ottati, Considerazioni su sigle e tracciati di cantiere nella Biblioteca di Adriano ad Atene P. Vitti, Il ninfeo adrianeo di Argo P. Fileri, Colonne palmiformi nella Grecia romana S. Leone, Dreizehnmal Ti. Claudius Atticus Herodes und Vibullia Alcia? Visuelle Präsenz einer prominenten Familie im kaiserzeitlichen Athen M. Galli, Nota sulle dimore di Erode Attico ad Atene Y. Marano, Taxpayers and sinners: una nota su IG XII 62 1266 R. Valente, Amphorae in Early and Middle Byzantine Corinth: continuity and changes R. Graells i Fabregat, Sobre el nacimiento de los estudios de armas defensivas antiguas griegas como disciplina arqueológica G. Fadelli, Federico Halbherr a Creta e l’esplorazione delle regioni di Mylopotamos e Amari (1894) S. Struffolino, Federico Halbherr e la topografia della Cirenaica antica. Documenti inediti dagli archivi della Scuola Archeologica Italiana di Atene e dell’Accademia Roveretana degli Agiati Ν. Σακκά, Οι ανασκαφές της Ιταλικής Σχολής Αθηνών στη Ρωμαϊκή Αγορά και τη Βιβλιοθήκη του Αδριανού (1941-1943) Scavi e ricerche Atene E. Brombin, F. G. Cavallero, Il quartiere a sud dell’Acropoli di Atene. Analisi e ricostruzione di un paesaggio urbano Creta A. Pautasso, «...the result can be bold and startling». Crateri figurati d’età geometrica dalla necropoli di Siderospilia (Priniàs) N. Allegro, E. C. Portale, Gortina. Nuovi dati dagli scavi dell’insediamento di Profitis Ilias L. M. Caliò, A. M. Jaia, R. Sassu, L’area monumentale settentrionale nella zona del Pretorio di Gortina. Gli scavi a est del ninfeo. Nota preliminare Lemno R. Di Cesare, Il santuario arcaico dell’acropoli di Efestia (Lemno): l’Edificio con stipe. Relazione preliminare (scavi 2018) C. De Domenico, La basilica del porto di Efestia (Lemno). Relazione preliminare delle ricerche del 2018 M. Ch. Monaco, Il Cabirio di Lemno – Scavi 1937-1939. I. L’esedra e il quartiere tardo-romano tra le due terrazze Peloponneso P. Ralli, La decorazione pavimentale della chiesa di Hagios Christophoros a Pallantion (Arcadia) In memoriam E. Ghisellini, AntonioGiuliano G. Rocco, Enzo Lippolis E. Papi, 18 settembre 1938 Atti della Scuola: 2018 (E. Papi)Download Free PDFView PDFSee Full PDFDownload PDFLoading PreviewSorry, preview is currently unavailable. You can download the paper by clicking the button above.RELATED PAPERSin F. Berti (a cura di), Forme del sacro. Scritti in memoria di Doro Levi, Annuario della Scuola Archeologica Italiana di Atene, Supplemento 5, 111-128Kathoti kai proteron. Un contributo all'interpretazione di I.Iasos 2192019 • Roberta FabianiDownload Free PDFView PDFSupplementi dell'Annuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente 5: F. Berti (a cura di), Forme del Sacro. Scritti in memoria di Doro Levi, Firenze, 2019. ANTEPRIMAScuola Archeologica  Italiana di AteneDownload Free PDFView PDFM. Lagogianni-Georgakarakos – E. Papi (eds), Hadrianus – Αδριανός. Hadrian, Athens and the Gymnasia (Exhibition Catalogue, Athens, National Archaeological Museum, 28.11.2017 – 31.12.2018), Athens 2018, 151, 195 Cat no. 13 (in Greek, Italian and English)Έ. Βλαχογιάννη, "Ο Απόλλωνας Λύκειος, θεός των Γυμνασίων/Apollo Licio, Dio dei Ginnasi/Apollo Lykeios, God of the Gymnasia", in: Hadrianus – Αδριανός. Hadrian, Athens and the Gymnasia, Athens 2018, 151, 1952018 • Elena VlachogianniDownload Free PDFView PDFThree frescoes in the niche of the burial of St. Neophytos in Cyprus, Porphyra, n.23, Venezia, 2015Marina BordneDownload Free PDFView PDFE. Gagliano, Hermes Propylaios (e le Charites) sull'Acropoli di Atene, ASAtene XCII (2014), pp. 33-68Elena  GaglianoDownload Free PDFView PDFR. Di Cesare, La città di Cecrope. Ricerche sulla politica edilizia cimoniana ad Atene SATAA 11, Atene-Paestum 2015Scuola Archeologica  Italiana di Atene, Riccardo Di CesareDownload Free PDFView PDFStudio storico-topografico di un brano Aristofane (Ecclesiazuse, 681-686), in "Annuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente", vol. 90, serie III, 12, 2012, pp. 137-166.Riccardo Di CesareDownload Free PDFView PDFHistorika Studi Di Storia Greca E RomanaQuanto costa incidere una stele? Costi di produzione e meccanismi di pubblicazione delle iscrizioni pubbliche in Grecia2014 • Irene BertiDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnali della Scuola Archeologica di Atene.Menico Caroli, “Gli scribi del tiranno, i librai del demos”, «ASAtene» 89, s. III; 11, t. I (2013), pp. 9-24.Menico  CaroliDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente, vol. 97, 2019Scuola Archeologica  Italiana di AteneDownload Free PDFView PDFDue manoscritti «inediti» delle opere di Neophytos Vamvas, «Ho Eranistes» 29 (2016), pp. 257-281Marta  DieliDownload Free PDFView PDFSupplementi dell'Annuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente 4: F. De Stefano, L'immagine e il contesto. Produzioni figurative e immaginario sociale nelle comunità della Siritide e del Metapontino (VIII-VI secolo a.C.), Firenze, 2019. ANTEPRIMAScuola Archeologica  Italiana di Atene, Francesco De StefanoDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnuario Scuola Archeologica di Atene, Supplemento 1La Nike di Samotracia tra Macedoni e Romani. Un riesame del monumento nel quadro dell'assimilazione dei penati agli Dei di Samotracia2018 • Eugenio La RoccaDownload Free PDFView PDFT. Cevoli (a cura di), Archeomafie, III, 2011, ISSN: 2036-4539.Tsao Cevoli, Paolo Daniele ScirpoDownload Free PDFView PDFL’insegnamento del greco classico nel sistema educativo dela Grecia dalla restaurazione della democrazia a oggiStamatis BussèsDownload Free PDFView PDFSupplementi dell'Annuario della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente 1: E. La Rocca, La Nike di Samotracia tra Macedoni e Romani. Un riesame del monumento nel quadro dell'assimilazione dei Penati agli Dei di Samotracia, Firenze, 2018.Scuola Archeologica  Italiana di AteneDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnuario della Scuola Archeologica Italiana di Atene vol. XCII, serie III, 14 "I porti militari nel mondo greco. Tra territorio e pensiero politico", in ASAtene XCII, serie III, 14 (2014), 271-277.Anna SalzanoDownload Free PDFView PDFJ. Bonetto, D. Francisci, S. Mazzocchin, Gortina IX.1. Il Teatro del Pythion. Scavi e Ricerche 2001-2013, Monografie della Scuola Archeologica di Atene e delle Missioni Italiane in Oriente, XXVIII, Atene, 2019, ANTEPRIMAJacopo Bonetto, Denis Francisci, Scuola Archeologica  Italiana di AteneDownload Free PDFView PDFOpos Lakedaimonioi eosi tos Ellenas eleutheros: l'Agorà di Atene e la Seconda Lega delio-attica, in M.Lombardo, F.Frisone (a cura di) Forme sovrapoleiche ed interpoleiche di organizzazione nel mondo greco antico, Atti del Convegno, Lecce 2008, 222-249Maria Chiara MonacoDownload Free PDFView PDFCimone e l'immagine di Atene nel dopoguerra persiano, in L. M. Caliò, E. Lippolis, V. Parisi (a cura di), Gli Ateniesi e il loro modello di città. Seminari di Storia e Archeologia greca I (Roma, 25-26 giugno 2012), Thiasos Monografie 5, Roma 2014, 139-162.Riccardo Di CesareDownload Free PDFView PDFIsabella Baldini, Monica Livadiotti (eds.), Archeologia protobizantina a Kos: la basilica di S. GabrieleMonica  Livadiotti, isabella BaldiniDownload Free PDFView PDFASAIA (Annuario della Scuola archeologica di Atene e delle missioni italiane in Oriente),PISANI M., La scoperta di una statua fittile dal Thesmophorion di Orchomenos in Beozia2017 • Marcella PisaniDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnuario SAIA2018 - Storie di migranti. Nuovi dati sulla presenza di maestranze straniere a Roma e sul rinnovamento della cultura materiale medio-tirrenica nella prima metà del IV sec. a.C.2018 • Antonio F. FerrandesDownload Free PDFView PDFAnnuario della Scuola Archeologica Italiana di Atene e delle missioni in OrienteKorai, imagines clipeatae,statuae ducum triumphali effigie nel Foro di Augusto: nuove ipotesi (abstract)2017 • Maria Chiara MonacoDownload Free PDFView PDFDimitriou V.E. 2016,  L’Acropoli di Atene durante il Neolitico Finale e il Bronzo Antico. Lo studio ex novo dei ritrovamenti dello scavo Levi sul pendio Sud: rapporto preliminare, ASAtene XCII, serie III, 14. 16-31Vasiliki Eleni DimitriouDownload Free PDFView PDFPace e libertà: Pausania e l'arredo scultoreo dell'Agora di AteneMassimo  OsannaDownload Free PDFView PDFRicontestualizzare il sacro: il caso del “recinto dell’incrocio” nell’angolo nord-occidentale dell’Agorà di AteneGiorgia SantoroDownload Free PDFView PDFReview: Giovanni Rizza (a.c.d.), Identità culturale, etnicità e processi di trasformazione a Creta fra Dark Age e Arcaismo2015 • Paolo Daniele ScirpoDownload Free PDFView PDFAtene: la città cristianaisabella BaldiniDownload Free PDFView PDFLa ricchezza di Atene: l'Acropoli e le risorse della polis, in Gli Ateniesi e il loro modello di città, Thiasos Monografie 5, Roma 2014, pp. 107-118Rita SassuDownload Free PDFView PDFTempo, spazio e memoria nella letteratura italiana. Omaggio ad Antonio Tabucchi / Χρόνος, τόπος και μνήμη στην ιταλική λογοτεχνία. Τιμή στον Antonio Tabucchi, a cura di Z. Zografidou, Salonicco, Università “Aristotele” di Salonicco-Aracne ed.-University Studio Press, 2012, pp. 124-142.La memoria degli stradioti nella letteratura italiana del tardo RinascimentoStathis BirtachasDownload Free PDFView PDFRELATED TOPICSAncient economies (Archaeology)Greek ArchaeologyGraeco-Roman Mosaics and Wall Pa...Ancient Architecture and Constru...See Full PDFDownload PDFAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023