Official expert recommendations for a new Interoperability Policy | Joinup
      Skip to main content
    
Interoperable EuropeInteroperability SolutionsSign in
                      Get started
                    
                        Create an account
                        As a signed-in user you can create content, become a member of a community, receive notifications on your favourite solutions and topics, and access all other features available on the platform.Toggle menu
                          Home
                        
                          Interoperable Europe
                        
                          Interoperability Solutions
                        
                          Sign in
                        
                          About us
                        Toggle search boxInteroperable EuropeSearch
Group menu
NewsEventsPolicyFAQs
        News
      
 
                Expert recommendations for the next EU Interoperability Policy: official version published
          
more news
 
Laurens GAUKEMA
Published on: 13/05/2022
Last update: 10/08/2023
The Expert group on the Interoperability of European Public Services came together and formulated 27 recommendations to strengthen the interoperability of public administrations across the EU. These recommendations are one of the cornerstones for the upcoming European Commission policy proposal “Interoperable Europe Act”. 
                                                                             Read the Expert group policy recommendations 
The recommendations aim to establish a more structured and pragmatic cooperation, both between Member States at a horizontal level, and between different European services and policies at a vertical level. They enable the smooth, interoperable implementation and delivery of digital public services at European level without adding new obligations on the Member States, and help to increase overall digital maturity. 
The recommendations are centered around three main themes:  
A  re-enforcement of the European cooperation on interoperability via a governance structure co-owned by the Member States and the Commission 
Making sure upcoming policies and European legislation are interoperable and digital-ready by default 
Upgrading the available inventory of EU interoperable solutions  
In the coming months, the Commission will publish a proposal for a reinforced interoperability policy in which these recommendations will be expressed.  
European Commissioner Johannes Hahn (Budget and Administration): “These recommendations, which reflect the actual needs of the EU Member States, are our lighthouse when developing a common digital public sector policy – for and with all layers of government – which contributes to a Europe fit for the digital age. I now look forward to translating these recommendations into concrete actions.” 
Recommendations adopted unanimously 
The Expert Group on the Interoperability of European Public Services was set up by the European Commission’s Directorate General for Informatics in February 2020. Its members consist of representatives of the national public administrations of the European Member States responsible for the digital transformation of the State. 
The recommendations were already adopted unanimously by the member states on the 5th of October 2021. The new document presented here is the official version.  
Report abusive content
Join our community!
 
Joinup
v1.96.0
Useful links
About us
What is Joinup
Joinup Licensing Assistant
EIF Online Assistant
EIF Toolbox
Interoperable Europe
Help and support
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Contact Joinup Support
How-to & video tutorials
Satisfaction survey
Federation of solutions
Legal notice
Privacy statement
European Commission
About the Commission's new web presence
Resources for partners
Cookies
Contact European Commission
Europa Analytics
Follow us
Newsletter subscription
Newsletter archive
Twitter
LinkedIn