Center for the Study of the Public Domain | Duke University School of Law
Skip to main content 
Duke Law > Centers & Programs
You are here 
            > Center for the Study of the Public Domain
About UsPeople
Contact
Center PublicationsTheft! A History of Music comic  
Bound By Law? comic 
Open IP Coursebook 
Public Domain Day
Video Resources
EventsLecture Series
Conferences and Meetings
Multilingual Resources中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Português (Portuguese)
Español (Spanish)
ProjectsArts Project
History and Theory
Science and Technology
Constitutional
International
Pro Bono Legal Work
Support the Center
Join our email list
Follow us on Twitter
 
 
 
      Center News    
Public Domain Day 2023!
On January 1, 2023, works from 1927 enter the U.S. public domain. They include Virginia Woolf's To The Lighthouse and the final Sherlock Holmes stories by Arthur Conan Doyle, the German science-fiction film Metropolis and Alfred Hitchcock’s first thriller, and a novelty song about ice cream. See what will be open to all on our annual site!
Listen to these stories about Public Domain Day covered by: 
 
NPR's Morning Edition
WNYC's All of it
Intellectual Property: Law & the Information Society—Cases and Materials (5th Edition 2021)
The Center announces the publication of the fifth edition of an Open Coursebook, Intellectual Property: Law & the Information Society—Cases and Materials. The book is an introduction to U.S. intellectual property law written and edited by the Center's Faculty Co-Director James Boyle and the Center's Director Jennifer Jenkins and is available for free download or in a low cost print edition. » Read more
Public Domain Day 2021!
On January 1, 2021, works from 1925 (finally) enter the U.S. public domain. They include F. Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby and Virginia Woolf’s Mrs. Dalloway, silent films featuring Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton, and music including the jazz standard Sweet Georgia Brown and songs by Gertrude “Ma” Rainey. See what will be open to all on our annual site!
Find out more in this video about the Public Domain!
What COULD have been entering the US public domain in 2021? Under the law that existed until 1978, we’d be getting works from 1964. Read more about it here.
Planet Money Buys a Superhero: Loophole
Planet Money travels into the public domain to find their very own superhero, with the help of CSPD Director Jennifer Jenkins! Listen to the podcast here.
Public Domain Day 2021 Was a Hit!
Read or listen to stories about Public Domain Day as covered by Morning Edition, Smithsonian Magazine, and NPR Arts & Life.
Public Domain Day celebration!
On December 17, 2020, the Center joined the Internet Archive, Wikimedia Foundation, Creative Commons, and SPARC to throw a Public Domain Day party.
Furt: o istorie a muzicii [Theft!: A History of Music]
The Center for the Study of the Public Domain is pleased to share the Romanian version of Theft! A History of Music. Just released, „Furt: o istorie a muzicii” is a translation made by George Hari Popescu under a Creative Commons BY-NC-SA license. Mr. Popescu commented that some of the greatest challenges were in translating the puns, song lyrics, and graphics from English to Romanian; but that the end result is well-received in Romania. Read more about it at https://ccommons.cc/ [in Romanian] or download the book—for free—at https://ccommons.cc/carte-furt-citeste-descarca/.
         
Public Domain Day 2020
On January 1, 2020, works from 1924 (finally) enter the public domain. They include George Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue” and “Fascinating Rhythm,” silent films by Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd, and Thomas Mann’s “The Magic Mountain,” E. M. Forster’s “A Passage to India,” and A. A. Milne’s “When We Were Very Young.” These works were supposed to go into the US public domain in 2000, after being copyrighted for 75 years. But before this could happen, Congress hit a 20-year pause button and extended their copyright term to 95 years. See what will be open to all on our annual site.
But…what COULD have been entering the US public domain in 2020? Under the law that existed until 1978, we’d be getting works from 1963. Read more about it here.
The Past and Future of the Internet: A Symposium for John Perry Barlow
CSPD Faculty Co-Director James Boyle serves as Special Editor for this just-released issue of the Duke Law & Technology Review (18 Duke L. & Tech. Rev. 1 (2019)). The symposium includes works by Prof. Boyle, John Perry Barlow, Cory Doctorow, Cindy Cohn, Yochai Benkler, Julie E. Cohen, Benjamin Edelman, Pamela Samuelson & Kathryn Hashimoto, Jessica Litman, Jonathan L. Zittrain, Anupam Chander & Madhavi Sunder, Peter Jaszi, and Charles R. Nesson. » Read the Symposium
Public Domain Day 2019
On January 1, 2019, works from 1923 will (finally) enter the US public domain! This is the first time in over twenty years that published works have entered our public domain. See what will be freely available in 2019.
A Trove of Works Enters the Public Domain
CSPD Director Jennifer Jenkins comments to the Smithsonian magazine on the upcoming release of works to the public domain in the United States. » Read more
The 50th Anniversary of Hardin's "The Tragedy of the Commons."
Writing in The Economist, Faculty Co-Director James Boyle discusses the various influences of Garrett Hardin's seminal article, "The Tragedy of the Commons," which first appeared in Science magazine's December 13, 1968, issue. » Read more
Boyle and Jenkins Discuss Music Comic
The Center for the Study of the Public Domain's Faculty Co-Director James Boyle and Director Jennifer Jenkins discuss their graphic novel, Theft! A History of Music, at the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University. » Watch the video
A Landslide of Classic Art Is About to Enter the Public Domain
Center Director Jennifer Jenkins discusses the resumption of works entering the public domain in 2019 and research that the Center is working on about some of those works. » The Atlantic
Academic Knowledge for All
Faculty Co-Director James Boyle discusses open access academic publishing and the potential for free access to change how people create and share ideas. » Listen to WUNC's The State of Things
Public Domain Day: January 1, 2018
The Center marks Public Domain Day—when thousands of works enter the public domain around the world—with a celebration of what won’t be entering the public domain in the US.
 The Center for the Study of the Public Domain is proud to announce the publication of Theft! A History of Music.
The book is a graphic novel (aka "comic book")  laying out a 2000 year history of musical borrowing from Plato to rap. The comic, by James Boyle, Jennifer Jenkins and the late Keith Aoki is available as a handsome 8.5 x 11″ paperback, and for free download under a Creative Commons license.
Listen to co-author James Boyle discuss the comic on NPR’s The State of Things.
Read what people are saying about the book: boing boing, DukeToday, Indy Weekly, Chronicle.
German translation of Bound By Law? now available
The Center is pleased to announce a new translation of its educational comic, created by Wolfgang Flechsenhaar, LL.M. Von Gesetzes Wegen? is the sixth translation of the work that we know of. » Lesen Sie das Comic-Buch [Read the comic]
 Reversing the Erosion of the Public Domain?
Center Director Jennifer Jenkins reveals the promise and the limits of various attempts to reverse the erosion of the public domain in In Ambiguous Battle: The Promise (and Pathos) of Public Domain Day.
Is We Shall Overcome in the public domain?
Center Director Jennifer Jenkins talks about copyright term and orphan works in a USA Today column discussing the suit to establish that We Shall Overcome is in the public domain, and highlighting the Center's websites about what could have been in the public domain. » USA Today UPDATE—court holds that key parts of We Shall Overcome are in the public domain.
Fair use education
Professor Jennifer Jenkins, Center Director, discusses the need for balance in educational programs on copyright and fair use for Consumerist. » Read more
"Films are literally rotting in their cans"
Professor Jennifer Jenkins, Center Director, comments on American copyright law and Public Domain Day for Quartz. » Read more
Ariosa Diagnostics v. Sequenom
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai discusses the possible effects of the Federal Circuit's ruling in this patent case. A three-judge panel invalidated Sequenom's patent in June and the court recently denied the company's petition for reconsideration en banc review. » Read more
Biologics and barriers to entry for new manufacturers
A forthcoming article by Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai and co-author W. Nicholson Price is quoted in The New York Times's The Upshot article on drug pricing. » Read more
Rai comments on proposed trade deal
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai discusses the recently announced Trans-Pacific Partnership and its potential effects on pharmaceutical patents and access to medicine. » Read more
No copyright in lyrics to ‘Happy Birthday’
Center Director Jennifer Jenkins comments on Marya v. Warner/Chappell Music, Inc., 2015 WL 5568497 (2015), and Judge George H. King's decision (available here via the Internet Archive) that Warner/Chappell Music did not hold a valid copyright in the lyrics to the song. » FastCompany
Rai comments on how new rules will have little impact on curbing patent trolling
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai discusses recent U.S. Patent and Trademark Office rules affecting patent eligibility standards. » Read more
Senators propose patent reform
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai discusses the recently introduced Protecting American Talent and Entrepreneurship Act (PATENT Act) with Scott Drake of Legal Broadcast Network.
"Universities are more often on the giving end . . . of the legal threats"
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai comments for ScienceInsider on the Innovation Act (H.R. 9) introduced in the House of Representatives this year and the legislation's potential effects on universities.” » more
Are trade secrets delaying biosimilars?
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai and Prof. W. Nicholson Price II co-author an article examining the effect of trade secrets on the cost of cutting-edge medications in Science.
The “Blurred Lines” of the Law
CSPD Director Jennifer Jenkins discusses the recent jury verdict in the copyright infringement case involving the song “Blurred Lines.” » more
I Have a Copyright: The Problem with MLK's Speech
Professor Jennifer Jenkins, Center Director, comments on the copyright status of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech in Mother Jones magazine. Prof. Jenkins also comments for USA Today on the recently decided case involving the sale of some of Dr. King's papers by his former assistant.
(EM)I Has a Dream
CSPD Faculty Co-Director James Boyle discusses the copyright issues surrounding Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech and other vital cultural events in a column for Huffington Post. He also discusses his column and the issues with HuffPost Live TV.
Administrative Conference Appoints New Members
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai has been appointed to the Administrative Conference of the United States. » Read more
Six Duke Law journals move to digital-only format
Richard Danner, Senior Associate Dean for Information Services at Duke Law School, calls the move to digital-only publication a natural next-step in the university's long-standing commitment to open access for scholarly works. » Read more
Rai comments on "patent troll" lawsuits
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai comments on Obama administration plans to crack down on 'patent trolls' in an article in The New York Times.
Court Ruling Takes a Stand on Essential High-Tech Patents
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai comments on the U.S. District Court's ruling in Microsoft v. Motorola for The New York Times.
Reselling media content: Seconds to go
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai comments on the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons for The Economist.
Rai elected to ALI
Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai is one of three Duke Law School faculty recently elected to the American Law Institute. » Read more
Who owns Sherlock Holmes?
CSPD Director Jennifer Jenkins comments on Leslie Klinger's lawsuit against the heirs of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle who are trying to collect license fees for Mr. Klinger's series of new Sherlock Holmes-inspired stories. » The Economist
In Memoriam: Professor Keith Aoki
It is with great sadness that we note the death of Keith Aoki, Professor of Law at UC Davis Law School, and long-time collaborator with the Center. Prof. Aoki combined many different talents: scholar, artist, musician, mentor, father, husband, gentleness, humor, and so much more. Describing Prof. Aoki's contributions to the Center is difficult to do in a small space, but Prof. James Boyle, Faculty Co-Director, shares a marvelous tribute to Prof. Aoki and Prof. Jennifer Jenkins, Director, offers her own personal remembrance.
Endowed by Their Creator?: The Future of Constitutional Personhood
Faculty Co-Director James Boyle examines how constitutional law should meet the challenges posed by artificially created entities. » Brookings Institution
Indigenous/Traditional Knowledge and Intellectual Property
The Center is pleased to announce the release of a new policy guide on indigenous and traditional knowledge, prepared by scholar Dr. Jane Anderson. This paper offers an analysis of the wide range of proposals for protecting indigenous knowledge, along with illustrative examples, in order to assist policymakers and citizens navigating this complex field. » Read the paper
 The Public Domain: Enclosing the Commons of the Mind
Faculty Co-Director James Boyle's book, recently named American Society for Information Science and Technology Book of the Year for 2009, explores the importance of the public domain to music, culture, science, and economic welfare and explains what we must do to protect it. Prof. Boyle discusses the book on BBC's In Business, NPR, North Carolina Public Radio, Connecticut Public Radio, and BBC's Thinking Allowed. In addition to the ASIST honor, The Public Domain received the 2008 McGannon Award from Fordham University's Donald McGannon Communication Research Center. Visit the book's web site to read the book online, check the reviews, and more; or buy the book.
 Multilingual Educational Resources about Intellectual Property and the Public Domain
Find Chinese, French, Portuguese and Spanish translations of educational resources created for the Center to promote greater awareness and understanding about IP and the public domain. Visit the site.
 IP and Synthetic Biology
Read Faculty Co-Director Arti Rai's seminal articles about intellectual property and "synthetic biology" - the attempt to construct new biological functions and systems, starting at the genetic level: Synthetic Biology: The Intellectual Property Puzzle (with Sapna Kumar) and Synthetic Biology: Caught Between Property Rights, the Public Domain, and the Commons (with James Boyle). Here Professor Rai's recent lecture on The Paradigm Shift of Synthetic Biology: Tensions Between Innovation and Security given at the University of Minnesota [ more information ].
 7 Ways To Ruin A Technological Revolution
If you wanted to undermine the technological revolution of the last 30 years, using the law, how would you do it? Faculty Co-Director James Boyle provides answers at a Google Tech Talk. View the webcast
View the News archive.
Faculty Scholarship
James Boyle
Cultural Environmentalism and Beyond
Open Source Innovation, Patent Injunctions, and the Public Interest
Synthetic Biology: Caught Between Property Rights, the Public Domain, and the Commons (with Arti K. Rai)
David Lange
Golan v. Holder: Copyright in the Image of the First Amendment (with Risa J. Weaver, Shiveh Roxana Reed)
Unshackling Speech
Reimagining The Public Domain
A Comment on New York Times v. Tasini
Arti Rai
Patent Validity Across the Executive Branch: Ex Ante Foundations for Policy Development
Valuing Health Care: Improving Productivity and Quality
Use Patents, Carve-Outs, and Incentives — A New Battle in the Drug-Patent Wars
Accountability in patenting of federally funded research (with Bhaven N. Sampat)
DNA sequence patents are not in the grave yet (with Robert Cook-Deegan)
Proprietary science, open science and the role of patent disclosure (with Subhashini Chandrasekharan, Sapna Kumar, & Cory M Valley)
Fixing Innovation: A Structural Perspective (with Stuart M. Benjamin)
Building a Better Patent System: Facially Neutral Standards With Disparate Impact
University Software Ownership: Technology Transfer or Business as Usual? (with John R. Allison, Bhaven Sampat, & Colin Crossman)
Jerome H. Reichman
When Copyright Law and Science Collide: Empowering Digitally Integrated Research Methods on a Global Scale (with Ruth L. Okediji)
A Compensatory Liability Regime to Promote the Exchange of Microbial Genetic Resources for Research and Benefit Sharing
Overcoming the Impasse on Intellectual Property and Climate Change at the UNFCCC: A Way Forward
Intellectual Property in the Twenty-First Century: Will the Developing Countries Lead or Follow?
Comment: Compulsory Licensing of Patented Pharmaceutical Inventions: Evaluating the Options
Intellectual Property and Alternatives: Strategies for Green Innovation (with Richard Newell, Arti K. Rai, & Jonathan B. Wiener)
Pathways Across the Valley of Death: Novel Intellectual Property Strategies for Accelerated Drug Discovery (with Arti K. Rai, Paul F. Uhlir, & Colin Crossman)
A Reverse Notice and Takedown Regime to Enable Public Interest Uses of Technically Protected Copyrighted Works (with Graeme B. Dinwoodie & Pamela Samuelson)
 
 
      Featured Events    
David L. Lange Lecture in Intellectual Property
On Wednesday, April 4, Harvard Law Professor Jonathan Zittrain presented "All of this has happened before, and all of this will happen again: What yesterday's copyright wars teach us about today's issues in AI." » Watch the video
 Faculty Author Celebration: James Boyle & Jennifer Jenkins, Theft! A History of Music.
Professors Jamie Boyle and Jennifer Jenkins discuss their newest book, Theft! A History of Music. The graphic novel lays out a 2000-year long history of musical borrowing from Plato to rap, an epic battle between creativity and control. Sponsored by the Duke Law Library and the Office of the Dean. » Watch the video
Jennifer Jenkins discusses the ambiguous battle over Public Domain Day
Jennifer Jenkins discusses the public domain as part of Duke Law School’s video series. YouTube
David L. Lange Lecture in Intellectual Property
Professor William W. Fisher discusses "The Legal Treatment of Traditional Knowledge"
Professor Fisher, WilmerHale Professor of Intellectual Property Law and Faculty Director of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, is a globally recognized expert on intellectual property law and has published numerous works on intellectual property and American legal history. This is the inaugural David L. Lange Lecture in Intellectual Property, formerly called the Meredith & Kip Frey Lecture in Intellectual Property. You can view Prof. Fisher's talk on YouTube.
Meredith & Kip Frey Lecture in Intellectual Property
Professor Paul Goldstein discusses "The Americanization of Global Copyright Norms"
Professor Goldstein, Stella W. and Ira S. Lillick Professor of Law at Stanford Law School, is a globally recognized expert on intellectual property law and has published numerous works on copyright and intellectual property. In 2015, he was inducted by Intellectual Asset Management into the IP Hall of Fame. You can view Prof. Goldstein's talk on YouTube.
Meredith & Kip Frey Lecture in Intellectual Property
Professor David Nimmer discusses "Infringement 2.0"
Professor Nimmer is author of the highly-respected, comprehensive treatise Nimmer on Copyright. His talk looked at the current state of copyright law in the United States, including the 2013 Kirtsaeng decision, the potential impact of cloud computing/storage on the law, and other developments. You can read more about Prof. Nimmer's talk and view it here or view it on YouTube.
Meredith & Kip Frey Lecture in Intellectual Property
Through the Digital Transition: The Music Business in 2013
Cary Sherman, Chairman and CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America, delivered the Eleventh Annual Meredith & Kip Frey Lecture in Intellectual Property. Mr. Sherman discussed a broad range of issues surrounding music and copyright in the United States.» [ more information about the lecture | view the webcast ]
Authors Alliance panel discussion
Enhancing the Impact of Scholarship: How Authors Can Better Reach Readers in the New Publishing Economy
CSPD co-sponsors discussion of open access publishing and maximizing the impact of scholarly work - November 5 at 3:30pm in Duke's Bostock Library. » More information
Sixth Workshop on the Philosophy of Information
Information Access
May 15–16, 2014
The Center is co-sponsoring this program, presented by Duke University’s Future of Information Society Research Group, on May 15-16 at Duke’s Smith Warehouse, Bay 4. Director Jennifer Jenkins will join a panel on Information and Law with Professors Frederick Schauer (Virginia) and David Shanzer (Duke). Registration required. » more information here
Consent of the Networked with Rebecca MacKinnon
Faculty Co-Director James Boyle and author/activist Rebecca MacKinnon discuss the expanding struggle for control over the Internet and the implications for civil liberties, privacy and democracy both in the U.S. and worldwide. » View webcast on YouTube.
Theft! A History of Music
Professor Jennifer Jenkins, Director of the Center for the Study of Public Domain, discusses the history of musical borrowing and regulation from Plato to hip hop. » more information or view the webcast
 The Opposite(s) of Property: A Workshop
An interdisciplinary investigation of property and its borders [ more about the workshop | view the webcasts ]
 Professor James Boyle, "A Song's Tale: Mashups, Borrowing and the Law"
[ more information | view the webcast ]
Professor Michael Carroll: "Musicians in Copyright's Federated Domain"
View the webcast
Nobel Laureate Joseph Stiglitz: "The Economic Foundations of Intellectual Property"
View the webcast
 
Featured Publications
 No Law: Intellectual Property in the Image of an Absolute First Amendment
CSPD Faculty Co-Director David Lange and Professor H. Jefferson Powell explore the conflict between intellectual property and freedom of expression, and offer a new approach for providing incentives even within the limits imposed by an absolute First Amendment (order the book | read more about it)
Human Rights and Intellectual Property: Mapping the Global Interface
Professors Laurence Helfer (Duke Law School) and Graeme W. Austin (Melbourne Univ. & Victoria Univ. [Wellington]) book (Cambridge Univ. Press) examines human rights and intellectual property rights in critical areas such as healthcare, education, and indigenous peoples' rights, and presents a 'human rights framework for intellectual property' to enhance legal, institutional, and political action in these areas. » more
Tales from the Public Domain: Bound By Law? in Translation
The Center's graphic novel, Tales from the Public Domain: Bound By Law?, is available in several translations:
• German translation by Wolfgang Flechsenhaar, LL.M. [Lesen Sie das Comic-Buch, online oder PDF]
• Polish translation by Professor Ewa Ferenc-Szydełko and her students at the Opole University Faculty of Law and Administration [Przeczytaj komiks, internecie lub PDF]
• Brazilian Portuguese translation by Alexandre Marques [Leia o livro, online ou PDF]
• Italian translation by Deborah De Angelis of DDA Studio Legale and Lorenzo De Tomasi of Isotype.org [Leggi il fumetto, online o in formato PDF]
• French translation by Professor Jean-François Le Ruyet and his students at the University of Nantes Faculty of Law and Political Science [Lire la bande dessinée, en ligne ou en PDF]
• Portuguese translation by Ana Santos, S.J.D. candidate at Duke Law School [Ler o livro, on-line ou PDF]
Cultural Environmentalism @ 10
Collected articles explore the development and expansion of Professor James Boyle's "cultural environmentalism" metaphor over the past ten years. Read the symposium
International Public Goods and Transfer of Technology
"Systematic and comprehensive analysis from a legal and economic perspective" published by Cambridge University Press
Papers from Duke Conference on the Public Domain
Free digital versions of these papers are available. A special edition collection is available for purchase on amazon.com
See more Center publications.
Featured Projects
The Arts Project
 Professor James Boyle offers a sneak peek at the Center's new comic book
The co-authored book, to be published later this year, explores the history of music, ownership, and technology. » The Public Domain Blog
Comic Books
The Center's first graphic novel explores the impacts of intellectual property on creativity - specifically, documentary film.  Read the book! Or purchase Duke University Press's expanded version of the comic featuring a foreword by Oscar-winning filmmaker Davis Guggenheim and an introduction by award-winning novelist Cory Doctorow.
Translate the comic!
Download text-free versions of the "Bound By Law" comic for translation. The Center has several translations available online: Français | Italiano | Portuguesa | Portugues do Brasil | Polskie | Deutsche
Short movies
To Clear or not to Clear Filmmaker Chris Hegedus discusses how rights clearance practices have changed since the making of “Don’t Look Back”
Disappearing History? Filmmaker Orlando Bagwell talks about making “Citizen King” and why “Eyes on the Prize” is no longer in circulation
Great Composers Steal Composer Anthony Kelley visits classical and jazz traditions and explains why you can find a doppelganger for almost any tune.
Copyright Office
Center submits proposals to the Copyright Office on Access to Orphan Works and Orphan Films. Orphan Works- works still presumably under copyright, where the owner cannot be found- probably comprise the majority of the record of 20th century culture. (more)
IP and Documentary Film Chart
What types of  hurdles are faced by documentary filmmakers in trying to clear rights? What are some possible ways to solve these problems? Find answers to these questions on our explanatory chart of rights clearance problems and solutions.
 Conference
FRAMED! conference examined how law constructs and constrains culture.
Financial Times New Economy Policy Forum
Faculty Co-Director James Boyle is one of four regular columnists for the Financial Times online-edition's New Technology Policy Forum, where the columnists debate regulatory and legal issues generated by – and also shaping – high-tech industries. Recent columns:
Presumed guilty Responding to the recent NY Times op-ed, "Would the Bard Have Survived the Web?", and the call for increasing government power to shutdown websites suspected of infringing copyright.
Fantasy and reality in intellectual property policy On the continuing debate about "protecting" industries through increased intellectual property rights.
Who steals the gene from off the common On the importance of open research collaboration for science.
Monopolists of the Genetic Code? On the continuing importance of open innovation in synthetic biology after Craig Venter's announcement of the creation of a "synthetic cell."
Hot news: The next bad thing On attempts by newspapers to create intellectual property rights over breaking news.
Obama's mixed record on tech policy On the administration's positive moves on accessibility and its discouraging stance on transparency in ACTA negotiations
Dissociated Press On the Associated Press' outmoded business models and the realities of the new journalism
A Qualified Plan to Free Some 20th-Century Culture Professor Boyle discusses copyright's stranglehold on 20th-century culture and the proposed Google Book settlement
Obama in cyberspace Assessing the Obama administration's first actions on the new economy
What the information superhighways aren't built of... On how to think about applying the lessons of the Internet to scientific research
Misunderstanding open science On the Fair Copyright in Research Works Act recently introduced by Representative John Conyers that will transform access to federally funded information
Obama's team must fight 'cultural agoraphobia' On creating the World Wide Web and would we do it again?
Book-burning, legal style On the cultural effects of copyright term extensions, particularly in light of the proposed European Union extension of copyright for sound recordings
A creative coup for the trainspotters On the recent decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit upholding the validity of ‘open source’ licensing agreements
A Czar for the Digital Peasants On the Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (“Pro-IP” Act) that was recently signed into law
Sacrificing at the alter of patents On WHO efforts to encourage drug development for diseases of the global poor through alternatives to patents
And the band played on... On the failure of governments to heed evidence when deciding intellectual property policy
 
 
Duke University
Accessibility Statement | Contact Duke Law | Duke Law Home
 