Fandom | About Us
Skip to Page Contents
        What is Fandom?
      
        About Us
      
        Advertise
      
        Careers
      
        News
      
ABOUT US
 
our mission
Fandom powers fan experiences - Our mission is to understand, inform, entertain and celebrate fans by building the best entertainment and gaming communities, content, services and experiences.
Fandom's Foundations
Founded in 2004 by Jimmy Wales (yes, the Wikipedia guy) and Angela Beesley Starling (a British web entrepreneur), Fandom (originally Wikicities, and later Wikia) was a new platform that built off the core technology powering Wikipedia in order to super serve the needs of an incredibly passionate set of customers: fans!
 
Before Fandom, fans couldn't dive deep into the lore or world of their favorite tv show, movie or game. For example, fans who visited the Luke Skywalker page on Wikipedia would only learn about Mark Hamill. They wanted a place where they could learn more about Luke, the character, as if he were a real person (and dig into the rest of the Star Wars Universe while they were at it). If Wikipedia is the "encyclopedia", then Fandom is the rest of the library - a deep repository of information about every fictional universe.
 
Speaking of Star Wars, one of our earliest wikis was Wookieepedia.By 2007, Wookieepedia was home to over 50,000 articles. It was so complex and authoritative that the Star Wars creative team themselves began using it as a resource for their projects. Today, the 167,000 articles on Wookieepedia make up one of the most trafficked fan communities on the internet. Now imagine that kind of depth of information across every fictional universe... ever, and you're starting to get a handle on Fandom!
 
Of course, fans want to do much more than just learn about their favorite fictional worlds. They want to play, connect, create, shop and celebrate. Over time, Fandom has added new services that help fans get into what they love in new ways: GameSpot and TV Guide help fans navigate the ever expanding entertainment and gaming universe. The ScreenJunkies channel connects fans to the honest, and sometimes hilarious world of fan conversations. And Metacritic, Bingebot and Fanatical help fans find new favorites in TV and games that they didn't even know they were looking for.
 
Fandom started out with about 1,500 pages from a core group of enthusiastic fan contributors. Over 15 years later, Fandom encompasses over 40 million content pages in over 80 languages on 250,000 wikis about every fictional universe ever created. Fandom is where fans find themselves through entertainment. We provide a judgement-free zone where people can discover new favorites, go as deep as they want to and engage with other fans. And we can do it across virtually any entertainment or gaming property out there.
 
        OUR FEARLESS LEADERS!
      
        Fandom's leadership team is dedicated to serving fans of all types. The team works together to ensure the company remains a place that celebrates individuality and passion, where you can log into a Zoom meeting dressed as your favorite Battlestar Galactica character and no one bats an eyelash.
      
Perkins Miller
CEO
Jeremy Steinberg
Chief Revenue Officer
Michael Chiang
Chief Business Officer
Stephanie Fried
Chief Marketing Officer
Adil Ajmal
Chief Technology Officer
Peter Mansour
Chief Product Officer
Ed Lu
Chief Financial Officer
Kerri Corley
Chief People Officer
Des Cussen
General Counsel
follow us
    twitter
  
    instagram
  
    facebook
  
    Linkedin
  
Explore Properties
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
TV Guide
Metacritic
Giant Bomb
Muthead
Futhead
Overview
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms Of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Community
Community Central
Support
Help
Do Not Sell My Info
Advertise
Media Kit
Contact
Follow Us
View our twitter
View our youtube
View our instagram
View our linkedin