
August Climate History for Port-of-spain | Holiday | Trinidad and Tobago
Skip to Content
 
WEATHER API
BLOG
MY ACCOUNT
 
BUSINESS SERVICES
HOME
TERMS OF USE
CONTACT
FREE WEATHER
Home > Holiday Destinations > Trinidad and Tobago > Port-of-spain > Climate Profile

        Fast Forecast
Search Best Deals

Hotels

Holidays

Flights

Car Hire

        Search by Category

Local Weather

Holiday Weather

Marine Weather

Hill & Mountain Weather

Where's Good Weather

        Search by Sport

Ski Resort Weather

Golf Course Weather

Motor Racing Weather

Fishing Weather

Horse Racing Weather

Football Weather

Cricket Weather

Rugby Weather

        Weather Charts

  » Satellite Images

  » Forecast Cloud

  » Rain Snow & Isobar

  » Wind Flow

  » Ski Resort Snowfall

  » Surface Air Temp

  » Upper Air Temp

        Services

Weather API

Free Plugins/Widgets

Commercial Weather
HOLIDAY WEATHER
Weather data for the travel industry
Free Weather Plugin

                                Add this forecast to your website 
                              
close
Remove forecast
Are you sure you want to remove the forecast?
 
                                
close
WEATHER FOR YOUR FAVOURITE LOCATIONS
Holiday WeatherPort-of-spain Climate HistoryPast weather including monthly averages for Port-of-spainTrinidad and Tobago
Add to favourites Print
Charts
Forecast
Latest
Climate
Risk
LocationMap
Charts
Country Overview For Trinidad and TobagoThe climate in Trinidad and Tobago is  typically tropical; rainy season (June to December). The terrain: mostly plains with some hills and low mountains. For Port Of Spain  in January the daily average maximum temperatures is 31°C with the average minimum 21°C, while in June the average maximum is 32°C with a minimum of 24°C. The wettest month for Port Of Spain  is July with an average of 308.1mm of precipitation falling while the driest month is March with 30.1mm falling.
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
 HISTORICAL MONTHLY AVERAGES FOR AUGUSTThe information presented below gives detailed historical monthly average weather conditions along with exceptional weather occurrences. To maintain relevance to current weather trends the displayed information has been calculated using data collected over the past two decades. The climate profile is taken from closest available data source to Port-of-spain.TemperatureThroughout the month of August daytime temperatures will generally reach highs of around 33°C that's about 91°F. At night the average minimum temperature drops down to around 23°C, that's 74°F.In recent times the highest recorded temperature in August has been 39°C that's 101°F, with the lowest recorded temperature 21°C, about 70°F.Relative HumidityThe average daily relative humidity for August is around 83%.Heat IndexThe Heat Index is a measure of how hot it feels when relative humidity is added to actual air temperature. From this a comfort level is calculated providing categories on how heat conditions might adversely affect someone.Comfort Levels: Given average maximum temperatures and humidity levels you can expect dangerous heat conditions. Sunstroke, muscle cramps and heat exhaustion are likely. Heatstroke is possible with prolonged exposure and/or physical activity (see heat index for more information).PrecipitationThe average monthly amount of precipitation has been recorded at around 283 mm, that's 11 inches. Throughout the month you can expect to see rain or drizzle falling on 22 days of the month.Estimated Hours of Sunshine per DayWe calculate sunshine hours per day using our past forecast data. For August expect the sun to shine for an average of 9 hours per day. This represents the average number of hours in the daytime that the sun is visible and not obscured by cloud e.g. the average number of hours the sun is actually out and shining. Note we calculate hours of sunshine per day using our past forecast data, not observation data, thus it is an estimate and not actual.WindThe average daily wind speed in August has been around 7 km/h, that’s the equivalent to about 4 mph, or 4 knots. In recent years the maximum sustained wind speed has reached 80 km/h, that’s the equivalent of around 49 mph, or 43 knots.FogOn average the month of August is affected by foggy conditions on less than 1 day.SWIMMING AND WATER TEMPERATUREThe temperature of water an individual will feel comfortable in is very much personal preference. What feels unbearably cold to one person for a swim might be fine for another. We have created our own Swimming Water Temperature Index offering a guide to water temperature and comfort levels for swimming;In August, for the nearest coastal location, the temperature of the sea averages around 29°C, that's 84° Fahrenheit. Our index indicates for swimming in this is considered very warm and would be enjoyed by all. With this temperature you can stay active in the water for extended periods of time without feeling uncomfortable.
 
YEARLY TRENDS: WEATHER AVERAGES & EXTREMES
The following charts show yearly weather trends with information on monthly weather averages and extremes.
Temperature
The chart below plots the average high and low temperature for each month of the year. It also shows the maximum and minimum recorded temperatures.
 Precipitation AmountThe chart below plots the average monthly precipitation amount.
 Rain daysThe chart below plots the average number of days in any month that you can expect to see rain falling.
 
Wind Speed
The chart below plots the average daily wind speed you can expect for any month. It also shows the maximum recorded sustained wind speed for each month. 
 
About Us
Contact Us
Our Weather
Advertise with us
Privacy policy
Terms and Conditions
tel: +44 (0) 141 628 7527
Company registration: 238 258 (Scotland)
Vat No. 813677614
WEB-02
        
close
Get In Touch
 
 