ဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာ:Font - ဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာ
မာတိကာသို့ ခုန်သွားရန်
ပင်မ မီနူး
ပင်မ မီနူး
ဘေးဘားသို့ရွှေ့ပါ
ပၞုက်
သ္ၚိအင်
မုက်လိက်တမ်ပါင်မုက် ဂကောံသဘင် လၟုဟ်ဂမၠိုင်မပြံင်လှာဲ လၟုဟ်မုက်လိက် ဇဟောမ်ရီုကဵုဒါန်
အရေဝ်ဘာသာဂမၠိုင်
ဤဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာရှိ ဘာသာစကားလင့်ခ်များသည် ဆောင်းပါးခေါင်းစဉ်မှ စာမျက်နှာ၏ ထိပ်ဆုံးတွင် တည်ရှိကြသည်။ ထိပ်ဆုံးသို့သွားရန်
ဂၠာဲ
ဂၠာဲ
ခၞံကၠောန် အကံက်လုပ်လံက်အေန်
ကိရိယာ သွက်ပူဂဵု
 ခၞံကၠောန် အကံက် လုပ်လံက်အေန်
ထွက်ပြီးသား တည်းဖြတ်သူများအတွက် စာမျက်နှာများ ပိုမို လေ့လာရန်
ကမၠောန်ဂမၠိုင်ဓရီုကျာ
မာတိကာ
ဘေးဘားသို့ရွှေ့ပါ
ပၞုက်
စနူကၠာ
၁Why Unicode?
Toggle Why Unicode? subsection
၁.၁Why use Unicode?
၁.၂Why not Zawgyi?
၂External links
Toggle External links subsection
၂.၁Unicode Myanmar/Burmese fonts
၂.၂Other sites
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
ဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာ:Font
၃ အရေဝ်ဘာသာဂမၠိုင်
ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏမြန်မာဘာသာၽႃႇသႃႇတႆး 
ပလေဝ် လေန်ဂမၠိုင်
မုက်လိက် ပရဝ်ဂျေတ်သဳကၠဳ
ဘာသာ မန်
ဗှ်ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်ထ္ၜး လၟေင်အပြံင်အလှာဲ
ကိရိယာ
ကြိယာဂမၠိုၚ်
ဘေးဘားသို့ရွှေ့ပါ
ပၞုက်
ဆောင်ရွက်ချက်များ
ဗှ်ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်ထ္ၜး လၟေင်အပြံင်အလှာဲ
နာနာ
မု အဆက်အစပ် ကုအရာဂှ်ရောတြးပတိတ် အပြံင်အလှာဲပတိုန်ပၠုပ် ဝှာင်မုက်လိက် တၟေင်ဌာန်ဒတန်လေန် လၟိုန်မုက်လိက် ပရိုင်တင်ဂၞင်ဝဳကဳဒါတာ item
ပရေန်/ပတိတ်
ခၞံကၠောန် လိက်ကၞပ် မွဲတံင်လုပ် ကေတ် PDFမူလိက် မပြေန်ပ္တိတ်ဂွံ
နူ ဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာ
မုက်လိက်ဏအ်နွံကိစ္စကဵုဘာသာအင်္ဂလိက်ရ၊ လ္ပကၠာဲဘာသာညိအဴ။This article is written in English for a specific purpose, please do not translate it. ဤစာမျက်နှာသည် ရည်ရွယ်ချက်ရှိလို့ အင်္ဂလိပ်စာနှင့်ရေးထားသည်။ ဘာသာမပြန်ပါနှင့်။ บทความนี้เขียนเป็นภาษาอังกฤษเพื่อวัตถุประสงค์เฉพาะ กรุณาอย่าแปลมัน この記事は特定の目的のために英語で書かれています、 翻訳しないでください。 이 기사는 특정 목적을 위해 영어로 작성되었습니다,번역하지 마세요.
This page is about the encoding and fonts that are used on the Myanmar Wikipedia. To get started right away, just skip to the external links to download a Unicode 5.1 font, install it and join the community.
For more help, consult here: Wikipedia:Help Mon. Thanks you
Why Unicode?[ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်]
Unicode is a standard that defines how text should be saved into data and how it is read and written. Almost every script in the world, including Burmese, is defined in the Unicode Standard. Carefully designed by experts of the field around the world, this international standard is supported by virtually all the latest platforms--not only in major operating systems like Windows, Mac, and Linux but also in OSes of mobile phones and many electronic devices. The Unicode Standard is the most well-known encoding scheme to support the largest number of scripts/languages in a single page of code. More information is available at Unicode.org. See discussion on Unicode usage in Wikipedia. All Wikipedias, including the English language Wikipedia, use Unicode as it is Wikimedia Foundation policy.
The following table shows the differences in language support between Zawgyi-One and Unicode fonts. Zawgyi-One and other pseudo-Unicode fonts require nearly twice as many characters as Unicode fonts to support just one language: Burmese. Unlike Zawgyi-One and other pseudo-Unicode fonts, Unicode fonts use intelligent rendering to stack consonants and combine diacritics.
Unicode versus Zawgyi-One
Unicode
Zawgyi-One
Bigger version here. Uncolored version here.
  Myanmar
  Shan
  Mon
  Sanskrit and Pali
  S'gaw Karen
  Western Pwo Karen
  Eastern Pwo Karen
  Geba Karen
  Kayah
  Rumai Palaung
  No character
Bigger version here. Uncolored version here.
  Myanmar
  No character for pseudo-Unicode
  No character
Why use Unicode?[ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်]
It is the international accepted standard by the World Wide Web Consortium, the main international standards organization for the World Wide Web.
The fonts necessary to view and edit are freely available.
Search is seamless with Unicode.
Unicode makes it extremely easy to translate the Wikipedia's interface.
Unicode fonts support 11 languages that use the Myanmar script:
Burmese
2 liturgical languages: Pali and Sanskrit
8 minority languages: Mon, Shan, Kayah, four Karen languages and Rumai Palaung
Why not Zawgyi?[ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်]
Although Zawgyi is currently the most widely used solution for input in Myanmar-language websites, it is not Unicode-compliant and does not meet the standards set by the Unicode Standard (nor does it meet the W3C standards, which define the standards for the World Wide Web). Also, there are multiple ways of storing text, which makes search challenging.
However, for those who use Zawgyi and would like to contribute to the Myanmar Wikipedia, several converters (Zawgyi → Unicode 5.1) are available below:
Burmese Encoding Converter Bot (online)
Kanaung Converter Engine (program)
DocChartConvert (program)
An online typewriter that supports Zawgyi as well as Unicode fonts is available at Burglish System tester
Those who have Zawgyi or pseudo-Unicode fonts in their computers find their computers may display incorrect text and might affect other Unicode-supported applications.
There are serious problems with encoding and typing in Zawgyi.
When users type in Zawgyi, typing in different ordering will create different words. These different words, even though they may render the same, are not stored the same (so search is impossible if words are typed in different ordering). On the other hand, in Unicode, there is only correct way to store text, and incorrect ordering in typing is visible as you type (this means that searching for text is more difficult with Zawgyi).Unicode stores text in only one order and render correctly: Zawgyi can store text in several ways but superficially appear correct: 
Many Zawgyi users type the number "zero" when they intend to input the consonant "wa." This creates a problem, because converters cannot intelligently find the instances where "zero" is intended and "wa" is intended. When using Unicode, "wa" and "zero" are separate (intelligent rendering shows you if you have typed "zero" instead of "wa").Unicode can intelligently tell apart wa and zero: Zawgyi cannot intelligently render zero and wa separately: 
Zawgyi uses extra code points which are reserved for minority languages of Myanmar (Shan, Mon, Pwo Karen, S'gaw Karen, Geba Karen, Kayah and Rumai Palaung, as well as Sanskrit and Pali). This creates a conflict, because Unicode has reserved those points to support minority languages in Myanmar, not for Burmese characters that should be intelligently rendered by Unicode engines.
Zawgyi uses reserved code points for stacking Burmese consonants and creating combinations of diacritics and medials, whereas Unicode smartly renders these, so fewer code points are required for one language.Unicode can intelligently render yayit according to letter width with just one symbol: Zawgyi needs to use two different symbols (total 8 different symbols for short head and short leg forms) for yayit: 
External links[ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်]
Unicode Myanmar/Burmese fonts[ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်]
These are links for fonts that conform to the Burmese script encoded in Unicode 5.1 and above (all of them are available for free) - 
Pyidaungsu Font - Myanmar unicode font
Keyboard input software
Padauk font ver 3.003 - from SIL International.
Myanmar3 variants font - from the Myanmar Unicode and NLP Research Centre.
Noto Sans Myanmar from Google
Myanmar Unicode Keyboard for Mac User
Other sites[ပလေဝ်ဒါန် တမ်ကၞက်]
Thanlwin Soft - useful Unicode site that provides alphabetization, keyboard input methods, legacy font conversion software and more resources
Myanmar character notes - describes how the Myanmar script is used for the Burmese language in the context of the Unicode Myanmar block
Myanmar character picker - online Myanmar Unicode input utility
Unicode Text Editor  No install and compatible to Burmese Standard font - direct download
Eng to Burmese Dictionary instant fetch - Firefox extension, Search Engines and others
ကလေင်သီကေတ်လဝ် နူ "https://mnw.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=ဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာ:Font&oldid=33964"
ကဏ္ဍ: ဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာယူနဳကုဒ်ဗၟာ
 မုက်လိက်ဏအ် လက္ကရဴအိုတ် ပလေဝ်ဒါန်လဝ် ပ္ဍဲ ၁၈ အဝ်ဂေတ် ၂၀၂၂ ပ္ဍဲ ၀၁:၃၄
လိက်ဝွံ နကဵု သၟဝ်သၞောဝ်လာင်ဇြေန်Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike Licenseဂှ် ကလိဂွံမာန်တုဲ၊ တင်စဳပၞောန်တၞဟ်လေဝ် နွံမာန်ကီုရ။ 
ဆက်ဗှ်သၞောဝ် မရပ်စပ်ပိုယ်ညိ။
ပဝ်လသဳ မဆေင်ကဵု အခေါင်အရာပူဂဵု
ပရူ ဝဳကဳပဳဒဳယာ
ဒဒှ်မဟွံဆက်စပ်
Code of Conduct
ထ္ၜး နကဵုမဝ်ဗိုင်
ညးမခၞံဗဒှ်သပ်ဝဴဂမၠိုင်
စရင်အင်
ကောက်ကဳ ဗမံက်ထ္ၜး
Toggle limited content width