Second language as an exemptor from sociocultural norms. Emotion-Related Language Choice revisited
  
    
    
    
    
      
  Second language as an exemptor from sociocultural norms. Emotion-Related Language Choice revisited
    
  
PLoS One. 2013 Dec 11;8(12):e81225.
        doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081225.
      
        eCollection 2013.
      
            Authors
          
Marta Gawinkowska 
                1
              , Michał B Paradowski 
                2
              , Michał Bilewicz 
                1
              
            Affiliations
          
1 Department of Psychology, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
2 Institute of Applied Linguistics, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
    
      PMID:
    
  
      24349044
    
    
      PMCID:
    
  
      PMC3859501
    
    
      DOI:
    
  
      10.1371/journal.pone.0081225
    
        Abstract
        
      
      
      Bilinguals often switch languages depending on what they are saying. According to the Emotion-Related Language Choice theory, they find their second language an easier medium of conveying content which evokes strong emotions. The first language carries too much emotional power, which can be threatening for the speaker. In a covert experiment, bilingual Polish students translated texts brimming with expletives from Polish into English and vice versa. In the Polish translations, the swear word equivalents used were weaker than in the source text; in the English translations, they were stronger than in the original. These results corroborate the ERLC theory. However, the effect was only observed for ethnophaulisms, i.e. expletives directed at social groups. It turns out that the main factor triggering the language choice in bilinguals is not necessarily the different emotional power of both languages, but social and cultural norms. 
    
        Publication types
      
                
                  
  Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
                
              
        MeSH terms
      
                  
                    
  Adult
                  
                
                  
                    
  Choice Behavior
                  
                
                  
                    
  Emotions
                  
                
                  
                    
  Female
                  
                
                  
                    
  Humans
                  
                
                  
                    
  Language*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Male
                  
                
                  
                    
  Multilingualism*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Translations
                  
                
                  
                    
  Young Adult
                  
                
        Grant support
      
The research and publication were supported by a Foundation for Polish Science FOCUS grant to the third author and by public research funding BSt at the Faculty of Psychology, University of Warsaw. The funders had no role in the study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.