Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics181 FollowersRecent papers in Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleDUAL LOOP COMPENSATOR FOR EFFICIENT QUADRATIC BOOST CONVERTERTo overcome the disadvantages of higher duty ratio of normal boost converter a quadratic boost converter is proposed. This has been generalised to the n th order boost converter. The dynamic performance of the quadratic boost converter... moreTo overcome the disadvantages of higher duty ratio of normal boost converter a quadratic boost converter is proposed. This has been generalised to the n th order boost converter. The dynamic performance of the quadratic boost converter for the changes in the input voltage, reference voltage and the load is simulated. The output voltage is traced to the desired value with the help of the closed loop controlled compensator for the perturbations caused in the input, load and reference voltages. The compensation includes a multi loop control with inner current loop and an outer voltage loop control. The inner current loop provides the benefits of setting the reference voltage and outer voltage loop provides a good regulation of the output voltage. A design oriented analog circuit of the closed loop controller is produced with simulation results.Save to LibraryDownloadby gopal krishna•  4  Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Power Electronics Converter, Power ConvertersZCS interleaved boost converter with saturable inductors for reverse-recovery reductionConventional DC-DC step-up converters present problems of low efficiency and low power density because of: 1. High power losses caused by hard-switching and reverse-recovery phenomenon. 2. High conduction losses produced by large peak... moreConventional DC-DC step-up converters present problems of low efficiency and low power density because of: 1. High power losses caused by hard-switching and reverse-recovery phenomenon. 2. High conduction losses produced by large peak currents when the converter has to operate at a high duty cycle. 3. Bulky and heavy cooling systems needed to dissipate the semiconductors losses. And, 4. Big and heavy capacitors and inductors required for smoothing and decoupling. Therefore, a novel Zero-Current-Switching two-phase interleaved boost converter with saturable inductors for reverse-recovery reduction is proposed. This converter can reduce the switching losses in the semiconductors due to the effect of the saturable inductors. Moreover, downsizing of the inductors and the output capacitor can be achieved due to the interleaving technique and the use of saturable inductors. In addition, high step-up operation can be achieved due to the presence of tapped-inductors. In this paper, the circuit configuration and the operation principle of the proposed converter and the reverse-recovery reduction behavior are presented. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed converter is experimentally validated with a 600W prototype where a recovery-reduction of 58% was achieved.Save to LibraryDownloadby Wilmar  Martinez•  3  Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, zero-current  switching (ZCS), zero-voltage switching (ZVS).Design and Simulation of Self Lift Positive Output luo converter using Incremental Conductance Algorithm for Photovoltaic ApplicationsSave to LibraryDownloadby chilambarasan madhappan•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsDesign and Simulation of Interleaved Coupled Inductor Boost Converter with a Common Active ClampSave to LibraryDownloadby chilambarasan madhappan•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsImproved Transient Response for Three-Level DC-DC Buck ConverterTransient response of three level buck converter depends on the slew rate of filter inductance. The slew rate of filter inductor can be increased either by decreasing the inductance magnitude or by increasing the voltage across the... moreTransient response of three level buck converter depends on the slew rate of filter inductance. The slew rate of filter inductor can be increased either by decreasing the inductance magnitude or by increasing the voltage across the inductor. Decreasing the inductance magnitude results in higher losses in the converter due to increase of inductor current ripples. In a three level buck converter, the voltage across the inductor during step up load transient is 0.5Vin-Vout, while during step down load transient is –Vout. For smaller duty cycle applications, three level buck converter offers slow step up and step down load transient response because of limited magnitude of voltage across the inductor. In this paper a new three level buck converter topology is proposed, which will increase the magnitude of voltage across the inductor during load transients and thus will improve the transient response. After load transient, the converter will recover to normal steady state condition and will behave just like a three level converter in steady state. Theoretical and simulation results are presented to show the effectiveness ofproposed topology in terms of settling time for step up and step down load transient response. Keywords-Slew rate, 3-level converter, switching stresses, Settling time, Voltage overshoot and undershootSave to LibraryDownloadby Osama  Jamil•  8  Electrical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsAn Interleaved High Step-Up DC-DC Converter Based on Combination of Coupled Inductor and Built-in Transformer for Photovoltaic-Grid Electric Vehicle DC Fast Charging SystemsThis paper introduces a high step-up DC-DC converter for the integration of the photovoltaic (PV) energy into the electric vehicle (EV) DC fast charging systems. The proposed converter has an interleaved structure using the integration of... moreThis paper introduces a high step-up DC-DC converter for the integration of the photovoltaic (PV) energy into the electric vehicle (EV) DC fast charging systems. The proposed converter has an interleaved structure using the integration of coupled inductor (CI), built-in transformer (BIT), and switched-capacitor concepts to achieve high-voltage gain, low current and voltage stresses on the power switches and diodes, and high efficiency. The reverse-recovery problem of all diodes is solved due to the presence of the leakage inductances of CI and BIT. Operation modes and steady-state analysis of the proposed converter in the continuous conduction mode (CCM) are presented. To verify the merits of the proposed converter, a comparison between the proposed converter and other related converters is performed. Furthermore, an 800 W converter with the input voltage of 40 V and the output voltage of 800 V is simulated in PLECS Blockset to validate the theoretical analyses.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramin Rahimi•  9  Photovoltaics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Power Electronics, renewable energy systems, electric vehicles, Power Electronics ConverterRANCANG BANGUN NON-INVERTING BUCK-BOOST CONVERTER (NIBB) SEBAGAI PENGISIAN ACCUMULATOR PADA SISTEM PLTS RUMAHPengaplikasian energi terbarukan dapat dimana saja termasuk pada rumah tangga, salah satu sumber energi yang bisa dimanfaatkan adalah energi surya dengan menggunakan panel surya. Tegangan pada panel surya tentunya bergantung dari radiasi... morePengaplikasian energi terbarukan dapat dimana saja termasuk pada rumah tangga, salah satu sumber energi yang bisa dimanfaatkan adalah energi surya dengan menggunakan panel surya. Tegangan pada panel surya tentunya bergantung dari radiasi surya yang diterima oleh panel surya sehingga dibutuhkan DC to DC converter sebagai penstabil tegangan. Pada penelitian ini DC to DC converter yang digunakan adalah Non-Inverting Buck-Boost Converter (NIBB) berbasis arduino yang akan menstabilkan tegangan panel surya, sehingga dapat digunakan untuk pengisian accu 12 V 40 Ah. Hasil penelitian menunjukan peralatan Non-Inverting Buck-Boost Converter (NIBB) dapat digunakan untuk pengisian aki 12 Volt 40 ah dengan tegangan awal aki sebesar pada tanggal 16 Juni sebesar 11,86 Volt dan tegangan akhir aki setelah dicharge sebesar 12,86 Volt dengan daya pengisian ratarata sebesar 47,50 Watt sedangkan daya solar panel rata-rata sebesar 56,68 Watt sehingga efesiensi ratarata dari perangkat sebesar 82,75 %.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hidayatur Rahman•  3  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Battery, Solar PanelFerrite Toroidal Inductor DesignSave to LibraryDownloadby HERNAN TACCA•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsAnalysis of Diode Reverse Recovery Effect on the Improvement of Soft-Switching Range in Zero-Voltage-Transition Bidirectional ConvertersIn this paper, a prevalent type of zero-voltage- transition bidirectional converters is analyzed with the in- clusion of the reverse recovery effect of the diodes. The main drawback of this type is missing the soft-switching condition of... moreIn this paper, a prevalent type of zero-voltage- transition bidirectional converters is analyzed with the in- clusion of the reverse recovery effect of the diodes. The main drawback of this type is missing the soft-switching condition of the main switches at operating duty cycles smaller than 0.5. As a result, soft-switching conditionwould be lost in one of the bidirectional converter operating modes (forward or reverse modes) since the duty cycles of the forward and reverse modes are complement of each other. Analysis shows that the rectifying diode reverse recovery would assist in providing the soft-switching con- dition for the duty cycles below 0.5, which is done by a proper design of the snubber capacitor and with no limitation on the rectifying diode current rate at turn-off. Hence, the problems associated with the soft-switching range and the reverse recovery of the rectifying diode are solved simultaneously, and soft-switching condition for both operating modes of the bidirectional converter is achieved with no extra auxiliary components and no complex control. The theoretical analysis for a bidirectional buck and boost converter is presented in detail, and the validity of the theoretical analysis is justified using the experimental results of a 250-W 135- to 200-V prototype converter.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Reza Mohammadi•  4  Power Electronics, Renewable Energy Systems, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Bidirectional ConvertersA Study on the Design Aspects of Interleaved Boost Converter for Telecommunication SystemsThis paper highlights the importance of interleaved boost converter for Telecommunication Systems. The design aspects of interleaved boost converter with zero-voltage switching (ZVS) and zero-current switching (ZCS) is discussed in... moreThis paper highlights the importance of interleaved boost converter for Telecommunication Systems. The design aspects of interleaved boost converter with zero-voltage switching (ZVS) and zero-current switching (ZCS) is discussed in detail. The study includes the description of switch mode power supply, DC-DC Converter along with the characteristics ofpower MOSFET switches and soft switching principle. The selection of inductor, output capacitor, and freewheeling diodes,and main switches, number of phases and choice of duty ratio for the proposed IBC in telecom sector is investigated.Theoretical analysis is carried out to emphasize the significance of IBC as a suitable power converter for telecommunication systems.Save to LibraryDownloadby IJIRAE - International Journal of Innovative Research in Advanced Engineering•  15  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Non inverting buck boost converter, DC to DC ConverterAnálisis de Topologías de Redes Snubber para Transistores de Potencia en Fuentes ConmutadasThe purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the advantages provided by the snubber networks implemented in the switching devices of switching power supplies. Will approach different topologies that perform different functions and the... moreThe purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the advantages provided by the snubber networks implemented in the switching devices of switching power supplies. Will approach different topologies that perform different functions and the equations that determine the value of the components that make up the networks, supported by practical circuits and simulation of the same, showing a substantial improvement in the performance of switching devices, allowing an increased efficiency of the power supply.Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Ignacio Morales•  4  Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Switching Mode Power Supplies, Snubber NetworkCIRCUITO DE CONTROLE COM DSC PARA UPS DE 3 kW, TIPO PASSIVE STANDBY COM INTEGRAÇÃO DE PAINEL FOTOVOLTAICOEste trabalho apresenta o desenvolvimento de um circuito de controle para um sistema de UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supplies), do tipo Standby, conforme IEC 62040-3. A implementação do projeto utiliza como elemento de controle o... moreEste trabalho apresenta o desenvolvimento de um circuito de controle para um sistema de UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supplies), do tipo Standby, conforme IEC 62040-3.  A implementação do projeto utiliza como elemento de controle o controlador de sinais digitais (DSC) 56F8006, o qual é responsável em monitorar as condições do sinal da rede elétrica da concessionária; sincronizar e habilitar dos circuitos; controlar o estado do comutador; efetuar o controle de carregamento do banco de baterias por histerese, por meio de painel fotovoltaico ou pela rede concessionária de energia elétrica; e ainda implementar uma interface homem-máquina (IHM) por meio de um display LCD, uma interface de comunicação serial RS-232 e recursos áudio visuais. Os resultados do sistema com o DSC denotam um tempo de comutação pequeno e satisfatório, podendo assim obter um sistema que comute em menos de 10 milissegundos melhorando de forma considerável seu desempenho em relação a outras topologias existentes no mercado.Save to LibraryDownloadby Willian Bispo•  6  Photovoltaics, Digital Control, Photovoltaic Solar Cells, Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsA novel type high-efficiency high-frequency-linked full-bridge DC-DC converter operating under secondary-side series resonant principle for high-power PV generationThis paper is mainly concerned with the development of a new state-of-the-art prototype, high-efficiency, phase-shift, soft-switching, pulse-modulated, full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which is... moreThis paper is mainly concerned with the development of a new state-of-the-art prototype, high-efficiency, phase-shift, soft-switching, pulse-modulated, full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which is designed for utility-grid-tied photovoltaic (PV) power inverters. The proposed high-frequency transformer (HFTR) link DC-DC converter topology is based on a new conceptual secondary-side series resonant principle and its inherent nature. All the active power switches on the HFTR primary side can achieve lossless capacitive snubber-based zero-voltage switching (ZVS) with the aid of transformer parasitic inductances. Moreover, passive power switches on its secondary side can also perform ZVS and zero-current switching (ZCS) transitions for input voltage and load variations. First, the operation principle of the newly proposed DC-DC converter and some of its noteworthy features are described in this paper on the basis of the results of analysis by simulation. Then, the experimental setup of the DC-DC converter with an output of 5 kW treated here is demonstrated and its experimental results are discussed from a practical viewpoint. Finally, some comparative evaluations between simulation and experimental data are discussed and considered, together with future works. © 2012 IEEE. http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6477251Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Saad  Mekhilef•  15  Geometry And Topology, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power transformersManuel ADC 1STE 2022-EleveSave to LibraryDownloadby EL MOSTAFA MAHFOUDI•  12  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, grid connected PV inverters, Multilevel Inverters: A Comparative Study of Pulse Width Modulation Techniques, Z Source InverterAnalysis, Design and Implementation of Zero-Current-Switching Resonant Converter DC-DC Buck ConverterSave to LibraryDownloadby Irfan jamil•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsDesign and Analysis of MPPT Based PV System Using Boost And SEPIC ConverterThe solar pv based power generation system shows tremendous growth in the present scenario when compared to other renewable energy based power generation. The focus of researchers in this area was increased in recent years. The output... moreThe solar pv based power generation system showstremendous growth in the present scenario when compared toother renewable energy based power generation. The focus ofresearchers in this area was increased in recent years. Theoutput voltage in solar cell is of low range and to improve thatDC/DC converters are used. This paper focuses to design andanalyze the performance of boost and SEPIC DC/DCconverter, used in MPPT based PV system. Perturb andObserve (P&O) technique used to generate duty cycle ofconverters under different irradiance changing condition. Thestudy is performed using MATLAB/Simulink for the PVsystem and it has been observed that the SEPIC producesbetter results compared with boost converter.Save to LibraryDownloadby Saravanan 14phd0365 and +1Ramesh Babu  N•  2  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, solar PV power plantsInterleaved Zero-Current-Transition Buck ConverterSave to LibraryDownloadby Shiva Kumar•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsAnalysis and Simulation of Interleaved Boost Converter for Automotive applicationsSave to LibraryDownloadby farag alargt•  7  Electronic Engineering, Telecommunications Engineering, Communication, Renewable EnergyNew Family of Zero-Voltage-Transition PWM Bidirectional Converters With Coupled InductorsIn this paper, a new family of zero-voltage-transition bidirectional converters using coupled inductors is introduced. By applying two auxiliary switches and coupled inductors, softswitching condition is achieved for all semiconductor... moreIn this paper, a new family of zero-voltage-transitionbidirectional converters using coupled inductors is introduced.By applying two auxiliary switches and coupled inductors, softswitchingcondition is achieved for all semiconductor elementsregardless of the power flow direction. Moreover, the presenceof coupled inductors provides significant reduction in the convertervolume, since all the converter inductors are implementedon a single core. Also, all semiconductor elements benefit fromsoft-switching condition in full duty cycle range, and thus, highefficiency is achieved for full line voltage range. No extra voltageand current stresses on the main switches and the ease of controlare the other properties of the proposed converters. The proposedbidirectional buck and boost converter is fully analyzed for bothbuck and boost operating modes. The validity of the theoreticalanalysis is justified using the experimental results of a 240-W50–100-V prototype converter.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Reza Mohammadi•  5  Power Electronics, Renewable Energy Systems, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Bidirectional ConvertersLow Complexity Model Predictive Control In Power Electronics and Power SystemsSave to LibraryDownloadby Tobias Geyer•  11  Power Electronics, Model Predictive Control of Hybrid Systems, Model Predictive Control, Hybrid SystemsQuasi-Z-Source Half-Bridge DC-DC Converter for Photovoltaic ApplicationsThis paper presents a novel quasi-Z-source halfbridge galvanically isolated DC-DC converter intended for the photovoltaic applications. The topology could be envisioned as an alternative to the boost half-bridge DC-DC converter but the... moreThis paper presents a novel quasi-Z-source halfbridgegalvanically isolated DC-DC converter intended for thephotovoltaic applications. The topology could be envisioned as an alternative to the boost half-bridge DC-DC converter but thebenefit of its symmetric structure reduces the threat oftransformer saturation due to the dc flux. The proposedconverter features the continuous input current and could beused either with one or two input voltage sources.Save to LibraryDownloadby Janis  Zakis•  2  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc ConvertersA new 98% soft-switching full-bridge DC-DC converter based on secondary-side LC resonant principle for PV generation systemsThis paper is mainly concerned with the state-of-the-art feasible development of a novel prototype high-efficiency phase-shift soft-switching pulse modulated full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which... moreThis paper is mainly concerned with the state-of-the-art feasible development of a novel prototype high-efficiency phase-shift soft-switching pulse modulated full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which is designed for utility-grid tied photovoltaic (PV) power inverters. The proposed high-frequency transformer (HFTR) link DC-DC converter topology is based upon a new conceptual secondary-side series resonant principle and its inherent nature. All the active power switches in the HFTR primary-side can achieve lossless capacitive snubber-based ZVS with the aid of transformer parasitic inductances. In addition to this, passive power switches in its secondary-side can also perform ZVS and ZCS transitions for input voltage and load variations. In the first place, the operation principle of the newly-proposed DC-DC converter and some remarkable features are described in this paper on the basis of the simulation analysis. In the second place, the 5 kW experimental setup of the DC-DC converter treated here is demonstrated and its experimental results are illustrated from a practical point of view. Finally, some comparative evaluations between simulation and experimental data are actually discussed and considered in this paper, together with its future works. http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6147399Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Saad  Mekhilef•  17  Geometry And Topology, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc ConvertersSMALL FREQUENCY SHIFT OF AUDIO SIGNALS by DSPSave to LibraryDownloadby Chi Kwan Chow•  4  Motor Control, Power converters and drives, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, LRVDESIGN AND SIMULATION OF IMPROVED DC- DC CONVERTERS USING SIMULINK FOR GRID CONNECTED PV SYSTEMSIn this paper Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) based Buck-Boost converter for battery charging is proposed for extracting maximum power from the Photo Voltaic (PV) system. There are number of MPPT tracking methods available to operate... moreIn this paper Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) based Buck-Boost converter for battery charging is proposed for extracting maximum power from the Photo Voltaic (PV) system. There are number of MPPT tracking methods available to operate the PV system at maximum power point. In this proposed work Perturb & observe (P&O) MPPT algorithm is used for design and implementation, which provides the maximum power point irrespective of varying irradiance and temperature. Previously P&O MPPT is used for MPPT based Buck converters, but here much of interest is shown towards the design & simulation of MATLAB Simulink based Buck-Boost regulator system for PV array. This work also presented the improved methods of DC to DC conversion.Save to LibraryDownloadby IAEME Publication•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsA New Cascaded Switched-Capacitor Multilevel Inverter Based on Improved Series–Parallel Conversion With Less Number of Components—The aim of this paper is to present a new 6 structure for switched-capacitor multilevel inverters 7 (SCMLIs) which can generate a great number of voltage 8 levels with optimum number of components for both sym-9 metric and asymmetric... more—The aim of this paper is to present a new 6 structure for switched-capacitor multilevel inverters 7 (SCMLIs) which can generate a great number of voltage 8 levels with optimum number of components for both sym-9 metric and asymmetric values of dc-voltage sources. The 10 proposed topology consists of a new switched-capacitor 11 dc/dc converter (SCC) that has boost ability and can chargeSave to LibraryDownloadby Elyas Zamiri•  3  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Multilevel Inverter, Hardware In The LoopA Simple Smooth Transition Technique for the Noninverting Buck-Boost ConverterThe noninverting buck-boost converter has attracted significant attention in the photovoltaic (PV) module integrated application, as it offers high efficiency while maintaining a low cost and a simple topology. When this converter is... moreThe noninverting buck-boost converter has attracted significant attention in the photovoltaic (PV) module integrated application, as it offers high efficiency while maintaining a low cost and a simple topology. When this converter is employed, special care must be taken at the transition between buck and boost operating modes, as a dead-zone in the voltage transfer function can cause abrupt perturbations in the controlled voltage, decreasing the regulation quality and ultimately lowering the power conversion efficiency. In this paper, a new dead-zone compensation technique is proposed with the scope of smoothing the transition between operating modes, eliminating the voltage ripple and improving the regulation performance, while maintaining high efficiency. The converter under analysis is studied together with its gate driving circuit, which is based on a bootstrap capacitor power supply for the high-side switches. The proposed dead-zone compensation technique is deduced by using the principle of maintaining the ideal voltage gain function across the converter operating range. The technique is analyzed, implemented and tested on a purposely built PV module integrated noninverting buck-boost converter. The experiments reveal a sensible improvement of the voltage regulation during mode transition, confirming the effectiveness of the proposed technique and its fitness for the PV application.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leonardo Callegaro•  9  Control Systems Engineering, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Non inverting buck boost converterA New Symmetric Cascaded Multilevel Inverter Topology Using Single and Double Source UnitIn this paper, a new symmetric multilevel inverter is proposed. A simple structure for the cascaded multilevel inverter topology is also proposed, which produces a high number of levels with the application of few power electronic... moreIn this paper, a new symmetric multilevel inverter is proposed. A simple structure for the cascaded multilevel inverter topology is also proposed, which produces a high number of levels with the application of few power electronic devices. The symmetric multilevel inverter can generate 2n+1 levels with a reduced number of power switches. The basic unit is composed of a single and double source unit (SDS-unit). The application of this SDS-unit is for reducing the number of power electronic components like insulated gate bipolar transistors, freewheeling diodes, gate driver circuits, dc voltage sources, and blocked voltages by switches. Various new algorithms are recommended to determine the magnitude of dc sources in a cascaded structure. Furthermore, the proposed topology is optimized for different goals. The proposed cascaded structure is compared with other similar topologies. For verifying the performance of the proposed basic symmetric and cascaded structure, results from a computer-based MATLAB/Simulink simulation and from experimental hardware are also discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jagabar  Sathik•  5  Power Electronics, Renewable energy resources, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Power Electronics ConverterSurvey Paper on: Harmonics Reduction in PV Systems Using Multilevevl Inverter Techniques and Power FiltersPV systems integrate power electronic interfaces. The most vital among the drawbacks of power electronic loads are the production of harmonics. Several strategies have been invented to reduce harmonics. With the beginning of artificial... morePV systems integrate power electronic interfaces. The most vital among the drawbacks of power electronic loads are the production of harmonics. Several strategies have been invented to reduce harmonics. With the beginning of artificial intelligence (AI) and expert system (ES) based techniques; the researchers are better able to optimize the harmonic filters. Active filters have been surveyed by some scientists; however, so far no collective survey on harmonic reduction techniques is available. In an attempt to contribute with the scientific community, this paper discusses the major harmonic reduction techniques available in literature. This paper presents harmonic reduction methods in solar PV system using both Power filters and Multi-level inverterSave to LibraryDownloadby Marwa A B D E L K A R E E M Yagoub•  8  Active Power Filters, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, power electronics and PV system, Multilevel InverterDesign and Simulation of Incremental Conductance MPPT Using Self Lift Cuk ConverterSave to LibraryDownloadby chilambarasan madhappan•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsIncremental conductance MPPT method for PV systemsThis paper presents incremental conductance method for maximum power point tracking (MPPT) using DC-DC cuk converter. Comprehensive analysis and simulation of KC85T solar module and equivalent electric circuit are provided while effects... moreThis paper presents incremental conductance method for maximum power point tracking (MPPT) using DC-DC cuk converter. Comprehensive analysis and simulation of KC85T solar module and equivalent electric circuit are provided while effects of various environmental conditions on the PV module behavior is investigated. In order to fully understand the PV module working specifications fundamental characteristics of PV cells are discussed. Block diagram model of a PV module was developed in Simulink for plotting the curves. KC85T solar module is used in simulations and results indicate speed and accuracy of the proposed system.Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Saad  Mekhilef•  24  Matlab, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Solar Energy, Centrifugal pumpsAdvancing Power Electronics Through the Development of a Scalable General Purpose ModuleHybrid-electric vehicles are the state of the art in the automotive industry because they increase efficiency and reduce the negative environmental impacts of burning fossil fuels. The long range goal of this project is to develop an... moreHybrid-electric vehicles are the state of the art in the automotive industry because they increase efficiency and reduce the negative environmental impacts of burning fossil fuels. The long range goal of this project is to develop an expandable hybrid-electric automotive system.The problem solved by this year of the project is that the electronics industry lacks a general purpose power electronics module. This makes it more difficult and expensive to develop electric vehicles. By first developing a reusable, modular, multipurpose building block for power systems, the later years of vehicle design will be simplified.The project's development process included four phases: design, simulation, prototype, and testing. Tools such as LTSpiceIV (circuit simulation), KiCAD (schematic capture), SciLab (mathematical models), Eclipse (C++ IDE) and Google Sketchup (3D models) were learned and used. Test equipment included a 100MHZ Tektronics oscilloscope, homemade benchtop power supply, and homemade dynamometer. All tests were microprocessor controlled to ensure repeatability.Dynamometer testing demonstrated that the power module was capable of accurately and predictably controlling series, compound, and separately excited wound-stator DC motors. Testing also demonstrated regenerative braking capabilities.The power electronics module presented in this project benefits the electronics industry by simplifying research and development. When this power module is used, it significantly reduces the design phase and allows the designer to focus on systems-level development. This saves time and money.The project was an astounding success, because the design goal was met and the electronics industry has finally been presented with a general purpose power electronics module.Save to LibraryDownloadby Drew Prevost•  21  Electrical Engineering, Power Electronics, Electronics, Power SystemDevelopment of Microcontroller Based ISPWM Switching Technique for Single Phase InverterSave to LibraryDownloadby Abhisek Maiti•  6  Electrical Engineering, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, brushless DC motors, MOSFETTheoretical Design of Compact Multi-phase Interleaved Buck DC-DC Converter for Automotive Power ApplicationsTheoretical design of a multiphase interleaved buck DC-DC converter is introduced based on corresponding requirements from automotive industry. Particularly, multiphase interleaved topology is adopted to prevent much heat generated in... moreTheoretical design of a multiphase interleaved buck DC-DC converter is introduced based on corresponding requirements from automotive industry. Particularly, multiphase interleaved topology is adopted to prevent much heat generated in devices and large voltage ripple in the load. Ceramic capacitors will be used to replace electrolytic capacitors in order to meet the requirement of long life-time. Control strategy in the converter is mainly based on formulas derived for calculating duty cycle of PWM signals in both continuous mode and discontinuous mode. PID control is also included to correct the error generated from the difference in duty cycle between the ideal condition and the actual one as well as to realize fast recovery of nominal output during variation of working condition, such as variation of input voltage and variation of load. All control functions will be realized by means of a single microcontroller. The theoretical design has been tested through simulation in Simulink model, in which particular sampling frequency and control frequency of the actual microcontroller were taken into account.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paolo Emilio  Bagnoli and +1Emilio Franchi•  4  Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, PWM Modulation Converters, PID controller designUnderstanding Chaos using Discrete-Time Map for Buck ConverterSave to LibraryDownloadby Sajid  Iqbal•  9  Power Electronics, Iterative Methods, Chaos Theory, Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsAnalysis, Design, and Simulation of Two-Switch Forward DC-DC Converter for Military Aviation ApplicationsDC-DC converters are used in many application areas. Non-isolated DC-DC converters are preferred when electrical isolation is not required, and isolated DC-DC converters are preferred when necessary. The forward converter is a commonly... moreDC-DC converters are used in many application areas. Non-isolated DC-DC converters are preferred when electrical isolation is not required, and isolated DC-DC converters are preferred when necessary. The forward converter is a commonly used type of isolated DC-DC converter. Derived from the buck converter, it is an isolated type of buck converter. In the forward converter, different forward converter topologies are obtained by resetting the magnetizing inductance of the transformer in different ways. The two switch forward converter is a commonly used forward topology. This topology is preferred due to high efficiency and low switch voltage stress.Military aviation applications are the applications where DC-DC converters are important. With reference to the MIL-STD-704 standard; the aircraft's DC voltage is converted into the operating voltage of the avionics. In this thesis; a design of the two switch forward DC-DC converter has been made, taking into account the MIL-STD-704 electrical power characteristic standard. In addition, the design was simulated with the Powersim (PSIM) program and the simulation results are presented in the thesis.Keywords: DC-DC converter, forward converter, two switch forward converterSave to LibraryDownloadby Altuğ ÖZKAN•  20  Electrical Engineering, Power Electronics, Electronics, Military AviationBuck And Boost Converter Using MATLAB SimulationBUCK and BOOST Converters are basic types of DC Choppers. DC choppers are converters that convert DC TO DC. BUCK converter steps down the DC voltage whereas BOOST converter steps up the DC voltage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Engr  AttaurRehman•  19  Electrical Engineering, Power Electronics, Power System, Modeling and SimulationLow Cost High Current Waveform GeneratorSave to LibraryDownloadby Rahat Hasan•  2  Electrical Engineering, Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsHigh efficiency THIPWM three-phase inverter for grid connected systemThis paper presents a grid connected system. Three phase DC-AC inverters used to convert the regulated DC power to AC power suitable for grid connection. Third harmonic injection PWM (THIPWM) was employed to reduce the total harmonic... moreThis paper presents a grid connected system. Three phase DC-AC inverters used to convert the regulated DC power to AC power suitable for grid connection. Third harmonic injection PWM (THIPWM) was employed to reduce the total harmonic distortion and for maximum use of the voltage source. DSP was used to generate the accurate THIPWM for grid connection, by synchronizing the inverter voltage with the grid voltage. The application of THIPWM to parallel connected inverter reduces the total harmonic distortion and increases efficiency of the inverter. Experimental results validate the developed model and the proposed system. http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=5679489&tag=1Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Saad  Mekhilef•  21  Harmonic Analysis, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Industrial electronics, Control of Three-Phase Induction MotorsSimulink Behavior Models for DC±DC Switching Converter Circuits using PWM Control ICsSave to LibraryDownloadby Camille Lucciani•Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsENERGY TRANSFER FROM THE PV PANEL TO BATTERY VIA BUCK-BOOST CONVERTERThis paper deals with the means of transferring energy from the input to the output. The buck boost converter is considered as a maximum power point tracker or power equilibrium device used between the photovoltaic solar system and the... moreThis paper deals with the means of transferring energy from the input to the output. The buck boost converter is considered as a maximum power point tracker or power equilibrium device used between the photovoltaic solar system and the battery by supplying the desired power for the stand-alone system requirements. The system energy is assigned by SLP190S-24 High Efficiency Monocrystalline PV module based Perturb and Observe (P&O) MPPT algorithm with a selected lead acid battery bank of 24 Volts. In order to achieve this energy transfer with minor energy losses, Buck-Boost converter with the switching frequency of 25Khz is designed for charging the lead acid battery applied in standalone system. The MATLAB SIMULINK is used to validate the accuracy and effectiveness of the designed Buck-Boost converter simulation results. The result clings to the value of 99.72% for the combined Tracking and conversion efficiencies.Save to LibraryDownloadby IDRISS DAGAL•  5  Renewable Energy, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, PV system simulation, Energy StorageMultistage and Multilevel Power Electronic Converter-Based Power Supply for Plasma DBD DevicesThis paper presents the development and performance evaluation of a compact-converter-based power supply for plasma dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) devices. The developed power supply is designed to meet weight and size requirements... moreThis paper presents the development and performance evaluation of a compact-converter-based power supply for plasma dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) devices. The developed power supply is designed to meet weight and size requirements for applications in aeronautical systems. Multistage and multilevel switch-mode converters are employed to construct the power supply. The multistage part of the power supply is constructed from multiple dc-dc boost converters that have their inputs fed by rechargeable batteries. The outputs of the dc-dc converters are used to feed different levels of a single phase cascaded H-bridge (CHB) multilevel dc-ac converter. The switching signals for the CHB dc-ac converter are generated to facilitate the adjustments of the magnitude and/or frequency of the output voltage. Such adjustments are set to allow manipulating the generated plasma body force. A prototype for the multistage multilevel power supply is constructed for performance evaluation using a fiberglass DBD device. Performance results show an effective generation and control of plasma body force, which can be achieved by a modular, lightweight, and compact size power supply.Save to LibraryDownloadby emre  ozkop•  18  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Design of high frequency power supplies for Dielectric barrier discharge applications, Switched Mode Power SuppliesControl of AC/DC Converter under Unbalanced System ConditionsUnbalance in the AC/DC converters produce uncharacteristic current harmonics, in addition to the characteristic harmonics in the AC waveform not expected from the balanced operation. In this paper, a three-phase AC-DC converter is fully... moreUnbalance in the AC/DC converters produce uncharacteristic current harmonics, in addition to the characteristic harmonics in the AC waveform not expected from the balanced operation. In this paper, a three-phase AC-DC converter is fully analyzed and the performance of the converter under balanced and unbalanced conditions is evaluated. Also, the relationship between the unbalance factor and the resultant harmonics is investigated. The method of reducing uncharacteristic harmonic generation through firing angle modulation is discussed. A digital trigger scheme control circuit for valves with individual control circuit for each device has been designed and built. A digital computer simulation program based on this method is developed; and some experimental results are also given.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jordan Journal of Electrical Engineering (JJEE)•  9  Electrical Engineering, Power Electronics, Mechatronics, Mechatronics EngineeringOptimizing power converter PCB design for lower EMIThe purpose of this paper is to develop a novel technique for the pre-design of a printed circuit board (PCB) of a DC-DC power converters where the placement of electric components can cancel the electromagnetic emissions through... moreThe purpose of this paper is to develop a novel technique for the pre-design of a printed circuit board (PCB) of a DC-DC power converters where the placement of electric components can cancel the electromagnetic emissions through subtractive coupling and in this sense to minimize the stray magnetic and electric fields at a specific location. For this work the location of interest is a current transducer used for control purposes positioned in the center of a DC-DC Cuk converter board as a constrain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ahmed A S Mohamed•  4  Electromagnetic Compatibility, Finite Element Analysis, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Electromagnetic Interference (EMI)Optimizing the PVD TiN thin film coating's parameters on aerospace AL7075-T6 alloy for higher coating hardness and adhesion with better tribological properties of the coating surfaceAn optimization study on the parameters of titanium nitride coating on aerospace Al7075-T6 alloy, using magnetron sputtering technique is presented. The effects of the temperature, DC bias voltage, rate of nitrogen, and DC power on the... moreAn optimization study on the parameters of titanium nitride coating on aerospace Al7075-T6 alloy, using magnetron sputtering technique is presented. The effects of the temperature, DC bias voltage, rate of nitrogen, and DC power on the surface hardness, adhesion, surface roughness, and microstructure of the coated samples are investigated. Taguchi optimization method is used with the orthogonal array of L16 (44). However, to obtain the most optimum parameters for the best surface hardness, adhesion, and surface roughness, the signal to noise (S/N) response analysis method is implemented. Finally, the confirmation tests were carried out to show the improvement using the best parameters combination obtained from the optimization process. The improvement of 14 % in surface hardness, 4.15 % in adhesion, and 9.43 % in surface roughness are achieved. http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00170-012-4022-6Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohd Hamdi  Abd Shukor•  26  System-Aware System Optimization (Taguchi)--optimize signal/noise ratio, ideal energy flow, to get linear function not point values, Process Optimization, Cell Adhesion, Surface RoughnessSimulation of grid connected THIPWM-three-phase inverter using SIMULINKThis paper presents a grid connected system. Three phase DC-AC inverters used to convert the regulated DC power to AC power suitable for grid connection. Third harmonic injection PWM (THIPWM) was employed to reduce the total harmonic... moreThis paper presents a grid connected system. Three phase DC-AC inverters used to convert the regulated DC power to AC power suitable for grid connection. Third harmonic injection PWM (THIPWM) was employed to reduce the total harmonic distortion (THD) and for maximum use of the voltage source. the accurate generation of THIPWM minimize the THD and make the inverter suitable for grid connection, by synchronizing the inverter voltage with the grid voltage. The application of THIPWM to inverter increases efficiency of the inverter. Simulation results validate the developed model and the proposed system. http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6108683Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Saad  Mekhilef•  19  Harmonic Analysis, Simulation (Computer Science), Active Power Filters, Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsQualificação de mestrado - Aplicação de redes neurais artiﬁciais para rastreamento de ponto de máxima potência em painel solar aplicado a um conversor CúkEste trabalho apresenta um estudo sobre a aplicação de redes neurais artiﬁciais como algoritmo de rastreamento de ponto de máxima potência (MPPT) em sistemas fotovoltaicos aplicado a um conversor CC-CC Cúk. Esta técnica visa encontrar de... moreEste trabalho apresenta um estudo sobre a aplicação de redes neurais artiﬁciais como algoritmo de rastreamento de ponto de máxima potência (MPPT) em sistemas fotovoltaicos aplicado a um conversor CC-CC Cúk. Esta técnica visa encontrar de forma mais rápida a razão cíclica da chave de comutação em conversores CC/CC e entregar uma maior potência a carga. É proposta uma rede neural como melhoria de algoritmo MPPT. São feitas comparações de potência entregue a carga utilizando a técnica de rede neural treinada e o método tradicional "Perturba e Observa". Utiliza-se o software PSIM para simulação de sistemas fotovoltaicos e Python para programação e treinamento da rede neural artiﬁcial. Os resultados mostram uma melhora em potência disponível utilizando o método proposto quando comparado ao método "Perturba e Observa".Save to LibraryDownloadby Luiz Fernando M Arruda•  6  Artificial Intelligence, Power Electronics, Artificial Neural Networks, Dc-Dc Converters, Power ElectronicsInductance Selection Criteria and Design Steps for Power Electronics ApplicationsThe power electronics circuits are indispensable devices today for renewable energy applications and for storing energy. One of the main components of this power electronic circuits is the inductance. The inductance working as a live... moreThe power electronics circuits are indispensable devices today for renewable energy applications and for storing energy. One of the main components of this power electronic circuits is the inductance. The inductance working as a live heart, store the energy and pumps the energy from the source to the load in converters, and supply continuously the current of the circuit to the load. The energy efficiency in the system depends on the inductance efficiency. So, a well-designed inductance is very important in order to operate the converter in continuous mode so the current flow is uninterruptible. In this paper, inductance selection criteria for the converters are investigated to work the converter in continuous mode from the literature and solved for the limit value condition equation. Also, the design steps of an inductance including necessary calculations are shown with an example application. The cores and wires effect to the inductance efficiency is also investigated in this paper. An inductance using Ferrite core and Litz wire is proposed and designed experimentally for a converter circuit. Measurements to determine the inductance value was shown. Also, the inductance current variations for higher frequencies are investigated, and used in the converter is shown. Endüktans Seçim Kriteri ve Güç Elektroniği Uygulamaları için Tasarım Aşamaları Anahtar Kelimeler Endüktans seçim ve tasarımı, Ferit çekirdekler ve litz teli, Endüktans deri olayı etkisi, Endüktans verimi, Güç elektroniği çeviricileri Özet: Güç elektroniği devreleri günümüzde yenilenebilir enerji uygulamaları ve enerji depolamak için kaçınılmaz aygıtlardır. Bu güç elektroniği devrelerinin ana elemanlarından biride endüktanstır. Endüktans bir canlının kalbi gibi çalışır, enerjiyi depolar ve çeviriciler de enerjiyi kaynaktan yüke doğru pompalar ve bu sayede yük devresine sürekli akım akışını sağlar. Bu yüzden iyi tasarlanmış bir endüktans çeviriciyi sürekli modda çalıştırmak için oldukça önemlidir ve böylece akım akışı kesintisiz olur. Bu çalışmada çeviriciyi sürekli modda çalıştırmak için gerekli bobin seçim kriteri literatürde incelenmiş ve sınır değer koşulu için kullanılan denklemler yardımıyla bulunmuştur. Yine gerekli denklemleri içeren tasarım aşamaları bir örnek uygulama ile gösterilmiştir. Çekirdek ve kabloların endüktans verimi üzerindeki etkisi de bu çalışmada incelenmiştir. Ferit çekirdek ve Litz teli kullanılan bir endüktans önerilmiş ve bir çevirici devresi için deneysel olarak tasarlanmıştır. Endüktans değerinin belirlenmesi için ölçümler gösterilmiştir. Ayrıca endüktans akım değişimleri yüksek frekanslar için araştırılmış, çeviricide kullanımı gösterilmiştir.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mustafa E R G I N Şahin•  5  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Inductance selection and design,, Ferrite cores and Litz wire, Skin effect in inductanceA High Step Up Hybrid Switch Converter Connected With PV Array For High Voltage ApplicationsThis paper presents a step up DC-to-DC converter with hybrid switch capacitor technique having high voltage conversion ratio with small switch voltage stress . The converter is suitable for the applications where high voltage conversion... moreThis paper presents a step up DC-to-DC converter with hybrid switch capacitor technique having high voltage conversion ratio with small switch voltage stress . The converter is suitable for the applications where high voltage conversion is required. The proposed DC-DC converter has low voltage ratted MOSFET switch and is connected to PV array to get high output voltage at small duty ratios. Hence it has high efficiency. The principles of operations and the theoretical analysis are presented in this paper. All the simulations are done in MATLAB- SIMULINK Environment and results were obtained with voltage conversion ratio of 4.9.Save to LibraryDownloadby International Journal on Information Theory  (IJIT)•  16  Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Series Resonant DC/AC Converters Methods of control – Investigation, Modelling and Applications, Power Management IC design, Energy Harvesting Circuits, DC-DC ConvertersHybrid modelling and optimal control of switch-mode dc-dc convertersSave to LibraryDownloadby Tobias Geyer•  5  Power Electronics, Model Predictive Control of Hybrid Systems, Model Predictive Control, Model Predictive Control (MPC)High Voltage Boost Converters: A Review on Different Methodologies and TopologiesPower converters are a fundamental element in the industries, micro-grids and households appliances providing all the necessary power regulation increasing flexibility of the voltage, current, power and phase. In this review a number of... morePower converters are a fundamental element in the industries, micro-grids and households appliances providing all the necessary power regulation increasing flexibility of the voltage, current, power and phase. In this review a number of boost converters are studied, responsible for converting a low direct current voltage to a higher magnitude using a number of different methods including coupled inductors, series combination of a capacitor and two parallel inductors and an inductor discharging to two series connected capacitors in transfer of power. The converters encounter two major practical issues sudden rise in di/dt and dv/dt that drastically reduces the efficiency and increases power loss in passive elements and stress in active switches.Save to LibraryDownloadby ADBU Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (AJEEE)•  5  Electrical Engineering, Power converters and drives, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Boost ConverterNextLast »Related TopicsPower ElectronicsFollowFollowingPower Electronics, renewable energy systems, electric vehiclesFollowFollowingDc-Dc ConvertersFollowFollowingElectrical EngineeringFollowFollowingPOWER ELECTRONICS MULTILEVEL INVERTER MATLAB SIMULATIONFollowFollowingPower Electronics and DrivesFollowFollowingElectrical Machines, Electrical Drives, Power ElectronicsFollowFollowingDSP-based power electronics systemsFollowFollowingRenewable EnergyFollowFollowingControl SystemsFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023