Ancient Textiles Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Ancient Textiles7,947 FollowersRecent papers in Ancient TextilesTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleSurvey of archaeological textile remains from the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean areaIn: Tools, Textiles and Contexts: Investigating Textile Production in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean Bronze Age, edited by Eva Andersson Strand and Marie-Louise NoschSave to LibraryDownloadby Marie-Louise B Nosch•  3  Archaeology, Ancient Textiles, Aegean textilesМощевая Балка. Необычный археологический памятник на Северокавказском Шелковом Пути//СПб, 2012   Jerusalimskaja A.  Mosthtcevaja Balka.  Unusual  archaeological monument on the North Caucasus Silk Road. St.Petersburg, 2012.Summary. The burial site of Moshtcevaya Balka is located in the North-West Caucasus in a deep gorge in the upper course of the Bolshaya Laba river by the Labinsky mountain pass leading to Bzybsk Abkhazia. The burial site is known... moreSummary.    The burial site of Moshtcevaya Balka is located in the North-West Caucasus in a deep gorge in the upper course of the Bolshaya Laba river by the Labinsky mountain pass leading to Bzybsk Abkhazia. The burial site is known from the 19th century. The natives, who constantly looted it, called it Moshtcevaya Balka (wrom the Russian word moshtci, the imperishable remains of saints in the Russian Orthodox tradition), which suggests the presence of mummified bodies among the burials. The specific feature of the burial site is the wonderful preservation of organic materials (wood, leather, textiles, etc.). Initially it even caused its not being regarded as an archaeological site. At the beginning of the 20th century archaeologists Nikolai Veselovskij and Nikolai Vorobyev took it for an eighteenth-century ethnological object, and therefore one of them transferred the artifacts collected there to the Ethnographic Department of the Russian Museum and the other one — to the Kunstkamera, leaving no reports for the Archaeological Commission. Thus for many years the unique materials from Moshtcevaya Balka remained unknown to archaeologists. Their study began only half century later, when, by the efforts of Joseph A. Orbeli, both collections were transferred to the Hermitage Museum. This collection (so far the most complete one) formed the basis for the present authors’ many years of research. In the 1970s, when the principal ideas on the burial site had been already formed, a small expedition from the Hermitage verified certain questions connected with the arrangement of the burial structures and discovered a burial of a mummified woman. Several finds were donated to the expedition by E.A. Milovanov, the director of a school in Kurdzhinovo. In the present book the results of the research of the Moshtcevaya Balka site is presented in two principal blocks. The first one concerns the reconstruction of many previously unknown features of life of the local tribes: their dress, crafts, religion. Special attention is given to the funeral cult, especially to its recently discovered feature conventionally named the symbolization of the grave goods, which meant that all the necessary groups of grave goods were set along with the burials but purely symbolically — not whole objects, but only parts of them (adze handles, arrow shafts with no arrow-heads, etc.) or imitations of objects. Under normal conditions such symbolic grave goods do not survive, so we get a distorted idea of the actual burial rites. The second block aims at the explanation of a very unusual for the early medieval period concentration of imported silk textiles in Moshtcevaya Balka. At the time when silk was highly valued, when silk garments were(382/383)the privilege of the upper classes, the local tribesmen possessed such an amount of silk that ordinary people used it for their daily needs, and their chief wore a silk kaftan worthy of the king of kings of Sasanian Iran. The solution of this problem required a methodical research of the textile manufacture which helped to understand the nature of the silk import to Moshtcevaya Balka. Among the discovered textiles there are, on the one hand, Chinese and Sogdian silks, on the other — Byzantine and Mediterranian silk textiles. These finds allow to reconstruct a special branch of the Silk Road and to understand its function. This route, called by the author the North Caucasus Silk Road, for the first time appeared, basing upon archaeological material, as a regular trade route between the Far East and the West, evading Iran (always a go-between, preventing any direct trade). This detour ran along the foothills of the Caucasus and across the mountain passes of the West Caucasus, while the Byzantine colonies of the Black Sea coast of Apsilia (Abkhazia) served as transition points. Silk textiles were accumulated by local tribes living by the mountain passes. The Labinsky mountain pass was controlled by the tribe living by Moshtcevaya Balka: textiles were coming as payment for crossing the passes and for various services offered by the natives. Of a special interest is the goods of a Chinese merchant’ including a notebook testifying to the actual presence here of their owner in the 8th century. It also conforms the existence of the North Caucasus Silk Road and of the whole concept suggested here. The present book is in no way just a Russian version of the monograph published fifteen years ago in Germany. It is addressed to a wider audience and introduces many new materials and recently developed ideas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anna  Jerusalimskaja•  3  Textile Archaeology, Ancient Textiles, Antique and Ancient TextilesE. S. Ferrari, Evaluation of the conservation state of some fabric fragments with metal threads of Michelangelo Guggenheim collection, Bachelor Thesis, supervisor Prof. G. Pojana, advisors Dott.ssa L. de Ferri, Dott.ssa A. Martignon, Ca’ Foscari University of Venice, a.y. 2014/2015.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alice Martignon•  7  Heritage Conservation, Decorative Arts, Collecting and Collections, Ancient TextilesGods and Garments. Textiles in Greek Sanctuaries in the 7th to the 1st Centuries BCTextiles comprise a vast and wide category of material culture and constitute a crucial part of the ancient economy. Yet, studies of classical antiquity still often leave out this important category of material culture, partly due to the... moreTextiles comprise a vast and wide category of material culture and constitute a crucial part of the ancient economy. Yet, studies of classical antiquity still often leave out this important category of material culture, partly due to the textiles themselves being only rarely preserved in the archaeological record. This neglect is also prevalent in scholarship on ancient Greek religion and ritual, although it is one of the most vibrant and rapidly developing branches of classical scholarship. The aim of the present enquiry is, therefore, to introduce textiles into the study of ancient Greek religion and thereby illuminate the roles textiles played in the performance of Greek ritual and their wider consequences. Among the questions posed are how and where we can detect the use of textiles in the sanctuaries, and how they were used in rituals including their impact on the performance of these rituals and the people involved. Chapters centre on three themes: first, the dedication of textiles and clothing accessories in Greek sanctuaries is investigated through a thorough examination of the temple inventories. Second, the use of textiles to dress ancient cult images is explored. The examination of Hellenistic and Roman copies of ancient cult images from Asia Minor as well as depictions of cult images in vase-painting in collocation with written sources illustrates the existence of this particular ritual custom in ancient Greece. Third, the existence of dress codes in the Greek sanctuaries is addressed through an investigation of the existence of particular attire for ritual personnel as well as visitors to the sanctuaries with the help of iconography and written sources. By merging the study of Greek religion and the study of textiles, the current study illustrates how textiles are, indeed, central materialisations of Greek cult, by reason of their capacity to accentuate and epitomize aspects of identity, spirituality, position in the religious system, by their forms as links between the maker, user, wearer, but also as key material agents in the performance of rituals and communication with the divine.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cecilie Brøns•  10  Classical Archaeology, History of Dress, Ancient Religion, Ancient Greek ReligionThe Evolution of an Ancient TechnologyWe investigate pattern and process in the transmission of traditional weaving cultures in East and Southeast Asia. Our investigation covers a range of scales, from the experiences of individual weavers ('micro') to the broad-scale... moreWe investigate pattern and process in the transmission of traditional weaving cultures in East and Southeast Asia. Our investigation covers a range of scales, from the experiences of individual weavers ('micro') to the broad-scale patterns of loom technologies across the region ('macro'). Using published sources, we build an empirical model of cultural transmission (encompassing individual weavers, the household and the community), focussing on where cultural information resides and how it is replicated and how transmission errors are detected and eliminated. We compare this model with macro-level outcomes in the form of a new dataset of weaving loom technologies across a broad area of East and Southeast Asia. The lineages of technologies that we have uncovered display evidence for branching, hybridization (reticulation), stasis in some lineages, rapid change in others and the coexistence of both simple and complex forms. There are some striking parallels with biological evolution and information theory. There is sufficient detail and resolution in our findings to enable us to begin to critique theoretical models and assumptions that have been produced during the last few decades to describe the evolution of culture.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher D Buckley and +1Eric Boudot•  19  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Anthropology, Southeast Asian StudiesAnth.106 Ppt. lecture-11: summary of & supplement to Renfrew & Bahn textbook, chp. 8: How did they make and use tools? Technology (by G. Mumford) UPDATED May 2023.SUMMARY: Chapter 8, in Renfrew & Bahn's textbook (Archaeology: Theories, Methods, and Practice), covers what typically survives, what constitutes an "artifact", interpreting usage, obtaining materials (e.g., quarrying; mining),... moreSUMMARY: Chapter 8, in Renfrew & Bahn's textbook (Archaeology: Theories, Methods, and Practice), covers what typically survives, what constitutes an "artifact", interpreting usage, obtaining materials (e.g., quarrying; mining), transporting materials, installing materials, manufacturing items, identifying function, experimental archaeology, etc., regarding stone, bone, antler, shell, leather, wood, plant, metal, faience, glass, and other materials and diverse artifacts.  In my view, this is one of the best college textbooks available, and is invaluable for students, archaeologists, and the public in general, to obtain a top notch overview of approaching and interpreting the archaeological record.  UPDATED May 2023.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gregory Mumford•  62  Archaeology, Experimental Archaeology, Anthropology, EthnoarchaeologyConnecting Tai, Kam and Li Peoples Through Weaving TechniquesTextiles produced by Tai-Kadai peoples are widely admired and much studied, but to date there has been no comparative survey of weaving techniques. Looms and techniques are transmitted between generations in a conservative manner, and... moreTextiles produced by Tai-Kadai peoples are widely admired and much studied, but to date there has been no comparative survey of weaving techniques. Looms and techniques are transmitted between generations in a conservative manner, and have the potential to reveal deep connections between different groups. In this paper I present a survey of loom and patterning techniques, using a mapping approach, combined with comparative analysis similar to that used by linguists. The results trace Tai migration routes, and parallel the findings of linguists in many respects, with some significant differences. They also highlight the important contribution made by Tai-Kadai weavers to the development of the complex patterning systems (drawloom systems) that eventually found their way to the silk weaving industry in Europe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher D Buckley•  14  Southeast Asian Studies, Thai Studies, Material Culture Studies, Linguistic Anthropology26. Nørre Sandegård Vest 1997 Late Iron Age cemetery, Bornholm 500-800 AD Lars Jørgensen og Anne Nørgård JørgensenThe monograph Nørre Sandegård Vest includes one of the rare cemeteries of Late Iron Age in Denmark excavated in recent times (1987). It contains 59 male and female graves with distinguished equipment in the form of weapons and jewelry... moreThe monograph Nørre Sandegård Vest includes one of the rare cemeteries of Late Iron Age in Denmark excavated in recent times (1987). It contains 59 male and female graves with distinguished equipment in the form of weapons and jewelry from the period c. 500 to 800 AD. The equipment gives an extraordinary picture of the wealthy population of the time especially in the second half of the 500s and the beginning of the 600s. Late Iron Age cemeteries are rare in Denmark, while Øster Herred on Bornholm paradoxically contains more than 300 burial finds from this period. The majority of the graves were excavated in1866 to 1901 by district administrator Emil Vedel and teacher Johan Andreas Jørgensen, and published by Vedel in 1886 and 1897. The archaeological material on partly Nørre Sandegård Vest and partly from Øster Herred are here treated in relation to Scandinavian and continental chronology systems in time and space, the female graves handled by Lars Jørgensen and the male graves by Anne Nørgård Jørgensen, textiles handled by Ulla Mannering and organic material by Claus Malmros. The book is in English with Danish summary, 244 pages, 149 text illustrations - mostly by the two main authors, and 52 pages with objects from the cemetery shown in closed contexts. Drawing of the female equipment and associated watercolors of glass beads made by Poul Christensen, male equipment drawn by John Pind and the main authors..Save to LibraryDownloadby Anne Nørgård Jørgensen and +1Ulla Mannering•  6  Late Iron Age (Archaeology), Ancient Textiles, Merovingian period, ChronologyRecycling of Textiles in Historic Contexts in Europe. Case Studies from 1500 BC till 1500 AD.The aim of this study is to collect evidence for textile recycling from a prehistoric and historic perspective. The basis are original textile finds and not, as might be expected, written or pictorial sources. The material presented here... moreThe aim of this study is to collect evidence for textile recycling from a prehistoric and historic perspective. The basis are original textile finds and not, as might be expected, written or pictorial sources. The material presented here focuses on archaeological finds, especially on prehistoric to early medieval evidence from Central Europe, also mentioning some interesting examples from medieval and Early Modern times. This is not a comprehensive study of all possible secondary uses of textiles, but it shall demonstrate different interesting case studies such as re-use and recycling of garments with examples from Bronze Age till early modern period. We also learn from Early Medieval evidence that textile rags have been employed for production processes e.g. of ceramic vessels, clay figurines or for thin bronze objects. In the salt-mines Hallstatt and Dürrnberg in Austria, hundreds of textile scraps have been found, left back in the mines after secondary use as make-shift binding material or sanitary items.Worn-out textiles were used for caulking wooden ships, as sealing for water-management in prehistoric copper mines and as insulation material for medieval castles. At least, textile scraps also ended in medieval and early modern latrinae – after they have been used as “toilet-paper”. The evidence collected demonstrates a careful resource-management.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karina Grömer•  35  Medieval History, Early Modern History, Natural Resources, TextilesLooms, Weaving and the Austronesian ExpansionBuckley C (2017) Looms, Weaving and the Austronesian Expansion. In: Cultural Exchanges in Monsoon Asia: Andrea Acri , Roger Blench and Alexandra Landmann (eds), ISEAS, Singapore. Weaving plays an important role in Asian cultures,... moreBuckley C (2017) Looms, Weaving and the Austronesian Expansion. In: Cultural Exchanges in Monsoon Asia:  Andrea Acri , Roger Blench  and Alexandra Landmann (eds), ISEAS, Singapore. Weaving plays an important role in Asian cultures, both in the practical and symbolic spheres. In this paper I trace the weaving technologies of Island Southeast Asia (ISEA) and Mainland Southeast Asia (MSEA) to their origins on the Asian mainland. A distinctive suite of technologies, including the body-tensioned loom, warp ikat and the tubular sarong, is found across a wide area. In ISEA it is associated with Austronesian speakers, and remnants of it are found on the mainland amongst Daic and Austroasiatic speakers. Significantly, it is absent on Taiwan, which (together with Hainan and parts of Laos and Vietnam) preserve an older form of the loom. I conclude that the weaving traditions of ISEA came directly from the mainland, rather than via Taiwan.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher D Buckley•  20  Anthropology, Southeast Asian Studies, Textiles, Material Culture StudiesTurkmen Rug Studies: Uncovering the kepse gol originThe kepse gol stands alone; there is no other Turkmen gol even remotely like it. This is enough to provoke questions about its origin and the author of this paper, Jack Cassin, delves into that issue and mystery.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jack Cassin•  11  Textiles, Turkmen, History of Textiles, Ancient Textiles2018. "Changing textiles - shifting identities? Costume and political allegiance in Late Antic Nubia". International Conference for Nubian Studies, 10-15th of September, Paris, Louvre-Sorbonne universityUnderstanding the cultural diversity of the Nile valley has always been paramount to Nubian studies, but has proved particularly challenging for the Late Antiquity period when, in the span of eight centuries (c. 100-850 CE), the Kushite... moreUnderstanding the cultural diversity of the Nile valley has always been paramount to Nubian studies, but has proved particularly challenging for the Late Antiquity period when, in the span of eight centuries (c. 100-850 CE), the Kushite Meroitic power let way to local independent kings, soon to form the Medieval Christian kingdoms of Nobadia and Makuria. Our presentation will focus on textiles and costumes, opening new avenues to trace the evolution of political allegiance and cultural belonging in Lower Nubia through this fast evolving world.We will examine the creation of local textile traditions and their evolution through the Meroitic, Post-Meroitic and Early Medieval periods, focussing on the changing use of raw materials, weaving technics and clothing designs. Deeply rooted in the local traditions, textile production was also heavily influenced by the introduction of new weaving technics in Nubia. As a key component to elite and royal display, textiles were closely related to the political powers succeeding each other along the Middle Nile. They are therefore very useful witnesses to the profound shift in the definition of Nubian identity occurring in Late Antiquity, when relations with Egypt and the Byzantine world gained a new momentum.Save to Libraryby Magdalena M Wozniak and +1Elsa Yvanez•  10  Medieval History, Material Culture Studies, History of Costume, Costume and IdentityThe Heddle Rods are Blood Soaked Spears:Life, Death ,Fate, and Female Embodiment through Weaving in Viking Age and Medieval IcelandSpinning and weaving were, in Viking Age Scandinavian societies, exclusively the domain of women. Woven in weaving huts (dyngja), textile production was associated with female embodiment, with beliefs about sorcery, fate, death, fertility... moreSpinning and weaving were, in Viking Age Scandinavian societies, exclusively the domain of women. Woven in weaving huts (dyngja), textile production was associated with female embodiment, with beliefs about sorcery, fate, death, fertility and reproduction, while male involvement often resulted in allegations of homosexuality or death. Based on current research looking at gender and cloth in Viking and medieval Iceland new ideas have come to light regarding these age-old associations of female embodiment and the eventual transformation of cloth into a form of legal currency in the 12th century.Save to Libraryby Michele Hayeur Smith•  16  Gender Studies, Women's Studies, Material Culture Studies, Landscape ArchaeologySome considerations on Plautus as source for textiles and textile economy in the Roman RepublicSave to LibraryDownloadby Falk Ruttloh•  15  Roman Republic, Roman Comedy, Roman Economy, Ancient TextilesPaul and Maps: Exegeting Acts 13-14 through the Lens of Lived Space CartographyThe purpose of this research is to explore the possibilities of using cartography to unpack lived spaces within social relationships. To do so I utilize biblical text along with epigraphy to explore the range of possibilities that connect... moreThe purpose of this research is to explore the possibilities of using cartography to unpack lived spaces within social relationships. To do so I utilize biblical text along with epigraphy to explore the range of possibilities that connect and disconnect communities. To limit this project, I have chosen to engage in conversation with John Knox and Robert Jewett whose chronologies on Paul diverge significantly because of different approaches for how to use the book of Acts within a framework built around Paul's letters. Looking specifically at their disputes around Acts 13-14 affords me the opportunity to begin transcribing their tables to maps while also exploring the human relationships that exist within the ancient record. I argue that Acts 13-14 is more important than either Knox or Jewett realized because it offers important insights into how Paul formed and established relationships around Galatia. As a contribution to New Testament studies, this project points to a tendency to limit the study of Paul’s journeys to matters of timelines and relative chronologies without fully considering how Paul’s professional and religious associations enabled him to travel and spread the gospel. This has led to chronologies and maps that do not fully consider the nuances of Mediterranean travel and interactions and have consequently failed to change popular perceptions of Paul. When we change our perspective from concerns around time to matters of social connectivity, we can use chronology to engage historical material and observe nuanced social interactions. And new technologies, like Geospatial Information Systems (GIS), allow us to build interactive models that bring to the fore the lived spaces in maps.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jon-Philippe Ruhumuliza•  15  Sociology, Cartography, Archaeology, Social NetworksThe Ancient Felting Techniques in XinjiangDated back to 8000 years ago, the felting techniques were originated from the fiber processing skills used by nomadic tribes in ancient Central Asia. Xinjiang, located in Northwest China, is one of the earliest regions in China using the... moreDated back to 8000 years ago, the felting techniques were originated from the fiber processing skills used by nomadic tribes in ancient Central Asia. Xinjiang, located in Northwest China, is one of the earliest regions in China using the felts. Since the Bronze Age, the residents of ancient Xinjiang had mastered the primitive felting techniques, which had been constantly improved during the latter course of history, leading to the felts with era characteristics. This paper puts archaeological evidences and historical documents together as its research materials, reviews the history development of the felting techniques in the ancient Xinjiang, and represents the main features of the felting techniques in different eras.Save to LibraryDownloadby Xiangyang Bian and +1xiaoyu xin•  9  History of Costume, Silk Road, Silk Road Studies, Xinjiang"Tessili E Tappeti Nell’antica Roma”, Ghereh 1:2, 74-77, 1993.  Save to LibraryDownloadby Murray L Eiland•  3  Ancient Textiles, Textile Technology, Archaeological textiles and clothingNew Kingdom Textile Decoration Techniques and Significance: Evidences from the Egyptian Textile Museum in CairoTextile decorations spread all over Egypt during the New Kingdom not only due to the prosperity of the country's economy but also the expansion of the Egyptian Empire and the influence on textile decorations by foreign weavers. mainly... moreTextile decorations spread all over Egypt during the New Kingdom not only due to the prosperity of the country's economy but also the expansion of the Egyptian Empire and the influence on textile decorations by foreign weavers. mainly Syrian, on Egyptian clothes is powerful. The present study aims to investigate the fabric's decoration and the Egyptological analysis of three textile pieces preserved in the 'Egyptian Textile Museum' in Cairo that carry religious Neither surveying nor comparing the decoration techniques of the New Kingdom has been done by author. This paper aims to compare the textile decoration techniques occurred in ancient Egyptian New Kingdom depending on the decorated pieces in the newly inaugurated "Azhar Textile Museum Significance. The paper studies the morphological appearance of the pieces through visual examination of fibers by light microscopic to reveal what decoration techniques were used. Then it analyzes the religious significance of the decorations through analyzing scenes and texts they form. Eventually, technical setting about the techniques of the fabric decoration is delivered, bringing into argumentation the religious role of these pieces revealed from their decorations. The paper concluded that three different decoration techniques occurred in New Kingdom clothes encompassing Weft looping, Tapestry Weave, and coloring. It investigated reasons behind the spread of these specific techniques. Coloring techniques of the three studied pieces are also analyzed. Moreover, major similarities and differences among decoration and coloring techniques have been resulted.Save to LibraryDownloadby Osama Ibrahim•  4  Ancient Textiles, Ancient Textile Technology, Ancient Dyes Analysis and Textiles Conservation, Ancient Egyptian Textiles and Clothing(mit Sina Tauchert) Helenas Töchter. Frauen und Mode im frühen Griechenland (Darmstadt 2015)Die Geschichte der europäischen Mode reicht bis weit in die Antike zurück. Schon in den ältesten figürlichen Darstellungen und in Homers Ilias und Odyssee erscheinen Textil-Luxus und die Freude an schöner Kleidung als ein... moreDie Geschichte der europäischen Mode reicht bis weit in die Antike zurück. Schon in den ältesten figürlichen Darstellungen und in Homers Ilias und Odyssee erscheinen Textil-Luxus und die Freude an schöner Kleidung als ein selbstverständlicher Bestandteil der Lebenswelt: Nachdem Paris Helena geraubt hat, ist es ihm ein wichtiges Anliegen, für eine Ausstattung der neuen Braut zu sorgen, die ihrem Stand und ihrer Schönheit angemessen ist.Textilien und Kleidung haben über mehrere Jahrhunderte als Mittel der gesellschaftlichen Unterscheidung und zur markanten Absetzung der Geschlechter gedient. Von besonderem Interesse ist dabei der Zeitraum von der früharchaischen Zeit bis in die griechische Klassik. Die Autoren verbinden erstmals die ästhetikgeschichtliche, die sozialgeschichtliche und die kunsthistorisch-archäologische Pespektive und heben sich somit entschieden ab von den bisher vorhandenen Publikationen. Die präzisen Bildanalysen erfüllen die zahlreichen Abbildungen mit Leben.Save to LibraryDownloadby Klaus Junker and +1Sina Tauchert•  18  Ancient History, Classics, Fashion design, Fashion TheoryImages on Textiles: the Weave of Fifth-Century Athenian Art and SocietyThis book deals with an issue that is central to the study of the classical past, namely, what were the driving forces behind the artistic activity that occurred in fifth century Athens--artistic activity of which we have many physical... moreThis book deals with an issue that is central to the study of the classical past, namely, what were the driving forces behind the artistic activity that occurred in fifth century Athens--artistic activity of which we have many physical vestiges, and which inspired a classical tradition that has spanned more than two millennia? By examining metaphors of weaving (especially in Euripides’ Ion) and descriptions of ancient textiles, and comparing them with what can be gleaned from the scanty archaeological record, it has been possible to show that the competitive creation of pictorial cloths (notably of the peplos made every four years for the Great Panathenaea) may have provided one of the dynamos that generated such creativity. Tapestry workshops (usually run by men, with women in a subsidiary role) also contributed to the progressive enrichment of the household environment that took place between the early fifth century and the mid-fourth. Wall-hangings (which might double up as garments) were employed in the dining rooms of the rich, and also in the temporary structures erected at festivalsSave to LibraryDownloadby Michael Vickers•  5  History of Textiles, Woven Textiles, Ancient Textiles, Ancient Greek and Roman ArtORESTE SERGI, I Capitoli, Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della seta di Catanzaro e la produzione di manifatture seriche tra XVI e XVII secolo.O. SERGI, I Capitoli, Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della seta di Catanzaro e la produzione di manifatture seriche tra XVI e XVII secolo, in Capitoli Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della Seta di Catanzaro, a cura di O. Sergi,... moreO. SERGI, I Capitoli, Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della seta di Catanzaro e la produzione di manifatture seriche tra XVI e XVII secolo, in Capitoli Ordinazioni e Statuti dell’Arte della Seta di Catanzaro, a cura di O. Sergi, Catanzaro, Camera di Commercio di Catanzaro, 2010, pp. 22 – 31.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oreste Sergi Pirrò•  23  Textiles, History of Textiles, Textiles Design, Ancient TextilesKerry Muhlestein, editor in chief, Krystal V. L. Pierce and Bethany Jensen, eds., Excavations at Fag el-Gamous and the Seila Pyramid, Harvard Egyptological Studies vol. 7. (Leiden: Brill, 2020)Save to LibraryDownloadby Kerry Muhlestein and +2Krystal V. Lords PierceBethany Jensen•  12  Paleopathology, Death and Burial (Archaeology), Greek Papyrology, Burial Practices (Archaeology)2017. "Textiles as archaeological sources: case-studies from Meroitic Sudan", Seminar at the Polish Academy of Science, Warsaw. June 20.Save to LibraryDownloadby Krzysztof Grzymski and +1Elsa Yvanez•  3  Ancient Textiles, Meroitic Studies, Meroitic Material CultureThe Threads that Bind Us: Aspects of Textile Production in Late Antique Thebes [2017]Note: only a preview of the article is provided here, until the one-year moratorium period has elapsed. If you would like the full article, please contact me.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jennifer  Cromwell•  10  Ancient History, Egyptology, Textiles, Coptic StudiesETRUSKERNES TEKSTILER, DRAGTER OG SMYKKERSave to LibraryDownloadby Cecilie Brøns•  4  Dress and Personal Adornment (Archaeology), Ancient Textiles, Etruscan Archaeology, EtruscologyCarpet weaving in Boysun. Felt Carpets. Weaving // HISTORY AND TRADITIONAL CULTURE OF BOYSUN. Tashkent, 2004Save to LibraryDownloadby Elmira  Gyul•  7  History of Textiles, Central Asian Studies, Ancient Textiles, UzbekistanТекстильная культура позднего бронзового века Урало-Казахстанского регионаСтатья посвящена характеристике текстильной культуры в позднем бронзовом веке Урало-Казахстанского региона. Под текстильной культурой понимается совокупность особенностей текстильного продукта и технологий его изготовления, обусловленная... moreСтатья посвящена характеристике текстильной культуры в позднем бронзовом веке Урало-Казахстанского региона. Под текстильной культурой понимается совокупность особенностейтекстильного продукта и технологий его изготовления, обусловленная социально-экономическими факторами, культурными, эстетическими и ценностными предпочтениями общества. Технологический и материаловедческий анализы, исследование красителей фрагментов археологического текстиля и его отпечатков на керамических сосудах позволили определитьосновные компоненты текстильной культуры в синташтинском, петровском и алакульском обществах. Используемое сырье имело животное происхождение. С учетом скотоводческой направленности хозяйства и высокого процента овец в стаде можно предположить, что основой местного текстильного производства могла быть овечья шерсть при неизвестной долеимпортного и местного растительного волокна. Использовался плетеный, витой и тканый текстиль из пряденых нитей преимущественно Z-крутки. Ткани представлены различны-ми вариантами полотняного переплетения. Тесьма встречается диагонально-полотняного и диагонально-саржевого переплетения; шнуры изготовлены витьем из 4 и 8 нитей или плетением косичкой. Декорирование осуществлялось при помощи нитей, окрашенных красными красителями (мареной или подмаренниками), а также комбинаций нитей разных цветов, вариаций порядка и крутки нитей, вышивки. Текстиль применялся в одежде, аксессуарах костюма и керамическом производстве.Save to LibraryDownloadby Polina Ankusheva and +4Olga (Ольга) Orfinskaya (Орфинская)Ludmila KoryakovaElena KupriyanovaIrina Shevnina•  3  Late Bronze Age archaeology, Ancient Textiles, Bronze Age Ural-Kazakhstan SteppesReconstructions of Bulgarian Medieval garment (XIII – XIVc.)Save to LibraryDownloadby Kalina Atanasova•  5  History of Costume, Ancient Textiles, History of the Balkans, Ktetors (ktitors)Linen under the looking glass: a new interpretation of Ancient Egyptian textile productionSave to LibraryDownloadby Veerle van Kersen•  3  Ancient Textiles, Ancient Egyptian textile manufacturing and techniques, Ancient Egyptian Textiles and ClothingInca Rituals and Sacred Mountains 2010The Incas carried out some of the most dramatic ceremonies known to us from ancient times. Groups of people walked hundreds of miles across arid and mountainous terrain to perform them on mountains over 20,000 feet (6,096 m) high. The... moreThe Incas carried out some of the most dramatic ceremonies known to us from ancient times. Groups of people walked hundreds of miles across arid and mountainous terrain to perform them on mountains over 20,000 feet (6,096 m) high. The most important offerings made during these pilgrimages involved human sacrifices (capacochas). Although Spanish chroniclers wrote about these offerings and the state-sponsored processions of which they were a part, their accounts were based on second-hand sources, and the only direct evidence we have of the capacocha sacrifices comes to us from archaeological excavations. Some of the most thoroughly documented of these were undertaken on high mountain summits, where the material evidence has been exceptionally well preserved. In this study, we describe the results of research undertaken on Mount Llullaillaco (22,109 ft / 6,739 m), which has the world's highest archaeological site. The types of ruins and artifact assemblages recovered are described and analyzed. By comparing the archaeological evidence with the chroniclers' accounts and with findings from other mountaintop sites, common patterns are demonstrated, while at the same time previously little-known elements contribute to our understanding of key aspects of Inca religion. This study illustrates the importance of archaeological sites being placed within the broader context of physical and sacred features of the natural landscape.Save to LibraryDownloadby Johan Reinhard•  32  Andean Archaeology, Cosmology (Anthropology), Anthropology of Pilgrimage, Museum Anthropology“Review of Clothing and Nudity in the Hebrew Bible, ed. Christoph Berner, Manuel Schäfer, Martin Schott, Sarah Schulz and Martina Weingärtner,” Review of Biblical Literature. March 2020.Save to LibraryDownloadby Laura Quick•  4  Ancient Textiles, History of clothing and fashion, Biblical Anthropology, Hebrew Bible/Old TestamentNineteenth Century Buttons from the North Brisbane Burial GroundFrom 2000-2002, a salvage excavation was conducted to record and remove 397 burials exposed by a stadium redevelopment in the centre of the city of Brisbane, Queensland. These burials formed part of the North Brisbane Burial Ground which... moreFrom 2000-2002, a salvage excavation was conducted to record and remove 397 burials exposed by a stadium redevelopment in the centre of the city of Brisbane, Queensland. These burials formed part of the North Brisbane Burial Ground which received interments between 1843 and 1875. During the course of the excavation, 71 buttons were collected, consisting of 40 ceramic buttons, 17 metal buttons, 8 bone buttons, 1 shell button, 2 textile-covered buttons, 2 thread buttons, and 1 ivory button. The buttons were typed and analysed microscopically and compared to those of other sites. The threads used to attach these buttons were preserved in 16 samples, and fragments of a twill woven garment with button holes were preserved on two brass buttons. Given the very poor preservation of burial remains at the site, the complex taphonomic processes are also investigated and of the thirty four burials that contained buttons, six were assigned date ranges of interment based upon button morphology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Glenys McGowan•Ancient Textiles2021. "Building textile archaeology in the Nile Valley". Danish Egyptian Society lecture series, 25/03/2021Hundreds of years of excavations along the Nile Valley have yielded great amounts of ancient textiles from Egypt and Sudan, well preserved thanks to the arid climate. Settlement sites have shown textile fragments, archaeobotanical... moreHundreds of years of excavations along the Nile Valley have yielded great amounts of ancient textiles from Egypt and Sudan, well preserved thanks to the arid climate. Settlement sites have shown textile fragments, archaeobotanical remains, fibres, and threads, as well as many implements used for textile manufacturing; but it is from graves that most of the material comes from. The complex funerary rites of ancient Egypt and Sudan made great use of textile material, for wrapping human and animal remains, for offerings and for furnishing the tombs. From settlements to cemeteries, from iconography to textual sources, textiles were everywhere in the economy and society of the ancient Nile Valley. Their omnipresence and important social role are often implied in scholarly literature, but this formidable textile material is still not studied and published to its full potential. Inspired by the current renewal of textile research in academia, new research projects are now emerging, advocating for a more inclusive and multi-disciplinary approach. This lecture will propose a model to build textile archaeology in the Nile Valley, using material from Meroitic Sudan as a case-study (TexMeroe, Marie Skłodowska-Curie project 743420). It will then present new perspectives currently opening in the domain of Pharaonic textiles.Save to Libraryby Elsa Yvanez•  10  Egyptology, Textile Archaeology, Late Antiquity, Ancient TextilesHISTORIA DE UN GABÁN: EL KAXKEM ZAPOTECO DEL SUREl presente artículo tiene como propósito rastrear histórica y etnográficamente un gabán de uso exclusivamente masculino, tejido en telar de cintura en varias comunidades zapotecas del sur de Oaxaca, cuyo nombre es una derivación de la... moreEl presente artículo tiene como propósito rastrear histórica y etnográficamente un gabán de uso exclusivamente masculino, tejido en telar de cintura en varias comunidades zapotecas del sur de Oaxaca, cuyo nombre es una derivación de la palabra nahua quechquémitl, con la forma españolizada " casqueme " y la zapotequización " kaxkem ". En su manufactura se empleaban originalmente fibra de lana y chichicastle, tintes naturales como grana cochinilla y añil, así como los colores naturales de ambas fibras. Además del abordaje histórico y etnográfico, en el artículo se plantea una hipótesis sobre la reutilización del nombre nahua de una prenda femenina usada en el centro y norte del país, como es el quechquémitl, para denominar al gabán masculino en la región zapoteca del sur. palabras clave Gabán, tradición textil, telar de cintura, lana, chichicastle. absTracT This article aims to track the history and ethnography behind an overcoat designed only for men known as " casqueme ". The garment is made with a backstrap loom in different Zapotec 1 El presente trabajo forma parte de una investigación mucho más amplia que versa sobre la tradición textil en la región zapoteca del sur de Oaxaca, en particular en comunidades de los distritos de Miahuatlán, Loxi-cha y Yautepec, la cual se realiza como parte de una estancia posdoctoral en el Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas de la Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. Para la preparación de este texto, agradezco a Alejandro de Ávila por compartir diversas consideraciones respecto a los gabanes producidos en la región zapoteca del sur y de su tradición textil en general, así como la mención de algunas referencias bibliográfi-cas en las que se registra dicha prenda, en particular, mediante el calificativo de casqueme o kaxkem.Save to LibraryDownloadby Damián  González Pérez•  30  Cultural History, Textiles, History of Textiles, Woven TextilesTextile symbolism and the wealth of the earth : creation, production and destruction in the ‘tapestry scene’ of Aeschylus’ Oresteia (Ag. 905-78) in M. Harlow, M.-L. Nosch, and G. Fanfani (eds.) Spinning Fates and the Song of the Loom:  115-136Save to LibraryDownloadby Emmanuela  Bakola•  8  Greek Literature, Anthropology of space, Aeschylus, Ancient TextilesDid Minoan-style women's clothing include a corset? (2008)From a cursory appraisal it is a simple step to assume that Minoan women's costume included a corset of varying degrees of tightness. This essay aims to show, however, that such an interpretation is based on a misunderstanding of the... moreFrom a cursory appraisal it is a simple step to assume that Minoan women's costume included a corset of varying degrees of tightness. This essay aims to show, however, that such an interpretation is based on a misunderstanding of the garment combined with the reliance on forgeries, rather than on genuine examples of Minoan clothing.Save to LibraryDownloadby Caroline Tully•  7  Textiles, Ancient Textiles, Minoan art and archaeology, Minoan ArchaeologyOutward Appearance vs. Inward Significance: Addressing Identities through Attire in the Ancient World. The 14th Annual University of Chicago Oriental Institute SeminarClothes are often considered mundane, but they play a crucial role in people’s lives beyond only providing protection from the heat and cold. The meaning of a piece of clothing changes the moment it is worn, as it becomes associated with... moreClothes are often considered mundane, but they play a crucial role in people’s lives beyond only providing protection from the heat and cold. The meaning of a piece of clothing changes the moment it is worn, as it becomes associated with its wearer. Attire can demonstrate affiliation to a particular group, be it religious, political, ethnic, social, etc., serving as an important means to construct the self-identity of a person. In terms of social impact, attire can include, as well as exclude, an individual from a certain group, playing a part in acculturation or assimilation. In order to understand what clothes can reveal about the ethnicity, beliefs, social rank, profession and gender or age of the wearer, it is necessary to reconstruct its particular socio-cultural context and understand the non-verbal language the dress conveys. The conference creates a venue for a multidisciplinary and comparative approach to dress studies in the ancient world. It brings together scholars working inside broad geographical and chronological frameworks but pursuing common themes in their research. It gathers specialists studying ancient attire from different perspectives and applying different methodologies. Non-verbally, attire conveys important meaning that must be decoded through various methodological approaches, be it an artifact, visual- or text-oriented approach. The fragmentary corpus of evidence available to assist in the study of ancient costume in different geographic areas justifies searching for cross-cultural patterns in dress behavior. The goal of the proposed conference is to construct (a) definition(s) of the clothed self and investigate multiple trajectories of the dress’ role in the construction of various identities in the ancient world. https://oi.uchicago.edu/research/symposia/2018.htmlSave to LibraryDownloadby Aleksandra Hallmann•  15  Ancient History, Archaeology, Egyptology, TextilesCotton textiles from the Byzantine period to the Medieval period in ancient PalestineThis article will discuss the findspots of cotton textiles and the location of their manufacture, questioning the origin of these different cotton fabrics, their provenance, and the route they took to their new owners. Through the... moreThis article will discuss the findspots of cotton textiles and the location of their manufacture, questioning the origin of these different cotton fabrics, their provenance, and the route they took to their new owners. Through the duration of the Byzantine period, in the 5th-6th c. CE, cotton remained rather rare in Palestine. It continued to be infrequent during the Islamic period, leading to very few discoveries on selected sites. At least one of these location shows that cotton was also a foreign product coming mainly through importation networks with India. Such commerce has left a strong imprint on the textile landscape of ancient Palestine. The caravan town of Nahal ‘Omer has left us a rich textile assemblage of good quality pieces where cotton was predominant, attesting the prosperity of the site’s inhabitants and the travellers who frequented it. These finds contrast sharply with the textiles characterizing nearby sites of the same period. In most of Palestine except for Nahal ‘Omer, wool was still the fibre of choice during the Early Islamic Period (7th-8th c. CE) in sites such as Nahal Shahaq, ‘En Evrona, ‘En Marzev (Yahav), and Yotvata. The exceptional quantities of silk and cotton fabrics discovered at Nahal ‘Omer testifies to textile encounters with faraway lands. This distinct foreign character of cotton textiles continued to be relevant during the Later Islamic period, at Qasr el-Yahud for example, where cotton textiles are associated to Nubians and South Egyptians pilgrims. Nonetheless, local cotton production continued to be slowly developed through the medieval period, until the fibre became quite prevalent and even replaced linen. https://journals.openedition.org/ethnoecologie/4176Save to LibraryDownloadby Orit Shamir•  7  Medieval History, Byzantine Archaeology, Islamic History, Ancient Textiles"Tracing the Two-Beam Loom in Text: Development of Weaving Technology in Roman LiteraturePoster presented at Purpureae Vestes VII (Granada 2019).Save to LibraryDownloadby Magdalena E M Ohrman•  3  Valerius Flaccus, Ancient Textiles, Ancient Textile TechnologyHerramientas de hilado y tejido en las tumbas y contextos votivos Lambayeque: ¿Evidencia de especialistas textileras o simbolismo mítico de una diosa desconocida?Save to LibraryDownloadby Gabriel Prieto•  5  Andean Archaeology, Ancient Textiles, Lambayeque/Sican, Peruvian ArchaeologyAncient Carpet Fragments: Carl Johan Lamm Collection Re-Examined: A Weaving Art Museum ExhibitionNotwithstanding more than 100 years of investigation and the collection of a significant amount of data, little positive provenance information has yet emerged to pinpoint the origins of most Oriental carpet designs. The author of this... moreNotwithstanding more than 100 years of investigation and the collection of a significant amount of data, little positive provenance information has yet emerged to pinpoint the origins of most Oriental carpet designs.  The author of this paper, Jack Cassin, presents new commentary and evidence to begin to understand this situation. Progress has been made on several fronts particularly the recognition these designs did not exist in a vacuum and must be studied by taking other decorative arts into account. Clues garnered from diverse objects such as pottery and other findings from pre-historic archaeological excavations; metalwork from the bronze age and later periods; calligraphy from 9th century; architecture beginning in the 12th century; miniature painting from the 13th century and book-binding and wood-work from the 14th century have encouraged a number of important insights.  However, the origins of the designs found on historic and later complex patterned weavings still remain mysterious and undetermined. Obviously the weavings themselves hold the greatest store of facts to assist in unraveling these questions and it is there more concentration must be applied.  This can be done in several ways. The first is by the employment of the various analytic techniques developed by cutting-edge forensic sciences. Utilization of these new tools will facilitate the identification of important key elements that have hereto remained hidden. Once this is accomplished the sources of the raw materials and their various production methods will become identified. Collating these results will provide statistical profiles and examples, even those that formerly appeared unrelated, could then be grouped together based on verifiable criteria.  These scientific findings, rather than the less positive comparisons of technique and design used today, will definitely improve chances for solving provenance questions. Similar intensive studies of the existent raw materials like wool, dyestuffs and water supplies, which are still present in the eastern Mediterranean areas where many of these historic weaving are believed to have produced, is a second area of inquiry. Collecting and comparing these results to those gathered from the weavings themselves will undoubtedly add other valuable criteria for these profiles. In conjunction with scientific field investigation, a far more intensive search, both above and below ground level for historic weavings will also add new examples to the relatively small number now known and likewise assist in answering these questions. However the third and perhaps the easiest - a re-examination of the small number of known historic weavings – can also yield new findings and discoveries. Since the first two are beyond the possibilities of this writer and The Weaving Art Museum at the present time, this third method has been chosen to present our Sixth Exhibition “A New Look At Some Ancient Knotted-Pile Carpet Fragments”.  The examples selected for this inquiry come from the largest and most comprehensive grouping of early historic cut-pile carpets - The Lamm Collection.  Both individually and as a group these wondrous little fragments provide a valuable source of material to answer the intriguing question: What were the origins of Oriental carpet designs?Save to LibraryDownloadby Jack Cassin•  11  Textiles, History of Textiles, Textiles Design, Ancient Textiles“Unwrapping Ancient Egyptian Fashion,” The Oriental Institute News and Notes 239 (Fall 2018): 6-15Save to LibraryDownloadby Aleksandra Hallmann•  11  Iconography, History of Dress, History of Costume, History of TextilesLa Colección Textil Paracas Necropolis del Museo de Arqueologia y Antropologia de la Universidad Nacional Mayor de San MarcosAnalisis de la coleccion de tejidos de la sociedad arqueologica Paracas Necropolis, reunida a principios del siglo XX por el doctor Julio C. Tello, que custodia el Museo de Arqueologia y Antropologia de la Universidad Nacional Mayor de... moreAnalisis de la coleccion de tejidos de la sociedad arqueologica Paracas Necropolis, reunida a principios del siglo XX por el doctor Julio C. Tello, que custodia el Museo de Arqueologia y Antropologia de la Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos de Lima. Incluye una revision integral de los tejidos, e informacion sobre su temporalidad, elaboracion, funcion, iconografia y posibles usuarios [tildes omitidas].Save to LibraryDownloadby Delia Aponte•  6  Archaeology, Iconography, Andean Archaeology, Ancient TextilesPre-Columbian Textile Structures at Castillo de Huarmey, PeruSystematic excavations at the Castillo de Huarmey archaeological site, located on the North Coast of Peru, enabled researchers to collect an immense number of fabrics. During the first season of textile investigations, carried out in July... moreSystematic excavations at the Castillo de Huarmey archaeological site, located on the North Coast of Peru, enabled researchers to collect an immense number of fabrics. During the first season of textile investigations, carried out in July of 2014 by American and Polish researchers, 724 objects were examined, including textile fragments, yarns, and cordage. A general description of the basic structures indicates a variety of weaving techniques. Although the collection consists mainly of plain weave of all kinds, new structures such as three-dimensional cross-knit looping and feather-mosaic work were recognized, none of which were encountered among textiles collected from the surface in previous decades.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aleksandra Laszczka and +1Milosz Giersz•  9  Andean Archaeology, Textiles, Textile Archaeology, Andean Prehistory (Archaeology)The Fabric of the City: Imaging Textile Production in Classical AthensScenes of textile production on Athenian vases are often interpreted as confirming the oppression of women, who many argue were confined to "women's quarters" and exploited as free labor. However, reexamination of the... moreScenes of textile production on Athenian vases are often interpreted as confirming the oppression of women, who many argue were confined to "women's quarters" and exploited as free labor. However, reexamination of the iconography--together with a reconsideration of gender roles and the archaeology of Greek houses dating to the 5th and 4th centuries BC--suggests that these images idealize female contributions to the household in a positive way. The scenes utilize the dual metaphor of weaving and marriage to express the harmonia of oikos and polis, a theme particularly significant under the evolving Athenian democracy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sheramy Bundrick•  11  History of Textiles, Textile Archaeology, Greek Archaeology, Gender studies in ancient GreeceCoptic textiles. Collection of the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Art / О.В. Лечицкая. Коптские ткани ГМИИ им. А.С. Пушкина. Каталог коллекцииSave to LibraryDownloadby Olga Lechitskaya•  7  Textiles, Coptic Studies, Coptic textiles, Ancient Textiles“The Berlin Dragon-Phoenix Carpet and Its Probable Armenian Origin,” Armenian Rugs and Textiles. An Overview of Examples from Four Centuries, Exhibition catalogue, Vienna: Armenian Rugs Society, 2014, pp. 16-31.One of the most famous antique carpets, the Dragon and Phoenix rug now in Berlin: Museum fur Islamische Kunst, inventory # I. 4, has been unconvincingly and vaguely attributed to the 15th century as the work of Qaraqoyunlu Turkmen... moreOne of the most famous antique carpets, the Dragon and Phoenix rug now in Berlin: Museum fur Islamische Kunst, inventory # I. 4, has been unconvincingly and vaguely attributed to the 15th century as the work of Qaraqoyunlu Turkmen Dynasty.  This is in part due to late 19th and early 20th German scholarship that assumed rugs from the Near East were automatically the work of Islamic craftsmen and women, particularly Turkmen and later Ottoman, but with no precise documentation.  This general undocumented supposition also applied to Oriental carpets depicted in hundreds of Renaissance Italian paintings, although all of them are presented in a Christian context, particular associated with the Virgin Mary.  The author presents firm documentation involving both historical but especially earlier iconographical examples of the dragon-phoenix motif in Armenian art of the late 13th century, borrowed directly from the source of this coupling of animals, China during the Yuan Mongol Dynasty.  He suggests that its most convincing provenance is Armenia perhaps as early as the 14th century.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dickran Kouymjian•  37  Art History, Armenian Studies, Textiles, History of TextilesUnwrapping Ancient Egypt. London: Bloomsbury, 2014.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christina Riggs•  9  Egyptology, Anthropology, Museum Studies, TextilesLa production artisanale en Grèce, une approche spatiale et topographique, à partir des exemples de l'Attique et du Péloponnèse, VIIe-Ier s. av. J.-C., Paris, CTHS  (2013) fullSave to LibraryDownloadby Giorgos M. Sanidas•  26  Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Ancient economies (Archaeology), Greek ArchaeologyC. Corti, N. Giordani (a cura di), Tessuti, colori e vestiti del mondo antico. Momenti di archeologia sperimentale, Finale Emilia (MO) 2001Save to LibraryDownloadby Carla Corti•  5  Textiles, Textile Archaeology, Roman Economy, Ancient TextilesNextLast »Related TopicsTextile ArchaeologyFollowFollowingArchaeological textiles and clothingFollowFollowingHistory of TextilesFollowFollowingArchaeological textilesFollowFollowingPrehistoric Textiles, Dyeing, WeavingFollowFollowingAncient Textile TechnologyFollowFollowingTextilesFollowFollowingDress and Personal Adornment (Archaeology)FollowFollowingArchaeologyFollowFollowingAncient Technology (Archaeology)FollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023