Event-Related Potentials Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Event-Related Potentials14,860 FollowersRecent papers in Event-Related PotentialsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleDerrida 1986 Im Fadenkreuz der Tollheit maintenant die Architektur Übersetzung aus dem Französischen Ellen ReinkeMaintenant, dieses französische Wort werden wir nicht übersetzen. Warum? Aus einer ganzen Reihe von Gründen, die vielleicht unterwegs sichtbar werden, oder aber am Ende des Weges. Ich werde mich hier nämlich auf einen Weg einlassen, eher... moreMaintenant,  dieses französische Wort werden wir nicht übersetzen. Warum? Aus einer ganzen Reihe von Gründen, die vielleicht unterwegs sichtbar werden, oder aber am Ende des Weges. Ich werde mich hier nämlich auf einen Weg einlassen, eher gesagt einen Kurs unter anderen möglichen und konkurrierenden: Eine Reihe von kursiven Notationen quer durch die Folies von Bernard Tschumi, Punkt für Punkt, riskant, sprunghaft, dem Zufall geschuldet. Warum maintenant? Ich lege den Grund beiseite oder halte ihn in Reserve, ich setze ihn an den Rand, um das Siegel oder den Stempel dieser Sprache zu erhalten: Das wird an den Parc de la Villette in Frankreich erinnern-und ein Vorwand sein, dort den Ort für diese Tollheiten zu finden.2 Zweifellos nur ein Vorwand für unterwegs, eine Station, eine Phase, eine Pause im Lauf, aber der Vorwand wurde in Frankreich angeboten. Auf Französisch sagt man, daß sich eine Chance bietet, aber auch, nicht zu vergessen, ›einen Widerstand anbieten‹. 2 Maintenant, das Wort flattert nicht wie die Flagge der Aktualität, es führt nicht in brennende Fragen ein: Wie steht es mit der Architektur heute? Was denken wir über die architektonische Aktualität? Was gibt es Neues auf diesem Gebiet? Denn die Architektur definiert nicht mehr ein Gebiet. Im Fadenkreuz der Tollheit: maintenant die Architektur 1 1 Derrida, Jacques. "POINT DE FOLIE-MAINTENANT L'ARCHITECTURE. Bernard Tschumi: La Case Vide-La Villette, 1985." AA Files, no. 12 (1986): 65-75. Accessed October 14, 2020. http:// www.jstor.org/stable/29543519. 2 Der Parc de la Villette ist der größte Freizeitpark in Paris, von Tschumi entworfen und 1983 eröffnet.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ellen Reinke•  3  Derridean Deconstruction, Event-Related Potentials, Architecture and Public SpacesSize and probability of rewards modulate the feedback error-related negativity associated with wins but not losses in a monetarily rewarded gambling taskSave to LibraryDownloadby eahurtad@gmail.com Hurtado•  5  Psychology, Cognitive Science, Neuroeconomics, Decision MakingExamining the influence of perspective and prosody on expected emotional responses to irony: Evidence from event-related brain potentialsIronic language is typically more difficult to process and interpret than a literal equivalent, hence is assumed to serve several social and emotional functions not achieved by literal communication (such as politeness or introducing... moreIronic language is typically more difficult to process and interpret than a literal equivalent, hence is assumed to serve several social and emotional functions not achieved by literal communication (such as politeness or introducing humor). Several factors may influence emotional responses to irony, such as the perspective from which the utterance is encountered (e.g., speaker vs. target) and the tone of voice (prosody) used. To examine these issues, we conducted two event-related brain potential (ERP) studies in which participants listened to scenarios describing emotional responses to either literal criticism or ironic criticism. Ironic criticism was delivered with either natural or ironic prosody. Scenarios either described an emotional response the speaker expected to elicit from the target (speaker perspective), or the target’s actual emotional response (target perspective). Expected or actual emotional responses were described as either “amused” (Experiment 1) or “hurt” (Experiment 2). ERPs were calculated time-locked to the end of the ironic or literal statements, and to the audio presentation of the critical emotion words. Results showed a significant effect of perspective for amused conditions, reflected by a larger late posterior positivity for the target than speaker conditions, indicating amused responses are more expected from speaker than target perspective. This effect was not seen for hurt conditions, suggesting these are equally expected from target and speaker perspectives. The data also revealed a more negative-going ERP waveform specifically for ironic criticism delivered with ironic prosody, reflecting prosodic processing. This suggests prosody may be able to speed the identification of irony.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruth Filik•  18  Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, EmotionAn Introduction to Integrative Neuroscience: Considering the unique contributions of methodsSave to LibraryDownloadby Katherine S F Damme•  4  Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Positron Emission Tomography, Event-Related Potentials, Integrative NeuroscienceNeural evidence that inhibition is linked to the affective devaluation of distractors that match the contents of working memoryStimuli appearing as visual distractors subsequently receive more negative affective evaluations than novel items or prior targets of attention. Leading accounts question whether this distractor devaluation effect occurs through... moreStimuli appearing as visual distractors subsequently receive more negative affective evaluations than novel items or prior targets of attention. Leading accounts question whether this distractor devaluation effect occurs through evaluative codes that become associated with distractors as a mere artefact of attention-task instructions, or through affective consequences of attentional inhibition when applied to prevent distractor interference. Here we test opposing predictions arising from the evaluative-coding and devaluation-by-inhibition hypotheses using an electrophysiological marker of attentional inhibition in a task that requires participants to avoid interference from abstract-shape distractors presented while maintaining a uniquely-colored stimulus in memory. Consistent with prior research, distractors that matched the colour of the stimulus being held in memory elicited a Pd component of the event-related potential waveform, indicating that their processing was being actively suppressed. Subsequent affective evaluations revealed that memory-matching distractors also received more negative ratings than non-matching distractors or previously-unseen shapes. Moreover, Pd magnitude was greater on trials in which the memory-matching distractors were later rated negatively than on trials preceding positive ratings. These results support the devaluation-by-inhibition hypothesis and strongly suggest that fluctuations in stimulus inhibition are closely associated with subsequent affective evaluations. In contrast, none of the evaluative-coding based predictions were confirmed.Save to LibraryDownloadby David De Vito and +2Naseem Al-AidroosMark Fenske•  5  Attention, Working Memory, Event-Related Potentials, InhibitionMusical Experience and  Auditory P300  brain wave in Divided Attention Tasks, by Baribeau JacintheJ/ü TENNET VI 6. lvten performed the Kimura-typ€ sequencing task faster than women. This seems to contradict earlier reports by Kimura's laboratory in which women were reponed to be faster than mcn. Two cornmens seem appropriate. First.... moreJ/ü TENNET VI 6. lvten performed the Kimura-typ€ sequencing task faster than women. This seems to contradict earlier reports by Kimura's laboratory in which women were reponed to be faster than mcn. Two cornmens seem appropriate. First. our task involved larger manipuianda and distance. which might tïvor suength. Second. more recent repons from Kjmura's lab no longerrepon female superiority. F(1,75) = 14.5,p < .0OOl, Effect size .16, Power (.05) .96+. Discussion. The most important results are those involving the O'Connors task. Both finger use and rweezer use requirc fine dexteriry but when the tweezlrs are used. finger size is no longer a facror. The fact that women performed bener than men when pcrforming üe rask with the fingen but no bener than men when penorming the task *'ith rhe r'à/eezers suggests that sex differences on the h:rdue and others nslq can be amibuted to crivial periphcrai factors and not some inherent suocrioriry of women in ftne motor tasks. This is further confirmed by rhe lack of scx differences on the Notched Peg Task whjch requires fine positioning movements. but which has pegs Iarge enough ro be grasprd by larger 6ngers-The finger rapping task mighr involve a strength element (aithough wirhin scxcs rhere is no correlation between strength of hand and speed of tapping). Finally, rhe resulrs on the Kimura-ryp*e sequencing task confirm eerlier findings in our laboratory and, togeüer with the more recent findings from Kimura's laboratory indicated that statements about female superioriry on simple repedtive sequencing tasks are not justified. There are some imponant implicetions of rhese indings. Some of the performance changes reconed bv r number of researchers during different stages of the femaie reproductive cycie gain strengrh beceuse of e double dissociation bctween fr.ne motor and sparial tasks. The former are said to be done bener during sases with high tèrnaie hormones ("tasks thvoring fen:aies") while the laner are said to be perbrmed bener during stages when females hormones are low ("usks favoring maies"). Flowever. the doubie dissociation along these lines fails apan wheu the tasks , said to be favoring females, during high esrogen phases do not. in ury meamngful sense. favor femaies. F-3. Musicai Experience and Auditorv P300 in a Dividec Attenrion îask),p,. J.eclsrxE B ^erae.nçT B ran y B eave-^r. .{.\DRE w Àixrrr. eNo Rogerr !t. Roru *),«,-,'' üitttruton'oy !{wnun lteurolnrstulot|',ud Leun4ts:r't'àrtirryy. Corttttrtiiu (Jnnerstry Recent inlestt!::.rtlon:i :ta\e demonsrr.:terl trgniri=fit Jitfe:encc: rn P-:IXJ :moii-Tf ,' ï î :i I ï' : fi *1, i i i"ï liï" ;îft 11.î i,, Ï;, :iîiï: I ,.l' :::Save to LibraryDownloadby Jacinthe J Baribeau-Braun•  5  Auditory Perception, P300, Divided Attention, Event-Related PotentialsExploring the relation between festivals and host cities on Twitter: a study on the impacts of Lucca Comics & GamesSave to LibraryDownloadby Maria Luisa Catoni•  6  Festival Tourism, Event-Related Potentials, Socio-Cultural Impacts of Events, Social Networking & Social MediaThe N400 as a window into lexico-semantic processing in bilingualismEvent related potentials (ERPs) have frequently been employed to investigate language comprehension. One of the best researched language-related ERP components is the N400, which is sensitive to various linguistic factors (e.g.... moreEvent related potentials (ERPs) have frequently been employed to investigate language comprehension. One of the best researched language-related ERP components is the N400, which is sensitive to various linguistic factors (e.g. plausibility, word frequency, predictability, word-level associations), and is therefore commonly referred to as an index of lexico-semantic memory. Systematic research into electrophysiological indexes of lexico-semantic processing in bilingualism and its comparison with existing monolingual research remains a crucial research avenue. The following review synthesizes the literature on the N400 effects observed in bilingual language comprehension studies in the context of selected models of bilingual lexico-semantic processing (i.e. RHM, BIA+), points to potential reasons behind some contradictory results, presents current trends in ERP bilingual research, identifies gaps in this area of research, and, finally, proposes future research directions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Katarzyna  Jankowiak•  9  Languages and Linguistics, Semantics, Bilingualism & the brain, ElectroencephalographyGrowing Random Forests reveals that exposure and proficiency best account for individual variability in L2 (and L1) brain potentials for syntax and semanticsLate second language (L2) learners report difficulties in specific linguistic areas such as syntactic processing, presumably because brain plasticity declines with age (following the critical period hypothesis). While there is also... moreLate second language (L2) learners report difficulties in specific linguistic areas such as syntactic processing, presumably because brain plasticity declines with age (following the critical period hypothesis). While there is also evidence that L2 learners can achieve native-like online-processing with sufficient proficiency (following the convergence hypothesis), considering multiple mediating factors and their impact on language processing has proven challenging. We recorded EEG while native (n = 36) and L2-speakers of French (n = 40) read sentences that were either well-formed or contained a syntactic-category error. a lexical-semantic anomaly, or both. Consistent with the critical period hypothesis, group differences revealed that while native speakers elicited a biphasic N400-P600 in response to ungrammatical sentences, L2 learners as a group only elicited an N400. However, individual data modeling using a Random Forests approach revealed that language exposure and proficiency are the most reliable predictors in explaining ERP responses, with N400 and P600 effects becoming larger as exposure to French as well as proficiency increased, as predicted by the convergence hypothesis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lauren A Fromont and +2Phaedra RoyleKarsten  Steinhauer•  4  Second Language Acquisition, Neurolinguistics, Event-Related Potentials, Random ForestsThe effects of 8-weeks Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction program on cognitive control: an EEG studyObjectives Mindfulness practice can enhance different aspects of attentional functions, such as the ability to sustain the attentional focus over time. However, it is still unclear whether this practice might indeed impact higher... moreObjectivesMindfulness practice can enhance different aspects of attentional functions, such as the ability to sustain theattentional focus over time. However, it is still unclear whether this practice might indeed impact higher cognitivefunctions, such as control mechanisms that allow the appropriate and flexible allocation of attentional resources. In this longitudinal study, changes associated with a Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) program were investigated, with a focus on proactive and reactive cognitive control mechanisms, namely, the ability to maintain task-relevant information and to prepare in advance the response and the ability to promptly adjust overlearned behaviors in response to conflicting stimuli.MethodsTwo groups of participants took part in the study: 26 participants who completed a formal MBSR training (mean age = 43 years, females = 21) and 23 participants who performed a control training (mean age = 47.2 years, females = 20).They were tested on a modified AX-Continuous Performance Task (AX-CPT), before and after 8 training weeks. The electroencephalographic (EEG) signal was recorded during task execution, and amplitude modulations of eventrelated potentials (ERPs) associated with cues and probes were examined.ResultsAfter the training, the MBSR group exhibited a significant reduction of errors on high conflicting trials. Concurrently,the Contingent Negative Variation (CNV), an index of anticipatory processes, elicited by task cues became morepronounced in post-training session in the MBSR group only. In addition, an attenuated probe-locked N2 amplitudeand an increased P3a component emerged.ConclusionTaken together, the electrophysiological and behavioral results suggest that the mindfulness practice enhanced theability to implement both proactive and reactive cognitive control processes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonino Vallesi•  8  Cognitive Control, P300, Event-Related Potentials, MeditationNutritional Composition, Glycaemic Properties and Anti-Diabetic Potentials of Cereal-Based Soy-Fortified Flours for Functional Dough Meal in Diabetic Induced RatsThis study evaluated glycaemic properties and anti-diabetic potentials of blends of quality-protein-maize (QPM), soy-cake (DSF), millet (WMF) flours for functional dough meal using cassava starch (CST) as binder. Protein and crude fibre... moreThis study evaluated glycaemic properties and anti-diabetic potentials of blends of quality-protein-maize (QPM), soy-cake (DSF), millet (WMF) flours for functional dough meal using cassava starch (CST) as binder. Protein and crude fibre contents of blends were optimized using RSM and three blends with highest protein and fibre contents, XYZ=76.03% QPM, 16.76% DSF, 7.21% WMF, 5.00% cassava starch; BCD=72.50% QPM, 2.50% WMF, 25.0% DSF, 2.33% CST; FDT=80.52% QPM, 3.06% WMF, 16.42% DSF, 5.00%), QPM (100% QPM flour) and CER (commercial anti-diabetic flour formulation) were evaluated for glycaemic and biochemical properties and blood glucose-reducing potentials using Wistar rats. Glycaemic index and load were 34-52% and 8-15% respectively, which were lower than 55% and 20% for low glycaemic index and load. Blood glucose-reducing potentials of samples were in ascending order of BCD (57.5%) < FDT (70%) < XYZ (75%), with samples FDT and XYZ higher than 62.5% for sample STD (rats treated with synthetic anti-diabetic agent-Glibenclamide). Haematological indices, PVC, Hb, WBC and RBC, of rats fed on samples were 46.35-51.25%, 13.40-18.10g/L, 8.30-10.80 (x10/mm3) and 4.19-6.94 (x106) respectively, while kidney and liver functionality indices, aspartate amino transferases (AST), alanine amino transferases (ALT) and alkaline phosphate (ALP) were 39.5-43.00 μ/L, 48.50-55.50 μ/L and 92.80-104.20 μ/L, within normal ranges of 7-56μ/L, 45.7-80.8μ/L and 41-133 U/L, respectively. AST:ALT ratios were within standard value of <1. This study established that experimental samples, particularly XYZ, had low glycaemic properties, high anti-diabetic potentials, making them suitable for diabetes patients.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fortune  Journals•  2  Event-Related Potentials, Research on Anti Diabetic PlantsPsychophysiological Indices of Recognition MemoryIt has recently been found that during recognition memory tests participants’ pupils dilate more when they view old items compared to novel items. This thesis sought to replicate this novel ‘‘Pupil Old/New Effect’’ (PONE) and to determine... moreIt has recently been found that during recognition memory tests participants’ pupils dilate more when they view old items compared to novel items. This thesis sought to replicate this novel ‘‘Pupil Old/New Effect’’ (PONE) and to determine its relationship to implicit and explicit mnemonic processes, the veracity of participants’ responses, and the analogous Event-Related Potential (ERP) old/new effect. Across 9 experiments, pupil-size was measured with a video-based eye-tracker during a variety of recognition tasks, and, in the case of Experiment 8, with concurrent Electroencephalography (EEG). The main findings of this thesis are that:- the PONE occurs in a standard explicit test of recognition memory but not in “implicit” tests of either perceptual fluency or artificial grammar learning;- the PONE is present even when participants are asked to give false behavioural answers in a malingering task, or are asked not to respond at all;- the PONE is present when attention is divided both at learning and during recognition;- the PONE is accompanied by a posterior ERP old/new effect;- the PONE does not occur when participants are asked to read previously encountered words without making a recognition decision;- the PONE does not occur if participants preload an “old/new” response;- the PONE is not enhanced by repetition during learning.These findings are discussed in the context of current models of recognition memory and other psychophysiological indices of mnemonic processes. It is argued that together these findings suggest that the increase in pupil-size which occurs when participants encounter previously studied items is not under conscious control and may reflect primarily recollective processes associated with recognition memory.Save to LibraryDownloadby Becky Heaver•  28  Psychophysiology, Memory (Cognitive Psychology), Learning & Memory, Eye trackingPR220 Event Management in Public RelationsSave to LibraryDownloadby HAKAN TURKKUSU•  72  Marketing, Intercultural Communication, Tourism Marketing, Festivals and musicFestivalization; the boom in eventsEventification as a social trend has spawned a boom in autonomous events and places (zones), like festivals and free cultural spaces. This is becoming not only an industry, but a social phenomenon, where social and political change... moreEventification as a social trend has spawned a boom in autonomous events and places (zones), like festivals and free cultural spaces. This is becoming not only an industry, but a social phenomenon, where social and political change emerges. Burning Man, Ruigoord, Boom, Christiania and the history of autonomous initiatives (Hakim Bey) are discussed in a context of psychological and social needs, escapism, and the experience economy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luc  Sala and +1Wolfgang Sterneck•  13  Evolutionary Psychology, Event Management, Mega Events As Catalysts For Regeneration, PsychedelicsCONTOH PROPOSAL EVENT MANAGEMENT ADELE ORGANIZER.pptxberisikan tentang proposal event management, event organizerSave to LibraryDownloadby Adelia  Syahputri•  16  Communication, Event Management, Public Relations, Events managementThe Prevention, Diagnosis, and Treatment of DyslexiaSUMMARY Background: Reading and spelling disorder (dyslexia) is one of the more common specific developmental disorders, with a prevalence of approximately 5%. It is characterized by severe impairment of learning to read and spell.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gerd Schulte-Körne•  5  Depression, Dyslexia, Event-Related Potentials, DyscalculiaZoogenesis: Thinking Encounter with AnimalsZoogenesis: Thinking Encounter with Animals offers radical new possibilities for encountering and thinking with other animals, and thus for the politics of animal liberation. Examining the machinations of power that legitimize the killing... moreZoogenesis: Thinking Encounter with Animals offers radical new possibilities for encountering and thinking with other animals, and thus for the politics of animal liberation. Examining the machinations of power that legitimize the killing of nonhuman animals, Zoogenesis shows too how thoroughly entangled they are with the 'noncriminal' putting to death of human animals. Such legitimation consists in a theatrics of displacement that transforms singular, nonsubstitutable living beings into mute, subjugated bodies that may be slaughtered but never murdered. Nothing less than the economy of genocide, Iveson thereafter explores the possibility of interventions that function in the opposite direction to this 'animalizing' displacement - interventions that potentially make it unthinkable that living beings can be 'legitimately' slaughtered. Along the way, Zoogenesis tracks just such 'animal encounters' across various disciplinary boundaries - stumbling across their traces in a short story by Franz Kafka, in the bathroom of Jacques Derrida, in a politically galvanising slogan, in the deaths of centipedes both actual and fictional, in the newfound plasticity of the gene, and in the sharing of an inhuman knowledge that saves novelist William S. Burroughs from a life of deadly ignorance. Such encounters, argues Iveson, are zoo-genetic, with zoogenesis naming the emergence of a new living being that interrupts habitual instrumentalisation and exploitation. With this creative event, a new conception of the political emerges which, as the necessary supplement of an ethical demand, offers potentially radical new ways of being with other animals. Reviews:"Encounters between human living, and other living entities, and between fictive and imaginary, Aristotelian and Cartesian animals are here staged with respect to competing notions of life and value, of writing and of literature. ...Richard Iveson reads a variety of sources with insight and discrimination, contributing highly effectively to this recently emergent and rapidly expanding new life form: zoogenesis" - Joanna Hodge, Professor of Philosophy at Manchester Metropolitan University, and author of Derrida on Time (2007). "one of the most thorough and exhaustive treatments of philosophy's recent encounters with animality ... With both impressive scope and penetrating critique, Zoogenesis allows us to think through a comprehensive rearticulation of 'the human' in a radically subversive manner" - John Ó Maoilearca, Professor of Film Studies at Kingston University, London, and author of Postural Mutations: Laruelle and Nonhuman Philosophy (2015).Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard Iveson•  15  Political Philosophy, Human-Animal Relations, Animal Studies, DeconstructionAre Potency and Actuality Compatible in Aristotle?The belief that Aristotle opposes potency (dunamis) to actuality (energeia or entelecheia) has gone mostly untested. This essay defines and distinguishes forms of the Opposition Hypothesis—the Actualization, Privation, and Modal—examining... moreThe belief that Aristotle opposes potency (dunamis) to actuality (energeia or entelecheia) has gone mostly untested. This essay defines and distinguishes forms of the Opposition Hypothesis—the Actualization, Privation, and Modal—examining the texts and arguments adduced to support them. Using Aristotle's own account of opposition, the texts appear instead to show that potency and actuality are compatible, while arguments for their opposition produce intractable problems. Notably, Aristotle's refutation of the Megarian Identity Hypothesis applies with equal or greater force to the Opposition Hypothesis. For Aristotle, then, potency and actuality are compatible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mark Sentesy•  68  Metaphysics, Ontology, Aristotle, History of ScienceA neurolinguistic investigation of late-learned second language knowledge: The effects of explicit and implicit conditionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Kara Morgan-Short•  3  Second Language Acquisition, Event-Related Potentials, Implicit and explicit instruction in L2 learningThe neurobiology of emotion-cognition  interactions: Fundamental questions and strategies for future researchRecent years have witnessed the emergence of powerful new tools for assaying the brain and a remarkable acceleration of research focused on the interplay of emotion and cognition. This work has begun to yield new insights into fundamental... moreRecent years have witnessed the emergence of powerful new tools for assaying the brain and a remarkable acceleration of research focused on the interplay of emotion and cognition. This work has begun to yield new insights into fundamental questions about the nature of the mind and important clues about the origins of mental illness. In particular, this research demonstrates that stress, anxiety, and other kinds of emotion can profoundly influence key elements of cognition, including selective attention, working memory, and cognitive control. Often, this influence persists beyond the duration of transient emotional challenges, partially reflecting the slower molecular dynamics of catecholamine and hormonal neurochemistry. In turn, circuits involved in attention, executive control, and working memory contribute to the regulation of emotion. The distinction between the ‘emotional’ and the ‘cognitive’ brain is fuzzy and context-dependent. Indeed, there is compelling evidence that brain territories and psychological processes commonly associated with cognition, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and working memory, play a central role in emotion. Furthermore, putatively emotional and cognitive regions influence one another via a complex web of connections in ways that jointly contribute to adaptive and maladaptive behavior. This work demonstrates that emotion and cognition are deeply interwoven in the fabric of the brain, suggesting that widely held beliefs about the key constituents of ‘the emotional brain’ and ‘the cognitive brain’ are fundamentally flawed. We conclude by outlining several strategies for enhancing future research. Developing a deeper understanding of the emotional-cognitive brain is important, not just for understanding the mind but also for elucidating the root causes of its disorders.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Shackman and +1Hadas Okon-singer•  29  Neuroscience, Social Psychology, Emotion, PsychiatryIndividual Differences in Context: A Neurolinguistic Investigation of Working Memory and L2 DevelopmentSave to LibraryDownloadby Mandy Faretta-Stutenberg•  6  Working Memory, Neurolinguistics, Study Abroad, Event-Related PotentialsManifestacioni turizam u Srbiji u uslovima civilizacijskih konfrontacijaSave to LibraryDownloadby Saša Đorđević and +1Srednja Škola Dositej•  5  Globalisation and Development, Developing Countries, Event-Related Potentials, Cultural Globalization"Don't You See What's Going on Here?" Seinfeld and Badiou on Situations and EventsFar from being merely "a show about nothing," this article argues that the American television sitcom Seinfeld (1989-1998) managed to develop a sophisticated theory of situations and events in modern life. The show explored a rich and... moreFar from being merely "a show about nothing," this article argues that the American television sitcom Seinfeld (1989-1998) managed to develop a sophisticated theory of situations and events in modern life. The show explored a rich and humorous multiplicity of everyday situations and events that took its main characters and audience members alike to the very limits of their conventional lives. Yet Seinfeld consistently stopped short of raising larger political stakes in these explorations. In other words, Seinfeld never took its critique of everyday modern life to a structural level, that is, to the historical forces and social relations that shape contemporary situations and events. By bringing Seinfeld into an intellectual encounter with communist philosopher Alain Badiou's work on situations and events, I argue that we can gain a deeper appreciation of both sides and rethink the political and aesthetic potential of situation comedy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rohan Kalyan•  17  Philosophy, Media Studies, Television Studies, Genre studiesThe Phonetics-Phonology Relationship in the Neurobiology of LanguageIn this work, I address the connection of phonetic structure with phonological representations. This classical issue is discussed in the light of recent neurophysiological data which – thanks to direct measurements of temporal and spatial... moreIn this work, I address the connection of phonetic structure with phonological representations. This classical issue is discussed in the light of recent neurophysiological data which – thanks to direct measurements of temporal and spatial brain activation – provide new avenues to investigate the biological substrate of human language. After describing principal techniques and methods, I critically discuss magnetoencephalographic and electroencephalographic findings of speech processing based on event-related potentials and event-related oscillatory rhythms. The available data do not permit us to clearly disambiguate between neural evidence suggesting pure acoustic patterns and those indicating abstract phonological features. Starting from this evidence, which only at the surface represents a limit, I develop a preliminary proposal where discretization and phonological abstraction are the result of a continuous process that converts spectro-temporal (acoustic) states into neurophysiological states such that some properties of the former undergo changes interacting with the latter until a new equilibrium is reached. I assume that – at the end of the process – phonological segments (and the related categorical processes) take the form of continuous neural states represented by nested cortical oscillatory rhythms spatially distributed in the auditory cortex. Within this perspective, distinctive features (i.e., the relevant representational linguistic primitives) are represented by both spatially local and distributed neural selectivity. I suggest that this hypothesis is suitable to explain hierarchical layout of auditory cortex highly specialized in analyzing different aspects of the speech signal and to explain learning and memory processes during the acquisition of phonological systems.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mirko Grimaldi•  8  Neural Oscillations, Event-Related Potentials, Phonetics and Phonology, OscillationsImpacto de los festivales en el turismo patrimonial: el caso del Festival Internacional CervantinoEn los últimos años las ciudades turísticas patrimoniales han mostrado un interés creciente por consolidarse en el mercado de los eventos. Estos tienen importantes ventajas competitivas frente a otros productos, ya que los visitantes... moreEn los últimos años las ciudades turísticas patrimoniales han mostrado un interés creciente por consolidarse en el mercado de los eventos. Estos tienen importantes ventajas competitivas frente a otros productos, ya que los visitantes gastan más que la media (Herrero et al., 2012), se mejora la imagen de marca de la ciudad (Richards y Wilson, 2007), sirven para diferenciarespacios similares en muchas ciudades (Bernad Monferrer, 2011) y son más versátiles que otros recursos como el patrimonio edificado. El objetivo de la investigación es analizar el impacto del Festival Internacional Cervantino en la percepción de los turistas en Guanajuato (México) y en la visita a sus recursos patrimoniales. Para ello, se han aplicado cuestionariossiguiendo la metodología Event Experience Scale (EES), con la que están trabajando actualmente miembros del grupo ATLAS Event Experience Research Project en casos similares de varios países. Para el caso concreto de Guanajuato se llevaron a cabo 230 encuestas a asistentes durante la edición del festival en 2015. De la investigación se puede concluir que existe una diferencia importante en la percepción del festival entre visitanteslocales, nacionales y extranjeros. La visita a recursos patrimoniales difiere de la esperada ante una llegada tan masiva de visitantes y de acuerdo con la promoción que se hace de los atractivos de la ciudad.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Barrera-Fernández and +1Marco Hernández-Escampa•  74  Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Cultural Geography, Tourism StudiesThe integration of negative affect, pain and cognitive control in the cingulate cortexIt has been argued that emotion, pain and cognitive control are functionally segregated in distinct subdivisions of the cingulate cortex. However, recent observations encourage a fundamentally different view. Imaging studies demonstrate... moreIt has been argued that emotion, pain and cognitive control are functionally segregated in distinct subdivisions of the cingulate cortex. However, recent observations encourage a fundamentally different view. Imaging studies demonstrate that negative affect, pain and cognitive control activate an overlapping region of the dorsal cingulate — the anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC). Anatomical studies reveal that the aMCC constitutes a hub where information about reinforcers can be linked to motor centres responsible for expressing affect and executing goal-directed behaviour. Computational modelling and other kinds of evidence suggest that this intimacy reflects control processes that are common to all three domains. These observations compel a reconsideration of the dorsal cingulate's contribution to negative affect and pain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Shackman and +1Tim Salomons•  66  Neuroscience, Psychology, Neuropsychology, EmotionMechanisms of mindfulness: The dynamics of affective adaptation during open monitoringMindfulness - the nonjudgmental awareness of the present experience - is thought to facilitate affective adaptation through increased exposure to emotions and faster extinction of habitual responses. To test this framework, the... moreMindfulness - the nonjudgmental awareness of the present experience - is thought to facilitate affective adaptation through increased exposure to emotions and faster extinction of habitual responses. To test this framework, the amplification of the Late Positive Potential (LPP) by negative relative to neutral images was analyzed across stimulus repetitions while 37 novices performed an open monitoring mindfulness exercise. Compared to two active control conditions where attention was either diverted to a distracting task or the stimuli were attended without mindfulness instructions, open monitoring enhanced the initial LPP response to negative stimuli, indicating increased emotional exposure. Across successive repetitions, mindfulness reduced and ultimately removed the affective LPP amplification, suggesting extinction of habitual emotional reactions. This effect arose from reduced negative as well enlarged neutral LPPs. Unlike stimuli from control conditions, the images previously viewed with mindfulness instructions did not elicit affective LPP amplification during subsequent re-exposure, suggesting reconsolidation of stimulus meaning.Save to LibraryDownloadby Helen  Uusberg and +1Andero Uusberg•  5  Mindfulness, Electroencephalography, Event-Related Potentials, DistractionERPs show that classroom-instructed late second language learners rely on the same prosodic cues in syntactic parsing as native speakersSave to LibraryDownloadby Bertram Opitz and +2Stefanie NickelsKarsten  Steinhauer•  6  Cognitive Science, Speech Prosody, Syntax, NeurolinguisticsNeural Indices of Semantic Processing in Early Childhood Distinguish Eventual Stuttering Persistence and RecoveryPurpose: Maturation of neural processes for language has been found to lag in some children who stutter (CWS), and event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were found to distinguish CWS who have recovered from those who have persisted. The... morePurpose: Maturation of neural processes for language has been found to lag in some children who stutter (CWS), and event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were found to distinguish CWS who have recovered from those who have persisted. The current study explores whether ERPs indexing language processing may distinguish children who will eventually persist (CWS-ePersisted) from those who will recover (CWS-eRecovered).  Method: Fifty-six 5-year-old children with normal receptive language listened to naturally spoken sentences in a story context. ERP components elicited for semantic processing (N400, LPC) were compared for CWS-ePersisted, CWS-eRecovered, and children who did not stutter (CWNS).Results: The N400 elicited by semantic violations has a more focused scalp distribution (left lateralized and less anterior) in the CWS-eRecovered compared to CWS-ePersisted. And while the LPC elicited in CWS-eRecovered and CWNS did not differ, the LPC elicited in the CWS-ePersisted was smaller in amplitude compared to CWNS. Conclusions: ERPs elicited in 5-year-old CWS-eRecovered compared to CWS-ePersisted suggests that future recovery from stuttering may be associated with earlier maturation of semantic processes in the preschool years. Subtle differences in ERP indices offer a window into neural maturation processes for language and may help distinguish the course of stuttering development.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kathryn V Kreidler•  4  Language Development, Stuttering, Event-Related Potentials, Neurodevelopmental DisordersЧОГО ЧЕКАЮ ВІД ЖИТТЯ. ЖИТТЄВІ ДОМАГАННЯ ОСОБИСТОСТІ // Розділи Титаренко у книжці: Життєві домагання особистості.- Кол. моногр.- К., 2007. – 456 с.Глави Титаренко Т.М. з колективної монографії: 1.Життєві домагання як соціально-психологічний механізм самоздійснення особистості. 2.Особистісний потенціал і побудова моделей майбутнього. 3.Технології формування життєвих домагань як... moreГлави Титаренко Т.М. з колективної монографії: 1.Життєві домагання як соціально-психологічний механізм самоздійснення особистості. 2.Особистісний потенціал і побудова моделей майбутнього.3.Технології формування життєвих домагань як способу керівництва часом життяSave to LibraryDownloadby Tetiana  Tytarenko•  5  Personality Psychology, Narrative and Identity, Event-Related Potentials, LifetimeFrontal midline theta reflects anxiety and cognitive control:  Meta-analytic evidenceEvidence from imaging and anatomical studies suggests that the midcingulate cortex (MCC) is a dynamic hub lying at the interface of affect and cognition. In particular, this neural system appears to integrate information about conflict... moreEvidence from imaging and anatomical studies suggests that the midcingulate cortex (MCC) is a dynamic hub lying at the interface of affect and cognition. In particular, this neural system appears to integrate information about conflict and punishment in order to optimize behavior in the face of action-outcome uncertainty. In a series of meta-analyses, we show how recent human electrophysiological research provides compelling evidence that frontal-midline theta signals reflecting MCC activity are moderated by anxiety and predict adaptive behavioral adjustments. These findings underscore the importance of frontal theta activity to a broad spectrum of control operations. We argue that frontal-midline theta provides a neurophysiologically plausible mechanism for optimally adjusting behavior to uncertainty, a hallmark of situations that elicit anxiety and demand cognitive control. These observations compel a new perspective on the mechanisms guiding motivated learning and behavior and provide a framework for understanding the role of the MCC in temperament and psychopathology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Shackman•  105  Psychology, Biological Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Cognitive Behavioral TherapyWavelet Filtering of the P300 Component in Event-Related PotentialsSave to LibraryDownloadby David Bunce and +1Leila Ayoubian•  5  P300, Event-Related Potentials, EEG Signal Processing, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)Exceptions and anomalies: An ERP study on context sensitivity in autismSave to LibraryDownloadby Judith  Pijnacker•Event-Related PotentialsA red code triggers an unintended approach motivation toward sweet ultra- processed foods: Possible implications for front-of-pack labelsFront-of-package labels (FOPL) are recommended to reduce consumer intake of ultra-processed food products (UPP). The multiple traffic-light label is one example of FOPL that indicates the content of target nutrients in products by... moreFront-of-package labels (FOPL) are recommended to reduce consumer intake of ultra-processed food products (UPP). The multiple traffic-light label is one example of FOPL that indicates the content of target nutrients in products by displaying red (high), amber (medium), and/or green (low) color-coding. The red code may implicitly enhance sweetness perception and approach dispositions toward sweet UPP via cross-modal visual-taste interactions. We conducted two experiments to examine the possibility of contradictory influence of explicitly learned and implicit cross-modal associations on the emotional responses evoked by UPP pictures. In both experiments , we first explicitly associated the color codes with health-related meanings. In Experiment I (n = 78), a psychometric tool estimated the emotional responses (pleasantness and arousal ratings) evoked by UPP pictures when preceded by red, amber, or green color-codes. In Experiment II (n = 24), we recorded participants' electrocortical brain activity to assess the early posterior negativity (EPN) component as an index of the emotional responses to UPP. The reported pleasantness (Experiment I) and the EPN amplitude (Experiment II) were greater for sweet UPP relative to salty UPP when primed with red codes but not when primed with green or amber. A red code increased positive emotions toward sweet UPP despite its explicit association with increased health-risks. Thus, the use of multiple traffic-lights might lead to an unintended implicit approach behavior toward sweet UPP. Designers, researchers, and policy makers may consider color-taste cross-modal associations when designing, testing, and applying FOPL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rafaela Campagnoli•  5  Event-Related Potentials, EPN, Ultra-processed foods, front of package nutrition labelingNeuro Cognitive Improvement During Pregnancy: An Auditory Event Related Potential (ERP) and Neuropsychological StudyBackground: Although there is increasing research interest in auditory cognitive function among pregnant women, little is known about auditory cognitive function during the second (mid) and third trimesters of pregnancy. Therefore, we... moreBackground: Although there is increasing research interest in auditory cognitive function among pregnant women, little is known about auditory cognitive function during the second (mid) and third trimesters of pregnancy. Therefore, we investigated auditory cognitive and behavioral functions during the mid-and third trimesters of pregnancy using event related potentials (ERPs) and neuropsychological tests, respectively.Save to LibraryDownloadby atiyah  ali•  9  Neuroscience, Executive Functions (Cognitive Neuroscience), Cognitive Neuroscience, NeurocognitiveElectrophysiological Approaches to Understanding Second Language Acquisition: A Field Reaching its PotentialThe present article provides a review of results from electrophysiological studies of the neurocognition of second language. After a brief introduction to eventrelated potentials (ERPs), the article explores four sets of findings from... moreThe present article provides a review of results from electrophysiological studiesof the neurocognition of second language. After a brief introduction to eventrelatedpotentials (ERPs), the article explores four sets of findings from recentsecond language (L2) ERP research. First, longitudinal L2 ERP researchhas demonstrated that L2 neurocognitive processing changes qualitatively withtime. Second, research has shown that L2 learners can evidence nativelike ERPeffects for L2 grammatical features that are present in their first language (L1) aswell as for features that are unique to their L2 but may have more difficulty processingfeatures that are present in their L1 but that are instantiated differentlyin their L2. Third, emerging research has revealed that individual differences inERPs can be accounted for by linguistic and nonlinguistic factors. Finally, recentempirical studies have shown that explicit and implicit training contexts canlead to nativelike ERP effects at high levels of proficiency, but that implicit contextsmay lead to the development of a fuller nativelike processing signature, atleast for syntactic processing.With continued interdisciplinary approaches and sophisticated research designs, L2 ERP research is only  beginning to reach its potential and promises to uniquely inform central questions of second language acquisition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kara Morgan-Short•  4  Second Language Acquisition, Psycholinguistics, Neurolinguistics, Event-Related PotentialsAn ERP study of regular and irregular English past tense inflectionSave to LibraryDownloadby Aaron Newman•  3  Languages and Linguistics, Morphology, Event-Related PotentialsMultiple influences of semantic memory on sentence processing: Distinct effects of semantic relatedness on violations of real-world event/state knowledge and animacy selection restrictionsWe aimed to determine whether semantic relatedness between an incoming word and its preceding context can override expectations based on two types of stored knowledge: real-world knowledge about the specific events and states conveyed by... moreWe aimed to determine whether semantic relatedness between an incoming word and its preceding context can override expectations based on two types of stored knowledge: real-world knowledge about the specific events and states conveyed by a verb, and the verb's broader selection restrictions on the animacy of its argument. We recorded event-related potentials on post-verbal Agent arguments as participants read and made plausibility judgments about passive English sentences. The N400 evoked by incoming animate Agent arguments that violated expectations based on real-world event/state knowledge, was strongly attenuated when they were semantically related to the context. In contrast, semantic relatedness did not modulate the N400 evoked by inanimate Agent arguments that violated the preceding verb’s animacy selection restrictions. These findings suggest that, under these task and experimental conditions, semantic relatedness can facilitate processing of post-verbal animate arguments that violate specific expectations based on real-world event/state knowledge, but only when the semantic features of these arguments match the coarser- grained animacy restrictions of the verb. Animacy selection restriction violations also evoked a P600 effect, which was not modulated by semantic relatedness, suggesting that it was triggered by propositional impossibility. Together, these data indicate that the brain distinguishes between real-world event/state knowledge and animacy-based selection restrictions during online processing.Save to LibraryDownloadby Martin Paczynski•  14  Cognitive Psychology, Semantics, Psycholinguistics, Cognitive NeuropsychologyWhat's your neural function, visual narrative conjunction? Grammar, meaning, and fluency in sequential image processingVisual narratives sometimes depict successive images with different characters in the same physical space; corpus analysis has revealed that this occurs more often in Japanese manga than American comics. We used event-related brain... moreVisual narratives sometimes depict successive images with different characters in the same physical space; corpus analysis has revealed that this occurs more often in Japanese manga than American comics. We used event-related brain potentials to determine whether comprehension of " visual narrative conjunctions " invokes not only incremental mental updating as traditionally assumed, but also, as we propose, " grammatical " combinatoric processing. We thus crossed (non)/conjunction sequences with character (in)/congruity. Conjunctions elicited a larger anterior negativity (300–500 ms) than nonconjunctions, regardless of congruity, implicating " grammatical " processes. Conjunction and incongruity both elicited larger P600s (500–700 ms), indexing updating. Both conjunction effects were modulated by participants' frequency of reading manga while growing up. Greater anterior negativity in frequent manga readers suggests more reliance on combinatoric processing; larger P600 effects in infrequent manga readers suggest more resources devoted to mental updating. As in language comprehension, it seems that processing conjunctions in visual narratives is not just mental updating but also partly grammatical, conditioned by comic readers' experience with specific visual narrative structures.Save to LibraryDownloadby Neil Cohn•  22  Discourse Analysis, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Languages and LinguisticsPunctuation and Implicit Prosody in Silent Reading: An ERP Study Investigating English Garden-Path SentencesThis study presents the first two ERP reading studies of comma-induced effects of covert (implicit) prosody on syntactic parsing decisions in English. The first experiment used a balanced 2 × 2 design in which the presence/absence of... moreThis study presents the first two ERP reading studies of comma-induced effects of covert (implicit) prosody on syntactic parsing decisions in English. The first experiment used a balanced 2 × 2 design in which the presence/absence of commas determined plausibility (e.g., John, said Mary, was the nicest boy at the party vs. John said Mary was the nicest boy at the party). The second reading experiment replicated a previous auditory study investigating the role of overt prosodic boundaries in closure ambiguities (Pauker et al., 2011). In both experiments, commas reliably elicited CPS components and generally played a dominant role in determining parsing decisions in the face of input ambiguity. The combined set of findings provides further evidence supporting the claim that mechanisms subserving speech processing play an active role during silent reading.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten  Steinhauer•  9  Speech Prosody, Prosody-Syntax, Prosody, Event-Related PotentialsCh6 - Telos as Source.docxThis paper clarifies the way Aristotle uses generation (γένεσις) to establish the priority of activity (ἐνέργεια) in time and in being. It opens by examining the concept of genetic priority. The argument for priority in beinghood has two... moreThis paper clarifies the way Aristotle uses generation (γένεσις) to establish the priority of activity (ἐνέργεια) in time and in being. It opens by examining the concept of genetic priority. The argument for priority in beinghood has two parts: the first part is a synthetic argument that accomplishment (τέλος) is the primary kind of source (ἀρχή), and it is based on the structure of generation. The second part engages three critical objections to the claim that activity could be an accomplishment: i) activity appears to lack its own structure, ii) activity is different in kind from the object it accomplishes, and iii) activity is external to its accomplishment. Aristotle responds to these objections by analyzing the structure of generation. In the course of the argument, Aristotle establishes that beinghood and form are activity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mark Sentesy•  20  Metaphysics, Aristotle, History of Science, History of Philosophy of ScienceTesting theories of irony processing using eye-tracking and ERPsNot much is known about how people comprehend ironic utterances, and to date, most studies have simply compared processing of ironic vs. non-ironic statements. A key aspect of the graded salience hypothesis, distinguishing it from other... moreNot much is known about how people comprehend ironic utterances, and to date, most studies have simply compared processing of ironic vs. non-ironic statements. A key aspect of the graded salience hypothesis, distinguishing it from other accounts (such as the standard pragmatic view and direct access view), is that it predicts differences between processing of familiar and unfamiliar ironies. Specifically, if an ironic utterance is familiar, then the ironic interpretation should be available without the need for extra inferential processes, whereas for unfamiliar ironies, the literal interpretation would be computed first, and a mismatch with context would lead to a re-interpretation of the statement as being ironic. We recorded participants’ eye movements while they were reading (Experiment 1), and electrical brain activity while they were listening to (Experiment 2), familiar and unfamiliar ironies compared to non-ironic controls. Results showed disruption to eye movements, and an N400-like effect for unfamiliar ironies only, supporting the predictions of the graded salience hypothesis. In addition, in Experiment 2, a late positivity was found for both familiar and unfamiliar ironic materials, compared to non-ironic controls. We interpret this positivity as reflecting ongoing conflict between the literal and ironic interpretations of the utterance.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruth Filik•  20  Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Languages and LinguisticsЛандшафт життєтворення як територія особистісних змін: типологія і динамікаLife-landscape as a territory of personal change: typology and dynamics Summary. The landscape of life-designing is regarded as a temporary life-territory of the individual with specific characteristics of his own past, present, and... moreLife-landscape as a territory of personal change: typology and dynamicsSummary. The landscape of life-designing is regarded as a temporary life-territory of the individual with specific characteristics of his own past, present, and future, with special semantic content. Determinants of personal life`s landscape-designing are determined: the level of new experience comprehension, value priorities, awareness of a different direction of life path, desire to continue the current life project or radically change it. The triggers of landscape change were found out: extreme situations, traumatic events, life crises. The life-changes of the person, which she achieves, getting into the existential landscape, are considered: 1) acceptance, comprehension, interpretation, and integration of the acquired traumatic experience; 2) re-evaluation of the trauma experience not only in the negative but also in the positive emotional register; 3) building of deeper and sincere relationships with meaningful people; 4) deepening understanding of extreme life situations as trials that have been overcome; 5) awareness of one's own individual qualities, which made it possible to survive and recover; 6) constructive rethinking of the new possibilities, new horizons, which opened in the post-traumatic period. The types of landscapes that people choose after constructively overcoming the existential landscape are defined: these are landscapes of service, self-realization, pragmatic, family. The types of landscapes that are chosen by a person after the unconstructive overcoming of the existential landscape are considered: these are hedonistic and consumerist landscapes.Keywords: the landscape of life; the territory of life, determinants of landscape design, changes in life, existential landscape, types of landscapes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tetiana  Tytarenko•  13  Social Change, Personality Psychology, Developmental Psychology, Cognitive SemanticsAttention biases in preoccupation with body image: An ERP study of the role of social comparison and automaticity when processing body sizeAppearance-related attention biases are thought to contribute to body image disturbances. We investigated how preoccupation with body image is associated with attention biases to body size, focusing on the role of social comparison... moreAppearance-related attention biases are thought to contribute to body image disturbances. We investigated how preoccupation with body image is associated with attention biases to body size, focusing on the role of social comparison processes and automaticity. Thirty-six women varying on self-reported preoccupation compared their actual body size to size-modified images of either themselves or a figure-matched peer. Amplification of earlier (N170, P2) and later (P3, LPP) ERP components recorded under low vs. high concurrent working memory load were analyzed. Women with high preoccupation exhibited an earlier bias to larger bodies of both self and peer. During later processing stages, they exhibited a stronger bias to enlarged as well as reduced self-images and a lack of sensitivity to size-modifications of the peer-image. Working memory load did not affect these biases systematically. Current findings suggest that preoccupation with body image involves an earlier attention bias to weight increase cues and later over-engagement with own figure.Save to LibraryDownloadby Helen  Uusberg and +1Krista Peet•  9  Automaticity, Social Comparison, Electroencephalography, Body ImageAnalytical Solution Of Schrödinger Equation With Mie–Type Potential Using Factorisation Methodwe have obtained the analytical solution of Schrödinger wave equation with Mie – type potential using factorization method. We have also obtained energy eigenvalues of our potential and the corresponding wave function using an ansatz and... morewe have obtained the analytical solution of Schrödinger wave equation with Mie – type potential using factorization method. We have also obtained energy eigenvalues of our potential and the corresponding wave function using an ansatz and then compare the result to standard Laguerre's differential equation. Under special cases our potential model reduces two well known potentials such as Coulomb and the Kratzer Feus potentials.Save to LibraryDownloadby International Journal of Recent advances in Physics  (IJRAP)•  8  Event-Related Potentials, PACS, Factorization, Schrodinger equationOmega-3 fatty acids are related to abnormal emotion processing in adolescent boys with attention deficit hyperactivity disorderBackground: In addition to the core symptoms, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with poor emotion regulation. There is some evidence that children and young adults with ADHD have lower omega-3 levels and that... moreBackground: In addition to the core symptoms, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with poor emotion regulation. There is some evidence that children and young adults with ADHD have lower omega-3 levels and that supplementation with omega-3 can improve both ADHD and affective symptoms. We therefore investigated differences between ADHD and non-ADHD children inomega-3/6 fatty acid plasma levels and the relationship between those indices and emotion-elicited event-related potentials (ERPs).Methods: Children/adolescents with (n = 31) and without ADHD (n = 32) were compared in their plasma omega-3/6 indices and corresponding ERPs during an emotion processing task.Results: Children with ADHD had lower mean omega-3/6 and ERP abnormalities in emotion processing, independent of emotional valence relative to control children. ERP abnormalities were significantly associated with lower omega-3 levels in the ADHD group.Conclusions: The findings reveal for the first time that lower omega-3 fatty acids are associated with impaired emotion processing in ADHD children.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dan Wilson•  4  Emotion, ADHD (Psychology), Event-Related Potentials, Omega-3 fatty acidsExplicit and implicit second language training differentially affect the achievement of native-like brain activation patternsSave to LibraryDownloadby Kara Morgan-Short•  4  Second Language Acquisition, Word order, Event-Related Potentials, Implicit and explicit instruction in L2 learningОСОБИСТІСНИЙ ПОТЕНЦІАЛ ЯК КОНЦЕПТУАЛЬНА МАТРИЦЯ МОДЕЛЮВАННЯ МАЙБУТНЬОГО//Вісник Прикарпатського університету. Філософські і психологічні науки. Вип. 9 / - Івано-Франківськ : ВДВ ЦІТ, 2006.- С. 124-134Серед джерел людської потенційності та вільної творчості є ноетичний, духовний вимір, який надбудовується над психологічним. У трансцендентному ставленні до плину буденного життя і проявляється особистісна зрілість як вираз потенціалу.... moreСеред джерел людської потенційності та вільної творчості є ноетичний, духовний вимір, який надбудовується над психологічним. У  трансцендентному ставленні до плину буденного життя і проявляється особистісна зрілість як вираз потенціалу. Показано, яким чином усередині домагань стикаються цілком свідоме ціле покладання та не повністю усвідомлювані життєва перспектива та ресурси, що впливають на оцінку власних можливостей, запиту соціуму, гнучкості, здатності до компромісу.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tetiana  Tytarenko•  4  Personality Psychology, Event-Related Potentials, Social Maturity and Personality, Life Coaching; Coaching and Personal DevelopmentRecent EEG and ERP findings substance abusersSave to LibraryDownloadby Natalie Ceballos•  7  Alcohol Studies, EEG, Event-Related Potentials, MarijuanaElectrophysiological correlates of speech perception mechanisms and individual differences in second language attainmentIn an increasingly globalized world mastering a second language (L2) provides a clear advantage. However, after early childhood, not everyone can easily learn a foreign language. The present study explored whether the large variability... moreIn an increasingly globalized world mastering a second language (L2) provides a clear advantage. However, afterearly childhood, not everyone can easily learn a foreign language. The present study explored whether thelarge variability found in L2 attainment in the normal population, not diagnosed as learning disabled, is relatedto preattentive speech perception abilities. Using event-related potentials (ERPs) we examined the mismatchnegativity, P3a, and the late discriminative negativity (MMN-P3a-LDN) complex, which served as an indexfor preattentive foreign phonological contrast discrimination abilities. Our results show that, compared to unsuccessfulL2 learners, successful L2 learners had shorter latencies of the MMN and P3a components and higher amplitudesof the LDN component. These results suggest that unsuccessful L2 learners have a deficient speech perceptionmechanism.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hilla  Jakoby•  8  Speech perception, Individual Differences, P300, Event-Related PotentialsNextLast »Related TopicsFunctional ConnectivityFollowFollowingStudent LearningFollowFollowingPaediatricsFollowFollowingAffective ComputingFollowFollowingPsychophysiologyFollowFollowingEEG Signal AnalysisFollowFollowingNeuroscienceFollowFollowingHuman EnhancementFollowFollowingHuman MemoryFollowFollowingCognitive NeuroscienceFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023