Research – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
ResearchWe find ways to make Wikimedia better.Our goal is to make Wikimedia sites more useful for people seeking knowledge across the globe. Research helps us live up to our mission. We turn research questions into opportunities to empower new readers and contributors. We use research-backed insights to inform new technologies, products, and programs. We partner with researchers around the world to better understand knowledge making and sharing.
Building a positive community cultureHarassment is a pervasive issue on the internet—even on Wikipedia. We’re working to understand and combat harassment in Wikimedia projects and discussion spaces.
Improving sources and citationsVerifiable citations are critical to open knowledge projects like Wikipedia. We are building an open repository of sources to make it easier to manage citations.
Understanding reader behaviorEvery second 6,000 people visit Wikipedia. We want to know why. Our research aims to understand their motivations and needs so we can identify opportunities to improve.
Increasing editor diversityWikimedia is a global movement but participation has been easier for some users than others. We are partnering with communities to understand why. With everyone’s help we can increase editor diversity across our projects.
Helping new editorsLearning how to contribute to Wikimedia projects can be complex. We worked with new editors in South Korea and the Czech Republic to understand why they edit and how we could make it easier.
Protecting the open internetThe law should allow internet platforms to stay out of editorial decisions so that people can share and speak freely. We research how policies affect the way information is shared online.
Partners help us tackle challenging research projects.We work with researchers from institutions such as EPFL, Cornell University, Google Jigsaw, Stanford University, and the University of Minnesota.Meet our collaborators
59 million
articles across over 300 languages on Wikipedia
Tweet this
6,000
people visit Wikimedia sites every second
Tweet this
90+ million
pieces of media in Wikimedia Commons, and counting
Tweet this
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
 
 
Welcome to Wikipedia! Here’s what we’re doing to help you stick around
Research Wikipedia 
Someone signing up to edit a Wikipedia page for the first time may feel a bit like a visitor to a new planet—excited, to be sure, but wildly overwhelmed. Many new editors must wonder: Just how many millions of articles are in this vast online resource? And which of those millions of articles need that….
21 October 2019
By Dan Fost 
Read more
 
Who are the organizers that grow Wikimedia’s communities? New research on actors that bring energy to the Wikimedia movement
Community Research 
The face of Wikipedia’s volunteer community is often an editor—someone who maintains, edits, and writes facts in the vast online encyclopedia. But editors aren’t the only contributors to Wikipedia, WikiCommons, and the other Wikimedia projects: there are many other volunteers who contribute by organizing events and inspiring others to join our volunteer community. Their work,….
4 October 2019
By Alex Stinson and Lauren Miranda 
Read more
See our work in the wild
Wiki WorkshopThe annual research forum brings together researchers exploring all aspects of Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects.
Wikimedia Research ShowcaseWe publicly share research findings and developments on the third Wednesday of every month at 11:30 Pacific Time.
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
Photo credits
 
Shanghai lights
whiz-ka
CC BY 2.0
 
Wikimedia Summit 2019 – 294
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jason Krüger/Wikimedia Deutschland (Germany)
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia Conference 2018
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jason Krüger/Wikimedia Deutschland e.V.
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia Conference 2017 – 130
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jason Krüger for Wikimedia Deutschland e.V.
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
The Leeds Library interior 2
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Michael D Beckwith
CC BY 3.0
 
Wikimedia Conference 2018 – 291
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jason Krüger for Wikimedia Deutschland e.V.
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Engrossed in editing during Women in art editathon IMG 5858
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Sumita Roy Dutta
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Content Translation demo
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Runabhattacharjee
CC0 1.0
 
SarpSozdinler WeMissTurkey Poster
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Sarp Sözdinler
CC0 1.0
 
Art+Feminism edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.