Microsoft Accidentally Leaks Key to Windows Backdoor - Schneier on Security
141 captures
15 Aug 2016 - 24 May 2023
Oct
AUG
Nov
25
2016
2017
2018
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20170825142643/https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2016/08/microsoft_accid.html
Schneier on Security
Blog
Newsletter
Books
Essays
News
Talks
Academic
About Me
Search
Powered by DuckDuckGo
blog
essays
whole site 
Subscribe
Blog >
Microsoft Accidentally Leaks Key to Windows Backdoor
In a cautionary tale to those who favor government-mandated backdoors to security systems, Microsoft accidentally leaked the key protecting its UEFI Secure boot feature.
As we all know, the problems with backdoors are less the cryptography and more the systems surrounding the cryptography.
Tags: backdoors, cryptography, keys, leaks, Microsoft
Posted on August 15, 2016 at  6:27 AM
 • 
9 Comments
Comments
Steinar H. Gunderson • August 15, 2016  7:26 AM
They didn't really leak a key, though. It's more subtle, and it's possible that it doesn't affect x86. See Matthew Garrett's explanation at https://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/44223.html for more information.
ole man • August 15, 2016  9:24 AM
I can still remember a time when the ability to install any software on your very own computer wasn't considered to be a "bug" or a "vulnerability".
Aaah, those were the days...
Couldn'tPossiblyComment • August 15, 2016  9:30 AM
I nearly said that I see the spambots are getting smarter, but I think the above from Industrial computers is a legit reply & link ;) I'm so unused to the use of the URL form entry.
As an aside, the apparent original source at https://rol.im/securegoldenkeyboot/ is possibly the most annoying web page I've opened since I last found myself on Geocities. Recommend text only.
The link provided by Steinar does indeed highlight that this isn't quite a leak of a key, but it's not far off. More precisely, it's a leaked signed supplementary policy that pre-Anniversary ARM bootloaders will load as though it's a full policy, and said policy says 'ignore loader security'. So if I'm reading right, the security defect is that the older devices will load a policy without a match on the device ID, and then MS created dev policies that can be loaded without an ID that turn loader security off which got leaked.
Had a key been leaked, they really would have been screwed. Had the Anniversary Edition's new supplementary policies been invalid to older bootloaders, this would have been avoided. As the article finishes off 'Adding new features can break old assumptions, and your design needs to take that into account'.
I also recall there used to be devices that you had to to put into 'dev' mode in hardware before it would allow this sort of thing to be done. Shame that didn't persist.
Doesn't change the pertinence of the failure of backdoors to remain perfectly secret.
ianf • August 15, 2016  9:46 AM
@ MODERATOR :: this  
https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2006/03/mozilla_bug_cau.html#c6731401
and this: 
https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2016/08/microsoft_accid.html#c6731397
look like SPAM, 
smell like SPAM, 
they're SPAM
hawk • August 15, 2016 12:00 PM
"As we all know, the problems with backdoors are less the cryptography and more the systems surrounding the cryptography."
Cryptography does not exist apart from a system in which it is implemented. 
uh, Mike • August 15, 2016 12:28 PM
uSoft didn't put in a backdoor for the NSA, but it did put in a backdoor for developer convenience.
"You're not from the government, are you?  Okay, you can come in."
Chuck • August 15, 2016  6:49 PM
The links have information about the leak, but where do we actually get the data?
vas pup • August 16, 2016  8:48 AM
China has successfully launched the world's first quantum-enabled satellite, state media said.
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-37091833
“If it works, it will solve the central problem of encrypted communications - how to distribute keys without interception - promising hack-proof communications. The encrypted message itself can be transmitted normally after the key exchange”
"Quantum computing is largely seen as the next big thing in communications," says Marc Einstein, Director of the Information Communications Technology (ICT) practice of Frost and Sullivan, Japan, citing secure transmission of credit card data as a likely early application.”
MisterNo • August 20, 2016  2:54 PM
I'm with the ole man on this one.
Hated the idea from the get-go, but if you buy the right machine to install Linux, no big deal. It was a conspiracy to push away Linux from the OEM pre-built market. Don't tell me it was really some security thing.
The article said Windows Phone: since when does Nokia have this option? It is important to not "jailbreak" your main phone for development. You suck it up and buy a second phone you can jack with. The SD card is encrypted, albeit with a law enforcement backdoor. Is there any proof of hacking into live Windows phones? Really, all it takes is a CALEA order to watch someone's traffic, if the govt is what you are scared of. 
I think for people that don't use a Windows Phone, you should know that the Windows Phone server stuff is scary. If you BYOD, the admin can have total control over your device... and it's your phone! If Blackberry did one thing right, it was dual profiling. There's no BYOD in my life.
Windows RT: care. I don't. And Microsoft has vaguely picked up the ball on kiosk/thin client imaging. Custom imaging is a really arduous task and Assigned Access is not all that.
My opinion has always been analyze your physical security issue properly. Is it real? Paranoid about who? Law Enforcement? Did you pop up on the radar?
About the mobile paranoid business man issue:
I see the fragility in encrypted containers and TPM. You just stack problems. 
**If someone has your mobile device, you have other problems... mostly behavioral.
It's all sort of disingenuous given how easy it is to hack into a non-live system. Even Tim Cook has feds crawling in his cubicles now.
Subscribe to comments on this entry
Leave a comment
Name (required):
E-mail Address:
URL:
Fill in the blank: the name of this blog is Schneier on ___________ (required):
Comments:
Allowed HTML: <a href="URL"> • <em> <cite> <i> • <strong> <b> • <sub> <sup> • <ul> <ol> <li> • <blockquote> <pre>
← Friday Squid Blogging: Squid Not Killing New Zealand Sea Lions
Yet Another Government-Sponsored Malware →
Photo of Bruce Schneier by Per Ervland.
Schneier on Security is a personal website.  Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of IBM Resilient.
About Bruce Schneier
I've been writing about security issues on my blog since 2004, and in my monthly newsletter since 1998. I write books, articles, and academic papers. Currently, I'm the Chief Technology Officer of IBM Resilient, a fellow at Harvard's Berkman Center, and a board member of EFF.
Related Entries
Windows 10 Whole-Disk Encryption without Key Escrow
Defending Against Crypto Backdoors
Apple's Cloud Key Vault
Collision Attacks Against 64-Bit Block Ciphers
CIA Director John Brennan Pretends Foreign Cryptography Doesn't Exist
Featured Essays
The Value of Encryption
Data Is a Toxic Asset, So Why Not Throw It Out?
How the NSA Threatens National Security
Terrorists May Use Google Earth, But Fear Is No Reason to Ban It
In Praise of Security Theater
Refuse to be Terrorized
The Eternal Value of Privacy
Terrorists Don't Do Movie Plots
more essays
Blog Archives
Archives by Month
100 Latest Comments
Blog Tags
privacy
terrorism
surveillance
squid
academic papers
NSA
air travel
hacking
national security policy
cryptography
law enforcement
encryption
DHS
homeland security
economics of security
crime
Schneier news
malware
essays
TSA
computer security
laws
fraud
vulnerabilities
psychology of security
police
courts
cost-benefit analysis
cell phones
authentication
more tags
Latest Book
more books
Blog
Newsletter
Books
Essays
News
Talks
Academic
About Me