Muhammed Murat Gözübüyük | Qafqaz University - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Muhammed Murat GözübüyükQafqaz University,  English Language and Literature,  Graduate StudentEducation+127 Followers4 FollowingTotal Views ;FollowFollowingPapersLight a Penny Candle as a Reflection of World War II""
There are lots of novels that were written during and about World War II in the world. They a... more ""There are lots of novels that were written during and about World War II in the world. They are all from different perspectives from different countries. Some are about the war itself, some are about children in the war, some are soldiers. Some of them are Black Rain by Ibuse Masuji , Every Man Dies Alone by Hans Fallada , The English Patient by Michael Ondaatje , Without Seeing the Dawn by Stevan Javellana  and The Widow and Her Hero by Thomas Keneally . Light a Penny Candle is different and very attractive I’ve ever read about a war, actually women in war. It mentions two ladies mainly. The story begins from their childhood, goes on during childhood and some time during their adulthood. The novel reflects wars terrible effects on city life, families, and family relationships and especially on children. When I was reading it I thanked God that I didn’t live during a war.  Because of the war people have to send their children to far cities, some to another country as Elizabeth White is sent to Ireland. After the war they go back to their own countries but they are not sure of that if their families are alive or their families are not sure of that if their children are safe and sound.  The novel gives information about war time England and Ireland. Although they are close countries, they are very different from each other with the sides of living style, education, religion, raising children, thinking about the war etc. As some want to go to war beside England, some are completely disagree with this idea in Ireland. As the writer Maeve Binhcy spent a childhood during the war in Ireland, she narrates that times with a perfect creativity. Elizabeth is a quiet 10 year old girl evacuated in World War II to Ireland and spends several years with the large O'Connor family. She makes her best friend there, Aisling, who is the same age with her. She is struck by how different and relaxed the O'Connor family is compared to her own rather reserved parents.  The narrative takes us through the girls' growing up and growing closer. Although Elizabeth is returned to her parents in London at the age of 14, their strong friendship continues through letters and some meetings. The girls support each other through terrible times unfailingly. Elizabeth grows into an emotionally strong woman who is successful at teaching Art History and Aisling grows up to be a beautiful housewife after she gives in to the Irish pressure for her to be married. The book shows times when Elizabeth's life is on the up but Aisling’s is rubbish. At the end of the book, we see the ladies’ trying to have a happy life but still making mistakes - and this goes to an unexpected end.  Maeve Binchy explores what it means to be Irish in the twentieth century, the nature of family including marriage, abortions and affairs. She deals with religion and the grip it had on Irish families. Light a Penny Candle has some strong, feisty Irish women characters in the form of Aisling and her kindly and generous mother Eileen. Irish men are portrayed to be men of few words and alcohol plays an important part in life for many of them - especially Aisling's husband who turns out to be a drunk. Alcoholism also is explored through an English character too when Elizabeth's husband is disappointed his being overlooked for promotion. English family life is observed through a microscope and we see the torturously stilted experience that Elizabeth has with her own mother and father. This is juxtaposed with the altogether more lively life of the Irish O'Connell family. Elizabeth's mother (Violet) is shown to be a woman who has been held back by the social restrictions of the time but breaks out from this in the war (whilst Elizabeth is away). She eventually has an affair and leaves to live with the gregarious 'Harry' (a dreadful thing to do then). Unfortunately, her mother succumbs to mental illness and commits suicide in a hospital. Another interesting character is Johnny Stone, a man that both friends have as a lover (at different times). He is a commitmentphobe who is selfish and devilishly attractive at the same time. Even though he is (relatively) honest about his need to feel free and unmarried with the women - this still causes them great emotional pain.I really enjoyed the book. I especially enjoyed the honest and brave depiction of characters that could be considered as stereotypes. It feels like Maeve Binchy has clearly wanted to write what is her genuine experience of Irish and English people. You can't fault it - I can locate characters that fit into those moulds just from a quick think about the people I know in my life. I particularly liked the depiction of Elizabeth's English father (George) who is obsessed with trying hard at work, who will not talk about feelings, who cannot carry out simple domestic tasks and who is intrinsically anti-social. These are traits that drive both his wife and daughter to distraction. We see George eventually learning to do a few things for himself, make a few friends and even express a feeling or two towards the end of the novel! This is all under the careful tutorage of his daughter, Elizabeth.  Also I enjoyed the depiction of trust in female friendships - which outlasts all other relationships. Now I wonder what happened to the two young women as they went through their thirties, forties and beyond."" The thesis is below. I hope it will be helpful for those who needs kind of these things.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Light a Penny Candle as a Reflection of World War II""
There are lots of novels that were written during and about World War II in the world. They a... more ""There are lots of novels that were written during and about World War II in the world. They are all from different perspectives from different countries. Some are about the war itself, some are about children in the war, some are soldiers. Some of them are Black Rain by Ibuse Masuji , Every Man Dies Alone by Hans Fallada , The English Patient by Michael Ondaatje , Without Seeing the Dawn by Stevan Javellana  and The Widow and Her Hero by Thomas Keneally . Light a Penny Candle is different and very attractive I’ve ever read about a war, actually women in war. It mentions two ladies mainly. The story begins from their childhood, goes on during childhood and some time during their adulthood. The novel reflects wars terrible effects on city life, families, and family relationships and especially on children. When I was reading it I thanked God that I didn’t live during a war.  Because of the war people have to send their children to far cities, some to another country as Elizabeth White is sent to Ireland. After the war they go back to their own countries but they are not sure of that if their families are alive or their families are not sure of that if their children are safe and sound.  The novel gives information about war time England and Ireland. Although they are close countries, they are very different from each other with the sides of living style, education, religion, raising children, thinking about the war etc. As some want to go to war beside England, some are completely disagree with this idea in Ireland. As the writer Maeve Binhcy spent a childhood during the war in Ireland, she narrates that times with a perfect creativity. Elizabeth is a quiet 10 year old girl evacuated in World War II to Ireland and spends several years with the large O'Connor family. She makes her best friend there, Aisling, who is the same age with her. She is struck by how different and relaxed the O'Connor family is compared to her own rather reserved parents.  The narrative takes us through the girls' growing up and growing closer. Although Elizabeth is returned to her parents in London at the age of 14, their strong friendship continues through letters and some meetings. The girls support each other through terrible times unfailingly. Elizabeth grows into an emotionally strong woman who is successful at teaching Art History and Aisling grows up to be a beautiful housewife after she gives in to the Irish pressure for her to be married. The book shows times when Elizabeth's life is on the up but Aisling’s is rubbish. At the end of the book, we see the ladies’ trying to have a happy life but still making mistakes - and this goes to an unexpected end.  Maeve Binchy explores what it means to be Irish in the twentieth century, the nature of family including marriage, abortions and affairs. She deals with religion and the grip it had on Irish families. Light a Penny Candle has some strong, feisty Irish women characters in the form of Aisling and her kindly and generous mother Eileen. Irish men are portrayed to be men of few words and alcohol plays an important part in life for many of them - especially Aisling's husband who turns out to be a drunk. Alcoholism also is explored through an English character too when Elizabeth's husband is disappointed his being overlooked for promotion. English family life is observed through a microscope and we see the torturously stilted experience that Elizabeth has with her own mother and father. This is juxtaposed with the altogether more lively life of the Irish O'Connell family. Elizabeth's mother (Violet) is shown to be a woman who has been held back by the social restrictions of the time but breaks out from this in the war (whilst Elizabeth is away). She eventually has an affair and leaves to live with the gregarious 'Harry' (a dreadful thing to do then). Unfortunately, her mother succumbs to mental illness and commits suicide in a hospital. Another interesting character is Johnny Stone, a man that both friends have as a lover (at different times). He is a commitmentphobe who is selfish and devilishly attractive at the same time. Even though he is (relatively) honest about his need to feel free and unmarried with the women - this still causes them great emotional pain.I really enjoyed the book. I especially enjoyed the honest and brave depiction of characters that could be considered as stereotypes. It feels like Maeve Binchy has clearly wanted to write what is her genuine experience of Irish and English people. You can't fault it - I can locate characters that fit into those moulds just from a quick think about the people I know in my life. I particularly liked the depiction of Elizabeth's English father (George) who is obsessed with trying hard at work, who will not talk about feelings, who cannot carry out simple domestic tasks and who is intrinsically anti-social. These are traits that drive both his wife and daughter to distraction. We see George eventually learning to do a few things for himself, make a few friends and even express a feeling or two towards the end of the novel! This is all under the careful tutorage of his daughter, Elizabeth.  Also I enjoyed the depiction of trust in female friendships - which outlasts all other relationships. Now I wonder what happened to the two young women as they went through their thirties, forties and beyond."" The thesis is below. I hope it will be helpful for those who needs kind of these things.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023