     A new kind of travel guide or more of the same? Wikivoyage and Cambodia
 |  Emerald Insight
                 
Books and journals
Case studies
Expert Briefings
Open Access
               Publish with us
               
Advanced search
To read this content please select one of the options below:
Access and purchase options
Purchase options
Rent this content from DeepDyve
Rent from DeepDyve
Other access
You may be able to access this content by logging in via your Emerald profile.
Login
If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team.
Contact us
Please note you do not have access to teaching notes
Access and purchase options
Purchase options
Other access
You may be able to access teaching notes by logging in via your Emerald profile.
Login
If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team.
Contact us
A new kind of travel guide or more of the same? Wikivoyage and Cambodia
 Brendan Luyt 
            (Wee Kim Wee School of Communication and Information, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore)
        
Online Information Review
ISSN:
                    1468-4527
Article publication date: 3 December 2020
Issue publication date: 15 March 2021
Downloads
                127
            
Abstract
Purpose
Given Wikipedia’s size and importance to the world’s information infrastructure, it can be forgotten that there exists under the same Wikimedia Foundation umbrella, a number of other volunteer wikis producing information on a variety of topics and subjects. Little research has been conducted on these offshoots. In this article I examine one of the earliest of these efforts, Wikivoyage, a free wiki-based travel guidebook.
Design/methodology/approach
I examine the content of Wikivoyage’s articles on the temples of Angkor, Siem Reap (the tourist gateway to the temples), the introductory page for the country of Cambodia as a whole and a sample of regional Cambodian entries. Textual and discourse analysis is the foundation of this work.
Findings
The findings suggest that although Wikivoyage is not currently an exemplar of alternative tourism discourses, it certainly has potential. But that potential can only be realized if those interested in contributing to the site alternative perspectives and discourses take up the task in a sensitive manner and in accordance with the developing editing culture.
Originality/value
While conceding that Wikivoyage is currently unlikely to monopolize the guidebook market anytime soon, it is still important to study this social phenomenon both for its own intrinsic interest and to assess its potential for a more enlightened and transformative tourism.
Peer review
The peer review history for this article is available at: https://publons.com/publon/10.1108/OIR-03-2020-0104
Keywords
 Cambodia
 Wikipedia
 Alternative tourism
 Travel guides
 Wikivoyage
Citation
Luyt, B. (2021), "A new kind of travel guide or more of the same? Wikivoyage and Cambodia", Online Information Review, Vol. 45 No. 2, pp. 356-371. https://doi.org/10.1108/OIR-03-2020-0104
Publisher:
        Emerald Publishing Limited
        Copyright © 2020, Emerald Publishing Limited
Related articles
Support & Feedback 
      Manage cookies
    
We’re listening — tell us what you think
Something didn’t work…
Report bugs here
All feedback is valuable
Please share your general feedback
Join us on our journey
Platform update page
Visit emeraldpublishing.com/platformupdate to discover the latest news and updates
Questions & More Information
Answers to the most commonly asked questions here
© 2023 Emerald Publishing Limited
Services
Authors
Editors
Librarians
Researchers
Reviewers
About
About Emerald
Working for Emerald
Contact us
Publication sitemap
Policies and information
Privacy notice
Site policies
Modern Slavery Act
Chair of Trustees governance statement
COVID-19 policy
Accessibility
×