Internal Marketing Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Internal Marketing6,545 FollowersRecent papers in Internal MarketingTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleA Stakeholder Analysis of Barrick Gold and Challenges of Internal MarketingThis two part paper discusses some of the stakeholder issues that affect Barrick Gold Corporation. It also provides a discussion on some of the internal marketing issues that the mining giant needs to be aware with a case study of its... moreThis two part paper discusses some of the stakeholder issues that affect Barrick Gold Corporation. It also provides a discussion on some of the internal marketing issues that the mining giant needs to be aware with a case study of its Lumwana outfit.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mwelwa K Chibesakunda•  3  Marketing Research, Stakeholder Relationships & Issues Management, Internal MarketingInternal communication: Definition, parameters, and the futureSave to LibraryDownloadby K Sriramesh•  10  Corporate Communication, Public Relations, Communication Management, Strategic CommunicationMarketing Interno e Comunicação - O impacto da utilização de novas tecnologias nas PME'sSave to LibraryDownloadby Jorge Remondes•Internal MarketingPorque é que o Marketing é Sexy e Inteligente?! (co-autor)Save to LibraryDownloadby Jorge Remondes•  2  Internal Communication, Internal MarketingInsights into the Indian call centre industry: can internal marketing help tackle high employee turnover?Purpose–Increasing turnover of frontline staff in call centres is detrimental to the delivery of quality service to customers. This paper aims to present the context for the rapid growth of the business process outsourcing (BPO) sector in... morePurpose–Increasing turnover of frontline staff in call centres is detrimental to the delivery of quality service to customers. This paper aims to present the context for the rapid growth of the business process outsourcing (BPO) sector in India, and to address a critical issue faced by call centre organisations in this sector–the high employee turnover. Design/methodology/approach–Following a triangulation approach, two separate empirical investigations are conducted to examine various aspects of high labour turnover rates in the call centre ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Arup Varma•  17  Business, Marketing, Human Resource Management, International MarketingROLE OF IN INTERNAL MARKETING IN ATTRACTING POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS: MODERATING INFLUENCE OF SOCIAL MEDIATechnology has brought an immense amount of strategies, tools and approaches to marketing, all of which worked for the sake of satisfying customers and win potential clients. Internal marketing is one of those approaches which mainly look... moreTechnology has brought an immense amount of strategies, tools and approaches to marketing, all of which worked for the sake of satisfying customers and win potential clients. Internal marketing is one of those approaches which mainly look at employees as customers who will draw potential customers to organization. Current study aimed at examining the influence of internal marketing on attracting potential customers through the moderating influence of social media. Quantitative approach was adopted and (445) questionnaires were distributed on employees within Kuwait telecommunications organizations. Results of study accepted the hypothesized notion and agreed that social media moderate the relationship between internal marketing and attracting potential customers. Also, results indicated that among the chosen set of internal marketing dimensions (communication) was the most influential as it helped in increasing the level of understanding and support between management, leadership and employees which led to their ability to attract more customers launching from their own positive attitudes towards products of organization. Study recommended intensifying training courses for leaders in order to maximize their impact on team management and direct the internal marketing mechanism in a beneficial way.Save to LibraryDownloadby IAEME Publication•  9  Employee Satisfaction, Work Environment, Internal Marketing, Potential CustomersApplication of the Internal Marketing Concept in the Croatian Financial SectorAlthough the internal marketing concept emerged in the 1970s from service marketing, it has not been widely accepted in the business environment. One of the reasons lies in the fact that the concept and the components had not been... moreAlthough the internal marketing concept emerged in the 1970s from service marketing, it has not been widely accepted in the business environment. One of the reasons lies in the fact that the concept and the components had not been precisely defined. The purpose of this paper is to assess the extent of the acceptance of the internal marketing philosophy in the Croatian financial sector and to identify the components of internal marketing. The conducted research highlights that the acceptance of the concept in the Croatian financial sector is mediocre. This confirms the insufficient application of the concept in practice. The study findings also suggest that internal marketing is perceived through three dimensions, e.g. development and communication to employees, rewarding and training and organization’s vision. These findings underline the issue that managers have to take into consideration when designing internal marketing programs, in order to achieve IM objectives. Furthermore, th...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sanja Dolenec•Internal MarketingLeadership marketing: an exploratory studySave to LibraryDownloadby Geoff Lancaster•  4  Marketing, Strategic Marketing, Corporate Strategy, Internal MarketingInternal Marketing Approach in Human Resources Management: A Case Study on a State EstablishmentThe main aim of public institutions' activities is to provide goods/services which will meet effectively and efficiently the needs and desires of public. To achieve the attitude called customer oriented manner, it is necessary to motivate... moreThe main aim of public institutions' activities is to provide goods/services which will meet effectively and efficiently the needs and desires of public. To achieve the attitude called customer oriented manner, it is necessary to motivate the employees (internal customer) in this direction and to promote them to have this attitude. In marketing this attitude overlaps with internal marketing approach. According to this approach, public institutions regard their employees as customers called internal customers. The way of meeting external needs, desires and expectations of customers is to make adoption of satisfying the internal customers' needs, wants, requirements and expectations. The philosophy called internal marketing addresses this approach. All communications, especially the behaviors of managers against employees, established between managers and employees which is one of the factors of this comprehension (physical conditions, organizational image, career possibilities, rewarding system, the way of doing work, wage and social rights) has a significant effect on internal customers' motivation and job satisfaction. In this study, within the framework of internal marketing concept, manager's behavior which is one of the factors of internal communication is evaluated to determine the effects of managers' behaviors on motivation levels of employees.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ahmet  Güven•  5  Satisfaction, Motivation, Internal Customer, Internal MarketingA marketingszemlélet és a HR találkozása - A munkáltatói márkaépítés értelmezése, irodalma és kutatási irányaiJelen cikk célja egy, a menedzsment és marketing elmélete és gyakorlata terén viszonylag fiatal, az elméleti irodalomban Ambler és Barrow által az 1990-es években megalkotott, és először 1996-ban publikált employer brand, illetve employer... moreJelen cikk célja egy, a menedzsment és marketing elmélete és gyakorlata terén viszonylag fiatal, az elméleti irodalomban Ambler és Barrow által az 1990-es években megalkotott, és először 1996-ban publikált employer brand, illetve employer branding témakörének bemutatása és feldolgozása, valamint lehetséges kutatási irányok meghatározása. A szerzők bemutatják azokat a társadalmi és gazdasági tényezőket, amelyek közvetve vagy közvetlenül hatottak a tradicionális marketing és HR-funkciók elkülönültségének megszűnésére, és szükségessé tették a marketingszemlélet begyűrűzését a HR területére is. Elemzik, hogy miként kapcsolható össze és válik elválaszthatatlanná a vállalat belső és külső környezete, valamint a cégről kialakult kép. Vizsgálódásuk középpontjába a munkáltatói márka jelenségének és a munkáltatói márkaépítés folyamatának, eszköztárának és kivitelezésének különböző megközelítéseit helyezik. Végül különböző nemzetközi és magyar kutatásokat mutatnak be és hasonlítanak össze, a k...Save to LibraryDownloadby Attila Kajos•  20  Marketing, Human Resource Development, Corporate Communication, Employee MotivationThe impact of internal brand management on employee job satisfaction, brand commitment and intention to stayPurpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine the extent to which internal brand management (IBM), a subset of internal marketing, impacts on the three dimensions of job satisfaction ( JS), brand commitment (BC) and intention to stay... morePurpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine the extent to which internal brand management (IBM), a subset of internal marketing, impacts on the three dimensions of job satisfaction ( JS), brand commitment (BC) and intention to stay (IS). Design/methodology/approach – A financial services company in Southern Africa was selected using convenience sampling. Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) was used to identify the dimensions of IBM, BC, JS and IS. Partial least squares path modeling was used to test the model and the hypotheses. The Mann-Whitney test was used to identify any statistically significant differences between frontline staff and management/support staff. Findings – The EFA of the components of IBM did not yield the three expected dimensions. For service staff, IBM significantly contributes to JS, BC and IS. Internal brand communication is the most important contributor to IBM. Research limitations/implications – In common with others, this research uses a limited samp...Save to LibraryDownloadby Michael Bendixen•  4  Marketing, Job Satisfaction, Internal Marketing, Bank marketingHOW DO INTERNAL MARKETING ACTIVITIES AFFECT ORGANIZATIONAL COMMITMENT? THE MEDIATING ROLE OF JOB SATISFACTION İÇSEL PAZARLAMA FAALİYETLERİ ÖRGÜTSEL BAĞLILIĞI NASIL ETKİLER? İŞ TATMİNİNİN ARACILIK ROLÜ Ö zIn this study the mediating role of job satisfaction over the impacts of organizations' internal marketing acitivities on employees' organizational commitment is examined. The sample of the study consists of 356 employees from several... moreIn this study the mediating role of job satisfaction over the impacts of organizations' internal marketing acitivities on employees' organizational commitment is examined. The sample of the study consists of 356 employees from several sectors. Mediation tests were carried out with traditional and modern methods to the data obtained through electronic survey method from these employees. Both analysis methods showed that job satisfaction has a partial mediating role in the relationship of internal marketing and employees' organizational commitment. Depending on these findings, it is suggested that organizations' internal marketing activities are important for increasing organizational commitment of employees. However, this effect can be increased with developing job satisfaction through internal marketing acitivities. Bu çalışmada örgütlerin içsel pazarlama faaliyetlerinin çalışanların örgütsel bağlılıkları üzerine etkisinde iş tatmini tutumlarının aracılık rolü incelenmiştir. Araştırmanın örneklemini farklı sektörlerde çalışan toplam 356 çalışan oluşturmuştur. Söz konusu çalışanlardan elektronik anket yöntemi ile elde edilen verilerle geleneksel ve modern yöntemlerle aracılık testleri yapılmıştır. Yapılan analizler neticesinde her iki yöntemde de örgütlerin içsel pazarlama faaliyetleri ile çalışanların örgütsel bağlılıkları etkileşiminde iş tatmininin kısmi bir aracılık etkisi olduğu tespit edilmiştir. Bu bulgulara göre örgütlerin içsel pazarlama faaliyetlerinin çalışanların örgütsel bağlılıklarını artırmak için önemli olduğu, ancak örgütsel bağlılık üzerindeki etkinin bir kısmının çalışanların iş tatmini tutumlarının içsel pazarlama faaliyetleriyle olumlu yönde geliştirilerek artırılabileceği değerlendirilmiştir.Save to LibraryDownloadby Metin  OCAK and +1Yrd. Doç. Dr. Aslıhan Yavuzalp Marangoz•  3  Organizational Commitment, Job Satisfaction, Internal MarketingRelationship between Internal Marketing and Service Quality with Customers' SatisfactionSave to LibraryDownloadby John Ritchie•  7  Entrepreneurship, Marketing, Service Quality, Marketing ResearchThe impact of internal marketing on commercial banks' market orientationSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad awwad•  12  Organizational Behavior, Marketing, Organizational Commitment, Organizational Citizenship BehaviorEXAMINING THE RELEVANCE OF INTERNAL MARKETING TO CUSTOMER SATISFACTION IN FAST FOOD INDUSTRYABSTRACT According to Piercy and Morgan (1991) external customer satisfaction cannot be achieved without the fundamental contribution of the customer-contact employees who provide the service. The front-line employees of the restaurant... moreABSTRACTAccording to Piercy and Morgan (1991) external customer satisfaction cannot be achieved without the fundamental contribution of the customer-contact employees who provide the service. The front-line employees of the restaurant interact with the majority of customers and generally handle a wide range of fast food transactions. Because of the importance of the service provided, Restaurants firms should support customer-contact employees in order to acquire communicative sale skills and make them feel comfortable and satisfied with their job. To save time and cost, fifty (50) questionnaires were designed for the Management, Staff and Customers of Linda Dor Restaurants. Ten (10) questionnaires were administered to the management, fifteen (15) to the staff and twenty-five (25) to the customers. Purposive sampling technique with interview were used to gather data from the management, simple random sampling for staff and convenience sampling technique for customers.The above ascertainment emerged the relevance of Internal Marketing to customer satisfaction in the fast food industry. According to the Berry and Parasuraman (1991) each business should develop Internal Marketing programmes that would focus on the employees in similar to those for its customers in order to provide high quality services to its customers continuously. Consequently, external customer satisfaction cannot be achieved without the fundamental contribution of the employees who provide the service. Therefore managers who are concernedwith monitoring and improving external customer satisfaction, need to develop employees’ competence in order to act as “part-time” marketers and complaint handler for the organisation. The key for employees’ competence is Internal Marketing, Gummesson (1987) where head office is highly involved in strategic and planning internal marketing whereas senior and middle level managers have more tactic role.Save to LibraryDownloadby Michael Kwame•  4  Service Quality, Internal Marketing, Fast Food Industry, Involvement of EmployeesThe Rise of MarketingMarketing and sales have existed in some form for centuries, but it was in the twentieth century that modern marketing management emerged as a distinct field of study and profession. This chapter narrates that development with reference... moreMarketing and sales have existed in some form for centuries, but it was in the twentieth century that modern marketing management emerged as a distinct field of study and profession. This chapter narrates that development with reference to marketing practice, academic research, and education, to show how ideas about the scope of marketing broadened, particularly during the decades after World War II. In particular, this chapter examines the ideas from services and relationship marketing that first emerged during and before the 1980s.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alex Gillett and +1Kevin  Tennent•  20  Marketing, Education, Operations Management, Higher EducationThe notion of internal market orientation and employee job satisfaction: some preliminary evidenceSave to LibraryDownloadby Spiros Gounaris•Internal MarketingHospitality marketing researchSave to LibraryDownloadby John  Bowen•  8  Marketing, Hospitality Management, Consumer Behavior, TourismInternal marketing impact on business performance in a retail context... definition of the IM concept and relevant valid measures (Varey, 1995; Rafiq and Ahmed, 1993; Ahmed and Rafiq, 1995; Rafiq and Ahmed ... productivity (Cronin and Skinner, 1984; Ingene, 1982, 1984; Dobson, 2005; Reynolds et al., 2005)... more... definition of the IM concept and relevant valid measures (Varey, 1995; Rafiq and Ahmed, 1993; Ahmed and Rafiq, 1995; Rafiq and Ahmed ... productivity (Cronin and Skinner, 1984; Ingene, 1982, 1984; Dobson, 2005; Reynolds et al., 2005) and stock turn (Dawson and Shaw, 1989 ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Prokopis  Theodoridis•  8  Marketing, International Marketing, Customer Orientation, RetailingThe Effect of Internal Marketing on the Performance of Employee and the Mediating Role of Organizational CommitmentSave to LibraryDownloadby mustafa seker•  5  Performance Studies, Organizational Commitment, Internal Marketing, A test of the extended intergroup contact hypothesis: The mediating role of intergroup anxiety, perceived ingroup and outgroup norms, and inclusion of the outgroup in the self.صناعة العلامة التجارية للمورد البشري
= من المتطلبات إلى تحقيق الميزة التنافسية للمنظمات =تسعى المنظمات اليوم إلى الارتقاء بأدائها التسويقي من أجل تحقيق ميزة تنافسية يصعب نقلها وتقليدها أو حتى مجاراتها؛ ولأجل ذلك ركزت القيادة الإدارية للمنظمة على موردها البشري بغية صناعة ما يعرف حاليا بـ"العلامة التجارية البشرية" التي تسوّق ما... moreتسعى المنظمات اليوم إلى الارتقاء بأدائها التسويقي من أجل تحقيق ميزة تنافسية يصعب نقلها وتقليدها أو حتى مجاراتها؛ ولأجل ذلك ركزت القيادة الإدارية للمنظمة على موردها البشري بغية صناعة ما يعرف حاليا بـ"العلامة التجارية البشرية" التي تسوّق ما تقدمه المنظمة من منتجات و/أو خدمات لأصحاب المصالح فيها بدءًا بالعملاء والزبائن؛ حتى بات من الممكن معرفة أي مورد بشري لمنظمة رائدة بمجرد رؤيته أو فحص سماته بنظرة عابرة. وبالرغم من ذلك إلا أن العديد من المنظمات لاتزال تجد صعوبة في مجاراة نظيراتها الرائدة وصناعة علامتها التجارية البشرية لعدة أسباب، من بينها التداخل المفاهيمي الذي يحيط بكل من مفهوم: التسويق البشري، التسويق التوظيفي، التسويق الداخلي.. وكذا مفهوم العلامة التجارية للمورد البشري؛ وهو ما جاءت دراستنا الحالية لأجل البحث فيه بغية تقريب البنية السليمة لمفهوم كل منها، وكذا تبيان المدخل التنظيري المناسب لها. بالإضافة إلى تقديم الخطوات المناسبة لكيفية صناعة علامة تجارية بشرية تساهم في تحقيق الميزة التنافسية المبتغاة للمنظمة من خلال عرض نموذج "شركة غوغل" العالمي.Abstract:Organizations today strive to improve their marketing performance to achieve a competitive advantage that is not easy to transfer, replicate or even pursue. For this reason, the organization's management has focused on its human resource to produce what is now known as the "human brand" that markets the products and / or services for stakeholders like clients and customers; to the extent that is possible now to identify any human resource of any leading organization once it is simply viewed or its characteristics are examined in a glance. In spite of this, many organizations still find it difficult to keep pace with their leading counterparts/ competitors and their human brands for several reasons, including the conceptual overlap surrounding the following concepts; of human marketing, employment marketing, internal marketing, as well as the brand concept of the human resource. The current study researches to bring together the sound structure of each concept, to indicate the appropriate theoretical input, as well as to provide appropriate steps for how to create a human brand that contributes to the desired competitive advantage of the organization by presenting the global Google model.Save to LibraryDownloadby فاتن باشا•  13  Internal Marketing, Employment marketing, التسويق Marketing, التسويقRESEARCH ON INTERNAL MARKETING AND MOTIVATION: EMPLOYEE EVALUTION OF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES IN BANKING SECTORParticipation in training and development programs is quite important to employees as being internal customers for the increase of employee mativation in services sector. In this context, this study examines the employee evalutionof... moreParticipation in training and development programs is quite important to employees as being internal customers for the increase of employee mativation in services sector. In this context, this study examines the employee evalutionof training and development programs in banking sectorwith the blend of secondary and primary data which was collected through an e-mail survey applied to the employees working in the branch of a Turkish bank in Kayseri, Turkey. Statistical analyses of data indicate that employee motivation differs in terms of employee participation in any training and development programs and the working experience in the sector. The study concludes that employee participation in training and development programs is important in enhancing employee motivation in the services sector. The results are in line with the current literature.Keywords: Internal Marketing; Training and Development Programs; Employee's Motivation.JEL Classification: M310Save to LibraryDownloadby Onur  Çelik•  3  Motivation (Psychology), Motivation, Internal MarketingA marketingszemlélet és a HR találkozása - A munkáltatói márkaépítés értelmezése, irodalma és kutatási irányaiThe main goal of this article is to introduce and process employer brand and employer branding, a relatively young phenomenon at the frontiers of management and marketing. The concept was constituted by Ambler and Barrow in 1990 and first... moreThe main goal of this article is to introduce and process employer brand and employer branding, a relatively young phenomenon at the frontiers of management and marketing. The concept was constituted by Ambler and Barrow in 1990 and first introduced to the theoretical literature by the same authors in 1996. At first the authors mention those social and economic factors which directly or indirectly led to the termination of the traditionally detached functions of marketing and HR and made it possible for the marketing approach to leak into HR management. It is essential that a firm's internal image and brand is inseparable from its external image, and those two are closely related. Therefore building both strong internal and external employer brand is crucial. To understand the role of brands in human relations they show the way of getting from product- and corporate branding to employer brand. After reviewing its theoretical framework, the authors compare the different approaches of employer bran and branding. At the end they give a comprehensive summary of international and Hungarian researches from different aspects. Jelen cikk célja egy, a menedzsment és marketing elmélete és gyakorlata terén viszonylag fiatal, az elméleti irodalomban Ambler és Barrow által az 1990-es években megalkotott, és először 1996-ban publikált employer brand, illetve employer branding témakörének bemutatása és feldolgozása, valamint lehetséges kutatási irányok meghatározása. A szerzők bemutatják azokat a társadalmi és gazdasági tényezőket, melyek közvetve vagy közvetlenül hatottak a tradicionális marketing és HR-funkciók elkülönültségének megszűnésére, és szükségessé tették a marketingszemlélet begyűrűzését a HR területére is. Elemzik, hogy miként kapcsolható össze és válik elválaszthatatlanná a vállalat belső és külső környezete, valamint a cégrőlkialakult kép. Vizsgálódásuk középpontjába a munkáltatói márka jelenségének és a munkáltatói márkaépítés folyamatának, eszköztárának és kivitelezésének különböző megközelítéseit helyezik. Végül különböző nemzetközi és magyar kutatásokat mutatnak be és hasonlítanak össze, a kutatások alanyai, módszertana, valamint a vizsgálat elméleti megközelítése alapján.Save to LibraryDownloadby Attila Kajos and +1Brigitta Bálint•  20  Marketing, Human Resource Development, Corporate Communication, Employee MotivationMarketing Interno: Uma Abordagem TeóricaSave to LibraryDownloadby Mário Franco•Internal MarketingAssessing impact of internal marketing on business performance: Doctoral dissertation summaryObjectives of the dissertation: 1. To understand how DMOs (Destination Management Organization) internally market themselves. 2. To develop and standardize the measures to evaluate internal marketing in case of destinations. 3. To analyse... moreObjectives of the dissertation:1. To understand how DMOs (Destination Management Organization) internally market themselves.2. To develop and standardize the measures to evaluate internal marketing in case of destinations.3. To analyse and understand the relationship between internal marketing and destination performance.4. To recommend to destination managers and planners ways and means to improve destination performance (for internalcustomers).Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Rahul Pratap Singh Kaurav•  3  Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, India, Internal MarketingInternal marketing: a review and future research agenda Internal marketing: a review and future research agendaInternal marketing is a method of cultivating high-level employee performance. However, the concept is marred with confusion due to the wide range of definitions and consequent implementation challenges. We reviewed the literature on... moreInternal marketing is a method of cultivating high-level employee performance. However, the concept is marred with confusion due to the wide range of definitions and consequent implementation challenges. We reviewed the literature on internal marketing published between 1980 and 2020, using a theory, context and method framework. We found that scholars have not paid attention to the utilization of an established framework for construct operationalization. We advocate for the application of self-determination theory as a framework for operationalizing internal marketing. In addition, based on the identified research gaps, we propose several ideas for future research directions. ARTICLE HISTORYSave to LibraryDownloadby Nazlida Muhamad and +1Fatima Saman Qaisar•Internal MarketingSchmit et al. 2021. Internal branding. In search of a new paradigm.PDFInternal Branding progressively expand. As a result, some of the field’s traditional assumptions are being challenged, leading to the need for a paradigm shift in Internal Branding. Internal Branding has traditionally focused on how to... moreInternal Branding progressively expand. As a result, some of the field’s traditional assumptions are being challenged, leading to the need for a paradigm shift in Internal Branding. Internal Branding has traditionally focused on how to align employees’ communications and behaviours with the intended brand identity. Many scholarly articles have used this top-down managerial approach (Merrilees, 2016), to explore the ways in which consumers’ brand experience across different touchpoints is aligned with an intended brand identity. From this perspective, internal stakeholders’ role in brand building is often seen as a means to an end: senior management define the brand identity that is supposed to be implemented and employees are expected to enact the relevant behaviours. Today, consumers and employees feel empowered (Gill-Simmen et al., 2018) and want to co-create brands (Ind et al., 2013) and their meaning (Da Silveira et al., 2013). This has given rise to the “co-creative school” of brand management (Schmidt and Redler, 2018), which has fundamentally changed the way researchers understand and research the brand management academic field. new approach to Internal Branding is needed. The search for the button that needs to be pushed in order to control the behaviour of employees can be declared over. On the contrary, managers need to find ways to support the development of a brandoriented corporate culture that can provide guidance to employees, while allowing them to also enjoy high degrees of freedom. On one side, this is about ensuring that there is a core common understanding of what the brand stands for that can inspire employee behaviour. This is why organizations should move from a rigidly predefined brand identity system to a more fluid perspective, grounded in a brand purpose and a set of guiding principles (Iglesias and Ind, 2020). On the other, this is about empowering employees to use their own judgement to decide how to behave in any specific situation. Whenever there is a common shared brand purpose and a set of guiding principles, which are lived by the brand employees and reflected in a supportive culture, a new approach to internal branding can be promoted which is grounded in trust, freedom and empowerment. This approach relies on trusting and engaging employees with the co-creation of the strategic priorities of the organization (Iglesias and Ind, 2020) and empowering them to reinterpret the brand principles and to enrich and develop the brand identity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oriol Iglesias•  6  Brand Management, Branding, Internal Marketing, Brand, Branding, Co-CreationВнутрішній маркетинг підприємства: теорія, методика, практикаУ науковій монографії викладено теоретичні засади, науково-методичні положення і практичні рекомендації щодо формування і впровадження концепції внутрішнього маркетингу підприємства. Досліджено передумови її становлення у взаємозв’язку і... moreУ науковій монографії викладено теоретичні засади, науково-методичні положення і практичні рекомендації щодо формування і впровадження концепції внутрішнього маркетингу підприємства. Досліджено передумови її становлення у взаємозв’язку і взаємозалежності із розвитком концепцій маркетингового управління підприємствами. Висвітлено еволюцію і специфіку застосування інструментарію внутрішнього маркетингу підприємства у напрямку підвищення рівня клієнт-орієнтованості бізнесу і досягнення стратегічних цілей його функціонування. Зосереджено увагу на дослідницькій та аналітичній функціях внутрішнього маркетингу підприємства. Для широкого кола науковців, викладачів, аспірантів, що досліджують питання розвитку маркетингового управління підприємствами. Для студентів вищих навчальних закладів за фаховим спрямуванням підготовки з маркетингу, а також для керівників і фахівців, які займаються питаннями побудови ефективних систем управліннян підприємствами, заснованих на маркетинговій філософії ведення бізнесу, де ключова роль належить підвищенню рівня його клієнт-орієнтації в умовах насиченого конкурентного середовища.Save to LibraryDownloadby Olga Okunieva•  8  Retail, Marketing Strategy, Internal Marketing, Internal clientIndustrial and Commercial Training Emerald Article: An integrated model of training effectiveness and satisfaction with employee development interventionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Fawad Latif•  3  Internal Marketing, Internal Service Quality, Organizational Culture and Service QualityAN ANALYSIS OF INTERNAL MARKETING IN SERVICE SECTORInternal marketing helps in achieving the goals and mission of the organization. It is as important as external marketing. When management is in a position to motivate and inspire its employees in the organization to retain the customers... moreInternal marketing helps in achieving the goals and mission of the organization.It is as important as external marketing. When management is in a position to motivateand inspire its employees in the organization to retain the customers and increaseprofits with the help of this internal resource then it is called internal marketing. Ifequal emphasis is given to both the sides of this balance then the company works in asmooth environment. Hence it is very important that same amount of planning,directing, and controlling is required for internal marketing as it is required forexternal marketing. While external marketing is focused on the customers of theservices and fulfils their need, internal marketing focuses on the loyalty anddevelopment of the internal customers, employees. Internal marketing increases thebond between an employer and his employees. All the steps towards the strengths thatcan be built inside an organization on a journey to business success are a part ofinternal marketing.Internal Marketing in service sector has been an important issue since theemergence of service sector in Indian economy. User of a service is satisfied only if theservice provider gives him/her quality service. The services industry has to win theloyalty and trust of human resource in service industries because service providers actas ambassador of the organization for the customers. In absence of trust and loyaltyservice industries may have to give equal emphasis to external as well as internalmarketing. It has been discussed in the paper what may be the result if internalmarketing is missing from service sector in India. Some corrective measures have alsobeen discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Alka Jain•  2  Internal Marketing, Services IndustryDeterminants of customer satisfaction in Islamic banking: evidence from IranSave to LibraryDownloadby Mehrdad Estiri•  2  HRM & Organisational Behaviour, Internal MarketingInternal communication: Definition, parameters, and the futureSave to LibraryDownloadby Ana Tkalac Verčič•  10  Corporate Communication, Public Relations, Communication Management, Strategic CommunicationIntegrating internal communications, human resource management and marketing concepts into the new internal marketing philosophySuccessful companies attach great importance to human resource management and internal communications, because they are aware of the value of those activities and of strategic advantage they can bring to the organization. They should also... moreSuccessful companies attach great importance to human resource management and internal communications, because they are aware of the value of those activities and of strategic advantage they can bring to the organization. They should also realize that it is necessary to live internal marketing philosophy, if they stream to offer quality products and services to both markets: internal and external.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nina Pološki Vokić•  6  Relationship Marketing, Human Resource Management, International Marketing, Internal MarketingThe impact of Internal Marketing to Market Orientation concept and their effects to bank performanceThe front-line employees of the bank interact with the majority of customers and generally handle a wide range of banking transactions. It is common knowledge that customer satisfaction mainly depends on the process of service delivery... moreThe front-line employees of the bank interact with the majority of customers and generally handle a wide range of banking transactions. It is common knowledge that customer satisfaction mainly depends on the process of service delivery and less on its outcome. The above ascertainments highlight the importance of the initiation of Internal Marketing and Market Orientation in a bank institution.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nancy Bouranta•  12  Information Systems, Applied Mathematics, Service Quality, Human Resource ManagementАНАЛИЗ НА УДОВЛЕТВОРЕНОСТТА НА ПЕРСОНАЛА И КЛИЕНТИТЕIntensive competition in the area of business services stimulates companies to try to manage the satisfaction and loyalty of their most important customers. Front office personnel of companies selling their products, through their... moreIntensive competition in the area of business services stimulates companies to try to manage the satisfaction and loyalty of their most important customers. Front office personnelof companies selling their products, through their attitudes and behaviour, affect the satisfaction and loyalty levels of customers. The ability of sales staff to assess comparatively accurately whether customers receive the desired and expected service level is important from the viewpoint of marketing. The precise estimate of staff concerning customer satisfaction may considerablyreduce the costs of marketing research and provide the opportunity for proactive action on thepart of the sellers should there emerge any indications of problems.In the article there is a parallel study of the satisfaction of staff and customers in thesphere of business services and on that basis there are drawn conclusions as to the ability ofthose working at the front offices of the companies under study to judge correctly the degreeof satisfaction of the customers they serve.Save to LibraryDownloadby Asoc.Prof. Dr.Evgeni Stanimirov and +1Borislava Cherkezova•  2  Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Internal MarketingThe contribution of self-efficacy and employee satisfaction as part of internal marketing in school quality: the case of primary educationSave to LibraryDownloadby Athina Skapinaki and +1Salamoura Maria•  4  Teachers' self efficacy levels, Job Satisfaction, Internal Marketing, Quality of SchoolsImpact of HRM Practices on Job SatisfactHuman Resource Management includes conducting job analyses, planning personnel needs, recruiting the right people for the right job at right time, orienting and training them. This study is related to the impact of the HRM practices on... moreHuman Resource Management includes conducting job analyses, planning personnel needs, recruiting theright people for the right job at right time, orienting and training them. This study is related to the impact of the HRM practices on the employee job satisfaction. In the private sector universities, employees are not satisfied with their jobs even in the presence of the HRM practices. For this study simple random sampling is used and the limitations of our study are the private sector universities. A questionnaire has been used to collect primary data based on structured questions. Results shows that the HRM practices (Recruitment and Selection, Compensation and Pay Package, Training and Development, Rewards and Motivation) have more significant effects on employees’ job satisfaction in comparison of Working Environment. Further research may be done to achieve high level of job satisfaction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Muhammad Umair Tufail•  3  Human Resource Management, Internal Marketing, Online Purchase IntentionAssessment of the Impact of Internal Marketing in the retail sector: A case of N. Richards Group MasvingoWhilst searching for service quality improvement, organisations try to provide their customers more facilities and meet their needs faster. In order to do this smart and provident task, companies change the way they behave and communicate... moreWhilst searching for service quality improvement, organisations try to provide their customers more facilities and meet their needs faster. In order to do this smart and provident task, companies change the way they behave and communicate with their employees and try to keep them satisfied. Researchers have approved that customer’s satisfaction is derived from employee’s satisfaction. Internal marketing is a term that helps retailers to achieve their objectives in this way. Therefore this research is conducted to assess the impact of internal marketing on retail customer’s satisfaction. In order to gather the required data for this research, secondary data sources were used and the researcher used a questionnaire to analyze the statistical population’s (N. Richards Group employees and customers) viewpoints. This research is of the applicable type regarding the research’s goal, and is a survey research regarding the data collection method. In order to analyze the research’s hypotheses, two questionnaires for employees and customers were designed. After testing the questionnaires reliability and validity they were distributed among 50 of N. Richards Group Masvingo employees and 150 customers. This sample was derived from random cluster sampling method. To analyze the data obtained from the questionnaires, the SPSS software was used. The researcher made use of Product Moment Pearson Correlation, regression, descriptive statistics and frequencies to analyse the findings. After analyzing the gathered data derived from the questionnaire, all the research’s hypotheses were approved. Therefore the researcher concluded that meeting internal customers (employees) needs means meeting external customers’ needs too. The researcher thus recommended that N. Richards Group must adopt internal marketing strategies so as to enhance customer satisfaction in the retail industry.Save to LibraryDownloadby jefreys madzikatidze•Internal MarketingUPRAVLJANJE LJUDSKIM RESURSIMA U KONTEKSTU INTERNOG MARKETINGASave to LibraryDownloadby Almir  Pestek•  2  HRM & Organisational Behaviour, Internal MarketingEFFECTS OF INTERNAL MARKETING ON EMPLOYEES' ORGANIZATIONAL COMMITMENT: THE CASE OF NORTH AND SOUTH ADDIS DISTRICTS OF COMMERCIAL BANK OF ETHIOPIAIn its simplest form, Internal Marketing is defined as viewing employees as internal customers and viewing their jobs as internal products. The main objective of this study is to investigate the effects of internal marketing dimensions on... moreIn its simplest form, Internal Marketing is defined as viewing employees as internal customers and viewing their jobs as internal products. The main objective of this study is to investigate the effects of internal marketing dimensions on employees' organizational commitment at North and South Addis Ababa Districts of Commercial Bank of Ethiopia. To achieve the intended objectives, both primary and secondary sources were used for gathering relevant information for the study. The primary data was collected through self-administered structured questionnaire from 104 employees of the bank. The study used explanatory research design. Both quantitative and qualitative research approaches were employed to address the research questions. Exploratory factor analysis, correlation analysis and multi-regression assessment were conducted for analyzing the collected data. The study results revealed that from the three internal marketing dimensions constructed; i.e. motivation, internal communication and quality of training by the bank have a significant and positive effect on the commitment of employees to the organization.Save to LibraryDownloadby Journal ijmr.net.in(UGC Approved)•Internal MarketingEFFECTS OF INTERNAL MARKETING ON EMPLOYEES' ORGANIZATIONAL COMMITMENT: THE CASE OF NORTH AND SOUTH ADDIS DISTRICTS OF COMMERCIAL BANK OF ETHIOPIAIn its simplest form, Internal Marketing is defined as viewing employees as internal customers and viewing their jobs as internal products. The main objective of this study is to investigate the effects of internal marketing dimensions on... moreIn its simplest form, Internal Marketing is defined as viewing employees as internal customers and viewing their jobs as internal products. The main objective of this study is to investigate the effects of internal marketing dimensions on employees' organizational commitment at North and South Addis Ababa Districts of Commercial Bank of Ethiopia. To achieve the intended objectives, both primary and secondary sources were used for gathering relevant information for the study. The primary data was collected through self-administered structured questionnaire from 104 employees of the bank. The study used explanatory research design. Both quantitative and qualitative research approaches were employed to address the research questions. Exploratory factor analysis, correlation analysis and multi-regression assessment were conducted for analyzing the collected data. The study results revealed that from the three internal marketing dimensions constructed; i.e. motivation, internal communication and quality of training by the bank have a significant and positive effect on the commitment of employees to the organization.Save to LibraryDownloadby Journal ijmr.net.in(UGC Approved)•Internal MarketingDe la satisfaction du personnel en contact à la satisfaction du client : Le rôle pivot du marketing interne dans le secteur des servicesThe role of the “contact employees” became an element of differentiation. The important place granted to relational Marketing in the sector of the services does not cease evolving. This evolution brings back to us to a new orientation... moreThe role of the “contact employees” became an element of differentiation. The important place granted to relational Marketing in the sector of the services does not cease evolving. This evolution brings back to us to a new orientation marketing which is Internal Marketing. A review of literature has built a model studying, on the one hand, the impact of internal marketing on attitudes and behaviors of service employees and, on the other hand, on the customer satisfaction in services companies. The results obtained show that Internal Marketing has an impact on the satisfaction of the two populations. The role of job satisfaction appears to be a mediating variable in the relationship internal marketing-customer satisfaction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Myriam BELLAOUAIED•  4  Services' Marketing, Internal Marketing, Perceived Service Quality Gap, Customers SatisfactionİÇSEL PAZARLAMA YAKLAŞIM VE UYGULAMALARI: STARBUCKS KAHVE İŞLETMESİ ÖRNEĞİ:  INTERNAL MARKETING APPROACH AND APPLICATIONS: THE CASE OF STARBUCKS COFFEE COMPANYÖz Çalışmada iç müşteri tatmininin dış müşteri tatmini üzerindeki etkisinin belirlenmesi amaçlanmış, bu yüzden dünyaca ünlü kahve işletmesi zinciri Starbucks Coffee-İstanbul Bölgesi genel müdürü ile yüz yüze görüşme yapılmıştır. Görüşme... moreÖz Çalışmada iç müşteri tatmininin dış müşteri tatmini üzerindeki etkisinin belirlenmesi amaçlanmış, bu yüzden dünyaca ünlü kahve işletmesi zinciri Starbucks Coffee-İstanbul Bölgesi genel müdürü ile yüz yüze görüşme yapılmıştır. Görüşme sırasında önceden hazırlanmış yarı yapılandırılmış mülakat formu kullanılmıştır. Bu çalışmayla içsel pazarlama kavramına açıklık getirmeye çalışılmış ve Starbucks işletmesinin içsel pazarlama uygulamalarından bahsedilmiştir. Ayrıca çalışmada, Starbucks çalışanlarının içsel pazarlama kapsamında sosyal ve ekonomik durumları, fiziki çalışma şartları, kişisel eğitimleri ve bunun gibi çalışanı destekleyici program ve şirket içi/dışı etkinlikler hakkında bilgiler yer almaktadır. Çalışmanın sonucunda; şube sayısı sürekli artan Starbucks'ın farklı e kendilerine özgü bir içsel pazarlama yaklaşımıyla çalışanlarına ulaştığı ve çalışan memnuniyetini sağlayabildikleri görülmüştür. Abstract In this study, it is aimed to determine the effect of internal customer satisfaction on external customer satisfaction, that's why face-to-face interview was made with the world-renowned coffee chain manager, Starbucks Coffee-İstanbul district general manager. A pre-prepared semi-structured interview form was used during the interview. Through this study, it was tried to clarify the concept of internal marketing and internal marketing practices of Starbucks operation are mentioned. This study also includes information about Starbucks employees' social and economic situations within the context of internal marketing, physical working conditions, personal trainings and other supporting programs and internal and external activities. At the end of the study; with a growing number of branches, Starbucks has a distinctive and unique internal marketing approach that can reach its employees and provide employee satisfaction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aysegul  Kutluk Bozkurt•  3  Internal Customer, Internal Marketing, StarbucksImpact of Internal Marketing on Employee Job Satisfaction and Consumer Satisfaction: A Study of Healthcare Organizations in Jammu and KashmirThis paper aims at analyzing the impact of internal marketing on employees' job satisfaction and patient satisfaction based on the primary survey of twenty-five hospital administrators, seventy-five healthcare workers and seventy-five... moreThis paper aims at analyzing the impact of internal marketing on employees' job satisfaction and patient satisfaction based on the primary survey of twenty-five hospital administrators, seventy-five healthcare workers and seventy-five patients across five major public hospitals of Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir. Three questionnaires were used for this study. The first one measured internal marketing while the second one contained questions on employee job satisfaction. The third questionnaire was administered to measure patient satisfaction level. Survey data has been analyzed using one sample statistics and Pearson Correlation. Empirical analysis reveals a varied response on internal marketing, employees' satisfaction, and patients' satisfaction. The analysis of correlation coefficient indicates a positive relationship between internal marketing and employee satisfaction. However, the relationship is non-conclusive between internal marketing and patient satisfaction as well as employee satisfaction and patient satisfaction. This analysis provides an opportunity to hospital administration in using internal marketing concept in improving employee and patient satisfaction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jabir Ali and +1sana shabir•  5  Health, Internal Marketing, Consumer Satisfaction, Jammu and KashmirValue creation: An internal customers' perspectivePractitioners and researchers have paid significant attention to understanding and delivering on the needs and wants of external customers. This being the case, we know quite a lot about one perspective of the value co-creation process... morePractitioners and researchers have paid significant attention to understanding and delivering on the needs and wants of external customers.  This being the case, we know quite a lot about one perspective of the value co-creation process (i.e. external customers’ perception) but very little about other stakeholder perspectives, in particular, internal customers’ perspectives of the value co-creation process. This paper draws on the works of Edvardsson et al. (2011), Giddens (1984), Sweeney and Soutar (200), Helkkula et al. (2012), Herzberg et al. (1959) and Wolf (1970) in order to build a conceptual model of value creation developed specifically from the internal customer’s perspective.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Lo Iacono•  5  Service-Dominant Logic, Services Marketing, Internal Marketing, Value CreationEffect of Internal Marketing Strategy on Employee Performance among Selected Public Universities in KenyaPurpose: The purpose of this paper was to analyse the effect of internal marketing strategy on employee performance among selected public universities in Kenya. Design/Methodology: A total of 384 employees were sampled from both... morePurpose: The purpose of this paper was to analyse the effect of internal marketing strategy on employee performance among selected public universities in Kenya. Design/Methodology: A total of 384 employees were sampled from both administrative and academic staff positions, employing stratified random sampling proportionately from the selected four Universities. The study used primary data which was largely quantitative, collected by use of structured questionnaires. Both descriptive and inferential analyses were conducted. Findings reveal a significant relationship between internal marketing strategy and employee performance among selected public universities in Kenya. Findings: Findings reveal a significant relationship between internal marketing strategy and employee performance among selected public universities in Kenya. Theoretical implications: This study adds value to theory by not only looking at financial development attributes but by empirically analyzing the extent of the effect of internal marketing on employee performance. The study validates the main theory underpinning the study that is the Resource Based View. As established in the study, employees across various public higher education institutions are the key resources thereof, tasked with the mandate to produce both competitive and marketable graduates. Originality/Value: The paper fills an important gap in academic literature by providing insights into the effect internal marketing strategy and employee performance among selected public universities in Kenya. This paper provides policy makers with evidence on the implications of internal marketing strategy and employee performance among selected public universities in Kenya. Introduction Employee performance is critical to the success of any organization and public universities are not an exception. It is therefore imperative for an organization to adopt strategies that will not only increase employee commitment but also enhance the employee's performance. If an organization is to achieve its goals, it must not only have the required resources, it must also use them effectively (Saul, 2010). Due to this realization, organizations are seeking to understand how one of the last truly competitive resources, their human resources, can be managed to perform to their best and therefore enhance employee performance and competitive advantage (Boxall et al., 2007). According to Ahmed (2009) it enhances employee performance by using a market like approach to align and motivate the employees to be committed to their organizations. It is probable that committed workforce achieves better results in their tasks and therefore delivers better services (Halil and Cem, 2010).Save to LibraryDownloadby Oirc  Journals•Internal MarketingFrom marketing mix to relationship marketing: towards a paradigm shift in marketingSave to LibraryDownloadby Abraham Efua Dufu•  15  Marketing, Quality Management, Relationship Marketing, InteractionTHE EFFECTS OF FACTORS OF INTERNAL MARKETING ON COMPONENTS OF ORGANIZATIONAL COMMITMENT IN FOUR AND FIVE STAR HOTELS LOCATED IN CAPPADOCIAABSTRACT The aim of the study is to research the effects of factors of internal marketing on components of organizational commitment in four and five star hotels in Cappadocia (Nevsehir). The questionnaire prepared for this purpose was... moreABSTRACTThe aim of the study is to research the effects of factors of internal marketing on components of organizational commitment in four and five star hotels in Cappadocia (Nevsehir). The questionnaire prepared for this purpose was applied on the hotel employees. The data were analyzed through factor analysis and regression analysis. The findings of the research show that communication, rewards and cooperation-integration factors were significant predictors of affective commitment, and cooperation-integration, communication, rewards and motivation policies had a significant positive effect on normative commitment. Also, it can be said that motivation factor has a positive effect on continuance commitment. According to research findings, it is advised that managers should use internal communication methods efficiently as strategic tool to strengthen affective and normative commitment among employeesSave to LibraryDownloadby Suzan  Çoban•  4  Organizational Commitment, Internal Customer, Internal Marketing, Internal Marketing and Service QualityTHE EFFECTS OF INTERNAL MARKETING ON SHIP AGENTS' JOB SATISFACTION: A QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH (İÇSEL PAZARLAMANIN GEMİ ACENTELERİNİN İŞ TATMİNİ ÜZERİNDEKİ ETKİSİ: NİCEL BİR ARAŞTIRMA)The internal marketing concept is an important part of holistic marketing and services marketing triangle, and it argues that the needs and wants of employees must be satisfied by viewing them as internal customers. The main purpose of... moreThe internal marketing concept is an important part of holistic marketing and services marketing triangle, and it argues that the needs and wants of employees must be satisfied by viewing them as internal customers. The main purpose of this research is to investigate the effects of internal marketing activities on employees' job satisfaction. In order to reach the aim of the study, as a quantitative research method, the survey method was used. A total of 157 questionnaires were conducted through office employees of container line ship agents in İzmir. 143 usable responses were collected and data were analyzed by SPSS 20.0 software program. Regression analysis was used to examine the effects of internal marketing on job satisfaction. The research findings revealed that the internal marketing (development, vision and communication, and reward system) has a positive effect on job satisfaction of the office employees of container line ship agents in İzmir. Consequently, this research contributes to the related literature and also to container line agents' managers in terms of internal marketing activities and employees' job satisfaction. ÖZET İçsel pazarlama kavramı bütünsel pazarlamanın ve hizmet pazarlaması üçgeninin önemli bir parçasıdır ve çalışanları iç müşteri olarak görerek, onların istek ve ihtiyaçlarının tatmin edilmesi gerektiğini savunur. Bu araştırmanın temel amacı, içsel pazarlama faaliyetlerinin çalışanların iş tatmini üzerindeki etkisini araştırmaktır. Çalışmanın amacına ulaşmak için, bir nicel araştırma yöntemi olarak, anket yöntemi kullanılmıştır. Toplam 157 anket İzmir'deki konteyner hat gemi acentelerinin ofis çalışanlarına uygulanmıştır. 143 adet kullanılabilir anket toplanmış ve veriler SPSS 20.0 yazılım programı ile analiz edilmiştir. İçsel pazarlamanın iş tatmini üzerindeki etkisini incelemek için regresyon analizi kullanılmıştır. Araştırmanın bulguları, içsel pazarlamanın (gelişim, vizyon ve iletişim, ve ödüllendirme sistemi) İzmir'deki konteyner hat gemi acenteleri ofis çalışanlarının iş tatminleri üzerinde pozitif bir etkiye sahip olduğunu ortaya koymuştur. Sonuç olarak bu araştırma, konuyla ilgili yazına katkıda bulunup aynı zamanda içsel pazarlama faaliyetleri ve çalışanların iş tatmini açısından konteyner hat gemi acentesi yöneticilerine katkı sağlamaktadır. Anahtar Kelimeler: Hizmet pazarlaması, içsel pazarlama, iş tatmini, gemi acentesi, İzmir.Save to LibraryDownloadby gamze arabelen and +1Esra  Baran•  5  Job Satisfaction, Services Marketing, Internal Marketing, İzmirInternal marketing and supply chain managementSave to LibraryDownloadby Ian Lings•  11  Marketing, Supply Chain Management, Service Quality, International MarketingNextLast »Related TopicsServices' MarketingFollowFollowingInternal Service QualityFollowFollowingOrganizational Culture and Service QualityFollowFollowingInternal BrandingFollowFollowingCultural CommunicationFollowFollowingMarketing ResearchFollowFollowingMarketingFollowFollowingSocial and Solidarity Economy and DevelopmentFollowFollowingService EncountersFollowFollowingInternal CustomerFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023