Vandals Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Vandals4,905 FollowersRecent papers in VandalsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleVandalisme queer de Sara Ahmed (traduction française)Dans What's the Use ? [1], Sara Ahmed propose d'interroger les notions d'usage et d'usagères, et leurs implications normatives : comment l'idée de « bon » usage prescrit-elle les « bons » comportements ? Comment celle de « mauvais » usage... moreDans What's the Use ? [1], Sara Ahmed propose d'interroger les notions d'usage et d'usagères, et leurs implications normatives : comment l'idée de « bon » usage prescrit-elle les « bons » comportements ? Comment celle de « mauvais » usage sert-elle l'exclusion ou l'invisibilisation des autres ? Dans l'article qui suit, extrait de la conclusion dédiée aux « usages queer », la philosophe britannique-australienne examine la dialectique entre queerness et vandalisme, entre usages obliques et violence : avec quelle facilité les personnes qui agissent de travers sont relues comme des vandales, et pourquoi il nous appartient de réclamer le vandalisme comme pratique volontaire de défiguration/refiguration des normes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emma Bigé•  4  Queer Studies, Vandalism, Phenomenology of Space and Place, VandalsTablettes AlbertiniSave to LibraryDownloadby Simon Corcoran•  7  Legal History, Roman Law, Late Antiquity, Late Roman EmpireVielteilige Gürtel im südlichen und östlichen MittelmeerraumComposite Belts in the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean Basin. Composite belts are a special and characteristic form of early medieval dress accessories. They were believed to have a nomadic origin for several decades, but currently a... moreComposite Belts in the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean Basin. Composite belts are a special and characteristic form of early medieval dress accessories. They were believed to have a nomadic origin for several decades, but currently a strong Byzantine influence is favoured. However, the material evidence indicates a clear geographicalconcentration in the Black Sea region and on the Danube frontier as well as on the northern Barbarian periphery. Metal fittings of composite belts from the eastern and southern provinces of the Byzantine Empire were quite rare or almost entirely lacking. However, finds from recent excavations in the Near East and a num ber of still unpublished finds in various North African museums suggest that the composite belts were widely known in the Byzantine world. Nevertheless, their limited number compared to simple belt sets indicates that this type was not for daily use, but restricted to a certain circle of wearers. Although difficult to prove because of a lack of clear-cut contexts, the military use of composite belt seems likely.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christoph  Eger•  4  Early Medieval Archaeology, Byzantine Archaeology, Roman North Africa (Archaeology), VandalsRe-imperialising Roman Africa after the VandalsThe last imperial period of Roman North Africa begins and ends in narratives of invasion and conquest: Belisarius' campaign of 533/4, celebrated in glorious and oddly archaic triumph in Constantinople, and the bumbling imperial defense –... moreThe last imperial period of Roman North Africa begins and ends in narratives of invasion and conquest: Belisarius' campaign of 533/4, celebrated in glorious and oddly archaic triumph in Constantinople, and the bumbling imperial defense – or daring Muslim conquest, depending on perspective – ending in the fall of Roman Carthage, not once, but twice, in 695 and again in 698. Much emphasis in the historiography of late Roman North Africa has been placed on military events, both traditionally and also more recently in Walter Kaegi's 2010 study on Byzantine collapse and Muslim conquest. And yet, looking beyond high drama and hyperbole in both contemporary and more modern accounts, one cannot fail but wonder at the relatively minor forces engaged both in the 530s and in the late seventh century. North Africa, especially Proconsularis and Byzacena, was arguably the most wealthy and most densely urbanised territory of the Roman West. Its loss in the fifth century precipitated the fall of western imperial government, and in the seventh century it was capable of sponsoring Heraclius' successful bid for the imperial throne. So, should not the Vandal kingdom have been capable of a much stronger opposition against Justinian's reconquest, should not Justinian II and Leontius have done much more to defend North Africa? In order to gain a better understanding of how North Africa rather easily re-entered and re-exited imperial control, this paper is looking at the interaction between imperial institutions and regional socioeconomic development. Two questions are going to be examined. First we are looking at the outcomes of a century of Vandal government: to what extent did the Vandal kingdom, despite its strongly imperial ideology, weaken structures of state government and administration, thus perhaps strengthening control by socioeconomic elites, both "Vandal" and "Afro-Roman" landowners, over bureaucratic and institutional government? Secondly we have to ask whether the imperial government in the sixth and seventh century ever was truly successful in what Justinian's legislation proudly proclaimed was a reestablishment of the status quo ante. Did North Africa really become fully integrated into bureaucratic imperial government, did it become an "ordinary" part of the Empire? That the West in general and North Africa in particular remained important to Constantinople is not in question, one could point to Constans II move to Syracuse in the 660s, but what we are going to argue is that the imperial government in the long run failed to demonstrate its essential relevance for the efficient administration of North Africa to the local elites. North Africa was imperial, but imperial institutions remained weak.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hartmut G Ziche•  5  Late Antiquity, Vandals, Roman institutional history, Byzantine North AfricaLa Sicilia centro-occidentale nei secoli di Roma imperiale: dibattito storiografico e prospettive di ricerca negli ultimi decenni. Convegno di Studi su Le Rotte dei Misteri. La cultura mediterranea da Dioniso al Crocifisso, Panzano in Chianti, Feeria 2008, pp. 139-187.Save to LibraryDownloadby Salvatore  Costanza•  16  Acculturation, Archeologia, Storia Romana, VandalsL'Afrique vandale comme objet de chronique : la tertia pars orbis terrarum dans les chroniques latines des Ve et VIe siècles, in Etienne Wolff (ed.), Littérature , politique et religion en Afrique vandale, Paris, Institut d'Etudes Augustiniennes, 2015, pp. 39-52The major seven Latin chronicles of the 5th and 6th centuries provide 63 mentions about Vandalic Africa, between 429 and 534 AD. Their authors emphasize on five kinds of events: Vandalic conquest, relationship with the Roman emperors,... moreThe major seven Latin chronicles of the 5th and 6th centuries provide 63 mentions about Vandalic Africa, between 429 and 534 AD. Their authors emphasize on five kinds of events: Vandalic conquest, relationship with the Roman emperors, Vandalic piratery, religious fact (with the prominent persecution of Huneric), and Justinian’s reconquista. The chroniclers have obviously selected events reflecting a conflictuous relationship with a destructor and persecutor people, and the fact that reconquering Africa closed a deplorable time. As a matter of fact, Latin chronicles seem to transmit the memory of a secular plague, assimiling African Romans with the Jewish people, prisoner of tyrants, and their recovered freedom as God’s plan.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bertrand  Lançon•  5  African Studies, Late Antiquity, Vandals, ChroniclesRoman Barbarians: The Royal Court and Culture in the Early Medieval West (Palgrave-Macmillan: London and New York, 2007)Save to LibraryDownloadby Yitzhak Hen•  22  Iconoclasm, Early Medieval History, Visigothic Spain, Merovingian and Carolingian'To Collect Gold from Hidden Caves.' Victor of Vita and the Vandal 'Persecution' of Heretical Barbarians in Late Antique North Africa.Save to LibraryDownloadby Eric Fournier•  4  Rhetoric, Intertextuality, Religious Persecution, Vandals2014. Conant, J. (2012). “Staying Roman: conquest and identity in Africa and the Mediterranean, 439–700”. Journal of Late Antiquity 7 (1): 185-87.Save to LibraryDownloadby Chris Doyle•  13  Early Medieval History, Late Antiquity, Arianism, VandalsThe Council of Carthage of 525 and the Making of Post-Imperial Episcopal AuthorityThis article examines the overlooked Council of Carthage of 525 to show how its convener, Bishop Boniface of Carthage, used the council in an attempt to re-establish power over North Africa's Nicene bishops, who lacked clear lines of... moreThis article examines the overlooked Council of Carthage of 525 to show how its convener, Bishop Boniface of Carthage, used the council in an attempt to re-establish power over North Africa's Nicene bishops, who lacked clear lines of authority due to Vandal Homoian rule. This article reconstructs the council's dramatic, complicated, and highly orchestrated two days of discussion. The bishops spent day one re-stating Boniface's basis of authority and assembling earlier canons into precedents to confirm his power. On day two, the bishops heard a complex jurisdictional case involving a certain Abbot Peter and his monastery, which Boniface used to confirm the power the council had granted him. When this council is discussed, Abbot Peter's case is stripped from its context as a simple precedent for medieval privileges and immunities. I demonstrate how Merovingian Gallic bishops made the council into a precedent by ignoring Boniface's goals. Notably, the article illustrates how a North African late antique bishop's attempt to expand his power outside of state support became an ideal way for early medieval Gallic bishops to claim continuity with the past that actually created a break in their present.Save to LibraryDownloadby Merle Eisenberg•  7  Canon Law, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Early Medieval History, Late AntiquityPersecuting Heretics in Late Antique North Africa: Tolerant Vandals and Intolerant BishopsSave to LibraryDownloadby Eric Fournier•  3  Late Antiquity, Mediterranean and North Africa, VandalsEl monasterio de Cabrera. Siglos V-VIII d.C., Ajuntament de Palma, Palma, 2014.El verano de 2014 se cumplen quince años desde el inicio de las excavaciones arqueológicas en la isla de Cabrera, unos trabajos que sirvieron como punto de partida para el Proyecto de recuperación, consolidación y musealización del... moreEl verano de 2014 se cumplen quince años desde el inicio de las excavaciones arqueológicas en la isla de Cabrera, unos trabajos que sirvieron como punto de partida para el Proyecto de recuperación, consolidación y musealización del monasterio bizantino de Cabrera. Dicho proyecto siempre ha estado coordinado desde la Concejalía de Urbanismo del Ayuntamiento de Palma, y codirigido por los autores de este prefacio, un equipo de dirección al que, en los últimos años, se han sumado María José Rivas, Josep Maria Puche y Julio Miguel Román1. Los trabajos arqueológicos realizados en Cabrera han sido financiados por el Ayuntamiento de Palma entre los años 1999 y 2012. Los años 2005, 2006 y 2007 el Ministerio de Medio Ambiente también colaboró económicamente en temas de restauración y musealización, mientras que en 2013 se pudo emprender una campaña de limpieza de las áreas excavadas gracias a la financiación económica de la Dirección General de Universidades, Investigación y Transferencia del Conocimiento de la Consejería de Educación, Cultura y Universidades del Gobierno de las liles Balears.El objetivo principal del Proyecto de recuperación, consolidación y musealización del monasterio bizantino de Cabrera ha sido siempre el de intentar conocer y mostrar como fue el monasterio del que habla la Epístola XIII, 47, del papa Gregorio Magno, una carta escrita el año 603 d. C que demuestra, sin duda alguna, la existencia de unmonasterio en la isla balear de Cabrera.Todos los trabajos hasta ahora realizados partían de una base teórica planteada en la tesis de licenciatura titulada El monestir de Cabrero a l'antiguitat tardona, dirigida por el doctor y catedrático de la Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona Miquel Barceló Perelló, a quien no nos cansaremos de mostrar nuestro reconocimiento y nuestra gratitud. En aquella tesis, defendida el año 2002, se empezaron a cruzar los datos obtenidos en Cabrera, Conillera y el Illot dels Frares conlo que se decía en las fuentes escritas sobre el monacato cristiano de los siglos IV a VIII d. C. y con los descubrimientos arqueológicos de algunos otros ejemplos de monasterios localizados en islotes del Mediterráneo occidental y del Atlántico. Todo este trabajo permitió proponer que Cabrera fue una isla santa donde parecía que habrían coexistido dos tipos de asentamientos monásticos correspondientes a un cenobio y a diversos eremitorios. Ya entonces se argumentó que el estudio de la comunidad monacal de Cabrera debía tener por objeto la naturaleza de su funcionamiento interno, qué uso hacían los monjes del espacio y sus recursos, y qué modificaciones causaron en su entorno. Había que intentar conocer las características de sus construcciones para poder identificar sus usos y poder compararlo con lo que dicen las fuentes escritas. También se consideró muy importante poder confrontar lo encontrado en Cabrera con los restos arqueológicos de los pocos ejemplos de monasterios de los siglos V a VIII d. C. que se han podido excavar. Éstas son algunas de las directrices que han ¡do marcando nuestro trabajo estos últimos años, cuyo resultado es este catálogo.En definitiva, en este volumen se pretende mostrar una síntesis de los trabajos arqueológicos realizados en el subarchipiélago de Cabrera, contextualizándolos en el mundo del monacato cristiano de los siglos V a VIII d. C, un tiempo en que las islas Baleares formaron parte, primero, del territorio del Reino Vándalo, y, a continuación, del Imperio bizantino.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mateu Riera Rullan and +3Anna Gutiérrez Garcia-M.Julio Miguel Román PunzónDamià Ramis•  32  Archaeology, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Pottery (Archaeology), Late Antique ArchaeologyAn Overview of the Late Roman Naval Warfare AD 284-565This research paper presents an overview of the late Roman naval warfare in 284-565. It is based on five forthcoming books due to be published by Pen & Sword. The aim is to give an overview of the deployment and use of the naval forces... moreThis research paper presents an overview of the late Roman naval warfare in 284-565.  It is based on five forthcoming books due to be published by Pen & Sword.  The aim is to give an overview of the deployment and use of the naval forces in 284-565 and to explain why this deployment pattern had been adopted and how the fleets were used.  In addition, the paper gives a summary of the types of ships used and their comparative strengths vis-à-vis the enemy fleets together with a summary of the Roman naval tactics, operations and strategy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ilkka Syvänne•  33  Ancient History, Military History, Military Science, Logistics (Military Science)Aníbal vándalo y la Cuarta Guerra Púnica: el uso del recuerdo púnico en el contexto del conflicto vándalorromanoSave to LibraryDownloadby David Alvarez Jimenez•  16  Roman History, Roman Historiography, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesAugustin-Rezeption im Reich der Vandalen. Die Altercatio sancti Augustini cum Pascentio ArrianoSave to LibraryDownloadby Uta Heil•  2  Augustine, VandalsDie keltischen Funde aus Aiud (Nagyenyed, Strassburg am Mieresch), Kreis AlbaSave to LibraryDownloadby Horia Ion Ciugudean•  7  Migration Studies, Celtic Archaeology, Iron Age, Celtic Art“Sobre esta ruína edificai os vossos reinos”: A identidade vândala para as narrativas romanas dos séculos V e VIhttps://repositorio.unifesp.br/handle/11600/61233 Having settled in Imperial territory for the first time between 409 and 428 in the provinces of Hispania, and advanced on the African provinces in 429 until the conquest of Carthage in... morehttps://repositorio.unifesp.br/handle/11600/61233Having settled in Imperial territory for the first time between 409 and 428 in the provinces of Hispania, and advanced on the African provinces in 429 until the conquest of Carthage in 439. Vandals had settled in the richest regions of the Western Roman Empire, and quickly occupied a prominent place in Roman historiography, attracting the attention of clergymen who dedicated to denouncing the political-religious conduct of the Vandal kings throughout the 5th century, such as Hydatius and Victor of Vita. However, we note that among clerics, these narrative and rhetorical disputes did not achieve cohesion, because Salvian represented Visigoths and Vandals as societies more compatible with the wishes of God, a perspective that we believe to be influenced by the teachings of Augustine who judges the actions of the Goths of Alaric as examples of Christianity, in contrast to the Romans who remained in sin and therefore suffered from the divine scourge. Thus, throughout the sixth century, it is possible to see a great increase in secular literary production, especially of poets who dedicated to representing the Vandal aristocrats in their panegyrists, a period that was named by recent historiography as 'Vandal renaissance'. Finally, our research ends when we evaluate the work Procopius's Wars, and how it transmits the understanding of the identities and the Vandal kings, emphasizing the rivalry between Hilderic and Gelimer, which provided the fragmentation of the Vandal Kingdom, which justified Justinian's intervention. This is because, Hilderic is characterized as a member of the Imperial family, and portrayed as very close to Roman interests, while Gelimer, is represented as a king who wished to maintain the autonomy of the Vandal Kingdom about the Roman Empire. Thus, the main objective of this research is to understand how the narrative models about the Vandal identity, had appeared in the 5th century, mainly due to the influence of religious debates, and that later, in the 6th century, they are reorganized based on works, so-called ‘secular’.Save to LibraryDownloadby Geraldo Rosolen Junior•  20  History, Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Early ChristianityBaldassari R. La produzione della ceramica di Pantelleria e la sua circolazione in età tardo anticaPANTELLERIAN WARE AND ITS CIRCULATION IN LATE ROMAN TIME This research concerning the cooking pottery production in late roman time in the Island of Pantelleria, located in the Sicily Channel. This coarse ware consisted in pans, pots,... morePANTELLERIAN WARE AND ITS CIRCULATION IN LATE ROMAN TIMEThis research concerning the cooking pottery production in late roman time in the Island of Pantelleria, located in the Sicily Channel. This coarse ware consisted in pans, pots, casseroles and lids and large jars, useful to cook food and other raw materials as bitumen and pitch. This high refractoriness is given to the ceramic mixture by the vulcanic minerals peculiars form the clay of the island. The archaeological excavations conducted until now, discovered the ruins of a large settlement in the Scauri Bay placed in the S-W coast of the island, datable from the second half of the IV to the end of the V century. The village based its economical activity on the cooking pottery production and its export, as evidenced by the shipwreck in the harbor of Scauri. The pottery materials found in the site and in the shipwreck, come from reliable contexts and it has been helpful to a thorough tipological and chronological study of this local ware production. The analysis of the attestations in the Central and Western Mediterranean, through the bibliography and some unpublished datas from Sicily, led to create some circulation maps across the centuries. This has allowed me to make some considerations and conclusions. It has been possible to realize a diachronic study, to distinguish forms and types from the III cent. B.C. to the V cent. A.D.. The pottery had a wide circulation in the Mediterranean, mostly from the second half of the IV to the beginning of the VI centurySave to LibraryDownloadby Roberta Baldassari•  10  Archaeology, Underwater Archaeology, Cooking and Food Preparation (archaeology), PotteryHabitus barbarus. Kleidung und Repräsentation spätantiker Eliten im 4. und 5. JahrhundertClothing and outward appearance as a means of expressing individual and collective identity were of great importance in Late Antiquity. This publication is the first interdisciplinary overview of source material and provides a critical... moreClothing and outward appearance as a means of expressing individual and collective identity were of great importance in Late Antiquity. This publication is the first interdisciplinary overview of source material and provides a critical view of opposing statements on the value of written sources, images, and archaeological finds on habitus barbarus  . Based on these sources, the book develops not only a new perspective on the meaning of “barbaric” clothing but also sheds new light on the Late Roman “barbarians” themselves.Save to LibraryDownloadby Philipp von Rummel•  14  Late Antique Archaeology, Early Medieval Archaeology, Late Antiquity, Merovingian periodAt last! 'The Chronicle of Hydatius' is available again!People have been asking me for years about getting a hold of a copy of 'The Chronicle of Hydatius and the Consularia Constantinopolitana' (which went out of print in 1995) and after much nagging and manoeuvring on my part OUP is finally... morePeople have been asking me for years about getting a hold of a copy of 'The Chronicle of Hydatius and the Consularia Constantinopolitana' (which went out of print in 1995) and after much nagging and manoeuvring on my part OUP is finally offering it in a 'print-on-demand' format. It is also available as part of the classical texts in their new Oxford Scholarly Editions Online (http://www.oxfordscholarlyeditions.com/view/10.1093/actrade/9780198147879.book.1/actrade-9780198147879-book-1?rskey=alojlB&result=1), which is, alas, only available through a subscription (but check your library; they may have access).Save to LibraryDownloadby R. W.  Burgess•  33  Ancient History, Roman History, Roman Historiography, Late Antique and Byzantine HistoryVándalos y vandalismoNowadays, the perception of the Vandals, an ancient Germanic people who settled in Roman soil during the Late Empire, is conceived alongside with the term «vandalism» that currently means arbitrary violence. Nevertheless, that noun wasn’t... moreNowadays, the perception of the Vandals, an ancient Germanic people who settled in Roman soil during the Late Empire, is conceived alongside with the term «vandalism» that currently means arbitrary violence. Nevertheless, that noun wasn’t originated in ancient times, but during French Revolution. The purpose of these pages is to qualify, demystify and elucidate Vandals’ past to separate their reality with the present view associated with this term, which is clearly unfair to the Vandals memory.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Alvarez Jimenez•  12  Roman History, Historiography, French Revolution, Historiography of the French Revolution2021. Constantius Heros (ILCV 66) - An elegiac testimony on the decline of the Late Roman West. Chiron 51 [pre-proofs]This article offers a historical reassessment of the obscure commander Constantius and a new translation with textual analysis of his epitaph. Two Carolingian manuscripts preserve the text of a now lost inscription, which is our only... moreThis article offers a historical reassessment of the obscure commander Constantius and a new translation with textual analysis of his epitaph. Two Carolingian manuscripts preserve the text of a now lost inscription, which is our only source of information for this individual, and the only extant epitaph of a fifth century commander. A recent study attempted to identify Constantius as a junior officer serving the magister militum Felix in the late 420s. This article argues instead that the inscription points to a commander of the emperors Avitus and Majorian in the late 450s, who most likely ended his military career as comes domesticorum. The lost epitaph provides us with a distinct Italian perspective on the twilight years of the withering western empire.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeroen W.P. Wijnendaele and +1Michael  Hanaghan•  17  Ancient History, Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies2015. The Last of the Romans. Bonifatius, warlord and comes Africae (Bloomsbury Academic)"In the early fifth century the Roman West suffered chaos and disintegration, as the moribund House of Theodosius tried with diminishing success to remain in power. Count Boniface was a key figure in this effort. The author brings the... more"In the early fifth century the Roman West suffered chaos and disintegration, as the moribund House of Theodosius tried with diminishing success to remain in power. Count Boniface was a key figure in this effort. The author brings the count to life, displaying considerable acumen, infectious enthusiasm, and great sympathy for all players in the drama. This is an important book. (Frank M. Clover, Professor Emeritus of History and Classics, University of Wisconsin, USA)" "This, then, is a clearly written study that negotiates the difficulties of a complex period with assurance, is based on close familiarity with the ancient sources and with the most recent scholarship, and makes a good case for the importance of Bonifatius alongside higher-profile military men such as Constantius III and Aetius, while at the same time differentiating him from them."(Prof. A.D. Lee, University of Nottingham - Classical Review) "Das Resultat ist eine gründliche und ausgewogen urteilende Darstellung. ... Wijnendaele hat sein Sujet von allen Seiten beleuchtet und damit nicht nur eine interessante Studie zu Bonifatius geliefert, sondern aus einem speziellen Blickwinkel auch Beobachtungen zur generellen Lage des weströmischen Reiches dieser Zeit formuliert. ... Insofern ist Wijnendaeles Bonifatius-Buch eine anregende neue Darstellung [und] einen alternativen Blick auf die Geschichte des weströmischen Reiches zwischen 413 und 433."(Dr. Ulrich Lambrecht, Universität Koblenz-Landau - H-Solz-Kult)Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeroen W.P. Wijnendaele•  21  Ancient History, Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, AugustineGotisch, barbarisch oder römisch? Methodologische Überlegungen zur ethnischen Interpretation von KleidungSave to LibraryDownloadby Philipp von Rummel•  12  Late Antique Archaeology, History of Costume, Archaeological Method & Theory, Early Medieval HistoryReligião e Política na Antiguidade TardiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Renan Frighetto•  6  Late Antiquity, Barbarians, Vandals, Roman History, Late Antiquity; History of ChristianityBekehrungsmotive. Untersuchungen zum Christianisierungsprozess im römischen Westreich und seinen romanisch-germanischen Nachfolgern (4.-8. Jahrhundert)Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel G König•  15  Christianity, Medieval History, History of Christianity, Early Medieval HistoryRenatus Profuturus Frigeridus ve Fragmanlarına Dair Bir Değerlendirme [An Evaluation Regarding Renatus Profuturus Frigeridus and His Fragments]Save to LibraryDownloadby Tolga Ersoy•  51  Roman Historiography, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, HistoriographyEthnicity, Ethnogenesis, and the Vandals: Some Remarks on a Theory of Emergence of the Barbarian gens, "Acta Poloniae Historica" 112 (2015), pp. 201-242There are two objectives behind this article. First, it seeks to trace down the pedigree of a theory described in scholarly discourse as the 'ethnogenesis model'. As is often believed, the theory originally was, essentially, an innovative... moreThere are two objectives behind this article. First, it seeks to trace down the pedigree of a theory described in scholarly discourse as the 'ethnogenesis model'. As is often believed, the theory originally was, essentially, an innovative concept proposed by Reinhard Wenskus, the German researcher. My article puts forth the idea whereby it was Walter Schlesinger who had laid the foundations for the theory, whose concept was further developed by Wenskus. My other purpose was to verify the basics of the theory itself, based on relevant empirical material; specifi cally, I mainly deal with original sources reporting on the ethnic composition and history of the Vandal people.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Kasperski•  90  History, Ancient History, Ethnohistory, Ethnic StudiesLugiowie i Wandalowie a ziemie polskie w starożytności,,Oparta na materiale źródłowym dość luźna praca z pogranicza dzieł naukowych i popularnonaukowych, zachowująca wiarygodność i rzetelność Autora. [...] Główny cel pracy stanowiła synteza dostępnych informacji z perspektywy... more,,Oparta na materiale źródłowym dość luźna praca z pogranicza dzieł naukowych i popularnonaukowych, zachowująca wiarygodność i rzetelność Autora. [...] Główny cel pracy stanowiła synteza dostępnych informacji z perspektywy logiczno-prawniczej."Save to LibraryDownloadby Kazimierz Jan Paczesny•  5  Vandals, Barbaricum, Lugii, Lugiorum nomenLes donatistes, l'arianisme et le royaume vandaleSave to LibraryDownloadby Bruno Pottier•  3  Vandals, Roman North Africa, DonatismThe Soldier's Life: Martial Virtues and Hegemonic Masculinity in the Early Byzantine EmpireThis dissertation argues that martial virtues and images of the soldier’s life represented an essential aspect of early Byzantine masculine ideology. It contends that in many of the visual and literary sources from the fourth to the... moreThis dissertation argues that martial virtues and images of the soldier’s life represented an essential aspect of early Byzantine masculine ideology. It contends that in many of the visual and literary sources from the fourth to the seventh centuries CE, conceptualisations of the soldier’s life and the ideal manly life were often the same. By taking this stance, the dissertation challenges the view found in many recent studies on Late Roman masculinity that a Christian ideal of manliness based on extreme ascetic virtues and pacifism had superseded militarism and courage as the dominant component of hegemonic masculine ideology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Michael E Stewart•  237  Philology, Religion, History, Ancient HistoryHispania and the Roman Mediterranean, AD 100-700Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul Reynolds•  20  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Post-Roman Britain, Roman Pottery, Late Roman EmpireThe Saharan Berber Diaspora and the Southern Frontiers of Byzantine North AfricaUsing a combination of archaeological evidence and historical linguistics, this paper argues that the Moorish raids on late Roman, Vandal, and Byzantine North Africa in the fourth to sixth centuries AD were carried out by groups migrating... moreUsing a combination of archaeological evidence and historical linguistics, this paper argues that the Moorish raids on late Roman, Vandal, and Byzantine North Africa in the fourth to sixth centuries AD were carried out by groups migrating from oases in the northern Sahara, probably under the impetus of environmental change.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elizabeth Fentress and +1Andrew Wilson•  22  History, Archaeology, Late Antique and Byzantine History, North Africa StudiesStoria d'Italia dalle origini al Concilio di Trento (1563). Alle origini delle odierne specificità italianeSave to LibraryDownloadby Maurizio  Tani•  531  Philology, Religion, History, European HistoryThe Vandal Conquest of North Africa: Origins of a Historiographical PersonaA close reading of sources documenting the Vandal conquest (429–39 ce) reveals that contemporary authors did not present the event as a persecution. To be sure, they insisted on the devastation that the Vandals caused, the typical woes of... moreA close reading of sources documenting the Vandal conquest (429–39 ce) reveals that contemporary authors did not present the event as a persecution. To be sure, they insisted on the devastation that the Vandals caused, the typical woes of war, but not on its religious motivation. The article argues that it was Augustine who, in his ep. ccxxviii, first presented a theological interpretation of the event that allowed later sources writing within the Augustinian tradition to frame the conquest retroactively as a persecution.Save to LibraryDownloadby Eric Fournier•  4  Augustine, Late Antiquity, Mediterranean and North Africa, VandalsYou sexy beast: the pig in a villa in Vandalic North Africa, and boar-cults in Old Germanic heathendomSave to LibraryDownloadby Richard North•  6  Gender Studies, Old English Literature, Mythology (Old Norse Literature), VandalsKelten, Daker, Sarmaten und Vandalen im Osten der Donau-Theiß-Tiefebene und in SiebenbürgenSave to LibraryDownloadby Wolfgang David•  15  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Celtic Studies, Romanian HistoryDer König der Schweden, Goten und Vandalen. Königstitulatur und Vandalenrezeption im frühneuzeitlichen SchwedenSave to LibraryDownloadby Stefan Donecker•  5  Early Modern History, History of Historiography, Swedish History, Vandals2016. Stilicho, Radagaisus, and the so-called 'Battle of Faesulae'. Journal of Late Antiquity 9 (1).In 405 CE, an enormous barbarian confederation led by a certain Radagaisus invaded Italy. The western Roman generalissimo Stilicho managed to overcome them near Florence in 406. Historians have treated this war casually, considering it as... moreIn 405 CE, an enormous barbarian confederation led by a certain Radagaisus invaded Italy. The western Roman generalissimo Stilicho managed to overcome them near Florence in 406. Historians have treated this war casually, considering it as resolved successfully and soon overshadowed by greater conflicts. However, scholarly consensus on Radagaisus’s defeat is largely dependent on Orosius’s testimony that describes it as the outcome of a Fabian strategy conducted with minimal bloodshed near Faesulae. This report is at odds with other sources which indicate that Stilicho struggled to contain Radagaisus and ultimately inflicted a great slaughter on his forces near Florence. Orosius’s testimony cannot be accepted and internal cross- examination reveals major inconsistencies. A careful analysis of the various stages of Radagaisus’s invasion has major new implications for our understanding of the careers of key protagonists such as Alaric, Uldin, and Sarus, as well as of the breach of the Rhine frontier in 406.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeroen W.P. Wijnendaele•  22  Ancient History, Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesRethinking the minimi of the Iberian Peninsula and Balearic Islands in late antiquityThis paper revisits the minimi found in the Iberian Peninsula and the Balearic Islands and the mixed assemblages that include not only Visigothic bronzes but also other coins, especially late Roman, Byzantine and Vandal pieces. The... moreThis paper revisits the minimi found in the Iberian Peninsula and the Balearic Islands and the mixed assemblages that include not only Visigothic bronzes but also other coins, especially late Roman, Byzantine and Vandal pieces. The interpretative framework of these minimi is expanded by including new geographical and chronological information. The numismatic information is contextualised with the evidence provided by ceramics. The aim is to complement both sources of information in order to reach a clearer picture of the transitional period between late antiquity and the early Middle Ages in the territory under consideration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruth Pliego•  9  Numismatics, Late Antiquity, Early Middle Ages (History), Mediterranean archaeologyLatín africano, bereber, vándalos y visigodos.Some questions must be answered to determine the extent of the great linguistic change in Western Mediterranean between the 5th and the 10th centuries: 1) the extent of the contacts between Latin and Berber between the 2nd c. B.C and 711... moreSome questions must be answered to determine the extent of the great linguistic change in Western Mediterranean between the 5th and the 10th centuries: 1) the extent of the contacts between Latin and Berber between the 2nd c. B.C and 711 JC; 2) the continuity of Latin in north-West Africa after the 5th century, and the Latin connection betweenVisigoths and Vandals. Which data are consistent with the presence of Berbers, Afro-Romanic speakers, in Al-Andalus? To what extent Afro-Romanic may have exerted an influence on Andalusi Romance? The study of codices offers new insights. Another addition will come from a change in perspective by admitting that the Basquization (eusquerización) of the traditionally considered Basque territories occurred because of migrations in the sixth century. north of Al-Andalusthere was a contact among Afro-Romanic, Ibero-Romance (also Andalusi Romance) and Basque-Romance in addition to other situations of bilingualism, whose assessment requires redefining the origins of Spanish.Key words: African Latin, Afro-Romanic, Basque, codex, Latinization, literature, loanword.Save to LibraryDownloadby Francisco Marcos-Marín•  16  Late Latin Literature, Languages and Linguistics, Basque Studies, Romance philology2017. The early career of Aëtius and the murder of Felix. Historia: Zeitschrift für Alte Geschichte 66 (4) [pre-Proofs]This article wishes to reexamine the early career of Aëtius, with special emphasis on his elimination of the magister utriusque militiae Felix in 430. Scholars have often treated this episode superficially, but it is of fundamental... moreThis article wishes to reexamine the early career of Aëtius, with special emphasis on his elimination of the magister utriusque militiae Felix in 430. Scholars have often treated this episode superficially, but it is of fundamental importance to understand how Aëtius managed to break the western Roman court's monopoly of violence. By carefully considering the historiographical record of Aëtius' campaigns during the late 420s, the chronology of his itinerary, and the wider context of the Vandal invasion of Africa, it will both offer a new interpretation of how Aëtius managed to achieve Felix' murder and its implications for western Roman unity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeroen W.P. Wijnendaele•  22  Ancient History, Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesІСТОРІЯ ВИОКРЕМЛЕННЯ   ПІВНІЧНО-ЗАХІДНОГО КОМПОНЕНТУ ЧЕРНЯХІВСЬКОЇ КУЛЬТУРИ   НА ОСНОВІ АРХЕОЛОГІЧНИХ МАТЕРІАЛІВПроаналізована історіографія питання виділення германського компонента черняхівської культури за археологічними даними. Інтерпретація матеріалів черняхівської культури в західноєвропейській та радянській науці суттєво... moreПроаналізована  історіографія  питання  виділення  германського  компонента черняхівської  культури  за  археологічними  даними.  Інтерпретація  матеріалів черняхівської культури в західноєвропейській та радянській науці суттєво різнилася. У довоєнний та воєнний період більшість німецьких дослідників трактували черняхівські пам’ятки,  як  такі,  що  належали  переважно  готським  племенам.  У  післявоєнний  час радянські науковці розглядали черняхівську культуру як таку, що належить винятково слов’янам.  В  останні  десятиліття  утвердилося  твердження  щодо  поліетнічності черняхівської  культури,  у  складі  якої  германці  займали  не  останнє  місце.  В археологічній  літературі  з  часом  виділено  низку  ознак,  котрі  пов’язують  із  прийшлим германським  компонентом  черняхівської  культури.  Північно-західний  компонент представлений двома великими пластами старожитностей вельбарської та пшеворської культур,  котрі  часто  синкретичні;  окремі  категорії  археологічного  матеріалу  свідчать про присутність населення зі Скандинавії та Центральної Німеччини.  Скандинавськими  можна  вважати  пам’ятки  рунічного  письма,  металеві  гребені, фібули  Альмгрен/VII–216  “Монструозо”,  окремі  форми  ліпної  та  гончарної  кераміки, тринефні “великі” житла.  Із  центральноєвропейськими  старожитностями  пов’язують  окремі  форми гончарної  кераміки –  миски  із  двома  пружками  та  із  пружком  у  місці  максимального діаметра,  посудини  типу  Schaleurnen,  двонефні  “великі”  житла,  рогові  гребені  із трикутною  спинкою,  використання  дерев’яних  стовпових  конструкцій  у  поховальних камерах.  Із  впливами  пшеворської  культури  пов’язують:  поховання  із  ритуально пошкодженою  зброєю,  гострореберні  ліпні  посудини  із  максимальним  діаметром  у верхній третині висоти, певні типи триручних ваз, замки, ключі від скриньок, поховання із вторинно перепаленими фрагментами кераміки, переважно урнові кремації, посудини-відра добродзеньківського типу, зброя та залізні вироби у похованнях.  До вельбарських ознак залічені: біритуальність могильників, двофібульна модель жіночого  костюма,  переважно  ямні  кремації,  певні  типи  ліпної  кераміки,  відсутність зброї у похованнях, переважання бронзових, а не залізних виробів.  До  спільних  вельбарсько-пшеворських  ознак  відносять:  спільні  типи  кремацій, поширення  певних  типів  металевих  виробів  (фібули,  пряжки,  шийні  гривні,  підвіски-“ємності”,  ножиці,  пінцети  та  ін.),  бурштинові  “грибоподібні”  підвіски,  курганні поховання типу Військове-Башмачка.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexandr  Mylashevskyi•  6  Vandals, Goths, Przeworsk culture, Wielbark CultureHunların Doğu Avrupa'ya Gelişleri ve Got Toplulukları ile MünasebetleriKırklareli Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Tarih Ana Bilim Dalı Yüksek Lisans Tezi - "Hunların Doğu Avrupa'ya Gelişleri ve Got Toplulukları ile Münasebetleri" - (2021) | Kırklareli University Institute of Social Sciences History... moreKırklareli Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Tarih Ana Bilim Dalı Yüksek Lisans Tezi - "Hunların Doğu Avrupa'ya Gelişleri ve Got Toplulukları ile Münasebetleri"  -  (2021) | Kırklareli University Institute of Social Sciences History Department Master's Thesis -  "The Migration of Huns to Eastern Europe and Relations With Gothic Tribes"  -  (2021).Save to LibraryDownloadby Bahar Zeren•  10  Roman History, Eastern Europe, Late Roman Empire, Barbarians« Genséric fossoyeur de la Romanitas africaine ? », in Libyan Studies, 49, 2018, p. 93-119.During his four decades of rule, Genseric appears to many Africans – Catholic and pro-Roman – as the incarnation of the Antichrist. For the African municipal aristocracy he represented the image of a greedy barbarian obsessed with power,... moreDuring his four decades of rule, Genseric appears to many Africans – Catholic and pro-Roman – as the incarnation of the Antichrist. For the African municipal aristocracy he represented the image of a greedy barbarian obsessed with power, the persecutor and the gravedigger of Romanitas. If we look closely, Genseric had learned from the Romans how to manage strength and diplomacy, for negotiating with the Romans in particular. He sought to perpetuate his conquests by organising treaties with Ravenna and Constantinople, which did not prevent him from launching parallel plundering campaigns in Africa and along the coast that brought him respect and financial gain. First king of the vandals, he managed to create the first barbaric state on the territory of the empire. He was the type of leader who can be considered a visionary, bringing to fulfilment the material, political and spiritual conquests of a new era, the Spätantike.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohamed Arbi Nsiri•  20  North Africa Studies, Early Christianity, Late Antiquity, Church HistoryLa captivité de guerre en Occident dans l'Antiquité tardive (378-507) / War captivity in Late Antique Occident (378-507)La captivité de guerre, bien qu'apparaissant de manière incidente dans de nombreux travaux, n'a jamais fait l'objet d'une recherche en tant qu'objet historique autonome. L'Antiquité tardive offre pour cela un cadre particulièrement... moreLa captivité de guerre, bien qu'apparaissant de manière incidente dans de nombreux travaux, n'a jamais fait l'objet d'une recherche en tant qu'objet historique autonome. L'Antiquité tardive offre pour cela un cadre particulièrement fécond, puisqu'elle permet d'observer comment le cadre juridique et conceptuel de la captivité a évolué dans le contexte géopolitique nouveau qui suit l'arrivée des Goths à l'intérieur des frontières de l'Empire et la défaite d'Andrinople en 378. Elle permet aussi l'étude comparative des pratiques barbares et romaines. Sont d'abord envisagés les aspects juridiques, en particulier le postliminium et la notion d'ennemi à partir desquels il est possible de définir la captivité. La captivité présente l'originalité de relever à la fois du ius gentium (par la seruitus hostium) et du ius ciuile par le postliminium et la lex Corneliae qui organise la succession du romain mort en captivité. La condition du captif racheté dans le cadre de la constitutio de redemptis est aussi envisagée. L'étude s'attache ensuite à proposer des typologies de la captivité (circonstances de la capture, victimes, méthodes de coercition) pour aboutir à la conclusion que la captivité touche avant tout les civils dans le cadre de la guerre de prédation. La libération et la fuite posent la question de l'affranchissement et du statut du captif dans la société qui l'a capturé. Le rachat des captifs par les chrétiens se développe au confluent d'une théologie de la Rédemption et de réseaux ecclésiastiques liés à Lérins, Milan ou Carthage. Le travail s'achève sur la question de la mort en captivité.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hervé Huntzinger•  19  Law, Roman History, War Studies, Roman LawNumismatische Datenanalyse als Indikator der Romanisierung  des Territoriums von Nurallao (Sardinien, Italien)   -  vom Autor übersetzter Text -Searches in the warehouses of G.A. Sanna Museum in Sassari. Materials found in the territory of Nurallao. Following a census campaign and review work of the archaeological material recovered in the territory of Nurallao (CA) and kept in... moreSearches in the warehouses of G.A. Sanna Museum in Sassari. Materials found in the territory of Nurallao.Following a census campaign and review work of the archaeological material recovered in the territory of Nurallao (CA) and kept in the museum warehouse, this work is an analisys of the data obtanied after a first examination of the said material.The examination of the finds along with a careful archives researches, nothinstanding the lack of both stratigraphic data and geolocation of the places of the discovery, retraces with a discrete veracity part of the hinabitation of this territory that, due to the lack of verified data, we feel to extend to a wider range of borders, up to Nuragus and to Isili territories, returning to us fragments of history and life that were just partially noticeable until now.What appears is a group of hard-working people that since prehistoric times used to trade goods, adorn their settlements and stand out in clay creations, making the most of the resources the area has always offered.There are, although in small quantities, some pre-Nuragic-culture evidences, while more abundant are the artifacts dated back to the Nuragic age. People of Punic tradition, along with their products, imported Attican pottery from Magna Graecia to be sold as luxury goods, and perhaps they used to live in here. The Romans settled in here with villas, spas and workshops, with trading activities proven by numismatic evidence until the Vandal age.In this set, in the absence of any finding related to the Middle Ages, the rest of the archaeological evidence refers to the Post-Medieval age, with fragments of pottery production made in the island and imported.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giuseppe Carzedda  - Numismatica della Sardegna, Archeologia e Storia di un'isola -•  12  Numismatics, Ancient numismatics (Archaeology), Ancient Roman Numismatics, Roman Imperial CoinsKazanski M., The migration of the Vandals and the Suebi to the Roman West and archaeological accountsThis article addresses a few archaeological finds from the earliest stage of the Great Migration Period (late fourth to the first half of the fifth century AD) in the territory of the Western Roman Empire related to Central Europe by... moreThis article addresses a few archaeological finds from the earliest stage of the Great Migration Period (late fourth to the first half of the fifth century AD) in the territory of the Western Roman Empire related to Central Europe by origin, which could testify to the migration of the Vandals and the Suebi to the Roman West in 406 AD. These finds comprise different types of crossbow brooches discovered in the Roman provinces in Gallia, Spain, and North Africa, which parallels originate from the lands to the north of the Danube, in the zone where the Vandals and the Suebi lived by the moment of the migration to the West in 406 AD. Besides, some features of the funeral rite discovered in the early Great Migration Period in Eastern Gallia, particularly ritually destroyed weapons, meet with analogies in the cemeteries of Central European barbarians, particularly in the Przeworsk culture. These archaeological pieces of evidence were partially related to the arrival of the Vandals and the Suebi to the Roman Empire's territory in 406 AD, and also reflected the presence of the Central European barbarians in the Roman military service.Save to LibraryDownloadby Michel Kazanski•  6  Vandals, Great Migration period, Barbaricum, VölkerwanderungszeitIl "Rinascimento vandalico" in Africa tra V e VI secolo. Proposte per una rilettura storica dei testi letterariAtti XI Convegno Interdisciplinare Dottorandi e Dottori di Ricerca svoltosi presso l'Università degli Studi di Roma Tor Vergata nei giorni 18-20 giugno 2019.Save to LibraryDownloadby FABIANA ROSACI•  5  Latin Literature, Vandals, Later Roman Empire, Procopius Caesarensis‘The Origins of ‘Vandalism’’, International Journal of the Classical Tradition, 16.2. (2009), 155-75. Save to LibraryDownloadby Andy Merrills•  3  Colonial America, Vandals, Classical TraditionNextLast »Related TopicsGothsFollowFollowingBarbarians societies, Late Antiquity, Ethnogenesis, Funerary World, Goths, Vandals, Sueves, AlansFollowFollowingBarbariansFollowFollowingBarbarians and Romans in Late Antiquity and Early Middle AgesFollowFollowingTierra del FuegoFollowFollowingCarthage (History)FollowFollowingLate AntiquityFollowFollowingChiloeFollowFollowingBarbarian societiesFollowFollowingGreat Migration periodFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023