Rituals Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Rituals11,847 FollowersRecent papers in RitualsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleWolves and gods in the Etruscan worldThe Etruscan Underworld god is represented in some painted tombs with a wolf skin on his head. Why was the wolf chosen to represent a god? This is the question I will try to answer, starting from a biological approach, by examining the... moreThe Etruscan Underworld god is represented in some painted tombs with a wolf skin on his head. Why was the wolf chosen to represent a god? This is the question I will try to answer, starting from a biological approach, by examining the wolf behaviour in nature.I will consider myths and rites of the Mediterranean area and archaeological findings related to the wolf. The aim is to establish the process that led in the Etrusco-Italic world, to the development of an elusive underworld god, linked to the cities foundation rituals, iconographically represented with a bare wolf on his head.Save to LibraryDownloadby Silvia Fogliazza•  12  Comparative Religion, Etruscan Archaeology, Iron Age, Religious StudiesA Magyar Királyság és a Habsburg Monarchia a 16. században [The Kingdom of Hungary and the Habsburg Monarchy in the Sixteenth Century], 3rd ed. Budapest 2022. 564 p.Shorter English Version:... moreShorter English Version: https://www.academia.edu/966274/The_Kingdom_of_Hungary_and_the_Habsburg_Monarchy_in_the_Sixteenth_Century._Translated_from_the_Hungarian_by_Thomas_J._and_Helen_D._DeKornfeld_Boulder_Colorado_Social_Science_Monographs_Wayne_New_Jersey_Center_for_Hungarian_Studies_and_Publications_Inc._New_York_Distributed_by_Columbia_University_Press_2009._East_European_Monographs_DCCXXXV._CHSP_Hungarian_Studies_Series_18._xviii_410_pSave to LibraryDownloadby Géza Pálffy•  15  Military History, Central European history, Habsburg Studies, Early Modern EuropeConversos versus Recusants: Shaping the Markers of Difference (1570-1680)Despite their numerous similarities, Marranos in inquisitorial Spain and Recusants (and the so-called ‘Church Papists’), English Crypto-Catholics, in the wake of the English religious reforms, have rarely been studied concurrently. In... moreDespite their numerous similarities, Marranos in inquisitorial Spain and Recusants (and the so-called ‘Church Papists’), English Crypto-Catholics, in the wake of the English religious reforms, have rarely been studied concurrently. In this paper I will argue that secrecy was a central feature of the daily lives of both these minorities, and it helped them function as groups despite their internal diversity, experiencing a wide array of expressions of belonging. The elasticity of the groups’ religious practices clearly contributed to the rise of new forms of worship and to the creation of new ritual objects which could be validated by diasporic belief systems. As a consequence, beyond criticisms, these communities functioned as significant vectors of change in how their entire religious groups practiced their faiths. Ultimately, it appears that both Crypto-Jews and Crypto-Catholics existed as cohesive groups as much because their members shared religious practices as due to the diasporic culture of martyrdom.Save to LibraryDownloadby natalia muchnik•  20  Religion, Early Modern History, Inquisition, Jesuit history“Riti magici e prostituzione nigeriana: l’esperienza di una consulenza antropologica per un tribunale italiano”, in Pier Giorgio Solinas (a cura di), La vita in prestito: debito, dipendenza e lavoro, Lecce, Argo, 2007.Magic rituals and Nigerian prostitution: the experience of an anthropological consultation for an Italian court of law. International Conference: “Life on Ioan: work, debt, dependence”, Certosa di Pontignano (Siena) september, 24th to... moreMagic rituals and Nigerian prostitution: the experience of an anthropological consultation for an Italian court of law.International Conference: “Life on Ioan: work, debt, dependence”, Certosa di Pontignano (Siena) september, 24th to 26th 2004.The paper illustrates a part of the results which emerged during the research I carried out on behalf of Bergamo Law Court, in my capacity as technical adviser in the field of cultural anthropology. This type of consultation is far from commonplace in Italy. The magistrates who, in pioneering fashion, commissioned the report, needed to arrive at a better understanding of the claims of young Nigerian women who reported their pimps (“madams”), also Nigerian women, to the police. The crimes the latter  are accused of (the trial is still under way) are reduction into slavery; aiding and abetting and living on the earnings of prostitution; and aiding and abetting illegal immigration. The accounts of the accusers featured references to the use of magic rituals (commonly referred by the mass media to as “voodoo ceremonies”) as well as to forms of violent intimidation. Moreover, searches carried out by criminal police in the houses where the accusers and the accused cohabited revealed organic and inorganic materials, which appeared to bear out the supposition that magic rituals had taken place. The petition for an anthropological consultation regarded the cultural contextualization of these practices through a comparison with existing ritual practices in Nigeria. The report did not so much aim to confirm the credibility of the accusers’ claims, but rather to provide a cultural context useful for understanding the circumstances recalled. The work used the testimony of young Nigerian women, victims of the trade (some of these were interviewed personally), documentation provided by the court and numerous ethnographical texts on Nigeria. The work was first delivered in the form of a written report and then presented in court during a hearing.The ritual practices Nigerian women involved in the activity of prostitution in Italy claim they have been subjected to by the madam are divided into two types, which we have examined separately: the first performed by an adept back in Nigeria, and the second performed in the madam’s house in Italy.As far as the ritual performed in Nigeria is concerned (despite the heterogeneity of the young women’s descriptions probably owing to the fact that the adepts who carry out the ritual come from different traditions), we can find accounts of similar acts in ethno-anthropological literature on the “magical-therapeutic” rituals of the populations of the south of Nigeria The ritual the girls are subjected to often assumes the form of a sort of oath-curse through which the girls are enjoined, under threat of death, to settle their “debt” (that is to pay back the sum they are told was loaned to pay for their journey) and not to report the madam.The ritual practices performed in Italy by the madam require  more extensive and detailed research. However, from studies carried out so far it is clear that these practices consist in removing organic substances (nails, hair, body hair, blood and menstrual blood), clothes or personal objects from the victim, as well as in parcelling them up. This with the threat that the material will be used in rituals which might lead to death, rituals which the girls normally do not see and which they are therefore unable to describe. In some cases the threat is that the material will be sent to the same native-doctor who performed the ritual in Nigeria. Whether it is carried out or not, the madam’s threat to perform (or to have somebody  perform) the ritual at the girl’s expense appears to appeal to a shared native cultural substratum, pertinent to the existence in Nigeria of magic-medicinal practices. Indeed, these practices are widespread and familiar in Nigeria, though not always accepted by worshippers of various religious faiths. In the case of young Christian girls- though scarcely aware of details concerning the adepts and the techniques and the materials they use- it emerges that they at least know of the existence of these practices and some of their aims. I am especially alluding to the very much feared practice of the curse. To sum up, we can affirm that we are actually dealing with two types of ritual. The first  is the oath-curse performed in Nigeria by which the girl’s escape would betoken her death. This appears to be central. The second is the removing of organic substances carried out in Italy, which appears to act as a call to order, done as a precaution, or at critical moments (when the girl fails to obey the madam), involving the threat of performing a magic ritual and/or the evoking of the magic ritual previously performed in Nigeria.On the other hand, oaths and curses performed by ritual adepts are  recorded at length in anthropological literature, just as Nigerian legal literature testifies to rituals performed to subjugate an individual (Penal Code and Criminal Code). The aims expressed or threatened by the madam’s rituals do not appear to be an entirely new phenomenon. Subjugating someone, cursing them, preventing them from speaking or reacting, are the aims of some types of ritual which are described in ethnographic literature as often as they are found in the evidence given by Nigerian women in Italy. A peculiar element of the rituals commissioned by the madam consists in their methodical, organised and large-scale nature (indeed they do not act on a single “enemy”). This enables us to interpret these rituals as a criminal “recycling” of traditional “magic-medicinal” knowledge and techniques.Regarding the ritual performed in Italy, the marked preponderance of human organic materials compared with the numerous other ingredients (vegetal, mineral, etc..) listed in ethnographical literature on Nigerian rituals, is striking. This preponderance is observed both in victims’ accounts –where the extraction of organic substances appears to be fundamental- and in the criminal police’s descriptions of materials seized.Between rituals belonging to Nigerian tradition and those performed within the context of the trade there appear to be both divergences and parallels concerning the purposes, techniques, or materials employed. Besides these divergences or parallels, what matters most of all is that- by virtue of common references to the madam and her victims to a universe of practices existing in Nigeria- there is clearly some form of blackmail taking place. Organic substances are extracted, appealing to the deep feelings and emotions these trigger, as they are associated with the victim’s individuality, with the aim of frightening the victims of the trade. Other objects or materials represent specific cultural references. These seem to have the purpose of directly and explicitly evoking magic practices (principally curses) current in Nigeria. Being organic substances, these objects and materials either foreshadow a future act of magic, or are genuinely used in a ritual, their principal role appearing to be explicitly, within the context of the madam/victim relationship , that of threatening the latter, and preserving and representing on a physical and sensorial level the relationship of total subjugation to the madam.Save to LibraryDownloadby lidia calderoli•  5  Migration, Nigeria, Italy, RitualsAlevi İnanç Sisteminde Dem Kültü ve Dem Geldi Semahları/The Cult of Dem in the Alevi Belief System and Dem Geldi SemahsAlevi inanç sisteminde dem, dolu gibi isimlerle adlandırılan ve Alevi cemlerinde önemli bir yere olan içki kültü üzerine oluşturulan ritüeller ve inanç pratikleri mevcuttur. Alevi inanç sistemindeki içki kültüne bazı yayınlarda... moreAlevi inanç sisteminde dem, dolu gibi isimlerle adlandırılan ve Alevi cemlerinde önemli bir yere olan içki kültü üzerine oluşturulan ritüeller ve inanç pratikleri mevcuttur. Alevi inanç sistemindeki içki kültüne bazı yayınlarda değinilmiştir. Fakat bu yayınlar doğrudan konuya odaklanmadıkları için geneli ortaya koymaktan uzak bir tablo çizmektedir. Mevcut yayınların temel eksikliklerinden biri de görsel unsurlarla desteklenememiş olmasıdır. Bu çalışmada Anadolu ve Balkan coğrafyasında yerleşik Alevi topluluklarında yaşamaya devam eden dem merkezli ritüellerden tespit edilenler farklılıkları ile birlikte analiz edilerek sunulacaktır. Dem kültü merkezli icra edilen ritüellerden biri olan “Dem Geldi Semahları” makalede farklı yörelerden örneklerle görsel unsurlarla desteklenerek analiz edilecektir. Dem Geldi Semahları farklı yerleşim birimlerinde cem ritüeli içerisinde dem hizmeti ile birlikte icra edilen semah ritüellerinden birisidir. Çalışmada Türkiye’nin muhtelif yerleşim birimlerinde yaptığımız alan araştırmalarında kayıt altına aldığımız Dem Geldi Semahları, semahların icra şekilleri, ritüel içerisindeki yeri, icra edilen eserler ve notaları ile mukayeseli bir şekilde verilecektir. Analizlerde, sadece semah merkezli bir bakış açısı ile odaklanılmadan inanç zümresinin içki kültüne bakışı da gerekli yerlerde içki ile ilgili diğer inanç pratiklerine atıflar yapılarak ortaya konulmaya çalışılacaktır.  In the Alevi belief system, there are rituals and belief activities known as dem or dolu formed around the cult of drink which has an important place in the Alevi cems. Some publications have mentioned this cult within the Alevi belief system. However, those publications are far from revealing the overall of this subject because they aren’t focusing directly on the subject. Also, one of the basic lacks of available publications is that they don’t include visual elements. In this paper, determinations from dem based rituals that are continuing to live in the Alevi communities in Anatolia and Balkans, together with differences between them will be analyzed and presented. It will be made an analysis of “Dem Geldi Semahs”, one of the rituals that are dem based practiced, supported with examples from different regions and visual elements. “Dem Geldi Semahs” is one of semah rituals which are performed together with dem service within cem ritual on different locations. In the study, “Dem Geldi Semahs” which we recorded during our fieldwork on the various locations in Turkey, and the forms of semahs performance, its place in the ritual, musical works with notes will be presented comparatively. In the analyses, without just focusing on the semah basic aspect, it will be also presented the view of the belief community on the cult of drink by referring, when it is necessary, to other belief activities related to drink.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mehmet Ersal•  24  Religion, Folklore, Ritual, Folklore (Literature)The Principles of Ritual LogicThe practice of occultism is an alternative phenomenon in respect of the ordinary modalities of the dominant religious institutions in a given historical period. On occasion, however, this practice is not confined to the context of... moreThe practice of occultism is an alternative phenomenon in respect of the ordinary modalities of the dominant religious institutions in a given historical period. On occasion, however, this practice is not confined to the context of deviance but can lead to the commission of criminal actions. It is therefore useful to highlight the means of reasoning, even if seemingly incomprehensible, which forms the basis of the accomplishment of magical acts. Contrary to what one may think, the world of occultism is not something improvised and insensate, yet it is characterised by principles that govern what could be defined as a "ritual logic", endowed with its own peculiar internal coherence that guide the actions of those who still practice magic today. Considering primarily the occultist writings and the history of magic, this article seeks to identify such principles in order to begin to comprehend not only one of the most historically representative domains of deviance, but also the motivations of the offenders and victims involved in ritual crimes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lifescience Global Canada and +1Beatrice Ugolini•  3  Occultism, History of magic, RitualsPerception toward Organizational Learning Culture in Small-Size Business EnterprisesAbstract: This study sought to determine the relationship between four independent variables educational level, longevity, gender, type of enterprise, and the dependent variable respondents&#x27; perception of culture toward... moreAbstract: This study sought to determine the relationship between four independent variables educational level, longevity, gender, type of enterprise, and the dependent variable respondents&#x27; perception of culture toward organizational learning readiness. An exploratory correlational research design was employed to survey 498 employees in seven small business enterprises in the southern and Midwestern United States. The results indicated a large portion of the variance in the dependent variable was explained by the ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Fredrick Nafukho•  9  Organizational Learning, Organizational Culture, Culture, BeliefsThe ironies of bringing Christ to the motherland: The interaction ritual chains of Chinese-Canadian evangelicals over short-term missions to ChinaShort-term mission trips (STMs) are service trips, typically lasting from one week to a few months, which entails an individual travelling to a distant place to engage in a type of voluntary social service, often in tandem with... moreShort-term mission trips (STMs) are service trips, typically lasting from one week to a few months, which entails an individual travelling to a distant place to engage in a type of voluntary social service, often in tandem with proselytization. Given the rapid increase of STMs since the 1980s, they have arguably become a rite of passage for devout evangelicals. In an age where conservative congregations are looking to stave off the threat of secularism for its next generation, STMs have been regarded one of the most compelling religious experiences available to its laity.While many have studied second-generation Chinese Christians in North America, few have examined this population from a transnational frame. My multi- sited ethnography follows four STM teams deployed to China by Chinese evangelical churches from across Canada in 2015. One STM sending congregation in the Greater Toronto Area was also observed for almost two years. The research participants are highly religious Chinese Canadians, most being second-generation children of Cantonese Chinese immigrants from Hong Kong. Many have limited mastery of the Chinese language and little knowledge of their ethnic homeland. Semi-structured interviews were also conducted before the STM, immediately after the STM, and a year after the STM.This paper examines the STM’s impact upon the short-term missionaries’ (STMers) sense of social solidarity, broadly defined. I specifically interrogate the intersections of their religious (i.e. evangelicalism), ethnic (i.e. “Chinese”), and national (i.e. “Canadian”) identities by examining how they give meaning to their STM experiences. I accomplish this by applying the theoretical tools from the sociology of emotion’s interaction ritual chains theory by Randall Collins that follows the microsociological lineage of Durkheim and Goffman.My findings reveal that the second generation negotiate complex meanings to their transnational STM experiences. Several interconnected contradictions emerge. First, being in China, the participants are forced to negotiate their Chinese and Canadian identities; that is, to come to decide the extent they are Chinese or not- Chinese. This is relevant given previous scholarship has identified ethnic identification to be an important variable to one’s religiosity. Second, while claiming solidarity with local Chinese Christians under the global umbrella of Christendom, they struggle to come to terms with their Canadian socioeconomic privilege when juxtaposed with the people they seek to serve abroad. Third, despite the STMers’ desire to ‘experience God’ to strengthen their faith, this motivation is inherently based on modern Enlightenment values of empirical verification.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jonathan Tam•  18  Religion, Sociology of Religion, Transnationalism, DiasporasCompte-rendu de C. Alès et C. Barraud, eds, Sexe absolu, sexe relatif ? (2001)Save to LibraryDownloadby Pascale Bonnemère•  3  Gender Studies, Temporality, RitualsSensory Shifts and 'Synaesthetics' In Sukuma HealingThe Sukuma Sensorium Before discussing the sensory shifts that are pivotal in Sukuma healing, an introduction to the human sensorium may be in order. As a Western ethnographer, I am inevitably influenced by Euro-American conceptions in... moreThe Sukuma Sensorium Before discussing the sensory shifts that are pivotal in Sukuma healing, an introduction to the human sensorium may be in order. As a Western ethnographer, I am inevitably influenced by Euro-American conceptions in which ...Save to LibraryDownloadby koen stroeken•  19  Psychology, Music, Anthropology, PhenomenologyReview: Dorene Koehler, The Mouse and the Myth: Sacred Art and Secular Ritual of DisneylandSave to LibraryDownloadby Matthew H . Brittingham•  12  Religion, Joseph Campbell, Ritual Theory, California HistoryTwo roman dice from the Moldavian plainThe article presents two Roman long dice discovered in the carpic settlements from Botosani-Dealul Cărămidăriei and Botosani-Groapa lui Ichim Their presence attests to the diversity of the relations between the free Dacians from the Plain... moreThe article presents two Roman long dice discovered in the carpic settlements from Botosani-Dealul Cărămidăriei and Botosani-Groapa lui Ichim Their presence attests to the diversity of the relations between the free Dacians from the Plain of Moldavia and the Roman world of the 3rd century.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Ciucalau•  4  Games, Rituals, Free Dacians, Roman DicePerformed narrativesThe narrative tradition in the African Diaspora incorporates so much more than what we typically recognize as written or oral text. What this requires of us is a multivalent approach to the analysis of our storytelling. The idea of a... moreThe narrative tradition in the African Diaspora incorporates so much more than what we typically recognize as written or oral text. What this requires of us is a multivalent approach to the analysis of our storytelling. The idea of a performed narrative springs from our rich traditions of non-verbal and verbal storytelling, and the interplay between the two. To be anecdotal, the term performed narrative comes out of my attempts to codify calypso, in particular, and carnival in general. Teaching calypso composition, as a literary scholar, naturally led to me relying on literary criticism and theory. At the same time, analyzing only the lyrics falls so short of accessing the full scope of the calypsonian's narrative. This academic mini-crisis pushed me towards the post-modernist chestnut: everything is text. It also pushed me to consider what the "languages" of these texts are, and how these texts and languages overlap. From calypso, applying such considerations to mas and masquerade, especially traditional carnival characters which still convey a story without verbalizing-through dance and visual symbols-led me to contemplate a narratology beyond language. The term performed narrative, then, refers to a form of narration fully rendered through several media-Language, Music, Movement (dance), and Dress/costume-simultaneously. We can analyze each narratological strain separately, but the full story is not revealed until we combine these strains. A calypso's true meaning lies in the interchange between the lyrics, music, and performance (stage presence and outfit). A masquerade may or may not speak, but the story is evoked through the costume, dance, and the music spurring (or created by) the dancer's movement. A short story, novel, or poem can have movement and music carried in the cadence and clip of language. To be fair, the concept of a performed narrative is not new-plays, ballets, and films readily spring to mind as examples of storytelling achieved by multivalent narrations. I do seeSave to LibraryDownloadby Kela N N A R K A Francis•  3  Literature, Performance, RitualsNationalistic Collective Rituals, Intergroup Relations, and Legitimation of National Social SystemsIn this article, we test if international football matches in Latin America can be understood as nationalistic collective rituals and if participating in them leads to prejudicial attitudes toward immigrants and to legitimize the national... moreIn this article, we test if international football matches in Latin America can be understood as nationalistic collective rituals and if participating in them leads to prejudicial attitudes toward immigrants and to legitimize the national social systems. Based on social identity theory and literature on collective rituals, we propose that participating in collective rituals makes cognitively salient social identity over self-identity through collective emotions. Therefore, individuals are more motivated to perceive the social systems as fair and legitimate and to show outgroup derogation. In Study 1 (N = 414), interest in football was associated with national identification a week before an international tournament in Brazil, Chile, and Spain. This association was mediated by fusion of identity with the national ingroup but not by experiencing collective positive emotions. In Study 2 (N = 118), we used an experimental design and showed that nationalism moderated the effect of participating in nationalistic collective rituals on measures related to behavioral intentions. Specifically, these rituals decreased outgroup prejudice among high nationalistic participants. Collective rituals are discussed as a form of collective self-affirmation that may have reduced defensiveness and led nationalistic individuals to behave according to the predominant values within a society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dario Paez•  3  Social Psychology, Sports, RitualsGrolier Codex Excerpt (pp. 98-99) from "America's Ancient Skywatchers" (National Geographic Magazine)One of four known ancient Maya books, the Grolier Codex depicts different manifestations of Venus; the column of glyphs on the left of each panel records days in a 104-year Venus almanac. These plaster-coated bark-paper pages,... moreOne of four known ancient Maya books, the Grolier Codex depicts different manifestations of Venus; the column of glyphs on the left of each panel records days in a 104-year Venus almanac. These plaster-coated bark-paper pages, carbon-dated to the 13th century, represent only half of the 20-page original. This article is an excerpt of pages 98-99 from the March 1990 National Geographic Magazine article "America's Ancient Skywatchers" by John B. Carlson with a numbered photographic arrangement of the Grolier Codex depicting the author's discovery that Codex pages 10 and 11 are actually two parts of the same "page 10".  Carlson clarifies the identities of Venus deities depicted in the Grolier Codex from a comparison of images from the Cacaxtla murals and links the images of the Grolier Codex with ancient Maya astronomically timed ritual warfare and sacrifice. (Grolier Codex photographs: Enrico Ferorelli; Mural photograph: Bob Sacha)  This article has been posted on Academia.edu as part of the Grolier Codex Project of the Center for Archaeoastronomy under the directorship of John B. Carlson, Ph.D.  The Grolier Codex Project seeks to further advance the study of the Maya Grolier Codex.Save to LibraryDownloadby John B Carlson•  131  Religion, Comparative Religion, Mythology And Folklore, EthnohistoryApproaching Rituals in Ancient Cultures (preface and introduction; AMBOS and VERDERAME)Save to LibraryDownloadby Lorenzo Verderame and +1Claus Ambos•  27  Sumerian Religion, Egyptology, Assyriology, HittitologySametové posvícení jako hra symbolůSave to LibraryDownloadby Martin  Pehal•  4  Happenings, Public Life, Ritual and Performance, Identity and Subjectivity, Festivals, RitualsSynchrony vs. pain in males and females: an examination of differential effects on social bonding in a naturally occurring ritualRituals are thought to bind individuals together. Rituals that are perceived high in pain and behavioral synchrony increase social bonding, but the relative contribution of perceived pain vs. synchrony is unexplored. In addition, gender... moreRituals are thought to bind individuals together. Rituals that are perceived high in pain and behavioral synchrony increase social bonding, but the relative contribution of perceived pain vs. synchrony is unexplored. In addition, gender differences are rarely investigated in experimental studies of ritual, despite known gender differences in ritual participation, emotional processing, social bonding and pain processing. The current study uses data from 137 participants in a naturally occurring high ordeal ritual lasting 10 days. Because all individuals participated in multiple rituals varying in perceived pain and synchrony, it was possible to separate the unique and joint effects in a natural context. We found strong bonding effects for rituals perceived as painful, but not for synchrony. Rituals rated as higher in level of pain (involving cuts, piercings and burns) were associated with greater self-reported social bonding. Gender moderated these effects: Women reported stronger bonding after participating in non-synchronous rituals perceived higher in pain, whereas men reported greater bonding after synchronous activities with more perceived pain. These findings suggest that pain-related processes are a more potent social bonding mechanism than synchrony in naturally occurring high ordeal rituals, but that perceived pain may have different signaling functions depending on the gender of performers. ARTICLE HISTORY Collective rituals pose interesting questions from an evolutionary perspective, especially those rituals in which individuals voluntarily inflict pain, suffer injuries, or undergo extended periods of chanting or praying. These activities involve costs for participants that may seem to not have any immediate benefits, especially when considering the risks of injuries or involving costly taboos such as foregoing food, drink or sleep for extended periods of time. Recently, a number of studies have demonstrated that both discomfort or behavioral synchrony as specific features of collective ritual increase proso-ciality and social bonding (e.g., Xygalatas et al., 2013). Anthropolo-gical records indicate that many collective rituals involve both discomfort 1 (including states that outsiders would consider as painful) and synchrony 2 elements, with participants often singing, chanting and dancing while performing high ordeal activities (e.g., Turner, 1969; Whitehouse, 2004; Xygalatas, 2012a). Previous research has studied these effects in isolation, but most rituals vary along both dimensions. We address to what extent physical discomfort/high physical ordeal andSave to LibraryDownloadby Ronald Fischer and +1janpaphat  Kruekaew•  14  Religion, Buddhism, Ritual, Thailand2.07-Puddu M., Identità precarie e pratiche funerarie creative della Sardegna di età romana: studio post coloniale della cultura materiale intesa come continuum semiotico, ABSTRACT ESPANSO, in Nizzo V. (ed.), Archeologia e Antropologia della Morte, forthcomingBinary identities normally characterize the archaeological account for the colonial encounter between Roman Empire and its provinces. Funerary archaeology can be determinant to overcome this duality if remains areanalyzed in the details... moreBinary identities normally characterize the archaeological account for the colonial encounter between Roman Empire and its provinces. Funerary archaeology can be determinant to overcome this duality if remains areanalyzed in the details as signs of possible actions, in order to reconstruct the practices involving the material culture and the body of the deceased and to see them in motion. This contribution, focused on a necropolis of central Sardinia, Masullas, offers some insights concerning the manipulation of certain parts of the bodies from ancient burials and their introduction in new ones as a way to bridge a certain community’s world to the past and solve, even if temporarily, dissatisfactions with precarious identities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Valentino Nizzo and +1Mauro Puddu•  10  Death, Sardinia (Archaeology), Identity (Culture), Complexity“About as Solid as a Fish Net”: Symbolic Construction of a Legitimate Parental Identity for Nonbiological Lesbian MothersNonbiological lesbian mothers lack not only biological ties to their children, but have no legal ties even if those children are intentionally conceived through donor insemination in the context of a committed relationship. This article... moreNonbiological lesbian mothers lack not only biological ties to their children, but haveno legal ties even if those children are intentionally conceived through donor inseminationin the context of a committed relationship. This article explores symbolic attemptsto construct the nonbiological mother as a legitimate parent in the absence ofsuch ties. Sixteen families whose children were conceived through donor inseminationare analyzed in this study using constructivist grounded theory. Findings suggestthat address terms for the nonbiological mother, children’s last names, and legalmoves are primary symbolic ways lesbian families attempt to construct a legitimateparental identity for the nonbiological mother. These strategies suggest the potentialfor increased social recognition of nonbiological mothers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elizabeth Suter and +1Karla Bergen•  8  Gender Studies, Communication, Gay And Lesbian Studies, FamilyNīš libbi/šà.zi.ga, Sexual Desire or Potency? Theoretical and Methodological Introduction and Lexicographical Issues (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich)Save to LibraryDownloadby Gioele Zisa•  11  Medical Anthropology, History of Medicine, Anthropology and Sexuality, Mesopotamian ReligionsConnecting Life and Death: Rituals, Prohibitions and Spirits. Ibaloy Perspectives (Itogon, Philippines). Volume 2This publication is the volume 2 of a series dealing with the culture and traditions of the Ibaloy of Upper Loacan (Itogon, Benguet, Philippines). It is available in Nabaloy and in English. Elders share their stories to a group of... moreThis publication is the volume 2 of a series dealing with the culture and traditions of the Ibaloy of Upper Loacan (Itogon, Benguet, Philippines). It is available in Nabaloy and in English. Elders share their stories to a group of youngsters who ask them questions on a variety of topics such as rituals, prohibitions and spirits. The book provides the verbatim accounts of these conversations recorded during a workshop that took place at the Senior-Citizen hall in 2017.Save to Libraryby frederic laugrand and +1Antoine  Laugrand•  12  Anthropology, Indigenous Studies, Ethnography, Social and Cultural AnthropologyDonne pastore, gauchos e figli del vento. Ecologie andine e reti di parentela nel Nord Ovest Argentinohttp://www.cleup.it/donne_pastore_gauchos.htmlSave to LibraryDownloadby Daniela Salvucci•  5  Argentina, Cultural Ecology, Andean studies, RitualsAn infinity of stripesA particularly attractive but hitherto unidentified Berber type of costume, a striped haik (a rectangular flat weave garment worn by women) appeared on the Moroccan textile art market a number of years ago. L. Viola during one of his... moreA particularly attractive but hitherto unidentified Berber type of costume, a striped  haik (a rectangular flat weave garment worn by  women) appeared on the Moroccan textile art market a number of years ago. L. Viola during one of his recent field trips identified for the first time the tribe that produced them. These Berber weavings are generally about 50 years old (but are still produced) and were woven in the Ait Moussa villages of the Mejjat Anti-Atlas tribe. While Lucien Viola traces their history and beliefs, Alexandra Sachs, co-author, describes their aesthetic and exceptional visual impact. This article was published by Hali Magazine (issue 200 summer 2019) An Infinity of Stripes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lucien Viola•  20  Morocco, Costumes, Cotton, RitualsMonarchie en geschiedschrijving. De vorstenbiografie revisitedMaria Grever, 'Monarchie en geschiedschrijving: de vorstenbiografie revisited', Tijdschrift voor geschiedenis 126 (2013) nr. 3, 378-387. De vorstenbiografie werd lange tijd niet serieus genomen. Ten onrechte. De dynastieke en... moreMaria Grever, 'Monarchie en geschiedschrijving: de vorstenbiografie revisited', Tijdschrift voor geschiedenis 126 (2013) nr. 3, 378-387.De vorstenbiografie werd lange tijd niet serieus genomen. Ten onrechte. De dynastieke en internationale netwerken van vorsten en hun rol in de politiek bieden tal van interessante gezichtspunten op de ontwikkeling van politieke systemen en sociaal-culturele verhoudingen. Dat blijkt uit de studies van Cees Fasseur over koningin Wilhelmina (2012) en van Gita Deneckere over koning Leopold I (2011). In welke mate biedt de vorstenbiografie als genre een eigen invalshoek voor de politiek-culturele historiografie?Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Grever•  4  History of Historiography, Monarchy, Rituals, RoyaltyThe influence of rituals and taboos on sustainable wetlands management: The case of Matobo District in Matabeleland South ProvinceMatobo district is renowned for a lot of rituals and taboos due to its association with the Njelele “sacred” shrine, which for a long time housed u Ngwali, the Ndebele spirit medium. Although the district lies within agro-ecological four... moreMatobo district is renowned for a lot of rituals and taboos due to its association with the Njelele “sacred” shrine, which for a long time housed u Ngwali, the Ndebele spirit medium. Although the district lies within agro-ecological four which is characterised by erratic rainfall, the presence of wellmanaged wetlands has saved the local communities from the debilitating effects of droughts. The study sought to find out the role played by the rituals and taboos on wetland management in Matobo District. The study made use of a qualitative research method. Forty participants selected through random and snowball sampling methods were interviewed on the influence of the rituals and taboos on wetlands management. The majority of the participants 80% felt that rituals and taboos that are embedded in the indigenous knowledge systems of the Ndebele society, have contributed much in sustainable management of wetlands. Few of the participants (20)% felt that scientific methods should be used i...Save to LibraryDownloadby christopher ndlovu•  4  Geography, Rituals, Food Taboos, Sustainable ManagementThe Double-Headed Dragon and the Sky: A Pervasive Cosmological SymbolSave to LibraryDownloadby John B Carlson•  99  Religion, Native American Religions, Comparative Religion, SociologyRituals, emotional entrainment and national identification: A cross-national study around the European Football Championship.Although the effects of nationalized mega-events on national identification have been theorized and examined by a number of studies, little is known about the specific mechanisms that bring about changes in people’s attitudes towards... moreAlthough the effects of nationalized mega-events on national identification have been theorized and examined by a number of studies, little is known about the specific mechanisms that bring about changes in people’s attitudes towards their country. The authors hypothesize that during nationwide rituals, in particular sports mega-events, participants experience collective emotional entrainment in the context of national symbols and practices that in turn increases their identification with their nation. The authors present results of a naturalistic quasi-experimental study around the 2012 UEFA European Football Championship with participants from Germany, the United Kingdom, and Poland. Using a multidimensional measurement of national identification, the authors show that the experience of emotional entrainment is associated with changes in symbolic, civic, and solidary facets of identification in ways specific to the different national contexts.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian von Scheve and +2Sven  IsmerMarta Mozlowska•  6  Sociology of Emotion, National Identity, Sociology of Emotions, SportsThe ‘Einot Amitai Archaeological ProjectGo to the Institute of Archaeology website for a description of the project: http://archaeology.afau.org/excavations-and-surveys/einot-amitai/For the project's Hebrew Facebook page, go to: https://m.facebook.com/EinotAmitai2016/Save to LibraryDownloadby Yonatan Adler•  32  Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, Jewish LawТеодор Райк и его взгляд на основные проблемы психологии религии + Т.Райк. Ритуал. Психоаналитические исследования (фрагмент). Сверка-перевод Дамте Д.С. // MAGNUM IGNOTUM. Том 4: Психология религии и психоанализ. – М.: Клуб «Касталия», 2017. – С. 19 - 50.Статья и перевод фрагмента работы Теодора Райка "Ритуал. Психоаналитические исследования" (перевод восстановлен по архивным документам и сверен с немецким оригиналом. В ряде мест осуществлен новый перевод).Save to LibraryDownloadby David Damte•  17  Psychoanalysis, Metapsychology, Ritual, Psychology of ReligionNos caminhos do nixi pae: movimentos, transformações e cosmopolíticasEsta pesquisa buscou mapear um recente movimento impulsionado pelo uso do nixi pae (ayahuasca) e de outras medicinas da floresta nas terras indígenas kaxinawá das regiões do Rio Humaitá e do Rio Jordão, estendendo-se também a centros... moreEsta pesquisa buscou mapear um recente movimento impulsionado pelo uso do nixi pae (ayahuasca) e de outras medicinas da floresta nas terras indígenas kaxinawá das regiões do Rio Humaitá e do Rio Jordão, estendendo-se também a centros urbanos em diversos estados do País e do Exterior (além das terras indígenas, a observação etnográfica concentrou-se no sudeste do País, especialmente no estado de São Paulo). O uso do nixi pae pelos Huni Kuĩ (Kaxinawá), cujos rituais hoje também contam com a presença de não-indígenas (nawá) nas cidades e em suas próprias aldeias, como na ocasião dos festivais, têm deflagrado uma série de transformações nas “tradições” e na “cultura” desse povo. Ao delinear as associações entre actantes envolvidos neste movimento, em que as cosmologias de povos ameríndios, de religiões ayahuasqueiras e do movimento Nova Era são imbricadas de formas específicas, adentramos numa dimensão cosmopolítica do debate, na qual o nixi pae aparece como mediador não-humano fundamental na mobilização de redes de trocas, confrontos e alianças.Save to LibraryDownloadby Guilherme Meneses and +1Débora Tavares•  16  Anthropology, Indigenous Studies, Actor Network Theory, ShamanismBound by Flesh, Freed by Blood: The Spirituality in Contemporary Art Represented Through the Motif and Material of BloodThis thesis aims to explore the spirituality in contemporary visual arts through the motive and the materiality of blood in Ron Athey's Self-Obliteration and Vincent Castiglia's Stings of the Lash through the analysis of religious symbols... moreThis thesis aims to explore the spirituality in contemporary visual arts through the motive and the materiality of blood in Ron Athey's Self-Obliteration and Vincent Castiglia's Stings of the Lash through the analysis of religious symbols and icons, along with the dual use of blood as material and symbol. By blood been assigned and marked to its sacred role through the sacrifice of Jesus and the Eucharist, I explore its modern artistic representation and ask about its final effect and affect. In order to precisely determine the difference between the traditional religious meaning of blood and suffering in its modern artistic ritualization and performance, my case studies are placed within a broader framework of ritual theory and sociology of art, along with spirituality as the detachment of the physical world. A biographical dimension is added to my analysis of the artworks especially concerning their use of tropes, materials and effects of pain and suffering. With reference to the concepts of trauma and catharsis, such as Aristotle's affective empathy in Poetics, I analyze the two artworks with the help of theories on trauma, as well as semiotics, affect theory, and the ritualistic practice of performance, since ritualization and performance can build the bridge between religion and modern art. This thesis aims to explore the production of spirituality in art through the use of blood and suffering. It will put the reference to and the use of religious symbols, rituals, and 'material' in contemporary art to the discussion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Savina Toumazou•  10  Contemporary Art, Spirituality, Theory of Religion, Painting"... on the borderline". Zur Teilnahme an einem Grenzgang in der Westpfalz (2018)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mirko Uhlig•  5  Ethnography, Legal Anthropology, Anthropology of Borders, Cultural AnthropologyAmerica's Ancient Skywatchers (National Geographic Magazine)The Grolier Codex is discussed in the context of the archaeoastronomy of the ancient Americas on pages 98-99 of the March 1990 National Geographic Magazine article "America's Ancient Skywatchers" by John B. Carlson. One of four known... moreThe Grolier Codex is discussed in the context of the archaeoastronomy of the ancient Americas on pages 98-99 of the March 1990 National Geographic Magazine article "America's Ancient Skywatchers" by John B. Carlson. One of four known ancient Maya books, the Grolier Codex depicts different manifestations of the planet Venus; the column of glyphs on the left of each panel records days in a 104-year Venus almanac. These plaster-coated bark-paper pages, carbon-dated to the 13th century, represent only half of the 20-page original. A numbered photographic arrangement of the Grolier Codex depictes the author's discovery that Codex pages 10 and 11 are actually two parts of the same "page 10".  Carlson clarifies the identities of Venus deities depicted in the Grolier Codex from a comparison of images from the Cacaxtla murals and links the images of the Grolier Codex with ancient Maya astronomically timed ritual warfare and sacrifice. (Grolier Codex photographs: Enrico Ferorelli; Other photos: Bob Sacha)  This article has been posted on Academia.edu as part of the Grolier Codex Project of the Center for Archaeoastronomy under the directorship of John B. Carlson, Ph.D.  The Grolier Codex Project seeks to further advance the study of the Maya Grolier Codex.Save to LibraryDownloadby John B Carlson•  226  Religion, Native American Religions, Comparative Religion, Mythology And FolkloreVoices of the RitualVoices of the Ritual analyzes the revival of and manifestation of rituals at female saint shrines in the Holy Land. The book’s central claim is that, in the Middle East, a turbulent, often violent political context, states tend to have no... moreVoices of the Ritual analyzes the revival of and manifestation of rituals at female saint shrines in the Holy Land. The book’s central claim is that, in the Middle East, a turbulent, often violent political context, states tend to have no clear physical borders, and lands are constantly at stake. In this context, deprived ethno-religious groups with no voice in the political, cultural, media, and legal arenas look for alternative venues to voice their entitlements. Through the book I argue that in Israel/Palestine, religious minorities (Jewish, Christian, Muslim, Druze, and others) employ rituals in various sacred places, especially female saints’ shrines, to claim their belonging to and appropriation of territory. At the heart of this book is the question: What does this female ritualistic revival mean—politically, culturally, and spatially? To answer this question, I base my analysis on a long ethnographic study (2003-2017) that analyzes the rise of female sacred shrines, focusing on four dimensions of the ritual: the body in motion, female materiality, place, and the rituals encrypted in the Israel/Palestine landscape. The book sets out to examine the popularity of body rituals in sacred places, and the female themes that stem from these rituals. I show that, in the practices at these shrines, mostly canonical, the idea of the “body in motion” is central, with rituals imitating birth and the cycle of life using a set of body gestures. These mimetic rituals, performed by men and women, are intimate forces that extend between the female saint and the worshippers. Female materiality strengthens intimacy and creates a bridge between the experience and the material. Minority groups in these venues, Jews and Christians, use these sacred shrines, their female contents and intimate bodily ritualistic experience, to stake a claim to and appropriate the land. The intimacy between saint and worshipper (females and males each in their own modes) created with the body that imitates the cycle of life, and the female material scattered around, are keys to intimate claims to the land, making the land familiar to worshippers. Rituals encrypt female themes into the landscape, a dynamic that is taking place in a zone that has for decades been dominated by violent, masculine-disseminated war and conflict.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nurit Stadler•  9  Cultural Studies, Social Theory, Landscape Architecture, Cultural TheoryOur current age: a liminal age?http://www.theomag.de/90/kdw1b.htmSave to LibraryDownloadby Kim de Wildt•  7  Cultural Studies, Ritual, Cultural Theory, LiminalityThe First Direct Evidence for the Production of Maya Blue: Rediscovery of a TechnologyMaya Blue is a colour that is more than a pigment; it had roles in status, ritual and performance, being daubed onto pots and people before sacrifice. Here researchers use experimental and historical evidence to discover how it was made,... moreMaya Blue is a colour that is more than a pigment; it had roles in status, ritual and performance, being daubed onto pots and people before sacrifice. Here researchers use experimental and historical evidence to discover how it was made, including direct scientific analysis of Maya Blue on a pot thrown into the sacred well at Chichén Itzá. The results indicate that the formation of the color was actually part of the ritual.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dean E Arnold and +1Gary Feinman•  159  Religion, History, Ethnohistory, ArchaeologyCommunal and Personal Hunting Shrines Around Lake Atitlan, GuatemalaSave to LibraryDownloadby Linda A. Brown•  16  Religion, Zooarchaeology, Ethnoarchaeology, Human RightsDaşbacak, C., "Hecate Cult in Anatolia; Rituals and Dedications in Lagina", Anados, 6-7/2006-2007, 143-148.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stratonikeia ve Lagina Kazısı•  4  HeKatE, Cult, Rituals, Lagina(Free E-Book) [Co-Edit & Proofread] 科大卫：明清社会和礼仪 David Faure, Ming-Qing Society and Rituals (Beijing: Beijing Normal University Press, 2016)Symposium Contents 1、宗族程式：16世纪的礼仪革命与帝制晚期中国的国家 “La Solution Lignagère: La Revolution Rituelle du XVIe Siècle et l’État Impérial Chinois,” Annales: Histoire, Sciences, Sociales 61:6 (2006), pp. 1291-1316. 2、人类学与中国近代社会史：影响与前景 Original... moreSymposium Contents1、宗族程式：16世纪的礼仪革命与帝制晚期中国的国家“La Solution Lignagère: La Revolution Rituelle du XVIe Siècle et l’État Impérial Chinois,” Annales: Histoire, Sciences, Sociales 61:6 (2006), pp. 1291-1316. 2、人类学与中国近代社会史：影响与前景Original Chinese article (“Anthropology and Pre-Modern Chinese Social History”), in 《东吴历史学报》，卷14（2005），页21-36。 3、十九世纪的天地会：一个解释“The Heaven and Earth Society in the Nineteenth Century,” in Kwang-Ching Liu and Richard Shek eds., Heterodoxy in Late Imperial China (Hawai’i: University of Hawai’i Press, 2004), pp. 365-392. 4、中国皇帝的非正式帝国：明代宗教与地方社会的整合“The Chinese Emperor’s Informal Empire: Religion and the Incorporation of Local Society in the Ming,” in Shu-min Huang and Cheng-kuang Hsu eds., Imagining China: Regional Division and National Unity (Nankang, Taipei: Institute of Ethnology, Academia Sinica, 1999), pp. 21-41. 5、明嘉靖初年广东提学魏校毁淫祠之前因后果及其对珠江三角洲的影响Original Chinese article (“The Cause and Effect of Destroying the Illegal Temples by Guangdong Education-intendant We Xiao in the Early Jiajing Reign and Its Influence toward the Pearl River Delta”), in 周天游编：《地域社会与传统中国》（西安：西北大学出版社，1995），页129-134。 6、皇帝在村：国家在华南地区的体现“The Emperor in the Village: Representing the State in South China,” in Joseph P. McDermott ed., State and Court Ritual in China (Cambridge, U.K.; New York: Cambridge University Press, 1999), pp. 267-298. 7、成文的和不成文的：成文族谱的政治议程“The Written and the Unwritten: The Political Agenda of the Written Genealogy,” in中研院近代史研究所编，《近世家族与政治比较历史论文集》（台北：中研院近代史研究所，1992）（上册），页261-296。 8、佛山如何成镇？明清时期中国城乡身份的演化“What Made Foshan a Town? The Evolution of Rural-Urban Identities in Ming-Qing China,” Late Imperial China 11. 2 (1990), pp. 1-31. 9、宗族是一种文化创造——以珠江三角洲为例“The Lineage as A Cultural Invention: The Case of the Pearl River Delta,” Modern China 15. 1, (1989), pp. 4-36. 10、宗族社会主义与公家掌控：1920和1930年代的潭冈乡“Lineage Socialism and Community Control: Tangang Xiang in the 1920s and 1930s,” in David Faure and Helen Siu eds., Down to Earth: the Territorial Bond in South China ( Palo Alto, CA: Stanford University Press, 1995), pp. 161-187. 11、告别华南研究Original Chinese article (“Time to Say Goodbye: A Reflection of the South China Study”), in 华南研究会编：《学步与超越﹕华南研究会论文集》（香港：文化创造出版社，2004），页9-30。 12、韦伯有所不知：明清时期中国的市镇与经济发展“What Weber Did Not Know: Towns and Economic Development in Ming and Qing China,” in David Faure and Tao Tao Liu eds., Town and Country in China: Identity and Perception (Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire; New York: Palgrave in association with St Antony’s College, Oxford, 2002), pp. 58-84. 13、山西夏县司马光墓的土地与宗族笔记“It Takes a Sage...: Notes on Land and Lineage at Sima Guang’s Grave in Xia County, Shanxi Province,” in《民俗曲艺》2001年第131期，页27-56。 14、动乱、官府与地方社会：读〈新开潞安府治记碑〉Original Chinese article (“Disturbance, Government, and the Local Society: Reading the Inscription of the Newly Establishing Seat of the Lu’an Prefecture”), in《中山大学学报》，2000年第2期，页66-73。 15、明中叶的瑶乱及其对瑶族的影响“The Yao Wars in the Mid-Ming and Their Impact on Yao Ethnicity,” in Pamela Kyle Crossley, Helen Siu, and Donald Sutton eds., Empire at the Margins: Culture, Ethnicity, and Frontier in Early Modern China (Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University of California Press, 2006), pp. 171-189. 16、祠堂与家庙：从宋末到明中叶宗族礼仪的演变Original Chinese article (“The Ancestral Hall and the Family Temple: The Evolution of the Lineage Ritual Practice from Late Song to Mid-Ming”), in《历史人类学学刊》第一卷第二期（2003），页1-20。 17、现代中国的国家与礼仪：评“民间社会”论争“State and Rituals in Modern China: Comments on the ‘Civil Society’ Debate,” in 王秋桂、庄英章、陈中民编：《社会、民族与文化展演国际研讨会论文集》（台北：汉学研究中心，2001），页509-535。 18、国家与礼仪：宋至清中叶珠江三角洲地方社会的国家认同Original Chinese article (“State and Rituals: The Integration of Local Society into the Chinese State in the Pearl River Delta from Northern Song to Mid-Qing”), in 《中山大学学报（社会科学版）》，1995年第5期（总第39期），页65-72。 (Edited by Boyi Chen)Save to LibraryDownloadby Boyi Chen (陈博翼) and +1Zigui Li•  16  Historical Anthropology, Ritual, Ming Dynasty, Social HistoryThe Dynamics of Changing Rituals: The Transformation of Religious Rituals within their Social and Cultural ContextMost ritual participants claim that their rituals have been the same since time immemorial. Citing recent research in ritual studies, this book illustrates how, on the contrary, rituals are often subject to dynamic changes. When do... moreMost ritual participants claim that their rituals have been the same since time immemorial. Citing recent research in ritual studies, this book illustrates how, on the contrary, rituals are often subject to dynamic changes. When do rituals change? When is the change accidental and when is it on purpose? Are certain kinds of rituals more stable or unstable than others? Which elements of rituals are liable to change and which are relatively stable? Who has the power to change rituals? Who decides to accept a change or not? The Dynamics of Changing Rituals attempts to address these questions within this new field of ritual studies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jens Kreinath and +4Alexander HennMichael StausbergPatricia EbreyConstance Hartung•  10  Social and Cultural Anthropology, Ritual, Study of Religions, Method and Theory in the Study of ReligionKlatsch als Übergangsritual in der Sozialen Arbeit – fernab ethischer Debatten?Der Beitrag berichtet aus einem laufenden Forschungsprojekt, welches Orte ritueller Praxen in einem ostdeutschen Jugendamt rekonstruiert. Dabei ergaben erste Erhebungen, dass gerade der Schwellenzustand zwischen professioneller... moreDer Beitrag berichtet aus einem laufenden Forschungsprojekt, welches Orte ritueller Praxen in einem ostdeutschen Jugendamt rekonstruiert. Dabei ergaben erste Erhebungen, dass gerade der Schwellenzustand zwischen professioneller Klientenbeziehung einerseits und teils diffuser Kollegenbeziehung andererseits der Ausgestaltung im Sinne eines Übergangsrituals bedarf. Die Mitarbeiter des untersuchten Feldes etablieren dieses in Form einer Klatschkultur, die Klientengespräche beidseitig rahmt. Im Folgenden soll nach dem symbolischen Bedeutungsgehalt und dieser Praxis in Bezug auf die Etablierung einer profes-sionellen Teamkultur gefragt werden. Außerdem werden ethischen Bedenken derselbigen zur Diskussion gestellt.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carolin Neubert•  3  Social Work, Professionalism, RitualsThe Identification of a Later Bronze Age Hoard at Barway, and consideration of the association between metalwork and causewaysA metalwork hoard dated to the Wilburton phase of the later Bronze Age, found at Barway close to the Isle of Ely in the Cambridgeshire Fens, is reported. Consideration of the hoard, in the context of later prehistoric hoarding in the... moreA metalwork hoard dated to the Wilburton phase of the later Bronze Age, found at Barway close to the Isle of Ely in the Cambridgeshire Fens, is reported. Consideration of the hoard, in the context of later prehistoric hoarding in the local landscape, reveals that particular sorts of artefacts were associated with particular places in the landscape. In particular a strong association between later Bronze Age hoards and causeways connecting the Isle of Ely to the outside world is identified, and an interpretation suggested. This study demonstrates the potential of a detailed contextual approach for providing a more nuanced understanding of later Bronze Age metalwork deposition that moves away from a simplistic wet-dry dichotomy.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Barrowclough•  163  European History, European Studies, Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology“The world is an oyster and Iran, the pearl”: Representations of Iran in Safavid Persian Travel LiteratureEuropean travel accounts have often been incorporated into scholarship on Safavid Iran as sources for historiography and ethnographic information. The study of previously underexplored travel narratives composed by Safavid Iranians,... moreEuropean travel accounts have often been incorporated into scholarship on Safavid Iran as sources for historiography and ethnographic information. The study of previously underexplored travel narratives composed by Safavid Iranians, although outnumbered by European accounts, foregrounds Persian travel writing as a self-referential and self-reﬂective source for Safavid and Shi‘i historiography. The image of Iran in Safavid narratives of travels, none of which were destined for Europe, emerges in close encounters with Iran’s neighbours in the Muslim world and beyond. Safavid travel narratives, as the site of self-inscription, reveal how Iranians envisaged Iran and their identity in the course of their travels within and outside Iran.   Ala Amjadi, Maryam Conference: The Idea of Iran: The Second Safavid CenturyLink: https://www.soas.ac.uk/lmei-cis/events/idea-of-iran/11may2019-the-idea-of-iran-the-second-safavid-century.htmlSave to LibraryDownloadby Maryam Ala Amjadi•  20  History, Travel Writing, Persian Literature, Early Modern HistoryJHWH in einem altägyptischen Zauberspruch?The article comprehends a discussion of a short invocation in Pap. New York 35.9.21, XXVII,8, in Pap. Brooklyn 47.218.138, x+XV,7, in Pap. Berlin P. 3037, rt. and on the eastern wall, H 2 of the temple in Hībis. It is shown that in this... moreThe article comprehends a discussion of a short invocation in Pap. New York 35.9.21,XXVII,8, in Pap. Brooklyn 47.218.138, x+XV,7, in Pap. Berlin P. 3037, rt. and on the eastern wall, H2 of the temple in Hībis. It is shown that in this egyptian ritual beneath the semitic passage ’e/ilka„Your (m.) Gott“, written in Hieroglyphics, also JHWH is mentioned in a short form of his name as Ywfor protection.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christoffer Theis•  40  Religion, Ancient Egyptian Religion, Comparative Religion, Jewish StudiesOn Neolithic funerary practicesSave to LibraryDownloadby Charpentier vincent•  114  Religion, Prehistoric Archaeology, Anthropology, DeathAmerica's Ancient Skywatchers (National Geographic Magazine)The Grolier Codex (Codice Maya de Mexico, CMM) is discussed in the context of the archaeoastronomy of the ancient Americas on pages 98-99 of the March 1990 National Geographic Magazine article "America's Ancient Skywatchers" by John B.... moreThe Grolier Codex (Codice Maya de Mexico, CMM) is discussed in the context of the archaeoastronomy of the ancient Americas on pages 98-99 of the March 1990 National Geographic Magazine article "America's Ancient Skywatchers" by John B. Carlson. One of four known ancient Maya books, the Grolier Codex depicts different manifestations of the planet Venus; the column of glyphs on the left of each panel records days in a 104-year Venus almanac. These plaster-coated bark-paper pages, carbon-dated to the 13th century, represent only half of the 20-page original. A numbered photographic arrangement of the Grolier Codex depictes the author's discovery that Codex pages 10 and 11 are actually two parts of the same "page 10".  Carlson clarifies the identities of Venus deities depicted in the Grolier Codex from a comparison of images from the Cacaxtla murals and links the images of the Grolier Codex with ancient Maya astronomically timed ritual warfare and sacrifice. (Grolier Codex photographs: Enrico Ferorelli; Other photos: Bob Sacha) This article has been posted on Academia.edu as part of the Grolier Codex Project of the Center for Archaeoastronomy under the directorship of John B. Carlson, Ph.D.  The Grolier Codex Project seeks to further advance the study of the Maya Grolier Codex.Save to LibraryDownloadby John B Carlson•  257  Religion, Native American Religions, Comparative Religion, Mythology And Folklore2012, Plaited Arts from the Borneo RainforestB. Sellato (ed.), Jakarta: The Lontar Foundation; Singapore: NUS Press; Copenhagen: Nordic Institute for Asian Studies Press, NIAS Studies in Asian Topics # 48; Honolulu: University of Hawai’i Press; 536 p., 1,260 photographs, index.... moreB. Sellato (ed.), Jakarta: The Lontar Foundation; Singapore: NUS Press; Copenhagen: Nordic Institute for Asian Studies Press, NIAS Studies in Asian Topics # 48; Honolulu: University of Hawai’i Press; 536 p., 1,260 photographs, index.  SEE INTRODUCTION, as 2012 "Art and Identity," in Miscellaneous section.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bernard  Sellato•  20  Ethnobotany, Material Culture Studies, Indigenous Knowledge, Ethnic IdentityMuslim Merit-making in Thailand's Far-south (Springer 2011)Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher M Joll•  107  Anthropology, Anthropological Linguistics, Historical Anthropology, Social AnthropologyIl Progetto internazionale "ARS" - Archaeological Research in Sardinia. Nuove ricerche archeologiche al tofet di Sulci, in S. Celestino Pérez, E. Rodríguez González (eds), A Journey between East  and West in the  Mediterranean, vol. II, 2020, 935-948Save to LibraryDownloadby Valentina Melchiorri•  18  Cultural Studies, Archaeology, Phonology, PhoeniciansNextLast »Related TopicsFolkFollowFollowingHealing CeremoniesFollowFollowingMalaysian Magic and FolkloreFollowFollowingBeliefs & ValuesFollowFollowingThe SensesFollowFollowingAfrican Popular CultureFollowFollowingArtsFollowFollowingExperienceFollowFollowingShamanismFollowFollowingDanceFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023