Dress codes Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Dress codes302 FollowersRecent papers in Dress codesTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleGods and Garments. Textiles in Greek Sanctuaries in the 7th to the 1st Centuries BCTextiles comprise a vast and wide category of material culture and constitute a crucial part of the ancient economy. Yet, studies of classical antiquity still often leave out this important category of material culture, partly due to the... moreTextiles comprise a vast and wide category of material culture and constitute a crucial part of the ancient economy. Yet, studies of classical antiquity still often leave out this important category of material culture, partly due to the textiles themselves being only rarely preserved in the archaeological record. This neglect is also prevalent in scholarship on ancient Greek religion and ritual, although it is one of the most vibrant and rapidly developing branches of classical scholarship. The aim of the present enquiry is, therefore, to introduce textiles into the study of ancient Greek religion and thereby illuminate the roles textiles played in the performance of Greek ritual and their wider consequences. Among the questions posed are how and where we can detect the use of textiles in the sanctuaries, and how they were used in rituals including their impact on the performance of these rituals and the people involved. Chapters centre on three themes: first, the dedication of textiles and clothing accessories in Greek sanctuaries is investigated through a thorough examination of the temple inventories. Second, the use of textiles to dress ancient cult images is explored. The examination of Hellenistic and Roman copies of ancient cult images from Asia Minor as well as depictions of cult images in vase-painting in collocation with written sources illustrates the existence of this particular ritual custom in ancient Greece. Third, the existence of dress codes in the Greek sanctuaries is addressed through an investigation of the existence of particular attire for ritual personnel as well as visitors to the sanctuaries with the help of iconography and written sources. By merging the study of Greek religion and the study of textiles, the current study illustrates how textiles are, indeed, central materialisations of Greek cult, by reason of their capacity to accentuate and epitomize aspects of identity, spirituality, position in the religious system, by their forms as links between the maker, user, wearer, but also as key material agents in the performance of rituals and communication with the divine.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cecilie Brøns•  10  Classical Archaeology, History of Dress, Ancient Religion, Ancient Greek ReligionDiplomatic Protocol & EtiquetteDiplomatic Protocol & Etiquette BasicsSave to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Dimitrios Kamsaris•  17  Diplomatic History, Public Diplomacy, Dress and identity, Cultural DiplomacyImpact of Female School Teachers’ Dress Code on Job Performances: A Cross-Sectional Study in Saga City, JapanThe dress is an integral part of a profession. The research focuses on the dress codes of school teachers in Japan. Japan has relaxed the dress norms of school teachers over the years from a traditional/formal dress to a casual dress. We... moreThe dress is an integral part of a profession. The research focuses on the dress codes of school teachers in Japan. Japan has relaxed the dress norms of school teachers over the years from a traditional/formal dress to a casual dress. We intended to examine if this change has a significant effect on the self-perceived job performance among school teachers in Japan with the purpose of seeking recommendations for many Asian countries like Sri Lanka in which traditional dress norms applied to teachers have not changed much or at all. A combined qualitative and quantitative study was conducted with three chosen prefectural schools in the Saga city, Japan. The qualitative study was a thematic analysis based on in-depth interviews with five selected school teachers. The quantitative study (n=30) was a descriptive cross-sectional study. A culturally validated, self-administered questionnaire was used to collect data on socio- demographic characteristics and dress code from the study sample...Save to LibraryDownloadby Padmasri Wanigasundara•  4  Psychology, Clothing, Job Performance, Dress codesCleavage in a Tank Top: Bodily Prohibition and the Discourses of School Dress CodesIn this article I explore the gendered assumptions in the new generation of dress codes that have swept through North American schools in response to how girls are dressing these days. Through a feminist poststructural examination of a... moreIn this article I explore the gendered assumptions in the new generation of dress codes that have swept through North American schools in response to how girls are dressing these days. Through a feminist poststructural examination of a particular case in Langley, British Columbia, I locate three contradictory discourses in one school's dress code policy that positioned girls as irresponsible, deviant, and in need of help. I argue that these discourses reproduce dominant and oppressive forms of gender and sexuality. I conclude by suggesting that much work remains to be done on the minutiae of school policies such as dress codes given that they contribute to how the student('s) body is thought about, looked at, and treated. Dans cet article, je me penche sur les hypothèses genrées sur lesquelles reposent les nouveaux codes vestimentaires qui ont été instaurés dans les écoles en Amérique du Nord en réaction à la tenue des filles de nos jours. Une étude féministe poststructurale d'un cas à Langley, en Colombie-Britannique a révélé trois discours contradictoires dans la politique vestimentaire d'une école où le code présentait les filles comme étant irréfléchies, déviantes et ayant besoin d'aide. Je propose que ces discours reproduisent les positions dominantes et abusives face à la sexualité et au rôle des hommes et des femmes. Je termine l'article en concluant qu'il reste beaucoup de travail à accomplir dans le domaine des politiques scolaires comme les codes vestimentaires étant donné que ceux-ci jouent un rôle dans la façon que l'on perçoit, regarde et aborde le corps des étudiants.Save to LibraryDownloadby Shauna Pomerantz•  4  Feminist Theory, Poststructuralism, Girlhood Studies, Dress codesWomen’s Dress and the Politics of Access to Political Representation in Contemporary TurkeyMale leaders have often used women's bodies and dress as a means to regulate their access to formal politics, including to national parliaments. Through an analysis of women's activism surrounding the expansion of headscarved women's... moreMale leaders have often used women's bodies and dress as a means to regulate their access to formal politics, including to national parliaments. Through an analysis of women's activism surrounding the expansion of headscarved women's access to the parliament during the 2011 parliamentary elections in Turkey, I argue that pious women's public protests against discriminatory actions of male leaders towards headscarved women's candidacy challenged the hegemonic symbolism surrounding the headscarf as articulated by both secularist and conservative religious forces. The consequent discourse shift offered a new perspective on women's sexuality in the public arena and brought secular and pious women's rights groups, who rarely saw eye to eye with one another, closer as they realised that imposed dress codes are vehicles for their exclusion from formal politics.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mona Tajali•  4  Women and Politics, Islamic feminism, Female Islamic Leadership, Dress codes‘The prison of the body’: school uniforms between discipline and governmentalityThis article asks what uniform practices in schools can tell us about how power functions through a comprehensive analysis of the uniform policies of all Scottish state secondary schools (n = 357)....Save to LibraryDownloadby Rachel Shanks•  9  Sociology, Governmentality, Michel Foucault, Foucault and educationDisciplining the Female Student Body: Consequential Transference in Arguments for School Dress CodesBased on an examination of news coverage from 2013 to mid-2018, this article analyzes rhetoric in favor of school dress code policies. I illustrate how women’s bodies are problematized in order to manifest grounds for regulating female... moreBased on an examination of news coverage from 2013 to mid-2018, this article analyzes rhetoric in favor of school dress code policies. I illustrate how women’s bodies are problematized in order to manifestgrounds for regulating female attire. By employing pragmatic lines of argument, pro-dress code rhetors foster what I term consequential transference. Because pragmatic arguments rely on identifying consequences, questions of agency are implicit, as presuppositions of who is responsible for the consequences are embedded into the fabric of the discourse. In this case, dress code defenders paint female immodesty as responsible for several harmful potentialities, including negative social judgments, sexual harassment, and the distraction of male students in the classroom. I assert that pragmatic argumentation is a serviceable tool for underwriting misogynistic culture because consequential transference warrants female regulation and punishment by diminishing the accountability of other actors.Save to LibraryDownloadby Meredith Neville-Shepard•  20  Communication, Rhetoric, Women's Studies, Feminist TheoryEWC661 - Acceptance of Dress Code Policy among UiTM Shah Alam Students (2018)This proposal is mainly to put forward the acceptance of dress code policy among undergraduate student in UiTM Shah Alam. The study has been conducted to evaluate the understanding of dress code policy among undergraduate students in UiTM... moreThis proposal is mainly to put forward the acceptance of dress code policy among undergraduate student in UiTM Shah Alam. The study has been conducted to evaluate the understanding of dress code policy among undergraduate students in UiTM Shah Alam. Furthermore, to investigate whether they were following the dress code policy or not plus to determine the effects of obeying dress code towards academic performance among undergraduate students in UiTM Shah Alam. These three objectives have been achieved by conducting a survey under English for Writing Report (EWC 661) subject on May 2018. The findings of the study were contributed by 150 students from Engineering, Applied Science, Communication and Media Studies, Laws and Academy of Contemporary Islamic Studies (ACIS) faculties which used to generalize the whole undergraduates’ students’ population in UiTM Shah Alam. All staffs included lecturers did not involve in this study. Each faculty have 30 representatives to answer the questionnaire. The questionnaire consisted of 18 questions that have been divided into 5 sections. The questionnaire was linked directly via google form. The survey was conducted from 5th May until 11th May 2018. Based on the research, 93 students accept and follow the dress code policy set by UiTM Shah Alam. Some of them did with their willingness and some with other reasons. 69 students agreed by not following the policy, affecting their study performances and 71 students said that dress code policy did not have any matter with study performance as they have their own reasons denied it. Moreover, students have been observed to follow dress code policy during CTU class due to sceptical view of the need to dress according to Islamic thought. In a nutshell, the study is well demonstrated the understanding of dress code policy, the acceptance and the effects of conforming dress code policy among undergraduates’ students in UiTM Shah Alam. Thus, it is relevant to implement dress code policy in UiTM Shah Alam. In order to pursue a comprehensive study and a good proposal, many recommendations required to be done by this study which including staffs and students for future improvement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nurlina  Syahiirah•  5  English, Report Writing, Dress codes, UITM SHAH ALAMFemale Nudity and Dress Codes in Pre-Colonial Nigeria: A Case Study of Nigerian Women, Through the ArchivesSave to LibraryDownloadby Egoyibo  Okoro•  13  History, Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Postcolonial StudiesForeign Mass Media and Dress Culture among Nigerian Students: A Study on the Level of Nigerian University Students' Exposure to Foreign Movie and its Influence on their Dress Code on CampusThis research examined the impact of exposure to foreign mass media content on dress culture among students of University of Maiduguri. The study aimed to determine the level of consumption of foreign mass media contents among the... moreThis research examined the impact of exposure to foreign mass media content on dress culture among students of University of Maiduguri. The study aimed to determine the level of consumption of foreign mass media contents among the students. The Cultural Imperialism theoretical perspective was adopted to explain the data. Using a quantitative survey research approach and purposive sampling technique, a sample of 200 respondents was drawn from the population of 37,943 undergraduate students of the university. The study suggests the existence of a high levels of the students' exposure to foreign movie contents. Therefore, this study concludes that students' exposure to foreign media content could have an impact on their dress patterns on campus. Hence, the study recommends that a course on Nigerian movie industry (e.g., Kannywood and Nollywood) focusing on the use of Nigerian local attire should be introduced into advanced level educational curriculums, the University managementSave to LibraryDownloadby Adamkolo M Ibrahim•  16  Communication, Media Studies, Mass Communication, MediaAn Icon of 1830: Liberty Guiding the PeopleSave to LibraryDownloadby David Bellos•  5  Art History, French History, Eugene Delacroix, Dress codesInvestigating Students' Awareness and Conformity towards University Dress CodeThe first impression is usually judged based on how a person ​is dressed. An individual who appears with smart, clean and neat dress could portray a positive image and good qualities to the onlookers. Thus, the physical or outward... moreThe first impression is usually judged based on how a person ​is dressed. An individual who appears with smart, clean and neat dress could portray a positive image and good qualities to the onlookers. Thus, the physical or outward appearance of students somehow reflects the students' inner values and eventually the image of the university. A preliminary survey conducted by researchers on 218 students revealed that more than 50 percent of them did not conform to the university dress code. In order to investigate the problem, researchers came out with this study which in specific aims to determine the level of students' awareness of university dress code and to identify factors contributing to the non-conformity of the dress code. Although the issues of dress code are not as much debated or studied as compared to students' achievements or academic issues in literature, studies and researches should be undertaken so long the problem persists. Data for the study was gathered through questionnaires from 146UiTM students who did not conform to the university dress code. The data was then analyzed using SPSS Version 20.0. The result showed that students are highly aware of the dress code policy and guidelines. However, despite their awareness, the majority of the students are found to disobey the dress code guidelines on most of the lecture days. Financial aspects are considered to be the strongest factor among the four predictor factors in influencing dress code non-conformity. The findings are hoped to be beneficial to assist university administrators in handling the issue and implementing effective dress code policy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nurul Nadia Abd Aziz and +1Mawarti Samsudin•  3  University, Appearance, Dress codesIMPACT OF FEMALE SCHOOL TEACHERS' DRESS CODE ON JOB PERFORMANCES: A CROSS-SECTIONAL STUDY IN SAGA CITY, JAPANThe study focuses on the dress codes of school teachers in Japan. Japan has relaxed the dress norms of school teachers over the years from a traditional/formal dress to a casual dress. We intended to examine if this change has a... moreThe study focuses on the dress codes of school teachers in Japan. Japan has relaxed the dress norms of school teachers over the years from a traditional/formal dress to a casual dress. We intended to examine if this change has a significant effect on the self-perceived job performance among school teachers in Japan with the purpose of seeking recommendations for many Asian countries like Sri Lanka in which traditional dress norms applied to teachers have not changed much or at all. A combined qualitative and quantitative study was conducted with three chosen prefectural schools in the Saga city, Japan. The quantitative study (n= 30) was a descriptive cross-sectional study which was done using a face, content and culturally validated self-administered questionnaire. The qualitative study was a thematic analysis based on indepth interviews conducted using a semi-structured questionnaire until saturation of themes (n=5). Self-perceived comfort level and effect of the dress code on performing their jobs were assessed on a set of given scenarios related to their profession. The responses were recorded on five-point Likert scales. The subjects aged from 26 to 61 years old (mean =44±8 years). Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test indicated that the self-reported mean comfort score for casual dress of 25.75 is significantly higher than that of Kimono (mean score =10.77, p=.000). Most respondents believed that their job performance could be affected by the way they dress. Indepth interviews revealed the casual dress is convenient and comfortable for the duties they perform over traditional Kimono. Thus, Japan being successful in relaxing dress norms while sustaining the quality of education and cultural values sets an example to the countries that are more concerned about embodying cultural symbols in the appearance of teachers rather than their convenience and efficiency.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lasni Buddhibhahika Jayasooriya•  3  Clothing, Job Performance, Dress codesBra-Free at Work: Ending Sexist and Illegal Dress CodesOne of the first things many women do when they get home from work is to take off their uncomfortable bra. For these women who suffer from bras, there’s good news. Change is busting out at the workplace that will create happier, healthier... moreOne of the first things many women do when they get home from work is to take off their uncomfortable bra. For these women who suffer from bras, there’s good news. Change is busting out at the workplace that will create happier, healthier working women.Legal decisions are concluding that employers cannot force women to wear clothing that men do not have to wear for the same job, just because they are female. This means the bra usage should be optional at work, and there needs to be a change in work culture to accommodate bra-free women.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sydney Ross Singer•  20  Gender Studies, Medical Anthropology, Women's Studies, Human RightsMediated Affect & Feminist Solidarity: Teens' using Twitter to challenge 'rape culture' in and around schoolTwitter is repeatedly positioned as a space of hostility for women with research identifying women being disproportionate targets of misogynist ‘e-bile’ and trolling. Social media in general is presented largely as a space of... moreTwitter is repeatedly positioned as a space of hostility for women  with research identifying women being disproportionate targets of misogynist ‘e-bile’ and trolling. Social media in general is presented largely as a space of distraction, and gendered and sexualised risk, addiction, and harm for young people evident in widespread mobile phone regulation and banning at secondary schools in UK and internationally. Use of Twitter amongst school aged children remains under-researched. In this brief chapter, we explore how despite the negative associations of Twitter with cyberbullying and ‘cyberhate’ this platform also offers the possibility of consciousness raising, solidarity and empowerment amongst young people. Specifically, we explore how teenaged feminist girls use the digital affordances of Twitter to connect their personal experiences of sexism and sexual harassment at school to wider cultural critiques of rape culture creating mediated affective solidarities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jessica  Ringrose•  15  Sociology of Education, Computer-Mediated Communication, Feminism, TwitterVIEWS OF TEACHERS AND STUDENTS ON THE “DRESS CODES” IN TURKEY: A CASE STUDYSave to LibraryDownloadby A. Seda Saracaloğlu•Dress codesCleavage in a Tank Top: Bodily Prohibition and the Discourses of School Dress CodesIn this article I explore the gendered assumptions in the new generation of dress codes that have swept through North American schools in response to how girls are dressing these days. Through a feminist poststructural examination of a... moreIn this article I explore the gendered assumptions in the new generation of dress codes that have swept through North American schools in response to how girls are dressing these days. Through a feminist poststructural examination of a particular case in Langley, British Columbia, I locate three contradictory discourses in one school’s dress code policy that positioned girls as irresponsible, deviant, and in need of help. I argue that these discourses reproduce dominant and oppressive forms of gender and sexuality. I conclude by suggesting that much work remains to be done on the minutiae of school policies such as dress codes given that they contribute to how the student(’s) body is thought about, looked at, and treated.Save to LibraryDownloadby Shauna Pomerantz•  6  Psychology, Feminist Theory, Poststructuralism, SexualityDressing the Part: Lesbian Style in the WorkplaceCorporate dress codes tend to adhere to a binary understanding of gender, and expression. Research was conducted in order to examine the factors that would contribute to corporate dress code policy could be more inclusive of the dress... moreCorporate dress codes tend to adhere to a binary understanding of gender, and expression. Research was conducted in order to examine the factors that would contribute to corporate dress code policy could be more inclusive of the dress behavior of LGBT women, in addition to examining the potential modifications to styles, and product offerings that apparel brands could instate in order to better target lesbian women as a market segment. Self-identifying, employed, LGBT women (n=76) working in a variety of industries participated in interviews, and an online survey focused on their personal gender expression, and how their sexual orientation translated into how they desired to dress in a professional setting. We hypothesized that LGBT women would prefer the option of dressing in a more masculine way while at work. While supported, the majority of the participants would prefer that menswear brands would target them as a market, as opposed to ladieswear firms.Keywords: lesbian, dress behavior, gender, dress code, work-environment, LGBTSave to LibraryDownloadby Matt  Porter and +1Ashton Cose•  5  Fashion Theory, Lesbian Studies, Dress and identity, WorkplaceDoes Dress Code In The Workplace MatterThe subject of dress code.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tima Melnychuk•Dress codesPortrétní galerie duchovních jako historický a ikonografický pramen k poznání kněžské disciplíny po Tridentském koncilu. Poznámky ke kněžským portrétům z diecézních sbírek / Portrait gallery of clerics as a historical and iconographic source (in Czech)Portrait gallery of clerics as a historical and iconographic source for understanding priestly discipline after the Council of Trent. Notes on priest portraits from diocesan collectionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Radek Martinek•  11  Portraits, Portraiture, Church History, Catholic Church HistoryEffect of Dress Code of Sri Lankan Female School Teachers on their Job PerformanceThe study examined how clothing of Sri Lankan female school teachers affects their job performances. A representative sample was selected among school teachers from Western and Central provinces. A Sequential Explanatory design... moreThe study examined how clothing of Sri Lankan female school teachers affects their job performances. A representative sample was selected among school teachers from Western and Central provinces. A Sequential Explanatory design integrating quantitative survey (n=100) along with qualitative interviews (n=15) and secondary data were used. Results revealed that evolution and current practices of female dress were more into promote nationalism/culture. Though the current dresses of Sri Lankan school teachers are the Saree (for Sinhalese and Tamil teachers) and Abaya (for Muslim teachers), the majority of the respondents preferred to wear casual dresses (54%). Wilcoxon Signed Rank test showed significant differences in terms of perceived comfort and performing given four tasks (washing, ironing, dressing and walking after dressed) in favour of casual dress over traditional dress. Thirty percent of respondents have faced accidents due to their current dress. Aforementioned suggested that, teaching and performing extra-curricular activities would be more productive if they wear casual dresses.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lasni Buddhibhahika Jayasooriya•  6  Learning and Teaching, Culture, Clothing, Job PerformanceDress Codes of Female Employees and their Job Performances in Sri LankaThe historical evolution of Sri Lankan female clothing shows that Sri Lankans have been more concerned about nationalism and cultural beliefs in deciding a suitable dress for women. Saree, which is also called Osari depending on the style... moreThe historical evolution of Sri Lankan female clothing shows that Sri Lankans have been more concerned about nationalism and cultural beliefs in deciding a suitable dress for women. Saree, which is also called Osari depending on the style one may wear it, is traditionally considered as the most suitable and decent dress for Sri Lankan women at work. In contrast, dress codes of many countries have evolved in favour of comfort, preferences and job performance based on research while there seems to be no such studies based on Sri Lanka. Filling this knowledge gap this paper investigates the impact of dress code on job performance of female employees in Sri Lanka through a comprehensive literature review. The study shows that relaxing dress norms in favour of the convenience of employees results in increased efficiency, productivity and satisfaction. The findings suggest that a dress code could be decided to ensure maximum job performance based on scientific grounds and individual preferences, not merely based on cultural factors.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lasni Buddhibhahika Jayasooriya•  4  Clothing, Job Performance, Dress codes, evalution of clothing‘The prison of the body’: School uniforms between discipline and governmentalityThis article asks what uniform practices in schools can tell us about how power functions through a comprehensive analysis of the uniform policies of all Scottish state secondary schools (n = 357). Against the backdrop of large-scale... moreThis article asks what uniform practices in schools can tell us about how power functions through a comprehensive analysis of the uniform policies of all Scottish state secondary schools (n = 357). Against the backdrop of large-scale shifts from disciplinary societies to ones dominated by 'neoliberal governmentality' identified by Foucault and others, we investigate how these modes of power seem to be entangled in school uniform policies. The analysis reveals the specification of detailed uniform policies that both homogenise, divide and hierarchise the school body, suggesting that disciplinary techniques are alive and well. However, in the justifications that schools provide, we see uniform policies framed not as a tool to enforce discipline, but rather as a technique for pupils to fashion themselves into respectable and employable future adults. We suggest the rise of a 'neoliberal governmentality' has shaped how schools justify their practices of control more than it has shaped the practices themselves.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jasper Friedrich and +1Rachel Shanks•  7  Governmentality, Michel Foucault, Foucault and education, School Uniforms2012 A Slave Does Not Wear Such a Garment!Save to LibraryDownloadby Cornelia Wunsch and +1F Rachel Magdalene•  17  Law, Assyriology, Legal History, SlaveryGimalay Ibragim Final —GP — копия — копияVarious state governments and educational institutions are introducing sensitive rules regarding implementation of the dress code, which gives rise to vehement criticisms from the student side. Nothing should be forcibly implemented on... moreVarious state governments and educational institutions are introducing sensitive rules regarding implementation of the dress code, which gives rise to vehement criticisms from the student side. Nothing should be forcibly implemented on anyone without any strong reason. High school students are quite mature enough to understand the gravity of the issue, so it was very important to find out their perception about various issues regarding dress code and school restrictions so as to understand its significance from student’s perspective.According to researches conducted by roskachestvo.gov.ru (roskachestvo.gov.ru, 2018), and discussions in the public of Kazakhstan, that topic now can be assessed as relevant. In 2016 Kazakhstan has signed special school uniform legislation (Kazakhstan school uniform act, 2016) that govern all recommendations and obligations on wearing school uniform in general education schools. This issue dramatically boosted the number of arguments about this topic.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ibragim Gimalay•  4  Education, Academics, School Uniforms, Dress codesGirls, style, and school identities: dressing the part... What is interesting then in this ethnographic study of girls&#x27; style is not so much what ... Through dress, through &quot;making dress rock&quot; by &quot;owning&quot; it, subjects form their own location on the ... theorizing... more... What is interesting then in this ethnographic study of girls&#x27; style is not so much what ... Through dress, through &quot;making dress rock&quot; by &quot;owning&quot; it, subjects form their own location on the ... theorizing does is to unhook girls from the more ordinary sense of performance (a superficial ...Save to Libraryby Emily F.  Henderson•  11  Sociology, Ethnography, Feminism, Judith ButlerHalil İbrahim Gürel, Leyla Şimşek-Rathke- " İSLAMCI " KİMLİĞİN POPÜLER KÜLTÜREL MÜCADELESİ: EHLİSÜNNET TV SOKAK RÖPORTAJLARI/ Popular Cultural Struggle of "Islamist" Identity: Ehlisünnet TV Street InterviewsBu çalışmada Ehlisünnet TV (yeni adıyla Ahsen TV) yayınları ele alınacak, buradaki " sokak röportajları " , " sokak gözlem ve kayıtları " ve yapımcılarının " sosyal deney " olarak adlandırdıkları " sokak röportajı görünümlü mizansenler "... moreBu çalışmada Ehlisünnet TV (yeni adıyla Ahsen TV) yayınları ele alınacak, buradaki " sokak röportajları " , " sokak gözlem ve kayıtları " ve yapımcılarının " sosyal deney " olarak adlandırdıkları " sokak röportajı görünümlü mizansenler " diyebileceğimiz bazı videolar çözümlenmeye ve yorumlanmaya çalışılacaktır. Ehlisünnet TV muhabirlerinin, İstanbul'un Nişantaşı, Bakırköy, Eyüp, Karagümrük ya da Taksim gibi çeşitli bölgelerinde özellikle İslami yaşam tarzı, seküler yaşam tarzı, değerler, kılık kıyafet meselelerini merkeze alarak, düzenli sokak röportajları gerçekleştirdikleri anlaşılmaktadır. Kendilerini " İslamcı " olarak tanımlayan ve gündelik hayatın İslami usullere göre düzenlenmesinden yana olduklarını açıkça ifade eden muhabirler, sokaklarda tartışmalı konular açarak bazen istedikleri noktaya gelebilmek için, adeta provokasyonu bir yöntem olarak tercih ederek görüşmeler yapmakta, sonra da aldıkları görüntüleri spekülatif başlıklarla yayınlamaktadırlar. Röportajlarında, sokaktaki insanlara özellikle de İslam ve yaşam tarzı konusunda çeşitli sorular soran muhabirlerin, " sosyal deney " dedikleri kurgu olduğu anlaşılan çekimleri ise belli bir amaçla, kendi benimsiyor göründükleri giyim kuşamı, sosyal ve siyasal görüşleri çevredeki insanlara onaylatacak şekilde planlandıkları anlaşılmaktadır.Save to LibraryDownloadby Moment  Dergi (Moment Journal) and +2Halil İbrahim GürelLeyla Şimşek Rathke•  5  Life Style, Islam, Dress codes, Ahsen TVAkademik Olmayan Beden“Bir bedeni akademik yapan nedir? Akademide dress code mu var? Bunları giymezsem akademi hep benden daha azını mı bekleyecek? Alana yerleşmiş ama benim politik sebeplerle sevmediğim insanları anmadan bilen biri olamaz mıyım? Kimlere... more“Bir bedeni akademik yapan nedir? Akademide dress code mu var? Bunları giymezsem akademi hep benden daha azını mı bekleyecek? Alana yerleşmiş ama benim politik sebeplerle sevmediğim insanları anmadan bilen biri olamaz mıyım? Kimlere referans verirsem akademik olurum? En akademik görüntü için, en az kadın mı olmam gerekiyor? Ya da akademik olmak için kadın olmamam mı gerekiyor?”Save to LibraryDownloadby Hilal Dalka•  3  The Body, Feminist Methodology, Dress codesTransgender 2 - trans dressing in workplaceSave to LibraryDownloadby Florensia Ratu P•  12  Law, Gender Studies, Women's Studies, SexualityRecherche féministe, adolescentes et sexualité : une relation ambiguëCette communication cible un problème récurrent dans la recherche féministe sur la sexualité adolescente : le traitement de la sexualité en termes de dangerosité, de risque et de maladie. Cette relation négative à la sexualité occulte le... moreCette communication cible un problème récurrent dans la recherche féministe sur la sexualité adolescente : le traitement de la sexualité en termes de dangerosité, de risque et de maladie. Cette relation négative à la sexualité occulte le désir féminin et crée un contexte favorable à la condamnation des modalités d’expression de la sexualité chez les adolescentes. Quelles sont les conséquences de ce problème ? Et pourquoi tant de tabous autour du plaisir et du désir féminins ? Même en adoptant une approche inclusive des voix des adolescentes, le risque demeure présent de nier le statut de sujet sexuel des adolescentes et de verser dans la moralisation ou la pathologisation. Or, cette incapacité de traiter la sexualité en termes positifs ne se pose-t-elle pas en contradiction au projet d’émancipation porté par le féminisme ? En soulevant le caractère ambigu de la relation entre féminisme, sexualité et adolescence, cette intervention vise moins la polémique que l’identification des malaises, des inconforts, des dilemmes et des ambivalences qui jalonnent la réalisation de travaux féministes sur des thématiques liées à la sexualité.Save to LibraryDownloadby Caroline Caron•  12  Gender and Sexuality, Feminist Research, Girls, Sexuality in Adolescence and Young AdulthoodAnalyzing the Effect of Cultural Counseling in the Process of Dress Code of Professional Students ofThe purpose of this project was to institutionalize the law of professional dress and ethics in the minds and behaviors of students and to avoid coercive and disciplinary confrontations and to determine the degree of students'... moreThe purpose of this project was to institutionalize the law of professional dress and ethics in the minds and behaviors of students and to avoid coercive and disciplinary confrontations and to determine the degree of students' satisfaction with the cultural counseling process. Materials and Methods: A council consisting of the Vice Chancellor for Education, the Vice Chancellor for Culture and Student Affairs of the University and the Secretary of the University Protection Staff, drafted the regulations for the cultural process of covering and professional ethics of students. Students who violated the regulations entered the process within a period of one month. A researcher-made questionnaire was developed to assess students' views on this process. The statistical population was students who violated the regulations and a number of students who did not violate the rules of professional ethics in the colleges. Data were entered and analyzed in SPSS19 software. Findings: It showed the appropriate effect of the process on reducing the number of students introduced to the Disciplinary Council and the rulings issued and the satisfaction of more than 80% of students with this process. Conclusion: The implementation of this process among students violating the code of professional ethics at Shiraz University of Medical Sciences reduced the number of rulings issued by the Disciplinary Council, behavioral and functional effectiveness, as well as greater student satisfaction. The use of this process in other institutions of higher education is recommended.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ali Riasati•  5  Culture, Counseling, Students, UniversityFemale Nudity and Dress Codes in Pre-Colonial Nigeria: A Case Study of Nigerian Women, Through the ArchivesSave to LibraryDownloadby Egoyibo  Okoro•  15  History, Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Feminist TheoryEffect of Dress Code of Sri Lankan Female School Teachers on their Job PerformanceThe study examined how clothing of Sri Lankan female school teachers affects their job performances. A representative sample was selected among school teachers from Western and Central provinces. A Sequential Explanatory design... moreThe study examined how clothing of Sri Lankan female school teachers affects their job performances. A representative sample was selected among school teachers from Western and Central provinces. A Sequential Explanatory design integrating quantitative survey (n=100) along with qualitative interviews (n=15) and secondary data were used. Results revealed that evolution and current practices of female dress were more into promote nationalism/culture. Though the current dresses of Sri Lankan school teachers are the Saree (for Sinhalese and Tamil teachers) and Abaya (for Muslim teachers), the majority of the respondents preferred to wear casual dresses (54%). Wilcoxon Signed Rank test showed significant differences in terms of perceived comfort and performing given four tasks (washing, ironing, dressing and walking after dressed) in favour of casual dress over traditional dress. Thirty percent of respondents have faced accidents due to their current dress. Aforementioned suggested that,...Save to LibraryDownloadby Padmasri Wanigasundara•  7  Psychology, Learning and Teaching, Culture, Clothing"La robe"Save to LibraryDownloadby Virginie Journiac•  6  Dress codes, Robe, Cagnes-sur-Mer, Haut-de-CagnesCleavage in a Tank Top: Bodily Prohibition and the Discourses of School Dress Codes... than other girls” (Vancouver Province, 1999, p. A19) and that “if the same shirt was worn by a different girl, it may not have been an issue” (Sieberg, 1999, p. B4). The principal of Pine Grove also noted that “on a different young... more... than other girls” (Vancouver Province, 1999, p. A19) and that “if the same shirt was worn by a different girl, it may not have been an issue” (Sieberg, 1999, p. B4). The principal of Pine Grove also noted that “on a different young woman, [the top] might reveal less cleavage” (p. B4 ...Save to Libraryby Shauna Pomerantz•  5  Feminist Theory, Poststructuralism, Sexuality, Girlhood StudiesCommunication Amidst Cultural Dichotomy within the Flight IndustryThe communication process can be difficult due to cultural differences, especially in a culturally diverse workplace. While everyone may speak the same language, lack of empathy and tolerance toward another of different sociocultural... moreThe communication process can be difficult due to cultural differences, especially in a culturally diverseworkplace. While everyone may speak the same language, lack of empathy and tolerance toward another ofdifferent sociocultural background could spell more trouble than language barrier. One miscommunication thattouch on the sensitivities of other cultures and beliefs could blow up into racial discord as it breaks the citizensinto proponents and opponents despite not being involved in the controversy directly. That is why in any decisionmakingprocess, it is imperative to also take into account cultural aspects and the meeting should involve decisionmakers from various cultural backgrounds, over and above leaders who are tactful, respects other people’scultures, and wise in managing conflicts.This study presents about a case whereby female Muslim flight attendants of a local airline service areprohibited from wearing the hijab or headscarf. Our finding is presented in many perspectives, such as women’srights. Female Muslims are always given the choice to don the headscarf or not so when certain rule iscommunicated without culturally considering them, the ruling went against their rights. Equally important, thisissue has also prompted the government to take action against the employer for the discriminatory policy underthe Employment Act and Labor Law. While corporate and commercial businesses in Malaysia are climbing upthe ladder of globalization, sometimes there are procedures that must be tailored to the norms of the socialenvironment around us whilst maintaining professionalism. Thus in the context of flight attendants’ dress code,cabin crew of local airline services should have an appropriate dress code that goes well with our local cultures.Apart from that, this paper suggests that in order to manage workforce diversity, employers and employeesneed to be aware and fully understand each and everyone’s cultures. As a result, the employees who made up ofa variety of ethnics will stay united, be more motivated to work and be able to achieve job satisfaction.Communication becomes more effective when people respect individual differences and be aware of culturaldiversity. In addition, women play a very important role in the well-being of family and national development.The government has also declared 2018 as Women Empowerment Year. Therefore, women who don headscarvesshould not be seen as any less worthy than women who don’t wear at their workplaces.The key solution to getting the better of this issue could be as simple as instilling mutual understandingand respect among ethnics in school. Civics and national studies should not be underestimated because theyprepare us to undergo works in culturally diverse workplaces in the future. Many teaching and learning institutionsproduce great leaders, but these leaders lack inclusive and cross-cultural communications.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sebastian Lee•  20  Religion, Communication, Intercultural Communication, Professional CommunicationWomen as Victims of GBV and Not Sources of GBV. The situation in ZambiaThere is a serious need to change societal attitudes that apportion blame to battered women for the violence that they face. Coupled with blaming the battered women for the violence is that society perceives Gender Based Violence (GBV)... moreThere is a serious need to change societal attitudes that apportion blame to battered women for the violence that they face. Coupled with blaming the battered women for the violence is that society perceives Gender Based Violence (GBV) especially amongst intimate partners as a private matter and as such it is individualized, and treated as a trivial matter. People have often focused on the battered women and give a blind eye to the perpetrators of such violence 1. In other words, a woman's conduct is under constant scrutiny when it comes to cases of GBV whilst little focus goes into examining the behavior that has been exhibited by the men 2. This way of scrutinizing GBV only furthers male domination, and women subordination towards men. The following analysis offers an insight from a Zambian perspective on the need to re-focus GBV against women from viewing them as sources of the violence to examining patriarchy attitudes which incite this violence. No woman wants to be beaten, raped or verbally assaulted. With this backdrop, there is a dire need to understand that no matter the provocation, a woman should not be subjected to sexual or physical violence. Appalling statements by traditional leaders have called for the State in Zambia to regulate how women dress because " it is what is contributing to…cases of rape and defilement " 3. Again, this way of understanding GBV " perpetuates the power of patriarchy " by furthering " sex-based exclusionary laws " aimed at controlling women as " subjects…to public regulation and control " 4. Additionally, it is imperative for Zambian men to stop looking at women as objects for sex and rather as women with the same significance and values as them. In relation to blaming women as the sources of GBV, there is also the constant blame that is directed towards the woman for " not leaving the relationship, in order to maintain that denial and refuse to confront issues of power " 5. In other words, women who face GBV will be admonished for continuing being in a relationship with their abuser whilst overlooking the political implications of GBV which is to repeatedly maintain men's superiority over women 6. Furthermore, the denial of power and the power of denial has some notable consequences when applied to the above. Men will often deny having power to maintain their superiority over women whilst women's power to deny any violence supports this power that men exert on them 7.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joel Msipu Phiri•  14  Violence, Human Rights Law, Human Rights, AfricaThe Rules of Courtly Dress & Regalia of 1672 AD: The Restored System of the Knights TemplarSave to Libraryby Professor Matthew Bennett, J.D., Ph.D., D.Sc., J.S.D., J.C.D.•  11  Anthropology of Dress, History of Dress, Medieval Dress, Military Orders,  Nobility Early Modern period.Vues, mais non entendues. Les adolescentes québécoises et l’hypersexualisationL’hypersexualisation a fait couler beaucoup d’encre au Québec, chez nos voisins du Sud et en Europe. Mais savons-nous seulement ce qu’en pensent les premières intéressées, les adolescentes ? Dans cet ouvrage, Caroline Caron analyse la... moreL’hypersexualisation a fait couler beaucoup d’encre au Québec, chez nos voisins du Sud et en Europe. Mais savons-nous seulement ce qu’en pensent les premières intéressées, les adolescentes ? Dans cet ouvrage, Caroline Caron analyse la controverse médiatique qui a animé le Québec au tournant des années 2000 en y confrontant les points de vue d’adolescentes québécoises francophones. Alimentée par le poststructuralisme et le féminisme postmoderne, la démarche méthodologique de l’auteure met en évidence les tensions et les dilemmes éthiques que pose au chercheur adulte la volonté de prendre véritablement au sérieux les propos des jeunes. Cette démarche innovatrice illustre aussi la productivité heuristique d’une posture critique en recherche. Inaudibles jusqu’à tout récemment, les voix des adolescentes révèlent, dans cette étude, une facette méconnue et troublante de la controverse : dans les milieux scolaires, la notion d’hypersexualisation a eu pour effet d’intensifier la régulation du corps et de la sexualité féminine adolescente. Pareil constat soulève des enjeux sociaux relatifs à la problématisation grandissante du social par l’expertise scientifique et professionnelle. La contribution méthodologique, théorique et empirique que livre Caroline Caron dans cet ouvrage saura alimenter la réflexion des chercheurs, éducateurs, parents et étudiants des sciences sociales sur un des sujets les plus controversés et les plus sensibles de notre époque.Save to Libraryby Caroline Caron•  24  Gender and Sexuality, Feminist Media Studies, Québec Studies, Sexuality and MediaD’être non musulman en Iran, une question d’identitéLes non musulmans habitaient au sein de la société musulmane en Iran pendant XIXe et XXe siècles. Mais était-ce un vrai mélange ou seulement un partage de la terre sans rien d’autre en commun ? Il y avait des frontières visibles et... moreLes non musulmans habitaient au sein de la société musulmane en Iran pendant XIXe et XXe siècles. Mais était-ce un vrai mélange ou seulement un partage de la terre sans rien d’autre en commun ? Il y avait des frontières visibles et invisibles entre eux, néanmoins, comme d’autres frontières, celles-ci étaient imprécises et parfois inconnues. Les musulmans voulaient donc se différencier des non musulmans, des « autres », pour les raisons diverses, y compris pour les mieux contrôler. Les non musulmans voulaient créer leur propre communauté (communauté de « nous ») pour leur sécurité et s’éloigner des musulmans pour réduire des troubles.  L’ensemble de tout ce qu’on faisait avec ces groupes et qu’on forçait à faire permettait une identification. Comment identifiait-on les non musulmans dans la société musulmane iranienne ? Cet article étudie les éléments qui aidaient la communauté musulmane à identifier les non musulmans ; les quartiers séparés, les vêtements différents, les métiers, etc.,  et les éléments que les non musulmans employaient pour se distinguer d’autres ; la langue, les institutions, etc. Il va également regarder les codes qui venaient de toutes ces distinctions et leurs conséquences. L’article étudie également l’influence de la révolution Constitutionnelle de 1906 sur cette situation ; une révolution après laquelle l’Iran a eu son premier parlement et a essayé d’établir sa Constitution d’après l’égalité des Iraniens.Save to Libraryby Saghar  Sadeghian•  12  Modern History, Self and Identity, Identity (Culture), Iranian Jewsלמה כובע? – על חליפות, רעלות וכוחה של המדינה באיראן תחת רזא שאהSave to Libraryby Sivan Balslev•  5  Iranian Studies, History of Iran, Dress codes, FashionRelated TopicsCurriculum and AssessmentFollowFollowingEugene DelacroixFollowFollowingJuly RevolutionFollowFollowingValues EducationFollowFollowingCurriculum DevelopmentFollowFollowingCritical ThinkingFollowFollowingFrench HistoryFollowFollowingJacques-Louis DavidFollowFollowingArt HistoryFollowFollowingSociology of DressFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023