Learn a language with Omniglot!
&
Gymglish creates fun, personalized online language courses:
      
        English,
        Spanish,
        German,
        Italian,
        French lessons and more.
      
      Our goal: your motivation, participation and progress.
    
Our language courses
French lessons online
  
    
          
    More info
  
        
French lessons for native speakers
  
    
          
    More info
  
        
Spanish lessons online
  
    
          
    More info
  
        
German lessons online
  
    
          
    More info
  
        
Italian lessons online
  
    
          
    More info
  
        
Our goal: your motivation
A daily lesson delivered straight to your inbox or app.
    
Microlearning Only 10 minutes per day (easy to fit in any busy schedule).
    
A story Funny stories with up-to-date topics and authentic cultural references.
    
Adaptive learning Personalized content that takes into account the impact of time and forgetfulness.
    
A story
Learning a language isn't simply learning a list of words or a set of rules - language is also culture. For each one of our language courses (English lessons, French lessons, Spanish lessons, German lessons, etc.), we include diverse characters and personalities, various accents, professional and personal situations, all with a touch of humor.
        Using humor in our storytelling not only motivates the learner and stimulates memorization, but also addresses the great number of different ways we communicate, work and live together.
      
Motivation
With a diversity of content, Gymglish motivates and encourages its users to continue their progress by making e-learning as fun as possible.
Memorization
To consolidate acquired knowledge, our learning method takes into account our natural tendency to forget things over time. For long-term memorization, our system designs an optimized revision schedule for each student.
Certificate of completion
Once you’ve completed at least six months of lessons, you’ll receive a certificate of completion detailing your level, progress and participation rate. You'll also see information about your past progress and future revision needs.
  
Online Help Center
-
Privacy policy
-
Terms of use