Gujarati language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Old Gujarati
1.2Middle Gujarati
1.3Modern Gujarati (1800–present)
2Demographics and distribution
Toggle Demographics and distribution subsection
2.1Official status
3Dialects
4Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
4.1Vowels
4.2Consonants
5Writing system
6Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
6.1Categorisation and sources
6.1.1Tadbhav
6.1.2Tatsam
6.1.3Perso-Arabic
6.1.4English
6.1.5Portuguese
6.2Loans into English
7Grammar
8Sample text
9See also
10References
11Bibliography
12External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Gujarati language
110 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛअंगिकाالعربيةAragonésঅসমীয়াAsturianuAzərbaycancaBasa BaliবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяभोजपुरीБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGalegoગુજરાતી客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HausaՀայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIgboবিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরীBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡქართულიKiswahiliКомиLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureMagyarमैथिलीМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanଓଡ଼ିଆOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀपालिپنجابیPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийसंस्कृतम्ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsSimple EnglishسنڌيکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaతెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt吴语粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Indo-Aryan language
Gujaratiગુજરાતી or GujaratiThe word "Gujarati" in Gujarati scriptPronunciation[ɡudʒəˈɾɑːtiː]Native toIndiaRegionGujarat (India)
Karachi (Pakistan)EthnicityGujaratisNative speakersL1: 57 million (2011)[1]L2 speakers: 5.0 million[1]Language familyIndo-European
Indo-IranianIndo-AryanWestern[2]Gujarati languagesGujaratiEarly formsShauraseni Prakrit
Gurjar Apabhraṃśa
Old Gujarati
Middle Gujarati
Writing systemGujarati script (official)Gujarati BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language in India
Gujarat
Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (additional)
Recognised minoritylanguage in South Africa (protected language)[3]Regulated byGujarat Sahitya Akademi, Government of GujaratLanguage codesISO 639-1guISO 639-2gujISO 639-3gujGlottologguja1252Linguasphere59-AAF-hMap of the Gujarati language. Light red are regions with significant minorities, dark red a majority or plurality
Part of a series on
Constitutionally recognised languages of India
Category
22 Official Languages of the Indian Republic
Assamese
Bengali
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Hindi
Kannada
Kashmiri
Konkani
Maithili
Malayalam
Marathi
Meitei (Manipuri)
Nepali
Odia
Punjabi
Sanskrit
Santali
Sindhi
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Related
Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of India
Official Languages Commission
Classical Languages of India
List of languages by number of native speakers in India
 Asia portal
 India portal
 Language portal
 Politics portal
Gujarati (/ˌɡʊdʒəˈrɑːti/ GUUJ-ə-RAH-tee;[4] Gujarati script: ગુજરાતી, romanized: Gujarātī, pronounced [ɡudʒəˈɾɑːtiː]) is an Indo-Aryan language native to the Indian state of Gujarat and spoken predominantly by the Gujarati people. Gujarati is descended from Old Gujarati (c. 1100–1500 CE). In India, it is one of the 22  scheduled languages of the Union. It is also the official language in the state of Gujarat, as well as an official language in the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. As of 2011, Gujarati is the 6th most widely spoken language in India by number of native speakers, spoken by 55.5 million speakers which amounts to about 4.5% of the total Indian population.[5] It is the 26th most widely spoken language in the world by number of native speakers as of 2007.[6]
Outside of Gujarat,[7] Gujarati is spoken in many other parts of South Asia by Gujarati migrants, especially in Mumbai and Pakistan (mainly in Karachi).[8] Gujarati is also widely spoken in many countries outside South Asia by the Gujarati diaspora. In North America, Gujarati is one of the fastest-growing and most widely spoken Indian languages in the United States and Canada.[9][10] In Europe, Gujaratis form the second largest of the British South Asian speech communities, and Gujarati is the fourth most commonly spoken language in the UK's capital London.[11] Gujarati is also spoken in Southeast Africa, particularly in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and South Africa.[1][12][13] Elsewhere, Gujarati is spoken to a lesser extent in Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia, and Middle Eastern countries such as Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates.[1][14][15]
History[edit]
1666 manuscript of a 6th-century Jain Prakrit text with a 1487 commentary in Old Gujarati
Gujarati (sometimes spelled Gujerati, Gujarathi, Guzratee, Guujaratee, Gujrathi, and Gujerathi)[1][16] is a modern Indo-Aryan (IA) language evolved from Sanskrit. The traditional practice is to differentiate the IA languages on the basis of three historical stages:[16]
Old IA (Vedic and Classical Sanskrit)
Middle IA (various Prakrits and Apabhramshas)
New IA (modern languages such as Hindi, Punjabi, Bengali, etc.)
Another view postulates successive family tree splits, in which Gujarati is assumed to have separated from other IA languages in four stages:[17]
IA languages split into Northern, Eastern, and Western divisions based on the innovate characteristics such as plosives becoming voiced in the Northern (Skt. danta "tooth" > Punj. dānd) and dental and retroflex sibilants merging with the palatal in the Eastern (Skt. sandhya "evening" > Beng. śājh).[18]
Western, into Central and Southern.
Central, in Gujarati/Rajasthani, Western Hindi, and Punjabi/Lahanda/Sindhi, on the basis of innovation of auxiliary verbs and postpositions in Gujarati/Rajasthani.[16]
Gujarati/Rajasthani into Gujarati and Rajasthani through development of such characteristics as auxiliary ch- and the possessive marker -n- during the 15th century.[19]
The principal changes from Sanskrit are the following:[17]
Phonological
Loss of original phonemic length for vowels
Change of consonant clusters to geminate and then to single consonants (with compensatory vowel length)
Sanskrit
Prakrit
Gujarati
English
Ref
hasta
hattha
hāth
hand
[20]
sapta
satta
sāt
seven
[21]
aṣṭā
aṭṭha
āṭh
eight
[22]
sarpa
sappa
sāp
snake
[23]
Morphological
Reduction in the number of compounds
Merger of the dual with plural
Replacement of case affixes by postpositions
Development of periphrastic tense/voice/mood constructions
Syntax
Split ergativity
More complex agreement system
Gujarati is then customarily divided into the following three historical stages:[16]
Old Gujarati[edit]
Main article: Old Gujarati
Old Gujarātī (જૂની ગુજરાતી; 1200 CE–1500 CE), the ancestor of modern Gujarati and Rajasthani,[24] was spoken by the Gurjars, who were residing and ruling in Gujarat, Punjab, Rajputana, and central India.[25][26] The language was used as literary language as early as the 12th century. Texts of this era display characteristic Gujarati features such as direct/oblique noun forms, postpositions, and auxiliary verbs.[27] It had three genders, as Gujarati does today, and by around the time of 1300 CE, a fairly standardized form of this language emerged. While generally known as Old Gujarati, some scholars prefer the name Old Western Rajasthani, based upon the argument that Gujarati and Rajasthani were not yet distinct. Factoring into this preference was the belief that modern Rajasthani sporadically expressed a neuter gender, based on the incorrect conclusion that the [ũ] that came to be pronounced in some areas for masculine [o] after a nasal consonant was analogous to Gujarati's neuter [ũ].[28] A formal grammar, Prakrita Vyakarana, of the precursor to this language, Gurjar Apabhraṃśa, was written by Jain monk and eminent scholar Acharya Hemachandra Suri in the reign of Chaulukya king Jayasimha Siddharaja of Anhilwara (Patan).[29]
Middle Gujarati[edit]
Main article: Middle Gujarati language
Modern Gujarati (1800–present)[edit]
A page from the Gujarati translation of Dabestan-e Mazaheb prepared and printed by Fardunjee Marzban (25 December 1815)
A major phonological change was the deletion of final ə, such that the modern language has consonant-final words. Grammatically, a new plural marker of -o developed.[30] In literature, the third quarter of the 19th century saw a series of milestones for Gujarati, which previously had verse as its dominant mode of literary composition.[31] In 1920s, the efforts to standardise Gujarati were carried out.[32]
Demographics and distribution[edit]
Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Mahatma Gandhi were both native Gujarati speakers[33][34] but the former one advocated for the use of Urdu.
India Square, or Little Gujarat, in Bombay, Jersey City, New Jersey, just outside New York City
Of the approximately 62 million speakers of Gujarati in 2022, roughly 8 million resided in India, 250,000 in Tanzania, 210,000 in Kenya and by thousands in Pakistan. Many Gujarati speakers in Pakistan are shifting to Urdu.[1] However, Gujarati community leaders in Pakistan claim that there are 3 million Gujarati speakers in Karachi.[35]
Mahatma Gandhi used Gujarati to serve as a medium of literary expression. He helped to inspire a renewal in its literature,[36] and in 1936 he introduced the current spelling convention at the Gujarati Literary Society's 12th meeting.[37][38]
Some Mauritians and many Réunion islanders are of Gujarati descent and some of them still speak Gujarati.[39]
A considerable Gujarati-speaking population exists in North America, especially in the New York City Metropolitan Area and in the Greater Toronto Area, which have over 100,000 speakers and over 75,000 speakers, respectively, but also throughout the major metropolitan areas of the United States and Canada. According to the 2016 census, Gujarati is the fourth most-spoken South Asian language in Toronto after Hindustani, Punjabi and Tamil.
The UK has over 200,000 speakers, many of them situated in the London area, especially in North West London, but also in Birmingham, Manchester, and in Leicester, Coventry, Rugby, Bradford and the former mill towns within Lancashire. A portion of these numbers consists of East African Gujaratis who, under increasing discrimination and policies of Africanisation in their newly independent resident countries (especially Uganda, where Idi Amin expelled 50,000 Asians), were left with uncertain futures and citizenships. Most, with British passports, settled in the UK.[36][40] Gujarati is offered as a GCSE subject for students in the UK.
Some Gujarati parents in the diaspora are not comfortable with the possibility that their children will not be fluent in the language.[41] In a study, 80% of Malayali parents felt that "Children would be better off with English", compared to 36% of Kannada parents and only 19% of Gujarati parents.[41]
Besides being spoken by the Gujarati people, many non-Gujarati residents of Gujarat also speak it, among them the Kutchis (as a literary language),[36] the Parsis (adopted as a mother tongue), and Hindu Sindhi refugees from Pakistan.[42]
Official status[edit]
Gujarati is one of the twenty-two official languages and fourteen regional languages of India. It is officially recognised in the state of Gujarat and the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
Gujarati is recognised and taught as a minority language in the states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu and the union territory of Delhi.[43]
See also: States of India by Gujarati speakers
Dialects[edit]
According to British historian and philologist William Tisdall, who was an early scholar of Gujarati grammar, three major varieties of Gujarati exist: a standard 'Hindu' dialect, a 'Parsi' dialect and a 'Muslim' dialect.[44]
However, Gujarati has undergone contemporary reclassification with respect to the widespread regional differences in vocabulary and phrasing; notwithstanding the number of poorly attested dialects and regional variations in naming.
Standard Gujarati: this forms something of a standardised variant of Gujarati across news, education and government. It is also spoken in pockets of Maharashtra. The varieties of it include Mumbai Gujarati, Nagari.
Saurashtra: spoken primarily by the Saurashtrians who migrated from the Lata region of present-day Gujarat to Southern India in the Middle Ages. Saurashtra is closely related to Gujarati and the older dialects of Rajasthani and Sindhi. The script of this language is derived from the Devanagari script and shares similarities with modern-day Gujarati.
Amdawadi Gujarati: spoken primarily in Ahmedabad and the surrounding regions, in addition to Bharuch and Surat, where it is colloquially known as 'Surati'. The varieties of it include Ahmedabad Gamadia, Anawla, Brathela, Charotari, Eastern Broach Gujarati, Gramya, Patani, Patidari, Surati, Vadodari.
Kathiawari: a distinctive variant spoken primarily in the Kathiawar region and subject to significant Sindhi influence. The varieties of it include Bhavnagari, Gohilwadi, Holadi/Halari, Jhalawadi, Sorathi.
Kharwa, Kakari and Tarimuki (Ghisadi) are also often cited as additional varieties of Gujarati.
Parsi: spoken by the Zoroastrian Parsi minority. This highly distinctive variety has been subject to considerable lexical influence by Avestan, the liturgical Zoroastrian language.
Lisan ud-Dawat: spoken primarily by Gujarati Muslim Bohra communities, it has been subject to greater lexical influence by Arabic and Persian and is written in the Arabic script.
Kutchi is often referred to as a dialect of Gujarati, but most linguists consider it closer to Sindhi.[citation needed] In addition, the Memoni is related to Gujarati, albeit distantly.[1][45]
Furthermore, words used by the native languages of areas where the Gujarati people have become a diaspora community, such as East Africa (Swahili), have become loanwords in local dialects of Gujarati.[46]
The Linguistic Survey of India noted nearly two dozen dialects of Gujarati: Standard, Old, Standard Ahmedabad, Standard Broach, Nāgarī, Bombay, Suratī, Anāvla or Bhāṭelā, Eastern Broach, Pārsī, Carotarī, Pāṭīdārī, Vaḍodarī, Gāmaḍiā of Ahmedabad, Paṭanī, Thar and Parkar, Cutch, Kāṭhiyāvāḍī, Musalmān (Vhorāsī and Kharwā), Paṭṇulī, Kākarī, and Tārīmukī or Ghisāḍī.[47]
See also: Gujarati languages
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Gujarati phonology
Vowels[edit]
Front
Central
Back
Close
i
u
Close-mid
e
ə
o
Open-mid
ɛ
ɔ
Open
(æ)
ɑ
Consonants[edit]
Consonants
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Retroflex
Post-alv./Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɳ
ɲ
Stop/Affricate
voiceless
p
t
ʈ
tʃ
k
voiced
b
d
ɖ
dʒ
ɡ
aspirated
pʰ
tʰ
ʈʰ
tʃʰ
kʰ
murmured
bʱ
dʱ
ɖʱ
dʒʱ
ɡʱ
Fricative
voiceless
(f)
s
ʃ
voiced
(z)
ɦ
Approximant
ʋ
l
ɭ̆[48]
j
Flap
ɾ
Writing system[edit]
Main articles: Gujarati alphabet and Gujarati braille
Similar to other Nāgarī writing systems, the Gujarati script is an abugida. It is used to write the Gujarati and Kutchi languages. It is a variant of the Devanāgarī script, differentiated by the loss of the characteristic horizontal line running above the letters and by a small number of modifications in the remaining characters.
Vocabulary[edit]
Categorisation and sources[edit]
These are the three general categories of words in modern Indo-Aryan: tadbhav, tatsam, and loanwords.[49]
Tadbhav[edit]
તદ્ભવ tadbhava, "of the nature of that". Gujarati is a modern Indo-Aryan language descended from Sanskrit (old Indo-Aryan), and this category pertains exactly to that: words of Sanskritic origin that have demonstratively undergone change over the ages, ending up characteristic of modern Indo-Aryan languages specifically as well as in general. Thus the "that" in "of the nature of that" refers to Sanskrit. They tend to be non-technical, everyday, crucial words; part of the spoken vernacular. Below is a table of a few Gujarati tadbhav words and their Old Indo-Aryan sources:
Old Indo-Aryan
Gujarati
Ref
I
ahám
hũ
[50]
falls, slips
khasati
khasvũ
to move
[51]
causes to move
arpáyati
āpvũ
to give
[52]
attains to, obtains
prāpnoti
pāmvũ
[53]
tiger
vyāghrá
vāgh
[54]
equal, alike, level
samá
samũ
right, sound
[55]
all
sárva
sau/sav
[56]
Tatsam[edit]
તત્સમ tatsama, "same as that". While Sanskrit eventually stopped being spoken vernacularly, in that it changed into Middle Indo-Aryan, it was nonetheless standardised and retained as a literary and liturgical language for long after. This category consists of these borrowed words of (more or less) pure Sanskrit character. They serve to enrich Gujarati and modern Indo-Aryan in its formal, technical, and religious vocabulary. They are recognisable by their Sanskrit inflections and markings; they are thus often treated as a separate grammatical category unto themselves.
Tatsam
English
Gujarati
lekhak
writer
lakhnār
vijetā
winner
jītnār
vikǎsit
developed
vikǎselũ
jāgǎraṇ
awakening
jāgvānũ
Many old tatsam words have changed their meanings or have had their meanings adopted for modern times. પ્રસારણ prasāraṇ means "spreading", but now it is used for "broadcasting". In addition to this are neologisms, often being calques. An example is telephone, which is Greek for "far talk", translated as દુરભાષ durbhāṣ. Most people, though, just use ફોન phon and thus neo-Sanskrit has varying degrees of acceptance.
So, while having unique tadbhav sets, modern IA languages have a common, higher tatsam pool. Also, tatsams and their derived tadbhavs can also co-exist in a language; sometimes of no consequence and at other times with differences in meaning:
Tatsam
Tadbhav
karma
Work—Dharmic religious concept of works or deeds whose divine consequences are experienced in this life or the next.
kām
work [without any religious connotations].
kṣetra
Field—Abstract sense, such as a field of knowledge or activity; khāngī kṣetra → private sector. Physical sense, but of higher or special importance; raṇǎkṣetra → battlefield.
khetar
field [in agricultural sense].
What remains are words of foreign origin (videśī), as well as words of local origin that cannot be pegged as belonging to any of the three prior categories (deśaj). The former consists mainly of Persian, Arabic, and English, with trace elements of Portuguese and Turkish. While the phenomenon of English loanwords is relatively new, Perso-Arabic has a longer history behind it. Both English and Perso-Arabic influences are quite nationwide phenomena, in a way paralleling tatsam as a common vocabulary set or bank. What's more is how, beyond a transposition into general Indo-Aryan, the Perso-Arabic set has also been assimilated in a manner characteristic and relevant to the specific Indo-Aryan language it is being used in, bringing to mind tadbhav.
Perso-Arabic[edit]
See also: Persian language in the Indian subcontinent
India was ruled for many centuries by Persian-speaking Muslims, amongst the most notable being the Delhi Sultanate, and the Mughal dynasty. As a consequence Indian languages were changed greatly, with the large scale entry of Persian and its many Arabic loans into the Gujarati lexicon. One fundamental adoption was Persian's conjunction "that", ke. Also, while tatsam or Sanskrit is etymologically continuous to Gujarati, it is essentially of a differing grammar (or language), and that in comparison while Perso-Arabic is etymologically foreign, it has been in certain instances and to varying degrees grammatically indigenised. Owing to centuries of situation and the end of Persian education and power, (1) Perso-Arabic loans are quite unlikely to be thought of or known as loans, and (2) more importantly, these loans have often been Gujarati-ized. dāvo – claim, fāydo – benefit, natījo – result, and hamlo – attack, all carry Gujarati's masculine gender marker, o. khānũ – compartment, has the neuter ũ. Aside from easy slotting with the auxiliary karvũ, a few words have made a complete transition of verbification: kabūlvũ – to admit (fault), kharīdvũ – to buy, kharǎcvũ – to spend (money), gujarvũ – to pass. The last three are definite part and parcel.
Below is a table displaying a number of these loans. Currently some of the etymologies are being referenced to an Urdu dictionary so that Gujarati's singular masculine o corresponds to Urdu ā, neuter ũ groups into ā as Urdu has no neuter gender, and Urdu's Persian z is not upheld in Gujarati and corresponds to j or jh. In contrast to modern Persian, the pronunciation of these loans into Gujarati and other Indo-Aryan languages, as well as that of Indian-recited Persian, seems to be in line with Persian spoken in Afghanistan and Central Asia, perhaps 500 years ago.[57]
Nouns
Adjectives
m
n
f
fāydo
gain, advantage, benefit
A
[58]
khānũ
compartment
P
[59]
kharīdī
purchase(s), shopping
P
[60]
tājũ
fresh
P
[61]
humlo
attack
A
[62]
makān
house, building
A
[63]
śardī
common cold
P
[64]
judũ
different, separate
P
[65]
dāvo
claim
A
[66]
nasīb
luck
A
[67]
bāju
side
P
[68]
najīk
near
P
[69]
natījo
result
A
[70]
śaher
city
P
[71]
cījh
thing
P
[72]
kharāb
bad
A
[73]
gusso
anger
P
[74]
medān
plain
P
[75]
jindgī
life
P
[76]
lāl
red
P
[77]
Lastly, Persian, being part of the Indo-Iranian language family as Sanskrit and Gujarati are, met up in some instances with its cognates:[78]
Persian
Indo-Aryan
English
marăd
martya
man, mortal
stān
sthān
place, land
ī
īya
(adjectival suffix)
band
bandh
closed, fastened
Zoroastrian Persian refugees known as Parsis also speak an accordingly Persianized form of Gujarati.[79]
English[edit]
With the end of Perso-Arabic inflow, English became the current foreign source of new vocabulary. English had and continues to have a considerable influence over Indian languages. Loanwords include new innovations and concepts, first introduced directly through British colonial rule, and then streaming in on the basis of continued Anglophone dominance in the Republic of India. Besides the category of new ideas is the category of English words that already have Gujarati counterparts which end up replaced or existed alongside with. The major driving force behind this latter category has to be the continuing role of English in modern India as a language of education, prestige, and mobility. In this way, Indian speech can be sprinkled with English words and expressions, even switches to whole sentences.[80] See Hinglish, Code-switching.
In matters of sound, English alveolar consonants map as retroflexes rather than dentals. Two new characters were created in Gujarati to represent English /æ/'s and /ɔ/'s. Levels of Gujarati-ization in sound vary. Some words do not go far beyond this basic transpositional rule, and sound much like their English source, while others differ in ways, one of those ways being the carrying of dentals. See Indian English.
As English loanwords are a relatively new phenomenon, they adhere to English grammar, as tatsam words adhere to Sanskrit. That is not to say that the most basic changes have been underway: many English words are pluralised with Gujarati o over English "s". Also, with Gujarati having three genders, genderless English words must take one. Though often inexplicable, gender assignment may follow the same basis as it is expressed in Gujarati: vowel type, and the nature of word meaning.
Loanword
English source
bâṅk
bank
phon
phone
ṭebal
table
bas
bus
rabbar
rubber
dôkṭar
doctor
rasīd
receipt
helo  halo  hālo
hello
hôspiṭalaspitālispitāl
hospital
sṭeśan  ṭeśan
railway station
sāykal
bicycle
rum
room
āis krīm
ice cream
esī
air conditioning
aṅkal1
uncle
āṇṭī1
aunt
pākīṭ
wallet
kavar
envelope
noṭ
banknote
skūl
school
ṭyuśan
tuition
miniṭ
minute
ṭikiṭ  ṭikaṭ
ticket
sleṭ
slate
hoṭal
hotel
pārṭī
political party
ṭren
train
kalekṭar
district collector
reḍīyo
radio
1 These English forms are often used (prominently by NRIs) for those family friends and elders that are not actually uncles and aunts but are of the age.
Portuguese[edit]
The smaller foothold the Portuguese had in wider India had linguistic effects. Gujarati took up a number of words, while elsewhere the influence was great enough to the extent that creole languages came to be (see Portuguese India, Portuguese-based creole languages in India and Sri Lanka). Comparatively, the impact of Portuguese has been greater on coastal languages[81] and their loans tend to be closer to the Portuguese originals.[82] The source dialect of these loans imparts an earlier pronunciation of ch as an affricate instead of the current standard of [ʃ].[57]
Gujarati
Meaning
Portuguese
istrī
iron(ing)
estirar1
mistrī2
carpenter
mestre3
sābu
soap
sabão
chāvī
key
chave
tamāku
tobacco
tabaco
kobī
cabbage
couve
kāju
cashew
cajú
pāũ
bread
pão
baṭāko
potato
batata
anānas
pineapple
ananás
pādrī
father (in Catholicism)
padre
aṅgrej(ī)
English (not specifically the language)
inglês
nātāl
Christmas
natal
1 "To stretch (out)".
2 Common occupational surname.
3 "Master".
Loans into English[edit]
Bungalow—
1676, from Gujarati bangalo, from Hindi bangla "low, thatched house," lit. "Bengalese," used elliptically for "house in the Bengal style."[83]
Coolie—
1598, "name given by Europeans to hired laborers in India and China," from Hindi quli "hired servant," probably from koli, name of an aboriginal tribe or caste in Gujarat.[84]
Tank—
c.1616, "pool or lake for irrigation or drinking water," a word originally brought by the Portuguese from India, ult. from Gujarati tankh "cistern, underground reservoir for water," Marathi tanken, or tanka "reservoir of water, tank." Perhaps from Skt. tadaga-m "pond, lake pool," and reinforced in later sense of "large artificial container for liquid" (1690) by Port. tanque "reservoir," from estancar "hold back a current of water," from V.L. *stanticare (see stanch). But others say the Port. word is the source of the Indian ones.[85]
Grammar[edit]
Main article: Gujarati grammar
Gujarati is a head-final, or left-branching language. Adjectives precede nouns, direct objects come before verbs, and there are postpositions. The word order of Gujarati is SOV, and there are three genders and two numbers.[86] There are no definite or indefinite articles. A verb is expressed with its verbal root followed by suffixes marking aspect and agreement in what is called a main form, with a possible proceeding auxiliary form derived from to be, marking tense and mood, and also showing agreement. Causatives (up to double) and passives have a morphological basis.[87]
Sample text[edit]
Gujarati sample (Sign about Gandhi's hut)
Gujarati script—
ગાંધીજીની ઝૂંપડી-કરાડી
જગ પ્રસિદ્ધ દાંડી કૂચ પછી ગાંધીજીએ અહીં આંબાના વૃક્ષ નીચે ખજૂરી નાં છટિયાંની એક ઝૂંપડીમાં તા.૧૪-૪-૧૯૩૦ થી તા.૪-૫-૧૯૩૦ સુધી નિવાસ કર્યો હતો. દાંડીમાં છઠ્ઠી એપ્રિલે શરૂ કરેલી નિમક કાનૂન (મીઠાના સત્યાગ્રહ) ભંગની લડતને તેમણે અહીંથી વેગ આપી દેશ વ્યાપી બનાવી હતી. અહીંથી જ તેમણે ધરાસણાના મીઠાના અગરો તરફ કૂચ કરવાનો પોતાનો સંકલ્પ બ્રિટિશ વાઈસરૉયને પત્ર લખીને જણાવ્યો હતો.
તા.૪ થી મે ૧૯૩૦ની રાતના બાર વાગ્યા પછી આ સ્થળેથી બ્રિટિશ સરકારે તેમની ધરપકડ કરી હતી.
Devanagari script –
गांधीजीनी झूंपडी-कराडी
जग प्रसिद्ध दांडी कूच पछी गांधीजीए अहीं आंबाना वृक्ष नीचे खजूरीनां छटियांनी एक झूंपडीमां ता.१४-४-१९३०थी ता.४-५-१९३० सुधी निवास कर्यो हतो. दांडीमां छठ्ठी एप्रिले शरू करेली निमक कानून भंगनी लडतने तेमणे अहींथी वेग आपी देश व्यापी बनावी हती. अहींथीज तेमणे धरासणाना मीठाना अगरो तरफ कूच करवानो पोतानो संकल्प ब्रिटिश वाईसरॉयने पत्र लखीने जणाव्यो हतो.
ता.४थी मे १९३०नी रातना बार वाग्या पछी आ स्थळेथी ब्रिटिश सरकारे तेमनी धरपकड करी हती.
Transliteration (IAST)—
gāndhījīnī jhūmpḍī-karāḍī
jag prasiddh dāṇḍī kūc pachī gāndhījīe ahī̃ āmbānā vrukṣ nīce khajūrī nā̃ chaṭiyānnī ek jhūmpḍīmā̃ tā.14-4-1930 thī tā.4-5-1930 sudhī nivās karyo hato. dāṇḍīmā̃ chaṭhṭhī eprile śarū karelī nimak kānūn (mīṭhānā satyāgraha) bhaṅgnī laḍatne temṇe ahīnthī veg āpī deś vyāpī banāvī hatī. ahīnthī ja temṇe dharāsṇānā mīṭhānā agro taraph kūc karvāno potāno saṅkalp briṭiś vāīsarôyane patra lakhīne jaṇāvyo hato.
tā.4thī me 1930nī rātnā bār vāgyā pachī ā sthaḷethī briṭiś sarkāre temnī dharapkaḍ karī hatī.
Transcription (IPA)—
[ɡɑndʱid͡ʒini d͡ʒʱũpɽi-kəɾɑɽi]
[d͡ʒəɡ pɾəsɪddʱ ɖɑɳɖi kut͡ʃ pət͡ʃʰi ɡɑndʱid͡ʒie ə̤ȷ̃ ɑmbɑnɑ ʋɾʊkʃ nit͡ʃe kʰəd͡ʒuɾnɑ̃ t͡ʃʰəʈijɑ̃ni ek d͡ʒʱũpɽimɑ̃ tɑ _________tʰi tɑ|| _______ sudʱi niʋɑs kəɾjoto|| ɖɑɳɖimɑ̃ t͡ʃʰəʈʰʈʰi epɾile ʃəɾu kəɾeli nimək kɑnun bʱəŋɡni ləɽətne tɛmɳe ə̤ȷ̃tʰi ʋeɡ ɑpi deʃ ʋjɑpi bənɑʋiti|| ə̤ȷ̃tʰid͡ʒ tɛmɳe dʱəɾɑsəɽ̃ɑnɑ miʈʰɑnɑ əɡəɾo təɾəf kut͡ʃ kəɾʋɑno potɑno səŋkəlp bɾiʈiʃ ʋɑjsəɾɔjne pətɾə ləkʰine d͡ʒəɽ̃ɑʋjoto]
[tɑ| __tʰi me ____ni ɾɑtnɑ bɑɾ ʋɑɡjɑ pət͡ʃʰi ɑ stʰəɭetʰi bɾiʈiʃ səɾkɑɾe tɛmni dʱəɾpəkəɽ kəɾiti]
Simple gloss—
gandhiji's hut-karadi
world famous dandi march after gandhiji here mango's tree under palm date's bark's one hut-in date.14-4-1930-from date.4-5-1930 until residence done was. dandi-in sixth April-at started done salt law break's fight (-to) he here-from speed gave country wide made was. here-from he dharasana's salt's mounds towards march doing's self's resolve British viceroy-to letter written-having notified was.
date.4-from May 1930's night's twelve struck after this place-at-from British government his arrest done was.
Transliteration and detailed gloss—
gāndhījī-n-ī
jhū̃pṛ-ī-∅
Karāṛī
gandhiji–GEN–FEM
hut–FEM–SG
karadi
jag
prasiddh
dāṇḍī
kūc
pachī
gāndhījī-e
ahī̃
āmb-ā-∅-n-ā
vṛkṣ
nīce
world
famous
dandi
march
after
gandhiji–ERG
here
mango–MASC.OBL–SG–GEN–MASC.OBL
tree
under
khajūr-ī-∅-n-ā̃
chaṭiy-ā̃-n-ī
ek
jhū̃pṛ-ī-∅-mā̃
tā.
14 4 1930thī
tā.
4 5 1930
sudhī
palmdate–FEM–SG–GEN–NEUT.OBL
bark–NEUT.PL.OBL–GEN–FEM.OBL
one
hut–FEM–SG–in
date
14 4 1930–from
date
until
nivās
kar-y-o
ha-t-o
.
dāṇḍī-mā̃
chaṭhṭhī
epril-e
śarū
kar-el-ī
nimak
residence.MASC.SG.OBJ.NOM
do–PERF–MASC.SG
be–PAST–MASC.SG
dandi–in
sixth
April–at
started
do–PAST.PTCP–FEM
salt
kānūn
bhaṅg-n-ī
laṛat-∅-ne
te-m-ṇe
ahī̃-thī
veg
āp-ī
deś
vyāpī
law
break–GEN–FEM.OBL
fight.FEM.OBJ–SG–ACC
3.DIST–HONORIFIC–ERG
here–from
speed–OBJ
give–CONJUNCTIVE
country
wide
ban-āv-∅-ī
ha-t-ī
.
ahī̃-thī-j
te-m-ṇe
dharāsaṇā-n-ā
become–CAUS–PERF–FEM
be–PAST–FEM
here–from–INTENSIFIER
3.DIST–HONORIFIC–ERG
dharasana–GEN–MASC.PL
mīṭh-ā-n-ā
agar-o
taraph
kūc
kar-v-ā-n-o
potā-n-o
salt–NEUT.SG.OBL–GEN–MASC.PL
mound.MASC–PL
towards
march.MASC.SG
do–INF–OBL–GEN–MASC.SG
REFL–GEN–MASC.SG
saṅkalp
briṭiś
vāīsarôy-∅-ne
patra
lakh-īne
jaṇ-āv-y-o
ha-t-o
.
tā.
resolve.MASC.SG.OBJ.ACC
British
viceroy.OBJ–SG–DAT
letter
write–CONJUNCTIVE
know–CAUS–PERF–MASC.SG
be–PAST–MASC.SG
date
4-thī
me
1930-n-ī
rāt-∅-n-ā
bār
vāg-y-ā
pachī
ā
sthaḷ-e-thī
briṭiś
4-th
may
1930–GEN–FEM.OBL
night.FEM–SG–GEN–MASC.OBL
twelve
strike–PERF–OBL
after
3.PROX
place–at–from
British
sarkār-e
te-m-n-ī
dharpakaṛ
kar-∅-ī
ha-t-ī
.
government–ERG
3.DIST–HONORIFIC–GEN–FEM
arrest.FEM.SG.OBJ.ACC
do–PERF–FEM
be–PAST–FEM
Translation—
Gandhiji's hut-Karadi
After the world-famous Dandi March Gandhiji resided here in a date palm bark hut underneath a/the mango tree, from 14-4-1930 to 4-5-1930. From here he gave speed to and spread country-wide the anti-Salt Law struggle, started in Dandi on 6 April. From here, writing in a letter, he notified the British Viceroy of his resolve of marching towards the salt mounds of Dharasana.
The British government arrested him at this location, after twelve o'clock on the night of 4 May 1930.
Translation (provided at location)—
Gandhiji's hut-Karadi
Here under the mango tree in the hut made of palm leaves (khajoori) Gandhiji stayed from 14-4-1930 to 4-5-1930 after the world famous Dandi march. From here he gave impetus to the civil disobedience movement for breaking the salt act started on 6 April at Dandi and turned it into a nationwide movement. It was also from this place that he wrote a letter to the British viceroy expressing his firm resolve to march to the salt works at Dharasana.
This is the place from where he was arrested by the British government after midnight on 4 May 1930.
See also[edit]
Languages portalIndia portal
Gujarati journalism
Gujarati literature
Lisaan ud-Da'wat il-'Alaviyah (Language of Alavi Bohras)
Lists of Gujarati-language writers
Old Gujarati language
Rathwi Bareli
References[edit]
^ a b c d e f g Gujarati at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ Ernst Kausen, 2006. Die Klassifikation der indogermanischen Sprachen (Microsoft Word, 133 KB)
^ "Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 – Chapter 1: Founding Provisions". gov.za. Retrieved 6 December 2014.
^ Laurie Bauer, 2007, The Linguistics Student's Handbook, Edinburgh.
^ "Scheduled Languages in descending order of speaker's strength – 2011" (PDF). Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India.
^ Mikael Parkvall, "Världens 100 största språk 2007" (The World's 100 Largest Languages in 2007), in Nationalencyklopedin. Asterisks mark the 2010 estimates for the top dozen languages.
^ "Gujarat News - ગુજરાત સમાચાર। ભરતી। યોજના। ખેતીવાડી। લાઈફસ્ટાઈલ". 23 August 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
^ Parekh, Rauf (20 January 2017). "Situationer: The future of Gujarati language in Pakistan". Dawn.
^ Chitnis, Deepak (14 August 2013). "Hindi and Gujarati fastest growing Indian languages in the US". The American Bazaar.
^ Bhattacharyya, Anirudh (3 August 2017). "Punjabi among top three immigrant languages in Canada". Hindustan Times.
^ Edwards, Viv. "Gujarati today". BBC. Gujaratis form the second largest of the British South Asian speech communities, with important settlements in Leicester and Coventry in the Midlands, in the northern textile towns and in Greater London.
^ Barlas, Robert; Yong, Jui Lin (2010). Uganda. Marshall Cavendish. p. 96. ISBN 9780761448594. Of the non-Ugandan languages, Hindi and Gujarati are commonly spoken among members of the Asian Hindu community that migrated to Uganda during the early part of the 20th century.
^ "Indian South Africans". South African History Online. English is spoken as a first language by most Indian South Africans, although a minority of the Indian South African population, especially the elders, still speak some Indian languages. These languages include Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Urdu, Punjabi, and Gujarati.
^ "Gujarati Community in Hong Kong organizes grand reception in the honour of Gujarat CM". Official Portal of Gujarat Government. Addressing the community in Gujarati
^ "Indians make up over 1 per cent of Australia's population". The Indian Express. 27 June 2014.
^ a b c d Mistry (2001), pp. 274.
^ a b Mistry (2003), p. 115.
^ Mistry (1997), pp. 654–655.
^ Mistry (1997), p. 655.
^ Turner (1966), p. 811. Entry 14024..
^ Turner (1966), p. 760. Entry 13139..
^ Turner (1966), p. 41. Entry 941..
^ Turner (1966), p. 766. Entry 13271..
^ Dalby 1998, p. 237
^ Ajay Mitra Shastri; R. K. Sharma; Devendra Handa (2005), Revealing India's past: recent trends in art and archaeology, Aryan Books International, p. 227, ISBN 8173052875, It is an established fact that during 10th-11th century ... Interestingly the language was known as the Gujjar Bhakha.
^ K. Ayyappapanicker (1997), Medieval Indian literature: an anthology, Volume 3, Sahitya Akademi, p. 91, ISBN 9788126003655
^ Mistry 2003, p. 115
^ Smith, J.D. (2001) "Rajasthani." Facts about the world's languages: An encyclopedia of the world's major languages, past and present. Ed. Jane Garry, and Carl Rubino: New England Publishing Associates. pp. 591-593.
^ Rita Kothari (8 April 2014). Translating India. Routledge. pp. 73–74. ISBN 978-1-317-64216-9. Retrieved 5 August 2014.
^ Cardona & Suthar (2003), p. 661.
^ Yashaschandra, S. (1995) "Towards Hind Svaraj: An Interpretation of the Rise of Prose in 19th-century Gujarati Literature." Social Scientist. Vol. 23, No. 10/12. pp. 41–55.
^ SEBASTIAN, V (2009). "Gandhi and the Standardisation of Gujarati". Economic and Political Weekly. 44 (31): 94–101. ISSN 0012-9976. JSTOR 25663396.
^ Benson, Eugene (30 November 2004). Encyclopedia of Post-Colonial Literatures in English. Routledge. p. 563. ISBN 9781134468485. Gandhi's seminal work, 'Hind Swaraj' ('Indian Home Role'), appeared in the columns of Indian Opinion in 1909. Originally written in his mother tongue, Gujarati, it was translated into English by Gandhi and published as Hind Swaraj or Indian Home Role in 1910.
^ Timeline: Personalities, Story of Pakistan. "Muhammad Ali Jinnah (1876–1948)". Retrieved 12 May 2007.
^ Rehman, Zia Ur (18 August 2015). "With a handful of subbers, two newspapers barely keeping Gujarati alive in Karachi". The News International. Retrieved 14 January 2017. In Pakistan, the majority of Gujarati-speaking communities are in Karachi including Dawoodi Bohras, Ismaili Khojas, Memons, Kathiawaris, Katchhis, Parsis (Zoroastrians) and Hindus, said Gul Hasan Kalmati, a researcher who authored "Karachi, Sindh Jee Marvi", a book discussing the city and its indigenous communities. Although there are no official statistics available, community leaders claim that there are three million Gujarati-speakers in Karachi – roughly around 15 percent of the city's entire population.
^ a b c Dalby (1998), p. 237.
^ Mistry (1997), p. 654.
^ "Jinnah didn't know Urdu, was fluent in Gujarati". The Times of India. 30 August 2009. Retrieved 18 February 2018.
^ "French island La Reunion is home to several Gujaratis". The Times of India. Retrieved 11 February 2022.
^ Dwyer (1995), p. 273.
^ a b Kachru, Braj B.; Kachru, Yamuna; Sridhar, S. N. (2008). Language in South Asia. Cambridge University Press. p. 531. ISBN 9781139465502.
^ The geographical distribution can be found in 'Linguistic Survey of India' by George A. Grierson.
^ "51st Report of the Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities in India" (PDF). nclm.nic.in. Ministry of Minority Affairs. 15 July 2015. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 February 2018. Retrieved 15 February 2018.
^ A simplified grammar of the Gujarati language by William St. Clair Tisdall (1892)
^ Kacchi at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ Ogilvie, Sarah (2009), Keith Brown (ed.), Concise Encyclopedia of Languages of the World (1st ed.), Amsterdam, Netherlands: Elsevier, ISBN 9780080877754
^ Grierson, G. A. (1908). Linguistic Survey of India, Vol IX: Indo-Aryan Family, Central Group, Part II: Specimens of the Rājasthānī and Gujarātī. Superintendent Government Printing. pp. viii.
^ Masica (1991), p. 97.
^ Snell, R. (2000) Teach Yourself Beginner's Hindi Script. Hodder & Stoughton. pp. 83–86.
^ Turner (1966), p. 44. Entry 992..
^ Turner (1966), p. 203. Entry 3856..
^ Turner (1966), p. 30. Entry 684..
^ Turner (1966), p. 502. Entry 8947..
^ Turner (1966), p. 706. Entry 12193..
^ Turner (1966), p. 762. Entry 13173..
^ Turner (1966), p. 766. Entry 13276..
^ a b Masica (1991), p. 75.
^ Platts (1884), p. 776.
^ Platts (1884), p. 486.
^ Platts (1884), p. 489.
^ Platts (1884), p. 305.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 168.
^ Platts (1884), p. 1057.
^ Platts (1884), p. 653.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 170.
^ Platts (1884), p. 519.
^ Platts (1884), p. 1142.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 160.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 177.
^ Platts (1884), p. 1123.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 184.
^ Platts (1884), p. 471.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 172.
^ Platts (1884), p. 771.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 175.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 169.
^ Platts (1884), p. 947.
^ Masica (1991), p. 71.
^ Tisdall (1892), p. 15.
^ Masica (1991), pp. 49–50.
^ Masica (1991), p. 49.
^ Masica (1991), p. 73.
^ Bungalow. Online Etymology Dictionary.
^ Coolie. Online Etymology Dictionary.
^ Tank. Online Etymology Dictionary.
^ "Facts about Gujarat".
^ Mistry (2001), pp. 276–277.
Bibliography[edit]
Belsare, M.B. (1904) An etymological Gujarati-English Dictionary.
Deshpande, P.G. & Parnwell, E.C. (1977) Oxford Picture Dictionary. English-Gujarati. Oxford University Press.
Mehta, B.N. & Mehta, B.B. (1925) The Modern Gujarati-English Dictionary.
Suthar, B. (2003) Gujarati-English Learner's Dictionary (1 Mb)
Waghmar, Burzine (2009). Gujarati. In Keith Brown and Sarah Ogilvie (eds.), Concise Encyclopedia of the Languages of the World. Oxford: Elsevier, pp. 468–469.
Turner, Ralph Lilley (1966), A Comparative Dictionary of the Indo-Aryan Languages, London: Oxford University Press.
Cardona, George (1965), A Gujarati Reference Grammar, University of Pennsylvania Press.
Tisdall, W.S. (1892), A Simplified Grammar of the Gujarati Language.
Gajendragadkar, S.N. (1972), Parsi Gujarati, Bombay: University of Bombay.
Masica, Colin (1991), The Indo-Aryan Languages, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-29944-2.
Mistry, P.J. (1996), "Gujarati Writing", in Daniels; Bright (eds.), The World's Writing Systems, Oxford University Press.
Mistry, P.J. (1997), "Gujarati Phonology", in Kaye, A.S (ed.), Phonologies of Asia and Africa, Winona Lake: Eisenbrauns.
Mistry, P.J. (2001), "Gujarati", in Garry, Jane; Rubino, Carl (eds.), An encyclopedia of the world's major languages, past and present, New England Publishing Associates.
Mistry, P.J. (2003), "Gujarati", in Frawley, William (ed.), International Encyclopedia of Linguistics, vol. 2 (2nd ed.), Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Platts, John T. (John Thompson) (1884), A dictionary of Urdu, classical Hindi, and English, London: W.H. Allen & Co.
Dalby, Andrew (1998). Dictionary of Languages: The Definitive Reference to More Than 400 Languages. Columbia University Press. ISBN 0-231-11568-7.
Dwyer, Rachel (1995), Teach Yourself Gujarati, London: Hodder and Stoughton.
Cardona, George; Suthar, Babu (2003), "Gujarati", in Cardona, George; Jain, Dhanesh (eds.), The Indo-Aryan Languages, Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-77294-5
External links[edit]
 Gujarati  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Gujarati
Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article "Gujarati and Rajasthani".
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Gujarati.
Gujarati language at Curlie
Gujarati language at Encyclopædia Britannica
Gujarati Online Dictionary & Language Resources
Bharatiya Bhasha Jyoti: Gujarati—a textbook for learning Gujarati through Hindi from the Central Institute of Indian Languages.
English to Gujarati Dictionary
vteGujarati language topics
Gujarati language
Gurjar Apabhraṃśa
Old Gujarati
Middle Gujarati
Gujarati related languages
Grammar
Phonology
Script
Numerals
Braille
Literature
Children's literature
Journalism
Cinema
Theatre
List of states of India by number of Gujarati speakers
Writers
vte State of GujaratCapital: GandhinagarTopics
Architecture
Cinema
Cuisine
Culture
Economy
Education
Geography
Government
Highest point
History
Language
Literature
People
Politics
National parks and sanctuaries
Tourism
Regions of Gujarat
Kutch
Saurashtra
North Gujarat
Central Gujarat
South Gujarat
Districts
Ahmedabad
Amreli
Anand
Aravalli
Banaskantha
Bharuch
Bhavnagar
Botad
Chhota Udaipur
Dahod
Dang
Devbhoomi Dwarka
Gandhinagar
Gir Somnath
Jamnagar
Junagadh
Kachchh
Kheda
Mahisagar
Mehsana
Morbi
Narmada
Navsari
Panchmahal
Patan
Porbandar
Rajkot
Sabarkantha
Surat
Surendranagar
Tapi
Vadodara
Valsad
Major cities
Ahmedabad
Amreli
Anand
Ankleshwar
Bharuch
Bhavnagar
Botad
Bhuj
Dwarka
Gandhidham
Gandhinagar
Godhra
Jamnagar
Junagadh
Kheda
Mehsana
Morbi
Nadiad
Navsari
Modasa
Patan
Porbandar
Rajkot
Surat
Surendranagar
Wadhwan
Wankaner
Udhana
Vadodara
Valsad
Vapi
Veraval
Visnagar
Ecoregions
Indus River Delta–Arabian Sea mangroves
Khathiar–Gir dry deciduous forests
North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests
Northwestern thorn scrub forests
Rann of Kutch
Economy
Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System
Gujarat International Finance Tec-City
Sabarmati Riverfront
Sardar Sarovar Dam
GSWAN
Power stations and power organisations
Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation
Gujarat Gas
 India portal
vteLanguages of IndiaOfficiallanguagesUnion-level
Hindi
English
8th schedule to the Constitution of India
Assamese
Bengali
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Hindi
Kannada
Kashmiri
Konkani
Maithili
Malayalam
Meitei (Manipuri)
Marathi
Nepali
Odia
Punjabi
Sanskrit
Santali
Sindhi
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
State-level only
Angika
Bhojpuri
Chhattisgarhi
Garo
Gurung
Ho
Kamatapuri
Kharia
Khasi
Khortha
Kokborok
Kurmali
Kurukh
Lepcha
Limbu
Magahi
Magar
Mizo
Mundari
Newari
Rai
Rajbangshi
Sadri
Sherpa
Sikkimese
Sunwar
Tamang
MajorunofficiallanguagesOver 1 millionspeakers
Awadhi
Bagheli
Bagri
Bajjika
Bhili
Bundeli
Dhundhari
Garhwali
Gondi
Harauti
Haryanvi
Kangri
Khandeshi
Kumaoni
Lambadi
Malvi
Marwari
Mewari
Nimadi
Rajasthani
Surjapuri
Tulu
Wagdi
Varhadi
100,000 – 1 millionspeakers
Adi
Angami
Ao
Badaga
Dimasa
Halbi
Karbi
Khotta
Kodava
Kolami
Konyak
Korku
Koya
Kui
Kuvi
Ladakhi
Lotha
Malto
Mising
Nishi
Phom
Rabha
Sema
Sora
Tangkhul
Thadou
Linguistic history
Classical
Multilingualism
Endangered
Scheduled languages in states
vteLanguages of PakistanOfficial languages
Urdu (national)
English
Other languages(by administrative unit)Azad Kashmir
Dogri
Gujari
Kashmiri
Kundal Shahi
Pahari-Pothwari
Balochistan
Balochi
Brahui
Dehwari
Hazaragi
Jadgali
Khetrani
Pashto
Wanetsi
Gilgit-Baltistan
Balti
Burushaski
Dawoodi
Khowar
Purgi
Shina
Wakhi
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Burushaski
Badeshi
Bateri
Chilisso
Dameli
Gawar-Bati
Gowro
Hindko
Indus Kohistani
Kalami
Kalasha-mun
Kalkoti
Kamviri
Khowar
Kohistani Shina
Mankiyali
Munji
Ormuri
Palula
Pashto
Sawi
Shekhani
Torwali
Ushoji
Wazir
Yidgha
Punjab
Bagri
Dogri
Hindko
Kabutra
Marwari
Mewari
Pothwari Punjabi
Punjabi
dialects
Saraiki
Rajasthani
Rangri
Sindh
Aer
Bagri
Bengali
Bhaya
Dhatki
Goaria
Gujarati
Jandavra
Jogi
Koli
Kachi
Parkari
Wadiyara
Kutchi
Loarki
Marwari
Memoni
Mewari
Od
Rajasthani
Rangri
Sindhi
Urdu
Vaghri
Related topics
Indo-Aryan languages
Dardic languages
Iranic languages
Pakistani Sign Language
Arabic
Persian
Pakistani Hindi (Hindi)
Chagatai
vteLanguages of South Africa
Pan South African Language Board
Commission for Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Community Rights
Department of Arts and Culture
OfficialWest Germanic
Afrikaans
English
Southern BantuSotho–Tswana
Northern Sotho (Sesotho sa Leboa)
Southern Sotho (Sesotho)
Tswana (Setswana)
Nguni
Southern Ndebele (isiNdebele)
Swazi (siSwati)
Xhosa (isiXhosa)
Zulu (isiZulu)
Tswa–Ronga
Tsonga (Xitsonga)
Venda
Venda (Tshivenḓa)
Recognisedunofficial languagesmentioned in the1996 constitutionIndigenous
Bhaca
Khoe
Khoisan
Lala
Lozi
Nama
Nhlangwini
Northern Ndebele
Phuthi
Tuu
Foreign
German
Greek
Gujarati
Hindi
Portuguese
Malay (historical)
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Religious
Arabic
Hebrew
Sanskrit
OtherLGBT slang
Gayle
IsiNgqumo
Other
Tsotsitaal and Camtho
Oorlams Creole
Fanagalo
Pretoria Sotho
Scamto
SA Sign Language
Angloromani
Kaaps
vteIndo-Aryan languagesDardicKashmiri
Kashmiri
Kishtwari
Shina
Shina
Brokskat
Kundal Shahi
Kalkoti
Ushoji
Palula
Sawi
Pashayi
Pashayi
Kunar
Dameli
Gawar-Bati
Nangalami
Shumashti
Chitral
Kalasha
Khowar
Kohistani
Indus Kohistani
Bateri
Chilisso
Gowro
Kalami
Tirahi
Torwali
Wotapuri-Katarqalai
NorthernEastern
Doteli
Jumli
Nepali
Central
Garhwali
Kumaoni
Western
Dogri
Kangri
Bhadarwahi
Churahi
Bhateali
Bilaspuri
Chambeali
Gaddi
Pangwali
Mandeali
Mahasu Pahari
Jaunsari
Kullui
Pahari Kinnauri
Hinduri
Sirmauri
Sarazi
NorthwesternPunjabiEastern
Punjabi
dialects
Sansi
Lahnda
Hindko
Inku
Khetrani
Pahari-Pothwari
Saraiki
Sindhi
Jadgali
Kholosi
Kutchi
Luwati
Memoni
Sindhi
WesternGujarati
Aer
Gujarati
Jandavra
Koli
Kachi
Parkari
Wadiyara
Lisan ud-Dawat
Parkari Koli
Saurashtra
Vaghri
Rajasthani
Bagri
Goaria
Loarki
Gujari
Dhundari
Harauti
Malvi
Marwari
Mewati
Mewari
Shekhawati
Dhatki
Nimadi
Bhil
Bhili
Bhilali
Chodri
Dhodia-Kukna
Dhanki
Dubli
Bauria
Bhilori
Mawchi
Magari
Palya Bareli
Pauri Bareli
Rathwi Bareli
Pardhi
Gamit
Kalto
Vasavi
Wagdi
Vaagri Booli
Others
Khandeshi
Lambadi
Dawoodi
Domari
Romani
list of languages
CentralWestern
Braj Bhasha
Bundeli
Haryanvi
Hindustani
Kauravi
Hindi
Urdu
Deccani
Judeo-Urdu
Hyderabadi Urdu
Rekhta
Kannauji
Sansi
Sadhukkadi
Eastern
Awadhi
Bagheli
Chhattisgarhi
Fiji Hindi
Others
Parya
EasternBihariBhojpuric
Bhojpuri
Caribbean Hindustani
Magahi
Magahi
Khortha
Maithili
Maithili
Angika
Bajjika
Sadanic
Sadri
Kurmali
Tharuic
Tharu
Kochila
Buksa
Majhi
Musasa
Others
Kumhali
Kuswaric
Bote-Darai
Danwar
Bengali–AssameseBengali
Bengali
dialects
Bishnupriya Manipuri
Hajong
Chittagonian
Chakma
Kharia Thar
Kurmukar
Mal Paharia
Noakhailla
Rohingya
Sylheti
Tanchangya
Kamarupic
Assamese
Kamrupi
Goalpariya
Rajbanshi (Nepal)
Rangpuri
Surjapuri
Odia
Odia
Sambalpuri
Desia
Bhatri
Bodo Parja
Reli
Kupia
Halbic
Halbi
Kamar
Bhunjia
Nahari
SouthernMarathi–KonkaniMarathic
Marathi
Varhadi
Andh
Berar Deccan
Varli
Phudagi
Katkari
Kadodi
Konkanic
Konkani
Maharashtrian Konkani
Canarese Konkani
Insular
Maldivian
Sinhala
Old
Sanskrit
Vedic
Classical
Mitanni superstrate
MiddleEarly
Ashokan Prakrit
Pāli
Early Ardhamagadhi
Middle (Prakrit)
Buddhist Hybrid Sanskrit
Dramatic Prakrits
Ardhamagadhi
Magadhi
Maharashtri
Shauraseni
Gāndhārī
Paishachi
Late (Apabhraṃśa)
Abahattha
Apabhraṃśa
Elu
Kamarupi
Khasa Prakrit
Proto-languages
Proto-Indo-Iranian
Proto-Indo-Aryan
Unclassified
Bazigar
Chinali–Lahul
Chinali
Lahul Lohar
Sheikhgal
Pidginsand creoles
Andaman Creole Hindi
Bombay Hindi
Haflong Hindi
Nagamese
Nefamese
Vedda
See also
Indo-Iranian languages
Nuristani languages
Iranian languages
Authority control National
Germany
Japan
Czech Republic
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gujarati_language&oldid=1172613279"
Categories: Gujarati languageGujarati literatureIndo-Aryan languagesSubject–object–verb languagesOfficial languages of IndiaLanguages of IndiaLanguages of GujaratLanguages of MaharashtraLanguages of Madhya PradeshLanguages of RajasthanLanguages of PakistanLanguages of SindhLanguages of TanzaniaLanguages of UgandaLanguages of CanadaLanguages of KenyaLanguages of the United KingdomLanguages of the United StatesLanguages of South AfricaLanguages of AustraliaLanguages used in AkashvaniLanguages used in DoordarshanLanguages with own distinct writing systemsLanguages used in Press Information Bureau of IndiaLanguages used in Prime Minister's Office of IndiaLanguages used in recruitment of Central Armed Police Forces of IndiaLanguages used in Staff Selection Commission of IndiaLanguages officially written in Indic scriptsMILs in Central Board of Secondary Education of IndiaMILs in Indira Gandhi National Open UniversitySahitya Akademi recognised languagesHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 25Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse Indian English from May 2020All Wikipedia articles written in Indian EnglishUse dmy dates from March 2022Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing Gujarati-language textInstances of Lang-gu using second unnamed parameterAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2022Articles with Curlie linksArticles with GND identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 05:48 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width