Animal breeding and genetics Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Animal breeding and genetics23,292 FollowersRecent papers in Animal breeding and geneticsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleFrontier animal husbandry in the Northeast and East African Neolithic: A multiproxy paleoenvironmental and paleodemographic study. Journal of Anthropological Research 67(2):213-244. (2011)Domesticated animals spread from their ancestral heartland in northern Africa and southwestern Asia into eastern and southern Africa after 4000 BP. Three theories account for the relatively slow spread of domesticated animals into the... moreDomesticated animals spread from their ancestral heartland in northern Africa and southwestern Asia into eastern and southern Africa after 4000 BP. Three theories account for the relatively slow spread of domesticated animals into the southern latitudes between 4000 and 3000 BP. The first theory posits that arid climates hindered the dispersal of domesticated animals beyond the Lake Turkana basin until pluvial conditions set in after 3000 BP. The second theory argues that epizootic diseases were the inhibiting factors. Finally, indigenous cultural reticence to alter their primary modes of subsistence in favor of animal husbandry accords with the archaeological data from sites that date to this period. A single normative paradigm explaining the shift from a primarily foraging subsistence economy to one that relied heavily on domesticates is unlikely. This review of the current archaeological and paleoenvironmental state of knowledge finds the “static frontier” likely resulted from a combination of all of these factors.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Wright•  18  Landscape Ecology, Human Geography, Archaeology, PaleoclimatologyDigging up the canine genome - a tale to wag aboutThere is incredible morphological and behavioral diversity among the hundreds of breeds of the domestic dog, Canis familiaris. Many of these breeds have come into existence within the last few hundred years. While there are obvious... moreThere is incredible morphological and behavioraldiversity among the hundreds of breeds of the domestic dog,Canis familiaris. Many of these breeds have come into existencewithin the last few hundred years. While there areobvious phenotypic differences among breeds, there is markedinterbreed genetic homogeneity. Thus, study of canine geneticsand genomics is of importance to comparative genomics, evolutionarybiology and study of human hereditary diseases. Themost recent version of the map of the canine genome is comprisedof 3,270 markers mapped to 3,021 unique positions withan average intermarker distance of F1 Mb. The markersinclude approximately 1,600 microsatellite markers, about1,000 gene-based markers, and almost 700 bacterial artificialchromosome-end markers. Importantly, integration of radiationhybrid and linkage maps has greatly enhanced the utility ofthe map. Additionally, mapping the genome has led directly tocharacterization of microsatellite markers ideal for whole genomelinkage scans. Thus, workers are now able to exploit thecanine genome for a wide variety of genetic studies. Finally, thedecision to sequence the canine genome highlights the dog’sevolutionary and physiologic position between the mouse andhuman and its importance as a model for study of mammaliangenetics and human hereditary diseases.Save to LibraryDownloadby Melissa L. Cox•  2  Animal breeding and genetics, Dog GeneticsGenetic characterization, at the mitochondrial and nuclear DNA levels, of five Canary Island dog breedsMany studies presenting genetic analysis of dog breeds have been conducted without the inclusion of island dog breeds, although isolation can be one of the main factors in their origin. Here we report the genetic analysis at the nuclear... moreMany studies presenting genetic analysis of dog breeds have been conducted without the inclusion of island dog breeds, although isolation can be one of the main factors in their origin. Here we report the genetic analysis at the nuclear and mitochondrial DNA levels of five Canary Island dog breeds (Canarian Warren Hound, Canary Island Mastiff, Garafiano Shepherd, La Palma Rat-Hunter and El Hierro Wolfhound) to fill this gap and, at the same time, genetically characterize these breeds. We identified 168 alleles in autosomal microsatellites and 16 mitochondrial haplotypes. Observed and expected heterozygosities ranged from 0.556 to 0.783 and from 0.737 to 0.943 respectively. Furthermore, threehaplotypes were newly described and exclusive to a particular breed (A17+ in the Canary Island Mastiff; A33+ in the Canarian Warren Hound; Bi in the La Palma Rat-Hunter). The outcome of our analyses also revealed different breed histories consistent with historical documents and hypothetical origin designations. Although mtDNA haplotypes showed poor breed discriminating power, autosomal markers allowed a clear clustering of each singlepopulation. We expect that our results, together with further  analyses, will help to make the population histories of island dog breeds clearer.Save to LibraryDownloadby N Suárez and +1Rosa  Fregel•  3  Forensic Genetics, Animal breeding and genetics, Dog GeneticsRacing for Disaster? Breeding thoroughbreds for speed may harm their healthSave to LibraryDownloadby Ann  Gibbons•  9  Evolutionary Biology, Genetics, Endangered Species, Domestication (Zooarchaeology)Triple gene editing in porcine embryos using electroporation alone or in combination with microinjectionBackground and Aim: We previously developed the gene-editing by electroporation (EP) of Cas9 protein method, in which the CRISPR/Cas9 system was introduced into porcine in vitro fertilized (IVF) zygotes through EP to disrupt a target... moreBackground and Aim: We previously developed the gene-editing by electroporation (EP) of Cas9 protein method, in which the CRISPR/Cas9 system was introduced into porcine in vitro fertilized (IVF) zygotes through EP to disrupt a target gene. This method should be further developed, and a combination of EP and MI methods should be evaluated in pigs. This study aimed to determine that a combination of microinjection (MI) and EP of CRISPR/Cas9 system could increase the rates of biallelic mutation for triple-gene knockout in porcine blastocysts. We targeted the pancreatic and duodenal homeobox1 (PDX1) gene using cytoplasmic MI 1 h before or after EP, which was used to edit alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase (GGTA1) and cytidine 32 monophosphate-N-acetylneuraminic acid hydroxylase (CMAH) genes in porcine zygotes.Materials and Methods: We introduced guide RNAs targeting PDX1, GGTA1, and CMAH with the Cas9 protein into IVF zygotes (one-cell stage) through EP 10 h after the start of IVF (IVF; EP group) or in combination with MI (1 h before, MI-EP group, or after EP treatment EP-MI group) and evaluated the blastocyst formation rate and efficiency of target mutations in the resulting blastocysts.Results: Our results revealed a significant reduction in the rate of blastocyst formation in the two groups that underwent MI before and after EP (MI-EP and EP-MI group), compared with that in the groups treated with EP alone (EP group) (p=0.0224 and p<0.0001, respectively) and control (p=0.0029 and p<0.0001, respectively). There was no significant difference in the total mutation rates among the treatment groups in the resulting blastocysts. As an only positive effect of additional MI treatment, the rate of blastocysts carrying biallelic mutations in at least one target gene was higher in the MI-EP group than in the EP group. However, there was no difference in the rates of embryos carrying biallelic mutations in more than 2 target genes.Conclusion: These results indicate that although a combination of MI and EP does not improve the mutation efficiency or biallelic mutation for triple-gene knockout, MI treatment before EP is better to reduce mortality in porcine zygotic gene editing through a combination of MI and EP.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World and +6Zhao NamulaQuynh LeMaki HirataTakeshige OtoiDo LanhQingyi Lin•  8  Animal reproduction, Animal breeding and genetics, Animal Genomics, Animal biotechnologyEstimates of missing heritability for complex traits in Brown Swiss cattleGenomic selection estimates genetic merit based on dense SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) genotypes and phenotypes. This requires that SNPs explain a large fraction of the genetic variance. The objectives of this work were: (1) to... moreGenomic selection estimates genetic merit based on dense SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) genotypes and phenotypes. This requires that SNPs explain a large fraction of the genetic variance. The objectives of this work were: (1) to estimate the fraction of genetic variance explained by dense genome-wide markers using 54 K SNP chip genotyping, and (2) to evaluate the effect of alternative marker-based relationship matrices and corrections for the base population on the fraction of the genetic variance explained by markers. Two alternative marker-based relationship matrices were estimated using 35 706 SNPs on 1086 dairy bulls. Both pedigree- and marker-based relationship matrices were fitted simultaneously or separately in an animal model to estimate the fraction of variance not explained by the markers, i.e. the fraction explained by the pedigree. The phenotypes considered in the analysis were the deregressed estimated breeding values (dEBV) for milk, fat and protein yield and for...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergio Roman•  20  Genetics, Technology, Genomics, BiologyBerechnung des durchschnittlichen Verwandtschaftsgrades aus der Häufigkeit von GeschwisterpaarenSave to LibraryDownloadby D. Flock•  3  Biology, Animal Production, Animal breeding and geneticsAnálisis Genéticos en La Raza Poni Vasco-Pottoka. Resultados Preliminares Genetic Analysis in the Basque Pony-Pottoka Breed. Preliminary ResultsSave to LibraryDownloadby Teresa  Tejedor•  6  Population Genetics, Animal Production, Animal breeding and genetics, Genetic AnalysisEstimation of heterotic components for lactation traits and reproductive performance in three crossbreeding trials of Holstein cattle with German Friesian raised under hot climatic conditionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Maher Hassab El-Nabi Khalil•  3  Animal Production, Animal breeding and genetics, AnimalBLUP How it works-4A joint evaluation of all animals, uses all additive genetic relationships uses all data on all animal jointly It works as a linear model (correcting different effects for each other), jointly estimates animal effects and fixed effects... moreA joint evaluation of all animals, uses all additive genetic relationships uses all data on all animal jointly It works as a linear model (correcting different effects for each other), jointly estimates animal effects and fixed effects (herds) but has Selection Index properties (Regression with " heritability ")  1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•  47  Agricultural Engineering, Genetics, Animal Science, Conservation BiologyAn immunological approach of sperm sexing and different methods for identification of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm(2017) An immunological approach of sperm sexing and different methods for identification of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm, Veterinary World, 10(5): 498-504. Abstract Separation of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm has been practiced... more(2017) An immunological approach of sperm sexing and different methods for identification of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm, Veterinary World, 10(5): 498-504. Abstract Separation of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm has been practiced for selection of desired sex of offspring to increase the profit in livestock industries. At present, fluorescence-activated cell sorter is the only successful method for separation of X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm. This technology is based on the differences in DNA content between these two types of sperm and has been commercialized for bovine sperm. However, this technology still has problems in terms of high economic cost, sperm damage, and lower pregnancy rates compared to unsorted semen. Therefore, an inexpensive, convenient, and non-invasive approach for sperm sexing would be of benefit to agricultural sector. Within this perspective, immunological sperm sexing method is one of the attractive choices to separate X-and Y-chromosome bearing sperm. This article reviews the current knowledge about immunological approaches, viz., H-Y antigen, sex-specific antigens, and differentially expressed proteins for sperm sexing. Moreover, this review also highlighted the different methods for identification of X-and Y-sperm.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World and +3Prabhat PaltaSHIV KUMAR YADAVChiranjeev Tikadar•  3  Animal reproduction, Animal breeding and genetics, Animal biotechnologyChallenges and opportunities to livestock breeding programmes in IndiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Gopal Gowane•  4  Business, Medicine, Animal Production, Animal breeding and geneticsMolecular characterization and differentiation of five horse breeds raised in Algeria using polymorphic microsatellite markersIn this study, genetic analyses of diversity and differentiation were performed on five horse breeds raised in Algeria (Barb, Arab-Barb, Arabian, Thoroughbred and French Trotter). All microsatellite markers were highly polymorphic in all... moreIn this study, genetic analyses of diversity and differentiation were performed on five horse breeds raised in Algeria (Barb, Arab-Barb, Arabian, Thoroughbred and French Trotter). All microsatellite markers were highly polymorphic in all the breeds. A total of 123 alleles from 14 microsatellite loci were detected in 201 horses. The average number of alleles per locus was the highest in the Arab-Barb horses (7.86) and lowest in the thoroughbred breed (5.71), whereas the observed and expected heterozygosities per breed ranged from 0.71 (Thoroughbred) to 0.752 (Barb) and 0.71 (Thoroughbred) to 0.77 (Arab-Barb), respectively. The genetic differentiation between the breeds was significant (p &lt; 0.01) based on the infinitesimal model (FST ). Three different approaches for evaluating the genetic relationships were applied. Genetic distances, the factorial correspondence analysis and structure analysis showed that a significant amount of genetic variation is maintained in the native horse...Save to LibraryDownloadby Gregoire Leroy•  7  Breeding, Animal Production, Animal breeding and genetics, AlgeriaCurb Your Cat || Cat training GuidCurb Your Cat || Cat training GuidSave to LibraryDownloadby PavanKumar Hadli•  5  Animal Science, Animal Behavior, Animal breeding and genetics, TRAINING ON  petroleumenvironmental management + HSEModificación del método de tiocianato de guanidina para extraer ADN de semen para análisis genómico en mamíferos Modification of a guanidinium thiocyanate to extract DNA from semen for genomic analysis in mammalsRESUMEN Los análisis genómicos y transcriptómicos para selección y mejoramiento genético animal requieren ADN o ARN de alta concentración y pureza, proveniente de diferentes tejidos incluyendo semen. Los métodos usualmente utilizados para... moreRESUMEN Los análisis genómicos y transcriptómicos para selección y mejoramiento genético animal requieren ADN o ARN de alta concentración y pureza, proveniente de diferentes tejidos incluyendo semen. Los métodos usualmente utilizados para extraer ADN de semen son menos efectivos en cantidad y calidad de ADN, debido a los solventes y diluyente utilizados para la conservación, características físico-químicas de los espermatozoides, y fracción no celular del eyaculado. En este estudio, se proponen modificaciones al método de tiocianato de guanidina, incluyendo un segundo lavado de la muestra con solución buffer fosfato, y dos lavados con solventes orgánicos, uno fuerte (fenol:cloroformo:alcohol isoamílico) y uno débil (cloroformo:alcohol isoamílico), para retirar la proteína y diluyente presentes en la muestra. Además, se propone una incubación por separado con ARNasa para reducir contaminación de ácidos nucleicos en la medición y elaboración de diluciones para amplificación por PCR. La precipitación agregó al isopropanol de la metodología original 3 M de acetato de sodio para retirar restos de posibles inhibidores de la PCR. Finalmente, se incluyeron centrifugaciones de alta velocidad y decantaciones para evitar la necesidad de separación mecánica del ADN y la proteína. El ADN extraído con el método propuesto no presentó degradación, y la calidad y cantidad fueron mejores (P<0.0001), encontrándose una media de 1.84±0.09 en el rango 260/280 y 156.99±7.29 ng/l para la variable de concentración. El presente método de extracción es una alternativa de bajo costo, viable para obtener ADN de semen con características necesarias para análisis genómicos en mamíferos. ABSTRACT The genomic and transcriptomic analyses for selection and genetic improvement require DNA or RNA of high concentration and purity, coming from different tissues, including semen. The DNA may be from hair, saliva, cartilage, blood, or semen. The methods usually used to extract DNA from semen have low efficiency in terms of quantity and quality. This is due to the solvents and dilutors used for semen conservation, physical and chemical characteristics of sperms, and non-cellular fraction of ejaculate. In this study, modifications to the guanidinium thiocyanate method are proposed, including a second washing of the sample using a phosphate buffer solution, and two washing with organic solvents, one strong (phenol:chloroform:Isoamyl alcohol), and one weak (chloroform:isoamyl alcohol), to get rid of the protein and dilutors present in the sample. Additionally, it is proposed a separate incubation with RNA-ase to reduce contamination of nucleic acids during measurement and dilution preparation for PCR amplification. The precipitation added to the isopropanol of the original method 3 M sodium acetate to separate the residuals of potential PCR inhibitors. Finally, there were included high-speed centrifugation and decantation to avoid the need for mechanical separation of the DNA and protein. The DNA extracted with the modified method did not present degradation, and the quality and quantity were better (P<0.0001) than the original, with a mean of 1.84±0.09 in the range of 260/ 280 and 156.99±7.29 ng/l for concentration. The present method of extraction is a viable low-cost alternative to obtain DNA from semen with the necessary characteristics for genomic analysis in mammals.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rodolfo Ramirez and +2Agustín FloresRafael Núñez-Domínguez•Animal breeding and geneticsRELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN SPERM MORPHOLOGY, SEMEN CHARACTERISTICS, TESTICULAR MEASUREMENTS AND BODY CONFORMATION TRAITS IN RED SOKOTO GOATThis study assessed the relationships between sperm morphology, semen characteristics, testicular measurements and body conformation in 31 Red Sokoto bucks. The body condition was scored on a scale of 1 to 5. The linear traits: {heart... moreThis study assessed the relationships between sperm morphology, semen characteristics, testicular measurements and body conformation in 31 Red Sokoto bucks. The body condition was scored on a scale of 1 to 5. The linear traits: {heart girth (HG), stature (ST), chest width (CW), withers height (WH), body depth (BD), body length (BL) and rump width (RW)} and testicular measurements:{testicular length (TL), testicular circumference (TC), were measured in centimeters using flexible tape while testicular width (TW) and testicular weight (TWT) were estimated using the appropriate formulae}. The semen characteristics: {semen volume, sperm motility, semen pH, sperm concentration and live and dead ratio}as well as sperm morphological traits {detached mid-piece and tail (DMT), detached head (DH), mid-piece droplet (MPD), coiled and bent tail (CBT), and acrosomal abnormality (ACR)} were accordingly determined. The results showed that, the correlations between semen and sperm morphological characteristics were generally negative and non-significant, except the correlation between CBT and some semen traits (P<0.05; r= -0.29 to -0.39) as well as the correlation between semen volume and some sperm morphological traits (P<0.05; r= -0.26 to -0.29), which were significant). Among the testicular measurements, TL recorded the only negative and significant correlation with MPD (P<0.05; r= -0.33). DMT was positively and significantly correlated with BD (P<0.05; r= 0.39) but negatively and significantly correlated with WH (P<0.05; r= -0.25). However, DH was positively and significantly correlated with WH and BD (P<0.05; r = 0.25 – 0.39) MPD also recorded positive and significant correlation with BW, HG and CW (P<0.05; r= 0.25 – 0.28), while CBT was observed to be negatively and significantly correlated with BW, BCS, HG and Stature (P<0.05; r= -0.25 to -0.39). The study revealed that bucks with good body size and higher semen volume and quality exhibited less sperm morphological defects, therefore semen traits such as semen volume, sperm concentration, Live /dead ratio; and body measurement such as BW, BCS, HG and HW could be used to estimate semen quality in bucks.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ambali A Lekan•  5  Pharmacology, Pharmacy, Animal Science, Animal breeding and geneticsGenetic and phenotypic characterization of the native rabbits in Middle EgyptAim: Native rabbits in smallholder system are considered as important genetic resources, and the present study was aimed to study the genetic and phenotypic characterization and detection of the maternal origin of the native rabbit... moreAim: Native rabbits in smallholder system are considered as important genetic resources, and the present study was aimed to study the genetic and phenotypic characterization and detection of the maternal origin of the native rabbit populations located at the Middle of Egypt. Materials and Methods: A survey of native rabbit populations was conducted in three governorates (Fayum [FY], Beni Suef [BN], and El Menia [MN]). The phenotypic characterization of rabbits included the profile body of the head, ears, eyes, neck, and legs and the coat colors. The blood samples were collected for genetic characterization based on mitochondrial (cytochrome b) and the microsatellite markers. Results: The phenotypic characterization of the body parts in the three populations was almost similar. The body weight of the mature rabbits in MN government was significantly heaviest, and the measurements for the main body parts (body length, chest circumference, and abdominal girth) were the highest compared to the two populations. The results of mitochondrial (cytochrome b) analysis revealed that the rabbits from the three governments belonged to lineage A except one animal was recorded as lineage G from MN's rabbit population. The results of the microsatellite markers revealed that the genetic diversity between the three populations showed genetic interferences; however, a closer genetic relationship was observed between BN and MN than FY. The majority of the genetic diversity was the individual variability. Conclusion: The mitochondrial lineage A is the major lineage in rabbit populations in the area of the Middle Egypt understudy. The genetic populations' structure is the interferences among the three populations. A large-scale survey should be done on native rabbit populations for the sustainable management and conservation of the local breeds' genetic resources.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  5  Mitochondrial DNA, Animal Genetics, Animal breeding and genetics, RabbitsOÙ PÂTURER ? Le pastoralisme entre crises et adaptationsUn ouvrage collectif coordonné par Anne-Marie BRISEBARRE, Pablo VIDAL GONZÁLEZ, Guillaume LEBAUDY (Cardère ed., Coll. Hors les drailles) 184 pages. 18 articles de divers contributeurs : anthropologues et ethnologues, réalisatrice,... moreUn ouvrage collectif coordonné par Anne-Marie BRISEBARRE, Pablo VIDAL GONZÁLEZ, Guillaume LEBAUDY (Cardère ed., Coll. Hors les drailles) 184 pages. 18 articles de divers contributeurs : anthropologues et ethnologues, réalisatrice, géographes, journaliste, bergers, agronome, vétérinaire, écologue.   Parution septembre 2018 chez Cardère éditeur (format 21 x 27, illustré couleur , isbn 978-2-37649-006-7, prix public 25 €). www.cardere.fr/pastoralisme/140-transhumance-en-mediterranee.html  Nos sociétés de plus en plus urbanisées montrent du doigt la pratique de l' élevage, y compris celle du pastoralisme pourtant conduit de façon extensive. Le mode de vie pastoral, fondé sur la relation humains-animaux-territoires et sur la mobilité, est partout malmené. Cependant les cultures pastorales se défendent depuis plusieurs milliers d'années en faisant preuve de flexibilité, d'inventivité et de ruse, façonnant en outre des paysages diversifiés. Elles montrent partout leurs capacités de résilience et proposent des solutions hors des sentiers battus des modèles productivistes dominants, développés par nos sociétés hors-sol gourmandes en espace et en ressources. Cet ouvrage collectif, rédigé par des spécialistes et praticiens du pastoralisme, en témoigne : en Espagne, en France, en Italie, en Roumanie, au Maghreb, en Turquie, au Kirghizistan et au Kazakhstan, éleveurs et bergers sont confrontés à des vicissitudes politiques, économiques, foncières, réglementaires, souvent conflictuelles, remettant partout en cause la place et la pérennité des cultures pastorales. Concurrencés par les pratiques de nos sociétés consommatrices d' espaces, marginalisés par les excès des tenants d'une idéologie verte (écologisme, rewilding, véganisme…), les pasteurs cherchent leur place et posent cette question dont dépend leur survie et leur avenir : où pâturer ? Un travail sur le ton des interventions, leur mise en forme dans un style journalistique, et une grande place donnée à l'iconographie ont contribué au choix éditorial de permettre l'accès du livre à un large public.Save to LibraryDownloadby Guillaume  Lebaudy and +3Pablo Vidal-GonzálezMichael TheveninMohamed  Mahdi•  20  Cultural History, Human Geography, Photography, Cultural HeritageLactation Performance and Milk Constituents of Ongole Cattle in Its Breeding TractA total 62 milk samples from Ongole herd were collected with the objective of assessing milk compositions of Ongole cattle and to investigate the effect of parity and stage of lactation on test-day milk yield and milk constituent traits.... moreA total 62 milk samples from Ongole herd were collected with the objective of assessing milk compositions of Ongole cattle and to investigate the effect of parity and stage of lactation on test-day milk yield and milk constituent traits. Milk compositions were determined by Lactoscan apparatus. The test-day milk yield was 2.78 ± 0.21 kg. Overall least-squares mean for fat, SNF, protein and lactose were 3.31 ± 0.18, 9.34 ± 0.12, 3.51 ± 0.08 and 5.12 ± 0.07 respectively. The analysis revealed that the parity and stage of lactation did not influence the fat, protein, SNF and lactose content and yields.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sudhakar Krovvidi•  2  Animal Genetics, Animal breeding and geneticsPrevalence of the MDR1 gene mutation in herding dog breeds and Thai Ridgebacks in ThailandBackground and Aim: A canine multi-drug resistance 1 (MDR1) nt230(del4) is a well-known inherited disorder that primarily affects collies and various herding breeds. The most recognized clinical implication for affected dogs is associated... moreBackground and Aim: A canine multi-drug resistance 1 (MDR1) nt230(del4) is a well-known inherited disorder that primarily affects collies and various herding breeds. The most recognized clinical implication for affected dogs is associated with an increased risk of multiple drug toxicity. To date, MDR1 gene mutations have been identified globally, especially in dogs from the USA and European countries. This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of MDR1 nt230(del4) in herding dog breeds and Thai Ridgebacks in Thailand.Materials and Methods: We clarified the prevalence of MDR1 nt230(del4) in 263 dogs of eight purebred dog breeds in Thailand using an allele-specific multiplex polymerase chain reaction method and direct DNA sequencing.Results: Rough Collies, Australian Shepherds, Shetland Sheepdogs, and Old English Sheepdogs were affected by the mutation with mutant allelic frequencies of 57.14%, 12.82%, 11.28%, and 8.33%, respectively. Among these populations, the prevalence of the MDR1 (+/–) genotype was 57.14% (12/21) for Rough Collies, 25.64% (10/39) for Australian Shepherds, 16.13% (15/93) for Shetland Sheepdogs, and 16.67% (2/12) for Old English Sheepdogs, whereas the MDR1 (–/–) mutation was only identified in Rough Collies and Shetland Sheepdogs, with prevalences of 28.57% (6/21) and 3.22% (3/93), respectively. However, the MDR1 nt230(del4) was not identified in Border Collies, German Shepherds, White Swiss Shepherds, or Thai Ridgebacks.Conclusion: This study provides the current situation regarding MDR1 nt230(del4) in herding dog breeds in Thailand. In this survey, we investigated for the first time the status of MDR1 genotype in Thai Ridgebacks. These results are helpful for veterinarians managing effective therapeutic plans for commonly affected dog breeds, and these results will encourage all breeders to improve their selective breeding programs based on the MDR1 nt230(del4) status.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  4  Animal Genetics, Animal breeding and genetics, P-glycoprotein, Herding Dog BreedsRabbit Husbandry-A Global Scenarioabbit has been reared and domesticated for long as a game animal followed by its rearing for meat and fur. Rabbit domestication dates back to late middle ages, which were discovered by Phoenicians on the shore of Spain. It were Romans who... moreabbit has been reared and domesticated for long as a game animal followed by its rearing for meat and fur. Rabbit domestication dates back to late middle ages, which were discovered by Phoenicians on the shore of Spain. It were Romans who spread rabbits as game animal throughout. It all started with keeping rabbits in stone walled pens or parks called as leporaria. By sixteenth century several breeds of rabbits were developed through controlled breeding. It is during the same period that rabbit rearing and breeding spread to Italy, France and England. With beginning of nineteenth century rabbit rearing in hutches sprang up all over rural Western Europe and also reached Australia and New Zealand with European colonial expansion. During its initial stage of expansion rabbits were fed on green forage, hay, beetroots and grains. They were reared in backyard along with poultry for meat and fur.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarin Kunnath•Animal breeding and geneticsImplications organisationnelles de la sélection génomique chez les bovins et ovins laitiers en France : analyses et accompagnementLe déploiement de la sélection génomique chez les ruminants s’accompagne de changements organisationnels importants dans les activités de recherche et les activités de sélection. Cet article présente une synthèse des premiers... moreLe déploiement de la sélection génomique chez les ruminants s’accompagne de changements organisationnels importants dans les activités de recherche et les activités de sélection. Cet article présente une synthèse des premiers travaux visant à analyser et accompagner ces changements dans les filières laitières bovines et ovines.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julie Labatut and +3Francis BarilletV. DucrocqLaurent Griffon•  7  Genomics, Dairy Science, Strategic Management, Management of InnovationEstimates of genetic parameters for racing times of Thoroughbred horsesSave to LibraryDownloadby Bulent Ekiz•Animal breeding and geneticsNon-genetic factors affecting pre-weaning growth and morphometric traits in Assam Hill goatAim: This study aimed to determine the genetic and non-genetic factors affecting pre-weaning body weight (BW) and morphometry in Assam Hill goat along with the genetic parameters. Materials and Methods: The detailed information in... moreAim: This study aimed to determine the genetic and non-genetic factors affecting pre-weaning body weight (BW) and morphometry in Assam Hill goat along with the genetic parameters.Materials and Methods: The detailed information in respect of BW and body measurements of 960 animals at birth and 3 months of age belonging to three different populations of Assam Hill goat maintained at field units, namely, Batabari, Nahira, and Tetelia under "All India Coordinated Research Project on Goat Improvement" were utilized in the present study. The data were analyzed using least squares technique.Results: The least squares means for BW, height at withers (HW), heart girth (HG), and body length (BL) were 1.166±0.008 kg, 26.198±0.070 cm, 26.695±0.096 cm, and 29.482±0.119 cm at birth and 4.590±0.083 kg, 36.850±0.105 cm, 40.741±0.115 cm, and 39.703±0.108 cm at 3 months of age, respectively. Location had a significant effect on BW, HW, and BL at both birth and 3 months and on HG at 3 months of age. Season of birth exerted significant effect only on BL at birth, whereas the significant effect of sex was observed on HG and BL at 3 months of age. The heritability estimates for BW and body measurements were moderate indicating the scope of selection. The phenotypic and genetic correlations among BWs and body measurements at birth and 3 months of age were positive in direction and high in magnitude.Conclusion: On the basis of the present findings, it could be concluded that the weaning weight of kids can be considered for the selection of parent stock to increase productivity and eventually the economic efficiency. Further, animals with higher body measurements at initial phases of growth will perform better with respect to even BW at later stages of growth.Keywords: Assam Hill goat, genetic parameters, morphometric traits, non-genetic factors, pre-weaning growth.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  3  Animal Genetics, Animal breeding and genetics, GoatsEconomic values for production and functional traits and assessment of their influence on genetic improvement in the Boran cattle in KenyaSave to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Kahi•  8  Breeding, Kenya, Animal Production, Animal HusbandryGenetic admixture and performance diversity of high yielding dairy cows surrounding the Baghabari Milk Vita areas of BangladeshThis study was planned to clarify the recent milk and reproductive performances of high yielding dairy crossbreds based on various genotype, parity and location beside the Baghabari Milk Vita areas of Bangladesh. Performance records were... moreThis study was planned to clarify the recent milk and reproductive performances of high yielding dairy crossbreds based on various genotype, parity and location beside the Baghabari Milk Vita areas of Bangladesh. Performance records were collected from total 81 crossbred cows from both 15 households in Sirajgonj and Pabna districts, and six bathan areas at Sirajgonj. Genetic admixture of various breeds identified in the studied areas showed diverse performance. Milk production not varied statistically (16.27 to 19.33 liters per day as peak) either for genotype, parity or region but differed in number of AI services for last pregnancy in L×HF×SL (1) and L×HF×JE (2.18) genotypes at household level. Average 70 days observed between the day of calving and next fertile AI service in dairy farming. The study on bathan revealed about 23 months for age at first fertile AI in high yielding dairy cows with average 1.92 AI services per cow for last conceive. Peak milk production identified in HF crossed with local than HF×SL and JE genotypes. Screening, record keeping and controlled AI or mating with specific targeted breed could increase breed uniformity and productivity of high yielding crossbreds not only in Milk Vita region but also other milk pocket areas of this country. In addition, breed composition study is required for ensuring specific breed effects on production performance to design a planned breeding for sustainable dairy breed development in Bangladesh.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ebu Press Ltd•Animal breeding and geneticsصف‬ ‫با‬ ‫بلوغ‬ ‫و‬ ‫روزگی‬ ‫یک‬ ‫سنین‬ ‫در‬ ‫بدن‬ ‫وزن‬ ‫صفات‬ ‫همبستگی‬ ‫و‬ ‫ژنتیکی‬ ‫پارامترهای‬ ‫جوجه‬ ‫ت‬ ‫مازندران‬ ‫بومی‬ ‫مرغان‬ ‫در‬ ‫درآوری‬ ‫ملفه‬ ‫اسدی‬ ‫شریفی‬ ‫سامان‬ * ‫سروستانی‬ ‫کمالی‬ ‫علی‬ ‫،محمد‬ 2 ، ‫لواف‬ ‫ابولقاسم‬ َ ‫کوهپر‬ ‫خزایی‬ ‫حواپایان نامه در مرحله پیشرفتSave to LibraryDownloadby Saman Sharifi Asadi Malafeh•Animal breeding and geneticsGenomic selection in multi-environment plant breeding trials using a factor analytic linear mixed modelSave to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Tolhurst•  2  Animal Production, Animal breeding and geneticsEffect of Strain and Sex on Carcass Characteristics of Three Commercial Broilers Reared in Deep Litter System in the Derived Savannah Area of NigeriaSave to LibraryDownloadby Shola Rasheed Amao•Animal breeding and geneticsCALF FEEDING & MANAGEMENTSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•  36  Management, Animal Science, Animal Behavior, Animal Studies« L’autruche au pays du confit. Oiseau exotique et esprit de terroir dans le Grand Sud-Ouest de la France. », Analíticos, 2, 2020, p. 41-65.The Ostrich in the Land of Confit. Exotic Bird and Terroir Mentality in the Great Southwest of France This paper is a study of contemporary ostrich sector in France, especially focused on the Great Southwest: Nouvelle Aquitaine and a... moreThe Ostrich in the Land of Confit. Exotic Bird and Terroir Mentality in the Great Southwest of FranceThis paper is a study of contemporary ostrich sector in France, especially focused on the Great Southwest: Nouvelle Aquitaine and a large part of Occitanie. It is an historical analysis of the construction and the evolution of this branch of French agriculture that was born in the mid-1980s when Domestic Ostrich hatching eggs were imported from South Africa to obtain a first generation of breeding birds. Pioneers’ intention was to produce ostrich meat as soon as possible. But central administration waited to November 1992 to allow the sale of ostrich meat and to April 1993 to authorize the slaughter of ostriches on the national territory. Following this late decision, ostrich breeding grew significantly within a few years. Domestic ostrich seemed to be a bird with a promising future. Everything changed in the 2000s: French ostrich sector clearly ran out of steam. Representations of the domestic ostrich and its products play key roles in this dynamic. Therefore, this paper is also an anthropological reading of exemplary topics include the legal status of Struthio camelus var. domesticus in France, the consumer attitudes towards ostrich meat, liver and eggs, the evolution of ostrich cooking or the importance placed on origins in the ostrich products market. Beyond the specific case of domestic ostrich in France, this paper tries to remind the usefulness of basic research in the resolution of producers/consumers practical problems.L’autruche au pays du confit. Oiseau exotique et esprit de terroir dans le Grand Sud-Ouest de la FranceCet article est une étude de la filière autruche contemporaine en France, il concerne plus particulièrement dans le Grand Sud-Ouest : Nouvelle Aquitaine et une grande partie de l’Occitanie. Il s’agit d’une analyse historique de la constitution et de l’évolution de cette activité agricole qui est née au milieu des années 1980, lorsque des œufs fécondés d’autruche domestique ont été importés d’Afrique du Sud pour obtenir une première génération d’oiseaux reproducteurs. L’intention des pionniers était de produire aussi vite que possible de la viande d’autruche. Mais l’administration centrale a attendu jusqu’en novembre 1992 pour permettre la vente de viande d’autruche et jusqu’en avril 1993 pour autoriser l’abattage d’autruches sur le territoire national. A la suite de cette décision tardive, l’élevage d’autruches a connu une croissance remarquable durant quelques années. L’autruche domestique paraissait même promise à un très bel avenir. Tout a changé dans les années 2000 : la filière autruche française s’est considérablement essoufflée. Des représentations de l’autruche domestique et de ses produits ont joué un rôle fondamental dans cette dynamique. Par conséquent, cet article est aussi une lecture anthropologique de phénomènes exemplaires, tels que le statut légal de Struthio camelus var. domesticus en France, les attitudes des consommateurs vis-à-vis de la viande, du foie et des œufs d’autruche, l’évolution de la cuisine de l’autruche ou l’importance accordée à la question de l’origine sur le marché des produits de l’autruche. Au-delà du cas particulier de l’autruche domestique en France, cet article essaye de rappeler l’utilité de la recherche fondamentale dans la résolution de problèmes concrets rencontrés par des producteurs ou des consommateurs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Frédéric Duhart•  7  Poultry Science, Anthropology of Food, Ostrich, Animal breeding and geneticsPolymorphism of leptin gene (single nucleotide polymorphisms c.73T>C) and its association with body weight and body measurements in Madura cattleBackground and Aim: Madura cattle is local cattle in Indonesia. This cattle hasphenotypic variations in growth traits. This study aimed to identify leptin (LEP) gene polymorphism exon 2 associated with body measurements in Madura cattle.... moreBackground and Aim: Madura cattle is local cattle in Indonesia. This cattle hasphenotypic variations in growth traits. This study aimed to identify leptin (LEP) gene polymorphism exon 2 associated with body measurements in Madura cattle. Materials and Methods: We recorded body weight (BW) and body measurements of 51 Madura cattle aged 1-4 years in Waru District, Madura. The LEP gene genotyping was conducted using the polymerase chain reaction-restricted fragment length polymorphism method with AciI restriction enzyme. Results: A 267 bp DNA fragment of the LEP gene was successfully amplified using a pair of primers. This study revealed three genotypes (TT, TC, and CC) and two alleles (T and C). The frequencies of TT, TC, and CC genotypes were 0.275, 0.45, and 0.275, respectively, whereas the frequencies of T and C alleles were 0.500 and 0.500, respectively. The c.73T>C mutation was significantly associated with BW, body length (BL), and chest girth (CG) (p<0.05). Among all genotypes, the TC had the highest BW, BL, and CG. Conclusion: Conclusively, LEP gene polymorphism (c.73T>C) exon 2 was polymorphic and associated with body measurements, especially BW, BL, and CG.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veterinary  World•  6  Animal Science, Animal Genetics, Animal breeding and genetics, LeptinDziedziczne zaburzenia u koni związane z umaszczeniemThe aim of this article was to present a group of genetically determined disorders in horses. Some of the genes responsible for coat color in animals, show negative pleiotropic effect at the same time. Among others, there are mutations of... moreThe aim of this article was to present a group of genetically determined disorders in horses. Some of the genes responsible for coat color in animals, show negative pleiotropic effect at the same time. Among others, there are mutations of KIT gene (homozygous lethal white horses), PMEL17 gene (MCOA syndrome in silver horses), EDNRB gene (white foal syndrome in overo horses), TRPM1 gene (associated with congenital stationary night blindness in leopard horses) and STX17 gene (increased incidence of melanoma in grey horses). The relationship between coat color and hareditary abnormalities deserves more attention, as mating individuals of certain genotypes leads to disease risks or lethal effects for the offspring.Save to LibraryDownloadby Katarzyna R Lipka•  4  Genetics, Animal Genetics, Animal breeding and genetics, Horse geneticsGenetic analyses of elbow and hip dysplasia in the German shepherd dogSave to LibraryDownloadby Kathrin F Stock•  9  Animal Production, Multivariate Analysis, Dogs, Animal breeding and genetics(1975) Comparative Mammalian HaematologySave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•  32  Hematology, Animal Science, Cellular Biology, Molecular BiologyESSAI-EXPÉRIMENTAL ET ÉVALUATION DES  PERFORMANCES ZOOTECHNIQUES DE POUSSINS DE SOUCHE "ARBOR ACRES" DANS UN ÉLEVAGE TRADITIONNEL DE DIÉGONÉFLA (CÔTE D’IVOIRE)L’essai-expérimental effectué dans une ferme traditionnelle sur un échantillon de cent vingt-cinq poussins (125) de souche Arbor Acres a donné les résultats qui ont été l’objet d’une discussion. Trois poussins sont morts sur l’ensemble... moreL’essai-expérimental effectué dans une ferme traditionnelle sur un échantillon de cent vingt-cinq poussins (125) de souche Arbor Acres a donné les résultats qui ont été l’objet d’une discussion. Trois poussins sont morts sur l’ensemble des sujets mis en expérimentation; soit un taux de mortalité de 2,4%. Avec une consommation  moyenne hebdomadaire (CMH) égale à 324,09 grammes d’aliment et une consommation moyenne quotidienne (CMQ) de 46,29 grammes à la dernière semaine, on a obtenu un gain moyen hebdomadaire (GMH) de 2372,29 grammes (en poids) à la fin de l’élevage, soit 2,372 kg par poulet. Par ailleurs, le gain moyen quotidien (GMQ) au cours de la sixième semaine est égal à 81,35 grammes et celui obtenu à la fin de l’élevage est de 35 grammes. Tous les indices calculés, relatifs à la consommation hebdomadaire sont représentés par un histogramme qui montre l’évolution statistique du rapport des quantités d’aliment consommé au poids des sujets afin de définir l’efficacité de cette conversion en une production donnée par chaque poulet.The experimental trial carried out on a traditional farm on a sample of one hundred and twenty-five chicks (125) of Arbor Acres strain gave the results that were discussed. Three chicks died on all subjects subjected to experimentation; a mortality rate of 2.4%.With an average weekly intake (MCH) of 324.09 grams of food and a daily average intake (CMQ) of 46.29 grams in the last week, an average weekly gain (GMH) of 2372.29 grams (By weight) at the end of the rearing, or 2,372 kg per chicken. In addition, the average daily gain (GMQ) in the sixth week is equal to 81.35 grams and that obtained at the end of the rearing is 35 grams. All calculated weekly consumption indices are represented by a histogram which shows the statistical change in the ratio of the amounts of feed consumed to the weight of the subjects in order to define the efficiency of this conversion in a production given by each chicken.Save to LibraryDownloadby Open Access Publishing  Group•  23  Social Sciences, Poultry Science, Breeding, Poultry NutritionOsnove felinologije - Basics of felinologyThe goal of this book is to contribute to familiarization with pets and to get cat fanciers acquainted with cat behaviour and necessary knowledge for keeping their cats healthy and in the good condition. During the centuries taking in the... moreThe goal of this book is to contribute to familiarization with pets and to get cat fanciers acquainted with cat behaviour and necessary knowledge for keeping their cats healthy and in the good condition. During the centuries taking in the account all companion animals cats always had one of the most important roles in all aspects of human life. By exploring the literature it could be stated that cats were always subject of human interest throughout whole human history, from the religion to art and further. First records about cat domestication could be found in the ancient Egyptian and Indian documents. First records regarding the cats were registered in China 1000 BC, and after that in other parts of Asia. In Europe intensive cat carrying has started at the end of the 19th century. A merchants brought different cat breeds from all over the world to Europe. Domestication of cat is related to start of agriculture era in human history. Cats were from crucial importance for humans in that period because they protected their grain from pests. Today, there are 70 cat breeds with the big number of different varieties. The fact is that the percent of pure breed cats is very low. The cat carrying is very important in the modern science, especially in application of genetic knowledge in biomedicine.By this book authors want to give a contribution to education of students and cat fanciers from different areas of felinology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vedad Sakic•  7  Animal Welfare, Animal Behaviour, Animals in Culture, Animal HusbandryJaripeo desarmado. Propuesta V01Propuesta acompañando la petición (oficio 24/2017) al Colegio Michoacano de Bioética (Colmibi) de emitir una opinión en tanto cuerpo colegiado del daño que está ocurriendo en los jaripeos y matacaballos, con la nesciencia de autoridades... morePropuesta acompañando la petición (oficio 24/2017) al Colegio Michoacano de Bioética (Colmibi) de emitir una opinión en tanto cuerpo colegiado del daño que está ocurriendo en los jaripeos y matacaballos, con la nesciencia de autoridades civiles y religiosas, en Michoacán y otros estados de la República Mexicana así como de Estados Unidos de Norteamérica.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ana Cristina Ramírez Barreto•  29  Critical Theory, Animal Science, Health Economics, Mexican StudiesPROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS OF RABBIT PRODUCTIONRabbit are small mammals in the family Leporidae of the order Lagomorpha. They are small mammals with fluffy, short tails, whiskers and distinctive long ears. There are more than 30 species around the world. Also the American Rabbit... moreRabbit are small mammals in the family Leporidae of the order Lagomorpha. They are small mammals with fluffy, short tails, whiskers and distinctive long ears. There are more than 30 species around the world. Also the American Rabbit Breeders Association (ARBA) recognizes 49 rabbit breeds.                                                                                                                    Rabbit originally originated from Europe and Africa, rabbits are now found all over the world.                                      Domestic rabbits need a regulated environment to protect against heat exhaustion or hypothermia. Wild rabbits don't have this problem and make their homes in various temperature extremes. Wild rabbits can be found in woods, forest, meadows, grasslands, deserts, tundra and wet lands. Wild rabbits create their own homes by tunneling into the ground. These tunnel systems are called warrens and include rooms for nesting and sleeping. They also have multiple entrances for quick escape. Warrens can be as deep as 9.84 feet (3meters) underground. Rabbit are very social creatures and live in large groups called "Colonies".Save to LibraryDownloadby Faith Eke•  7  Animal Science, Animal Physiology, Animal Production, Animal breeding and geneticsNative species domestic animals in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Autohtone vrste domacih zivotinja)Save to LibraryDownloadby Vedad Sakic•  3  Animal Behaviour, Animal Husbandry, Animal breeding and geneticsTreat Oculocutaneous Albinism with Gene TherapyOculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is a group of hereditary recessive disorder recognized as a loss of pigmentation. OCA can derive from mutations in different genes that produce melanin. These mutations cause disturbances to get a standard... moreOculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is a group of hereditary recessive disorder recognized as a loss of pigmentation. OCA can derive from mutations in different genes that produce melanin. These mutations cause disturbances to get a standard melanin synthesis. There are 7 types of oculocutaneous albinism. These include OCA1, OCA2, OCA3, OCA4, OCA5, OCA6, and OCA7. To help OCA patients, it may include management of such as hats with brims and sunscreens. An effective therapy is unavailable for albinism at present. However, to fight OCA in the future, gene therapy can be used. Gene therapy can include use of such as retrovirus vectors, adenovirus vectors, and CRISPR/Cas9 system. Research results in animal models have shown remarkable advances. It means that the gene therapy will be helpful to treat people with albinism.Save to LibraryDownloadby Martin L Nelwan•  34  Genetics, Medical Sociology, Medical Sciences, Medical AnthropologySumario de Sementales Charolais y Charbray 2014Save to LibraryDownloadby RIOS UTRERA ANGEL and +1Vicente E. Vega-Murillo•  3  Animal breeding and genetics, Beef production, Beef CattleAssessing the Thermo-Tolerance Potentials of Five Commercial Layer Chicken Genotypes Under Long-Term Heat Stress Environment as Measured by Their Performance TraitsSave to LibraryDownloadby Aberra  Melesse•  2  Animal Nutrition, Animal breeding and geneticsHormones & Reproduction Vertebrates Mammals Vol.5 (2011).pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Mohammad Rifky•  33  Veterinary Medicine, Animal Science, Sexual and Reproductive Health, Animal Studiesanimal rehab and learning centerThis study aspires to alter the way people think about animal shelters and rescue centers. By creating a pattern for an animal shelter spaces, recovery, rehabilitation and needed protection for animals. Socialization and education can be... moreThis study aspires to alter the way people think about animal shelters and rescue centers. By creating a pattern for an animal shelter spaces, recovery, rehabilitation and needed protection for animals. Socialization and education can be applied by humankind. Through this space, animals in shelter can be reformed. For domesticated animals the process of rehabilitation will develop the chances of their adoption; and for the wild animals' temporary shelter that encompasses their natural surrounding for their fast recovery until they can be released back to the wild. Through architectural design, it can expand the animal habitat and captivity, promoting human-animal connection, encouraging opportunities for socialization with animals, encourage responsible pet ownership. It is a harmonic built environment not separate or dominant from nature but unified as a whole. It has a two-major structure such as Animal Rehabilitation Center, were animals will be healed and rehabilitate for treatment and a research laboratory. Administrative building with Learning Center, it is a building for learning with educational facilities for academic research and practical training, it is also open for public and other private organization to have field trips, research and could learn more about animalsSave to LibraryDownloadby tyrion lanister•  3  Animal breeding and genetics, PTSD Trauma and Rehabilitation in human and non-human animals, Animal rehabilitation, wildlife diseasesCommunity Based Training Program Phase one for AnSc studentsThe community based training program (CBTP) phase - I was aimed to the identification of livestock production and management related problems in the community.We select as a sample 12 households from Blida kebele. These are the major... moreThe community based training program (CBTP) phase - I was aimed to the identification of livestock production and management related problems in the community.We select as a sample 12 households from Blida kebele. These are the major problems that were identified in the program of CBTP phase I. These are the shortage of grazing land (lack of availability of enough feed and improved type of feed for live stocks), lack of new breed of livestock (For example breed of cattle, sheep, goat, chicken and etc), and there is shortage of services like; AI services, livestock and crop extension visit, lack of training on feed treatment and preparation and also there is a serious lack of insight in to problems of the farmers and so on.Save to LibraryDownloadby Milkessa Tadesse and +1Nuradin Kebede•  20  Animal Science, Climate Change, Animal Behavior, Animal WelfareSNI Jagung.pdfSNI Jagung Bahan Baku Pakan Ternak (SNI 01-4483-2013)Save to LibraryDownloadby Goozinda aryanta•  3  Animal breeding and genetics, Animal Feed, Animal feeding and nutritionKarakteristik itik Tegal (Anas plantyhynchos javanicus)Save to LibraryDownloadby Pita Sudrajad•  2  Animal Science, Animal breeding and geneticsNextLast »Related TopicsAnimal ScienceFollowFollowingAnimal GeneticsFollowFollowingGeneticsFollowFollowingStatistical GeneticsFollowFollowingGENETICS AND ANIMAL BREEDING FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENTFollowFollowingGenome Wide Association Studies (GWAS)FollowFollowingAnimal ProductionFollowFollowingAnimal BreedingFollowFollowingBeef CattleFollowFollowingQuantitative GeneticsFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023