United Kingdom: New Report Finds Only One in 10 Attend Church - Adventist News Network
78 captures
30 Apr 2011 - 09 Jul 2023
Aug
DEC
Mar
13
2010
2011
2013
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wide Crawl started October 2011
  Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from March 2011 using HQ software.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20111213155625/http://news.adventist.org/2007/04/uite-kigom-ew-report-fis-oly-oe-i-10-atte-church.html
 
 
 
PT
IT
  
FR
  
ES
  
EN
 
Home 
About ANN
 
Overview & Method
Staff Directory
ANN Commentary Guidelines
 
Archives
Resources
 
Display ANN Headlines on your site
High Res Photos (Flickr)
Reproduction Requirements
ANN Styleguide
ANN Glossary
Training
 
Contact
 
 
 
 
United Kingdom: New Report Finds Only One in 10 Attend Church
                      Research published this week by the British Charity, Tearfund, makes somber reading for church leaders. It found only one in 10 people in the United Kingdom attend church on a weekly basis even though 53 percent of the British population...
                      
                               4 Apr 2007,
 
 
 
                        Research published this week by the British Charity, Tearfund, makes somber reading for church leaders. It  found only one in 10 people in the United Kingdom attend church on a weekly basis even though 53 percent of the British population identify themselves as Christian.  This reflects a drop of 20 percent from a similar survey conducted just six years ago.The survey of 7,000 representative adults indicated that 26.2 million adults identify themselves as Christians with 7.6 million of them attending church at least once a month.  It also found that 3.2 million adults belong to other faiths and some 19 million (39%) say they have no religion.The Tearfund report paid particular attention to a group of up to 3 million people who said they would attend church "given the right invitation."  As the report puts it, "one in every 17 UK adults are open to churchgoing, if only churches reach out to them." Commenting on the report, Pastor Don McFarlane, president of the Seventh-day Adventist church in the UK and Ireland, stated that, "the report emphasizes the need for Christians to be open to their communities, to develop genuine friendships and to build bridges that will make the church a more inviting home for those who are seeking."Tearfund's president, Elaine Storkey, told BBC Radio Five Live, "the church for a lot of people is a very strange place these days.  They're not familiar with what's going on inside the building, with the form of service, with the way people gather, with what they say, how they pray."Churches such as Beckenham Hope Community Adventist Church have tackled this problem by working in the community, starting a community choir, and listening to the needs of residents.  Leamington Spa Adventist Mission has restructured its service to be a place where a visiting stranger can quickly feel comfortable and become a friend.  "Walk in the front door and you are more likely to be offered a drink and a biscuit then a hymnbook," Robert Pearce told BUC News.  "Worship is really important to us but it comes in a context of being open and friendly, and trying to reduce the 'cringe factors' for those coming in the door for the first time."              Also highlighted in the report is the indication that women are more interested in Christianity than men and that three quarters of those over 65 years old are Christian compared to only one third of 16 to 34 year olds. This is a challenge for Heather Haworth, Children's and Women's Ministries director for the Adventist church in the UK, who feels strongly that, "We must present Christianity in a way which is attractive.  What worked in our youth will not have the same positive effect.  We have to be willing to diversify.  We need to do church for the unbelievers."  Haworth runs workshops around the country on how to connect with the 21st century child.  She also notes an Alpha report in the United Kingdom http://uk.alpha.org/ that most people who accept Christ are under 23.  "These young people are more open minded," she says. "They have a world view of religion and are naturally curious."The research report, "Churchgoing in the UK" is available at http://www.adventistnews.org.uk/news534survey.htm.Stanborough Park, Watford United Kingdom, Victor Hulbert/BUC News/ANN
                       
 
ANN World News Bulletin is a review of news issued by the Communication department of the Seventh-day Adventist Church World Headquarters and released as part of the service of Adventist News Network. For reproduction requirements, click here. The opinions expressed by Commentary authors and sources in ANN news stories do not necessarily reflect those of Adventist News Network© and/or the Seventh-day Adventist© Church.
 
 
 
 
 
 
RSS
@adventistnews on Twitter
Flickr
ANN App for iOS
ANN App for Android
 
    Subscribe via RSS.
  
 
    Follow us on Twitter.
  
 
    See pictures on Flickr.
  
 
    Read our news on your iOS device.
  
 
    Read our news on your Android device.
  
 
Subscribe to News Bulletin
Get weekly e-mails of current stories on the website.
 
Top Stories
 
          Enrollment strong at church's Montemorelos University months after shooting death of student 
            
 
 
          Wilson Skypes Malaysian youth congress, encourages members 
            
 
 
          Obama visit supports Adventist Community Services volunteers in wake of Hurricane Irene 
            
 
 
          Argentinian Adventist university sends first missionaries to 10/40 Window
            
 
 
          Seek a 'life aligned with God's will,' church president for South America says 
            
 
 
          Bus accident shadows Adventist student group's annual outreach event  
            
 
 
          In Dominican Republic, ADRA distributes food to families in wake of Hurricane Irene 
            
 
 
          Inter-American seminary achieves full accreditation status
            
 
 
          Remembrance: Adventist musician Rittenhouse, 88, launched New England Youth Ensemble 
            
 
 
          Annual 'meeting of experts' studies influence of secularism on religious freedom 
            
 
 
 
 
 
Affiliated Resources:   Adventist Review   Global Mission    Adventist World Radio   Hope Channel   ADRA International 
SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTIST CHURCH
© 2010, Adventist News Network. Adventist News Network is a registered trademark of the General Conference Corporation of Seventh-day Adventists. Unauthorized use is strictly prohibited. 
 
 
 
 