Wikipedia:Conflict of interest - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Wikipedia's position
Toggle Wikipedia's position subsection
1.1Purpose of Wikipedia
1.2COI editing
1.3Paid editing
1.4Wikimedia Foundation terms of use
2How to disclose a COI
Toggle How to disclose a COI subsection
2.1General COI
2.2Paid editors
3What is conflict of interest?
Toggle What is conflict of interest? subsection
3.1External roles and relationships
3.2COI is not simply bias
3.3Why is conflict of interest a problem?
3.4Actual, potential and apparent COI
4Dealing with edit requests from COI or paid editors
Toggle Dealing with edit requests from COI or paid editors subsection
4.1Responding to requests
4.2Attribution in edit summaries
4.3Paid editors on talk pages
5Copyright of paid contributions
6Covert advertising
Toggle Covert advertising subsection
6.1US: Federal Trade Commission, state law, and native advertising
6.2European fair-trading law
6.3UK Advertising Standards Authority
6.4Advertising Standards Canada
7Other categories of COI
Toggle Other categories of COI subsection
7.1Legal and other disputes
7.2Campaigning, political
7.3Writing about yourself, family, friends
7.4Citing yourself
7.5Cultural sector
7.6Wikipedians in residence, reward board
8Miscellaneous
Toggle Miscellaneous subsection
8.1Solicitations by paid editors
8.1.1Beware of scams
8.2Law of unintended consequences
8.3No shared accounts, no company accounts
8.4Making uncontroversial edits
8.5Supplying photographs and media files
9How to handle conflicts of interest
Toggle How to handle conflicts of interest subsection
9.1Advocacy, noticeboards
9.2Reporting to the conflict of interest noticeboard
9.3Avoid outing
9.4Dealing with single-purpose accounts
9.5Templates
10See also
11Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Wikipedia:Conflict of interest
56 languages
العربيةAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБашҡортсаБългарскиCatalàČeštinaالدارجةDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoJawaҚазақшаLietuviųമലയാളംمصرىBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपालीНохчийнNorsk bokmålଓଡ଼ିଆOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийScotsShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt粵語中文
Edit links
Project pageTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
WikidataWikinewsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikimedia project behavioral guidelines regarding conflicts of interest
If you want to report a problematic conflict of interest editor, see Wikipedia:Conflict of interest/Noticeboard.
For practical advice for editors who might have a conflict of interest, see Wikipedia:Plain and simple conflict of interest guide
"Wikipedia:CONFLICT" redirects here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:CONFLICT (disambiguation).
This page documents an English Wikipedia behavioral guideline.It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though it is best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page.ShortcutsWP:COIWP:CONFLICT
This page in a nutshell: Do not edit Wikipedia in your own interests, nor in the interests of your external relationships.
Conflict of interest (COI) editing involves contributing to Wikipedia about yourself, family, friends, clients, employers, or your financial and other relationships. Any external relationship can trigger a conflict of interest. Someone having a conflict of interest is a description of a situation, not a judgment about that person's opinions, integrity, or good faith.
COI editing is strongly discouraged on Wikipedia. It undermines public confidence and risks causing public embarrassment to the individuals and companies being promoted. Editors with a COI are sometimes unaware of whether or how much it has influenced their editing. If COI editing causes disruption, an administrator may opt to place blocks on the involved accounts.
Editors with a COI, including paid editors, are expected to disclose it whenever they seek to change an affected article's content. Anyone editing for pay must disclose who is paying them, who the client is, and any other relevant affiliation; this is a requirement of the Wikimedia Foundation. COI editors are strongly discouraged from editing affected articles directly, and can propose changes on article talk pages instead. However, our policy on matters relating to living people allows very obvious errors to be fixed quickly, including by the subject.
When investigating COI editing, do not reveal the identity of editors against their wishes. Wikipedia's policy against harassment, and in particular the prohibition against disclosing personal information, takes precedence over this guideline. To report COI editing, follow the advice at How to handle conflicts of interest, below. Editors making or discussing changes to this guideline or related guidance shall disclose whether they have been paid to edit Wikipedia.
Wikipedia guidelines
Guidelines list
Policies list
Essays list
Behavioral
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Courtesy vanishing
Disruptive editing
Don't bite the newcomers
Don't disrupt to make a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
User pages
Other behavioral guidelines
WMF friendly space policy
Discussions
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Discussions tools
Chekhov's gun
Philosophical razor
Morton's fork
Preparedness paradox
Paradox of tolerance
Willpower paradox
Fredkin's paradox
Abilene paradox
Content
Citing sources
External links
Reliable sources
medicine
Fringe theories
Non-free content
Offensive material
Don't copy long texts
Don't create hoaxes
Patent nonsense
Other content guidelines
Editing
Article size
Be bold
Edit summary
Understandability
Other editing guidelines
Organization
Categories, lists, templates
Categorization
Disambiguation
Style
Manual of Style
contents
lists
tables
Deletion
Deletion process
Speedy keep
Deletion guidelines for administrators
Project content
Project pages
WikiProjects
Templates
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
Other
Naming conventions
Notability
Wikipedia essays
vte
Wikipedia's position[edit]
Purpose of Wikipedia[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not
As an encyclopedia, Wikipedia's mission is to provide the public with articles that summarize accepted knowledge, written neutrally and sourced reliably. Readers expect to find neutral articles written independently of their subject, not corporate or personal webpages, or platforms for advertising and self-promotion. Articles should contain only material that complies with Wikipedia's content policies and best practices, and Wikipedians must place the interests of the encyclopedia and its readers above personal concerns.
COI editing[edit]
See also: Wikipedia:Plain and simple conflict of interest guide
ShortcutWP:COIEDIT
Editors with a COI should follow Wikipedia policies and best practices scrupulously:
you should disclose your COI when involved with affected articles;
you are strongly discouraged from editing affected articles directly;
you may propose changes on talk pages (by using the {{edit COI}} template), or by posting a note at the COI noticeboard, so that they can be peer reviewed;
you should put new articles through the Articles for Creation (AfC) process instead of creating them directly;
you should not act as a reviewer of affected article(s) at AfC, new pages patrol or elsewhere;
you should respect other editors by keeping discussions concise.
Note that no one on Wikipedia controls articles. If Wikipedia hosts an article about you or your organization, others may add information that would otherwise remain little known. They may also decide to delete the article or decide to keep it should you later request deletion. The media has several times drawn attention to companies that engage in COI editing on Wikipedia (see Conflict-of-interest editing on Wikipedia), which has led to embarrassment for the organizations concerned.
Paid editing[edit]
ShortcutsWP:PEWP:PAYWP:NOPRWP:NOPAYWP:FCOI
An editor has a financial conflict of interest when they write about a topic with which they have a close financial relationship. This includes being an owner, employee, contractor, investor or other stakeholder.
Being paid to contribute to Wikipedia is one form of financial COI; it places the paid editor in a conflict between their employer's goals and Wikipedia's goals. The kind of paid editing of most concern to the community involves using Wikipedia for public relations and marketing purposes. Sometimes called "paid advocacy," this is problematic because it invariably reflects the interests of the client or employer. 
The Wikimedia Foundation requires that all paid editing be disclosed. Additionally, global policy requires that (if applicable) you must provide links on your user-page to all active accounts on external websites through which you advertise, solicit or obtain paid editing. If you receive or expect to receive compensation (money, goods or services) for your contributions to Wikipedia, the policy on the English Wikipedia is:
you must disclose who is paying you, on whose behalf the edits are made, and any other relevant affiliation;
you should make the disclosure on your user page, on affected talk pages, and whenever you discuss the topic;
you are  strongly discouraged from editing affected articles directly;
you may propose changes on talk pages by using the {{edit COI}} template or by posting a note at the COI noticeboard, so that they can be peer reviewed;
you should put new articles through the Articles for Creation (AfC) process instead of creating them directly;
you must not act as a reviewer of affected article(s) at AfC, new pages patrol or elsewhere;
you should respect volunteers by keeping discussions concise (see WP:PAYTALK).
Requested edits are subject to the same standards as any other, and editors may decline to act on them. The guide to effective COI edit requests provides guidance in this area.  To find an article's talk page, click the "talk" button at the top of the article. See WP:TEAHOUSE if you have questions about these things. If you are an administrator, you must not use administrative tools for any paid-editing activity (except when related to work as a Wikipedian-in-residence, or as someone paid by the Wikimedia Foundation or an affiliate).
Wikimedia Foundation terms of use[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Paid-contribution disclosure
The Wikimedia Foundation's terms of use require that editors who are being paid for their contributions disclose their employer (the person or organization who is paying for the edits); the client (the person or organization on whose behalf the edits are made); and any other relevant affiliation. This is the policy of the English Wikipedia.
How to disclose a COI[edit]
General COI[edit]
ShortcutsWP:DISCLOSEWP:DCOI
If you become involved in an article where you have any COI, you should always let other editors know about it, whenever and wherever you discuss the topic. There are three venues to do this.
1. If you want to use a template to do this, place {{connected contributor}} at the top of the affected talk page, fill it in as follows, and save:
Connected contributor template
{{Connected contributor|User1=Your username |U1-declared=yes| U1-otherlinks=(Optional) Insert relevant affiliations, disclosures, article drafts or diffs showing COI contributions.}}
Note that someone else may add this for you. 
2. You can also make a statement in the edit summary of any COI contribution. 
3. If you want to note the COI on your user page, you can use the {{UserboxCOI}} template:
UserboxCOI template
Edit the source of your user page and type {{UserboxCOI|1=Wikipedia article name}}, then click "save".
Example
For a COI disclosure, see Talk:Steve JobsIn this edit, one editor added a COI declaration for another editor.
Also, if you propose significant or potentially controversial changes to an affected article, you can use the {{edit COI}} template. Place this at the bottom of the talk page and state your suggestion beneath it (be sure to sign it with four tildes, ~~~~). If the proposal is verifiable and appropriate, it will usually be accepted. If it is declined, the editor declining the request will usually add an explanation below your entry.
Paid editors[edit]
ShortcutsWP:COIPAYDISCLOSEWP:COIDISCLOSEPAYWP:UPE
Further information: Wikipedia:Paid-contribution disclosure
If you are being paid for your contributions to Wikipedia, you must declare who is paying you, who the client is, and any other relevant role or relationship. You may do this on your user page, on the talk page of affected articles, or in your edit summaries. As you have a conflict of interest, you must ensure everyone with whom you interact is aware of your paid status, in all discussions on Wikipedia pages within any namespace. If you want to use a template to disclose your COI on a talk page, place {{connected contributor (paid)}} at the top of the page, fill it in as follows, and save:
Connected contributor (paid) template
{{Connected contributor (paid)|User1=Username of the paid editor|U1-employer=Name of person/organization that is paying for the edits|U1-client= Name of client|U1-otherlinks=Insert diff to disclosure on your User page.}}
The employer is whoever is paying you to be involved in the article (such as a PR company). The client is on whose behalf the payment is made (usually the subject of the article). If the employer and client are the same entity—that is, if Acme Corporation is paying you to write about Acme Corporation—the client parameter may be left empty. See {{connected contributor (paid)}} for more information. Note that other editors may add this template for you. Paid editing without such a declaration is called undisclosed paid editing (UPE).
You are expected to maintain a clearly visible list on your user page of your paid contributions. If you advertise, solicit or obtain paid editing work via an account on any external website, you must provide links on your user-page to all such accounts.
If you propose changes to an affected article, you can use the {{edit COI}} template. Post it on the talk page and make your suggestion underneath it.
The use of administrative tools as part of any paid editing activity, except as a Wikipedian-in-Residence, or when the payment is made by the Wikimedia Foundation or an affiliate of the WMF, is considered a serious misuse and likely to result in sanctions or their removal.
What is conflict of interest?[edit]
External roles and relationships[edit]
ShortcutWP:EXTERNALREL
While editing Wikipedia, an editor's primary role is to further the interests of the encyclopedia. When an external role or relationship could reasonably be said to undermine that primary role, the editor has a conflict of interest similar to how a judge's primary role as an impartial adjudicator would be undermined if they were married to one of the parties.
Any external relationship—personal, religious, political, academic, legal, or financial (including holding a cryptocurrency)—can trigger a COI. How close the relationship needs to be before it becomes a concern on Wikipedia is governed by common sense. For example, an article about a band should not be written by the band's manager, and a biography should not be an autobiography or written by the subject's spouse. There can be a COI when writing on behalf of a competitor or opponent of the page subject, just as there is when writing on behalf of the page subject.
Subject-matter experts (SMEs) are welcome on Wikipedia within their areas of expertise, subject to the guidance below on financial conflict of interest and on citing your work. SMEs are expected to make sure that their external roles and relationships in their field of expertise do not interfere with their primary role on Wikipedia.
COI is not simply bias[edit]
Further information: WP:ADVOCACY
ShortcutWP:COINOTBIAS
Determining that someone has a COI is a description of a situation. It is not a judgment about that person's state of mind or integrity. A COI can exist in the absence of bias, and bias regularly exists in the absence of a COI. Beliefs and desires may lead to biased editing, but they do not constitute a COI. COI emerges from an editor's roles and relationships, and the tendency to bias that we assume exists when those roles and relationships conflict.
Why is conflict of interest a problem?[edit]
On Wikipedia, editors with a conflict of interest who unilaterally add material tend to violate Wikipedia's content and behavioral policies and guidelines. The content they add is typically unsourced or poorly sourced and often violates the neutral point of view policy by being promotional and omitting negative information. They may edit war to retain content that serves their external interest. They may overuse primary sources or non-independent sources, and they may give too much weight to certain ideas.
Actual, potential and apparent COI[edit]
ShortcutsWP:ACTUALCOIWP:POTENTIALCOIWP:APPARENTCOI
An actual COI exists when an editor has a COI with respect to a certain judgment and is in a position where the judgment must be exercised.
Example: A business owner has an actual COI if they edit articles and engage in discussions about that business.
A potential COI exists when an editor has a COI with respect to a certain judgment but is not in a position where the judgment must be exercised.
Example: A business owner has a potential COI with respect to articles and discussions about that business, but they have no actual COI if they stay away from those pages.
An apparent COI exists when there is reason to believe that an editor has a COI.
Example: Editors have an apparent COI if they edit an article about a business, and for some reason they appear to be the business owner or in communication with the business owner, although they may actually have no such connection. Apparent COI raises concern within the community and should be resolved through discussion whenever possible.
Dealing with edit requests from COI or paid editors[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Edit requests
Responding to requests[edit]
ShortcutWP:COIRESPONSE
Editors responding to edit requests from COI or paid editors are expected to do so carefully, particularly when commercial interests are involved. When large amounts of text are added to an article on behalf of the article subject, the article has, in effect, been ghostwritten by the subject without the readers' knowledge. Responding volunteers should therefore carefully check the proposed text and sources. That an article has been expanded does not mean that it is better.
Make sure the proposed paid text complies with WP:WEIGHT.
Look for unnecessary detail that may have been added to overwhelm something negative.
Make sure nothing important is missing. Responding editors should do their own search for independent sources. Do not rely on the sources offered by the paid editor.
Look for non-neutral language and unsourced or poorly sourced content.
Be cautious about accepting content based on self-published sources such as a personal website, or primary sources such as a company website or press release.
If the paid text is added to the article, the edit summary should include full attribution; for example: "Text inserted on behalf of paid editor User:X; copied from Draft:Paid draft." See WP:COIATTRIBUTE below.
Attribution in edit summaries[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Copying within Wikipedia and Wikipedia:Copying text from other sources
ShortcutsWP:COIATTRIBUTEWP:PAIDATTRIBUTE
If editors choose to add material to an article on behalf of a COI or paid editor, they must provide attribution for the text in the edit summary. The edit summary should include the name of the COI or paid editor, a link to the draft or edit request, and that the edit contains a COI or paid contribution. For example: "Text inserted on behalf of paid editor User:X; copied from Draft:Paid draft." This transparency helps editors and readers to determine the extent of COI influence on the article. It also complies with copyright requirements.
Paid editors on talk pages[edit]
ShortcutsWP:COITALKWP:PAYTALK
Paid editors must respect the volunteer nature of the project and keep discussions concise. When proposing changes to an article, they should describe the suggested modifications and explain why the changes should be made. Any changes that may be contentious, such as removal of negative text, should be highlighted.
Before being drawn into long exchanges with paid editors, volunteers should be aware that paid editors may be submitting evidence of their talk-page posts to justify their salaries or fees. No editor should be expected to engage in long or repetitive discussions with someone who is being paid to argue with them. 
Editors who refuse to accept a consensus by arguing ad nauseam may find themselves in violation of the disruptive-editing guideline.
Copyright of paid contributions[edit]
See also: Work for hire
ShortcutsWP:COICOPYRIGHTWP:PAIDCOPYRIGHT
Editors are reminded that any text they contribute to Wikipedia, assuming they own the copyright, is irrevocably licensed under a Creative Commons-Attribution-Sharealike license and the GNU Free Documentation License. Content on Wikipedia, including article drafts and talk-page comments, can be freely copied and modified by third parties for commercial and non-commercial use, with the sole requirement that it be attributed to Wikipedia contributors.
Paid editors must ensure that they own the copyright of text they have been paid to add to Wikipedia; otherwise, they are unable to release it. A text's author is normally assumed to be the copyright holder. Companies sometimes provide paid editors with text written by someone else. Alternatively, a paid editor might write text for Wikipedia within the scope of their employment (a "work for hire"), in which case copyright resides with the employer.
Where there is doubt that the paid editor owns the copyright, they (or the employer or author) are advised to forward a release from the copyright holder to the Volunteer Response Team (permissions-enwikimedia.org). See WP:PERMISSION for how to do this and Wikipedia:Declaration of consent for all enquiries for a sample letter.
If editors choose to add material to an article on behalf of a paid editor, they must provide attribution for the text in the edit summary. See WP:COIATTRIBUTE for how to do this.
Covert advertising[edit]
See also: Wikipedia:Reliable sources § Sponsored content
In short: Avoid hidden advertising.ShortcutsWP:COVERTWP:NOHIDDENADS
US: Federal Trade Commission, state law, and native advertising[edit]
See also: Native advertising, Consumer protection, and Direct-to-consumer advertising
All editors are expected to follow United States law on undisclosed advertising, which is described by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at Endorsement Guidelines and Dot Com Disclosures. The FTC regards advertising as deceptive if it mimics a content format, such as a news report, that appears to come from an independent, impartial source:
Marketers and publishers are using innovative methods to create, format, and deliver digital advertising. One form is "native advertising", content that bears a similarity to the news, feature articles, product reviews, entertainment, and other material that surrounds it online. ...In digital media, native ads often resemble the design, style, and functionality of the media in which they are disseminated. ... The more a native ad is similar in format and topic to content on the publisher's site, the more likely that a disclosure will be necessary to prevent deception. —Federal Trade Commission, 2015
To judge whether an ad is deceptive under the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914, the FTC considers "both what the ad says and the format it uses to convey that information ... Advertisements or promotional messages are deceptive if they convey to consumers expressly or by implication that they’re independent, impartial, or from a source other than the sponsoring advertiser ...".
State law may have similar prohibitions. While the FTC law may apply only to interstate and foreign commerce, state law applies to intrastate commerce and must be obeyed. At least one state court case found liability for an ad disguised as editorial content.
European fair-trading law[edit]
See also: Unfair Commercial Practices Directive
In 2012 the Munich Oberlandesgericht court ruled that if a company or its agents edit Wikipedia with the aim of influencing customers, the edits constitute covert advertising, and as such are a violation of European fair-trading law. The ruling stated that readers cannot be expected to seek out user and talk pages to find editors' disclosures about their corporate affiliation.
UK Advertising Standards Authority[edit]
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) in the UK found in 2012 that the content of tweets from two footballers had been "agreed with the help of a member of the Nike marketing team". The tweets were not clearly identified as Nike marketing communications and were therefore in breach of the ASA's code.
Advertising Standards Canada[edit]
The Canadian Code of Advertising Standards, administered by Advertising Standards Canada, states: "No advertisement shall be presented in a format or style that conceals the fact that it is an advertisement."
Other categories of COI[edit]
Legal and other disputes[edit]
Further information: WP:BLPCOI
ShortcutsWP:COIBLPWP:COILEGAL
The biographies of living persons policy says: "[A]n editor who is involved in a significant controversy or dispute with another individual – whether on- or off-wiki – or who is an avowed rival of that individual, should not edit that person's biography or other material about that person, given the potential conflict of interest."
Similarly, editors should not write about court cases in which they or those close to them have been involved, nor about parties or law firms associated with the cases.
Campaigning, political[edit]
ShortcutsWP:COICAMPAIGNWP:COIPOLITICAL
See also: WP:ADVOCACY
Activities regarded by insiders as simply "getting the word out" may appear promotional or propagandistic to the outside world. If you edit articles while involved with campaigns in the same area, you may have a conflict of interest. Political candidates and their staff should not edit articles about themselves, their supporters, or their opponents. Government employees should not edit articles about their agencies, government, political party, political opponents, or controversial political topics.
Writing about yourself, family, friends[edit]
"WP:COS" redirects here. For the "credible claim of significance" essay, see Wikipedia:Credible claim of significance.
Further information: Wikipedia:Autobiography and WP:BLPCOI
ShortcutsWP:COISELFWP:SELFPROMOTE
You should generally refrain from creating articles about yourself, or anyone you know, living or dead, unless through the Articles for Creation process. If you have a personal connection to a topic or person, you are advised to refrain from editing those articles directly and to provide full disclosure of the connection if you comment about the article on talk pages or in other discussions. Requests for updates to an article about yourself or someone with whom you have a personal connection can be made on the article's talk page by following the instructions at WP:COIREQ.
An exception to editing an article about yourself or someone you know is made if the article contains defamation or a serious error that needs to be corrected quickly. If you do make such an edit, please follow it up with an email to WP:VRT, Wikipedia's volunteer response team, or ask for help on WP:BLPN, our noticeboard for articles about living persons, or the talk page of the article in question.
Citing yourself[edit]
ShortcutWP:SELFCITE
Using material you have written or published is allowed within reason, but only if it is relevant, conforms to the content policies, including WP:SELFPUB, and is not excessive. Citations should be in the third person and should not place undue emphasis on your work.  You will be permanently identified in the page history as the person who added the citation to your own work.  When in doubt, defer to the community's opinion: propose the edit on the article's talk page and allow others to review it. However, adding numerous references to work published by yourself and none by other researchers is considered to be a form of spamming.
Cultural sector[edit]
"WP:CURATOR" redirects here. For the tool used by Wikipedia:New pages patrol, see Wikipedia:Page Curation.
Further information: Wikipedia:GLAM, Wikipedia:Advice for the cultural sector, and Wikipedia:The Wikipedia Library/Cultural Professionals
ShortcutWP:CURATOR
Museum curators, librarians, archivists, and similar are encouraged to help improve Wikipedia, or to share their information in the form of links to their resources. If a link cannot be used as a reliable source, it may be placed under further reading or external links if it complies with the external links guideline. Bear in mind that Wikipedia is not a mirror or a repository of links, images, or media files.
See also WP:Expert editors.
Wikipedians in residence, reward board[edit]
There are forms of paid editing that the Wikimedia community regards as acceptable. These include Wikipedians in residence (WiRs)—Wikipedians who may be paid to collaborate with mission-aligned organizations, such as galleries, libraries, archives, and museums. WiRs must not engage in public relations or marketing for their organization in Wikipedia, and they should operate within the bounds defined by Core characteristics of a Wikipedian in Residence at Wikimedia Outreach. They must work closely with a Wikipedia project or the general Wikipedia community, and are expected to identify their WiR status on their user page and on talk pages related to their organization when they post there.
Another example of acceptable paid editing is the reward board, where editors can post incentives, usually to raise articles to featured-article or good-article status. If you participate in this, transparency and neutrality are key.
Miscellaneous[edit]
Solicitations by paid editors[edit]
In any solicitation sent to a prospective client, paid editors should disclose the following information:
Paid editors do not represent the Wikimedia Foundation nor the Wikipedia editing community, and they have no authority beyond that of any volunteer editor.
Paid editors must disclose their employer, client, and affiliations on Wikipedia. There is no confidentiality for the client.
Paid edits may be reviewed and revised in the normal course of work on Wikipedia.  Neither the client nor the paid editor own the article.
Paid editors cannot guarantee any outcome for an article on Wikipedia. It can be revised or deleted by other editors at any time.
Providing a client with a link to this section is appropriate disclosure if it is done in a neutral and non-deceptive manner.
Paid editors must also provide a link to their user page which includes a declaration of their paid editing status. If an external website claims that a particular Wikipedia editor works for them, but that editor's user page has no such declaration, this is likely to indicate that the website is impersonating that editor.
If you received a solicitation from a paid editor that does not include this information, we recommend that you not do business with them. They are not following our policies and guidelines.
Beware of scams[edit]
ShortcutWP:BEWARESCAM
Further information: Wikipedia:Articles for creation/Scam warning
Some solicitations from paid editors have been linked to fraud; see for example Operation Orangemoody. A large number of businesses claim to offer editing services, but some of these are scams. If someone claims that experienced editors work for them, ask them for the user names of those editors and check the corresponding editor user pages for a paid-contribution disclosure; its absence likely indicates that the claim is false. Offers to guarantee that a page will be saved from deletion, in return for significant sums of money, are always fraudulent, as are offers to use special privileges on Wikipedia.
If you think you've received a fraudulent solicitation, please forward it to paid-en-wpwikipedia.org for investigation.
Law of unintended consequences[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Wikipedia is in the real world
ShortcutWP:LUC
Once an article is created about yourself, your group, or your company, you have no right to control its content, or to delete it outside the normal channels. If there is anything publicly available on a topic that you would not want to have included in an article, it will probably find its way there eventually.
No shared accounts, no company accounts[edit]
Further information: WP:NOSHARE and WP:ORGNAME
Do not create a shared organizational account, or use the name of an organization as the account name. The account is yours, not your employer's.
Making uncontroversial edits[edit]
ShortcutsWP:COIADVICEWP:COIU
Editors who have a general conflict of interest may make unambiguously uncontroversial edits (but see WP:FINANCIALCOI). They may:
remove spam and unambiguous vandalism,
remove unambiguous violations of the biography of living persons policy,
fix spelling, grammatical, or markup errors,
repair broken links,
remove their own COI edits, and
add independent reliable sources when another editor has requested them, although it is better to supply them on the talk page for others to add.
If another editor objects for any reason, it is not an uncontroversial edit. Edits not covered by the above should be discussed on the article's talk page. If an article has few uninvolved editors, ask at the talk page of a related WikiProject or at the COI noticeboard. See also WP:COITALK.
Supplying photographs and media files[edit]
Editors with a COI are encouraged to upload high-quality media files that are appropriately licensed for Wikipedia and that improve our coverage of a subject. For more information, follow the instructions at Commons. In some cases, the addition of media files to an article may be an uncontroversial edit that editors with a COI can make directly, but editors should exercise discretion and rely on talk pages when images may be controversial or promotional. If the addition of an image is challenged by another editor, it is controversial.
How to handle conflicts of interest[edit]
Advocacy, noticeboards[edit]
Main pages: Wikipedia:Neutral point of view/Noticeboard and Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Noticeboard
If a user's edits lead you to believe that they might have a COI (that is, if they have an "apparent COI"), and there has been no COI disclosure, consider first whether the issue may be simple advocacy. Most advocacy does not involve COI. Whether an editor is engaged in advocacy should first be addressed at the user's talk page, then at WP:NPOVN, the neutral-point-of-view noticeboard. The appropriate forum for concerns about sources is WP:RSN, the reliable-sources noticeboard. If there are concerns about sockpuppets or meatpuppets, please bring that concern to WP:SPI.
Reporting to the conflict of interest noticeboard[edit]
Main page: Wikipedia:Conflict of interest/Noticeboard
ShortcutWP:COICOIN
If you believe an editor has an undisclosed COI and is editing in violation of this guideline, raise the issue in a civil manner on the editor's talk page, which is the first step in resolving user-conduct issues, per the DR policy, citing this guideline. If for some reason that is not advisable, or if it fails to resolve the issue, the next step is to open a discussion at the conflict of interest noticeboard (COIN). COIN is also the place to discuss disclosed COI that is causing a problem: for example, an acknowledged BLP subject who is editing their own BLP. Similarly, if you're editing with a disclosed COI, you can ask for advice at COIN.
During the COIN discussion, avoid making disparaging remarks about the user in question, their motives or the subject of the article(s). Post whatever public evidence you have to support that there is a COI, or that it is causing a problem, in the form of edits by that user or information the user has posted about themselves. Do not post private information; see WP:OUTING, which is policy, and the section below, "Avoid outing". If private information must be shared to resolve a COI issue, ask one or more uninvolved functionaries if they would be willing to examine the private details by email. Functionaries are editors with advanced permissions who have signed the Wikimedia Foundation's access to nonpublic information agreement. If they agree, follow the advice in WP:OUTING: "Only the minimum information necessary should be conveyed and the minimum number of people contacted." The priority should be to avoid unnecessary privacy violations.
See WP:FUNC for a list of subscribers to the functionaries' mailing list. Alternatively, the arbitration committee can be contacted by email. If the issue is undisclosed paid editing, there is a dedicated VRT/functionaries email address: paid-en-wpwikipedia.org. Contact them before emailing private information and be guided by their advice.
Avoid outing[edit]
ShortcutWP:AVOIDOUTING
Further information: Wikipedia:Harassment § Posting of personal information, and Wikipedia:Wikimedia Foundation statement on paid editing and outing
When investigating COI editing, the policy against harassment takes precedence. It requires that Wikipedians not reveal the identity of editors against their wishes. Instead, examine editors' behavior and refer if necessary to CheckUser. Do not ask a user if they are somebody; instead one can ask if they have an undisclosed connection to that person. If revealing private information is needed to resolve COI editing, and if the issue is serious enough to warrant it, editors can seek the advice of functionaries or the arbitration committee by email. Also see the section "Reporting to the conflict of interest noticeboard" above.
Dealing with single-purpose accounts[edit]
Further information: Wikipedia:Blocking policy § Disruption-only, and Wikipedia:Single-purpose account
Accounts that appear to be single-purpose, existing for the sole or primary purpose of promotion or denigration of a person, company, product, service, website, organization, etc., and whose postings are in apparent violation of this guideline, should be made aware of this guideline and warned not to continue their problematic editing. If the same pattern of editing continues after the warning, the account may be blocked.
Templates[edit]
Relevant article talk pages may be tagged with {{connected contributor}} or {{connected contributor (paid)}}. The article itself may be tagged with {{COI}}. A section of an article can be tagged with {{COI|section}}
Other templates include:
{{uw-coi}} (to be placed on user Talk pages to warn editors that they may have a conflict of interest)
{{uw-coi-username}} (another Talk page warning, this one for editors whose username appears to violate the WP:Usernames policy)
{{COI editnotice}} (this template goes on article talk pages and gives instructions to COI editors on how to submit edit requests to the article)
{{UserboxCOI}} (for users to self-declare on their own Userpages those articles with which they have a conflict of interest, one such template per article)
See also[edit]
Wikimedia Foundation
Terms of Use#4. Refraining from Certain Activities
Sue Gardner, "Press releases/Sue Gardner statement paid advocacy editing", Wikimedia Foundation, 21 October 2013.
Contact us
Wikipedia:Contact us/Article subjects
Article
Conflict of interest editing on Wikipedia
Policies
Wikipedia:Paid-contribution disclosure
Wikipedia:Username policy
Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not
Wikiprojects
Wikipedia:WikiProject Integrity
Miscellaneous
Wikipedia:About you
Wikipedia:The Wikipedia Library/Cultural Professionals
Category:Wikipedia conflict of interest edit requests (lists edits for review where proposer has a conflict of interest)
Category:Wikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest
Wikipedia:Reward board
Wikipedia:FAQ/Organizations
User:COIBot
Users creating autobiographies (an edit filter)
Statement on Wikipedia from participating communications firms, June 2014
Essays
Wikipedia:Best practices for editors with close associations
Wikipedia:Conflicts of interest (medicine)
Wikipedia:Deceptive advertising
Wikipedia:Don't cry COI
Wikipedia:For publicists publicizing a client's work
Wikipedia:Ghostwriting
Wikipedia:Help available for editors with conflicts of interest
Wikipedia:Independent sources
Wikipedia:Paid editing (essay)
Wikipedia:Plain and simple conflict of interest guide
Wikipedia:Public relations (essay)
Wikipedia:Search engine optimization
Wikipedia:Wikipedia is in the real world
Historical
Wikipedia:WikiProject Cooperation (defunct)
Wikipedia community discussion on paid editing, 2009, sparked by discovery that admin/crat/OTRS editor was editing for pay
Wikipedia community discussion on conflict of interest, 2012.
Wikipedia:COI+ (failed proposal, 21 February 2013)
Commercial editing (failed policy proposal turned into an essay, November 2013)
No paid advocacy (failed policy proposal, November 2013)
Paid editing policy proposal (failed policy proposal, November 2013)
Conflict of interest limit (failed policy proposal, December 2013)
Further reading[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Conflict-of-interest editing on Wikipedia.
(chronological)
Davis, Michael (1982). "Conflict of Interest", Business and Professional Ethics Journal, 1(4), pp. 17–27 (influential). doi:10.5840/bpej1982149
Luebke, Neil R. (1987). "Conflict of Interest as a Moral Category," Business & Professional Ethics Journal, 6, pp. 66–81. JSTOR 27799930 (influential)
Davis, Michael (Winter 1993). "Conflict of Interest Revisited," Business & Professional Ethics Journal, 12(4), pp. 21–41. JSTOR 27800924
Stark, Andrew (2003). Conflict of Interest in American Public Life, Harvard University Press.
Carson, Thomas L. (January 2004). "Conflicts of Interest and Self-Dealing in the Professions: A Review Essay," Business Ethics Quarterly, 14(1), pp. 161–182. JSTOR 3857777
Krimsky, Sheldon (2006). "The Ethical and Legal Foundations of Scientific 'Conflict of Interest'", in Trudo Lemmings and Duff R. Waring (eds.), Law and Ethics in Biomedical Research: Regulation, Conflict of Interest, and Liability, University of Toronto Press.
McDonald, Michael (23 April 2006). "Ethics and Conflict of Interest", The W. Maurice Young Center for Applied Ethics, University of British Columbia.
vteWikipedia key policies and guidelines (?)
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content (?)P
Verifiability
No original research
Neutral point of view
What Wikipedia is not
Biographies of living persons
Copyright (Copyright violations)
Image use
Article titles
G
Notability
Autobiography
Citing sources
Reliable sources
Medicine
Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources
Plagiarism
Don't create hoaxes
Fringe theories
Patent nonsense
External links
Conduct (?)P
Civility
Consensus
Harassment
Vandalism
Ignore all rules
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Edit warring
Dispute resolution
Sockpuppetry
No legal threats
Child protection
Paid-contribution disclosure
G
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers
Courtesy vanishing
Responding to threats of harm
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Deletion (?)P
Deletion policy
Proposed deletion
Biographies
Criteria for speedy deletion
Attack page
Oversight
Revision deletion
Enforcement (?)P
Administrators
Banning
Blocking
Page protection
Editing (?)P
Editing policy
G
Article size
Summary style
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Broad-concept article
Understandability
Style
Manual of Style
Contents
Accessibility
Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists
Classification
Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace
Project content (?)G
Project namespace
WikiProjects
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
WMF (?)P
Terms of Use
List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
List of all policies and guidelines
P: List of policies
G: List of guidelines
Summaries of values and principles
vteConflict of interestIssues
Chinese wall
Conflict of interest in the healthcare industry
Conflicts of interest on Wikipedia
Funding bias
Insider trading
Judicial disqualification
Nepotism
Regulatory capture
Self-dealing
Self-regulation
State capture
Shill
Related
AllTrials
Arm's length principle
Bias
Business ethics
Cochrane
Corruption
Cui bono
Follow the money
Legal ethics
Lobbying
Medical ethics
cases
Medical ghostwriter
Moral hazard
Pharmaceutical marketing
Pharmaceutical sales representative
Pharmacovigilance
Political ethics
Political bias
Revolving door
Sponsorship of continuing medical education
Law
Nemo iudex in causa sua
R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex parte Pinochet (No 2)
R v Neil
R v Sussex Justices, ex parte McCarthy
Media
Bad Pharma
Big Pharma
Inside Job
Side Effects
Who Killed the Electric Car?
Taken for a Ride
 Conflict of interest (category)
 Conflicts of interest on Wikipedia (category)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Conflict_of_interest&oldid=1171506974"
Categories: Wikipedia behavioral guidelinesWikipedia notabilityWikipedia conflict of interest guidelinesHidden category: Wikipedia move-protected project pages
 This page was last edited on 21 August 2023, at 14:35 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width