(PDF) Bronze Age writing by artisans and traders on the Tin Road: Meluhha (Aratta) - Assur – Kanesh | Srini Kalyanaraman - Academia.edu
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
Log InSign UpLog InSign UpmoreJob BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyrightWe're Hiring!Help Centerless
Download Free PDFDownload Free PDFBronze Age writing by artisans and traders on the Tin Road: Meluhha (Aratta) - Assur – KaneshBronze Age writing by artisans and traders on the Tin Road: Meluhha (Aratta) - Assur – KaneshBronze Age writing by artisans and traders on the Tin Road: Meluhha (Aratta) - Assur – KaneshBronze Age writing by artisans and traders on the Tin Road: Meluhha (Aratta) - Assur – KaneshBronze Age writing by artisans and traders on the Tin Road: Meluhha (Aratta) - Assur – KaneshSrini KalyanaramanSee Full PDFDownload PDFSee Full PDFDownload PDFRelated PapersTin Road: Meluhha (Aratta) - Assur – Kanesh. What was traded and documented in writing in Bronze Age?Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFRebus as orthographic metaphor in Indus Script Corpora created metalwork catalogues of Bronze Age RevolutionSrini KalyanaramanIndus Script Corpora recorded metalwork catalogues, while Egyptian hieroglyphs recorded names. Both used rebus principle, 'orthographic metaphor'. Rebus principle in writing systems can be explained as 'orthographic metaphors' or hypertext cipher or hieroglyph-multiplex cipher key in Meluhha speech forms. I agree with Dennys Frenez and Massimo Vidale who see a hypertext formation in an orthographic form of a composite animal made up of body parts. For example the hieroglyph-multiplex on Mohenjo-daro Seal m0300 which ligatures a human face to body parts of a bovine with horns and other attributes. See: http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.in/2015/08/itihasa-of-bharatam-janam-traced-from.html Metaphor is a figure of speech in which a term or phrase is applied to something to which it is not literally applicable in order to suggest a resemblance, as in “TvastA had a son called Tris'iras, 'three heads' (Rigveda)”. One possible explanation is that TvaSTA had three principal functions, as a carpenter, as a smith, as a Supercargo of a seafaring vessel. The 'figure of speech' is for rhetorical effect signifying hidden similarities between two ideas. Bronze Age was an industrial revolution of an extraordinary order. The revolution created a demand for new metal products and supply chains were established by corporate entities called s'reni, guilds of artisans and merchants. When a catalogue had to be prepared for the resources used (mere earth and stone melted in fire, in furnaces) and products produced, words had to be conveyed. Figures of speech or metaphors were a rhetorical means to convey information of such catalogues. A metaphor unlike a simile directly equates two or more ideas. Thus when a feeding trough is shown in front of a wild animal on Indus Script Corpora, the metaphor is a direct equation between two ideas: words associated with hieroglyphs and similar sounding words associated with metalwork. Patthar is a feeding trough. A similar sounding word pattharika is a merchant. Thus an orthographic metaphor is created in an innovative writing system using rebus, that is homonym words intended to be phonetic determinants of the Bronze Age metalwork idea sought to be conveyed. Vasdhaiva kutumbakam is an example of a literary metaphor.This does NOT mean that the globe is literally a family. It is an expression intended to convey that the behaviour of the people within this space (globe) is such as would be seen in members of a family. Takṣat vāk, is a Rigveda expression literally translated as ‘incised speech’. This is a literary metaphor. Such Takṣat vāk as incised hieroglyphs on Indus Script Corpora are signifiers of Meluhha speech related to metalwork. Together the incised words constitute metalwork catalogues. In orthographic tradition of Indus Script Corpora, such metaphors are expressed as hieroglyphs read rebus to signify metalwork catalogues. A Richards (1937) in The Philosophy of Rhetoric explains that a metaphor has two parts: the tenor and the vehicle. The tenor is the subject to which attributes are ascribed. In the Vasudhaiva kutumbakam example, vasudha, 'globe' is the tenor. The vehicle is kutumbakam, 'family'. The objective is to suggest components of behaviour in a family. While a simile asserts similarity, a metaphor compared identical attributes. Rebus is a metaphoric form. An orthographic rebus, as a writing system, uses pictures to represent words or parts of words. Thus a fish as a hieroglyph is a rebus signifier. ayo 'fish' has homonyms aya 'iron' or ayas 'metal'; khambhaṛā 'fin of fish' rebus: kammaṭa 'coiner, coinage, mint'. Thus, by signifying fin of fish, the signifier conveyed is kammaTa 'mint'. Non verbis, sed rebus, is a Latin expression which signifies "not by words but by things'. Orthographic rebus are hieroglyphs signified on Indus Script Corpora. In a writing syste, rebus refers to the use of pictograms to represent syllabic or morphemic sounds or sounds of words themselves used in common parlance, or social conversations. This rebus method is a precursor to the use of phonographs to signify alphabets. Champollion hs demonstrated the use of rebus in Egyptian hieroglyphs. "In linguistics, the rebus principle is the use of existing symbols, such as pictograms, purely for their sounds regardless of their meaning, to represent new words. Many ancient writing systems used the rebus principle to represent abstract words, which otherwise would be hard to be represented by pictograms." https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rebus A statue of Rameses shows: Ra; the child, mes; and the sedge plant (stalk held in left hand). Read together, the sounds signified by the pictures a new word emerges to suggest the name: Ra- mes- su. Thus, what is signified is NOT the sedge plant held by a child, but by similar sounding words for the name of a person: Rameses. Ramesses II as child: Hieroglyphs:Ra-mes-su. Meluhha hieroglyph is a rebus writing system of Bronze Age Ancient Near East Executive summary As Sigmund Freud noted, the dream is a rebus. A rebus is an allusional device that uses pictures to represent words or parts of words. So, too a Meluhha hieroglyph is a rebus, a writing system on Tin Road of Bronze Age extending from Ashur on Tigris river to Kanesh (Kultepe, Anatolia). It is a travesty of scholarship to call such a rebus writing system as 'illiterate' or 'proto-literate' because the rebus method is made up at least two vocables: one vocable denoting the picture and the other similar sounding vocable denoting the solution to the puzzle that is, the cipher. Works of art with picture-puzzles make Meluhha, a Visible language. Rebus, a code of literacy, yields meanings of Meluhha hieroglyphs. Such a cipher is attested by Vātsyāyana (ca. 6th century BCE work) as mlecchita vikalpa (that is, alternative rendering of Meluhha/Mleccha speech or vocables -- and listed as one of the 64 arts to be learnt by youth as vidyāsamuddeśa, 'chief branches of knowledge'). Vocable is a sememe or a word that is capable of being spoken and recognized meaningfully. A vivid representation of the rebus principle of literacy is provided by Narmer Palette. (Egyptian hieroglyphs: N'r 'cuttle-fish' + m'r 'awl' Rebus: Nar-mer, name of king.) A dream is a rebus. History of Civilizations of ancient times has a record of two remarkable dreams: the first is the dream in the Epic of Tukulti-Ninurta and the second is the dream of Māyā, mother of Gautama Buddha. There are thousands of picture-puzzles which occur on cylinder seals of Ancient Near East which are explained on many Museum catalogs as banquet scenes or animal hunts or war scenes. Many of these picture-puzzles are indeed rebus or comparable to the interpretation of dreams and attempts have not been made to identify the possible language groups who might have deployed such picture-puzzles, principally during the Bronze Age. Rebus signifiers and the signified relate to innovations of the Bronze Age such as: bronze/brass alloys to substitute for arsenical copper, casting methods (such as cire perdue casting), alloying ores such as tin, zinc, lead and exchanges along the Tin Road set up by Meluhha artisans/traders also called Assur as metal smelters par excellence. It will be a leap of faith to assume that the picture-puzzles are nonsensical or belong to pro-literate cultures because a contemporary observer is unable to decipher the cipher. While early tokens and bullae (token envelopes) were recognized as ancient accounting methods and categorisation of products, the Proto-Elamite script yet remains undeciphered. Robert K. Englund provides a succinct state of the art report on Proto-Elamite: "(Tokens) These clay objects consist on the one hand of simple geometrical forms, for instance cones, spheres, etc. and on the other, of complex shapes or of simpler, but incised, forms. Simple, geometrically formed tokens were found encased within clay balls (usually called 'bullae') dating to the period immediately preceding that characterized by the development of the earliest proto-cuneiform texts; these tokens most certainly assumed numerical functions in emerging urban centers of the late fourth millennium BCE...a strong argument from silence can be made that Sumerian is not present in the earliest literate communities, particularly given the large numbers of sign sequences which, with high likelihood, represent personal names and thus should be amenable to grammatical and lexical analyses comparable to those made of later Sumerian onomastics...large numbers of inscribed tablets...which for purposes of graphotactical analysis and context-related semantic categorization of signs and sign combinations represents a text massof high promise...we can utilize language decipherments from texts of later periods in working hypotheses dealing with the linguistic affiliation of archaic scribes...There may, however, have been much more population movement in the area than we imagine, including early Hurrian elements and, if Whittaker, Ivanov, and others are correct, even Indo-Europeans. Fn 44. Rubio (1999: 1-16 has reviewed recent publications, and the pioneering initial work by Landsberger on possible substrate lexemes in Sumerian, and concludes that the fairly extensive list of non-Sumerian words attested in Sumerian texts did not represent a single early Mesopotamian language, but rather reflected a long history of Wanderworter from a myriad of languages, possibly including some loans from Indo-European, and many from early Semitic." Major sites of Late Uruk and proto-Elamite inscriptions in Persia Examples of simple (left) and complex (right) 'tokens' from Uruk (digital images courtesy of CDLI). Examples of sealed (top), sealed and impressed (middle) bullae, and a 'numerical' tablet (all from Susa--top: Sb 1932; middle: Sb 1940; bottom: Sb 2313; digital images courtesy of CDLI).Download Free PDFView PDFश्येन syenaciti vedi discovered in Purola, Uttarakhand and links with pola 'magnetite', polad, faulad 'steel', on Vedic River Sarasvati BasinSrini Kalyanaraman"Purola A 12 km drive from Lakhamandal leads to Nowgaon from where a bifurcation through an iron bridge leaves the Yamuna river behind. The landscapes changes and pine adorned grassy valley appears. Purola, fed by the Kamal river, is undoubtedly the biggest terraced rice field valley in the entire state of Uttarakhand. The rice fields, primarily producing the rare red rice, stretch in an area more than 10 km dissected by the Kamal river. Purola is a fast developing market from where a passage leads to the ancient ASI site dating back to 2ndcentury B.C. The Yagya Vedica (burnt brick alter) is unique in its kind resembling a floating Garuda. During excavation a good number of Sunga-Kushana period (2nd century B.C.- 2nd century A.D.) red wares and coins belonging to the Kuninda rulers were discovered. Purola valley is the biggest divide between the Yamuna and the Tons Valley." This map shows the trek route from Naugaon to Har-ki-dun the glacier point closes to Rupin, Supin gaciers which yielded the ancient Vedic River Sarasvati. The route is from Naugaon-Purol-Jermola-Mori-Netwar-Saur-Taluka-Sema-Osla-Harkidun (Valley of the Divinities) http://www.mussooriehandbook.com/index.php/purolaCentrally protected sites(excavated by A.S.I Finds at Purola include Painted Gray Ware dated to ca. 1000 BCE. 24x18 m. vedika discovered in Purola, ca. 2nd cent. BC to 1st cent. CE. Laid out in the east-west direction. "Researchers also uncovered a square central chamber measuring 60 x 60 cm. in the middle of the altar. Excavation of this pit yielded five red-ware miniature bowls containing ash, charcoal, sandy clay and copper coins of the Kuninda period. But the most important discovery was an impressed gold-leaf showing a human figure in flowing apparel. Along with this was found a circular gold pendant and a small piece of a -chain. A lot of charcoal and charred bones were also recovered from the chamber." https://www.facebook.com/ouruki/posts/720924017918479 श्येन [p= 1095,2]m. a hawk , falcon , eagle , any bird of prey (esp. the eagle that brings down सोम to man) RV. &c; firewood laid in the shape of an eagle S3ulbas. (Samskritam) Syena-citi: A Monument of Uttarkashi The first layer of one kind of śyenaciti or falcon altar described in the Śulbasūtras, made of 200 bricks of six shapes or sizes, all of them adding up to a specified total area. PUROLA, District Uttarkashi The ancient site at Purola is located on the left bank of river Kamal in District Uttarkashi. The excavation carried out by Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna University, Srinagar Garhwal. The site yielded the remains of Painted Grey Ware (PGW) from the earliest level along with other associated materials include terracotta figurines, beads, potter-stamp and the dental and femur portions of domesticated horse (Equas Cabalus Linn). The most important finding from the site is a brick alter identified as Syena chitti by the excavator. The structure is in the shape of a flying eagle Garuda, head facing east with outstretched wings having a square chamber in the middle yielded the remains of pottery assignable to circa first century B.C. to second century AD along with copper coin of Kuninda , bone pieces and a thin gold leaf impressed with a human figure identified as Agni have also been recovered from the central chamber. http://www.asidehraduncircle.in/excavation.html s'yena 'eagle' (Samskritam) has a synonym: Hieroglyph: పోలడు (p. 0825) [ pōlaḍu ] , పోలిగాడు or దూడలపోలడు pōlaḍu. [Tel.] n. An eagle. పసులపోలిగాడు the bird called the Black Drongo. Dicrurus ater. (F.B.I.) Allograph: पोळ [ pōḷa ] m A bull dedicated to the gods, marked with a trident and discus, and set at large. Rebus:Russian gloss, bulat is cognate pola 'magnetite' iron in Asuri (Meluhha). Magnetite is the most magnetic of all the naturally occurring igneous and metamorphic rocks with black or brownish-black with a metallic luster. These magnetite ore stones could have been identified as pola iron by Meluhha speakers. Kannada gloss pola meaning 'point of the compass' may link with the characteristic of magnetite iron used to create a compass.pŏlāduwu made of steel; pŏlād प्वलाद् or phōlād फोलाद् मृदुलोहविशेषः ] m. steel (Gr.M.; Rām. 431, 635, phōlād). pŏlödi pōlödi phōlödi लोहविशेषमयः adj. c.g. of steel, steel (Kashmiri) urukku what is melted, fused metal, steel.(Malayalam); ukk 'steel' (Telugu)(DEDR 661) This is cognate with famed 'wootz'steel. "Polad, Faulad" for steel in late Indian languages is traceable to Pokkhalavat, Polahvad. Pokkhalavat is the name of Pushkalavati, capital of Gandhara famed for iron and steel products. Allograph: పొల [ pola ] or పొలసు pola. పొలుసు [ polusu ][Telugu] A scale of a fish. చేపమీది పొలుసు. Tu. poḍasů scales of fish. Te. pola, polasu, polusu id. Kui plōkosi id. (DEDR 4480). పొలుపు [ polupu ] or పొల్పు polupu. [Telugu] Firmness,స్థైర్యము. "పొలుపుమీరిన నెలవంకిబొమలు జూచి, రమణదళుకొత్తు బింబాధరంబుజూచి." Rukmang. i. 158 I am unable to access an image showing the picture of a human figure impressed on a thin gold leaf at Purola. Perhaps, the human figure is comparable to the image of the 'archer' shown on Kalibangan terracotta cake. If so, the image may also be inferred as kamAThiyo 'archer' rebus: kammaTa 'coiner, mint'. Perhaps, the processing done in the fire-altar related to some metallic alloys to create Kuninda type coins. Some coins and some artifacts of PGW sites are dated to ca. 1000 BCE.Download Free PDFView PDFStepped socles of Assur. Meluhha hieroglyphs of metalwork in Kar Tukulti Ninurta.Srini KalyanaramanStephanie M Langin-Hooper (2014) documents seven nemed(u) of Tukulti Ninurta. (Langin-Hooper, Stephanie M., 2014, Performance and monumentality in the 'Altar of Tukulti-Ninurta' in: Osborne, James F., Approaching monumentality in archaeology, IEMA Proceedings, Vol. 3, State University of New York Press, pp. 385-407). Two of these nemedu depict Meluhha hieroglyphs in addition to the inscriptions which specify their significance for worship of Nuska, the divinity of light. Langin-Hooper's insights on the functional context for public viewership are complemented by the rebus readings of Meluhha hieroglyphs which decorate at least two nemedu : safflower, spoked-wheel, stake/stylus, tablet and the worshipful postures of adorants, treating them as objects of worship and celebration of the memory of ancestor Asur. In the context of the Kar Tukulti Ninurta where the seven nemedu were discovered, the functions of the kar and also karum of ancient Near East can also be elaborated in the context of cognate Meluhha gloss: karumā ʻsmith, smelter,ʼ consistent with the rebus readings of hieroglyphs of Meluhha metalwork. A comparable narrative relating a smithy as a temple, also occurs in the hieroglyphs displayed on Sit Shamshi bronze model. Tukulti Ninurta is a worshipper of Aššur the sun deity. See: http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.in/2014/04/tin-road-assur-kanesh-trade.html http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.in/2014/12/vedic-asurta-based-on-svarsur-sun-and.html Vedic asūrta based on svàr/sūr ‘sun’ and Mlecchita vikalpa. Itihaasa of Asur/Bharatiyo metalcasters, as Bharatam Janam Sun worship shown on Sit Shamshi bronze model and the veneration of Ahura Mazda are consistent with the thesis that Asur were Meluhha metalcasters whose tradition lives on with the work of smelting by Asur in India, along the Ganga river basin in sites such as Malhar, Lohardiwa, Raja Nal-ki-tila which have yielded evidence of iron smelting. Meluhha hieroglyphs of metalwork in Kar Tukulti Ninurta are a part of the continuum of Meluhha traditions of worship of the pillar of light, metal castings of the Bronze Age, evidenced along the extensive contact area of Tin Road from Hanoi to Haifa.Download Free PDFView PDFMeluhha artisans in ANE: Sarasvati Script hypertexts from ca. 5th millennium BCESrini KalyanaramanSome hieroglyphs which recur on Ancient Near seals and their Meluhha rebus readings are: bull-man, bull ḍangar 'bull' read rebus ḍhangar 'blacksmith'; ṭagara 'ram' Rebus: damgar 'merchant' (Akkadian) ṭhakkura, ‘idol’, ṭhākur ʻ blacksmith ʼ, ṭhākur m. ʻmaster’.ḍhangar ‘blacksmith’. tiger kol 'tiger' Rebus: kol 'working in iron' lion arye 'lion' āra 'brass'; ārakūṭa (Samskritam) aquatic bird karaḍa ‘aquatic bird, duck’ Rebus: karaḍa 'hard alloy' eagle eraka 'eagle' Rebus: erako 'moltencast copper six hair-curls āra 'six curls' Rebus: āra 'brass' face mũh ‘face’ Rebus: mũh ‘ingot’. stag karuman 'stag' karmara 'artisan' antelope, goat melh 'goat' Rebus: milakkhu 'copper', Meluhha calf khoṇḍ 'young bull-calf' Rebus khuṇḍ '(metal) turner'. scorpion bica ‘scorpion’ (Assamese) Rebus: bica ‘stone ore’,haematite, ferrite ore stalk daṭhi, daṭi 'stalks of certain plants' Rebus: dhatu ‘mineral.kāṇḍa काण्डः m. the stalk or stem of a reed. Rebus: kāṇḍa ‘tools, pots and pans and metal-ware’. twig kūdī ‘twig’ Rebus: kuṭhi ‘smelter’ fish ayo 'fish' Rebus: ayo, ayas 'metal'. overflowing pot lo ‘pot to overflow’ kāṇḍa ‘water’. Rebus: लोखंड lokhaṇḍ Iron tools, vessels, or articles in general. spear మేడెము [ mēḍemu ] or మేడియము mēḍemu. [Tel.] n. A spear or dagger. Rebus: meḍ ‘iron’. ring, bracelet kaḍum a bracelet, a ring (G.) Rebus: kaḍiyo [Hem. Des. kaḍaio = Skt. sthapati a mason] a bricklayer; a mason; star मेढ [ mēḍha ] The polar star (Marathi). [cf.The eight-pointed star Rebus: meḍ 'iron' (Mundari. Remo.) safflower karaḍa -- m. ʻsafflowerʼ Rebus: करडा [karaḍā] Hard from alloy--iron, silver &c. (Marathi) twig kūdī ‘twig’ Rebus: kuṭhi ‘smelter’ frond (of palm), palm tamar, ‘palm tree, date palm’ Rebus: tam(b)ra, ‘copper’ (Prakrit) kuṭhari 'crucible' Rebus: kuṭhari 'storekeeper, treasury' tree kuṭhāru 'tree' Rebus: kuṭhāru ‘armourer or weapons maker’(metal-worker) ram, ibex, markhor 1.ram मेंढा [ mēṇḍhā ] m (मेष S through H) A male sheep, a ram or tup.(Marathi) meḍ 'iron' (Mundari. Remo.) knot (twist) meḍ, ‘knot, Rebus: 'iron’ reed, scarf dhaṭu m. (also dhaṭhu) m. ‘scarf’ (WPah.) (CDIAL 6707) Rebus: dhatu ‘minerals’ (Santali); dhātu ‘mineral’ (Pali) kāṇḍa काण्डः m. stem of a reed. Rebus: kāṇḍa ‘tools, pots and pans and metal-ware’ mountain डोंगर [ ḍōṅgara ] m A hill. डोंगरकणगर or डोंगरकंगर [ ḍōṅgarakaṇagara or ḍōṅgarakaṅgara ] m (डोंगर & कणगर form of redup.) Hill and mountain; hills comprehensively or indefinitely. डोंगरकोळी [ ḍōṅgarakōḷī ] m A caste of hill people or an individual of it. (Marathi) ḍāngā = hill, dry upland (B.); ḍã̄g mountain-ridge (H.)(CDIAL 5476). Rebus: dhangar ‘blacksmith’ (Maithili) dhokra 'cire perdue metallurgist' wing eraka 'wing' eṟaka, ṟekka, rekka, neṟaka, neṟi ‘wing’ (Telugu)(DEDR 2591). Rebus: eraka 'moltencast copper'. snake nāga 'snake' nāga 'lead' frame of building sã̄gāḍā m. ʻ frame of a building ʼ (M.)(CDIAL 12859) Rebus: sangāṭh संगाठ् । सामग्री m. (sg. dat. sangāṭas संगाटस्), a collection (of implements, tools, materials, for any object), apparatus, furniture, a collection of the things wanted on a journey, luggage (Kashmiri) jangaḍ 'entrustment note' (Gujarati) sangar 'trade'. monkey kuṭhāru = a monkey (Sanskrit) Rebus: kuṭhāru ‘armourer or weapons maker’(metal-worker), also an inscriber or writer. kick kolsa 'to kick' Rebus: kol working in iron, blacksmith foot . khuṭo ʻ leg, foot ʼ Rebus: khũṭ ‘community, guild’ (Santali) copulation (mating) kamḍa, khamḍa 'copulation' (Santali) Rebus: kampaṭṭa ‘mint, coiner’ adultery ṛanku, ranku = fornication, adultery (Telugu) ranku 'tin' antelope ranku 'antelope' Rebus: ranku 'tin' sũb 'cord, string' Rebus: शुल्वम् śulvam (ल्बम् lbam) 'copper’ barad 'bull' Rebus: bharat 'alloy of copper, pewter, tin' arka 'sun' Rebus: arka, eraka 'copper, moltencast, gold' garuḍa 'eagle' kāraNḍava 'aquatic bird' karaḍi 'safflower' Rebus: karaḍa 'hard alloy' baṭa 'quail' Rebus: bhaṭa 'furnace' ḍāng 'mountain range' Rebus: dhangar 'blacksmith' rango 'buffalo' Rebus: rango 'pewter, a grey alloy of tin with copper and antimony (formerly, tin and lead).' In this monograph, evidence is presented of 1. hieroglyphs dul polad kammaṭa 'cast steel mint' on Nahal Mishmar bronze crown & lokhāṇḍā hypertext overflowing pot. Date of Nahal Mishmar cire perdue artifacts Dhokra cire perdue (lost-wax) is a brilliant bronze age invention and should herald a new approach to explain the hieroglyphs on thousands of cylinder seals of the Fertile Crescent right from the chalcolithic times (ca. 5th millennium BCE -- now based on Nahal Mishmar new carbon-14 datings) into the bronze age. http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.in/2014/01/meluhha-dhokra-art-from-5th-millennium.html It is hypothesised that the Nahal Mishmar artifacts were carried as utsava bera, procession of hieroglyphs/hypertexts to signify the artisanal metallurgical competence. utsava is a Rgveda expression: उत्-सव a [p= 182,1] m. enterprise , beginning RV. i , 100 , 8 ; 102 , 1; a festival , jubilee. *உற்சவபேரம் uṟcava-pēram , n. < ut-sava + bēra. Idol taken out in processions; உற்சவ விக்கிரகம். Loc.; பேரம்¹ pēram, n. < Pkt. bēra. [T. bēramu, K. bēra.] 1. Sale, trade; விற்பனை. 2. Bargaining, higgling and haggling; பேரம்² pēram , n. < bēra. 1. Form, shape; வடிவம். (நன். 273, மயிலை.) 2. Body; உடம்பு. 3. Idol; விக்கிரகம். உத்ஸவபேரம்; யாகபேரம் yāka-pēram n. < id. + bēra. The idol that presides over the sacrificial hall of a temple; கோயிலுள் யாகசாலைக்குரிய மூர்த்தி. Loc. "Carbon-14 dating of the reed mat in which the objects were wrapped suggests that it dates to at least 3500 B.C." http://www.metmuseumorg/toah/hd/nahl/hd_nahl.htm " I-1819, which comes from a piece of cloth found in a burial in nearby Cave 2, is slightly younger, but another short-lived sample, I-616 from the Cave of Horror at Nahal Hever, gave a result in the late 5th millennium." https://journals.uair.arizona.edu/index.php/radiocarbon/article/viewFile/879/884 תודה על המאמר. מעיון ראשון, ההתיחסות למטמון נחל משמר מענינת אבל דורשת עדכון- סדרת תאריכי פחמן חדשה יחסית (2011) מצביעה על 4400± לפנה״ס, לא סוף האלף ה ד׳. להתראות, עוזי. ………………..Dr. Uzi Avner I deeply appreciate the help provided by Dr. Uzi Avner for this update. "Used by Sumerians and other Mesopotamian cultures beginning in the third millennium BC, clay nails, also referred to as dedication or foundation pegs, cones, or nails, were cone-shaped nails made of clay, inscribed with cuneiform, baked, and stuck into the mud-brick walls to serve as evidence that the templeor building was the divine property of the god to whom it was dedicated." (Edward Chiera (1938). George G. Cameron, ed. They Wrote on Clay. Babylonian Tablets Speak Today. University of Chicago Press. p. 93.)Download Free PDFView PDFHieroglyphmultiplextext sãgaḍ vākyam सङ्गडवाक्यम्  'joined animal, what is spoken', 'trade caravan, message' and decipherment of Indus Script CorporaSrini KalyanaramanHieroglyphmultiplextext is evidenced by Meluhha trade caravan signified by: sãgaḍ māṇi 'alloying adamantine glue, सं-घात caravan standard' -- vajra saṁghāṭa in archaeometallurgy, deciphered in Indus Script Corpora. Enhanced encryption cyber-security. Indus Script Corpora are metalwork catalogues. The unique encryption cipher of hieroglyphmultiplextext is a contribution to enhanced cyber-security encryptions in cryptography sãgaḍ f. ʻa body formed of two or more fruits or animals or men &c. linked together' (Marathi). This gloss sãgaḍ as a body of written or pictorial material of hieroglyphs (voiced in Meluhha speech) can be used to create a ciphertext with elements of enhanced cyber-security encryptions. This ciphertext can be called: Hieroglyphmultiplextext. In Egyptian hieroglyhphic tradition, nomes were used as sacred symbols and for administrative jurisdictions. In Indian sprachbund tradition evidenced on Indus Script Corpora, hieroglyphmultiplextexts were deployed as nomes and gnomes were used to signify metalwork making the Indus Script Corpora catalogus catalogorum. A gnome /ˈnoʊm/is a diminutive spirit in Renaissance magic and alchemy, first introduced by Paracelsus in the 16th century and later adopted by more recent authors including those of modern fantasy literature. Its characteristics have been reinterpreted to suit the needs of various story tellers, but it is typically said to be a small, humanoid creature that lives underground. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gnome In Indian sculptural tradition, gaNa were depicted as dwarfs sustaining architectural monuments. It is also possible to relate gaNa as gnomes of the Indian tradition of archaeometallurgy of the Bronze Age. Latin gēnomos (itself represents a Greek γη-νομος, literally "earth-dweller"). The gaNa guard mines and precious treasures such as those emerging from samudramanthanam and creating Kubera's navanidhi, nine treasures. sãgaḍ is demonstrated in this monograph as the enhancement and application of nome hieroglyphs to writing or documentation systems. Greek term for "law" (νόμος, nómos; pl. νόμοι, nómoi). It is the origin of the suffix -onomy, as in astronomy, economy, or taxonomy. A nome (/noʊm/;from Greek: Νομός, “district”) was an autonomous city-state, or subnational administrative division of ancient Egypt of the predynastic period, i.e. before 3100 BCE. The tradition of nomes continued into Roman times when nome coins were minted by individual nomes reflecting local associations as administrative units. These were called janapada in the tradition of Indian sprachbund. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nome_(Egypt) For details of the nomes including signifying hieroglyhphs, see: http://www.narmer.pl/map/nomy_en.htm An early form of hieroglyhphmultiplextext is provided by Narmer palette of 31st cent. BCE. It should be noted that the Indus Writing is evidenced ca. 3500 BCE on a potsherd reported from Harappa by HARP. The debate on relative chronologies and evolution of Indus writing and Egyptian hieroglyphic writing system and spread in Sumer-Elam-Mesopotamia and into the Fertile Crescent along the Tin Road from Hanoi to Haifa, need not detain us here. The objective of this monograph is to demonstrate hieroglyphmultiplextext as a unique cipher, a remarkable contribution to encryption methods and Crytography. The palette also shows procession of standards with nomes. The centre-piece of the palette is a hieroglyphmultiplex signifying: Nar-mer using hierolyphs as signifiers: nar 'cuttle-fish, mer 'awl': This Egyptian model provides the simple prototype for the simple cipher of Indus Script Corpora: joining together hieroglyphs, the message gets encrypted, carved in writing deciphered as rebus-metonymy-layered-meluhha (the process called mlecchita vikalpa, cipher-writing -- one of 64 arts listed by Vatsyayana). Hieroglyphmultiplextext or, sãgaḍ is suggested on the lines proposed by Theodor Holm Nelson who invented the word 'hypertext' and noted: "(hypertext)...as a body of written or pictorial material interconnected as 'a body of written or pictorial material interconnected in such a complex way that it could not conveniently be presented or represented on paper."(Nelson, TH, 'The hypertext', in Proceedings of the World Documentation Federation, 1965; TH Nelson, 'A file structure for the Complex, the changing and the indeterminate', in Proceedings of the 20th ACM National Conference, New York, Association for Computing Machinery, 1965, p. 84-100.) It is suggested that for enhanced cyber-security for Information Technology or rapidly evolving Computer-wireless, cell-phone or tablet cloud applications, the hieroglyphmultiplextext can be deployed as a cipher composed of hieroglyphs rendered in rebus-metonymy-layered-Meluhha or mlecchita vikalpa. This unique writing system of the Bronze Age developed in Sarasvati-Sindhu (Hindu) Civilization over 5,500 years ago (ca. 3500 BCE) can be a model for multi-layered ciphers creating tighter, unambiguous encryptions, to enhance cyber-security. Two examples of Hieroglyphmultiplextext may be cited from Indus Script Corpora: 1. Daimabad seal with written sign (hieroglyph); 2. Dwaraka turbinella pyrum seal with three joined animals to a bovid body. Daimabad seal with the most frequently used 'sign' on Indus Script Corpora. It is a hierolyph signifying SPECIFICALLY 'rim of jar'; that is, not merely, the jar but the rim of the jar. Dwaraka 1 seal of turbinella pyrum: Ligaturing to the body of an ox: a head of one-horned young bull, and a head of antelope. Thus, there are three hieroglyphs signifying: ox, young bull and antelope. In the tradition of Bharatam Janam, this hieroglyphmultiplextext is referred to as mlecchitavikalpa, 'cipher writing' by Vatsyayana. The presentation or representation on paper results from the application of the rebus-metonymy-layered cipher to reproduce the plaintext. This definition is applied for arriving at the plaintexts of Indus Script Corpora as catalogues of metalwork: catalogus catalogorum. In the context of Indus Script Corpora, this word 'hypertext' is further refined as: 'hieroglyphmultiplextext'. 'Hieroglyphmultiplextext' can also be called 'hyperciphertext' defined as a body of written or pictorial material of hieroglyphs in such a complex interconnected way that it constitutes a rebus-metonymy-layered cipher, constituting a ciphertext'. Sucha hyperciphertext may is elaborated as'hieroglyph multiplex ciphertext' when a number of hieroglyphs are presented in a complex interconnected pictorial material. "Nome-symbols.I do not suggest that Mohenjo-daro had anciently any considerable connection with Egypt. But in some small respects the beliefs of the two peoples were clearly similar. The facts that at Mohenjo-daro certain animals were probably sacred, that a cult object was associated with the chief of them, and that both animal and cult object were sometimes carried on standards in procession, are strongly reminiscent of the practice of ancient Eypt, where cult objects were always associated with the sacred or 'nome' animals carried there on standards." (Marshall, John, Hubert, 1931, Mohenjo-Daro and the Indus Civilization: Being an Official Account of Archaeological Excavations at Mohenjo-Daro Carried Out by the Government of India Between the Years 1922 and 1927, Delhi, Repr. AES, p.385) Two Mohenjo-daro tablets showing a procession of four standard bearers; the four standards are: lathe, one-horned young bull; scarf; spoked-circle (knave + spokes). All four are hieroglyphs read rebus related to lapidary/smith turner work on metals and minerals (copper 'eraka', brass 'ara', dhatu 'ores') Inscribed Tablets. Pict-91 (Mahadevan) m0490At m0490B Mohenjodaro Tablet showing Meluhha combined standard of three standards carried in a procession, comparable to Tablet m0491. The hieroglph multiplex: sãgaḍ 'lathe, portable furnace' PLUS a standing person with upraised arm: eraka 'upraised arm' rebus: eraka 'moltencast (metal)'. Semantics of a standard: Hieroglyph: M. māṇ f. ʻ broadmouthed earthen vessel (usu. for water) ʼ; G. māṇi f. ʻmetal waterpotʼ(CDIAL 10041). Rebus: māˊna ʻ measure, standard ʼ RV., mānaka -- 2 n. ʻ measure, weight ʼ, G. māṇi n. ʻboundaryʼ(CDIAL 10041) Thus, a broadmouthed pot, māṇ signifies māˊna 'standard'; māṇi ʻboundaryʼ. Read with sãghāṛɔ, sãgaḍ 'lathe' PLUS māṇi 'broad-mouthed pot (bottom register), the hieroglyph multiplex reads rebus: saṁghāṭa māna 'alloying, cementite (adamantine glue) standard' -- described by Varahamihira in archaeometallurgical tradition as vajrasaṁghāṭa. The lathe on the Indus Script Corpora of Sarasvati-Sindhu (Hindu) civilization is used by the lapidary-smith for fitting and joining of wood and metal: saṁghāṭa m. ʻ fitting and joining of timber ʼ R. [√ghaṭ]Pa. nāvā -- saṅghāṭa -- , dāru -- s° ʻ raft ʼ; Pk. saṁghāḍa -- , °ḍaga -- m., °ḍī -- f. ʻ pair ʼDownload Free PDFView PDFIndus Script on Maritime Tin Road, Persian Gulf seals. Goat-fish hieroglyphs, metalwork catalogues.Srini Kalyanaramanశంకరనారాయణ తెలుగు-ఇంగ్లీష్ నిఘంటువు 1953 (Telugu-English lexicon) provides evidence of a remarkable gloss: కుటి kuṭi 'the woman water carrier who carries water in a leather bag.' Water-carrier of bhestie. http://www.oldindianarts.in/2012/03/illustrations-from-book-india-1876-part.html బిస్తి, బిహిస్తి . Even though it was a circular seal from Ur (Upenn; U.16747), Ancient Near East, CJ Gadd recognized it an Indus Script seal because of the hieroglyphs used on the seal inscription: water-carrier, two stars and a parenthesis which is a split oval or lozenge shape. Similarly, there are nearly 2000 inscriptions on so-called Dilmun or Persian Gulf seals which are circular in shape but use Indus Script hieroglyphs. The Persian Gulf is a segment of the Maritime Tin Route for seafaring Meluhha merchants transporting tin from the tin-belt of the world, Mekong river delta, exemplified by the stunning Dong Son bronze drums of Vietnam and bronze cire perdue artifacts from Bon Chiang, Thailand of a period earlier than 3rd millennium BCE, predating the Silk Road. Water-carrier as a hieroglyph of Indus Script Corpora kut.i = a woman water-carrier (Telugu.) kut.i = to drink; drinking, beverage (Ta.); drinking, water drunk after meals (Ma.); kud.t- to drink (To.); kud.i to drink; drinking (Ka.); kud.i to drink (Kod.); kud.i right, right hand (Te.); kut.i_ intoxicating liquor (Samskritam)(DEDR 1654). कुट [p= 288,1] a water-pot , pitcher L.kuṭi 'water-carrier' (Telugu) kuṭa1 m.n. ʻ water -- pot, pitcher ʼ Yaśast., kūṭa -- 5 n. lex., kuḍikā -- f. lex. 1. Pa. kuṭa -- m.n. ʻ pitcher ʼ; NiDoc. kuḍ'a ʻ waterpot ʼ, Pk. kuḍa -- m.; Paš. kuṛã̄ ʻ clay pot ʼ (or < kuṇḍá -- 1); Kal. kŕūŕi ʻ milking pail ʼ; H. kuliyā f. ʻ small earthen cup ʼ; Si. kuḷāva ʻ pot, vessel for oil ʼ (EGS 47 wrongly < kaṭāha -- ), kaḷa -- geḍiya ʻ waterpot ʼ, kaḷaya (or < kaláśa -- ).2. Pa. kuṭava -- ʻ nest ʼ (semant. cf. N. gũṛ s.v. kuṇḍá -- 1); Or. kuṛuā ʻ tall red earthen pot for cooking curry and rice offerings in the temple at Puri ʼ. 3. Pk. kōḍaya -- , °ḍia -- n. ʻ small earthen pot ʼ; Dm. kōŕí ʻ milking pail ʼ; G. koṛiyũ n. ʻ earthen cup for oil and wick ʼ; M. koḍẽ n. ʻ earthen saucer for a lamp ʼ. OMarw. (Vīsaḷa) loc.sg.m. kūṛaï ʻ pot ʼ; G. kuṛlī f. ʻ small pitcher ʼ.(CDIAL 3227)Ta. kuṭam waterpot, hub of a wheel; kuṭaṅkar waterpot; kuṭantam pot; kuṭantai Kumbakonam (old name); kuṭukkai coconut or other hard shell used as vessel, pitcher; kuṭikai ascetic's pitcher; kuṭuvai vessel with a small narrow mouth, pitcher of an asectic. Ma. kuṭam waterpot; kuṭukka shells (as of gourds) used as vessels, small cooking vessel with narrow mouth; kuṭuka, kuṭuva small vessel. Ko. koṛm (obl. koṛt-) waterpot with small mouth; ?kuck small clay pot used to drink from (? < *kuṭikkay). To. kuṛky smallpot. Ka. koḍa earthen pitcher or pot; kuḍike small earthen, metal, or wood vessel;guḍuvana, guḍāṇa large water-vessel, used also for storing grain; earthen pot used for churning. Koḍ. kuḍike pot in which food (esp. rice) is cooked. Tu.kuḍki, kuḍkè, guḍke small earthen vessel. Te. kuḍaka, kuḍuka cup, bowl, scoop, any cup-like thing; guḍaka a coconut or other similar shell; (B) guḍaka, kuḍaka shell of a fruit prepared to serve as a snuff-box, etc., small metal box; (Inscr.) kuḍalu small earthen vessels. Kuwi (Su.) ḍōka, (S.) ḍoka, (F.) dōkkapot (Te. kuḍaka > *kḍōka > ḍōka). / Cf. Skt. kūṭa- waterpot (DEDR 1651)Download Free PDFView PDFAntithetical antelopes Indus Script hypertext from United Arab Emirates, Failaka; dul milakkhu sippi 'copper casting sculptor'Srini KalyanaramanStone grave engraved with two Oryx antelopes, Hili Archeological Park, Al Ain, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Arabia dula 'pair' rebus: dul 'cast metal' mlekh 'goat' rebus: milakkhu 'copper'. Two standing persons are signified: dula 'pair' dul 'cast metal' kAraNika 'spread legs' rebus: karNI 'Supercargo'. Thus copper metal caster, Supercargo, seafaring merchant of cast metal (copper). Dilmun seal from Bahrain. करडूं karaḍū 'kid' rebus karaḍā 'hard alloy' dula 'pair' rebus: dul 'cast metal' meD 'body' rebus: med 'iron' kAraNika 'spread legs' rebus: karNI 'Supercargo'-- a representative of the ship's owner on board a merchant ship, responsible for overseeing the cargo and its sale. A pair of antelopes sculpture. From the cover page of: D.T. Potts, H. Naboodah and P. Hellyer (eds.), 2003, Archaeology of the United Arab Emirates: Proceedings of the First International Conference on the Archaeology of the UAE, Trident Press Ltd., London. Fig. 96f: Failaka no. 260 Double antelope at the belly in the Levant similar doubling occurs for a lion Kt. křum; -- Kho. krəm ʻ back ʼ NTS ii 262 with (?): see *kamra -- ; -- Paš. *krōnd -- IIFL iii 3, 111(< *kū/aurmānta -- ?) in lauṛ. lūnd ʻ roof ʼ, gul. kundūr, lagh.ṣōnd, nir. lūn, kuṛ. lēn, ar. plen, obl. plendə.(CDIAL 3415)] kiammaru 'turn back' rebus: karmAra, kamar 'artisan'. dula 'pair' rebus: dul 'cast metal' mlekh 'goat' rebus: milakkhu 'copper' sippi 'snail' rebus: s'ilpi, sippi 'sculptor, artificer, artisan'. Back-to-back combination of the two goats may signify the use of cire perdue (lost wax) technique of metal casting as a mirror image created in wax and replicated in metal as the molten metal is poured into the sculptured wax model pasted with river-bed fine clay. Thus,, dul milakkhu sippi constitutes an Indus Script hypertext to signify 'copper casting sculptor'.Download Free PDFView PDFThree Susa inscriptions validate Indus metalwork & Script decipherment, Chanhu-daro snarling iron, metal alloy work of Bharatam JanamSrini KalyanaramanA note on the snarling iron discovered by Paul Yule is appended. The snarling iron is the key instrument of a smith working in a forge. It is the anvil. It defines the occupation of अधिकरणम् -लेखकः a.official recorder or scribe who has left for posterity the Bharata Nidhi of over 7000 Indus Script inscriptions, providing for data mining of the splendour achieved during the Bronze Age by Bharatam Janam, the metalcaster folk celebrated by Rishi Visvamitra in Rigveda (RV 3.53.12)viśvāmitrasya rakṣati brahmedam bhārataṃ janam || This mantra (brahma) of Visvamitra protects the people of Bharatam. This is an emphatic Rigvedic self-identification of the people who worked with ayas 'metal'. Anvil of a farrier (specialist in equine foot care) How did the anvil of Bharatam Janam, metalcaster folk of ancient times look like? Was it like a rod ingot (say, of bronze, brass or hard copper)? Adhikaraṇī (f.) [to adhikaraṇa 1, orig. meaning "serving, that which serves, i. e. instrument"] a smith's anvil J iii.285; Dāvs iii.16 sq.; DhsA 263.(Pali) Semantic expansion: Adhikaraṇa (nt.) [adhi + karaṇa] 1. attendance, super- vision, management of affairs, administration PvA 209. <-> 2. relation, reference, reason, cause, consequence D ii.59 ( -- ˚: in consequence of); S ii.41; v.19. Esp. acc. ˚ŋ as adv. ( -- ˚) in consequence of, for the sake of, because of, from M i.410 (rūpâdhikaraṇaŋ); S iv.339 (rāga˚); Miln 281 (mudda˚ for the sake of the royal seal, orig. in attendance on the r. s.). Kimâdhikaraṇaŋ why, on account of what J iv.4 (= kiŋkāraṇaŋ) yatvâdhikaraṇaŋ (yato + adhi˚) by reason of what, since, because (used as conj.) D i.70 = A i.113 = ii.16 = D iii.225. -- 3. case, question, cause, subject of discussion, dispute. There are 4 sorts of a. enumd. at var. passages, viz. vivāda˚ anuvāda˚ āpatta˚ kicca˚"questions of dispute, of censure, of misconduct, of duties" Vin ii.88; iii.164; iv.126, 238; M ii.247. <-> Often ref.: Vin ii.74; S iv.63 = v.346 (dhamma˚ a question of the Dh.); A i.53 (case), 79; ii.239 (vūpasanta); v.71, 72; Pug 20, 55; DhA iv.2 (˚ssa uppamassa vūpasama), adhikaraṇaŋ karoti to raise a dispute M i.122 ˚ŋ vūpasameti to settle a question or difficulty Vinii.261. -- kāraka one who causes dispute discussions or dissent Vin iv.230 (f. ˚ikā); A iii.252. -- samatha the settlings of questions that have arisen. There are seven rules for settling cases enumd. at D iii.254; M ii.247; A i.99; iv.144. अधि adhiअधि ind. 1 (As a prefix to verbs) over, above; (अधिकार); ˚स्था to stand over; ˚कृ to place over or at the head of; अधि-करण a receptacle , support अधिकरणम् -लेखकः a.official recorder or scribe, who drew up sale-deeds and other documents after getting the land measured in his presence; RT.VI.38.अधिकरणिकः [अधिकरणम् आश्रयतया अस्त्यस्य ठन्] 1 A judge, magistrate. अहो व्यवहारपराधीनतया दुष्करं खलु परचित्त- ग्रहणमधिकरणिकैः Mk.9. -2 A government official. अधिकरणिक पु० अधिकरणम् धर्म्माधिकरणम् आश्रयतया- ऽस्त्यस्य ठन् । विचारकरणाय धर्म्माधिकरणमण्डपे नियुक्ते प्राड्विवाकादौ । तत्र नियुक्तः ठक् । आधिकर- णिकोऽप्यत्र पु० । Source: वाचस्पत्यम् अधिकरणं, क्ली, (अधि + कृ + अधिकरणे ल्युट् ।) एकन्यायोपपादनं । इति हेमचन्द्रः ॥ अधि- क्रियते अत्र । विषयादिपञ्चावयवविवेचनोपेत- ग्रन्थः । यथा, -- “विषयो विशयश्चैव पूर्ब्बपक्षस्तथोत्तरं । निर्णयश्चेति पञ्चाङ्गं शास्त्रेऽधिकरणं स्मृतं” ॥ Source: शब्दकल्पद्रुमः అధికరణము (p. 0046) [ adhikaraṇamu ] adhi-karaṇamu. [Skt.] n. Support. ఆధారము. In metaphysics, a substratum, a cateogry; in grammar, government, the dependence of words in a sentence, which agree together. ஸமானாதிகரணம் samāṉātikaraṇam , n. < samāṇaadhikaraṇa. (Phil.) Being located in or dependent on the same substance; ஒரு பொருளையே ஆசிரயித்திருக்கை. adhikaraṇīˊ f. ʻ *anvil ʼ, adhikaraṇa -- n. ʻ receptacle, support ʼ TUp. [√kr̥1] Pa. adhikaraṇī -- f. ʻ smith's anvil ʼ; Pk. ahigaraṇī -- f. ʻ a piece of apparatus for a smith ʼ; K. yīran, dat. yṳ̄rüñ f. ʻ anvil ʼ, S. aharaṇi, araṇi f., L. (Jukes) ariṇ f., awāṇ. &circmacrepsilon;ruṇ, P. aihran, airaṇ, ā̆hraṇ f., WPah. bhal. arhini; roh. erṇe ʻ smithy ʼ, N. āran; H. aheran, ā̆hran m. ʻ anvil ʼ; -- H. Smith BSL 101, 115.Addenda: adhikaraṇīˊ -- : S.kcch. eṇ f. ʻ anvil ʼ; WPah.kṭg. n/arəṇ, n/arṇi f. ʻ furnace, smithy ʼ; āˊrəṇ m. prob. ← P. Him.I 4; jaun. āraṇ, airaṇ; G. eraṇi f. ʻ anvil ʼ, M. aheraṇ, ahiraṇ,airaṇ, airṇī, haraṇ f.(CDIAL 252) káraṇa n. ʻ act, deed ʼ RV. [√kr̥1] Pa. karaṇa -- n. ʻ doing ʼ; NiDoc. karana, kaṁraṁna ʻ work ʼ; Pk. karaṇa -- n. ʻ instrument ʼ; N. dan -- karnu ʻ toothpick ʼ, kan -- karnu ʻ ear -- pick ʼ; B. karnā, kannā ʻ work, duty ʼ; M.karṇẽ n. ʻ action, deed ʼ; Si. karaṇa ʻ occupation, trade, copulation ʼ; -- P. karnī f. ʻ mason's trowel ʼ (B. D. Jain PhonPj 116 < karaṇḍa -- ); H. karnī f. ʻ mason's trowel ʼ, M. karṇī f.(CDIAL 2795) káraṇa 'instrument' PLUS adhi, aḍe 'support, base, joining': the anvil of the type shown as 'snarling iron' was an important instrument of a smith to forge implements, pots and pans. I suggest that the early word in Prakrtam would have been closer to [T. aḍa, K. aḍe, M. aṭa.] used as a joining instrument in a forge. In one language stream, it evolves as the expression adhikaraṇīˊand in another stream it is paṭṭaḍe 'anvil, workshop' (Kannada). It is possible that such a snarling iron was the centr3-piece in the centre of each of the circular platforms with bricks used by Indus smiths. Harappa. circular platforms: adhikaraṇa 'anvil occupation' Synonym: paṭṭaḍe, paṭṭaḍi 'workshop'. The Indus Script inscription on a snarling iron is instructive: It reads: dula 'pair' rebus: dul 'cast metal' PLUS dATu 'cross' rebus: dhatu 'mineral ore' (that is, cast metal from ore) PLUS kolom 'three' rebus: kolimi 'smithy, forge' baTa 'rimless pot' rebus: bhaTa 'furnace' (that is, cast metal from ore furnace smithy). அடை³ aṭai , n. < அடு¹- [T. aḍa, K. aḍe, M. aṭa.] 1. Joining; பொருந்துகை. (கம்பரா. மந் திர. 88.) அடைகல்¹ aṭai-kal, n. < அடை¹-. 1. Anvil; பட்டடை. சுட்ட வல்லிரும் படைகலைச் சுடுகலா தன் போல் (கம்பரா. பாச. 33). 2. Stone base; ஆதாரச் சிலை. ஆமையாய் மேருத் தாங்கி யடைக கிடந்த போது (சி. சி. பர. பாஞ்சரா. மறு. 11). அடைகுறடு aṭai-kuṟaṭu , n. < அடை¹- +. 1. Anvil; கம்மியர் பட்டடை. (பிங்.) 2. Tongs; பற்றுக்குறடு. (W.) Ta. aṭai prop. slight support; aṭai-kal anvil. Ma. aṭa-kkallu anvil of goldsmiths. Ko. aṛ gal small anvil. Ka. aḍe, aḍa, aḍi the piece of wood on which the five artisans put the article which they happen to operate upon, a support; aḍegal, aḍagallu, aḍigallu anvil. Tu. aṭṭè a support, stand. Te. ḍā-kali, ḍā-kallu, dā-kali, dā-gali, dāyi anvil. Cf. 3865 Ta. paṭṭaṭai. (DEDR 86) Ta. paṭṭaṭai, paṭṭaṟai anvil, smithy, forge. Ka. paṭṭaḍe, paṭṭaḍi anvil, workshop. Te. paṭṭika, paṭṭeḍa anvil; paṭṭaḍa workshop.(DEDR 3865) These snarling irons are approx. 60 cms. long and could have been produced out of the limestone mould of Susa, ca. 13th cent. BCE The basin which could have been used as a mould measured 92 cm at its widest; the centerpiece depression which could have produced the snarling iron is approx. 60 cms. 1. A discovery of a stone basin with hieroglyphs of: european reed, shell (mollusc), kid (young goat) ligatured to fin of fish at Susa read: ayo 'fish' aya 'iron' ayas 'metal' PLUS khangaRA 'fin of fish' rebus: kammaTa 'mint, coiner, coinage' PLUS karaDU 'kid (young goat' rebus: karaDa 'hard alloy'. Indus Meluhha Writing inscription on a Chanhu-daro Snarling iron, 2529H, ASI, Central Antiquities Collection. 74.1/48 Snarling irons from the first quarter of the 20th century, after Otto 1922: 45 fig. 41-2. Used like special anvils for the raising of metal vessels.Download Free PDFView PDFGoat-fish on Assyrian seal, ayaskara fish-man of Ancient Near East are Indus Script hieroglyphs, mintwork cataloguesSrini KalyanaramanGoat, fin, fin of fish are recurring images of Ancient Near East and also on Indus Script Corpora. These three significant hieroglyphs relate to minwork catalogues. Variant ligatures on 'fish' hieroglyph are also explained in positional analyses describing the processes involved in working with aya 'iron' ayas 'metal'. Steven Bonta (2010) has presented a semiologic approach on the Indus Valley Script and offers some insights: “What is beyond reasonable dispute is that the Harappan signary is a sophisticated system of signs that represent, possibly quite elliptically, the language or languages employed by the Harappans…Whatever the irretrievable details of their culture and history, the preliminary evidence from their inscriptions appears to suggest that their voice may have been Indo-Aryan.” https://www.academia.edu/8691466/The_Indus_Valley_Script_A_New_Interpretation Michael Korvink presents a positional anaysis of 'fish' signs and highlights the ligatures to derive variants of the message conveyed by the basic glyph. Some ligatures are accents indicating 'fins' of fish read rebus as related to mintwork. What are recorded as Sumerian SUHUR.MASH, Akk. suhurmashu/i sometimes interpreted as 'sea-goat' and kulullû fish-man may relate to two Meluhha expressions:1. mr̤ēka 'goat': Ka. mēke she-goat; mē the bleating of sheep or goats. Te. mē̃ka, mēka goat. Kol. me·ke id. Nk. mēke id. Pa. mēva, (S.) mēya she-goat. Ga. (Oll.) mēge, (S.) mēge goat. Go. (M) mekā, (Ko.) mēka id. ? Kur. mēxnā (mīxyas) to call, call after loudly, hail. Malt. méqe to bleat. [Te. mr̤ēka (so correct) is of unknown meaning. Br. mēḻẖ is without etymology; see MBE 1980a.] / Cf. Skt. (lex.) meka- goat. (DEDR 5087) Rebus: milakkhu, mleccha, mlecchamukha 'copper' (Pali. Samskrtam) 2. ayo, ayu 'fish' rebus: aya 'iron' ayas 'metal' (Samskrtam) 3. kammaṭa 'mint': khambhaṛā ʻfinʼ rebus: kammaṭṭam, kammiṭṭam coinage, mint Ta. kampaṭṭam coinage, coin. Ma. kammaṭṭam, kammiṭṭam coinage, mint. Ka. kammaṭa id.; kammaṭi a coiner. (DEDR 1236) Thus, the goat-fish message relates to copper, iron mintwork. A person ligatured to a fish w/fin is ayaskara 'metalsmith' -- working in khambhaṛā ʻfinʼ rebus: kammaṭṭam, kammiṭṭam coinage, mint. కమ్మటము (p. 0247) [ kammaṭamu ] Same as కమటము. కమ్మటీడు kammaṭīḍu. [Tel.] A man of the goldsmith caste. He wears a bracelet with a safflower hieroglyph. करडी [ karaḍī ] f (See करडई) Safflower Rebus: करड [ karaḍa ] 'hard alloy'. A fish-apkallu drawn by AH Layard from a stone relief, one of a pair flanking a doorway in the Temple of Ninurta at Kalhu. British Museum. Reproduced in Schlomo Izre'el, Adpa and the South Wind, Language has the power of life and death, Eisenbrauns, 2001. See: http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.in/2011/11/susa-ritual-basin-decorated- Below, a fish-man in a sea from a bas-relief in the palace of the Assyrian king Sargon II, ca. 721-705 BCE at Dur-Sharken, modern Khorsabad. (p. 131. fig. 107. "merman and mermaid." Jeremy Black and Anthony Green. Gods, Demons and Symbols of Ancient Mesopotamia, An Illustrated Dictionary. London, British Museum, in association with the University of Texas Press. Austin. 1992. ISBn 0-292-70794-0. paperback) Below, sun-dried clay figures. Upper: a goat-fish (Greek: Capricorn) emblem of the god Enki (Ea) of Eridu. Lower: a fishman. Placed in a building to ward off evil in the Assyrian period (p. 92. figure 70. "goat-fish." Jeremy Black and Anthony Green. Gods, Demons and Symbols of Ancient Mesopotamia, An Illustrated Dictionary. London, British Museum, in association with the University of Texas Press. Austin. 1992. ISBn 0-292-70794-0. paperback). Note: I understand that Ea (Enki) who gave his servant Adapa wisdom or knowledge but denied him immortality has been recast as Yahweh in the Garden of Eden. Please click here for the details. Below, fish-men figurines, the so-called "seven sages" (apkallu), sun-dried clay, from the foundations of a priest's house in Asshur ca. 721-705 BCE (p. 18. Jeremy Black and Anthony Green.Gods, Demons and Symbols of Ancient Mesopotamia, An Illustrated Dictionary. London, British Museum, in association with the University of Texas Press. Austin. 1992. ISBN 0-292-70794-0. paperback). Below, p. 131. fig. 108. "merman and mermaid." Jeremy Black and Anthony Green. Gods, Demons and Symbols of Ancient Mesopotamia, An Illustrated Dictionary. London, British Museum, in association with the University of Texas Press. Austin. 1992. ISBN 0-292-70794-0. paperback). Below, a cylinder seal showing "fishmen" holding pine cones (?) and pollen-buckets (?), adoring a sacred tree. Above the tree is the sun-god with eagle wings and tail (perhaps Utu, Shamash or Asshur?). This tree appears in other Neo-Assyrian art forms as a highly stylized Date-palm with a vine lattice and leaves, sometimes bearing fruits such as grapes (?). To this day, Arabs in Lower Mesopotamia drape grapevines about Date-palms in their gardens. Could the Neo-Assyrian highly stylized grapevine tendril motif associated with the Date-palm be what is represented in this art form? In the Epic of Gilgamesh, a plant of rejuvenation lies at the bottom of the sea, could this be the plant the Fishmen are adoring? Or are they adoring the Mesu tree or Kiskanu tree at Eridu where Adapa and the apkallu served? (For the below picture cf. p. 15. figure 7. "Fish Gods at the Tree pf Life; Assyria, c. 700 BC." Joseph Campbell. The Masks of God: Creative Mythology. New York. Viking Penguin. 1968. Reprinted 1976) kuTi 'tree' rebus: kuThi 'smelter'. Below, sun-dried clay figures. Upper: a goat-fish (Greek: Capricorn) emblem of the god Enki (Ea) of Eridu. Lower: a fishman. Placed in a building to ward off evil in the Assyrian period (p. 92. figure 70. "goat-fish." Jeremy Black and Anthony Green. Gods, Demons and Symbols of Ancient Mesopotamia, An Illustrated Dictionary. London, British Museum, in association with the University of Texas Press. Austin. 1992. ISBn 0-292-70794-0. paperback). Note: I understand that Ea (Enki) who gave his servant Adapa wisdom or knowledge but denied him immortality has been recast as Yahweh in the Garden of Eden. Please click here for the detailsDownload Free PDFView PDFSee Full PDFDownload PDFLoading PreviewSorry, preview is currently unavailable. You can download the paper by clicking the button above.RELATED PAPERSProcessions of hieroglyphs are classifiers of metalwork of Indus Script artisans. A venn diagram A ∩ B intersection is the decipherment.Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFAsura, Assur and evidences of Meluhha speech in Ancient Near East & in TocharianSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFA temple at Sanchi for Dhamma by a kāraṇikā sanghin 'guild of scribes' in Indus writing cipher continuumSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFExplaining a writing system as ciphertext, layered rebus-metonymy in ancient Indus Script Corpora, from ca. 3500 BCESrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFItihāsa of makara in Veda & Indus Script artisanal traditions of Bhāratam Janam.pdfSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFYupa as flagpost, Indus Script evidences of proclamation from Girsu, Ancient Near East to Candi Sukuh, Ancient Far EastSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFFive Indus Script seals from Indian Museum, New Delhi deciphered as metalwork cataloguesSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFItihāsa of Tin-Bronze Revolution of EurasiaSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFIndus Script on Kabul mss compared with deciphered hypertext strings of metalwork catalogues reported by Rick Willis and Vasant ShindeSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFEpigraphia Indus Script – Contributions to Art & Cultural History of Ancient India and Hindu IconographySrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFIndus writing mlecchita vikalpa (Meluhha cipher)—6. Meluhha metallurgy, Tin Road trade & interaction narrativesSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFIndus Script inscriptions (43) deciphered, One eye + circumfix, 6 locks of hair on head, 2 tigers, elephant, spoked wheel, fish, fish-fin [kammaṭa 'a portable furnace to melt metals, coiner, mint’]Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFSupercaro ingots (1) of cast metal (2) for forge. Indus Script Corpora mūhā parenthesis/split ellipse (orthography), signifies 'ingot'  (semantics).Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFAll stamp seals, some cylinder seals of Dilmun with Sumerian motifs and Indus Script are deciphered metalwork cataloguesSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFpaṭṭamara, koṭiya, sangaDa, bagala types of 'seafaring dhow' signified on Indus Script inscriptionsSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFDholavira temple of Dhokra Kamar lost wax metalcasters. A tribute to artisans who produced wealth of a nation, from ca. 5th m. BCESrinivasan KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFIndus Script pectoral signifies kõdār, 'turner' maker of metal implements & kārṇī, kāraṇika, 'supercargo of a merchant ship', i.e., cargo-in-charge on jangada, 'double-canoe'Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFData mining of Indus Script hieroglyph clusters names Bronze Age professionals: damgar 'merchant, khār 'smith', ṭhākur ʻblacksmithʼ খোন্দকার 'farmer' in कोंड 'hamlets'Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFMlecchita vikalpa, vākyapadīya of composite animals Indus Script hypertexts cipher metalwork wealth & trade.pdfSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFLong Harappa Script inscriptions (signify 8 to 39 Meluhha hypertexts), are Dharma saṁjñā, Corporate guild badges of responsibilitySrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFPillar of fire, jyotirlinga and Hindu temples in archaeology from ca. 3rd millennium BCE along the Meluhha tin road  --Tracing the Hindu temple traditions in the context of Itihasa of Bharatam JanamSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFIndus Script is a knowledge system of Vedic culture, Bronze AgeSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFkárṇaka 'helmsman' karṇika 'scribe, accountant' of Indus Script is Kernunnos venerated, adored as Tvaṣṭṛ triśiras, a horned artisan architect, metalworker smithSrinivasan KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFThe first book ever written in the history of humankind is in Indus ScriptSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFBharatiya adhyatmika itihasa of tridhatu Gaṇesa Siva Rama KrṣṇaSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFA tribute to Rick Willis who demonstrated possible use of Indus Script copper plates for printing. Indus writing created metalwork catalogs.Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFBharata Hindu, Jaina, Bauddham traditions. Tree metaphors and orthographic narratives kuṭhi 'sacred, divine, tree' rebus, kuṭhi ‘a furnace for smelting iron ore' Harappa, kuṭi 'temple'Srini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFTracing Roots of Bhāratam Janam from Indus Script hieroglyph-multiplexes as hypertext deciphered metalwork cataloguesSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFMeluhha hieroglyphs: makara toraṇa (rope, garland), trefoil on Mohenjo-daro shawl of priest encode, venerate dhamma, dharmaSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFSculptural, cylinder,square seal hypertext compositions are traced to artistic tradition of Sarasvati civilization.pdfSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFPortraits on Indus Script of Ancient Indian mariners kāraṇīka 'helmsman, supercargo' > KernunnosSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFSupercargo defined by hieroglyphic nature of Indus Script proved by feeding troughs in front of even wild animalsSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFsãgaṛh 'fortification', koṭṭa 'fortified settlement', koṭiya ʻsailing vessel' signified on Indus Script inscriptionsSrini KalyanaramanDownload Free PDFView PDFRELATED TOPICSNear Eastern ArchaeologySee Full PDFDownload PDFAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023