OAS :: Member State :: Trinidad and Tobago
105 captures
07 Jul 2011 - 02 Jun 2023
Oct
JUL
Dec
07
2016
2017
2018
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wide Crawl Number 16: Started June 3rd, 2017 - Still running
  Web wide crawl number 16The seed list for Wide00016 was made from the join of the top 1 million domains from CISCO and the top 1 million domains from Alexa.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20170707211728/http://www.oas.org/en/member_states/member_state.asp?sCode=TRI
English
Español
Português
Français
About the OAS
Who We Are
What We Do
Our Structure
Our Locations
Contact Us
Access to Information
 
Offices in the Member States
Our History
Logo
Authorities
Services
Legal
Protocol
 
 
Topics
A
Access to Information
Actions against Corruption
C
Children
Civil Registry
Civil Society
Contact Us
Culture 
Cyber Security
D
Demining
Democracy
Disarmament
Drugs
 
E
e-Government
Education
Elections
Environment
G
General Assembly
Governance
H
Human Development
Human Rights
I
Indigenous Peoples
Integral Development
Intellectual Property
International Affairs
International Law
J
Justice
 
K
Knowledge-based Society
L
Labor
Legal Services
M
MACCIH
Migration
Multidimensional Security
P
Peace
Permanent Council
Persons with Disabilities
Ports
Protocol
Public Management
Public Security
R
Racism and Intolerance
Refugees
 
S
Scholarships
School of Governance
Science and Technology
Social Development
Summits of the Americas
Sustainable Development
T
Telecommunications
Terrorism
Tourism
Trade
Treaties and Agreements
W
Women
Y
Youth
 
 
Strategic Partners
Permanent Observers
Civil Society
Institutional Relations 
Trust for the Americas
 
Consortium of Universities
Pan American Development Foundation (PADF)
Joint Summit Working Group
YABT
 
 
Member States
Permanent Missions
Permanent Representatives
 
 
Media Center
Press Releases
Speeches
Email subscriptions
 
Videos
Photos
Live Webcast
 
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Newsletters
 
 
Documents
OAS Charter
Inter-American Democratic Charter
Social Charter of the Americas
Declarations and Resolutions
General Assembly
Regular Sessions
Special Sessions
Permanent Council
 
Treaties and Agreements
Library Collection
Document Search
Annual Reports
Publications
 
 
Accountability
Budget
External Audit
Semiannual and Quarterly Reports of the General Secretariat
Procurement
Human Resources
 
Evaluation
Internal Audit
Real Estate Strategy
Financial Reports
Annual Operating Plan
Legal Services
 
 
Calendar
Calendar of Conferences in Headquarters
 
 
Each year the OAS Secretary General publishes a proposed Program-Budget for the coming calendar year.  The OAS General Assembly meets in a Special Session to approve the Program-Budget.  Find these documents from 1998-2013 here.
Each year in April, the OAS Board of External Auditors publishes a report covering the previous calendar year’s financial results.  Reports covering 1996-2016 may be found here.
Approximately six weeks after the end of each semester, the OAS publishes a Semiannual Management and Performance Report, which since 2013 includes reporting on programmatic results. The full texts may be found here.
Here you will find data on the Human Resources of the OAS, including its organizational structure, each organizational unit’s staffing, vacant posts, and performance contracts.
The OAS executes a variety of projects funded by donors. Evaluation reports are commissioned by donors.  Reports of these evaluations may be found here.
The Inspector General provides the Secretary General with reports on the audits, investigations, and inspections conducted. These reports are made available to the Permanent Council.  More information may be found here.
The OAS has discussed for several years the real estate issue, the funding required for maintenance and repairs, as well as the deferred maintenance of its historic buildings.  The General Secretariat has provided a series of options for funding it.  The most recent document, reflecting the current status of the Strategy, is CP/CAAP-3211/13 rev. 4.
Here you will find information related to the GS/OAS Procurement Operations, including a list of procurement notices for formal bids, links to the performance contract and travel control measure reports, the applicable procurement rules and regulations, and the training and qualifications of its staff.
The OAS Treasurer certifies the financial statements of all funds managed or administered by the GS/OAS. Here you will find the latest general purpose financial reports for the main OAS funds, as well as OAS Quarterly Financial Reports (QFRs).
Every year the GS/OAS publishes the annual operating plans for all areas of the Organization, used to aid in the formulation of the annual budget and as a way to provide follow-up on institutional mandates.
It looks like JavaScript is either disabled or turned off. Please enable JavaScript to correctly view this web site.
Parece que JavaScript está desactivado o apagado. Por favor, activar JavaScript para ver este sitio de web.
Afigura-se o JavaScript está desativado ou desligado. Por favor ative o JavaScript para visualizar este site.
Il semble que JavaScript est dásactivé. S'il vous plaît, activer JavaScript pour visualiser ce site.
Promoting Democracy
Defending Human Rights
Ensuring a Multidimensional Approach to Security
Fostering Integral Development and Prosperity
Supporting Inter-American Legal Cooperation
Home »
Member States » Trinidad and Tobago
Member State: Trinidad and Tobago
Permanent Mission
Government Officials
Office in the Member State
Other
Representative
Date of Appointment
Alternate(s)
Date of Appointment
Attaché
H.E. Anthony  PHILLIPS-SPENCER
          Ambassador, Permanent Representative
July 8, 2016
Ms. Charlene Eleanor Avion LASHLEY CARUTH
First Secretary, Alternate Representative          
          
January 31, 2017
Mr. Rambaran  CHABINATH
          Attaché
Ms. Kaanita  FARHAANA SHAH
          First Secretary, Alternate Representative
          
          
          
March 26, 2013
Colonel Darnley  WYKE
                Defense and Military Attaché
         
        
Mrs. Zauditu Isis Laxmi Elaine LESSEY-PERREIRA
          Second Secretary, Alternate Representative
          
          
          
September 22, 2014
        
         
        
Address: 1708 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.  Washington, D.C. 20036
Phone: (202) 467-6490Fax: (202) 785-3130E-mail: embdcinfo@foreign.gov.ttWebsite: http://www.gov.ttOffice Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. / Closed : Saturday
President:
His Excellency  Anthony  AQUINAS CARMONA, S.C.
Prime Minister :
The Honourable Dr. Keith   ROWLEY
Minister in the Ministry of the Office of the Prime Minister:
The Honourable Aynna   WEBSTER-ROY
Attorney General:
The Honourable Faris  AL-RAWI
Minister in the Office of the Attorney General :
The Honourable Stuart  YOUNG
Minister of Agriculture, Land and Fisheries:
Senator the Honourable Clarence  RAMBHARAT
Minister in the Ministry of Agriculture, Land and Fisheries:
Senator the Honourable Avinash  SINGH
Minister of Communications :
The Honourable Maxie  CUFFIE
Minister of Community Development, Culture and the Arts:
Dr. the Honourable Nyan   GADSBY DOLLY 
Minister of Education:
The Honourable Anthony  GARCIA
Minister of Energy and Energy Affairs:
The Honourable Nicole  OLLIVIERE
Minister of Finance:
The Honourable Colm  IMBERT
Minister of Foreign and CARICOM Affairs:
Senator the Honourable  Dennis  MOSES
Minister of Health:
The Honourable Terrence  DEYALSINGH
Minister of Housing and Urban Develpment:
The Honourable Marlene  MCDONALD
Minister of Labour and Small and Micro Enterprise Development:
Senator the Honourable Jennifer  BAPTISTE-PRIMUS
Minister of National Security :
The Honourable Major General (rtd.) EDMUND  DILLON
Minister of the Social Development and Family Services :
The Honourable Cherrie-Ann  CHRICHLOW-COCKBURN
Minister of Planning and Sustainable Development:
The Honourable Camille  ROBINSON-REGIS
Minister of Public Administration :
The Honourable  Randall  MITCHELL
Minister of Public Utilities:
The Honourable Anchil  ANTOINE
Minister of Sports :
The Honourable DARRYL  SMITH
Minister of Tourism :
The Honourable Shamfa  CUDJOE
Minister of Trade and Industry:
The Honourable Paula  GOPEE-SCOON
Minister of Rural Development Local Government:
Senator the Honourable Franklin  KAHN
Minister of Works and Transport:
The Honourable Fitzgerald  HINDS
Ambassador, Permanent Representative to the Organization of American States and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States of America and Ambassador to The United Mexican States::
His Excellency Anthony  PHILLIPS-SPENCER
Office Information
Currently, there is no Representative designated in the OAS National Office in Trinidad and Tobago.
Address: 15 D Wainwright St. St. Clair
Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago
Phone(s): 1 868 622-0019 | 1 868 622-9272Fax: 1 868 622-5430Hours: 8:30 am - 4:30 pmE-mail: OASTrinidadandTobago@oas.org
Webpage: http://www.oas.org/en/about/offices_detail.asp?sCode=TRI
Capital:  Port-of-Spain
National Holiday: August 31
Date of Entry into the Inter-American System : 1967
Website: http://www.gov.tt
          Any amendment to the Directory of Permanent Missions must be reported 
          to
      protocol@oas.org. 
© Copyright 
 
OASEmployment and InternshipsScholarshipsProcurementProtocol
Terms & ConditionsContact UsAccess to Information
Staff Directory
RSS