Kwara State University - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History/Organization
2Academics
3References
4External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Kwara State University
3 languages
HausaIgboYorùbá
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Public university in Malete, Nigeria
Kwara State UniversityKWASU gatewayMotto...the Green University for community development and entrepreneurshipTypePublicEstablished2009ChancellorJohnson AdewumiVice-ChancellorActing Vice Chancellor Professor Shykh Luqman JimohStudentsover 25,000Undergraduatesover 20,000Postgraduatesover 2,000Doctoral studentsover 500AddressP.M.B 1530 Ilorin, 23431, Malete, Kwara State, NigeriaCampusRuralNicknameKWASUWebsitewww.kwasu.edu.ng
Kwara State University, also known as KWASU, is a state owned university located in Malete, Kwara State, Nigeria. It is the 77th university to be registered by the Nigerian Universities Commission (NUC), and the 95th university to be recognized in Nigeria.[1][2][3][4]
The university was established by the administration of Dr. Bukola Saraki in 2009, and envisioned to be more than a typical university in Nigeria. [5]It was designed to be a centre for community service and entrepreneurship. In a country where the fundamental values of volunteerism and community involvement are yet to be fully embraced, the university recognises itself as a part of a community, and has the position of a Director for Community Development for the purpose of mobilizing the community, setting assessment strategies, and identifying the needs within the community so that lecturers can use their expertise to impact directly on the communities. KWASU held her first convocation on 1 June 2013 and inaugurated KWASU Alumni Association with Oyinloye Damilare Peter as the pioneer President .[6][7]
History/Organization[edit]
The journey towards establishing a state university in Kwara State began on 11 July 2007 when the Kwara State Governor Bukola Saraki inaugurated a planning committee under former governor of Kwara State, Alhaji Mohammed Shaaba Lafiagi to prepare the ground for the establishment of the Kwara State University. The Bill for the Kwara State University was signed into law on 24 December 2008.[1] The certificate and instrument to operate the university was obtained on 9 February 2009 from the National Universities Commission (NUC). The pioneer Vice-Chancellor, Professor Abdul Rasheed Na'Allah, who until his appointment, was Chair of the African American Studies Department of the Western Illinois University, Macomb, United States of America, assumed office on 28 July 2009 . The current Chief of Staff to the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari who was before his appointment a seasoned scholar and internationally diplomat, Professor Ibrahim Agboola Gambari is the pioneer chancellor of the school, Johnson Adewunmi the current chancellor was appointed on Monday, 25 May 2020 by Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq.[8] When fully operational, the university is planned to have its academic activities operate from three campuses located in Malete, Ilesha-Baruba and Osi-Opin.[1]
The Malete campus is the main campus and houses the College of Pure and Applied Sciences, College of Information and Communication Technology, and the College of Education. Osi (Ekiti local government) campus will house the College of Engineering, College of Humanities, Management, and Social Sciences. The Baruba (Baruten Local government) Campus will house the College of Agriculture and Veterinary Sciences. Around July, 2019, the University in honour of its outgoing Vice-Chancellor, Professor Abdulrasheed Na'Allah commissioned what was adjudged the best Library in the whole of West Africa at that time. The edifice was named after former president, Muhammadu Buhari.[9]
Academics[edit]
Kwara State University has several academic centres. One of such centres is the Centre for Ecology and Environmental Management and Studies CEERMS, which recently received a grant from UNESCO worth $15.3 million to be used over a six-year period to establish the UNESCO Chair for Alternative Energy Programme. This grant is for research in Alternative Energy and is to be handled by Kwara State University Centre for Ecological and Environmental Research Management Studies (CEERMS).[10] 
Other centre of the University are: Centre for Oral Traditions in Africa, Institute for Asian Studies, Institute for Advanced Military Studies, Japanese Language and Culture Institute, Ibrahim Gambari Centre for the Study of United Nations and Regional Organizations, Centre for Pre-degree and Remedial Studies, Centre for Human Rights and the law, Centre for Modernity and Religion, Centre for Art Preservation, Centre for Sponsored Projects, Centre for Innovation in Teaching and Research, KWASU International Institute for Publishing Studies, Centre for Innovative Technology, Center for Innovation and International Studies, Centre for Bio-Computational Applications and the Centre for Entrepreneurship.[citation needed]
The Centre for Entrepreneurship, the first of its kind in Nigeria,[11] is aimed at preparing its graduates to identify and recognize opportunities through an orientation towards job creation. The university works with students still in the university, to propose and implement a project. As the students graduate, the university partners with the students in implementing the various projects.[12] It also created a start up fund that is accessible to student for this purpose. Presently, Kwara State University offers students an opportunity to propose their research projects to the school under the Undergraduate Research Day, an annual event where students of the institution present research work for funding and global recognition.[13][14]
While KWASU plans to expand its study abroad locations, it currently has a partnership with Thammasat University in Thailand; Korean Advanced Institute of Technology (KAIST), South Korea; Columbia University, New York, USA; University of the State of Bahia (UNEB), Salvador, Brazil; Texas Southern University, Houston, TX, USA; etc.[15] 
Its teaching staff consists of scholars such as Prof. Leo Daniels, MLK Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (MIT) as Provost at the College of Engineering and Technology, Prof. Abiola Irele from Harvard University as Provost at the College of Humanities, Management and Social Sciences; and Prof. Winston Wole Soboyejo from Princeton University among others.[15]
The National Universities Commission (NUC), has approved Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering as a course in Kwara State University (KWASU). Being the first institution in Nigeria to offer a (B.Eng.) in Aeronautical and Astronautical engineering. A statement issued by the Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Abdulrasheed Na'Allah "I must congratulate all our students and staff in Engineering, especially the department of aeronautical and astronautical engineering for their hard work and patience, that have led to this great success."[16][17][18][19]
References[edit]
^ a b c "About Kwasu". Retrieved 18 March 2011.
^ "KWASU has no affiliation with Ekiti Study Centre - Management". 8 September 2020. Retrieved 15 August 2021.
^ "Hostel fee: KWASU students lament school policy". Vanguard News. 12 April 2021. Retrieved 15 August 2021.
^ "Kwara State University students agitated over proposed tuition fee hike". International Centre for Investigative Reporting. 10 September 2020. Retrieved 15 August 2021.
^ "Kwara State University (KWASU)". Nigerian Scholars. Retrieved 16 August 2023.
^ "Entrepreneurship: Igniting the Spirit From the Cradle". Thisday. 24 March 2011. p. 24.
^ "KWASU seeks to boost IGR through tourism". Latest Nigeria News, Nigerian Newspapers, Politics. 11 February 2021. Retrieved 15 August 2021.
^ "Premium Times - Nigeria leading newspaper for news, investigations". Retrieved 17 January 2021.
^ "KWASU commissioned biggest library in West Africa". Naija Loaded. 6 July 2019. Retrieved 3 August 2023.
^ "Kwara State University". Archived from the original on 16 May 2011. Retrieved 20 March 2011.
^ "The Entrepreneurship Center". Retrieved 15 March 2011.[permanent dead link]
^ Ani, Lawrence (9 April 2011). "Making Every Child Count". Thisday. p. 36.
^ "KWASU Awards Research Grants to 26 Students - MySchoolGist". www.myschoolgist.com. 13 May 2014. Retrieved 3 March 2020.
^ "Undergraduate Research Day - KWASU". Campus Trybe. 14 March 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2020.
^ a b Olaiya, Tope (27 March 2011). "KWASU teaches students how to be good entrpreneurs". Guardian.
^ "KWASU Begins Aeronautical Engineering Programme". Business Post Nigeria. 27 February 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2020.
^ "Kwara state University is first Nigerian uni to offer aeronautical engineering". TheCable. 27 February 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2020.
^ Mahmud, Maryam (1 March 2017). "Kwara State University Gets NUC Approval For Aeronautical Engineering Programme". Students Nigeria. Retrieved 3 March 2020.
^ "KWASU Becomes First Nigerian University To Offer Aeronautical Engineering". Nigerian Bulletin - Top Nigeria News Links. Retrieved 3 March 2020.
External links[edit]
Kwara State University Website
vteAssociation of African Universities Algeria
Algiers 1 University
Constantine 1 University
Oran 1 University
Université Badji Mokhtar d'Annaba
Université des sciences et de la technologie d'Oran
Université Des Sciences Islamiques
University of Ouargla
University of Science and Technology Houari Boumediene
 Angola
Agostinho Neto University
 Benin
African University For Cooperative Development
Edexcel University
Poma International Business University
Université de Parakou
University of Abomey-Calavi
 Botswana
Botho University
Botswana Accountancy College
Botswana International University of Science and Technology
Botswana University of Agriculture and Natural Resources
New Era College Of Arts, Science And Technology
University of Botswana
 Burkina Faso
Institut International d'Ingénierie de l'Eau et de l'Environnement
Institut Supérieur d’Informatique et de Gestion
L'Université Aube Nouvelle
Nazi Boni University
University of Ouagadougou
 Burundi
École normale supérieure de Bujumbura
University of Burundi
 Cameroon
Ecole Nationale Superieure Des Travaux Publics De Yaoundé
Institut Universitaire du Golfe de Guinée
Maflekumen Higher Institute Of Health Sciences
Pan African Institute for Development – West Africa
University of Bamenda
University of Buea
University of Douala
University of Dschang
University of Maroua
University of Ngaoundéré
University of Yaoundé I
 Cape Verde
Jean Piaget University of Cape Verde
 Central African Republic
EUCLID
University of Bangui
 Chad
University of N'Djamena
 Republic of the Congo
Marien Ngouabi University
 Cote D'Ivoire
Agitel - Formation
École nationale supérieure de statistique et d'économie appliquée
Institut universitaire d'Abidjan
International University of Grand-Bassam
Pigier Côte d'Ivoire
Université Félix Houphouët-Boigny
Université Nangui-Abrogoua
Université Pelefero Gon Coulibaly
Université Tertiaire et Technologique LOKO
 Democractic Republicof the Congo
Catholic University of Bukavu
Université catholique du Congo
Université Loyola du Congo
Université Simon Kimbangu
University of Kinshasa
University of Kisangani
University of Lubumbashi
 Egypt
Ain Shams University
Al-Azhar University
Alexandria Higher Institute of Engineering and Technology
Alexandria University
Benha University
Cairo University
Egypt-Japan University of Science and Technology
Egyptian e-Learning University
Helwan University
Mansoura University
Matrouh University
Menoufia University
Minya University
Misr University for Science and Technology
October 6 University
Pharos University in Alexandria
South Valley University
Suez Canal University
Tanta University
The American University in Cairo
The British University in Egypt
University of Sadat City
Zagazig University
 Eritrea
University of Asmara
 Eswatini
University of Eswatini
 Ethiopia
Addis Ababa Science and Technology University
Addis Ababa University
Bule Hora University
Ethiopian Civil Service University
Haramaya University
Hawassa University
Jimma University
Mekelle University
St. Mary's University
Wollega University
 Gabon
Omar Bongo University
Université Des Sciences & Techniques De Masuku
 Ghana
Accra Institute of Technology
Accra Technical University
African University College of Communications
All Nations University
Ashesi University
Bluecrest University College
Central University
Dominion University College
George Grant University of Mines and Technology
Ghana Institute of Languages
Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
Koforidua Technical University
Kumasi Technical University
Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology
Methodist University College Ghana
Pentecost University
Presbyterian University College
Radford University College
Regent University College of Science and Technology
Regional Maritime University
University for Development Studies
University of Cape Coast
University of Education, Winneba
University of Energy and Natural Resources
University of Ghana
University of Health and Allied Sciences
University of Professional Studies
University of Media, Arts and Communication
Valley View University
Wisconsin International University College
Zenith University College
 Kenya
African Virtual University
Catholic University of Eastern Africa
Daystar University
Dedan Kimathi University of Technology
Egerton University
International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology
Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology
Kenyatta University
Maseno University
Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology
Moi University
Mount Kenya University
Multimedia University of Kenya
South Eastern Kenya University
Strathmore University
Umma University
University of Eldoret
University of Nairobi
 Lesotho
National University of Lesotho
 Liberia
Cuttington University
Stella Maris Polytechnic University
United Methodist University
 Libya
Al Asmarya University for Islamic Sciences
Al Zawiya University
Misurata University
Sabha University
University of Al-Jabal Al Gharbi
University of Benghazi
University of Tripoli
 Madagascar
University of Antananarivo
University of Toamasina
 Malawi
DMI-St. John the Baptist University
Lilongwe University of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Malawi University of Science and Technology
UNICAF
University of Malawi
 Mali
University of Bamako
 Mauritania
University of Nouakchott Al Aasriya
 Mauritius
Open University of Mauritius
University of Mauritius
University of Technology, Mauritius
 Morocco
Mohammed First University
Mohammed V University
University of al-Qarawiyyin
 Mozambique
Catholic University of Mozambique
Eduardo Mondlane University
Maputo University
Zambeze University
 Namibia
International University of Management
Namibia University of Science and Technology
University of Namibia
 Niger
Abdou Moumouni University
Higher Institute of Mining, Industry and Geology
Maryam Abacha American University Niger
 Nigeria
Abia State University
Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University
Adamawa State University
Ahmadu Bello University
Al-Hikmah University
Babcock University
Bayero University
Bells University of Technology
Bowen University
Crawford University
Delta State University, Abraka
Ebonyi State University
Federal University of Technology, Minna
Federal University of Technology, Owerri
Federal University of Technology, Yola
Gombe State University
Kogi State University
Kwara State University
Ladoke Akintola University of Technology
Michael Okpara University of Agriculture
National Open University of Nigeria
Niger Delta University
Nnamdi Azikiwe University
Osun State University
Pan-Atlantic University
Redeemer's University
Rivers State University
University of Abuja
University of Agriculture, Abeokuta
University of Agriculture, Makurdi
University of Benin
University of Calabar
University of Ibadan
University of Ilorin
University of Lagos
University of Port Harcourt
University of Uyo
Usman Dan Fodio University
 Rwanda
Université Nationale du Rwanda
 Sierra Leone
Njala University
University of Sierra Leone
 Somalia
Benadir University
East Africa University
Puntland State University
 South Africa
Cape Peninsula University of Technology
Central University of Technology
Council on Higher Education
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University
North-West University
Rhodes University
University of Cape Town
University of Fort Hare
University of Johannesburg
University of KwaZulu-Natal
University of the Free State
University of Limpopo
University of Pretoria
University of South Africa
University of Stellenbosch
University of the Western Cape
University of the Witwatersrand
University of Venda
University of Zululand
Walter Sisulu University
 South Sudan
University of Juba
 Sudan
El Imam El Mahdi University
National College for Medical and Technical Studies
Omdurman Ahlia University
Red Sea University
University of Bakht er Ruda
University of Dalanj
University of Science and Technology
 Tanzania
Ardhi University
Muslim University of Morogoro
Mzumbe University
St. Augustine University of Tanzania
The Open University of Tanzania
University of Dar es Salaam
Zanzibar University
 The Gambia
University of the Gambia
 Togo
Université de Kara
Université de Lomé
 Uganda
Busitema University
Uganda Christian University
Uganda Management Institute
Uganda Martyrs University
 Zambia
Cavendish University
Copperbelt University
Mulungushi University
University of Lusaka College
University of Zambia
Zambian Open University
 Zimbabwe
Africa University
Bindura University of Science Education
Chinhoyi University of Technology
Great Zimbabwe University
Harare Institute of Technology
Lupane State University
Midlands State University
National University of Science and Technology
University of Zimbabwe
Women’s University in Africa
Zimbabwe Open University
vteUniversities in NigeriaFederal
Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University
Alex Ekwueme Federal University Ndufu Alike Ikwo
Ahmadu Bello University
Bayero University Kano
Federal University, Birnin Kebbi
Federal University Dutse
Federal University, Dutsin-Ma
Federal University, Gashua
Federal University, Gusau
Federal University Kashere
Federal University, Lokoja
Federal University, Otuoke
Federal University Oye Ekiti
Federal University, Wukari
Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta
Federal University of Agriculture, Zuru
Federal University of Lafia
Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun
Federal University of Technology Akure
Federal University of Technology, Minna
Federal University of Technology Owerri
Michael Okpara University of Agriculture
Modibbo Adama Federal University of Technology, Yola
National Open University of Nigeria
Nigeria Maritime University
Nigerian Army University Biu
Nigerian Defence Academy
Nnamdi Azikiwe University
Obafemi Awolowo University
University of Abuja
University of Agriculture, Makurdi
University of Benin
University of Calabar
University of Ibadan
University of Ilorin
University of Jos
University of Lagos
University of Maiduguri
University of Nigeria
University of Port Harcourt
University of Uyo
Usmanu Danfodiyo University
State
Abia State University Uturu
Adamawa State University
Adekunle Ajasin University
Akwa Ibom State University
Ambrose Alli University
Bauchi State University
Bayelsa Medical University
Benue State University
Borno State University
Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University
Cross River University of Technology
Delta State University
Ebonyi State University
Edo University, Iyamho
Ekiti State University
Enugu State University of Science and Technology
Gombe State University
Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University
Imo State University
Kaduna State University
Kano State University of Technology
Kebbi State University of Science and Technology
Kogi State University
Kwara State University
Ladoke Akintola University of Technology
Lagos State University
Nasarawa State University
Niger Delta University
Olabisi Onabanjo University
Ondo State University of Science and Technology
Osun State University
Plateau State University
Rivers State University
Sokoto State University
Sule Lamido University
Tai Solarin University of Education
Taraba State University
The Polytechnic, Ibadan
Umaru Musa Yar'adua University
University of Africa, Toru-Orua
Yobe State University
Bukar Abba Ibrahim University
Zamfara State University
Private
Achievers University
Afe Babalola University
Ajayi Crowther University
Al-Hikmah University
American University of Nigeria
Anchor University
Arthur Javis University
Augustine University Ilara
Babcock University
Baze University
Bells University of Technology
Benson Idahosa University
Bingham University
Bowen University
Caleb University
Caritas University
CETEP City University
Chrisland University
Christopher University
Coal City University
Covenant University
Crawford University
Crescent University
Elizade University
Fountain University
Godfrey Okoye University
Gregory University
Hezekiah University
Igbinedion University
Joseph Ayo Babalola University
Kings University
Koladaisi University
Kwararafa University
Landmark University
Lead City University
Madonna University
McPherson University
Mountain Top University
Nile University of Nigeria
Novena University
Obong University
Oduduwa University
Pan-Atlantic University
Paul University
Redeemer's University Nigeria
Renaissance University
Rhema University
Ritman University
Salem University
Samuel Adegboyega University
Tansian University
University of Mkar
Veritas University
Wellspring University
Wesley University
Western Delta University
Authority control International
ISNI
VIAF
National
United States
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kwara_State_University&oldid=1170677083"
Categories: Kwara State UniversityUniversities and colleges in NigeriaEducation in Kwara StatePublic universities in Nigeria2009 establishments in NigeriaEducational institutions established in 2009Hidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse Nigerian English from July 2019Use dmy dates from July 2019Articles using infobox universityPages using infobox university with the nickname aliasAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2019Nigeria articles missing geocoordinate dataAll articles needing coordinatesArticles missing coordinates without coordinates on WikidataArticles with ISNI identifiersArticles with VIAF identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiers
 This page was last edited on 16 August 2023, at 14:01 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width