Language choice, education and community identity | SIL International
13 captures
06 Dec 2015 - 09 Jul 2023
Dec
JUL
Mar
19
2015
2020
2022
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Archive Team
 Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.
The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.
This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. 
Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.
The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. 
Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler
  ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites).
To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently.
There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com.
ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20200719163752/https://www.sil.org/resources/archives/5099
Skip to main content
 
SIL International
Search form
Search 
 
 
Home
Shopping cart (0 items)
Contact Us
DonateOnline
Check
Matching Gifts
Sign In
 
 
Language DevelopmentLanguage DevelopmentCommunities developing resources and competencies for using their languagesDomains:Dictionaries & Lexicography
Language Assessment
Language Programs Management
Language Technology
Literacy & Education
Media Development
Orthography
Translation
Language & CultureLanguage & CultureFoundational understanding for language development work of all kindsDomains:Anthropology
Arts & Ethnomusicology
Language & Culture Documentation
Language & Culture Learning
Linguistics
Sign Languages
Sociolinguistics
ResourcesResourcesPublications, fonts and computer tools for language development, translation and researchResources:Glossaries of Linguistic Terms
Language & Culture Archives
SIL International Publications
Software & Fonts
TrainingTrainingSIL offers training in disciplines relevant to sustainable language development.Training:About Training
For Specialties
Online Training
Programs
WorldwideWorldwideOver 7,000 languages are spoken or signed. CLICK for map of world languages & regional websites.On Location
Why Languages Matter
Endangered Languages
International Relations
Sign Languages
About SILAboutSIL's commitment to see people flourishing using the languages they value most.Discover SIL
Administration
Senior Consultants
Our History
Annual Updates
FAQ
Financial Information
Media Center
News
 
  
 
 
Language choice, education and community identity
 
Files:
AttachmentSize 
 BTrudell_Language_choice_education_and_community_identity_2005_preprint.pdf386.37 KB 
Statement of Responsibility:
Trudell, Barbara
Authors:
Trudell, Barbara
Series:
International Journal of Educational Development
Issue Date:
2005
Is Part Of Series:
International Journal of Educational Development 25
Extent:
pages 237-251
Abstract:
This paper is an examination of the pedagogical and cultural impact of the PROPELCA (Operational Research Project for the Teaching of Cameroonian Languages) mother-tongue education program being implemented in the Bafut,Kom and Nso’ language communities of the Northwest Province of Cameroon. Using research carried out in 2002–2003,the author compares the instructional quality and cultural relevance of the PROPELCA program with those of the standard English-medium primary classroom as found in those communities. The author argues that mother-tongue education can play a vital role in broader movements aimed at minority language development and improved educational effectiveness.
Publication Status:
Published
Country:
Cameroon
Subject Languages:
Bafut [bfd]
Kom (Cameroon) [bkm]
Lamnso' [lns]
Content Language:
English [eng]
Field:
Language Program Management
Literacy and Education
Sociolinguistics
Work Type:
Journal article
Subject:
Literacy programs
Language programs
Language policy
Nature of Work:
Text
Entry Number:
5099
 
 
Register on SIL.org
To enable us to better serve you, we invite you to create an account on SIL.org. Registration is fast and secure. Please log in or register.
 
Register on SIL
 
 
 
Language Development
Dict & Lexicography
Lang Assessment
Lang Programs Mgt.
Lang Technology
Literacy & Education
Media Development
Orthography
Translation
 
 
Language & Culture
Anthropology
Arts & Ethnomusicology
L & C Documentation
L & C Learning
Linguistics
Sign Languages
Sociolinguistics
 
 
Resources
Glossaries Ling Terms
L & C Archives
Publications
Software & Fonts
Related Sites
Ethnologue
ScriptSource
Webonary
ISO 639-3
Pike Center
 
 
Training
About SIL Training
For Specialists
Programs
Worldwide
On Location
Why Languages Matter
Endangered Languages
International Relations
Sign Languages
 
 
About SIL
Discover SIL
Administration
Consultants
Our History
Annual Updates
FAQs
Financial Information
Media Center
News
 
 
SIL International Publications
About SIL Publications
FAQs
Contact SIL Publications
Get Involved
Donate Online
Donate by Check
Matching Gifts
Contact Us
 
 
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 
Copyright © 2020 SIL International
Terms of Use   |   Privacy Policy   |   External Links Disclaimer
 
 
 
 
 
 