Wikipedia:Hak cipta - Wikipédia Sunda, énsiklopédi bébas
Lompat ke isi
Menu utama
Menu utama
pindah ke bilah sisi
sumputkeun
Pituduh
TepasPanglawunganKeur lumangsungAnyar robahKaca acakPitulungSumbanganSawala
Basa
Pranala bahasa ada di bagian atas halaman, di seberang judul.
Paluruh
Paluruh
Jieun akunAsup log
Parabot pribadi
 Jieun akun Asup log
Halaman penyunting yang telah keluar log pelajari lebih lanjut
KontribusiObrolan
Eusi
pindah ke bilah sisi
sumputkeun
Mimiti
1Hak jeung kawajiban pamaké
Toggle Hak jeung kawajiban pamaké subsection
1.1Example notice
1.2Fair use materials and special requirements
2Tungtunan gambar
Toggle Tungtunan gambar subsection
2.1Tagging
2.2Fotograf pamaréntah
2.3Fotograf selebriti
3Hak jeung kawajiban kontributor
Toggle Hak jeung kawajiban kontributor subsection
3.1Migunakeun karya hak cipta batur
3.2Numbukeun ka karya nu mibanda hak cipta
3.3If you find a copyright infringement
4If you are the owner of Wikipedia-hosted content being used without your permission
5Tempo ogé
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Wikipedia:Hak cipta
126 basa
АԥсшәаAfrikaansAlemannischAragonésالعربيةالدارجةمصرىঅসমীয়াAsturianuАварAzərbaycancaБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)Българскиবাংলাབོད་ཡིགBrezhonegBosanskiCatalàНохчийнCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschZazakiΕλληνικάEnglishEsperantoEspañolEestiEuskaraفارسیFulfuldeSuomiVõroFrançaisGaeilge贛語Galegoગુજરાતીעבריתहिन्दीHrvatskiMagyarՀայերենInterlinguaBahasa IndonesiaIlokanoГӀалгӀайÍslenskaItaliano日本語ქართულიQaraqalpaqshaҚазақшаKalaallisut한국어RipoarischKurdîLëtzebuergeschLimburgsLigureLombardLietuviųLatviešuMalagasyMāoriМакедонскиമലയാളംमराठीBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာمازِرونیNapulitanoPlattdüütschNedersaksiesनेपाल भाषाNederlandsNorsk nynorskNorsk bokmålଓଡ଼ିଆИронPolskiپښتوPortuguêsRuna SimiRomani čhibRomânăTarandíneРусскийСаха тылаSicilianuScotsسنڌيSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaShqipСрпски / srpskiSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుTetunТоҷикӣไทยTagalogTok PisinTürkçeТатарча / tatarçaУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаVènetoTiếng ViệtVolapükWalonייִדיש中文Bân-lâm-gú粵語
Édit tutumbu
Kaca proyékSawala
Sunda
BacaÉdit sumberTémbongkeun jujutan
Parabot
Parabot
pindah ke bilah sisi
sumputkeun
Tindakan
BacaÉdit sumberTémbongkeun jujutan
Umum
Anu nutumbu ka dieuParobahan nu pataliUnjal berkasKaca hususTutumbu permanénÉmbaran kacaButir di Wikidata
Citak/ékspor
Jieun hiji pustakaUndeur minangka PDFVérsi citakeun
Di proyék lianna
Wikimedia CommonsMediaWikiMeta-WikiWikisource multibahasaWikispesiesWikidata
Ti Wikipédia Sunda, énsiklopédi bébas
Artikel ieu keur dikeureuyeuh, ditarjamahkeun tina basa Inggris. Bantuanna didagoan pikeun narjamahkeun.
Cita-cita Wikipédia nyaéta pikeun nyieun sumber béja dina hiji format énsiklopédi nu disadiakeun kalawan bébas (haratis). Lisénsi nu dipaké ngajamin aksés bébas ka sakabéh eusina sakumaha software bébas dilisénsikeun kalawan bébas. Prinsip ieu dipikawanoh salaku copyleft. Hartina, eusi Wikipédia bisa disalin, dirobah, sarta disebarkeun sapanjang vérsi anyarna ngajamin kabébasan nu sarua ka nu séjén sarta nganyahokeun penulis artikel Wikipédia nu dipaké (a direct link back to the article satisfies our author credit requirement). Artikel Wikipédia ku kituna bakal tetep bébas salawasna sarta bisa dipaké ku singsaha waé asal bisa tetep ngajamin kabébasanana.
Pikeun nedunan cita-cita éta, téks nu aya na Wikipédia dilisénsikeun dina panangtayungan Lisénsi Dokumén Bébas GNU (GNU Free Documentation License, GFDL). Téks lengkep lisénsi ieu aya di Téks Lisénsi Dokumén Bébas GNU. 
Nyalin, nyebarkeun, sarta/atawa ngarubah dokumén ieu aya dina panangtayungan Lisénsi Dokumén Bébas GNU, Vérsi 1.2 atawa vérsi nu salajengna nu dikaluarkeun ku Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover Texts.
Salinan lisénsina aya dina bagian nu judulna "Lisénsi Dokumén Bébas GNU".
Eusi Wikipédia dipayungan ku bantahan.
The text of the GFDL is the only legally binding document; what follows is our interpretation of the GFDL: the rights and obligations of users and contributors.
PENTING: Mun anjeun hayang ngagunakeun kandungan Wikipédia, baca heula bab Hak jeung kawajiban pamaké. Salajengna anjeun kudu maca Lisénsi Dokumén Bébas GNU.
Hak jeung kawajiban pamaké[édit sumber]
Mun anjeun hayang maké bahan-bahan Wikipédia dina buku/artikel/jalaloka anjeun sorangan atawa publikasi séjénna, anjeun kudu nuturkeun bagéan 2 GFDL na nyalin verbatim, sakumaha nu disawalakeun na nyalin verbatim.
Mun anjeun nyieun vérsi turunan ku jalan ngarobah atawa nambahan eusina, ieu ngudukeun:
bahan-bahan anjeun saterusna kudu dilisénsikeun dina panangtayungan GFDL,
anjeun kudu nganyahokeun authorship artikelna (bagéan 4B), jeung
anjeun kudu nyadiakeun aksés ka "salinan transparan" bahanna (bagéan 4J). ("Salinan transparan" artikel Wikipédia nyaéta téks wiki-na.)
You may be able to partially fulfill the latter two obligations by providing a conspicuous direct link back to the Wikipedia article hosted on this website. You also need to provide access to a transparent copy of the new text. However, pléase note that the Wikimedia Foundation makes no guarantee to retain authorship information and a transparent copy of articles. Therefore, you are encouraged to provide this authorship information and a transparent copy with your derived works.
Example notice[édit sumber]
An example notice, for an article that uses the Wikipedia article Foo might réad as follows:
This article is licensed under the <a href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html">GNU Free Documentation License</a>. It uses material from the <a href="http://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foo">Wikipedia article "Foo"</a>.
("Foo" and the Wikipedia URL must of course be substituted accordingly.)
Alternatively you can distribute your copy of Foo along with a copy of the GFDL (as explained in the text) and list at léast five (or all if fewer than five) principal authors on the title page (or top of the document).
Fair use materials and special requirements[édit sumber]
All original Wikipedia text is distributed under the GFDL. Occasionally, Wikipedia articles may include images, sounds, or text quotes used under the U.S. Copyright law "fair use" doctrine. It is preferred that these be obtained under the most free (libre) license (such as the GFDL or public domain) practical. In cases where no such images/sounds are currently available, then fair use images are acceptable (until such time as free images become available). 
In such a case, the material should be identified as from an external source (on the image description page, or history page, 
as appropriate). As "fair use" is specific to the use that you contemplate it is best if your describe the fair use rationale for such specific use either in hidden text in the article or on the image description page. Remember what is fair use for Wikipedia may not be considered a fair use for your intended use of the content in another context.
For example, if we include an image under fair use, you must ensure that your
use of the article also qualifies for fair use (this might not be the case,
for example, if you were using a Wikipedia article for a commercial use that
would otherwise be allowed by the GFDL and the fair use would not be allowed under that commercial use).
Wikipedia does use some text under licenses that are compatible with the GFDL but may require additional terms that we do not require for original Wikipedia text (such as including Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts, or Back-Cover Texts). When using these materials, you have to include those invariant sections verbatim.
An approval process for fair use images at has been proposed at Wikipedia:Fair use. Images which have gone through that process carry the tag:
{{verifieduse}}Citakan:Verifieduse
Tungtunan gambar[édit sumber]
Gambar jeung fotograf, sakumaha karya tinulis séjénna mangrupa subjék tina hak cipta. Aya nu mibogana iwal mun ku manéhna geus sacara éksplisit ditempatkeun di domain umum. Gambar ti internét perlu dilisénsikeun sacara langsung ti nu nyepeng hak cipta atawa ti nu séjén nu bisa ngalisénsikeun ngawakilan nu hakna. Dina sababaraha kasus, tungtunan fair use bisa ngawenangkeun dipakéna hiji fotograf.
Tagging[édit sumber]
Image description pages can be tagged with a special tag to indicate the legal status of the images, as described at Wikipedia:image copyright tags. It is uncléar what should happen if different images have been uploaded with different copyright statuses.
Fotograf pamaréntah[édit sumber]
Karya-karya nu dihasilkeun ku pagawé pamaréntah féderal Amérika Sarikat dina cakupan gawéna aya dina domain umum nurutkeun undang-undang. However, note that, despite popular misconception, the US Federal Government can own copyrights that are assigned to it by others. As a general rule photographs on .mil and .gov sites are public domain. However there are some notable exceptions. Check the privacy and security notice of the website. It should also be noted that governments outside the US often do claim copyright over works produced by their employees (for example, Crown Copyright in the United Kingdom). Also, most state governments in the United States do not place their work into the public domain and do in fact own the copyright to their work. Pléase be careful to check ownership information before copying.
Fotograf selebriti[édit sumber]
This is based on the image guidelines at IMDB, so it especially applies to celebrity photographs, but also can apply to other pictures. Legitimate photographs generally come from three different places with permission.
The studios, producers, magazine publisher, or media outlet that originally shot the photograph.
Agencies that represent the photographers who shot the photos or the photographer themself (the latter especially for amateur photographs)
Submissions from the celebrity themselves or a legal representatives of the celebrity.
Hak jeung kawajiban kontributor[édit sumber]
Mun anjeun nyumbangkeun bahan ka Wikipédia, hartina anjeun ngalisénsikeun éta karya ka umum dina panangtayungan GFDL (with no invariant sections, front-cover texts, or back-cover texts).
Pikeun nyumbang, hartina anjeun kudu dina kaayaan ngajamin lisénsi ieu nu maksudna
anjeun ngapimilik hakcipta bahan nu dimaksud, misalna ku sabab mémang anjeun nu nyiptakeunana, atawa
anjeun nyokot bahanna ti sumber nu ngawenangkeun ngalisénsi dina panangtayungan GFDL, misal ku sabab bahanna aya dina domain umum atawa mémang geus ti dituna medal dina panangtayungan GFDL.
In the first case, you retain copyright to your materials. You can later republish and relicense them in any way you like. However, you can never retract the GFDL license for the versions you placed here: that material will remain under GFDL forever. In the second case, if you incorporate external GFDL materials, as a requirement of the GFDL, you need to acknowledge the authorship and provide a link back to the network location of the original copy. If the original copy required invariant sections, you have to incorporate those into the Wikipedia article; it is however very desirable to replace GFDL texts with invariant sections by original content without invariant sections whenever possible.
Migunakeun karya hak cipta batur[édit sumber]
If you use part of a copyrighted work under "fair use", or if you obtain special permission to use a copyrighted work from the copyright holder under the terms of our license, you must maké a note of that fact (along with names and dates). It is our goal to be able to freely redistribute as much of Wikipedia's material as possible, so original images and sound files licensed under the GFDL or in the public domain are gréatly preferred to copyrighted media files used under fair use. See Wikipedia:Boilerplate request for permission for a form letter asking a copyright holder to grant us a license to use their work under terms of the GFDL. 
Never use materials that infringe the copyrights of others.
This could créate legal liabilities and seriously hurt the project.
If in doubt, write it yourself.
Note that copyright law governs the creative expression of idéas, not the idéas or information themselves. Therefore, it is perfectly legal to réad an encyclopedia article or other work, reformulate it in your own words, and submit it to Wikipedia. (See plagiarism and fair use for discussions of how much reformulation is necessary in a general context.)
Numbukeun ka karya nu mibanda hak cipta[édit sumber]
Numbukeun ka karya nu mibanda hak cipta biasana mah teu masalah, salila anjeun yakin yén kaca nu ditujul teu ngarumpak hak cipta batur. Mun mémang kitu, ulah numbukeun ka kaca éta. Whether such a link is contributory infringement is currently being debated in the courts, but in any case, linking to a site that illegally distributes soméone else's work sheds a bad light on us.
If you find a copyright infringement[édit sumber]
It is not the job of rank-and-file Wikipedians to police every article for possible copyright infringement, but if you suspect one, you should at the very léast bring up the issue on that page's talk page. Others can then examine the situation and take action if needed. The most helpful piece of information you can provide is a URL or other reference to what you believe may be the source of the text.
Some cases will be false alarms. For example, if the contributor was in fact the author of the text that is published elsewhere under different terms, that does not affect their right to post it here under the GFDL. Also, sometimes you will find text elsewhere on the Web that was copied from Wikipedia. In both of these cases, it is a good idéa to maké a note in the talk page to discourage such false alarms in the future.
If some of the content of a page réally is an infringement, then the infringing content should be removed, and a note to that effect should be made on the talk page, along with the original source. If the author's permission is obtained later, the text can be restored.
If all of the content of a page is a suspected copyright infringement, then the page should be listed it on Wikipedia:Possible copyright infringements and the content of the article replaced by the standard notice which you can find there. If, after a week, the page still appéars to be a copyright infringement, then it may be deleted following the procedures on the votes page.
In extreme cases of contributors continuing to post copyrighted material after appropriate warnings, such users may be blocked from editing to protect the project.
If you are the owner of Wikipedia-hosted content being used without your permission[édit sumber]
If you are the owner of content that is being used on Wikipedia without your permission, then you may request the page be immediately removed from Wikipedia by following  this link. You can also contact our Designated agent to have it permanently removed, but it may take up to a week for the page to be deleted that way (you may also blank the page but the text will still be in the page history). Either way, we will, of course, need some evidence to support your claim of ownership.
Tempo ogé[édit sumber]
The Wikipedia:Contributing FAQ for questions on copyright.
Wikipedia's designated agent under OCILLA
Wikipedia:Sites that use Wikipedia as a source
Wikipedia:Standard GFDL violation letter
Wikipedia:Possible copyright infringements
Wikipedia:Spotting possible copyright violations
Sawala salajengna...
Wikipedia:Copyright issues
m:Wikipedia and copyright issues
m:Avoid Copyright Paranoia
m:Permission grant extent
Dicomot ti "https://su.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Hak_cipta&oldid=548913"
Kategori: Artikel perlu ditarjamahkeun tina basa InggrisÉmbaran dasar WikipédiaWikipédia:Hak cipta
 Kaca ieu panungtungan diédit 8 Januari 2019, jam 18.27.
Téks sadia dina  Lisénsi Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike; katangtuan tambahan kamungkinan lumaku.
Témbong Katangtuan pamakéan pikeun detailna.
Kawijakan privasi
Ngeunaan Wikipedia
Bantahan
Kode Etik
Pidangan sélulér
Pamekar
Statistik
Pernyataan réréméh
Toggle limited content width