BBC NEWS | UK | 5.5m Britons 'opt to live abroad'
HomeNewsSportRadioTVWeatherLanguages

[an error occurred while processing this directive]
Low graphics|Accessibility help

One-Minute World News
News services
Your news when you want it
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education
Magazine
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
RELATED BBC SITES
SPORT
WEATHER
ON THIS DAY
EDITORS' BLOG
Last Updated: Monday, 11 December 2006, 00:00 GMT

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            

5.5m Britons 'opt to live abroad'
Brits Abroad

                        By Dominic Casciani
                    

                        BBC News
                    
Almost one in 10 British citizens is living overseas, according to a study of people coming in and out of the UK. 

Studies by the Institute for Public Policy Research, published on the BBC News website, indicate that at least 5.5m British-born people live abroad. 

Figures suggest the rate of departure has been so great that population falls are only masked by immigration.

While Australia and Spain are the top locations, increasing numbers are heading to major Asian economies.

The research by the institute (IPPR) is the first significant attempt to put a figure on the number of British citizens who live overseas. 

                            LOCATIONS WITH GROWING COMMUNITIES
                        
UAE (Inc Dubai): 55,000
Pakistan: 47,000
Singapore: 45,000
Thailand: 41,000
China: 36,000
See where Britons live around the world

The study found 5.5 million expat Britons - a number that rises to six million if those who live or work part of the year abroad are included. Taken together, they represent approximately 10% of British citizens. Until now, tentative government estimates of expats had ranged from 4.5 million to 14 million. 

Over the course of 40 years, some 67,500 more Britons have left the UK every year than have returned - a population loss that has been balanced out by increasing immigration.

The number of British citizens who chose to go permanently abroad doubled from 53,000 in 2001 to 107,000 last year - some 2,000 people a week. 

The majority of expats live in Australia, Spain, the US and other English speaking nations. But in all some 41 nations each have at least 10,000 permanent British residents. The IPPR's figures have been calculated from official sources, such as census data, counts of pensions paid overseas, passport applications and other statistics.
Young and working

According to the IPPR's research, those most likely to leave the UK are young workers without families, along with those seeking to retire. 

                            Who left in 2004? 
                        
40% professional/managerial 
25.3% manual/clerical
17.5% retired/carers 
9.3% children 
7.9% students 
Source: International Passenger Survey/ONS
How the Brits Abroad data was compiled

Dhananjayan Sriskandarajah, co-author of the report, said that the scale and spread of the British expat diaspora was probably being driven by the UK's economic strength. 

A strong economy was attracting economic immigrants - but also encouraging Brits to broaden their opportunities. 

"Britain is truly at the crossroads of the global movement of people," said Dr Sriskandarajah. 

"Two-thirds of Britons who leave do so to seek employment abroad - and are replaced by skilled professionals from elsewhere in the world. 

"When the going is good, Brits get going."
More emigration expected 

Earlier this year, a BBC survey on emigration attitudes found the number hoping to leave in the near future had doubled since 2003. 
Everyone should try living abroad for a while - I spent a year in Sweden as a student, and while that's hardly a "different" culture, it's great to gain a closer insight into how other people live
 
Adrian Clark, London
Brit Abroad? Thinking of going? Send us your comments

Young people were the most likely to want to leave, with a quarter saying they were hoping to live abroad.

Dr Sriskandarajah said the new figures indicated emigration would grow further. 

"If current trends continue, we could expect as many as a million more British nationals to emigrate over the next five years," he said.

But Sir Andrew Green of Migrationwatch UK said the departure of British citizens should be seen against an annual arrival of some 300,000 immigrants. 

"This net migration is the key issue - that is those who come minus those who go," he said. 

"We now face by far the largest wave of immigration since 1066, even allowing for those who emigrate. This is putting enormous strain on our infrastructure, public services and on social cohesion."

                            WARNING TO EXPAT PENSIONERS
                        
British retirees need to realise that not many European countries have welfare provisions like the UK  
 
Bruce McIntyre, British Consul, Malaga
Foreign Office urges 'know before you go'

Lord Triesman, Foreign Office Minister for Consular Affairs, said he welcomed the report. 

"Globalisation has increased movement of people both to and from the UK," he said.

"The policy challenges are how to manage these flows effectively in order to respond to the changing needs of the UK.  This research will be helpful in understanding how best to address those challenges.

"The report also confirms what we at the FCO know to be true - that a small but significant proportion of British emigrants run into trouble because they have not planned their departure properly. 

"Much of what we do is designed to help people avoid such pitfalls, and we will continue to work hard in this area. "
Foreign Office survey 
The Foreign Office is researching consular needs and passport applications. It is seeking the views of British citizens in Hong Kong, the USA, Spain, Germany, Barbados, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Nigeria. To take part, click on the link to go the survey website run by market research company TNS. 
Foreign Office passports survey

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            
BRITS ABROAD
KEY STORIES
5.5m Britons 'opt to live abroad'
More Brits consider emigrating 
Q&A: Expats revealed
Country list
How the data was gathered
Explore the stats
Country-by-country data on where to find expats
FEATURES AND ANALYSIS
Viewpoint: Expats chase dreams
Expat figures migration warning
Going cool on Florida
What expats miss about home...
How does your name travel?
ADVICE TO WOULD-BE EXPATS
Brits abroad: Know before you go
Ex-pat retirees told 'think ahead'

                                        RELATED INTERNET LINKS
                                        
                                

                                                        IPPR
                                                        
                                                

                                                        Foreign Office
                                                        
                                                

                                                        UK government: Advice for Britons living abroad
                                                        
                                                

                                                The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
                                        
TOP UK STORIES
Major manhunt for Afghan soldier
Unemployment dips to 2.47 million
PM condemns sympathy for Moat
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
Tourists flock to 'Jesus's tomb' in Kashmir
Most popular now, in detail
MOST SHARED
MOST READ
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail



FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS

Ghost town




Has China's housing bubble burst?



The guerilla plant 




How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire



Walking away




Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit



Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts
BBC Copyright NoticeMMIX
Most Popular Now | 17,029 pages were read in the last minute.";
Back to top ^^
Help
Privacy and cookies policy
News sources
About the BBC
Contact us