Comparative Methods Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Comparative Methods3,717 FollowersRecent papers in Comparative MethodsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleJudicial borrowing and creeping influences: Indian jurisprudence in Sri Lankan public lawThe significant developments in Sri Lankan public law in the last three decades have been due to the explicit or implicit influence of Indian jurisprudence. This influence can be seen in Sri Lanka’s jurisprudence on the right to equality,... moreThe significant developments in Sri Lankan public law in the last three decades have been due to the explicit or implicit influence of Indian jurisprudence. This influence can be seen in Sri Lanka’s jurisprudence on the right to equality, the habeas corpus writ, the “basic structure” doctrine, the interpretation of the rules of standing, and in the fundamental rights jurisprudence. Since the establishment of British colonial rule, English common law has been the foundation and source for the development of Sri Lanka’s public law. Three methods characterize a recent turn to Indian jurisprudence in the development of public law. One method is of direct judicial borrowing. The second method is reinforcement of judicial reasoning by reliance on Indian jurisprudence. The third is the creeping influence of Indian jurisprudence. I argue that these developments unsettle, if not replace, the historical reliance on English law.  These developments are arguably an indication of a nascent Sri Lankan common law that draws its inspiration, at least in part, from a jurisprudence that bears constitutional proximity to India. Consequently, the place of English common law as the “main source of law” in Sri Lankan public law has now been weakened.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dinesha  Samararatne•  4  Comparative Public Law, Comparative Methods, Sri Lankan Law, Indian Constitutional LawCase Studies and Comparative Methods for Qualitative ResearchThis course focuses on how to design and conduct small-n case study and comparative research. Thinking outside of students' areas of interest and specialisms and topics, students will be encouraged to develop the concepts and comparative... moreThis course focuses on how to design and conduct small-n case study and comparative research. Thinking outside of students' areas of interest and specialisms and topics, students will be encouraged to develop the concepts and comparative frameworks that underpin these phenomena. In other words, students will begin to develop their research topics as cases of something. The course covers questions of design and methods of case study research, from single-n to small-n case studies including discussions of process tracing and Mill's methods. The course addresses both the theoretical and methodological discussions that underpin research design as well as the practical questions of how to conduct case study research, including gathering, assessing and using evidence. Examples from the fields of comparative politics, IR, development studies, sociology and European studies will be used throughout the lectures and seminars.Save to LibraryDownloadby Eleanor Knott•  3  Case Study Research, Comparative Methods, Case StudyComparison between ion chromatography and indirect photometry for the analytical determination of polyphosphates in foodBased on indirect approach, the reference method for the determination of polyphosphates (PPs) in food is characterized by high variability and possible errors in the final measurement. This method was validated in this work, and then... moreBased on indirect approach, the reference method for the determination of polyphosphates (PPs) in food is characterized by high variability and possible errors in the final measurement. This method was validated in this work, and then compared to the ion chromatography-based method, in terms of validation parameters, applicability to food analysis and management. Regarding validation parameters, the trueness (recovery percentage) and measurement uncertainty of two methods resulted comparable, while the precision of ion chromatography approach was higher. The applicability of two methods was also investigated by analyzing commercials samples, comparing the results to the PPs indicated on the label and then obtaining results in terms of “false positive” and “false negative” responses. No “false positive” responses were obtained using the ion chromatography method, while indirect photometry gave “false positive” responses in 5% of analyzed samples. Relating to “false negative” results, this possibility was verified for all food types tested (meats, dairy products and seafood) when using indirect photometry, and only for seafood when using ion chromatography. In this regard, the percentage of “false negative” responses was equal to 23.3% and 10.0% for indirect photometry and ion chromatography, respectively.The comparison allowed concluding that indirect photometry is useful as “screening technique”, while ion chromatography should be preferred as confirmatory technique.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marco Iammarino•  5  Food Safety, Comparative Methods, Ion Chromatography, Food AdditivesComparison in Qualitative ResearchComparison is a valuable and widely touted analytical technique in social research, but different disciplines and fields have markedly different notions of comparison. There are at least two important logics for comparison. The first,... moreComparison is a valuable and widely touted analytical technique in social research, but different disciplines and fields have markedly different notions of comparison. There are at least two important logics for comparison. The first, the logic of juxtaposition, is guided by a neopositivist orientation. It uses a regularity theory of causation; it structures the study by defining cases, variables, and units of analysis a priori; and it decontextualizes knowledge. The second, the logic of tracing, engages a realist theory of causation and examines how processes unfold, influenced by actors and the meanings they make, over time, in different locations, and at different scales. These two logics of comparison lead to distinct methodological techniques. However, with either logic of comparison, three dangers merit attention: decontextualization, commensurability, and ethnocentrism. One promising research heuristic that attends to different logics of comparison while avoiding these dangers is the comparative case study (CCS) approach. CCS entails three axes of comparison. The horizontal axis encourages comparison of how similar policies and practices unfold across sites at roughly the same level or scale, for example across a set of schools or across home, school, religious institution, and community organization. The vertical axis urges comparison across micro-, meso-, and macro-levels or scales. For example, a study of bilingual education in the United States should attend not only to homes, communities, classroom, and school dynamics (the micro-level), but also to meso-level district, state, and federal policies, as well as to factors influencing international mobility at the macro-level. Finally, the transversal axis, which emphasizes change over time, urges scholars to situate historically the processes or relations under consideration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lesley  Bartlett•  3  Comparative & International Education, Comparative Methods, Comparative EducationDESIGNING E-LEARNING IN MEDICAL EDUCATION: TOWARD A COMPREHENSIVE MODELThis study was conducted to present a comprehensive model for designing e-learning in Medical education. This qualitative study was performed in three stages. First, we used the "critical review" approach proposed by CarnWell to... moreThis study was conducted to present a comprehensive model for designing e-learning in Medical education. This qualitative study was performed in three stages. First, we used the "critical review" approach proposed by CarnWell to synthesize a conceptual model from studies that employ e-learning in Medical education. In the second stage, using Bereday's comparative method, 30 renowned virtual universities were evaluated. Finally, after aggregating and summarizing the results of the previous stages, the model was presented. The results of the study showed that designing e-learning in medical education requires making plans on national and international levels. Moreover, for qualitative and quantitative improvement of e-learning, global progress, achievements, and standards should be monitored continuously, and strategic, tactical, and executive aspects should be rigorously addressed. This comprehensive model for the design and development of e-learning in medical education is identified as an area requiring further research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nahid  zarifsanaiey•  6  Design, E-learning, Qualitative methodology, Comparative MethodsInventing Baptism: The Religious Histories of the Origin of "Christian Baptism"This essay exposes the ideological biases characterizing recent research into the origin of "Christian baptism" as scholars variously root its origin in their preferred religion (Greco-Roman, Jewish, or sui generis Christianity). This is... moreThis essay exposes the ideological biases characterizing recent research into the origin of "Christian baptism" as scholars variously root its origin in their preferred religion (Greco-Roman, Jewish, or sui generis Christianity). This is made possible in part through the constructed categories of various types of “baptisms” and a preference for "Christian baptism," which controls comparison. To remedy the distortion of sources, I propose that a robust implementation of comparative method is necessary, including clarification on what, why, and how we compare. This will shed clearer light on the origin of the religious ritual of baptism in, of, and around the Bible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Benjamin Snyder•  11  Comparative Religion, Early Christianity, Comparative Methods, BaptismPrinciples & Practice of Comparative ResearchRubric: Comparative method is a powerful method to: test hypotheses, infer causation, illustrate and gain in depth understanding of specific patterns, and interpret social change. This course engages with these concepts providing an... moreRubric: Comparative method is a powerful method to: test hypotheses, infer causation, illustrate and gain in depth understanding of specific patterns, and interpret social change. This course engages with these concepts providing an overview of comparative method in social policy research.Aims: The course explores the basic principles and characteristics of comparative method and assesses the potential use of a wide range of comparative methodologies and approaches. The course is suitable for all students willing to gain a wider perspective on the principles and practice of comparative research in social policy. Content and Structure: The course is divided in two parts: (1) the first two lectures introduce the principles of comparative method, (2) the other six lectures discuss the use of specific methods (Comparative Historical Analysis, Qualitative Comparative historical Analysis, Time Series Cross-Sectional Analysis, various clustering techniques and the integration between different methods) and identify recurrent problems in comparative social policy research (e.g. the use of the Average Production Worker). A final lecture will re-cap the main concepts and offer an informed collective assessment of the essays submitted in week 6 (a sort of ‘method clinic’).The readings are based on a wide range of literature, i.e. comparative politics, political theory, comparative sociology, sociological theory and comparative social policy. In addition, each lecture provides applied examples of the methods discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuele Ferragina•  9  Sociology, Comparative Politics, Social Policy, Social Research Methods and MethodologyContrasts (agency and difference) in nineteenth- century writings on architecture and design: Pugin, Ruskin and Wilde.The juxtaposition of style or historical epochs (Gothic against Greek, past against present) is a common attribute of nineteenth century architectural criticism. While Pugin's Contrasts; Or, A Parallel Between the Noble Edifices Of The... moreThe juxtaposition of style or historical epochs (Gothic against Greek, pastagainst present) is a common attribute of nineteenth century architecturalcriticism. While Pugin's Contrasts; Or, A Parallel Between the Noble Edifices OfThe Fourteenth And Fifteenth Centuries, And Similar Buildings of the PresentDay (1836) provides an explicit example of this methodology a similar relianceon stylistic and/or temporal binaries is also evident in the later writings of JohnRuskin and Oscar Wilde. The aim of this paper is to compare Pugin's Contrastswith those of Ruskin and Wilde. Initially adhering to the romantic propositionthat all objects are dependent on the development of an ‘opposite’ for theirrepresentation and being, the treatment of this ‘other’ by each critic revealsdivergent stylistic motives ranging from the hierarchical (asserting the authorityof one by the denigration of the other), appropriation (where opposites combineto generate a third and superior category) and analogical (the simultaneousacknowledgement and autonomy of similarity and difference). Acknowledging athird conceptualisation of the ‘other’ (analogy) that fails to conform withpostcolonial models of appropriation and denigration, the paper will alsodemonstrate the methodological importance of ‘difference,’ and the varyingtolerances to it, within internal critiques of English architectural practicethroughout the nineteenth century..Save to LibraryDownloadby Deborah  van der Plaat•  12  Intellectual History, Comparative Methods, Art Criticism, Oscar WildeCausal case studies: Foundations and Guidelines for Comparing, Matching and TracingIn this comprehensive introduction to causal case study methods, Derek Beach, Rasmus Brun Pedersen, and their coauthors delineate the ontological and epistemological differences among these methods, offer suggestions for determining the... moreIn this comprehensive introduction to causal case study methods, Derek Beach, Rasmus Brun Pedersen, and their coauthors delineate the ontological and epistemological differences among these methods, offer suggestions for determining the appropriate methods for a given research project, and explain the step-by-step application of selected methods. The authors begin with the cohesive, logical foundations for small-n comparative methods, congruence methods, and process-tracing, and they delineate the distinctive types of causal relationships for which each method is appropriate. Next, the authors provide practical instruction for deploying each of the methods individually and in combination. They walk the researcher through each stage of the research process, starting with issues of concept formation and the formulation of causal claims in ways that are compatible with case-based research. They then develop guidelines for making causal inferences using Bayesian logic in an informal, nontechnical fashion as a set of practical questions for translating empirical data into evidence that may or may not confirm causal relationships. Widely acclaimed instructors, the authors draw upon their extensive experience at the graduate level in university classrooms, summer and winter school courses, and professional workshops, literally all over the globe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Derek Beach•  5  Case Study Research, Comparative Methods, Process Tracing, Process Tracing and Qualitative ResearchLa alegoría del carro del alma en Platón y en la Kaṭha Upaniṣad
[The Allegory of the Soul Chariot in Plato and the Kaṭha Upaniṣad]Save to LibraryDownloadby Paolo Magnone•  21  Comparative Literature, Comparative Philosophy, History of Thought, Indian Philosophy“Ninian Smart” (founder of the academic study of religion in Britain). British Writers. Supplement XXIV (2018)Citation: Buck, Christopher. “Ninian Smart (1927–2001).” British Writers, Supplement XXIV. Ed. Jay Parini. Farmington Hills, MI: Charles Scribner’s Sons/The Gale Group, 2018. Pp. 269–283. ISBN-13: 978-0684325156. (Release date: September... moreCitation:Buck, Christopher. “Ninian Smart (1927–2001).” British Writers, Supplement XXIV. Ed. Jay Parini. Farmington Hills, MI: Charles Scribner’s Sons/The Gale Group, 2018. Pp. 269–283. ISBN-13: 978-0684325156. (Release date: September 8, 2017.)ABSTRACTACADEMICS IN RELIGIOUS STUDIES have a long- standing joke. Question: “What is the difference between Ninian Smart and God?” Answer: “God is everywhere. Ninian Smart is everywhere but here!” (Ninian Smart on World Religions, p. xxi). That one-liner about Smart’s ubiquity attests not only to the reach of his publications but also to his international influence in the emergence of the scholarly field of religious studies—first and foremost in Britain and, more widely, in North America, Australia, and New Zealand. Almost single-handedly, Ninian Smart “founded the academic study of religion in Britain” and “gave intellectual structure and shape to the field in the rest of the English-speaking world, especially the U.S.A.,” according to Jacob Neusner (“Remembering Ninian Smart,” pp. 355–356). Yet Smart was far more than an academic. In writing books about philosophy and world religions, he was steeped in deep thought, immersed in higher thinking. Human and social values were his subject matter. He compared cultures, religions, philosophies, and political ideologies such as Marxism and Maoism. His own thinking about Buddhist enlightenment, Confucian order, Taoist freedom, Hindu liberation, Christian salvation, and so forth produced a wonderful, if not exotic, synthesis. He could see the full picture, understand human dilemmas, and propose global orientations in solutions that were simple, yet profound. A gentleman and a scholar in every sense, Smart was a down-to-earth man but a noble soul, with a grand vision of the world and the direction he believed that it needed to take. … Despite his Scottish flourishes—eating his porridge with salt and pepper, and occasionally donning his kilt and tartan—Ninian Smart was humanitarian and universal. He presented a vision and version of Christianity that could seriously engage with the fact of religious pluralism and operate in an entirely secular mode as well. Smart was fond of joking: “Comparative religion will make you comparatively religious” (quoted in Strenski, “Ninian Smart and the Overcoming of Philosophy,” p. 369). He recognized wisdom and insight in various religious and cultural settings, and he broke free entirely of parochial presumptions. In that regard, he was both theologian and academic. Ninian Smart, almost single-handedly, was instrumental in institutionalizing the academic study of religion. The entire discipline is indebted to his leadership and legacy. Now available in the Gale Virtual Reference Library (GVRL) database.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Buck•  51  Religion, Comparative Religion, History, Intellectual HistoryChinese and Global Philosophy: Postcomparative Transcultural Approaches and the Method of SublationPDF link to article... morePDF link to article  https://link.springer.com/epdf/10.1007/s11712-022-09823-1?sharing_token=NBqnLlQ4Vyz9JIlQLUo3r_e4RwlQNchNByi7wbcMAY7RE98WzxHUGL8DWOF6Anhhyku-2Ob-RRv0dh17ZZl9CjXK6ezvr4JNCJ5O7q_RXLGGLOh1Q9-KQ4xK1CAPldgze9E35kH65L1cCE6RnH_WIzv9QcSsz2on4WWBOIOqF5I%3D The essay deals with problems encountered by Western researchers working in the field of Chinese philosophy. It begins with a discussion of intercultural and transcultural methodologies and illuminates some of the most common issues inherent in traditional intercultural comparisons in the field of philosophy. Taking into account the current state of the so-called postcomparative discourses in the field of transcultural philosophy and starting from the notion of culturally divergent frames of reference, it focuses upon semantic aspects of the Chinese philosophical tradition and exposes the need for discursive translations. On this basis, a new postcomparative approach in transcultural philosophical studies of Chinese philosophy is suggested. In this context, the author proposes the application of an innovative principle, based upon what can preliminary be denoted as the method of sublation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jana Rosker•  19  Philosophy, Chinese Philosophy, Comparative Philosophy, Chinese StudiesRethinking Case Study ResearchSave to LibraryDownloadby Lesley  Bartlett•  6  Qualitative methodology, Qualitative Methods, Comparative & International Education, Comparative MethodsSalaymeh, Lena and Ralf Michaels. "Decolonial comparative law: a conceptual beginning." Rabels Zeitschrift für ausländisches und internationales Privatrecht (RabelsZ) 86, no. 1 (2022): 166-88.This article introduces the intellectual motivations behind the establishment of the Decolonial Comparative Law research project. Beginning with an overview of the discipline of comparative law, we identify several methodological impasses... moreThis article introduces the intellectual motivations behind the establishment ofthe Decolonial Comparative Law research project. Beginning with an overview of the discipline of comparative law, we identify several methodological impasses that have not been resolved by previous critical approaches. We then introduce decolonial theory, generally, and decolonial legal studies, specifically, and argue for a decolonial approach to comparative law. We explain that decoloniality’s emphasis on delinking from coloniality and on recognizing pluriversality can improve on some problematic and embedded assumptions in mainstream comparative law. We also provide an outline of a conceptual beginning for decolonial approaches to comparative law.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lena Salaymeh and +1Ralf Michaels•  8  Comparative Law, Research Methodology, International Law, Legal TheoryE. B. Tylor, A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, C. Lévi-Strauss y otros, El parentesco. Textos fundamentales (Introducción, selección y traducción de F. Bossert, P. Sendón y D. Villar)Compilación, edición, traducción e introducción de F. Bossert, P. Sendón y D. Villar a diecinueve ensayos sobre parentesco de Edward Burnett Tylor, Émile Durkheim, Alfred Kroeber, Willam H. Rivers, Edward E. Evans-Pritchard, Alfred R.... moreCompilación, edición, traducción e introducción de F. Bossert, P. Sendón y D. Villar a diecinueve ensayos sobre parentesco de Edward Burnett Tylor, Émile Durkheim, Alfred Kroeber, Willam H. Rivers, Edward E. Evans-Pritchard, Alfred R. Radcliffe-Brown, Fred Eggan, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Louis Dumont, Jack Goody, Floyd Lounsbury, David Schneider y Rodney Needham. La selección de los trabajos no sólo procura abarcar un siglo de investigaciones sistemáticas sobre la materia sino también, mediante su introducción crítica, ponderar su relevancia para el estudio antropológico de las sociedades indígenas latinoamericanas (Andes, Chaco, Amazonía). No intenta prescribir de forma dogmática la utilización indiscriminada de los modelos clásicos, sino más bien demostrar la imposibilidad de alcanzar soluciones satisfactorias si se descartan las propuestas de un número considerable de estudiosos de valía que dedicaron tiempo y esfuerzo a la labor antropológica. Lo que este volumen cuestiona, en definitiva, es la noción misma de que haya modelos de parentesco clásicos: simplemente hay buenos y malos modelos.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pablo F Sendón and +1Diego Villar•  105  Cultural Studies, Social Theory, Ethnic Studies, AnthropologyRitual Purity and the Origin of John's Βάπτισμα ΜετανοίαςRitual Purity and the Origin of John's Βάπτισμα Μετανοίας This study re-examines the origin of John’s “baptism” by contextualizing it within the ritual purity concerns of Second Temple Judaism. It critically employs the comparative... moreRitual Purity and the Origin of John's Βάπτισμα ΜετανοίαςThis study re-examines the origin of John’s “baptism” by contextualizing it within the ritual purity concerns of Second Temple Judaism. It critically employs the comparative method with an eclectic use of ritual studies, historical-critical method, archaeology, and linguistics. This work intervenes in the attempt to link John’s “baptism” to a specific antecedent (e.g., Qumran, “proselyte baptism,” etc.) and argues that John’s “baptism,” like the washings of the other antecedents, was an act of ritual purity performed in accordance with norms governing human-divine encounter (e.g., a theophany).La pureté rituelle et l'origin du βάπτισμα μετανοίας de JeanCette étude réexamine l’origine du «baptême» de Jean en le contextualisant dans les préoccupations de la pureté rituelle du judaïsme du Second Temple. Il utilise de manière critique la méthode comparative avec un recours éclectique aux études rituelles, à la méthode historico-critique, à l'archéologie et à la linguistique. Cette œuvre intervient dans l’essai à lier le «baptême» de John à un antécédent précis (par exemple, Qumran, «baptême du prosélyte», etc.) et soutient que le «baptême» de John, comme le lavage des autres antécédents, était un acte de la pureté rituelle conformément aux normes régissant la rencontre homme-divin (par exemple, une théophanie).Save to LibraryDownloadby Benjamin Snyder•  10  Origins of Christianity, Second Temple Judaism, Comparative Methods, BaptismSyllabus: Intro to Comparative Politics (200-level)This course introduces students to the basics of comparative politics, which is the study of political phenomena in a comparative manner. Put differently, comparative politics refers to the methods of comparative analysis, rather than... moreThis course introduces students to the basics of comparative politics, which is the study of political phenomena in a comparative manner. Put differently, comparative politics refers to the methods of comparative analysis, rather than particular subjects of study. Accordingly, the course discusses applications of comparative methods to a wide range of topics, including but not limited to regime types, political institutions, electoral systems, political parties, and economic development. The course content covers developed and underdeveloped countries, as well as democracies and dictatorships. After completing the requirements of this course, you should be familiar with (1) the most commonly used methods of comparative inquiry, (2) complexities of concepts such as democracy, representation, and their measurements, and (3) major theoretical perspectives in Comparative Politics, and the empirical evidence that offers support to them.Save to LibraryDownloadby Serdar Kaya•  4  Comparative Politics, Political Science, Comparative Methods, Comparative MethodologyDilemas de la Comparación, la Similitud y la Diferencia en la Antropología y en el Análisis de Redes Sociales (2019)El método comparativo con el que se envaneció la antropología desde sus inicios (y por el que la disciplina fuera cuestionada por todos los relativismos, perspectivismos y decolonialismos que han habido) nunca existió en plenitud hasta... moreEl método comparativo con el que se envaneció la antropología desde sus inicios (y por el que la disciplina fuera cuestionada por todos los relativismos, perspectivismos y decolonialismos que han habido) nunca existió en plenitud hasta bien entrado el siglo que corre. Las nuevas y las viejas ciencias cognitivas, la psicología y las matemáticas saben desde hace tiempo (o deberían saberlo) que la similitud, la diferencia y la analogía nunca han sido operaciones transparentes ni formalmente bien fundadas  hasta prácticamente ahora.  Desclasificada la información de la Guerra Fría, muchos de los logros de las corrientes comparativistas de mediados del siglo XX han quedado borradas del mapa. Los autores comparativistas más reputados (George Peter Murdock es el caso más penoso) han sido -como hoy se dice- "cancelados" sin miramientos  en la investigación contemporánea. Incluso los que pasan por ser los mejores avances de los métodos geométricos de la representación de proximidades y distancias (identificados sin mucha razón con los análisis de Pierre Bourdieu) revelan hoy su estrechez al no poder expresar las matemáticas complejas de la no linealidad y al no distinguir cualitativamente entre un valor de magnitud un poco mayor y otro abismalmente más grande. Las tipificaciones cuantitativas rozan el absurdo al describir los valores extremos como "mayores a X" o "menores que Y" sin especificar el orden de las magnitudes implicadas. Las últimas revisiones practicadas sobre el texto introdujeron como eje principal las más recientes elaboraciones de la antropología y la arqueología virtual en torno de la geometría morfométrica, capitalizando las innovaciones abiertas por Franz Boas (1905) y devolviendo la iniciativa a nuestras ciencias después de un tiempo demasiado largo en que proliferó el uso acrítico de estadísticas paramétricas y técnicas galtonianas de regresión preñadas de racismo. Este libro hipertextual explora los mitos urbanos más recónditos y difundidos sobre la comparación, traza el mapa de la casi totalidad de la literatura referida a la idea y ofrece nuevas formas de afrontar ya sea (a) una posible recuperación de los saberes relevantes interpelando los errores ya perpetrados o todavía latentes, o (b) nuevas maneras de llevar a la práctica una disciplina con la que nos hemos malquistado muchas veces (la antropología, por cierto ) pero que sigue mereciendo su lugar en el mundo, tanto o mucho más que otros saberes que el mismo día de hoy siguen ocupando el podio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Reynoso•  20  Fractal Geometry, Anthropology, Morphometrics, Geometric MorphometricsL'indoeuropeo: una ricostruzione verosimile?Save to LibraryDownloadby Silvia Biselli•  2  Comparative Methods, Indoeuropean StudiesRedes colaborativas en educación de adultos en Brasil y en Europa. Perspectivas comparativasSave to LibraryDownloadby Rodrigo  Matos de Souza•  4  Adult Education, Comparative Methods, Comparative Analysis, Educação de Jovens e AdultosΗ 'Λογική' της Συγκριτικής Πολιτικής Ανάλυσης, Εισαγωγικό Δοκίμιο ['The Logic of Comparative Politics, An Introductory Essay]Save to LibraryDownloadby Gerassimos  Moschonas•  35  Political Sociology, Comparative Politics, Social Research Methods and Methodology, Social SciencesКресин А.В. Становление теоретических оснований сравнительно-правовых исследований во второй половине XVIII – первой трети XIX в.: монография / Kresin O. Formation of the comparative legal studies theoretical foundations in the second half of xviii — the first third of xix centuries: MonographВ книге на основе переосмысления известных и введения в научный оборот многих неизвестных источников впервые комплексно рассмотрены предпосылки, контекст появления и генезис теоретических оснований сравнительно-правовых исследований, а... moreВ книге на основе переосмысления известных и введения в научный оборот многихнеизвестных источников впервые комплексно рассмотрены предпосылки, контекстпоявления и генезис теоретических оснований сравнительно-правовых исследований, атакже их ранней институционализации. Среди предпосылок становления теоретическихоснований сравнительно-правовых исследований автор выделил формирование предметаи объектов юридических наук. То, что из предмета правоведения к началу XIX в. исчезлоестественное право как собственно право, а позитивное право стало рассматриватьсякак самодостаточное, впервые придало смысл сравнительно-правовым исследованиям, аопределение национальных правопорядков как единицы правового развития дало этимисследованиям цель – познание и совершенствование национального права. Предпосылкойстановления теоретических оснований сравнительно-правовых исследований стало иразвитие сравнительного подхода в науках о человеке, но в контексте данного исследованияоно взято в «снятом» виде: двойная идентичность сравнительного знания как основыразвития наук и одновременно основания формирования в их пределах сравнительныхдисциплин, а также накопление критической массы синкретического политико-экономико-историко-правового знания в рамках всеобщей истории, камералистики и сравнительногогосударствоведения (сравнительной статистики).Автор доказывает, что в связи с выделением и одновременно интеграцией юридическойнауки во второй половине XVIII – начале XIX в. произошли дифференциация упомянутогосинкретического знания и формирование учения о сравнении в праве, его целях, роли какосновы общего учения о праве и возможности выделения сравнительно-правовых научныхдисциплин. Результатом осмысления сравнительно-правового знания стало формированиев указанный период компаративистской научной картины мира – учения о национальномправе, его своеобразных и всеобщих элементах, взаимодействии национальных правопорядков,имманентности и процессуальности всеобщего, характеристиках особенного в правовомразвитии. Такая картина мира, в свою очередь, стала основанием для классификацииправопорядков и формирования правовой карты мира.Для научных работников, преподавателей юридических факультетов, аспирантов, всех,кто интересуется историей юридических наук. Книга представляет собой перевод украинскогоиздания 2017 г.Save to LibraryDownloadby Олексій  Кресін•  19  Comparative Law, History of Science, Legal History, Legal TheoryComparative Case Studies: An Innovative ApproachWhat is a case study and what is it good for? In this article, we argue for a new approach—the comparative case study approach—that attends simultaneously to macro, meso, and micro dimensions of case-based research. The approach engages... moreWhat is a case study and what is it good for? In this article, we argue for a new approach—the comparative case study approach—that attends simultaneously to macro, meso, and micro dimensions of case-based research. The approach engages two logics of comparison: first, the more common compare and contrast; and second, a 'tracing across' sites or scales. As we explicate our approach, we also contrast it to traditional case study research. We contend that new approaches are necessitated by conceptual shifts in the social sciences, specifically in relation to culture, context, space, place, and comparison itself. We propose that comparative case studies should attend to three axes: horizontal, vertical, and transversal comparison. We conclude by arguing that this revision has the potential to strengthen and enhance case study research in Comparative and International Education, clarifying the unique contributions of qualitative research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lesley  Bartlett and +1Frances Vavrus•  4  Qualitative methodology, Comparative & International Education, Comparative Methods, Qualitative Research MethodsIn Conversation with Andre BeteilleIn conversation with Andre Beteille: Surendra MunshiSave to LibraryDownloadby Surendra  Munshi•  5  Research Methodology, Social and Cultural Anthropology, Comparative Methods, Indian SociologyE. Coffacci de Lima & L. Córdoba (eds.), Os outros dos outros: relações de alteridade na etnologia sudamericana. UFPR, Curitiba, 2011 (complete book)El libro presenta una selección de trabajos de especialistas brasileños, franceses y argentinos que promueve el debate sobre las formas relacionales de construcción de la alteridad en la etnología sudamericana, tanto en distintos momentos... moreEl libro presenta una selección de trabajos de especialistas brasileños, franceses y argentinos que promueve el debate sobre las formas relacionales de construcción de la alteridad en la etnología sudamericana, tanto en distintos momentos históricos como en diversos ámbitos geográficos (Amazonía, Chaco, Andes,  Guyanas). Los trabajos procuran trascender lo que generalmente se entiende por ‘relaciones de alteridad’ o ‘relaciones interétnicas’ sin hacer tanto hincapié en los vínculos entre los diferentes grupos indígenas y los representantes externos del contacto (el Estado, misioneros, militares, exploradores, antropólogos, ONG’s), sino más bien, y fundamentalmente, analizando la trama de relaciones, conexiones y transformaciones recíprocas entre los distintos grupos indígenas y asimismo en el etnoconocimiento antropológico derivado de tales interacciones. En este sentido, el libro busca romper la clásica imagen de grandes bloques estáticos (‘indios’ y ‘blancos’) centrándose en cambio en los procesos concretos de construcción de relaciones entre los distintos grupos étnicos.Save to LibraryDownloadby Edilene  Coffaci de Lima and +1Lorena Córdoba•  183  Cultural History, Ethnohistory, Cultural Studies, Social Theory“Van ´Gods vijand´ tot nationaal icoon: De verbeelding van Redbad en andere ´heidense helden´ in vergelijkend perspectief” (De Vrije Fries 100 (2020) 102-119)Considering his bad reputation in the medieval sources, the fact that the Frisian king Redbad (d. 719) is currently celebrated as a national hero in Frisian and Dutch novels, movies and metal music should be considered extraordinary. How... moreConsidering his bad reputation in the medieval sources, the fact that the Frisian king Redbad (d. 719) is currently celebrated as a national hero in Frisian and Dutch novels, movies and metal music should be considered extraordinary. How can we explain this miraculous transformation from ‘God’s enemy’ to national icon? In this contribution, the consecutive ideological reinterpretations of the king – or his turbulent Nachleben – will be assessed in broad lines. Special attention will be paid to the pagan character of Redbad, and to the complex reception history of his ‘failed baptism’. I will argue that the major shift in the modern image of Redbad was caused by the advent of secular national discourses in the nineteenth century, in which pre-Christian heathenism became equated with national authenticity. This development is subsequently further clarified through comparison with other ‘pagan heroes’, from the troublesome saga hero Tróndur on the Faroe Islands to the chieftain Hatuey in Cuba. Taken together, the many faces of Redbad provide us with a good impression of the refined ways in which the past is ‘recycled’ in the present.Save to LibraryDownloadby Simon Halink•  12  Medievalism, Nationalism, Heroes, Cultural NationalismDialectology as Dialectic: Interpreting Phula VariationUndertaking a broadscale experiment in theory and praxis, this book demonstrates grounds for insisting on a more integrational approach to dialectology while simultaneously demonstrating grounds for defining the hidden Phula languages of... moreUndertaking a broadscale experiment in theory and praxis, this book demonstrates grounds for insisting on a more integrational approach to dialectology while simultaneously demonstrating grounds for defining the hidden Phula languages of the Sino-Vietnam borderlands. The modern languages and their ancestral lineage are defined dialectically, through dynamic syntheses of correlative perspectives. [pdf includes Preface, TOC and Chapter 1]Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamin  Pelkey•  58  Philology, Languages, Anthropological Linguistics, Indigenous StudiesBook Review: Philippe Borgeaud, Aux origines de l’histoire des religions. Paris: Seuil, 2004Save to LibraryDownloadby Renée KOCH PIETTRE•  9  Ancient Egyptian Religion, Comparative Religion, Ancient Mediterranean Religions, History of ReligionsComparative studies and the South American Gran ChacoThis article reviews the historical and present prospects of ethnohistorical and ethnographic work in the South American Gran Chaco. Geographically the Chaco is a semi-arid central South American plain, some one million square kilometers... moreThis article reviews the historical and present prospects of ethnohistorical and ethnographic work in the South American Gran Chaco. Geographically the Chaco is a semi-arid central South American plain, some one million square kilometers in size, encompassing portions of northern Argentina, eastern Bolivia, and western Paraguay. Average rainfall oscillates around 800 mm/yr, with the peripheries being wetter and the central Chaco drier. Some 250,000 indigenous people belonging to more than twenty ethnic groups live in the Chaco. Traditional ethno-linguistic categorization classifies them into six main linguistic groups: Mataco-maká (Wichí-Mataco, Chorote, Nivaclé-Chulupí, Maká), Guaycurú (Toba, Toba-Pilagá, Pilagá, Mocoví, Mbayá-Caduveo), Lule-Vilela (Chunupí), Lengua-Maskoi (Lengua,  Sanapaná, Angaité, Enenlhet), Zamuco (Chamacoco-Ishir, Ayoreo) and Tupí-Guaraní (Ava-Chiriguano, Chané, Tapiete, Isoseño-Guaraní, and Guaraní Occidental). The last group is the largest, including nearly 100,000 people, of whom the majority live in Bolivia. Unlike their Amazonian and Andean counterparts, Chaco indigenous peoples have yet to establish transnational, pan-indigenous representative bodies of their own. The present position of Chaco scholars is in many ways isomorphic to that of Chaco indigenous peoples, as Chaco anthropology has not established itself as an internationally recognized field of endeavor.  Nevertheless, recent scholarship in the region is currently producing an original synthesis of many of the long-standing concerns of Andeanist and Amazonianist scholarship, respectively.  A case can also be made for a new direction for research, based upon intriguing anthropological and historical parallels between the North American Great Plains and the South American Gran Chaco. The very indefinition of Chaco scholarship may also be its principal strength, and the past and present directions of Chaco research both draw upon and make a persuasive case for returning to comparative and area studies approaches in anthropology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Diego Villar and +1Isabelle Combès•  97  History, Cultural History, Ethnohistory, Cultural StudiesComparing Logical Paradoxes through the Method of Sublation: Hui Shi, Zeno and the "Flying Arrow Problem"This article addresses some basic methodological problems in the field of transcultural post-comparative studies of ancient logic by comparing the famous flying arrow paradox of Hui Shi (370-c. 310 BCE) with an apparently similar paradox... moreThis article addresses some basic methodological problems in the field of transcultural post-comparative studies of ancient logic by comparing the famous flying arrow paradox of Hui Shi (370-c. 310 BCE) with an apparently similar paradox attributed to Zeno of Elea (495-430 BCE). The article proceeds from a general introduction to the basic framework of semantically determined classical Chinese logic, to an illumination of Hui Shi's specific contributions to the field, and finally to a preliminary explanation that emerges from a contrastive analysis of Zeno's and Hui Shi's respective views on the problem of motion and stasis as manifested in their corresponding paradoxes. The contrastive analysis, based on an exposition of some basic problems in the field of transcultural methodology and a description of the so-called sublation method, points to the importance of considering different paradigms and frames of reference in identifying differences between apparently similar theses.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jana Rosker•  20  Logic, Chinese Philosophy, Comparative Philosophy, Research Methods and MethodologyThere's no escaping phylogeneticsThe comparative method depends crucially on the phylogenetic tree of the languages under comparison, but in many linguistic families, including Indo-European, the true tree is unknown. To circumvent this issue, frequency heuristics have... moreThe comparative method depends crucially on the phylogenetic tree of the languages under comparison, but in many linguistic families, including Indo-European, the true tree is unknown. To circumvent this issue, frequency heuristics have been devised to enable comparative reconstruction over consensus trees. These heuristics come in different forms, but they are all based on the same methodological principle: if the number of homologous elements (e.g., lexical cognates) in the daughter languages meets a minimum threshold (canonically three), their ancestor is reconstructed to the root of the tree. In this paper, I demonstrate that frequency heuristics are not only unreliable but fundamentally misguided. As an alternative, I present a Bayesian method for inferring ancestral states that accounts for phylogenetic uncertainty by estimating the probability of a character state over a set of resolved phylogenetic trees.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Goldstein•  12  Languages and Linguistics, Historical Linguistics, Phylogenetics, Ancient Indo-European LanguagesComparison and the Study of Religions of Late Antiquity (2012)Save to LibraryDownloadby David Frankfurter•  3  Comparative Methods, Jonathan Z. Smith, ComparisonGENERATING SIMPLIFIED STATISTICAL POPULATION PROFILES TO INFORM LOCAL GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND PLANNINGThe paper reports on both methodological and substantive findings. It presents a method for generating simplified representations for regional urban populations, their geographical sub-populations and communities. the method generates... moreThe paper reports on both methodological and substantive findings. It presents a method for generating simplified representations for regional urban populations, their geographical sub-populations and communities. the method generates greatly simplified high-resolution socio-economic profiles of populated geographical areas from complex large census data sets.Save to LibraryDownloadby Trevor Wren BSc MA MPhil PhD MBA•  738  Information Systems, Management, Marketing, SociologyTriangulating Area Studies, Not Just Methods: How Cross-Regional Comparison Aids Qualitative and Mixed-Method ResearchThis chapter, published in Comparative Area Studies: Methodological Rationales and Cross-Regional Applications (Oxford University Press, 2018), defines cross-regional contextualized comparison and distinguishes it from other, more typical... moreThis chapter, published in Comparative Area Studies: Methodological Rationales and Cross-Regional Applications (Oxford University Press, 2018), defines cross-regional contextualized comparison and distinguishes it from other, more typical modes of small-N qualitative analysis, namely area-bound comparative inquiry (where cases are chosen on the basis of one's primary area of expertise) and macro-comparative inquiry (which follows the quasi-experimental logic of Mills' methods as a basis for case selection and inferring causal generalizations). The trade-offs between these approaches are not purely methodological (between building on one's accumulated area expertise and leveraging the comparative method). They have a practical dimension as well, since one strategy is more likely to result in sustained engagement with one's primary area studies community while the other is more likely to result in hypotheses dealing with big questions of interest to social science disciplines.  While these trade-offs can never be overcome, the strategy of contextualized comparison of cases drawn from different regions offers a distinctive means for triangulating insights. This approach still depends on first acquiring area expertise, but it permits extrapolating from one's experience in doing research in one's primary area to navigate the complexities and contending historical records and sources when delving into other cases that hold promise in terms of facilitating some analytic leverage.  This type of context-sensitive approach cannot produce elegant law-like generalizations, but it can produce middle-range theoretical arguments whereby causal mechanisms and linkages can be identified as relevant across some population of cases, but with the actual causal stories of each case requiring careful attention to context conditions followed by the adjustment of concepts, measures, and observations (in the manner anticipated in Locke and Thelen's classic 1995 argument about contextualized comparison in the study of labor politics).  This approach is thus at once more expansive than area-bound small-N studies (e.g. a study of three countries in the Middle East or in Eastern Europe), and more context-sensitive than traditional Millean macro-comparative approaches (e.g. Skocpol's 1979 classic study of social revolutions, which explicitly deploys Mills' methods). The value of cross-regional contextualized comparison can be understood in both analytic and dialogical terms: (i) there is the expanded probability of hitting upon theoretical insights and equivalences based on expanding one's familiarity to new cases with their own complexities; and (ii) given the requirement of deep engagement with the relevant area studies communities for each of the case studies, there is the possibility of providing bridges between separate area studies researchers tackling similar problems as well as between area studies communities and social science disciplines writ large.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rudra Sil•  20  Area Studies, Comparative Politics, Qualitative methodology, Qualitative MethodsLa comparaison fait-elle la discipline? Intitulés comparatistes et dynamique des chaires au Collège de France (Open access: http://books.openedition.org/lesbelleslettres/174?lang=fr)Des années 1820 au début du XXIe siècle, les propositions d’intitulés comparatistes ont jalonné l’histoire du Collège de France. Cette constance et la variété des domaines scientifiques dont ils relèvent les distinguent déjà au sein de... moreDes années 1820 au début du XXIe siècle, les propositions d’intitulés comparatistes ont jalonné l’histoire du Collège de France. Cette constance et la variété des domaines scientifiques dont ils relèvent les distinguent déjà au sein de l’ensemble des intitulés proposés au cours de la même période. Mais les intitulés comparatistes se singularisent surtout par le fait qu’ils spécifient non seulement l’objet mais aussi la méthode de la chaire projetée : au « quoi ? », ils adjoignent le « comment ? ». Au vu du lien souvent revendiqué entre comparatisme et modernité scientifique, ils se prêtent donc particulièrement bien à une enquête sur le moteur de la création des chaires au Collège de France et sur le poids de la méthode dans ce processus. Réciproquement, un recensement systématique des propositions d’intitulés comparatistes, acceptées comme rejetées, permet de préciser la pénétration de la méthode comparative au Collège de France ainsi que les domaines où elle apparaît ou non comme légitime. Loin de postuler l’existence d’une pratique comparative homogène et spécifique au Collège de France, ce chapitre envisage l’institution comme un creuset permettant d’appréhender les formulations et propositions comparatistes dans leur diversité et leurs incessantes recompositions. L’approche à la fois quantitative (statistique) et qualitative (fondée sur l’étude des argumentaires et débats entourant ces intitulés) de ce corpus pluridisciplinaire offre des perspectives inédites sur le développement du comparatisme en France.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pascale Rabault-Feuerhahn•  17  Epistemology, History of Ideas, Comparative History, History of ScienceArea Studies, Comparative Politics, and the Role of Cross-Regional Small-N ComparisonArea‐focused scholarship of all varieties – ranging from case studies intended to explore general hypotheses to context‐bound narratives generated through ethnography or discourse analysis – have long contributed to the richness and... moreArea‐focused scholarship of all varieties – ranging from case studies intended to explore  general hypotheses to context‐bound narratives generated through ethnography or discourse  analysis – have long contributed to the richness and vibrancy of the field of comparative  politics, sometimes generating enduring concepts, sometimes reinforcing or challenging  prevailing general theories. The question for comparativists is not whether area studies ought  to have a place in the field of comparative politics but rather how  to generate productive conversations between area studies and scholars working on general  theories and models. Such conversations are not going to be jump‐started by simply noting the  value of area‐focused scholarship. This is precisely why I have focused on the mediating role of  cross‐regional comparative research in highlighting the connections between different clusters  of area‐focused scholarship and general theoretical and methodological debates in the field.  Unfortunately, the dynamics of methodological debates are such that those partial to  small‐N comparison have typically preferred to go closer to the ground, seeking the cover of  area‐specific expertise rather than reaffirming the analytic leverage small‐N analysis is designed  to provide. In light of this state of affairs, it is worth applauding the handful of studies that have  boldly embarked on cross‐regional comparison, recognizing the limitations of this approach but  standing fast in highlighting its distinctive payoffs. But, the broader argument for reviving cross‐ regional small‐N comparison has to do with its distinctive dialogical benefits – that is, the role it  can play in "horizontally" connecting diverse area-studies research communities and "vertically" bridging the gulf that continues to separate area‐studies communities from generalists in comparative politics. If this latter gulf is not reduced, area specialists could find  themselves further misunderstood and marginalized, and the field of comparative politics will  be impoverished as a result.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rudra Sil•  23  Area Studies, Comparative Politics, Historical Sociology, Social Research Methods and MethodologyEnvisioning Eden: Mobilizing imaginaries in tourism and beyondAs tourism service standards become more homogeneous, travel destinations worldwide are conforming yet still trying to maintain, or even increase, their distinctiveness. Based on more than two years of fieldwork in Yogyakarta, Indonesia... moreAs tourism service standards become more homogeneous, travel destinations worldwide are conforming yet still trying to maintain, or even increase, their distinctiveness. Based on more than two years of fieldwork in Yogyakarta, Indonesia and Arusha, Tanzania, this book offers an in-depth investigation of the local-to-global dynamics of contemporary tourism. Each destination offers examples that illustrate how tour guide narratives and practices are informed by widely circulating imaginaries of the past as well as personal fantasies of the future. The author reveals how local guides in Yogyakarta and Arusha insure the continued reproduction and localization of tourism fantasies, but they also use the privileged contact with foreigners to foment their own imaginations of "paradise on earth." The book focuses on the human mechanics of globalization, cosmopolitan mobility, and the role of the imaginary in giving people’s lives meaning, demonstrating essential ways in which ethnographies of tourism and travel contribute to ongoing theoretical and methodological debates about the local–global nexus.Save to LibraryDownloadby Noel B.  Salazar•  44  Critical Theory, History, European History, GeographyHuangkeng and Early Northern Min 黃坑話與早期閩北語Based on materials collected during recent field trips, this paper presents a detailed description of the variety spoken in Huangkeng Town, Jianyang County, Fujian Province, China. Although the synchronic phonology of Huangkeng is quite... moreBased on materials collected during recent field trips, this paper presents a detailed description of the variety spoken in Huangkeng Town, Jianyang County, Fujian Province, China. Although the synchronic phonology of Huangkeng is quite different from other Northern Min varieties, this study shows that the genetic position of Huangkeng belongs to Northern Min. After a thorough comparison between Huangkeng and Proto-Northern-Min and a careful distinction between innovations and retentions, this study argues that Huangkeng is the earliest descendant of Northern Min, and bears a sister relationship with Proto-Northern-Min (PNM), ancestor of all other known Northern Minvarieties. Then, the reconstruction of Early-Northern-Min (ENM), which is the ancestor of both Huangkeng and PNM, and a comparison between the phonological structure of ENM with that of PNM are presented. After a brief discussion on the nature of Huangkeng vocabulary, this paper concludes with a discussion on how the case study of Huangkeng shed some new lights on the methodological issue in Chinese dialectology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruiqing Shen•  2  Comparative Methods, Min DialectsA more global urban studies, besides empirical variationAn expanded set of sites, a more differentiated set of references and linguistic diversification have been discussed as needed changes in urban studies. The critiques of the limitations of urban studies, in terms of both the scholarship... moreAn expanded set of sites, a more differentiated set of references and linguistic diversification have been discussed as needed changes in urban studies. The critiques of the limitations of urban studies, in terms of both the scholarship and the scholars, offer important and concrete responses to expanding the scope of the field. Yet this tremendous special issue on 'Comparative Methods for Global Urban Studies' with 10 papers cutting across a range of sites and topics is decidedly not only about empirical variation; this is an important distinction worth drawing more attention to. The creativity expressed in these papers comes at an auspicious time in urban studies where new routes for doing urban theory are needed to move past debates about singular versus plural epistemologies of the urban. As a kind of research that demands more translation, exchange and collaboration, perhaps comparative urban research as a mode of theory-building can help to humble the chest-pounding, posturing, privilege of thinking and speaking the language of theory. The theoretical ambitions of these very different papers show how urban theory need not only be about better understanding urbanisation within the epistemological confines of late capitalism. Rather than reifying a shared grammar of urbanisation as a necessity to understand each other, they may entice scholars everywhere to develop a broader vocabulary and perhaps even learn another language.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julie Ren•  6  Comparative Urbanism, Global Studies, Urban Studies, Comparative MethodsThe Comparative Method in Practice: Case Selection and the Social Science of RevolutionFormalization of comparative case methodology has given the appearance of growing consensus and cross-disciplinary acceptance around a set of best practices. Yet how researchers actually use a method may differ widely from what... moreFormalization of comparative case methodology has given the appearance of growing consensus and cross-disciplinary acceptance around a set of best practices. Yet how researchers actually use a method may differ widely from what methodologists believe, which is the crux of institutionalization of a method. This study examines whether comparative methodology has, in fact, institutionalized within the social sciences using evidence from the entire corpus of comparative studies of revolution published from 1970 to 2009. Content analysis of methods of case selection within the revolution subfield reveals a wide diversity of strategies with only modest methodological awareness by practitioners, a lack of consensus among which case selection strategies to use, and little convergence over time. Thus, the comparative method has not yet institutionalized in its practice. Methodological practice has implications for the coverage of cases of revolution and what is substantively known about the phenomenon.Save to LibraryDownloadby Colin J Beck•  8  Comparative Politics, Historical Sociology, Revolutions, Comparative MethodsThick Instrumentalism and Comparative Constitutionalism: The Case of Gay RightsThe paper intervenes in the burgeoning field of comparative constitutionalism. Adopting comparative constitutional research on gay rights as a case study, it addresses the scholarship that comparative constitutionalists are producing,... moreThe paper intervenes in the burgeoning field of comparative constitutionalism. Adopting comparative constitutional research on gay rights as a case study, it addresses the scholarship that comparative constitutionalists are producing, including the methodology and underlying assumptions about constitutions. It criticizes the mainstream comparative work on gay rights for its methodological thinness. Such research views constitutions as rule-based, privileging the judgments of constitutional courts over the practice of constitutionalism in other sites of governance. Foreign examples are pressed into service to bring about change in a designated place. From the vantage of an activist or advocate, the comparative constitutional work on gay rights that is prevalent now may prove misleading. Undue emphasis on courts as the site of constitutional change directs efforts to litigation away from other forms of activism. The literature also exaggerates the transferability of constitutional precedents by abstracting them from their discursive and cultural context. Moreover, the consistent selection of a handful of success stories from pioneering jurisdictions distracts from the potential lessons waiting in the failures, where reform efforts have foundered. From a scholar's perspective, the work is also unsatisfactory. Comparative constitutionalists, by accepting the current framing of debates, are failing to imagine transformations beyond same-sex marriage litigation and, consequently, falling short of their distinctive power as scholars. The paper argues for thick instrumentalism as a mode of comparative constitutional scholarship. Thick instrumentalism combines commitment to a justice project for gay rights with a richer, more discursive and culturally sensitive understanding of the multiple sites in which constitutional rights are respected - and infringed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Leckey•  10  Law, Constitutional Law, Comparative Constitutional Law, Comparative MethodsLa religión de los libios de Canarias y África: problemas y consideraciones para su estudio comparadoComparative historical studies of the ancient religious rituals and manifestations of the Libyan-Berber populations and those of the first Canary Island populations have been carried out in depth. The studies work from the premise that... moreComparative historical studies of the ancient religious rituals and manifestations of the Libyan-Berber populations and those of the first Canary Island populations have been carried out in depth. The studies work from the premise that both the Libyan and the Canarians populations share the same roots. However, the basic framework within which to apply a comparative methdology have barely been outlined with mere hints to the procedures, problems and potential benefits of a better undesranding of the elements to be compared. The aim of this paper is to delve into these issues in order to attempt to clarify the methodological premises for a comparative analysis of the religious manifestations of both population, highlighting the main topics of the scientific debate with respect to he comparative method itself as of the last few years. We offer new conceptual and methdological tools provided by the comparative studies of the History of Religions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Josué Ramos-Martín•  5  History of Religions, Comparative Methods, Canary Islands, Libio-bereberesCP 4000. Método ComparadoPrograma de curso. Ciclo I-2022.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ronald Sáenz•  3  Comparative Politics, Political Science, Comparative MethodsKonflikt o Spratlyho a Paracelské ostrovySave to LibraryDownloadby Kamil  Beneš•  24  International Relations, Conflict, Malaysia, Energy SecurityImplications of Micro-Scale Comparisons for the Study of Entangled Religious Traditions: Reflecting on the Comparative Method in the Study of the Dynamics of Christian-Muslim Relations at a Shared Sacred SiteThis article applies the comparative methodology proposed by Oliver Freiberger to a case study on Christian-Muslim relations at a shared sacred site in Antakya (formerly Antioch), which belongs to Hatay, the southernmost city of Turkey.... moreThis article applies the comparative methodology proposed by Oliver Freiberger to a case study on Christian-Muslim relations at a shared sacred site in Antakya (formerly Antioch), which belongs to Hatay, the southernmost city of Turkey. Specifically, this case study deals with the veneration of the Muslim saint Habib-i Neccar in the center of the old city of Antakya. Besides discussing some general questions pertaining to the methodical procedure used in the case study, this contribution demonstrates that Freiberger's comparative methodology is useful and that its application leads to new insights. In refining the methodical toolkit for comparative research, this article will attempt to enhance the proposed model by introducing a set of analytical concepts. To further illuminate the findings of the case study, 'mimesis' and 'fractal dynamics' will be introduced as analytical concepts suitable for studying the dynamics of interreligious relations and for enhancing the methodical design for future comparative research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jens Kreinath•  18  Comparative Religion, History of Religion, Mimesis, Cult of SaintsANTHROPOLOGY'S MYTHOLOGY The Huxley Memorial Lecture 1971 by George Peter MurdockThis is a very illuminating paper by one of the founders of the application of quantitative method and Statistics in socio-cultural anthropology.In this paper G.P.Murdock expressed his skepticism on the theoretical contributions of... moreThis is a very illuminating paper by one of the founders of the application of quantitative method and Statistics in socio-cultural anthropology.In this paper G.P.Murdock expressed his skepticism on the theoretical contributions of Anthropology.He placed his admiration on ethnography which he considered as the hallmark of Anthropology.Although, nothing was said on the application of Statistics it was implied that theories on society and culture is yet to catch up with what really happens on the ground by the acts of real individuals in real time and space.Save to LibraryDownloadby Abhijit  Guha•  8  Anthropology, Social and Cultural Anthropology, Cross-Cultural Studies, Comparative MethodsCinq essais sur l'architecture. Études sur la conception de projets de l'Atelier Zô, Scarpa, Le Corbusier, Pei (2002)240 pp. L'Harmattan – Définir, à partir des traces graphiques d'un projet, les actions de conception et les motivations de l'architecte à les entreprendre, voilà l'objectif de l'enquête. Quel est le rôle de la représentation dans le... more240 pp. L'Harmattan – Définir, à partir des traces graphiques d'un projet, les actions de conception et les motivations de l'architecte à les entreprendre, voilà l'objectif de l'enquête. Quel est le rôle de la représentation dans le développement de l'idée architecturale ? Comment se transforme-t-elle tout au long du projet ? En fonction de quoi l'architecte décide-t-il d'altérer ou de maintenir une représentation ? Telles sont les questions que ces essais tentent de résoudre en s'appuyant sur les concepts de représentation, d'inférence, de modèle et d'échelle, et en portant une attention particulière au rôle que jouent les schèmes dans la conception architecturale.Les conclusions sont tirées d'études de cas qui portent sur des projets de l'Atelier Zô, Scarpa, Le Corbusier, Pei.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dominique Raynaud•  7  Architecture, Design Research, Architectural History, Comparative MethodsArchitectures comparées. Essai sur la dynamique des formes (1998)164 pp. Éditions Parenthèses – "Toute forme a été imaginée avant d'être construite". Cette formule classique, qui met en relief l'un des traits essentiels de la pratique architecturale, soulève plusieurs questions. D'où viennent les... more164 pp. Éditions Parenthèses – "Toute forme a été imaginée avant d'être construite". Cette formule classique, qui met en relief l'un des traits essentiels de la pratique architecturale, soulève plusieurs questions. D'où viennent les images-mères du projet? Sont-elles encore identifiables une fois construites? Existe-t-il des procédés réguliers dans l'imagination des formes architecturales? Cette enquête tente de résoudre ces problèmes par la reconnaissance de schèmes dynamiques de l'imagination. Si le processus de conception architecturale altère les images-mères au points que certains ont pu identifier une "non figurativité" de l'architecture, les schèmes dynamiques sont perceptibles de la première esquisse à l'édifice construit. La démonstration, au croisement de l'anthropologie des représentations et de l'architecturologie, adopte le principe d'une analyse comparée. Etayée par une sélection d'édifices couvrant toute l'extension historique et géographique, elle offre tout à la fois une lecture cohérente des premiers moments du projet architectural et une réflexion de portée générale sur l'imagination des formes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dominique Raynaud•  7  Architecture, Design Research, Architectural History, Comparative MethodsChapter 7: Comparative high performance sport modelsThis chapter discusses different models that have been used to compare high performance sport (HPS) systems. It includes case studies covering the USSR and Post-Soviet Russian HPS systems, the Canadian HPS system, and the US HPS system.... moreThis chapter discusses different models that have been used to compare high performance sport (HPS) systems. It includes case studies covering the USSR and Post-Soviet Russian HPS systems, the Canadian HPS system, and the US HPS system. The chapter includes a comparison of these case studies.Learning Outcomes- Identify various approaches to comparing high performance sport systems (HPS) - Define strengths and limitations of various approaches to comparing HPS - Profile HPS systems in the former USSR and current Russia, USA, and Canada- Discuss the challenges the above countries face and their international sporting performance in the futureSave to Libraryby Winston To•  7  Sports Management, Comparative Methods, Physical Education, SportAlternatives to the partial Mantel test in the study of environmental factors shaping human morphological variationSave to LibraryDownloadby Paula Gonzalez•  10  Paleoanthropology, Biological Anthropology, Human Evolution, BiomechanicsNextLast »Related TopicsPhylogeneticsFollowFollowingState Formation and Sovereignty in Middle EastFollowFollowingClass (Sociology)FollowFollowingAgency StructureFollowFollowingBrazilian Politics (Political Science)FollowFollowingBehavioural EcologyFollowFollowingPower (social)FollowFollowingHeritage ValueFollowFollowingHerpetologyFollowFollowingThird SpaceFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023