Overview and FAQ - Purdue University Copyright Office
Purdue University
Purdue University Logo
                University Copyright Office
            
Menu
Overview and FAQ
Copyright is all about balancing the rights of authors with the rights of the public
      to use the work without seeking permission or paying royalties.
      Under copyright, authors have the right to control the use of their work subject to
      exceptions permitted under the law. If the use exceeds such exceptions, then
      infringing on someone's copyright can result in the infringer paying money damages
      (civil liability) and/or going to prison (criminal liability). To understand your
      rights and responsibilities under the copyright law, review the basics and the
      exceptions.
    
The Basics
What is copyright?
    ​
    
 
    Copyright is a federal law. It is
                Title 17 of the United States Code.
  
    ​
    
 
    Copyright is the right of authors to control the use of their work for a
                limited period of time.
  
    ​
    
 
    A copyrighted work must be an original work of authorship which is fixed
                in a tangible medium of expression.
  
Where did copyright law originate?
              Copyright law originated with the United States Constitution. In Article I,
              Section 8, the Constitution states that "Congress shall have the power . . .
              to promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited
              Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective
              Writings and Discoveries".
            
    ​
    
 
    The U.S. Copyright Office
                of the Library of Congress is responsible for overseeing the
                administrative functions of the copyright law.
  
    ​
    
 
    Congress enacts copyright laws.
  
    ​
    
 
    The Federal courts interpret and enforce the copyright law.
  
Why is copyright law important?
Copyright law provides exclusive rights to authors in order to protect their
            work but these rights are for a limited period of time. The Framers of the
            U.S. Constitution wanted to incentivize authors to create new works which
            would promote learning but also balance the authors rights with the rights of
            the public to use the works freely under certain conditions.
When does a work become copyrighted?
Under the U.S. Copyright Act, a work is protected if it is original and when
            it is fixed in a tangible medium of expression. After March 1, 1989 works no
            longer require a copyright notice (© or the word copyright, the author's name
            and the year of publication). However, it is wise to affix a copyright notice
            to works so that the owner of the copyright can be easily identified.
            Copyright registration is also no longer required although the copyright owner
            has the option to register their work with the
            U.S. Copyright Office.
What can be copyrighted?
The following categories of works are copyrightable:
    ​
    
 
    Literary, musical and dramatic works
  
    ​
    
 
    Pantomimes and choreographic works
  
    ​
    
 
    Pictorial, graphic and sculptural works
  
    ​
    
 
    Sound recordings
  
    ​
    
 
    Computer programs
  
    ​
    
 
    Architectural works
  
What cannot be copyrighted?
The following categories of works are copyrightable:
    ​
    
 
    Ideas, procedures, methods, systems, and processes are not copyrightable
                  (e.g., the list of ingredients for recipes are not copyrightable, but the
                  recipes' instructions are protected).
  
    ​
    
 
    Titles, names, short phrases, and slogans are not copyrightable (e.g.,
                  Nike's slogan "Just do it" is not copyrightable, but a slogan can receive
                  trademark protection).
  
    ​
    
 
    Facts, news, and research are not copyrightable (e.g., a standard
                  calendar).
  
    ​
    
 
    Works in the public domain are not copyrightable. As of 2023,
                  this includes works published in the United States prior to 1928. The public domain also comprises works
                  created by United States government employees that are a result of what
                  they were hired to do.
  
    ​
    
 
    Works that are not fixed in a tangible medium of expression (e.g.,
                  extemporaneous speeches that are not written or recorded).
  
What are the copyright holder's exclusive rights?
The owner of a copyright has six exclusive rights:
    ​
    
 
    To reproduce the work.
  
    ​
    
 
    To distribute the work.
  
    ​
    
 
    To create derivative works.
  
    ​
    
 
    To publicly perform the work.
  
    ​
    
 
    To publicly display the work.
  
    ​
    
 
    To publicly perform sound recordings by means of a digital audio
                transmission.
  
How long does copyright last?
              Works created on or after January 1, 1978 are protected for a term of the
              life of the author plus 70 years. If it is a corporate author then the
              protection is for the shorter of 95 years from publication or 120 years from
              creation. Works created and published prior to 1978 may be protected for
              different lengths of time.
            
              For example, author James Michener died in 1997. His works, such as
              Alaska, Texas, and The Eagle and The Raven, which were all
              created after 1978, are protected under the copyright law until 2067.
            
              For more information regarding the length of a copyright, please see the
              copyright duration chart.
            
What is the public domain?
              The public domain consists of all works that never had copyright protection
              and works that no longer have copyright protection. As of 2023,
              this includes works published in the United States prior to 1928.
            
              The public domain also includes most works created by the United States
              government. For example, census reports, which are compiled and published by
              the United States government are in the public domain.
            
All works in the public domain are free for the public to use.
Definitions
        The U.S. Copyright Act
        provides definitions of many terms used in the law. The following are some
        examples of the definitions
      
creation
  A work is created when is it fixed in a copy or phonorecord for the first
            time; where a work is prepared over a period of time, the portion that has
            been fixed at any particular time constitutes the work as of that time, and
            where the work has been prepared in different versions, each version
            constitutes a separate work.
derivitive works
  A derivative work is a work based upon one or more preexisting works, such as
            a translation, musical arrangement, dramatization, fictionalization, motion
            picture version, sound recording, art reproduction, abridgment, condensation,
            or any other form in which a work may be recast, transformed, or adapted. A
            work consists of editorial revision, annotation, elaboration, or other
            modifications, which, as a whole, represent an original work of authorship, is
            a derivative work.
display
              To display a work means to show a copy of it, either directly or by means of
              a film slide, television image, or any other device or process or, in the
              case of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, to show individual
              images nonsequentially.
            
To perform or display a work publicly means:
    ​
    
 
    to perform or display it in a place open to the public or at any place
                where a substantial number of persons outside of a normal circle of family
                and its social acquaintances is gathered; or
  
    ​
    
 
    to transmit or otherwise communicate a performance or display of the work
                to a place specified by clause (1) or to the public by means of any device
                or process, whether the members of the public are capable of receiving the
                performance or display receive it in the same place or in separate places
                and at the same time or at different times.
  
fixed
  A work is fixed in a tangible medium of expression when its embodiment in a
            copy or phonorecord, by or under the authority of the author, is sufficiently
            permanent or stable to permit it to be perceived, reproduced, or otherwise
            communicated for a period of more than transitory duration.
perform
              To perform a work means to recite, render, play, dance, or act it, either
              directly or by means of any device or process, or, in the case of a motion
              picture or other audiovisual work, to show images in any sequence or to make
              the sounds accompanying it audible.
            
To perform or display a work publicly means:
    ​
    
 
    to perform or display it in a place open to the public or at any place
                where a substantial number of persons outside of a normal circle of family
                and its social acquaintances is gathered; or
  
    ​
    
 
    to transmit or otherwise communicate a performance or display of the work
                to a place specified by clause (1) or to the public by means of any device
                or process, whether the members of the public are capable of receiving the
                performance or display it in the same place or in separate places and at
                the same time or at different times.
  
publication
  Publication is the distribution of copies or phonorecords of a work to the
            public by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or
            lending. The offering to distribute copies or phonorecords to a group of
            persons for purposes of further distribution, public performance, or public
            display, constitutes publication. A public performance or display of a work
            does not of itself constitute publication.
Purdue University Logo
Disclaimer
                    The information presented on this website is for informational purposes only, 
                    and nothing on this website should be construed or relied upon as legal advice.
        
                    Accessibility Statement
                
                    Purdue recognizes that all students, faculty and staff should have
                    full access to all aspects of the university's digital
                    properties. To request accommodations or special assistance due to a
                    disability, please contact us.
                
Address
                    Purdue University
                    
                    University Copyright Office
                    
                    504 Mitch Daniels Blvd.
                    
                    West Lafayette, IN 47907-2058
                
Contact Us
                        copyright@purdue.edu
                    
(765) 496-3864
Follow Us
Purdue Libraries on Twitter
Twitter icon
Purdue Libraries on Facebook
Facebook icon
Purdue Libraries on Instagram
Instagram icon
Purdue Libraries on YouTube
YouTube icon
                © 2023 Purdue Univeristy
            
                    Equal Access/Equal Opportunity university
                
                    Integrity Statement
                
                    Copyright Complaints
                