Latgalian language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
2Classification
3Geographic distribution
4Official status
5Dialects
6Alphabet
7Language examples
Toggle Language examples subsection
7.1Poem of Armands Kūceņš
7.2Lord's Prayer
7.3Phrasebook
7.4Common words in Latgalian and Lithuanian, different from Latvian
8See also
9References
10External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Latgalian language
45 languages
AfrikaansالعربيةتۆرکجهБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)CatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიКомиLatgaļuLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиمصرىNederlands日本語PolskiPortuguêsРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSuomiSvenskaТатарча / tatarçaTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng ViệtVõroWinarayŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Eastern Baltic language
For the language spoken by the ancient Latgalian tribe, see Latvian language § History.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Latgalian language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Latgalianlatgalīšu volūdaNative toLatvia, Russia[citation needed]RegionLatgalia, Selonia, Vidzeme, Siberia, Bashkiriya[citation needed]EthnicityLatvians - Latgalians (modern)Native speakers200,000 (2009)[1]Language familyIndo-European
Balto-SlavicBalticEastern BalticLatvian?LatgalianEarly formsProto-Indo-European
Proto-Baltic
Writing systemLatin script (Latgalian alphabet)[2]Language codesISO 639-3ltgGlottologeast2282Linguasphere54-AAB-ad LatgaleUse of Latgalian in everyday communication in 2011 by municipalities of LatviaLatgalian is classified as Vulnerable by the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in DangerThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Latgalian (latgalīšu volūda, Latvian: latgaliešu valoda) is an Eastern Baltic language or a dialect of Latvian, mostly spoken in Latgale, the eastern part of Latvia.[3] Its standardized form is recognized and protected as a "historical language of Latvia" (vēsturiska valoda Latvijā) under national law.[4] The 2011 Latvian census established that 8.8% of Latvia's inhabitants, or 164,500 people, speak Latgalian daily. 97,600 of them live in Latgale, 29,400 in Riga and 14,400 in the  Riga Planning Region.[5]
History[edit]
Distribution of the Baltic tribes, circa AD 1200 (boundaries are approximate).
Originally Latgalians were a tribe living in modern Vidzeme and Latgale. It is thought that they spoke the Latvian language, which later spread through the rest of modern Latvia, absorbing features of the Old Curonian, Semigallian, Selonian and Livonian languages. The Latgale area became politically separated during the Polish–Swedish wars, remaining part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth as the Inflanty Voivodeship, while the rest of the Latvians lived in lands dominated by Baltic German nobility. Both centuries of separate development and the influence of different prestige languages likely contributed to the development of modern Latgalian as distinct from the language spoken in Vidzeme and other parts of Latvia.
The modern Latgalian literary tradition started to develop in the 18th century from vernaculars spoken by Latvians in the eastern part of Latvia. The first surviving book published in Latgalian is "Evangelia toto anno" (Gospels for the whole year) in 1753. The first systems of orthography were borrowed from Polish and used Antiqua letters. It was very different from the German-influenced orthography, usually written in Blackletter or Gothic script, used for the Latvian language in the rest of Latvia. Many Latgalian books in the late 18th and early 19th century were authored by Jesuit priests, who came from various European countries to Latgale as the north-eastern outpost of the Roman Catholic religion; their writings included religious literature, calendars, and poetry.
Publishing books in the Latgalian language along with the Lithuanian was forbidden from 1865 to 1904. The ban on using Latin letters in this part of the Russian Empire followed immediately after the January Uprising, where insurgents in Poland, Lithuania, and Latgale had challenged the czarist rule. During the ban, only a limited number of smuggled Catholic religious texts and some hand-written literature were available, e.g. calendars written by the self-educated peasant Andryvs Jūrdžys.
After the repeal of the ban in 1904, there was a quick rebirth of the Latgalian literary tradition; first newspapers, textbooks, and grammar appeared. In 1918 Latgale became part of the newly created Latvian state. From 1920 to 1934 the two literary traditions of Latvians developed in parallel. A notable achievement during this period was the original translation of the New Testament into Latgalian by the priest and scholar Aloizijs Broks, published in Aglona in 1933. After the coup staged by Kārlis Ulmanis in 1934, the subject of the Latgalian dialect was removed from the school curriculum and was invalidated for use in state institutions; this was as part of an effort to standardize Latvian language usage. Latgalian survived as a spoken language in Soviet Latvia (1940–1991) while printed literature in Latgalian virtually ceased between 1959 and 1989. In emigration, some Latgalian intellectuals continued to publish books and studies of the Latgalian language, most notably Mikeļs Bukšs, see the bibliography.
Since the restoration of Latvian independence, there has been a noticeable increase in interest in the Latgalian language and cultural heritage. It is taught as an optional subject in some universities; in Rēzekne the Publishing House of Latgalian Culture Centre (Latgales kultūras centra izdevniecība) led by Jānis Elksnis, prints both old and new books in Latgalian.
In 1992, Juris Cibuļs together with Lidija Leikuma published one of the first Latgalian Alphabet books after the restoration of the language.
In the 21st century, the Latgalian language has become more visible in Latvia's cultural life. Apart from its preservation movements, Latgalian can be more often heard in different interviews on the national TV channels, and there are modern rock groups such as Borowa MC and Dabasu Durovys singing in Latgalian who have had moderate success also throughout the country. Today, Latgalian is also found in written form on public signs, such as some street names (e.g. in Kārsava) and shop signs, evidences of growing use in the linguistic landscape.[6]
In November 2021, the first state-approved road sign in Latvian and Latgalian was placed on the border of Balvi Municipality, with others being gradually installed in other locations in Latgale. Similarly, signs with Livonian are also being placed.[7][8]
Classification[edit]
Latgalian is a member of the Eastern Baltic branch of the Baltic group of languages, in the family of Indo-European languages. The branch also includes the standard form of Latvian and other Baltic languages like Samogitian and Lithuanian. Latgalian is a moderately inflected language; the number of verb and noun forms is characteristic of many other Baltic and Slavic languages (see Inflection in Baltic Languages).
Geographic distribution[edit]
Use of Latgalian in everyday communication in Latvia (2011)
Latgalian is spoken by about 150,000 people,[9] mainly in Latgale, Latvia; there are small Latgalian-speaking communities in Siberia, Russia.
Official status[edit]
Between 1920 and 1934 Latgalian was used in local government and education in Latgale. Now Latgalian is not used as an official language anywhere in Latvia. It is formally protected by the Latvian Language Law stating that "The Latvian State ensures the preservation, protection, and development of the Latgalian literary language as a historical variant of the Latvian language" (§3.4).[4] The law regards Latgalian and Standard Literary Latvian as two equal variants of the same Latvian language. Even though such legal status allows usage of Latgalian in state affairs and education spheres, it still happens quite rarely.
There is a state-supported orthography commission of the Latgalian language. Whether the Latgalian language is a separate language or a dialect of Latvian has been a matter of heated debate throughout the 20th century. Proponents of Latgalian such as linguists Antons Breidaks and Lidija Leikuma have suggested Latgalian has the characteristics of an independent language.
Dialects[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Direction signs in Latgalian and Latvian, Salnava Parish, Ludza Municipality
Latgalian speakers can be classified into three main groups – Northern, Central, and Southern. These three groups of local accents are entirely mutually intelligible and characterized only by minor changes in vowels, diphthongs, and some inflexion endings. The regional accents of central Latgale (such as those spoken in the towns and rural municipalities of Juosmuiža, Vuorkova, Vydsmuiža, Viļāni, Sakstygols, Ūzulaine, Makašāni, Drycāni, Gaigalova, Bierži, Tiļža, and Nautrāni) form the phonetical basis of the modern standard Latgalian language. The literature of the 18th century was more influenced by the Southern accents of Latgalian.
Alphabet[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
See also: Latgalian phonology
The Latgalian language uses an alphabet with 35 letters. Its orthography is similar to Latvian orthography, but has two additional letters: ⟨y⟩ represents [ɨ]), an allophone of /i/ which is absent in standard Latvian. The letter ⟨ō⟩ survives from the pre-1957 Latvian orthography, but is being used less during modern times in Latgalian and is being replaced by two letters ⟨uo⟩ that represent the same sound.[10]
Alphabet
Upper case
Lower case
Pronunciation
A
a
/a/
Ā
ā
/aː/
B
b
/b/
C
c
/t͡s/
Č
č
/t͡ʃ/
D
d
/d/
E
e
/ɛ/
Ē
ē
/ɛː/
F
f
/f/
G
g
/ɡ/
Ģ
ģ
/ɡʲ/
H
h
/x/
I
i
/i/
Y
y
/ɨ/
Ī
ī
/iː/
J
j
/j/
K
k
/k/
Ķ
ķ
/kʲ/
L
l
/l/
Ļ
ļ
/lʲ/
M
m
/m/
N
n
/n/
Ņ
ņ
/nʲ/
O
o
/ɔ/
Ō
ō
/ɔː/
P
p
/p/
R
r
/r/
S
s
/s/
Š
š
/ʃ/
T
t
/t/
U
u
/u/
Ū
ū
/uː/
V
v
/v/
Z
z
/z/
Ž
ž
/ʒ/
The IETF language tags have registered subtags for the 1929 orthography (ltg-ltg1929) and the 2007 orthography (ltg-ltg2007).[11]
Language examples[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Poem of Armands Kūceņš[edit]
Tik skrytuļam ruodīs: iz vītys jis grīžās,
A brauciejam breinums, kai tuoli ceļš aizvess,
Tai vuorpsteite cīši pret sprāduoju paušās,
Jei naatteik – vacei gi dzejis gols zvaigznēs.
Pruots naguorbej ramu, juos lepneibu grūžoj,
Vys jamās pa sovam ļauds pasauli puormeit,
Bet nak jau sevkuram vīns kuorsynoj myužu
I ramaņu jumtus līk īguodu kuormim.
Na vysim tai sadar kai kuošam ar speini,
Sirds narymst i nabeidz par sātmalim tēmēt,
A pruots rauga skaitejs pa rokstaudža zeimem,
Kai riedeits, kod saulei vēļ vaiņuku jēme.
Lord's Prayer[edit]
Tāvs myusu, kas esi debesīs,
svēteits lai tūp Tovs vōrds.
Lai atnōk Tova vaļsteiba.
Tova vaļa lai nūteik, kai debesīs, 
tai ari vērs zemes.
Myusu ikdīneiškū maizi dūd mums šudiņ.
Un atlaid mums myusu porōdus,
kai ari mes atlaižam sovim porōdnīkim.
Un naīved myusu kārdynōšonā, 
bet izglōb myusus nu ļauna Amen.
Phrasebook[edit]
Phrases
Latgalian
Latvian
Meaning
Vasals!
Sveiks!
Hi! (literally, "Hale and Hearty!", "Sveiks" is more common as "Hi" in Latvian but has a different meaning)
Loba dīna!
Labdien!
Hello, Good day!
Muns vuords Eugeņs.
Mans vārds ir Eugeņs.
My name is Eugene.
Šudiņ breineiga dīna!
Šodien ir brīnišķīga diena!
Today is a wonderful/beautiful day!
Vīns, div, treis, niu tu breivs!
Viens, divi, trīs, nu tu esi brīvs!
One, two, three, now you are free! (Counting game for children)
Asu aizjimts itamā šaļtī!
Esmu aizņemts šobrīd!
I am busy at the moment!
Es tevi mīļoju!
Es tevi mīlu!
I love you!
Asu nu Latgolys.
Esmu no Latgales.
I am from Latgalia.
As īšu iz sātu.
Es iešu mājās.
I will go home. (Note, "sēta" in Latvian means the courtyard to a homestead, also homestead; so a more rural/agrarian sense of "home" in the Latgalian than in the Latvian "mājās", which is more evocative of a house.)
Maņ pateik vuiceitīs (muoceitīs).
Man patīk mācīties.
I like to learn. (Note, this marked difference between Latgalian and Latvian is quite typical. The set of examples here are quite similar because they relate to basic concepts.)
Common words in Latgalian and Lithuanian, different from Latvian[edit]
Note the impact of foreign influences on Latvian (German in Kurzeme and Vidzeme, Polish and Lithuanian in Latgale).
English
Latvian
Latgalian
Lithuanian
Comments
around
apkārt
apleik
aplink
aplinkus in Latvian means "indirectly"
always
vienmēr
vysod
visad(a)
every day
ikdienas
kasdīnys
kasdienis
he
viņš/šis
jis
jis
šis in Lithuanian means "this"
urgent
steidzams
skubeigs
skubus
skubīgs has the same meaning in Latvian, but is rarely used
to interrogate/to ask
taujāt/izjautāt
klaust
klausti
klausīties in Latvian is "to listen"; klau! means "hey!"; klaušināt means to ask several people
girl/maid
meita/meitene
mārga
mergina/merga
meita in Latvian is used more often as "daughter" while meitene means "girl" exclusively
kerchief
lakatiņš
skareņa
skarelė
dress/frock
kleita
sukne
suknelė
kleita in Latvian is adapted from the German das Kleid, any native term has been lost. Latgalian and Lithuanian – comp. Polish suknia.
top/apical
galotne/virsotne
viersyune
viršūnė
pillar/column
stabs
stulps
stulpas
stulpiņi (diminutive, plural for "stulps") in Latvian is preserved as "leggings"
to read
lasīt
skaiteit
skaityti
skaitīt in Latvian means to count, noskaitīt is to recite
to come
nākt
atīt
ateiti
atiet in Latvian means to depart (the root word "iet" means "to go")
row, range, or line
rinda
aiļa
eilė
aile in Latvian means row in very narrow sense – it refers to space between two lines
to sit down
apsēsties
atsasēst
atsisėsti
to answer
atbildēt
atsaceit
atsakyti
atsacīt in Latvian means to reject, refuse (and to do it quickly and sharply), atsisakyti can be used with this meaning in Lithuanian too
to torture
mocīt
komuot
kamuoti
to die (about animals)
nosprāgt
nūgaist
nugaišti
to squeeze
maidzīt
maidzeit
maigyti
to catch a cold
saaukstēties
puorsaļt
peršalti
pārsalt in Latvian means to freeze overly (near death)
cold
auksts
solts
šaltis
auksts is more common in Latvian for "cold" than "salts" which is a chilling cold
mistake
kļūda
klaida
klaida
page
lappuse
puslopa
puslapis
compound word, in Latvian the order is "leaf"+"side", reverse of the order in Latgalian and Lithuanian
down/downward
lejup
zamyn
žemyn
zemu in Latvian means "low"
and/also
un
i
ir
un and arī are common usage in Latvian, "i" is archaic found mainly in folk songs and poetry
to settle in
iekārtoties
īsataiseit
įsitaisyti/įsikurti
family
ģimene
saime
šeima
"ģimene" is used in Latvian for the core family, saime denotes extended family and household, for example, saimnieks, saimniece are master and mistress, respectively, of the household while in Lithuanian it is giminė which is used for extended family
homeland
tēvija
tāvaine
tėvynė
east
austrumi
reiti
rytai
"rīti" is less common, poetic form in Latvian
west
rietumi
vokori
vakarai
"vakari" is less common, poetic form in Latvian
to stand up
piecelties
atsastuot
atsistoti
to sore
sūrstēt
pierkšēt
perštėti
scissors
šķēres
zirklis
žirklės
šķēres in Latvian is adapted from the German die Schere, dzirkles refers to shears
to forgive
piedot
atlaist
atleisti
owl
pūce
palāda
pelėda
toad
krupis
rupucs
rupūžė
fear
bailes
baime
baimė
last name/surname
uzvārds
pavuorde
pavardė
smith
kalējs
kaļvs
kalvis
to clatter
rībēt/skrabēt
brazdēt
brazdėti
to perish
iet bojā
propuļt
prapulti
on horseback
jāšus
raitu
raitas
inside
iekšā
vydā
viduj
vidū in Latvian means "in the middle"
to notice
ievērot
ītiemēt
įsidėmėti
a little
mazliet
drupeiti
truputį
to bore/to become boring
apnikt
atbuost/atsabuost
atsibosti
to undress
noģērbties
nūsaviļkt
nusivilkti
swamp
dumbrājs/muklājs
liuņs
liūnas
kidney
niere
eiksts
inkstas
niere in Latvian is adapted from German and has replaced the native īkstis
to poke
bakstīt
badeit
badyti
to hover
plivināties apkārt
laksteit
lakstyti
to bathe
peldēties
mauduotīs
maudytis
clover
āboliņš
duobuls
dobilas
first of all
vispirms
pyrma
(visų) pirma/pirmiausiai
suddenly
pēkšņi
ūmai
ūmai
to stretch (oneself)
staipīties/gorīties
rūzeitīs
rąžytis
to detect
uziet/konstatēt
aptikt
aptikti
to snatch
pakampt
sačupt
sučiupti
"pagauti" in Lithuanian means to catch
to grope
taustīties
čupinētīs
čiupinėtis
church holiday
baznīcas svētki
atlaidys
atlaidai
variable (dates)
mainīgi (datumi)
cylojamuos (dīnys)
kilnojamos (dienos)
remotely
attālu
atostai
atstu/atokiai
to make faces
vaikstīties
šaipeitīs
vaipytis
to shell
lobīt
gaļdeit
gliaudyti
to thresh (by beating)
kult (dauzot)
bluokšt
blokšti
to break (about glass)
plīst (par stiklu)
dyuzt
dūžti
See also[edit]
Latgalian Wikipedia
Samogitian language
References[edit]
^ Latgalian at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ Latgalian language at Ethnologue (21st ed., 2018) 
^ Druviete, Ina (22 July 2001). "Recenzija par pētījumu "Valodas loma reģiona attīstībā"" [Review of the Study "The Role of Language in the Development of the Region"] (in Latvian). Politika.lv. Retrieved 20 August 2013.
^ a b "Official Language Law". likumi.lv. Retrieved 15 August 2013.
^ "Tautas skaitīšana: Latgalē trešā daļa iedzīvotāju ikdienā lieto latgaliešu valodu" [Census: In Latgale, a Third of the Population Uses the Latgalian Language on a Daily Basis]. LSM.lv (in Latvian). 6 July 2012.
^ Lazdiņa, Sanita (2013). "A Transition from Spontaneity to Planning? Economic Values and Educational Policies in the Process of Revitalizing the Regional Language of Latgalian (Latvia)". Current Issues in Language Planning. 14 (3–04): 382–402. doi:10.1080/14664208.2013.840949. S2CID 144103270.
^ "Balvu novadā ceļazīmes arī latgaliešu rakstu valodā" [Balvi Municipality gets road signs with written Latgalian]. Lsm.lv (in Latvian). 24 November 2021. Retrieved 19 July 2023.
^ Ozola-Balode, Zanda (27 January 2023). "Talsu novada nosaukums tagad arī lībiešu valodā; šādi uzraksti būs vismaz 14 piekrastes ciemos" [The sign of the name of Talsi Municipality now also in Livonian; similar signs will be placed in 44 Livonian Coast villages]. Lsm.lv (in Latvian). Retrieved 19 July 2023.
^ UNESCO Interactive Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger (Select "Latvia" in the drop-down Country or area menu and then "Latgalian language" from the drop-down suggestion list in the Language field.).
^ lakuga.lv, Portals (6 September 2018). "UO i Ō. Kurs pareizuoks?". lakuga.lv. Retrieved 23 November 2022.
^ "Language Subtag Registry" (text). IANA. 8 August 2022. Retrieved 9 November 2022.
External links[edit]
 Latgalian  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Latgalian language.
For a list of words relating to Latgalian language, see the Latgalian language category of words in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Latvian–Latgalian Dictionary
Sanita Lazdiņa, Heiko F. Marten: Latgalian in Latvia: A Continuous Struggle for Political Recognition. In: Journal on Ethnopolitics and Minority Issues in Europe
The Two Literary Traditions of Latvians
Some facts about Latgalian language
The Grammar of Latgalian Language (in Latvian, PDF document)
vteLanguages of LatviaOfficial language
Latvian
Regional languages
Latgalian
Livonian
Minority languages
Belarusian
Estonian
German
Lithuanian
Polish
Romani
Russian
Ukrainian
Yiddish
Sign languages
Latvian Sign Language
Russian Sign Language
See Also: Language policy in Latvia
vteBaltic languagesReconstructed
Proto-Balto-Slavic
Proto-Baltic
Western Baltic
(Western) Galindian
Old Prussian
Sudovian (Yotvingian)
Skalvian (possibly separate Western Baltic)
Eastern Baltic
Curonian? (sometimes considered Western Baltic)
Latgalian (sometimes considered a Latvian dialect)
Latvian
Kursenieki
Lithuanian
Aukštaitian
Samogitian [possibly a separate language]
Selonian
Semigallian
Dnieper Baltic
(Eastern) Galindian
Italics indicate extinct languages
Authority control: National 
Germany
Latvia
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Latgalian_language&oldid=1171027942"
Categories: East Baltic languagesLanguages of LatviaLanguages of RussiaVulnerable languagesHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 25Language articles citing Ethnologue 21CS1 Latvian-language sources (lv)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from August 2021Articles needing additional references from April 2008All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2023Articles containing Latvian-language textArticles needing additional references from November 2022Commons category link is on WikidataArticles with GND identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles citing ISO change requests
 This page was last edited on 18 August 2023, at 16:05 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width