Dementia Care Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Dementia Care12,629 FollowersRecent papers in Dementia CareTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleMusic, Spirituality, and MemoryThis paper looks at using music as a spiritual practice for people living with dementia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dan Lunney•  9  Practical theology, Dementia, Spirituality, PersonhoodEffects of Music on Agitation in Dementia: A Meta-AnalysisAgitation is a common problem in patients suffering from dementia and encompasses a variety of behaviors such as repetitive acts, restlessness, wandering, and aggressive behaviors. Agitation reduces the probability of positive social... moreAgitation is a common problem in patients suffering from dementia and encompasses a variety of behaviors such as repetitive acts, restlessness, wandering, and aggressive behaviors. Agitation reduces the probability of positive social interaction and increases the psychological and organizational burden. While medical interventions are common, there is need for complementary or alternative methods. Music intervention has been brought forward as a promising method to reduce agitation in dementia. While interventions, target groups and research designs differ, there has so far not been a systematic overview assessing the effect of music intervention for agitation in patients with dementia. A meta-analysis was conducted in order to investigate possible effects of music interventions. Twelve studies met inclusion criteria. Music intervention had a medium overall effect on agitation in dementia, suggesting robust clinical relevance. While the moderate number of studies does not allow for further differentiation between sub-types of music intervention, the subgroup comparisons indicated promising pathways for future systematic reviews. This meta-analysis is the first systematic and quantitative overview supporting clinically and statistically robust effects of music intervention on agitation in dementia. The analysis provides further arguments for this non-pharmacological approach and highlights needs for future systematic research reviews for the investigation of intervention types.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefan  Sütterlin•  6  Music, Dementia, Music Therapy, Dementia CareThe Feasibility of a National Dementia Register for IrelandBackground: There is an acknowledged lack of information about dementia in Ireland, including very poor coding of dementia across all care settings. Yet with dementia prevalence set to increase as our population ages, there is an urgent... moreBackground: There is an acknowledged lack of information about dementia in Ireland, including very poor coding of dementia across all care settings. Yet with dementia prevalence set to increase as our population ages, there is an urgent need to gather valid epidemiological data that provides accurate and reliable national estimates of current and future dementia prevalence, and facilitates the development of robust and effective dementia health and social policy (Cahill, O’Shea, & Pierce, 2012). This study, commissioned as part of the Alzheimer Society of Ireland evidence-based policy series, examined the feasibility of developing a national dementia register for Ireland. Methods: A rapid review of national and international patient registry literature was undertaken to identify registry functions, underlying design and process models, and best-practice guidelines for their development. A ‘landscape analysis’ identified the legal, ethical, clinical, technology, and financial issues relevant to the creation of an Irish dementia register. Following ethical approval, we conducted two focus groups with people with dementia and twenty-one expert stakeholder interviews with clinicians and with representatives from research, health, and social care organisations in Ireland and the UK, existing Irish patient registries, and international dementia registries. Discussions followed an agreed structure, were audio-recorded, transcribed, and analysed using inductive content analysis. Results: Common themes emerged from the literature and stakeholder discussions with regard to: registry function; benefits and risks; data collection; data management; governance; legislation; barriers and facilitators; Irish complexities; and best-practice. Conclusions: The results provide an evidence-base on which to progress the issue of improved recording structures for dementia in Ireland. Given the strategic approach the government is now taking to address research and information systems as part of the 2014 National Dementia Strategy, it is opportune to examine the potential for a framework to collect information in a reliable, accurate, valid, complete, and timely way.Save to LibraryDownloadby Louise Hopper•  4  Dementia, Public Health, Dementia Care, Alzheimer DementiaA poetry group for cognitively impaired older adults: A brief reportThe purpose of this brief note is to present a discussion of the first two sessions of a poetry group conducted with moderately to severely cognitively impaired adults in a nursing home. Exercises and techniques used with this population... moreThe purpose of this brief note is to present a discussion of the first two sessions of a poetry group conducted with moderately to severely cognitively impaired adults in a nursing home. Exercises and techniques used with this population are discussed. Poetry groups such as this may provide joy those who suffer, a chance to re-experience memories, to connect to others, and the creation of moments of increased value and meaning.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rich Furman•  32  Psychology, Group Therapy, Nursing, GeriatricsThe three dimensions of caregiver grief in dementia caregiving: Validity and utility of the subscales of the Marwit-Meuser Caregiver Grief InventoryBackground: The experience of grief in family caregivers as they provide care for persons with dementia is often overlooked. The Marwit‐Meuser Caregiver Grief Inventory (MM‐CGI) is one among the few scales that capture such experiences.... moreBackground: The experience of grief in family caregivers as they provide care forpersons with dementia is often overlooked. The Marwit‐Meuser Caregiver GriefInventory (MM‐CGI) is one among the few scales that capture such experiences. Ina recent study, MM‐CGI was found to contain three subscales identifying dimensionsof loss in caregivers—Personal‐Sacrifice Burden (PSB), Heartfelt Sadness, Longing, andWorry (HSLW), and Felt Isolation (FI). We aimed to evaluate the validity and utility ofthese dimensions in a multiethnic Asian population.Methods: Family caregivers (n = 394) completed MM‐CGI and scales assessingcaregiver burden, depression, and gains. Internal consistency reliability was examinedusing Cronbach α; test‐retest reliability using intraclass correlation coefficient; andconstruct validity using Pearson correlation coefficient. The utility of the MM‐CGIdimensions was evaluated by comparing caregivers with high subscale scores acrossdementia stages and caregiving relationship.Results: The three dimensions of MM‐CGI exhibited adequate internal consistency,test‐retest reliability, construct validity, and known‐group validity. PSB correlatedmost strongly with caregiver burden (r = 0.78); HSLW with caregiver depression (r =0.75); and FI with caregiver burden and caregiver depression (r = 0.60, respectively).Caregivers with high total grief scores tended to experience most difficulty withHSLW (90.8%), followed by PSB (75.4%) and FI (46.2%). The three dimensions alsoincreased across the dementia stages, with FI higher in mild dementia, PSB higher inmoderate dementia, and HSLW higher in severe dementia. Spousal caregivers experiencedmost difficulty in HSLW, whereas children caregivers experienced similar levelsof difficulty across the dimensions.Conclusions: The three dimensions of MM‐CGI captured distinct aspects of caregivergrief in a multiethnic Asian population and would enable more individualizedassessments and interventions for caregiver grief.Save to LibraryDownloadby Shiou-Liang  Wee•  4  Dementia, Grief (Psychology), Dementia Care, Grief and LossAntropologia das demências: uma revisão a partir da Doença de AlzheimerO artigo dialoga com etnografias e estudos qualitativos sobre o fenômeno das demências. Dada a centralidade que o termo doença de Alzheimer angariou nesse campo, retoma sua história, as contínuas e atuais controvérsias a respeito da... moreO artigo dialoga com etnografias e estudos qualitativos sobre o fenômeno das demências. Dada a centralidade que otermo doença de Alzheimer angariou nesse campo, retoma sua história, as contínuas e atuais controvérsias a respeitoda doença, bem como os tratamentos e modos de cuidar, estudar e se relacionar com pessoas com demência. O campodas demências tem questionado conceitos e abordagens metodológicas das ciências sociais, e transformado modos decuidar, tratar e medicar a velhice ao redor do mundo, contudo ainda é pouco conhecido no Brasil e são raras as revisõesde literatura que sistematizem o que foi produzido e apontem agendas de pesquisa contemporâneas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cíntia Engel•  5  Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Dementia Care, EnvelhecimentoTitle: Infantilisation in Care, Community & Cognitive DisabilityFull thesis is available through the Cork Open Access Archive, here: https://cora.ucc.ie/handle/10468/12426 * Although the term ‘infantilisation’ is used across disciplines and in different contexts, its meaning is frequently unclear.... moreFull thesis is available through the Cork Open Access Archive, here: https://cora.ucc.ie/handle/10468/12426 *Although the term ‘infantilisation’ is used across disciplines and in different contexts, its meaning is frequently unclear. Where adults are infantilized, are they treated -as- children or -like- children, or merely in some child-appropriate ways? Are they thought of as child-like, or as defective adults, or as children in the bodies of adults? Is infantilisation distinct from paternalism, or only a severe example of it? In this thesis I develop a concept and theory of infantilisation which addresses these questions. Both concept and theory are grounded in empirical studies on the infantilisation of adults in elderly care settings and of physically and cognitively disabled adults (both in care and in the community). I argue that infantilisation is conceptually distinct from paternalism, that it is an inapt conceptualization of any adult, and that the treatments which stem from it are harmful. I conclude that the infantilisation of adults – cognitively disabled or not – is both a social injustice and a conceptual failure.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ruadhán J . Flynn•  20  Disability Studies, Ableism and Ability Studies, Care Ethics, Feminist ethics (Philosophy)The Effect that Living in a Nursing Home has on Married Couples: A Qualitative StudyOne aspect of the data, one common theme, which should not surprise, but does, is this: every single one of these people is incredibly miserable here. My conclusions in this paper will be drawn not just from the interviews I’ve done with... moreOne aspect of the data, one common theme, which should not surprise, but does, is this: every single one of these people is incredibly miserable here.  My conclusions in this paper will be drawn not just from the interviews I’ve done with the married residents, but also with the other residents I’ve come to know and have written about in my field notes.  Even the nicest, most forbearing, patient, and unfailingly polite among them, JB, summed up the entire experience of being here as “disgusting.”  And it’s not the quality of the care, or the staff, or the cleanliness of the building, or the amount of light they receive through the windows, or the food, but rather the very fact that they are not at home, that they are institutionalized, and that they never, ever forget that.  The institution repeatedly reminds them of their traumatic experiences, when they were helpless and terrified. Some suffer the pain of watching a spouse deteriorate and die, and all of them seem to feel desolation, isolation,  and loneliness, even though they are constantly surrounded by often very noisy people and their machine.  But even so, these experiences are not at the heart of the matter.  What is the heart of the matter?  What is the single most unbearable feeling  universally shared by the people who live here?  I'm talking about the ones who still have their faculties, who have not gone over into the fog of Alzheimer’s (which is not to say that demented people are content, because they clearly are not, but they are not entirely conscious of their discontentment)?  The universal condition is frustration with their diminished autonomy.  Each one of them is struggling mightily to hold on to their self-determination and watching it slip, inexorably, away from them.  This is the problem.  This is what changes marriages.  This is how the institution affects marriages.  What is a marriage when the married persons no longer feel that they own themselves, that they have given themselves, their decisions, their minds, their bodies, their routines, over to a larger entity, a mostly benign entity to be sure, but an institution all the same, an institution that exists primarily to justify itself, and not to care for the spirit, body, and mind of each resident?What I am concluding here is that married couples bring their problems and patterns with them into the nursing home, and that marriage is often much more than simply a dyadic experience.  When a couple enters a “home,” their children almost inevitably get involved and shape their parents relationship as much as the aides and the nurses do.  The staff at SWVA make a concerted effort to protect the privacy of married couples, but the institutional environment and the regulations take a toll.  Considering the increasingly  long lives of the global population, and the strong possibility that more couples will end their lives in long-term care facilities, it would behoove us to consider whether or not we consider this an ethical and human way for our elders to spend their last years.  At the very least, nursing homes ought to dispense with their institutional elements to the greatest degree possible, and strive to create a more home-like environment that would offer the maximum privacy and dignity possible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kimberly  Latta•  11  Mental Health, Dementia, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Gender and SexualityPathways within dementia diagnosisIn this chapter, we foreground different dementia diagnostic pathways across three temporal phases of the process of diagnosis; from initial history taking in memory clinic assessment, to the disclosure and discussion of diagnosis.... moreIn this chapter, we foreground different dementia diagnostic pathways across three temporal phases of the process of diagnosis; from initial history taking in memory clinic assessment, to the disclosure and discussion of diagnosis. Therefore we are interested in, not only pathways to a diagnosis of dementia but rather the pathways and experiences within the diagnostic process, exploring the interactions that occur during this process. Specifically we focus on: first, conversational profiling and differential diagnosis during memory clinic assessment; second, interpreter-mediated dementia evaluations; and third disclosure and discussion of diagnosis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elizabeth  Peel•  4  Conversation Analysis, Dementia, Dementia Care, DiagnosisCommunicating  with Individuals with DementiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Kori D Novak•  3  Gerontology, Dementia Care, Alzheimer DementiaTo what extent does diagnosis matter? Dementia diagnosis, trouble interpretation and caregiving network dynamicsContemporary research into health treats diagnosis as a central step in illness management and trajectories. Most public health policies, especially in the case of Alzheimer’s disease, claim that the earlier a diagnosis is made, the... moreContemporary research into health treats diagnosis as a central step in illness management and trajectories. Most public health policies, especially in the case of Alzheimer’s disease, claim that the earlier a diagnosis is made, the better it is for patients and caregivers. Quantitative and qualitative analysis from our longitudinal interview study, conducted with 60 caregivers of persons diagnosed with dementia, shows that this usual model of diagnosis [symptoms → diagnosis → meaning and caregiving] should be nuanced. First, diagnosis does not follow increased symptoms, but occurs rather through a process involving the observability of patients’ troubles and their interpretation of said troubles as requiring medical assistance ‐the ‘trouble?observability?interpretation convergence.’ Second, diagnosis does not systematically trigger the mobilisation of a caregiving network: such mobilisation may follow the diagnosis, but it can also provoke it, temporarily prevent it, or have no immediate impact. These observations beg the question: To what extent does diagnosis matter? We conclude by questioning the centrality of diagnosis in the illness trajectories and its crucial role in the mobilisation of a caregiving network, that is often taken for granted, and propose to distinguish between ‘anticipation diagnosis’ and ‘emergency diagnosis’.Save to LibraryDownloadby Baptiste Brossard•  12  Sociology Of Deviance, Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Sociology of Mental Health & IllnessThe stigma of dementiaAim As the population ages, the problem of dementia increases and affects a growing number of people. People with mental illness are known to be stigmatised and this has been the subject of numerous studies. There have been contradictory... moreAimAs the population ages, the problem of dementia increases and affects a growing number of people. People with mental illness are known to be stigmatised and this has been the subject of numerous studies. There have been contradictory studies assessing the stigma attached to dementia, and the majority focus on stigma at a social level and the public perception of people with dementia. There have been a number of projects that included a study group of people with dementia. However, to date, this topic has not been discussed in Poland. Hence, the aim of this paper is to carry out a literature review addressing this issue.PerspectiveThe problem of stigma attached to dementia is particularly significant as it affects not only the subject, but also their family, friends and health professionals. As people with dementia develop cognitive impairment and lose their independence, stigmatisation leads to their social isolation, despite their need for care. Stigma has emotional, behavioural and social implications, including diminished self-esteem, a feeling of anxiety and the development of a sense of shame and a fear of the judgement of others. Family members also deal with the stigma, which manifests itself as embarrassment and anxiety and causes their circle of friends and acquaintances to decrease. Current studies show that professionals can also play a negative role in the process of labelling and stigmatisation of patients.ConclusionStigma is a serious and common problem in dementia. It seems necessary to target this issue in research and social discourse.Save to LibraryDownloadby Katarzyna M Lion•  17  Neuroscience, Neurology, Psychiatry, DementiaThe Impact of the Best Friends Approach for Dementia CareObjective Best Friends Approach for Dementia CareSave to LibraryDownloadby Samantha Glaab•  3  Dementia Care, Elder Caregiving, Dementia and AlzheimerFaith in Action: Hammondcare (UNSW Press, 2013)(Sydney: UNSW Press, 2013)An interpretive history of one of Australia's largest but least known Christian charities, from the 1930s depression to the present.Save to LibraryDownloadby Meredith  Lake•  8  History of Christianity, Welfare State, Australian History, History of Social WelfareDetecting the Dimensions of Loss and Grief in Family Caregivers of Persons with Dementia across the Dementia StagesSave to LibraryDownloadby Ivana Chan•  5  Geriatrics, Gerontology, Family Caregivers/Carers, Dementia CarePrivatisation of Aged Care for dementia clients -Role for Social WorkersThe complex environment of ageing, in particular individuals with dementia, as a social worker understanding their social needs, a greater understanding their culture, their diversity and social environments situations is required (Adams,... moreThe complex environment of ageing, in particular individuals with dementia, as a social worker understanding their social needs, a greater understanding their culture, their diversity and social environments situations is required (Adams, Dominelli & Payne, 2009). The aged care sector in Australia has been more increasingly dominated with neoliberal market base principles which have placed a prioritisation in cost reductions and profitable efficiencies, which have placed less demands in one sense in the private sector to employ social workers (Kendall & Reid, 2017). Australians are living longer including more years without debilitating disabilities, this lengthening of our life expectancy is imposing implications on the ageing, disability and health sectors (AIHW,2014). This significant rise of persons with dementia together with the demand for more aged care facilities has seen a surge in aged care provisions such as residential aged care or in-home care becoming privatised, and an increased demand for other allied health services including social work.  Challenges also faced include the justification of the Australian Federal Government privatising parts of the sector, which include aged care assessment teams, which fundamentally the social workers have worked well in (Broe, 2020). The challenges faced by the social worker in ageing and aged care are surmountable, in particular where capitalism weaves it way through aged care in terms of privatisation and cost benefit models.  The social worker in the aged sector, in particular providing person-centred care for people with dementia will need to engage and respect agency, clients structures and their physical and psychosocial environments (Cole, 2019).Save to LibraryDownloadby Gaye Cameron•  6  Allied Health Sciences, Dementia Care, Social Gerontology, Aged care, Dementia, DeliriumCare arrangements for persons with dementia: A review on formal care and its relevance to Indian contextIntroduction: Population ageing and increase in prevalence of dementia in developing countries like India is occurring rapidly and has emerged as a major public health challenge. Compared to developed countries, India has poorly developed... moreIntroduction: Population ageing and increase in prevalence of dementia in developing countries like India is occurring rapidly and has emerged as a major public health challenge. Compared to developed countries, India has poorly developed health and social care systems for chronic care in elderly. In this narrative review we summarize the literature on dementia care from India with specific focus on formal care services. Methods: We conducted a literature search in PubMed, google scholar, PsycINFO databases for relevant articles. We also collated information on existing services from national Alzheimer/dementia societies. Results: There is a sparsity of literature on dementia care in India. Dementia India Report, 2010 provides an estimate of existing formal care services in India which include day care, residential care, helplines, domiciliary care, support groups and memory clinics. Compared to the magnitude of estimated population with dementia in the country the existing resources are insufficient to meet the treatment gap. Conclusion: There is a great need as well as potential to improve dementia care services in India. There is a need to balance the research on novel treatments with care delivery as mandated in World Alzheimer's report 2016. This should include innovative research which is translatable to the cultural and financial situations in India.Save to LibraryDownloadby Suhas  Ganesha and +1Journal of Geriatric Care and Research (JGCR)•  4  Dementia, Health Care Management, India, Dementia CareQuand la personne âgée atteinte de démence est un être capable. Sociologie du soin dans les institutions de long séjour formées à la "Méthode Montessori adaptée" (avec Anne Jetzer et Alexandre Lambelet)Based on contemporary social theories, including the theories of care, this article sketches a sociology of care, the terrain of which is constituted by an ethnography conducted in five long-term care institutions that host elderly people... moreBased on contemporary social theories, including the theories of care, this article sketches a sociology of care, the terrain of which is constituted by an ethnography conducted in five long-term care institutions that host elderly people suffering from dementia. Driven by the ideal of autonomy, these institutions have adopted a psychogeriatric intervention method based on the Montessori method of education that promotes a new « form of coordination » in the care relationship. This form, « doing with », presupposes that the caregiver and the cared-for are active subjects of the relationship, which becomes symmetrical while the two partners in co-presence interact with more or less equal intensity. « Doing with » coexists with three other forms of « taking care », in which the acting of the caregiver and the acting of the person being cared for differ in intensity : « doing without », « making do » and « doing for ». Locating the « doing with » within these other forms of « taking care » will give us the opportunity to recompose the moral territory in which it stands and to consider the care relationship according to the degrees of autonomy it distributes and arranges.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabienne Malbois and +1Alexandre Lambelet•  4  Autonomy, Dementia Care, Quality of Life and Elderly People, Chronic illness and long-term careCaracteristicas generales de la fisiopatologia de la demencia en adultosEl trastorno de la demencia se caracteriza por su progresiva disminución y alteración de la cognición del individuo, deteriorando por lo menos un dominio cognoscitivo de orden superior como la capacidad de aprendizaje, la memoria, el... moreEl trastorno de la demencia se caracteriza por su progresiva disminución y alteración de la cognición del individuo, deteriorando por lo menos un dominio cognoscitivo de orden superior como la capacidad de aprendizaje, la memoria, el lenguaje, las funciones ejecutivas, la atención compleja, la percepción, la motricidad y coordinación motora y la cognición social. Por esta razón, el déficit funcional, de racionalización y ejecución que manifiesta el individuo puede ser considerable, provocando incluso, la interferencia con la calidad de vida del paciente, perjudicando su cotidianidad y alterando su independencia. (Larson, 2019) A grandes rasgos, la mayoría de las demencias se presentan como consecuencia de una enfermedad neurodegenerativa que producen síndromes clínicos ampliamente superpuestos, aunque manifiestan algunas características distintivas. De esta manera, la forma más común de demencia en adultos mayores (60-80% de los casos) corresponde a la Enfermedad de Alzheimer, una patología que afecta principalmente a personas mayores de 65 años. Por esta razón, a medida que la población general envejece, la frecuencia de la enfermedad de Alzheimer y de otras demencias tardías, se incrementa considerablemente en todo el mundo. (Wolk & Dickerson, 2018) Por esta razón, se exalta la necesidad de los médicos y de los prestantes de servicio de salud, a estar permanentemente equipados para evaluar el deterioro cognitivo del individuo y tener la capacidad de identificar el grado de alteración funcional del paciente. Para así, evitar los diagnósticos poco acertados y los tratamientos menos efectivos, desde un deterioro cognitivo leve, un estadio clínico intermedio entre la cognición normal y la demencia que puede ocurrir como parte del envejecimiento normal, o como un precursor de la demencia; hasta la aparición y evolución de una enfermedad neurodegenerativa. (Press & Alexander, 2019) En este orden de ideas, los trastornos neurodegenerativos más comunes, además de la enfermedad de Alzheimer, son la demencia con cuerpos de Lewy, la demencia frontotemporal y la demencia secundaria a la enfermedad de Parkinson. Por su parte, los trastornos asociados con la aparición y desarrollo de la demencia, con una menor prevalencia, son la parálisis supranuclear progresiva, la degeneración cortico basal, la atrofia multisistémica y la enfermedad de Huntington. Cabe destacar que las demencias en paciente jóvenes, o de tipo no neurodegenerativas pueden ser reversibles, de progresión lenta o deleble, si se identifica a tiempo la causa subyacente, y se establece el tratamiento oportuno, como en el caso de la demencia vascular, que usualmente se presenta concomitantemente con la enfermedad de Alzheimer en la mayoría de los pacientes con demencia crónica (demencia mixta). (Keene, Montine, & Lewis H Kuller, 2018) La demencia puede presentar más de una causa, especialmente en personas mayores, y en particular, con el progreso de la enfermedad y las comorbilidades que pueda presentar el individuo, como hipertensión arterial o diabetes. Todos estos factores exacerban el deterioroSave to LibraryDownloadby Camila Sofia Contreras Rojas•  8  Dementia, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Dementia Care, Vascular dementiaDementia and Creativity: Can Art Therapy stimulate dementia patients positively? This paper reviews experimental studies of art therapy and the benefits of creative therapy for people with dementia. Even though empirical research is still limited, there is some evidence that art therapy has a valid therapeutic value... moreThis paper reviews experimental studies of art therapy and the benefits of creative therapy for people with dementia. Even though empirical research is still limited, there is some evidence that art therapy has a valid therapeutic value for patients with dementia. The goal of this study is to propose an experiment that would support the idea that art therapy has positive and meaningful effects on the wellbeing of people with dementia. Observational outcomes of creative self-expression, communication and mood in participants with dementia are estimated to be improved during and after an eight week art making project among participants with dementia. It is expected that the results of the experiment would support the hypothesis of the study that art therapy stimulates dementia patients positively. Since art therapy can be an empowering tool in improving psychological wellbeing for people with dementia, it is proposed to include creative art therapy sessions in dementia care services.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anastasia Golovina Dessaint•  8  Psychology, Experimental Psychology, Art Theory, DementiaGENDER ISSUES IN CARING FOR DEMENTED RELATIVESSave to LibraryDownloadby Savvas Papacostas•  2  Dementia, Dementia CareEvidence-based checklist for wayfinding design in dementia care facilitiesOver the past few years, much has been learned about design features that facilitate wayfinding for nursing home residents with dementia. In this unique submission, the author has pulled together the relevant evidence-based research on... moreOver the past few years, much has been learned about design features that facilitate wayfinding for nursing home residents with dementia. In this unique submission, the author has pulled together the relevant evidence-based research on wayfinding from recent years and compiled a checklist and rating scale. This checklist and rating system can be used by owners, staff and facility designers of nursing homes when they consider either the upgrade of existing units, or the design of new facilities.Save to LibraryDownloadby William Benbow•  2  Dementia Care, NURSING HOME SPATIAL DESIGNHogewey: a ‘home from home’ in the NetherlandsThe Journal of Dementia Care May/June 2015 Vol 23 No 3,pp 28-31. When it comes to learning from international developments in dementia care, there are few better places to look than the Netherlands. Hogewey, located 20 miles south of... moreThe Journal of Dementia Care May/June 2015 Vol 23 No 3,pp 28-31. When it comes to learning from internationaldevelopments in dementia care, there arefew better places to look than theNetherlands. Hogewey, located 20 miles south ofAmsterdam in the small town of Weesp, is anaward-winning development that pioneers anexcitingly different kind of provision of residentialand nursing care for people with advanceddementia. And its novel approach is much neededwhen, in spite of the many good examples, there isstill too much sub-standard care.Save to LibraryDownloadby Beatrice Godwin•Dementia CareTransing dementia: Rethinking compulsory biographical continuity through the theorization of cisism and cisnormativity (Journal of Aging Studies, 2021)Using theoretical tools from trans studies and disability/crip studies, we reconceptualize the self in the context of dementia. We illustrate that most dementia discourse, scholarship and intervention emphasize a maintenance of the... moreUsing theoretical tools from trans studies and disability/crip studies, we reconceptualize the self in the context of dementia. We illustrate that most dementia discourse, scholarship and intervention emphasize a maintenance of the pre-dementia self. We argue that the compulsory biographical continuity needed to maintain the predementia self is based on interlocking forms of ageism, ableism, and cogniticism, and interacts with what we call cisism (the oppressive system that discriminates against people on the basis of change) and its normative components, cisnormativity* and ciscognonormativity. After providing a critical genealogy of the term cisnormativity*, we resignify and redeploy this concept in the context of dementia, demonstrating how it is useful for critiquing compulsory biographical continuity. Following the verbs queering and cripping, we propose a transing of dementia that leads to a new conceptualization of the self that is fluid and changing, rather than one anchored in multiple oppressions.KEYWORDS: Trans non-binary; Dementia; Cisnormativity; Ableism;Ageism; SelfhoodSave to LibraryDownloadby Alexandre  Baril•  20  Cognitive Psychology, Transgender Studies, Dementia, AgingMilica Czerny review-The Right to Die with Dignity.pdf“The Right to Die with Dignity” offers a valid and up to date discussion on euthanasia. The text can be divided into three levels: ethical, medical and law level. On each Raphael Cohen-Almagor shows incredible thoroughness and... more“The Right to Die with Dignity” offers a valid and up to date discussion on euthanasia. The text can be divided into three levels: ethical, medical and law level. On each Raphael Cohen-Almagor shows incredible thoroughness and exhaustiveness. The book contains many statistic data, court cases, examples and arguments for and against. The book is characterized by several virtues among which the fact that the argumentation is rational, clear, simple and above all with a remarkable human approach as a main feature. It is also an easy readable work, for those who meet the questions of morality and legislation of euthanasia for the first time, but also for those who gathered some experience in this subject.Save to LibraryDownloadby Raphael Cohen-almagor and +1Milica Czerny Urban•  20  Bioethics, End Of Life Studies, Dementia, Medical EthicsForgotten Wishes: End-of-Life Documents for Trans People with Dementia at the Margins of Legal Change (Canadian Journal of Law and Society, 2020)REFERENCE: Baril, A., M. Silverman, M.-C. Gauthier and M. Lévesque (2020). “Forgotten Wishes: End-of-life documents for trans people with dementia at the margins of legal change,” Special Issue: On the Margins of Trans Legal Changes,... moreREFERENCE: Baril, A., M. Silverman, M.-C. Gauthier and M. Lévesque (2020). “Forgotten Wishes: End-of-life documents for trans people with dementia at the margins of legal change,” Special Issue: On the Margins of Trans Legal Changes, Canadian Journal of Law & Society, p. 1-24, doi:10.1017/cls.2020.13ABSTRACT: Literature on the topic of trans older adults has documented a few anecdotal cases in which some trans people living with dementia forgot they transitioned and reidentified with their sex assigned at birth ("detransition"). Trans communities and their allies have encouraged trans people to engage in end-of-life planning, including the preparation of legal documents that state their wishes regarding gender identity and expression in the event of "incapacity" caused by dementia. While useful, we contend that end-of-life planning is often implicitly based on cisnormative and cognonormative (normative system based on cognitive abilities) assumptions. Such planning is founded on a stable notion of gender identity throughout the life course ("post-transition") and assumes that the pre-dementia self is better equipped to make decisions than the "demented" self. We conclude by encouraging, based on an intersectional, trans-affirmative, crip-positive, and age-positive approach, respect for the agency of trans people with dementia. KEYWORDS: Trans and nonbinary people, end-of-life planning and documents, cisgenderism/transphobia, ableism/cogniticism, ageism, epistemic injustices. RÉSUMÉ: Les écrits portant sur les personnes âgées trans ont documenté quelques cas anecdotiques dans lesquels des personnes trans vivant avec une démence ont oublié leur transition et se sont réidentifiées avec leur sexe assigné à la naissance (« détransition »). Les communautés trans et leurs alliés encouragent ainsi les personnes trans à s'engager dans la planification de leur fin de vie, notamment à travers la préparation de documents juridiques qui énoncent leurs souhaits relativement à leur identité et à leur expression de genre en cas « d'incapacité » causée par la démence. Bien que de tels documents s'avèrent utiles, nous soutenons que la planification de la fin de vie est souvent implicitement basée sur des hypothèses cisnormatives et cognonormatives (système normatif basé sur les capacités cognitives). Une telle planification repose sur une conception de l’identité de genre comme étant stable tout au long de la vie (« post-transition ») et suppose que le soi « pré-démence » est mieux équipé pour prendre des décisions que le soi « dément ». Nous concluons en encourageant, sur la base d’une approche intersectionnelle, trans-affirmative, crip-positive et âge-positive, le respect de l’agentivité des per- sonnes trans vivant avec une démence.MOTS CLÉS: Personnes trans et non binaires, démence, planification de fin de vie, cisgenrisme/transphobie, capacitisme/cogniticisme, âgisme, injustices épistémiques.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexandre  Baril•  20  Disability Studies, Gerontology, Critical Disability Studies, Transgender StudiesSorgende Gemeinschaften? 'Demenzfreundliche Kommunen' zwischen sozialstaatlichem Sparmodell und EmanzipationsgewinnDer von Bund, Kommunen und Selbsthilfeorganisationen ausgerufene ‚demenzfreundliche‘ Umbau der Gesellschaft wird einer kritischen Analyse unterzogen. Hierfür werden die polit-ökonomischen und wohlfahrtstaatlichen Rahmenbedingungen des... moreDer von Bund, Kommunen und Selbsthilfeorganisationen ausgerufene ‚demenzfreundliche‘ Umbau der Gesellschaft wird einer kritischen Analyse unterzogen. Hierfür werden die polit-ökonomischen und wohlfahrtstaatlichen Rahmenbedingungen des sozialpolitischen Konzepts der ‚sorgenden Gemeinschaft‘ rekonstruiert, welches die Zivilgesellschaft zu einer wesentlichen Akteurin ‚demenzsensibler‘ Kommunen erklärt. Unter den gegebenen Bedingungen läuft diese Entwicklung Gefahr, den mangelnden Ausbau sozialstaatlicher Transfer- und Dienstleistungen in der Altensorge abzufedern. Am Beispiel des Konzepts der ‚demenzfreundlichen Kommune‘ wird gezeigt, dass bürgerschaftliche Sorgepraktiken Menschen mit Demenz zugleich Emanzipationsgewinne in Form von steigender sozialer Partizipation und Selbstbestimmung ermöglichen. Ausgehend von diesem Spannungsverhältnis wird ein Vorschlag unterbreitet, wie gemeinwesenorientierte Care-Arrangements jenseits der Dichotomie von sozialstaatlichem Sparmodell und idealistisch verklärter Sorgegemeinschaft zu fassen wären.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mike Laufenberg•  11  Feminist Theory, Disability Studies, Welfare State, Marxist political economyDementia Environment Design: Optimizing Resident Perception and CognitionDesign Research article on the importance of distinguishing dementia from normal aging, so that cognitive design can overlay perceptual design to compensate for respective losses.Save to LibraryDownloadby Steven J Orfield•  11  Architecture, Design Research Method (Architecture), Dementia, Alzheimer's DiseaseSix Principles of Dementia-Friendly NeighbourhoodThis document outlines some guiding principles and features that are useful for making outdoor spaces and environments more friendly and welcoming to people living with dementia in the community. Innovation and good practices of... moreThis document outlines some guiding principles and features that are useful for making outdoor spaces and environments more friendly and welcoming to people living with dementia in the community. Innovation and good practices of dementia-friendly interventions are offered for consideration. The goal of this collection of resources is to support those who wish to improve the neighbourhood built environment for people living with dementia in Singapore.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Rashed Bhuyan•  12  Self and Identity, Built Environment, Accessibility and universal design (Architecture), Ageing and HealthInfinite Plasticity?Save to LibraryDownloadby Mallika Desai•  7  Neuropsychology, Dementia, Neuroplasticity, Dementia CareJournal of Geriatric Care and Research, 2016, Vol 3, Issue 1Save to LibraryDownloadby Journal of Geriatric Care and Research (JGCR)•  11  Geriatrics, Dementia, Disaster risk management, Psychiatry of older ageKognitive Beeinträchtigung mit Butler verstehen - Butler im Kontext kognitiver Beeinträchtigung verstehen.Der Beitrag will das sonderpädagogische und kulturwissenschaftliche Verständnis von kognitiver Beeinträchtigung (insbesondere ‚geistige Behinderung‘ und ‚Demenz‘) um die Perspektive Judith Butlers erweitern. Der Rekurs auf Butlers... moreDer Beitrag will das sonderpädagogische und kulturwissenschaftliche Verständnis von kognitiver Beeinträchtigung (insbesondere ‚geistige Behinderung‘ und ‚Demenz‘) um die Perspektive Judith Butlers erweitern. Der Rekurs auf Butlers Theoriemodell schließt an aktuelle Diskussionen innerhalb der Disability Studies an, die ‚Behinderung‘ als Ergebnis kultureller Zuschreibungspraxen und damit als prinzipiell kontingent beschreiben. Im Mittelpunkt steht die kulturelle Hervorrufung und Reproduktion von 'geistiger Behinderung' und 'Demenz' durch machtvolle Diskurse entlang der diskurs- und subjekttheoretischen Annahmen, die Butler für die Generierung der heterosexuellen Geschlechterdichotomie herausgearbeitet hat. Dabei wird insbesondere Butlers Kritik an der Unterscheidung einer vermeintlich biologisch-außerdiskursiven, natürlichen Geschlechtlichkeit (Sex) und einer sozial konstruierten Geschlechtsidentität (Gender) für eine (Re-) Definition von ‚kognitiver Beeinträchtigung‘ als kulturell erzeugtem Phänomen fruchtbar gemacht. Neben dem Erkenntnisgewinn dieser transdisziplinären Lesart für das Forschungsfeld einer anwendungsorientierten Heilpädagogik und einer daraus abgeleiteten Kritik an Institutionalisierungsprozessen im sonderpädagogisch/gerontologischen Praxisfeld, hebt der Beitrag auch immanente Grenzen der Subjekttheorie Butlers hervor, die für eine sozialwissenschaftliche Rezeption fruchtbar gemacht werden können. Die Konstitution des Subjekts nach Butler, so eine Kernthese, läuft dann ins Leere, wenn das betreffende Subjekt den Sprechakt, der es hervorruft, aufgrund kognitiver Beeinträchtigungen nicht auf intersubjektiv nachvollziehbare Art und Weise beantworten kann.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hendrik  Trescher•  25  Sociology, Critical Discourse Studies, Sociology of Education, Special EducationBeziehungsgestaltung in der PflegePerson-centered care for people with dementia is particularly challenging when the person in need of care exhibits challenging behavior (BPSD). The expert standard "Relationship management in the Care of People with Dementia (DNQP 2018)... morePerson-centered care for people with dementia is particularly challenging when the person in need of care exhibits challenging behavior (BPSD).The expert standard "Relationship management in theCare of People with Dementia (DNQP 2018)places the orientation towards needs and relationshipsin the center of the care of people with dementia.dementia. Because there is a great dangerthat people with severe care needs see their relationship to therelationship with the caregiver as an impotent dependency relationship.relationship. The BreLa-Understanding-Hypothesiswith the central life themes from Basal Stimulation can prevent this.prevent this.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ansgar Schürenberg•  3  Dementia Care, Person Centred Care, Basal StimulationForgotten lives: Trans older adults living with dementia at the intersection of cisgenderism, ableism/cogniticism and ageism (Journal Sexualities, 2019)ABSTRACT: There is little research at the international level to help us understand the experiences and needs of trans people living with dementia, despite population aging and the growing numbers of trans people including the first... moreABSTRACT:There is little research at the international level to help us understand the experiences and needs of trans people living with dementia, despite population aging and the growing numbers of trans people including the first cohort of trans older adults. There is a need to understand the widespread barriers, discrimination and mistreatment faced by trans people in the health and social service system, and the fears trans people express about aging and dementia. Anecdotal evidence from the scarce literature on the topic of LGBTQ populations and dementia suggest that cognitive changes can impact on gender identity. For example, trans older adults with dementia may forget they transitioned and reidentify with their sex/gender assigned at birth or may experience 'gender confusion.' This raises crucial questions, for example regarding practices related to pronouns, care to the body (shaving, hair, clothes, etc.), social gendered interactions, health care (continuing or not hormonal therapy) and so on. This article fills a gap in current literature by offering a first typology of responses offered by academics who analyzed the topic of dementia and gender identity, to trans older adults with dementia who may be experiencing 'gender confusion,' namely: (1) a gender neutralization approach; (2) a trans-affirmative stable approach; and (3) a trans-affirmative fluid approach. After providing critical reflections regarding each approach, we articulate the foundations of a fourth paradigm, rooted in an interdisciplinary dialogue regarding the interlocking systems of oppression faced by trans older adults with dementia, namely ageism, ableism/sanism, and cisgenderism.KEYWORDS:Ableism/cogniticism, ageism, cisgenderism/transphobia, dementia, trans and non-binary peoplePDF ALSO AVAILABLE ON: Sexualities Online First https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1363460719876835Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexandre  Baril and +1Marjorie Silverman•  20  Social Work, Memory (Cognitive Psychology), Disability Studies, Critical Disability StudiesGerontechnology Outcomes:  Technology Intervention on Quality of Life in Dementia CareGiven that, by and large, Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) are aimed at increasing efficacy of workflows, faster and more accurate transfer of information, and decreasing cumbersome procedures, at least some ICTs are... moreGiven that, by and large, Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) are aimed at increasing efficacy of workflows, faster and more accurate transfer of information, and decreasing cumbersome procedures, at least some ICTs are directed towards promoting a high quality of life. Particularly, if technologies are used to enhance services, ensure or increase safety and security, promote independence, and/or facilitate social interaction, they impact domains specifically measured in quality of life assessments. As there is no cure for most dementias, the focus of care is largely on the individual’s quality of life, applying technologies to this area of health and social care would seem an appropriate fit. One of the aims of technology solutions to benefit aging adults is to improve quality of life and capability to live independently and healthily; however, improvements in life quality are difficult to measure, and showing the effectiveness of gerontechnology-based solutions is problematic. This research investigated the quantitative data to see if technology use was indeed a facilitator of increased quality of life. The hypothesis was that the older adults and their caregivers would report a positive influence on their quality of life after using the technologies. The end users gave reports via questionnaires on quality of life while metrics, such as frequency of use of a technology and time of use were recorded through the technology system. The work is based on data collected through the clinical intervention trial, and the courses, publications, independent analysis, and interdisciplinary collaboration during the PhD study. The PhD was with the Department of Electronic Systems at Aalborg University in Aalborg, Denmark. The research has been funded through Aalborg University and the European Union Information and Communication Technology Policy Support Program Pilot Type B Project ISISEMD (Intelligent System for Independent living and SElf-care of seniors with cognitive problems or Mild Dementia). Conclusions drawn from the study show that gerontechnology can indeed have a positive influence on quality of life in dementia care; however, significant effects on life quality were confirmed only in the caregivers. There are still knowledge gaps in evaluating quality of life outcomes from using technology in dementia care, and more homogenous, rigorous studies need to be done in this field. Without careful operationalization of the concept, it will be difficult for researchers to interpret the (clinical) outcomes into meaningful results that can be used by other researchers, caregivers, and medical professionals. Objective: Intervention analysis on the efficacy of telecare services in home-based dementia care after 15 months. Design: Multinational, non-blinded, quasi-experimental, clinical intervention trial (nonpharmacological) Setting: Homes of individuals with dementia in North Ireland, Denmark, Finland, and Greece Participants: From 63 individuals with dementia and their caregivers, 31 intervention dyads are compared to 22 control dyads. Intervention: A telecare system consisting of domotics with a centralized architecture aimed to support safety, independence, and quality of life, and to reduce caregiver burden through the transfer of tasks and care support. Main outcome measures: Physical functioning (ADL and IADL), quality of life (QOL-AD and SQLC), caregiver burden (ZBI) are comparative outcomes, and global responses provide exploratory outcomes in the intervention group. The statistical analysis applies t-tests to verify significant differences in means and Pearson correlations to test for linear relationships within the data, all using 95% Confidence Interval. Results: There is a highly significant difference in caregiver burden between the technology intervention and control groups (p=0,02**). The intervention group showed a non-significant reduction in caregiver burden (p=0,51) while the control group showed a highly significant increase in caregiver burden (p=0,01**). The intervention group shows improvement in home safety (80,6%), a high level of user satisfaction (88,7%), and the majority expresses desire to continue using (90,3%) the telecare services and a willingness to pay for such services (53,2%). Conclusion: This study showed that the use of telecare intervention to support dementia care has protective and positive effects for the informal caregivers, but overall does not measure as performing significantly different than usual care. The evidence suggests telecare can be beneficial but methodology limitations prevent definitive conclusions. Trial registration: The Phase I clinical intervention trial did not require registration. The trial was funded by the European Commission Competitiveness and Innovation Programme - Information and Communication Technology - Policy Support Programme. The pilot type B.2008.1.4 project ISISEMD was executed from 01/03/2009 to 31/08/2011. Reference: CIP-ICT-PSP-2-238914. Trial information can be found at the project website http://www.isisemd.eu/.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carrie B Peterson•  4  Gerontechnology, Mild Cognitive Impairment, Dementia Care, Alzheimer's disease and other dementiasPerson centred care and the person with dementiaTo study person centred care for people with a dementia with a particular focus on residential aged care facilities - A 2013 Churchill Fellowship Report.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tony  Schumacher Jones•  3  Dementia Care, Person Centred Care, Design for DementiaEstimulación cognitiva en el envejecimiento sano, el deterioro cognitivo leve y las demencias: estrategias de intervención y consideraciones teóricas para la práctica clínicaEntre las terapias no farmacológicas que se han ido proponiendo en los últimos años, la estimulación cognitiva es la que recibe el mayor apoyo empírico, especialmente en el envejecimiento normal, el deterioro cognitivo leve y las... moreEntre las terapias no farmacológicas que se han ido proponiendo en los últimos años, la estimulación cognitiva es la que recibe el mayor apoyo empírico, especialmente en el envejecimiento normal, el deterioro cognitivo leve y las demencias, llegando a proponerse como la primera intervención a realizar cuando se realizan esos últimos diagnósticos. Existen diferentes programas de estimulación cognitiva en castellano, adaptados a las diferentes características de las poblaciones a las que pretenden atender. Dado que la proliferación de dichos programas corre el riesgo de menoscabar su calidad, se plantean una serie de recomendaciones teóricas que deben tenerse en cuenta a la hora de aplicar estimulación cognitiva a estas poblaciones: i) su administración debe ser individual o en grupos muy reducidos y homogéneos que permitan utilizar las estrategias de intervención neuropsicológica independientemente del proceso cognitivo que se pretenda trabajar, y ii) la selección de las tareas a usar debe estar enmarcada en un modelo teórico que las fundamente y les dé sentido, evitando confundir la estimulación cognitiva con la mera repetición de ejercicios variados. En conclusión, el profesional debe seleccionar los materiales que resulten más adecuados de entre los disponibles en la literatura, ajustándolos tanto a las características del individuo en función de los resultados en su evaluación neuropsicológica, como al marco teórico en que el fundamenta su intervención. Todo ello utilizando estrategias de rehabilitación y contemplando otros aspectos cognitivos, emocionales y comportamentales que puedan estar comprometiendo el funcionamiento del paciente en la vida cotidiana. Among the non-pharmacological therapies proposed in the last few years, cognitive stimulation has received the most empirical support, especially in normal aging, mild cognitive impairment and dementia. Indeed, this therapeutic modality is the firstline intervention in the latter two diagnoses. There are a large number of cognitive stimulation programs in the Spanish language that have been adapted to distinct clinical populations. Since the proliferation of these programs could reduce their quality, two theoretical recommendations are suggested for their implementation in clinical practice: i) interventions should be carried out individually or in small and homogeneous groups to facilitate the use of neuropsychological strategies regardless of the cognitive process to be treated, and ii) tasks should be selected within a theoretical framework to avoid confusing cognitive stimulation with merely repeating a variety of exercises. In conclusion, the most suitable materials for intervention should be selected according to the available empirical evidence. These materials should be adapted to both the patient’s neuropsychological profile and the theoretical framework supporting the cognitive intervention. In this context, the use of distinct rehabilitation strategies would also be desirable, bearing in mind the cognitive, emotional and behavioral variables that may be related to the patients daily life.Save to LibraryDownloadby José María Ruiz Sánchez de León•  17  Neuroscience, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Memory (Cognitive Psychology)PhD thesis: Animal-assisted intervention as health promotion for elderly persons with dementia Dyreassistert intervensjon som helsefremmende tiltak for eldre personer med demens Philosophiae Doctor (PhD) ThesisSave to LibraryDownloadby Christine Olsen•  5  Dementia, Animal Assisted Therapy, Engagement, Dementia CareBook Review: Brijnath, Unforgotten Love and the Culture of Dementia Care in IndiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Lilian Kennedy•  6  Dementia, Love, Food and Nutrition, IndiaUnderstand the process and experience of dementia UNIT 21.docxSave to LibraryDownloadby Jericho Palero•Dementia CareAssignment 203 city & guilds NVQ Lvl II in social careThree papers completed for the NVQ Level II in Social careSave to LibraryDownloadby John Bradley•  2  Dementia Care, Health and Social CareDOWN THE RABBIT HOLEDownloadable Proof (1).PDFRevised Jan 2022. DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE (a journey through end stage dementia) This is a must read for anyone touched by dementia. This first... moreRevised Jan 2022. DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE(a journey through end stage dementia)This is a must read for anyone touched by dementia.                                                                                             This first person account of end stage dementia will leave you speechless. Join Stephen and Lauren as they try to navigate their ever changing landscape. Delve into a deteriorating mind where you too will experience guilt, denial, fear; anything but acceptance to this unrelenting thief, as you become absorbed in the road to nowhere, the one leading you down the rabbit hole.Down the Rabbit Hole is an honest, relatable look at a disease that leaves loved ones alive but vacant of the things we once loved.* * *DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE is now available in the GTA Richmond Hill and Hamilton Wentworth public libraries. * * *"Congratulations to Veronika for capturing her experience as a caregiver to her husband living with dementia. The issue of dementia continues to grow, so continued awareness of what the disease is – and how it affects those caring or people living with dementia – is such an important part of decreasing stigma and helping others face the journey of the disease. Thank you for your perspective and your willingness to share it with others…Cathy BarrickChief Executive OfficerAlzheimer Society of Ontario”Save to LibraryDownloadby Veronika Zyss•  5  Dementia, Cognitive Aging, Dementia Care, Vascular dementiaJournal of Geriatric Care and Research 2022, Volume 9, Issue 1Save to LibraryDownloadby Journal of Geriatric Care and Research (JGCR)•  18  Geriatrics, Neurology, Ophthalmology, Psychiatryการมีชีวิตอยู่กับภาวะสมองเสื่อมระยะเริ่มต้นของผูู้สูงอายุ: การศึกษารายกรณีเชิงคุณภาพ (Living with Early-stage Dementia of Older Persons: A Qualitative Case Study)Purpose: To explore the experiences of older persons living with early stage dementia. Design: Multiple cases studies qualitative research. Methods: Case studies were 7 older persons who had been diagnosed and had experienced in living... morePurpose: To explore the experiences of older persons living with early stage dementia.Design: Multiple cases studies qualitative research.Methods: Case studies were 7 older persons who had been diagnosed and had experienced in living with early stage dementia. Case studies were recruited using a purposive sampling technique from memory and geriatric clinic and outpatient medical-surgical services of three hospitals in Bangkok. In-depth interview and participatory observation were used to gather information from case studies. Content analysis and cross-cases analysis were used to synthesize the information.Findings: The experiences of older persons living with early stage dementia can be classified into five themes: 1) perception of changing in signs and symptoms, 2) the impact of having early-stage of dementia, 3) using religion to cope with the conditions, 4) management of symptoms of early-stage dementia, and 5) expectation in receiving care.Conclusion: The result of this study can be used for designing nursing care plan to meet needs of older persons living with early-stage of dementia and their caregivers. The purpose of the nursing care plan is to help them cope with and manage symptoms and other consequences of dementia as well as to care for older persons with dementia in long-term and end of life care.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nitty  Nittiya and +1Siriphan Sasat•Dementia CareIt's Care -But Not As We Know It: Careful Relations with Caring with DementiaAs a doctoral researcher, I follow people with dementia who visit a daycare center, as they inhabit and produce spheres of belonging. This talk draws from this ongoing research. I here explore one of the ethnographic situations that for... moreAs a doctoral researcher, I follow people with dementia who visit a daycare center, as they inhabit and produce spheres of belonging. This talk draws from this ongoing research. I here explore one of the ethnographic situations that for me motivates the challenging of Care as a field of research, an analytic, and a modality of relations. I suggest to move beyond Care-as-we-know-it through an onto-epistemological engagement with caring practices that is affective and correspondent; and follows the material-discursive enactments of Care in a the assemblic emergence of worlds.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christine Verbruggen•  5  Affect Studies, Dementia Care, Anthropology of Aging, WorldingSensory Design for Dementia Care - The Benefits of TextilesThe journal article discusses the role of textiles in facilitating sensory enriched environments and meaningful occupation for people living with dementia. It is based on recent interdisciplinary research, a collaboration between design... moreThe journal article discusses the role of textiles in facilitating sensory enriched environments and meaningful occupation for people living with dementia. It is based on recent interdisciplinary research, a collaboration between design and healthcare, that investigated the provision of multi-sensory experience for people with dementia living in care-homes, particularly the quality and design of Multi-Sensory Environments (MSEs). Through an ethnographic study this investigation unveiled significant design deficiencies of existing facilities in UK care-homes and profound lack of information amongst care professionals and care givers. The absence of textiles and its appropriate use was noticeable. From this research essential design criteria emerged which informed the development of initial design recommendations for setting up MSEs tailored to the specific needs of people living with dementia and their carers. Further, the article discusses the benefits of employing textiles in dementia care – either for occupation or within the environment. Sensorial qualities and psychological benefits are highlighted as well as the potential of applying advanced textile technologies. Further work is suggested regarding three aspects: proof-of-concept and prototyping implementing the developed design recommendations for sensory enhanced spaces to establish more evidence from end-user feedback as requested by stakeholders; investigating ways of how to achieve sustainable impact through adapting participatory design methods and conveying design skills and knowledge to care practitioners; exploring the potential of textiles and advanced textile technology for design for dementia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anke Jakob•  8  Dementia, Textile Design, Smart Textiles, Dementia CareTratamiento de las funciones cognitivas en personas con demenciaAlgunos estudios plantean que retrasar un año la progresión de las demencias hacia estadios de mayor dependencia significaría una mejor calidad de vida para los pacientes (Olazarán et al., 2010) y una significativa reducción del gasto... moreAlgunos estudios plantean que retrasar un año la progresión de las demencias hacia estadios de mayor dependencia significaría una mejor calidad de vida para los pacientes (Olazarán et al., 2010) y una significativa reducción del gasto público y el coste económico y social asociado (Terrón y Casanova, 2004). Este aplazamiento podría ser facilitado por la combinación de las nuevas terapias farmacológicas con intervenciones rehabilitadoras específicas e intervenciones psicosociales (Spector, Woods & Orrell, 2008).Dentro de la diversidad de programas de tratamiento no farmacológico de las demencias podemos encontrar los programas de estimulación y actividad (terapia de orientación a la realidad, reminiscencia, musicoterapia, psicoestimulación integral, actividad física); la reestructuración ambiental; los programas para familiares; el entrenamiento en capacidades cognitivas específicas; las técnicas de modificación de conducta y programas interactivos por ordenador. Si bien no existe evidencia tipo I sobre la eficacia de estas técnicas, numerosos estudios han encontrado resultados que indican que retrasan el deterioro cognitivo. Por otra parte, los efectos observados trascienden el área cognitiva, produciendo beneficios sobre el estado de ánimo, la integración y la apatía (Francés, Barandiarán, Marcellán y Moreno, 2003).En el caso de las intervenciones cognitivas, estudios recientes han demostrado que logran mejorar las funciones cognitivas y la calidad de vida de personas con demencia (Spector, Woods, & Orrell, 2008).García Casal, J.A., Franco Martín, M., Perea Bartolomé, M.V. (2015). Tratamiento de las funciones cognitivas en personas condemencia. En: Libro del XXXII Congreso Nacional de Enfermería de Salud Mental. Asociación Nacional de Enfermería de Salud Mental. ISBN Nº: 978-84-942921-1-8.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jesús Antonio García Casal•  5  Dementia, Dementia Care, Neuropsychology of Ageing and Dementia, Mild Cognitive Impairment, Dementia, Alzheimer's diseasePersonalized Music as a Spiritual Intervention with People Living with Dementia (D.Min. Thesis-Project)The author tested the thesis: providing a device with a personalized music playlist is one effective spiritual resource for people living with moderate to severe dementia in a long-term care facility when used on a regular basis in a... moreThe author tested the thesis: providing a device with a personalized music playlist is one effective spiritual resource for people living with moderate to severe dementia in a long-term care facility when used on a regular basis in a spiritual care relationship. Listening to the familiar music helps build a relationship of care and support, helps theresident feel comforted, lessens the anxiety of the resident, assists in meaning making, and lessens the resident’s feelings of isolation. This author wrote five case studies based on spiritual care visits over a period of three months. The research supported the thesis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dan Lunney•  18  Practical theology, Narrative, Dementia, Alzheimer's DiseaseLoving and knowing: reflections for an engaged epistemologyIn search of our highest capacities, cognitive scientists aim to explain things like mathematics, language, and planning (and while explaining them, they often imagine computers at work). But are these really our most sophisticated forms... moreIn search of our highest capacities, cognitive scientists aim to explain things like mathematics, language, and planning (and while explaining them, they often imagine computers at work). But are these really our most sophisticated forms of knowing? In this paper, I point to a different pinnacle of cognition. Our most sophisticated human knowing, I think, lies in how we engage with each other, in our relating. Cognitive science and philosophy of mind have largely ignored the ways of knowing at play here. At the same time, the emphasis on discrete, rational knowing to the detriment of engaged, human knowing pervades societal practices and institutions, often with harmful effects on people and their relations. There are many reasons why we need a new, engaged-or even engaging-epistemology of human knowing. The enactive theory of participatory sense-making takes steps towards this, but it needs deepening. Kym Maclaren's (2002) idea of letting be invites such a deepening. Characterizing knowing as a relationship of letting be provides a nuanced way to deal with the tensions between the knower's being and the being of the known, as they meet in the process of knowing-and-being-known. This meeting of knower and known is not easy to understand. However, there is a mode of relating in which we know it well, and that is: in loving relationships. I propose to look at human knowing through the lens of loving. We then see that both knowing and loving are existential, dialectic ways in which concrete and particular beings engage with each other.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hanne De Jaegher•  20  Cognitive Science, Epistemology, Dementia, CognitionSensory enrichment for people living with dementia: increasing the benefits of multisensory environments in dementia care through designRecent research has investigated the impact of design on providing multisensory experience for people with dementia living in care homes, particularly the quality of multisensory environments (MSEs). This interdisciplinary research... moreRecent research has investigated the impact of design on providing multisensory experience for people with dementia living in care homes, particularly the quality of multisensory environments (MSEs). This interdisciplinary research evolved from a broad consideration of the role of design in dementia care enhancing the wellbeing of people living with dementia and their carers. Previous research suggests that using MSE in dementia care as a resource for meaningful engagement has beneficial effects and many MSEs have been installed in UK care homes. However, evidence indicates that these spaces often fail to benefit the residents causing staff becoming discouraged and subsequently the room becoming unused. A study investigating the current facilitation of MSE in sixteen UK care homes revealed two key issues: (1) set-up and design of existing MSEs in care environments is, in most cases, not suitable for older people; (2) there is a lack of knowledge and information for care practitioners for facilitating sensory activities and environments. Based on these findings, design criteria improving usability and accessibility for people with dementia were established and user-centred design recommendations developed. As a first step towards closing the knowledge gap amongst healthcare practitioners in providing multisensory experience, initial design guidelines were published as an online resource.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anke Jakob•  8  Dementia, Sensory Design (Architecture), Dementia Care, Multisensory DesignNextLast »Related TopicsClinical Decision Support SystemFollowFollowingDementiaFollowFollowingBiotransformationFollowFollowingAtherosclerosisFollowFollowingGeriatric medicineFollowFollowingTelemedicineFollowFollowingHepatologyFollowFollowingAlzheimer DementiaFollowFollowingHistory of Environmental design and Science in ArchitectureFollowFollowingOptical physicsFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023