 
 
German film exploring roots of Pennsylvania Dutch culture shown at Kutztown Folk Festival [Video] – Reading Eagle
 
Skip to content
All Sections
Subscribe Now 
61°F
 
Thursday, August 31st 2023
E-Edition 
Home Page
Close MenuNews
News
Election
Coronavirus
South Schuylkill News
Berks Country
Education
Health
History
Politics
Spotted Lanternfly
Ask the Eagle
Transportation
Pennsylvania News
Sports
Sports
Berks Game Day
High School Sports
Penn State
College Sports
Philadelphia Phillies
Reading Royals
NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL
Motorsports
Things To Do
Things to Do
Entertainment
Restaurants Food and Drink
Home and Garden
Pets and Animals
Travel
Fashion
Parenting and Family
Events
Business
Business
Local Businesses
Business Spotlight Form
Newsmakers Form
Opinion
Opinion
Editorials
Letters to the Editor
Local Columnists
How to leave feedback
Obituaries
Classifieds
Classifieds
Place An Ad
Jobs
Public Notices
Contact Us
Tools
Contact Us
Submission Forms
Gas Buddy
Reproductions
Newspapers in Education
Newspapers in Education contest
Patriot Item
Subscribe
Special Sections
Login
Logout
Close Menu 
Sign up for email newsletters
Sign Up
 
German film exploring roots of Pennsylvania…
Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) 
Subscribe
Log in
 
Account Settings
Contact Us
Log Out
Spoof a user
Sign up for email newsletters
Sign Up
Subscribe
Log in
 
Search
61°F
 
Thursday, August 31st 2023
E-Edition 
 
News
Sports
Things to Do
Business
Opinion
Obituaries
Classifieds
Special Sections
 
 
 
 
News
German film exploring roots of Pennsylvania Dutch culture shown at Kutztown Folk Festival [Video]
Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
 
MediaNews Group: Lisa Mitchell
The German film “Hiwee wie Driwwe – The Roots of PA Dutch” was shown at the Kutztown Folk Festival on July 2. Pictured at the festival are filmmakers Benjamin Wagener and Christian Schega.
By Lisa Mitchell | lmitchell@berksmontnews.com | PUBLISHED: July 10, 2019 at 10:00 a.m. | UPDATED: August 19, 2021 at 2:01 a.m.A new documentary making its way across the U.S. – “Hiwee wie Driwwe – The Roots of PA Dutch” – was shown to a sold-out audience at the 2019 Kutztown Folk Festival.
“We’re really happy to show the film at the festival. Two years ago when they were here, a lot of the footage that they got for the overall documentary was shot right here at the festival,” said Kutztown Folk Festival director Steve Sharadin. “I think it is a tribute to the fact that Kutztown is still the epicenter so to speak of the PA Dutch culture.”
Filmmakers Benjamin Wagener and Christian Schega took the film on a U.S. tour this summer.
“It’s great coming back to the festival and meeting all of the people again,” said Schega. “Someone told me it’s like a family here at the festival. Somehow it’s also for us like coming back to family.”
Do you speak the lingo in Pennsylvania Dutch Country? Here are 21 words and phrases you should know 
14 Pennsylvania Dutch foods you’ll find at the Kutztown Folk Festival  
“It’s great being here for us,” said Wagener. “We have the opportunity to show it here to see how the people react and see what they think of the movie. The German reaction was great. They loved the movie. They laughed a lot. Of course, a lot of the things that work in Germany won’t work here and otherwise, so it’s interesting to see.”
About 90 minutes long, the documentary is about the PA Dutch culture and language, its history and the Palatinate region in Germany, where much of the film was shot. 
About 50 percent was filmed in Germany, and the other half filmed in Pennsylvania. Large parts were filmed at the Kutztown Folk Festival two years ago.
“During the film shooting in the USA in 2017, we realized that the interest in the topic of the film and also the film itself is very high. That is why we decided that we have to show the film about PA Dutch culture and language in America and Germany,” said Schega.
“What is great is people will see the similarities of the people in Germany and the people here because there are so many things that are the same that it is great to see. I hope they enjoy it and they realize that all of the people are the same in some kind of way,” said Wagener.
Schega and Wagener began working on the film in 2015.
Schega originally comes from a town called Landau in the South Palatinate, Germany. The dialect spoken in that area is called Pfalzisch. Schega and Wagener discovered that many people in the U.S. also speak more or less the same dialect, Pennsylvania Dutch.
“About 300 years ago many people from the Palatinate immigrated to the USA and settled in the area of today’s Pennsylvania. This fact is very unknown for people from the Palatinate,” said Schega. “As we found out here, many people do not know that we can actually understand the PA Dutch language.”
They conducted some research and met Douglas Madenford, who teaches German in the Kutztown area and is a PA Dutch YouTuber.
Madenford grew up in Centerport, Berks County, learning two languages, English and PA Dutch. He is the film’s main protagonist.
In the documentary, the film crew accompanies Madenford on a search for the roots of his language and culture.
“I’m the main character. I take the audience on the trip along with us throughout the film,” said Madenford, who was also at the festival performing PA Dutch music and humor with Chris LaRose.
Madenford joined the film makers on the tour in Pennsylvania, including the film showing at the Kutztown Folk Festival.
“I hope mostly that people, the PA Dutch people, are going to learn that there’s a whole group of people across the ocean where we originally came from that are so far apart yet so similar,” said Madenford. “We share so many commonalities. I hope it does the same thing for Germans who come to Pennsylvania to visit. Find out there is not these huge differences between our two peoples.”
The significance of filming the documentary at the festival is that “it’s the best that we have to preserve and show our culture to the people that are not PA Dutch but also remind PA Dutch that all of these things that are part of us – our food ways, our culture, our history, our language – nothing does it better than the Kutztown Folk Festival,” said Madenford.
In April the film celebrated its German premiere.
“People here loved the film so much that cinemas all over the Palatinate region in Germany showed the film in their regular program, right next to films like Dumbo or Avengers. In the first week, the film even entered the German movie charts in 37th place,” said Schega.
The U.S. film tour this summer included a stop at the German Consulate in New York City, the German Club Clark in New Jersey, the German Heritage Museum in Washington, the Frontier Culture Museum in Staunton, Va., and the German Society in Philadelphia.
The tour in Berks County included showings at the Berks History Center in Reading, the Hamburg Strand Theater and the Kutztown Folk Festival, as well as the Zeotropolis Cinema in Lancaster.
 
 
Lisa Mitchell
 
2019
July
10
 
Sign up for email newsletters
Sign Up
 
Most PopularMost PopularBoyertown, Kutztown University graduate Jerome Kapp waived by New York JetsBoyertown, Kutztown University graduate Jerome Kapp waived by New York JetsTrio charged in kidnapping and killing of Reading man, 19Trio charged in kidnapping and killing of Reading man, 19Berks woman charged in food stamp fraudBerks woman charged in food stamp fraudLegacy Cigar Lounge ready to open in West ReadingLegacy Cigar Lounge ready to open in West ReadingBerks farm family looks to honor all their landBerks farm family looks to honor all their landDriver charged with turning around before DUI checkpoint in BerksDriver charged with turning around before DUI checkpoint in BerksSchuylkill Valley teachers, residents criticize administration for high staff turnoverSchuylkill Valley teachers, residents criticize administration for high staff turnoverPedestrian dies 11 days after being struck by 2 cars in West ReadingPedestrian dies 11 days after being struck by 2 cars in West ReadingHamburg-er Festival, Ludwig’s Corner Horse Show highlight Labor Day weekend [Events roundup]Hamburg-er Festival, Ludwig's Corner Horse Show highlight Labor Day weekend [Events roundup]Berks man arrested in U.S. Capitol riot [Update]Berks man arrested in U.S. Capitol riot [Update] 
Trending Nationally
Tropical Storm Jose forms as Idalia joins Franklin and 3 more systems in AtlanticReview: Beyonce falls well short of delivering a masterpiece at Levi’s StadiumTrump pleads not guilty in Georgia election subversion case and says he’ll skip next week’s hearingTaylor Swift’s Eras Tour concert film heading to AMC Theatres in OctoberThey’re not hummingbirds, but giant sphinx moths appearing all around the Bay
 
More in News
 
South Schuylkill News College Notes, Aug. 31, 2023
 
SUBSCRIBER ONLY
Parking relief and monthly contest aimed at bolstering downtown businesses in Reading
 
SUBSCRIBER ONLY
Driver charged with turning around before DUI checkpoint in Berks
 
SUBSCRIBER ONLY
Health |  
Ask the Pediatrician: What is scabies?
 
Subscribe
Subscriber Services
Sign Up For Newsletters
e-Edition
Submit News
Contact Us
Work With Us
Newspapers in Education
Newspapers in Education contest
Media News Group
The Times Herald
Daily Local News
The Mercury
The Reporter
The Trentonian
Delaware Co Daily Times
About Us
Submission Forms
iOS App
Android App
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Sitemap
Classifieds
Place Classified Ad
Public Notices
Advertising Inquiry
Network Advertising
Jobs
Subscribe Now 
Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information
Notice of Financial Incentive
California Notice at Collection
Arbitration
MediaNews Group
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
 
Copyright © 2023 MediaNews Group
 
Close