Australian involvement in South-East Asian Conflicts | The Malayan Emergency (1948-1960) | Background | Causes and general description
53 captures
12 Sep 2009 - 11 May 2019
May
JUL
Aug
06
2009
2011
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks May 2011
  Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started May, 2011. These files are currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20110706121637/http://se-asia.commemoration.gov.au/background-to-malayan-emergency/causes-and-description.php
Australian involvement in South-East Asian Conflicts
The Malayan Emergency (1948-1960) and the Indonesian-Malaysian Confrontation (Konfrontasi) (1962-1966) 
Home »
Sitemap »
Skip to Content »
Home
Malayan Emergency: Background: Causes and general description
Introduction
Emergency and Confrontation
Overview
Malayan Emergency
Background
Causes and general description
Templer of Malaya
The Malayan Communist Party
Origins of the MCP
Chin Peng
Australians Arrive in Malaya
Overview
Australians on Operations
Army Operations
RAAF Operations
Naval Operations
Australia's Allies
Overview
Confrontation
Background
Causes and general description
Australia's Involvement
Australia's Involvement
Operations
Overview
Claret Operations
The SAS in Borneo
Artillery
Australia's Allies
Overview
Australia's Adversaries
Relations with Indonesia during the Confrontation
The Malayan Emergency (1948-1960): Background
Causes and general description of The Malayan Emergency (1948-1960)
British Prime Minister Clement Attlee alongside King George VI (in uniform). Succeeding Winston Churchill, Attlee was Prime Minister during the vital years between 1945 and 1951. His government’s foreign policy was marked by contradictions: the seemingly eager move away from colonial rule in the sub-continent contrasted with a ‘new colonialism’ in Africa. The British administration’s policy in post-war Malaya was also characterised by contradictions and changes of heart. [AWM P02018.404]
The Malayan Emergency was a conflict between communist guerrillas and British Commonwealth forces including Australians. The guerrillas, most of whom were Malayan Chinese, were seeking to overthrow the British colonial administration in Malaya. The term ‘Emergency’ is used to describe the conflict because on 18 June 1948 the British declared a State of Emergency in Malaya after guerrillas assassinated three European plantation managers in the northern state of Perak. 
The Malayan Emergency arose from political and ideological uncertainty in Asia following the Second World War, and from a long-standing antipathy between the British and the Malayan Chinese. Moreover, when the British resumed control after the war, the new administration failed to act firmly or consistently to solve social and economic problems in Malaya. The administration’s initial response to escalating violence on the part of the communists was also indecisive.
The Malayan Union Proposals were the immediate cause of this violence. In 1946 the British announced the proposals, which would have led to the granting of citizenship to the Malayan Chinese. The proposals were, however, extremely unpopular with the wider Malay population, so the British withdrew them. This about-face enraged the Malayan Chinese, some of whom, abandoning protests and strikes, began a campaign of violence that included intimidation, sabotage, and selective assassination. And in 1948 the Malayan Communist Party (MCP), attempting to redirect this violence, decided to convert the struggle against the British into a rural guerrilla war.
Although the assassinations of 1948 led to the declaration of a State of Emergency, the British only appointed a Director of Operations, Lieutenant-General Sir Harold Briggs, in 1950. Briggs completed a report that recommended both active anti-guerrilla operations and cutting the guerrillas off from communities likely to help them, as well as a systematic clearance of Malaya from the south to the north. Yet the assassination of the High Commissioner Sir Henry Guerney on October 1951 still suggested that, from a British perspective, the situation was continuing to deteriorate.
According to western accounts, the pivotal point in the conflict was the appointment in January 1952 of General Sir Gerald Templer as British High Commissioner and Director of Operations. During his two-year command in Malaya the energetic Templer carried out Briggs’ recommendations including the controversial resettlement of many rural Chinese into ‘new villages.’ Templer also offered the guerrillas rewards and other incentives to surrender.
As early as 1951, however, the MCP leadership was beginning to think that moving to a full-scale guerrilla war had been a mistake. From the mid-1950s communist leaders such as Chin Peng realised that they could not win, and began to press for a negotiated settlement to the conflict. Nevertheless, peace talks held over a three-month period from December 1955 failed, not least because of the strong stance taken by British-backed Malayan representatives such as Tunku Abdul Rahman, who would only consider an unconditional surrender by the guerrillas.
When Malaya became an independent federation in August 1957 with Tunku Abdul Rahman as Prime Minister, the avowed anti-colonialism of the communist cause became meaningless. Indeed, the new government was now able to call the struggle against the guerrillas ‘the People’s War.’ The struggle itself was effectively over by 1958 when the last significant group of guerrillas still at large in Malaya surrendered at Telok Anson in Perak, and others fled north into the remote areas near – and across – the border with Thailand. The Malayan government did not, however, declare an end to the State of Emergency until 31 July 1960.  By that time 6,700 guerrillas, 1,800 Malayan and Commonwealth troops, and more than 3,000 civilians had lost their lives in the conflict.
‘Malaya part of ‘global pattern’ says Mr Menzies’. This front page from The Canberra Times outlines Prime Minister Menzies response to the Malayan Emergency and makes very clear the links he drew between the situation Malaya and the wider Cold-War. The communist threat was one that Menzies used to his electoral advantage during this period. The Canberra Times, 31 May, 1950. [Reproduced with permission of The Canberra Times]
View map showing Malaya in 1950, two years after the outbreak of the Emergency.
2009 Australian involvement in South-East Asian Conflicts
Department of Veterans' Affairs
Board of Studies NSW
Privacy
Admin
Disclaimer
Copyright