Home – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
Imagine a world in which every single human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge. That’s our commitment.
The nonprofit Wikimedia Foundation provides the essential infrastructure for free knowledge. We host Wikipedia, the free online encyclopedia, created, edited, and verified by volunteers around the world, as well as many other vital community projects. All of which is made possible thanks to donations from individuals like you. We welcome anyone who shares our vision to join us in collecting and sharing knowledge that fully represents human diversity.
Protect and sustain Wikipedia
Donate Now
Donations are secure
Englishالعربية中文FrançaisРусскийEspañolDeutsch
1
Wikimedia projects belong to everyone
You made it. It is yours to use. For free. That means you can use it, adapt it, or share what you find on Wikimedia sites. Just do not write your own bio, or copy/paste it into your homework.
2
We respect your data and privacy
We do not sell your email address or any of your personal information to third parties. More information about our privacy practices are available at the Wikimedia Foundation privacy policy, donor privacy policy, and data retention guidelines.
3
People like you keep Wikipedia accurate
Readers verify the facts. Articles are collaboratively created and edited by a community of volunteers using reliable sources, so no single person or company owns a Wikipedia article. The Wikimedia Foundation does not write or edit, but you and everyone you know can help.
4
Not all wikis are Wikimedia
The word “wiki” refers to a website built using collaborative editing software. Projects with no past or existing affiliation with Wikipedia or the Wikimedia Foundation, such as Wikileaks and wikiHow, also use the term. Although these sites also use “wiki” in their name, they have nothing to do with Wikimedia.
300,000+
editors contribute to Wikimedia projects every month
Tweet this
90+ million
media files on Wikimedia Commons and counting
Tweet this
1.7+ billion
unique devices access Wikimedia projects every month
Tweet this
ResearchWe conduct our own research and partner with researchers worldwide to address change in society and technology.More about research
TechnologyFrom site reliability to machine learning, our open-source technology makes Wikipedia faster, more reliable, and more accessible worldwide.More about technology
AdvocacyWe fight to protect everyone’s right to access free and open knowledge.More about advocacy
Collaborative projects are the core of the Wikimedia movement
Our volunteers build tools, share photos, write articles, and are working to connect all the knowledge that exists.
See all projects
Wikipedia
Free encyclopedia written in over 300 languages by volunteers around the world.
Visit Wikipedia
Wikimedia Commons
The world’s largest free-to-use-library of illustrations, photos, drawings, videos and music.
Visit Wikimedia Commons
 
See what we have been up to
 
Wikimania 2023 in Singapore centers on diversity, collaboration, and the future of free knowledge
Events Press Release Singapore Wikimania 
In its eighteenth edition, Wikimania, the flagship annual conference that celebrates Wikimedia projects like Wikipedia and the volunteers who make them possible, is set to take place in Singapore.
10 August 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI
Blog Post Equity Technology Wikipedia 
If there was a generative artificial intelligence system that could, on its own, write all the information contained in Wikipedia, would it be the same as Wikipedia today?
12 July 2023
By Selena Deckelmann 
Read more
Wikimedians are heroes of free knowledge
Arminé Aghayan
Editor since 2013, Wikimedia community
Emily Temple-Wood
Editor since 2007, Wikimedia community
Christine Meyer
Editor since 2007, Wikimedia community
Throughout history, knowledge has been controlled by a powerful few. Wikipedia needs knowledge from all languages and cultures. The internet has become the default for accessing information—women, people of color, and the global south remain underrepresented. We invite you to help correct history.
Join the movement
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
Photo credits
 
Wikimania 2023 Singapore Banner
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Illustrated by Adien Gunarta and Naila Rahmah
CC0 1.0
 
AI Blog header 02
Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Armine Aghayan
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Victor Grigas
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Emily Temple-Wood at Wikimania 2014
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Victor Grigas/Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Sesame Street Spaghetti Space Chase
Walter Lim from Singapore
CC BY 2.0
 
Set Knowledge Free mural illustration
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Tomi Um / Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia Conference 2017
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jason Krüger/Wikimedia Deutschland e.V.
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Papaul_Tshibamba-3
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Victor Grigas
CC BY SA 3.0
 
SOPA protest in Midtown NYC
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Zachary McCune
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikipedia logo
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Nohat; Paullusmagnus; Wikimedia
CC-BY-SA 3.0
 
Wikimedia Commons logo
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Reidab; User:Grunt; 3247
Public domain
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.