Building Information Modeling Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Building Information Modeling41,501 FollowersRecent papers in Building Information ModelingTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleEcosystem biomimetics for resource use optimization in buildingsAn ecomimetic method is developed as an innovative and transdisciplinary design approach rooted in the field of biomimetics. This new method emulates the interrelated complexity of the parts of an ecosystem with the intent to design... moreAn ecomimetic method is developed as an innovative and transdisciplinary design approach rooted in the field of biomimetics. This new method emulates the interrelated complexity of the parts of an ecosystem with the intent to design buildings that are more efficient, effective and holistic. Ecomimetics refers to the design of buildings that mimic ecosystem processes and functions. This approach provides potential opportunities for climate change adaptation and mitigation by optimizing the use of resources in buildings. One challenge to the application of ecomimetics in architecture is the lack of systematic methods supported by scientific research, which may prevent development in this field. A theoretical basis and the initial development of an ecomimetic design method is presented, with a description of each step of the design process. Ecological systems are selected for functional properties that match architectural design goals, and then design tools are used to abstract and transfer those properties to architectural systems. The design tools integrated in the method are from the fields of ecological engineering, systems dynamics and architecture. The case of the Eastgate Center in Harare, Zimbabwe, is used to illustrate the method.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aaron Sprecher•  6  Machine Learning, Cybernetics, Building Information Modeling, Digital ArchitectureThe Benefits of BIM for the Life Cycle Reduction of Carbon in Building ProjectsBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) has been implemented throughout the UK for all types of building projects. Most recently is its adoption for the design and management of low carbon buildings. The purpose of this research paper is to... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) has been implemented throughout the UK for all types of building projects. Most recently is its adoption for the design and management of low carbon buildings. The purpose of this research paper is to identify the most found benefits with this practice and evaluate how BIM can help reduce the carbon output of buildings. Case studies from across the UK found through a number of literature sources have been used in the study. A two stage assessment model has been created in which positive BIM benefits and incorporated environmental features from each case are scored to produce the results. The most commonly identified benefit was quality which coincides with the development of a low carbon building having to have assurance and control of the building performance and an overall excellent finish quality. The outcome of the research found that BIM plays a key role in aiding the development of low carbon buildings yet further study is required as a few factors in the method influenced the results.Save to LibraryDownloadby Steven Moffat•  5  Case Study Research, Sustainable Building Design, Building Information Modeling, Passive House Design301in.DE BIM Reifegrad MatrixBIM Excellence ist ein forschungs-basierter Ansatz, um die Leistungsfähigkeit einzelner Personen, Organisationen und Projektteams zu bewerten und zu verbessern. Die BIMe Initiative organisiert alle Forschungsaktivitäten in Knowledge Sets,... moreBIM Excellence ist ein forschungs-basierter Ansatz, um die Leistungsfähigkeit einzelner Personen, Organisationen und Projektteams zu bewerten und zu verbessern. Die BIMe Initiative organisiert alle Forschungsaktivitäten in Knowledge Sets, welche durch ein Internationales Forschungsnetzwerk entwickelt wurden. Das BIm³ besitzt zwei Achsen - BIM Fähigkeiten Sets und den BIM Reifegrad Index. Um von BIm³ zu profitieren, ist es zuerst wichtig, die Konzepte der BIM Fähigkeiten und BIM Reifegrade zu überblickenSave to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  13  Construction Technology, Construction Management, Lean Construction, BIM (Architecture)Building Information Modeling: Why? What? How?Building Information Modeling is based on the idea of the continuous use of digital building models throughout the entire lifecycle of a built facility, starting from the early conceptual design and detailed design phases, to the... moreBuilding Information Modeling is based on the idea of the continuoususe of digital building models throughout the entire lifecycle of a builtfacility, starting from the early conceptual design and detailed designphases, to the construction phase, and the long phase of operation.BIM significantly improves information flow between stakeholdersinvolved at all stages, resulting in an increase in efficiency by reducingthe laborious and error-prone manual re-entering of information thatdominates conventional paper-based workflows. Thanks to its manyadvantages, BIM is already practiced in many construction projectsthroughout the entire world. However, the fragmented nature of theconstruction industry still impedes its more widespread use. Governmentinitiatives around the world play an important role in increasing BIMadoption: as the largest client of the construction industry in manycountries, the state has the power to significantly change its workpractices. This chapter discusses the motivation for applying BIM, offersa detailed definition of BIM along with an overview of typical use cases,describes the common BIM maturity grades and reports on BIM adoptionlevels in various countries around the globe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andre Borrmann•Building Information ModelingMacro-BIM adoption: Conceptual structuresBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) concepts and workflows continue to proliferate within organisations, through project teams, and across the whole construction industry. However, both BIM implementation and BIM diffusion are yet to be... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) concepts and workflows continue to proliferate within organisations, through project teams, and across the whole construction industry. However, both BIM implementation and BIM diffusion are yet to be reliably assessed at market scale. Insufficient research has been conducted to date towards identifying the conceptual structures that would explain and encourage large-scale BIM adoption. This paper introduces a number of macro-adoption models, matrices and charts (Fig. 1). These models can be used to systematically assess BIM adoption across markets, and inform the structured development of country-specific BIM adoption policies.This research is published in two complementary papers combining conceptual structures with data collected from experts across a number of countries. The first paper “Macro-BIM adoption: conceptual structures” delimits the terms used, reviews applicable diffusion models, and clarifies the research methodology. It then introduces five new conceptual constructs for assessing macro-BIM adoption and informing the development of market-scale BIM diffusion policies. The second paper “Macro-BIM adoption: comparative market analysis” employs these concepts and tools to evaluate BIM adoption and analyse BIM diffusion policies across a number of countries. Using online questionnaires and structured interviews, it applies the models, refines the conceptual tools and develops additional assessment metrics. The two papers are complementary and primarily intended to assist policy makers and domain researchers to analyse, develop and improve BIM diffusion policies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  32  Assessment, Performance Studies, Diffusion of Innovations, Performance ManagementBIM Terimleri Sözlüğü -1Save to LibraryDownloadby Ümit Işıkdağ and +1Dursun CAPKIN•  2  BIM (Architecture), Building Information ModelingBuilding Information Modeling: analyzing noteworthy publications of eight countries using a knowledge content taxonomyBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) tools and workflows have the potential to significantly improve the efficiency of design, construction and operation activities. Numerous BIM deliverables and their respective requirements have been... moreBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) tools and workflows have the potential to significantly improve the efficiency of design, construction and operation activities. Numerous BIM deliverables and their respective requirements have been widely discussed by industry stakeholders. This is evidenced by the intensity of online communications surrounding BIM topics and the accelerating availability of noteworthy BIM publications (NBP)s. NBPs are publically-available industry documents incorporating guidelines, protocols and requirements focusing on BIM deliverables and workflows. These publications are the product of various governmental bodies, industry associations, communities of practice and research institutions, intended to facilitate BIM adoption, and realize BIM’s value-adding potential. A specialized taxonomy is employed to analyze 57 noteworthy BIM publications from across eight countries selected for their active BIM scene. The BIM knowledge content (BKC) taxonomy includes three knowledge content clusters (guides, protocols and mandates) subdivided into 18 knowledge content labels (e.g. report, manual, and contract). Ten of these content labels are used to analyze and compare publications from Australia, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Preliminary content analysis is then performed which provides insight into the availability and distribution of BIM knowledge within noteworthy BIM publications. The analysis identifies knowledge gaps within publications and highlights opportunities for future research and complementary publication efforts. This chapter contributes to organizing BIM knowledge as contained within numerous noteworthy BIM publications and – by that - facilitates targeted access to their content. It provides a knowledge repository for construction industry stakeholder’s to utilize during BIM implementation and a research base for investigators seeking to identify and address knowledge gaps across the BIM domain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  23  Knowledge Management, Knowledge Models, Construction Technology, Construction ManagementBuilding Information Modeling Türkçe AnlatımBu yazıda Yapı Bilgi Modellemesi ile ilgili tüm sorulara cevap bulabilir, sistem hakkında detaylı bilgiye ulaşabilirsiniz.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hakan Yıldır•  11  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM EducationMeasuring BIM performance: Five metricsThe term Building Information Modelling (BIM) refers to an expansive knowledge domain within the design, construction and operation (DCO) industry. The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can... moreThe term Building Information Modelling (BIM) refers to an expansive knowledge domain within the design, construction and operation (DCO) industry. The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can be met through a systematic research and delivery framework spawning a set of performance assessment and improvement metrics. This article identifies five complementary components specifically developed to enable such assessment: (i) BIM capability stages representing transformational milestones along the implementation continuum; (ii) BIM maturity levels representing the quality, predictability and variability within BIM stages; (iii) BIM competencies representing incremental progressions towards and improvements within BIM stages; (iv) Organizational Scales representing the diversity of markets, disciplines and company sizes; and (v) Granularity Levels enabling highly targeted yet flexible performance analyses ranging from informal self-assessment to high-detail, formal organizational audits. This article explores these complementary components and positions them as a systematic method to understand BIM performance and to enable its assessment and improvement. A flowchart of the contents of this article is provided.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Willy Sher•  27  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), InteroperabilityBuilding Information Modelling: conceptual constructs and performance improvement tools (PhD Thesis)Building Information Modelling (BIM) is a set of technologies, processes and policies enabling multiple stakeholders to collaboratively design, construct and operate a facility. There are numerous challenges attributed to BIM adoption by... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a set of technologies, processes and policies enabling multiple stakeholders to collaboratively design, construct and operate a facility.There are numerous challenges attributed to BIM adoption by industry and academia. These represent a number of knowledge gaps each warranting a focused investigation by domain researchers. This study does not isolate a single gap to address but espouses a holistic view of the knowledge problem at hand. It contributes to the discussion a set of conceptual constructs that clarify the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain. It also introduces a number of practicable knowledge tools to facilitate BIM learning, assessment and performance improvement. This study is delivered through complementary papers and appendices to answer two primary research questions. The first explores the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain whilst the second probes how these knowledge structures can be used to facilitate the measurement and improvement of BIM performance across the construction industry.To address the first question, the study identifies conceptual clusters underlying the BIM domain, develops descriptive taxonomies of these clusters, exposes some of their conceptual relationships, and then delivers a representative BIM framework. The BIM framework is composed of three-axes which represent the main knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain and support the development of functional conceptual models.To address the second question, BIM framework structures are extended through additional concepts and tools to facilitate BIM performance assessment and development of individuals, organizations and teams. These additional concepts include competency sets, assessment workflows and measurement tools which can be used to assess and improve the BIM performance of industry stakeholders.In addressing these research questions, a pragmatic approach to research design based on available literature and applicable theories has been adopted. By combining several research strategies, paradigms and methods, this study (1) generates several new conceptual structures (e.g. frameworks, models and taxonomies) which collectively clarify the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain; and (2) develops a set of workflows and tools that facilitate BIM assessment, learning and performance improvement.This study delivers an extendable knowledge structure upon which to build a host of BIM performance improvement initiatives and tools. As a set of complementary papers and appendices, the study presents a rich, unified yet multi-layered environment of conceptual constructs and practicable tools; supported by a common framework, a domain ontology and simplified visual representations. Individually, each paper introduces a new framework part or solidifies a previous one. Collectively, the papers form a cohesive knowledge engine that generates assessment systems, learning modules and performance improvement tools.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Willy Sher•  27  Management Information Systems, Knowledge Models, Construction Management, Performance Based Assessment (Education)IFC-based cut & bent rebar supply chain integrationDespite the growing interest towards the Building Information Modelling (BIM), its widespread use in the entire life cycle of construction products is still incipient. In most of the cases, BIM is not properly used, in an integrated... moreDespite the growing interest towards the Building Information Modelling (BIM), its widespread use in the entire life cycle of construction products is still incipient. In most of the cases, BIM is not properly used, in an integrated manner, with suppliers and manufacturers of custom building components. The BIM-based digital fabrication of custom building components should be one of the main beneficiaries in changing its old processes to embrace BIM. This fact could be related to the lack of solutions that allow the effective reuse of information contained in the BIM model, especially in supply chains arrangement wherein distinct stakeholders provide key information. This is the case of the Brazilian cut & bent reinforcing bar supply chain in which the interface between the rebar fabricator and the engineering firm are carried out by a General Contractor. Although the available standards allow the exchange of reinforcement data from the design to the fabricator&#39;s automated CNC-c...Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabiano Rogerio Corrêa•  7  Engineering, Building Information Modeling, Supply Chain, Reinforced Concrete StructuresDevelopment of an Integrated Construction Management System for Building EstimationProject management are still depending on manual exchange of information based on paper documents. Where design drawings drafting by computer-aided design (CAD), but the data needed by project management software can not be extracted... moreProject management are still depending on manual exchange of information based on paper documents. Where design drawings drafting by computer-aided design (CAD), but the data needed by project management software can not be extracted directly from CAD, and must be manually entered by the user. The process of calculation and collection of information from drawings and enter in the project management software needs effort and time with the possibility of errors in the transfer and enter of information. This research presents an integrated computer system for building projects where the extraction and import quantities, through the interpretation of AutoCAD drawing with MS Access database of unit costs and productivities for the pricing and duration of tasks, then exported to MS Project and MS Excel. The system was developed by using Visual Basic and ActiveX automation technology for combining the above software. The system, also, can calculate quantities of materials. The system includes digitizer (on-screen takeoff) calculates the lengths and areas of the drawings to which the form of an image and scanned. The integrated system has been applied to case study, a storages building for hospital 260 beds. The results proved the effectiveness of the system for the conversion of information from the graphical form dwg to numerical formulas xlcx / xlc and mpp can be handled easily pleased and software are covered.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ihab Al-Qazzaz•  6  Construction Management, Computer Aided Design, Building Information Modeling, Computer-IntegratedMethodological Experimentation.Proposal of a Datasheet Template for FM Activities in the BIM EnvironmentThe aim of this chapter is to investigate a possible implementation of the existing BIM-Objects Information Requirements and data standards in relation to information need of FM processes. In order to address this topic, it is presented... moreThe aim of this chapter is to investigate a possible implementation of theexisting BIM-Objects Information Requirements and data standards in relation toinformation need of FM processes. In order to address this topic, it is presented theoutput of a methodological experimentation carried out at Politecnico di Milanowith the aim of defining a datasheet template enabling information exchange tosupport FM activities in a BIM environment. The proposed data schema togetherwith its protocol compilation shall support FM activities by defining a dataset to beincluded in model elements as necessary to multiple activities which characterizesfacility management phase (i.e. maintenance scheduling, space management, spareparts management, etc.). Ongoing research is showing some areas of possibleintegration of the protocol/data format with FM activities, such as the developmentof a maintenance manual starting from the design and construction information asprovided by the BIM model. The developed datasheet template is also allowingsome experimentation concerning the implementation of existing interoperableoverlays between BIM software and Facilities Information Systems.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marcella M . Bonanomi•  3  Information Management, Facility Management, Building Information ModelingVisualization in Building Information Modelling (BIM) for Interior Design Education: A Case Study at Sunway UniversityThe utilization of Building Information Modelling (BIM) technology has revolutionized the architecture and interior design industry globally in recent years. This technology promotes a more efficient approach in the design visualization... moreThe utilization of Building Information Modelling (BIM) technology has revolutionized the architecture and interior design industry globally in recent years. This technology promotes a more efficient approach in the design visualization process and it provides enhancement of productivity. Similar to other developing countries, the employment of BIM in Malaysia has presented new challenges to both the industry practice and educational institutions. The curriculums of build environment courses offered in universities throughout the world have been restructured to allow the integration of BIM. However its adoption in Malaysian higher education has been considered slow. This paper discusses on the introduction of BIM through the usage of Autodesk Revit software tool for visualization purposes to the diploma in interior design students' project at Sunway University. The research was focused on the process of parametric tools techniques used in Revit to create 3D models and the features that allow BIM to interoperate with other 3D applications. Case study methodology was used and information were gathered through variety of data sources including; observation, assessment and interview series. The result showed that although BIM has aided the students in terms of time efficiency in producing visualization, there are limitations in design freedom as well as the needs for students to be familiar with other 3D applications beforehand. Findings from this research will be among the important considerations to be taken in developing BIM and Revit as an independent module into the academic curriculum of Diploma and Degree courses in Interior Design at Sunway University.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hafez Zainudin•  2  Building Information Modeling, Interior Design (Architecture)Identifying and analyzing BIM specialist roles using a competency-based approachSave to LibraryDownloadby Nur Liyana Abd Raoff•  6  Construction Technology, Construction Management, Innovation In Built Environment, Building Information ModelingUNIVERSITI TEKNOLOGI MARA FINAL EXAMINATION COURSE COURSE CODE EXAMINATION TIME STRUCTURAL THEORIES AND APPLICATIONS DO NOT TURN THIS PAGE UNTIL YOU ARE TOLD TO DO SO This examination paper consists of 4 printed pagesSave to LibraryDownloadby Nur Abdullah•Building Information ModelingCosts and benefits of using passive cooling techniques in Egyptian dwellingsThis study directs attention towards the New Cairo community, which is one of the new urban settlements that have been developed around Cairo, Egypt. People recently have tended to install or extend mechanical cooling equipment in their... moreThis study directs attention towards the New Cairo community, which is one of the new urban settlements that have been developed around Cairo, Egypt. People recently have tended to install or extend mechanical cooling equipment in their dwellings in order to overcome the problem of thermal discomfort from overheating. Although the mechanical cooling significantly raises utilities bills, it is still the preferred choice for the majority of the residents. The lack of awareness about the advantages of Passive Cooling Techniques (PCT), in addition to uncertain about their costs and effectiveness, has made PCT unpopular options for both designers and owners. This study investigates the costs and benefits of two PCT, which include the influence of the thermal transmittance of the walls (U-value), and the attachment of solar shading devices. The Whole Life Cycle Costing (WLCC) evaluation method is used to estimate the payback period of applying the PCT. The PCT were simulated using the dyn...Save to Libraryby Wael Sheta•  20  Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Energy Economics, Environmental EconomicsConstruction Waste Reduction Through BIM-Based Site Management ApproachSave to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Kofi  Agyekum•  8  Business, Engineering, Construction Management, Sustainable Building DesignPeter Russell | Beyond 2020: Scenarios for a Digital FutureLecture at the University of Colorado at Boulder: Architect’s roles and profiles will need to change in order to meet the changing nature of our society, the technologies driving it and the expectations of our clients. Professor Peter... moreLecture at the University of Colorado at Boulder:Architect’s roles and profiles will need to change in order to meet the changing nature of our society, the technologies driving it and the expectations of our clients. Professor Peter Russell describes the impact of technologies on Architecture as an object, a profession, a process, a business and as a field of study.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Russell•  11  Future Studies, Architecture, CAAD, BIM (Architecture)Development of an Augmented Reality environment for the assembly of a precast wood-frame wall using the BIM modelThis article presents the development of an Augmented Reality (AR) application to assist in the assembly of a precast wood-frame wall, based on the BIM model of the wall execution sequence. The research study used the Design Science... moreThis article presents the development of an Augmented Reality (AR) application to assist in the assembly of a precast wood-frame wall, based on the BIM model of the wall execution sequence. The research study used the Design Science Research approach and its aim was to develop an AR application named “montAR” (version 2.0). This application offers a tutorial that combines a wall model visualized in AR in actual scale, followed by an audio with step-by-step instructions of the assembly process. Its applicability was simulated in a laboratory with the participation of volunteers (architecture and engineering students). Two visualization gadgets were used and compared: smartphones and smart glasses. The potentialities and difficulties of the use of the AR system were assessed through a questionnaire answered by the participants and through direct observation and result analysis by the researchers. The results demonstrated the potential of using AR for precast wall assembly. From a technological innovation perspective, this study emphasizes the potential use of AR as a technology suitable for training and for construction quality control.Save to LibraryDownloadby Márcio M Fabricio and +2Ana Regina M CuperschmidMarina Grachet•  4  Building Information Modeling, Arquitetura e Urbanismo, Augmented and Virtual Reality for Civil and Building Engineering, Wood-framed WallsA federated approach for interoperating aec/fm ontologiesOver the last few years, the benefits of applying ontologies (semantic graph modelling) for Architecture, Engineering, Construction and Facility Management (AEC/FM) industry have been recognized by several researchers and industry... moreOver the last few years, the benefits of applying ontologies (semantic graph modelling) for Architecture, Engineering, Construction and Facility Management (AEC/FM) industry have been recognized by several researchers and industry stakeholders. One of the main motivations is because it eases AEC data manipulation and representation. However, a research question that still remains open is how to take advantage of semantic web technologies to interoperate the AEC/FM and other ontologies in a flexible and dynamical way in order to solve data structure heterogeneity problem. Because of this, we propose in this paper to apply a rule-based federated architecture to answer this research question.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ana Roxin•  6  Building Information Modeling, Semantic Interoperability, Rule-Based Systems, AECIndoor Air-Temperature Forecast for Energy-Efficient Management in Smart BuildingsIn the last few years, the reduction of energy consumption and pollution became mandatory. It became also a common goal of many countries. Only in Europe, the building sector is responsible for the total 40% of energy consumption and 36%... moreIn the last few years, the reduction of energy consumption and pollution became mandatory. It became also a common goal of many countries. Only in Europe, the building sector is responsible for the total 40% of energy consumption and 36% of CO2 pollution. Therefore, new control policies based on the forecast of buildings energy behaviors can be developed to reduce energy waste (i.e. policies for Demand Response and Demand Side Management). This paper discusses an innovative methodology for smart building indoor air-temperature forecasting. This methodology is based on a Non-linear Autoregressive neural network. This neural network has been trained and validated with a dataset consisting of six years indoor air-temperature values of a building demonstrator. In detail, we have studied three characterizing rooms and the whole building. Experimental results of energy prediction are presented and discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giansalvo Cirrincione•  19  Forecasting, Building Information Modeling, Forecasting and Prediction Tools, Demand ResponsePerformance Evaluation of the Design Process Management Practices: The VDC Scorecard and Some Brazilian Case StudiesThe VDC Scorecard is a method for assessing the maturity of collaborative use of Virtual Design and Construction/Building Information Modeling (VDC/BIM) practices of the AEC industry. Its reasoning is based on the use of multidisciplinary... moreThe VDC Scorecard is a method for assessing the maturity of collaborative use of Virtual Design and Construction/Building Information Modeling (VDC/BIM) practices of the AEC industry. Its reasoning is based on the use of multidisciplinary models for holistic analysis of the performance of products, organization and processes and social methods to achieve business objectives. The VDC Scorecard was created to provide AEC professionals with a holistic, quantitative, practical and adaptive approach to evaluate and track the VDC/BIM performance. The scoring covers the four major Areas of VDC, Planning, Adoption, Technology and Performance, and the overall score is measured on a percentage scale that reflects the project performance relative to the industry’s practice. However, in many countries the VDC/BIM practices are in a not so fast dissemination and they are in need of appropriate methods for measuring and process performance analysis that address the peculiarities of a national or ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergio Scheer•  6  Building Information Modeling, BIM Performance Measurement, Virtual Design and Construction, BIM MaturityAn Inquiry into the Life Cycle of Systems of Inner Walls: Comparison of Masonry and DrywallSave to LibraryDownloadby Dieter Boer•  13  Materials Engineering, Building Information Modeling, Life Cycle Assessment, Seismic Retrofitting of Historical Masonry BuildingsAN INVESTIGATION INTO THE IMPACT OF COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT ON PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN THE KENYAN CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRYBy virtue of the magnitude, complexity, and nature of the works it executes, the construction industry is a major consumer of capital goods. Improving the communication structure and information/data management systems however still... moreBy virtue of the magnitude, complexity, and nature of the works it executes, the construction industry is a major consumer of capital goods. Improving the communication structure and information/data management systems however still remains a chronic challenge facing it in many countries worldwide. Apart from advances made by some contractors and firms to devise mechanisms for communication and to manage information, studies across the world revealthat construction projects are hardly completed within budget. The Kenyan construction industry has not been spared either. This background can be considered unhealthy for an industry whose capital consumption is heavy and concurrent cost and time overruns spell disastrous financial consequences on the investor.The construction industry is estimated to be contributing up to over 60% of the gross formation in Kenya. According to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (2018), construction sector in Kenya recorded a growth of 9.5% coming fourth after tax revenue, real estate, and transport & storage. The contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was estimated at 5.8% in 2017 up from 5 % in 2016. The increased investment in the housing and infrastructure development needs to be met with efficiency in the communication and the management of information meant for it as well as ensuring the value for money to the client in terms of reduced delays, profitability and customer satisfaction. There’s, therefore, need for effective and efficient communication systems. This study explored communication structures and information management systems employed by contractors and construction firms in building projects and also investigated the challenges encountered in managing the data. It also sought to find out the impact of, and influence the communication structures adopted have on the information management systems in construction projects focusing on the key players in their delivery as well as the overall influence this has on the performance of the projects. The descriptive research design was employed, making use of questionnaires to collect data from Quantity Surveying and Architectural firms within Nairobi, Kenya to establish the situation as is on the ground. Data collected was analyzed based on a conceptual framework to establish the relationship and interrelationships of the independent variables in communication and information management on the dependent variable which for the case of this research was project performance. Comparative and cor-relational surveys were thus utilized, analysis was done on statistical packages and presentation done in tables, reports, and charts.A research project thesis submitted to the Construction Management Department in partial fulfillment of the requirement for the award of a Degree in Bachelor of Quantity Surveying at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology.Save to LibraryDownloadby A.M Frank•  8  Engineering, Management Information Systems, Architecture, Project ManagementImproving the accuracy of BIM-based quantity takeoff for compound elementsQuantity takeoff based on Building Information Modeling (BIM) is a faster and more reliable method than the traditional 2D-based quantity takeoff approach. However, the quality of BIM models affects the accuracy of the extracted... moreQuantity takeoff based on Building Information Modeling (BIM) is a faster and more reliable method than the traditional 2D-based quantity takeoff approach. However, the quality of BIM models affects the accuracy of the extracted quantities. Incomplete details and inappropriate modeling methods cause deviations in extracted quantities. Compound elements, such as walls and floors, always face this issue because they contain multiple material layers, which can have different sizes. In order to obtain accurate quantity takeoffs of these layers, each compound element layer that is composed of a core layer and other layers must be created according to the actual construction. Nevertheless, this is a time-consuming and error-prone solution. Furthermore, it can be difficult to edit a model in the future if its design is not finalized. This study proposes a method to improve the accuracy of the extracted quantities of compound elements from BIM models that are incomplete or incorrect by using information from BIM-based clash detection to eliminate excess quantities and add missing quantities. The proposed method is called the “BIM-based compound element quantity takeoff improvement” (BCEQTI) method. The BCEQTI method is then validated through four case studies. With this method, accurate material quantities can be delivered, and the time used to edit the BIM models is saved. Furthermore, it can be applied to other building elements that have similar issues.Save to LibraryDownloadby Chavanont Khosakitchalert•  9  Quantity Surveying, BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)Light Pipes Performance Prediction: inter model and experimental confrontation on vertical circular light-guidesThe light pipes are innovative devices able to transport and distribute natural light without heat transfer in dark rooms. There are a lot of natural lighting applications able to predict the behaviour of light in a room through a... moreThe light pipes are innovative devices able to transport and distribute natural light without heat transfer in dark rooms. There are a lot of natural lighting applications able to predict the behaviour of light in a room through a traditional opening. Only few of them are able to model complex systems such as daylight guidance systems. Added to this, they seem to provide disparate and inconsistent results with respect to the actual performance of light pipes. The purpose of this publication is to present the approach undertaken and the results obtained to highlight the problem. To do this, a survey of the different programs has been carried out internationally to model tubular devices. Then, an inter-software comparative analysis was implemented for some of the applications listed. In order to assess the accuracy of numerical results, the results of an experiment - 1:1 scale and in real weather conditions - were used as references to evaluate the chosen applications. We saw that the various selected programs tend to overestimate or underestimate the real phenomenon. The use of an experimental database permitted to put forward the most efficient applications. These results support the future goal to develop a new model. Future prospects of our study that can emerge are mainly based on the introduction of a new model for predicting the performance of light pipes and its integration in two software products developed within laboratory: CODYRUN (a multi-zone software integrating thermal building simulation, airflow transfers, lighting and pollutants) and HEMERA (a daylighting analysis software).Save to LibraryDownloadby Malet-Damour Bruno and +1Milorad Bojic•  10  Sustainable Building Design, Building Information Modeling, Building Energy Simulation, Building Integrated Solar Energy TechnologiesEnergy modeling for estimation of indoor temperature of the building on the BIM platformIn today's life, it's necessary to pay attention to saving energy. There are a lot of research and studies in this area to minimize the potential for energy losses. Building Information Modeling (BIM) has been considered as a coordinated... moreIn today's life, it's necessary to pay attention to saving energy. There are a lot of research and studies in this area to minimize the potential for energy losses. Building Information Modeling (BIM) has been considered as a coordinated model for nearly two decades. BIM is a utility software program that integrates the building information required in the building including a three-dimensional architecture, a map of the electrical installations, etc., and, with the intelligence it is predicted, can provide the necessary offers, time and order of execution to the building engineer, and if, for some reason, a part of the map is changed in any case, report the bugs that arise in the next steps. One of the issues that can be solved by BIM as a powerful database is energy issues. The first step for maintaining energy is to find a way to reduce consumption and save money. In fact, saving energy means less cost, less fuel and less pollution. Hence, we need to look for the necessary infrastructure to reduce the use and distribute optimal energy. This thesis aims to develop the methodology of one of the articles (Gerrish et al. method) by proposing a new and innovative design using thermal energy optimization and temperature estimates obtained from the EM software, and predict the best location for heating and cooling appliances. In this study, all the information about one of the units of the Toos Arman Star Apartment Hotel project located on Navvab Safavi Avenue in Mashhad, near Imam Reza Shrine (PBUH), was obtained from this project, and was modeled on BIM software. Then, the key parameters of the building were investigated and all of them were extracted from the BIM software. In the following, EM was investigated using the energy simulation software. Validation was also done by comparing the simulation results and the actual results. For optimization, two optimization methods of genetic algorithm (GA) and Taguchi method was used to determine the optimal location of cooling devices. In GA, we tried to maximize the satisfaction of building residents by defining the fitness function as approaching the thermal comfort point of 25℃. The results of GA and Taguchi optimizations were introduced into the energy simulation software, and again, EM was performed using determined critical points. Since the proposed topic of this thesis is new and so far no action has been taken to determine the best location for the installation of heating and cooling appliances, the EM optimization result of GA was compared with the EM result of two Signal-to-Noise Ratio analysis (SNR) and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) of the Taguchi method and EM result of the unit studied.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zahra Pezeshki•  16  Heat Transfer, Building Information Modeling, Optimization techniques, Operations research and OptimizationAn application of CIM Models in Urban design and Urban management: the case of Lisbon citySave to LibraryDownloadby Sónia Ildefonso•  4  Urban management, Building Information Modeling, Procedural Modeling, City Information ModelingAECOM, Тематическое исследование - Реализация Среды общих данных (CDE): преимущества, проблемы и соображения по использованию, 2018Данный документ является авторским переводом тематического исследования международной Компании AECOM, посвященного вопросам выбора, закупки и внедрения Среды общих данных (Common Data Environment; CDE) для обеспечения внедрения технологии... moreДанный документ является авторским переводом тематического исследования международной Компании AECOM, посвященного вопросам выбора, закупки и внедрения Среды общих данных (Common Data Environment; CDE) для обеспечения внедрения технологии BIM и перехода к цифровым решениям, инициируемых Правительством ШотландииSave to LibraryDownloadby Мария Широкова•  9  Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Building and Infrastructure Maintenance Management, BIM-technologyIntegrating BIM and GIS to improve the visual monitoring of construction supply chain managementSave to LibraryDownloadby Javier Irizarry•  16  Engineering, Computer Science, Construction Management, LogisticsBuilding Information Modelling Technological Innovations in Industrialised Building Systems Cost EstimationThe paradigm shift in construction cost estimation is attributed to technological innovations in the spheres of building information modelling (BIM) and industrialised building systems (IBS). Majority of construction projects experience... moreThe paradigm shift in construction cost estimation is attributed to technological innovations in the spheres of building information modelling (BIM) and industrialised building systems (IBS). Majority of construction projects experience cost overruns which affect project objectives. The outcome of cost overruns invariably leads to disputes and further delays. Similarly, cost estimators resistance to overcoming the inertia to leap from traditional estimation methods to advanced methods further exacerbates the issues of cost estimation. This paper aims at comparing cost estimate between traditional cost estimation and advanced cost estimation. Data was collected via questionnaire from registered quantity surveying companies with the Board of Quantity Surveying Malaysia (BQSM). Subsequently, real time simulation was carried out on a sample IBS project using Autodesk Revit and Navisworks to compare cost estimates. The results revealed that BIM is accurate than bill of quantity (BOQ) as this difference results in a critical factor for large construction projects. The study was limited in terms of cost standard and database in Autodesk Navisworks. Future research can improve on the quantity coding for BIM in Malaysia.Save to Libraryby Wallace Enegbuma•  4  Computer Science, Building Information Modeling, Learning And Teaching In Higher Education, Big Data / Analytics / Data MiningAligning Project Requirements with Team Capabilities (slides with notes)Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  11  Construction Project Management, Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Competency MappingBig Data y modelos urbanos inteligentes: del Building Information Modeling al planeamiento urbano sostenibleLas zonas urbanas se han convertido hoy en día en entidades complejas multidimensionales donde habita más del 50% de la población mundial (UN-Habitat WCR, 2016). Paralelamente, el desarrollo de las ciudades presenta un aumento... moreLas zonas urbanas se han convertido hoy en día en entidades complejas multidimensionales donde habita más del 50% de la población mundial (UN-Habitat WCR, 2016). Paralelamente, el desarrollo de las ciudades presenta un aumento considerable en el rol de los datos y la información, por lo que el establecimiento de vínculos – apoyados en Big Data – entre la escala edificatoria y los modelos urbanos puede proporcionar a las administraciones un marco sólido en el que planear el crecimiento sostenible de las ciudades para las próximas décadas. Así, la recopilación de datos, su conversión a información útil y la aplicación inteligente de ésta a través del conocimiento permitirá que futuras acciones urbanas se cimienten sobre las bases más sólidas de las que podamos disponer.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alfredo Carrato and +1daniel muñoz•  5  Urban Planning, Building Information Modeling, Environmental Sustainability, Big DataAnalysis of modeling effort and impact of different levels of detail in building information modelsSave to LibraryDownloadby Asli Akcamete and +1guzide  atasoy•  14  Engineering, Modeling, Building Information Modeling, ConstructionThe use of Lean Production Principles to Improve the Building Services Coordination ProcessThis report will discuss the perceived problems associated with the current design process for a large size Mechanical, Electrical and Public Health consultant, based in the UK. In order to solve one or more of the major issues, lean... moreThis report will discuss the perceived problems associated with the current design process for a large size Mechanical, Electrical and Public Health consultant, based in the UK.In order to solve one or more of the major issues, lean production principles will be discussed to see ifany can be applied to improve the MEP design process.In order to set the scene for the main objective of the report, the theory behind lean will be discussed.In summary, what this report sets out to do is apply the theory of lean, in order to solve a problem orproblems within the MEP design process.Although the problems discussed will focus on one particular firm, in truth the discussion could be appliedto several companies of this type.Save to LibraryDownloadby Justin  Neil•  4  Lean Project Delivery, Lean Construction, Building Information Modeling, Building Services EngineeringIntegrated Practice and Architecture Education: The Evolution of a PedagogyIntegrated Practice and Integrated Project Delivery are becoming the norm in architectural practice and therefore must be addressed in architecture education. Architecture programs are also continuously facing pressure from the profession... moreIntegrated Practice and Integrated Project Delivery are becoming the norm in architectural practice and therefore must be addressed in architecture education. Architecture programs are also continuously facing pressure from the profession and the collaborative architectural organizations to integrate the profession into education.  This has been encouraged through programs such as the various NCARB awards.  However, if architecture programs do not take the lead and begin to create programs that address professional education issues, such as integrated practice, the decisions will start to be made for them. This paper is about nascent research on integrated practice being conducted in an architecture program through the design studio.  A three-week charette consisting of teams of architecture, interior design, and building construction students has been conducted for the past two years as an experiment in integrated practice and its impact on learning in architecture education. Data was collected through surveys completed by the students through five surveys conducted throughout the three week time period.  The first survey was a combination of quantitative data collection in the form of demographic information and qualitative data collection in the form of open-ended questions.  The next three surveys were spaced out at certain intervals along the length of the charette and were specifically open-ended questions.  The final survey was a reiteration of the qualitative questions from the original survey to gauge any changes in perceptions and knowledge since the administration of the first survey. This paper will discuss the final results of the data and how that will affect the formation of the integrated practice charette for the next three years of the project.  The paper will also propose best practices for using this type of project for a full semester studio, as well as for use by other architecture programs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexis Gregory•  5  Interdisciplinarity, Collaboration, Building Information Modeling, Integrated Project Delivery System (Architecture)Asset Management in a BIM EnvironmentNowadays construction projects are more and more delivered by Building Information Models instead of traditional 2D drawings. This allows for information rich projects but this information is, in many cases, accessible only for those who... moreNowadays construction projects are more and more delivered by Building Information Models instead of traditional 2D drawings. This allows for information rich projects but this information is, in many cases, accessible only for those who are able to use a BIM authoring software. In the current market, both the top levels (CEO and executives) and the low levels (on site and off site operators) of an asset or a facility management company are not able to use a BIM authoring tool, thus to use the valuable information stored in the model. Moreover, BIM models that work fine for the design stage will be of no use during the operational stage if not correctly created. A research has been carried on to cope with these problems and the preliminary results are shown in this paper. Asset managers’ work procedures and needs have been analyzed to identify what information is needed and when in the operational stage and then an IFC compliant standard has been adopted to store data. Once useful d...Save to LibraryDownloadby Mario C Dejaco•  3  Business, Building Information Modeling, Asset ManagementBuilding Information Modelling Uptake: Tool Training in NigeriaComputer Aided Design software and their kind are generally considered as Building Information Modelling (BIM) tools; moreover the sophistication level of one determines its maturity level. Education and research are the background to... moreComputer Aided Design software and their kind are generally considered as Building Information Modelling (BIM) tools; moreover the sophistication level of one determines its maturity level. Education and research are the background to innovation while training is a window to continuity in skills transfer. The BIM uptake in the developing countries is significantly lagging behind; amongst various reasons is the lack of trained professionals. Experts are evolving from the industry professionals who are first trained in the university. This study determined the capacity of Nigerian universities in providing BIM tools training for BIM adoption in Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC). The study is quantitative in nature, with the primary data collected through a structured questionnaire survey within the built environment and engineering schools of Nigerian universities. The collected data were analysed using descriptive statistics. The institutions are physically ready with ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr Mansur Hamma-adama and +1Huda Salman•  5  Computer Science, Construction Management, Building Information Modeling, Open scienceTHE EFFICACY OF INFORMAL SOCIAL NETWORKS IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY: CONSTRUCTION ARTISANS IN THE WESTERN CAPEABSTRACT Informal social networks among the construction craftworkers from various ethnic groups can give rise to barriers of entry for craftsmen and trainees. This study investigated informal social networks on three construction sites... moreABSTRACTInformal social networks among the construction craftworkers from various ethnic groups cangive rise to barriers of entry for craftsmen and trainees. This study investigated informalsocial networks on three construction sites in an ethnically diverse area, to explore how thesegive rise to economic exclusion and promote inequality of access to social economicresources such as work opportunities. Using the Social Network Analysis (SNA) method,adopting through the egocentric approach data was collected and analysed using of the socialnetwork analysis program UCINET. Findings from the three case studies showed that theprimary access to information on work opportunities was through the informal socialnetworks formed among construction artisans, foremen and construction managers. Moreover,artisans on these sites were mostly friends and neighbours with similar ethnic backgroundsstrongly suggesting that social relations facilitated the transfer of information around workopportunities. Whilst for those who are a part of these networks, the informal social networkscan be advantageous, however, they also act as barriers of entry to those who are not a part ofthese networks to work opportunities and can act as barriers to skills acquisition for those whodo not already possess craft skills. Further findings showed a strong relationship betweentrade and ethnicity. Minimal interaction was observed between different ethnic groupssuggesting a further hindrance in the transfer of information about work opportunities acrossethnic groups. To an extent government policies identify this phenomena and seek toovercome it at the level of businesses and entrepreneurs through actions such as Broad BasedBlack Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) and preferential procurement. However thefindings of this limited study suggest that social networks and the resultant social capital thatthey engender exists in all manner of forms, and within many different communities, raisingthe question of the ultimate effectiveness of such interventions.Key words: Craftsmen, Artisans, Social Networks Analysis, Work OpportunitiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Martin Lekarapa•  3  Building Information Modeling, Educational Leadership, Teacher leadership, informal social and political networks in schools, cultures and Policy development, Teaching Culture In the EFL ClassroomFacilities Management Proposal for Sunway VelocityA research proposal reviewing every possibilities of facility management.Save to LibraryDownloadby SIAK KOR  CHEW•  20  Corporate Social Responsibility, Construction Technology, Sustainable Development, ProcurementAutomation of the budget process using BIM 5D technologyThe main features of an efficient cost management system are related to availability and time of information generation regarding the cost of the project [1]. The conventional budgeting process based on 2D designs or non-parametric 3D... moreThe main features of an efficient cost management system are related to availability and time of information generation regarding the cost of the project [1]. The conventional budgeting process based on 2D designs or non-parametric 3D models, presents problems as the survey of quantities, which is done manually, demands too long, is subject to human error and tends to propagate inaccuracies [2].In this context, the 5D Building Information Modeling (BIM) technology, which works with cost estimates and budget of buildings, provides automatic precise quantification, reduces the variability of the results and makes the process more agile. [3] The aim of this master's research is the analysis of a 5D BIM model in order to compare the results obtained through this new technology with those from traditional budgeting methods.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rodrigo R Bagno•  6  Civil Engineering, BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)BIM Performance Measurement and Improvement (presentation slides)Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  3  Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Assessment of Building Information Modeling (BIM) Performance in architecture, engineering, and construction firms/industryIdentifying and Analyzing BIM Specialist Roles using a Competency-based ApproachThe diffusion of BIM practices and the increasing connotation of BIM contributed to the emergence of several BIM-based specialist roles within the Architectural, Construction, Engineering and Facility Management (AEC-FM) sector. Both the... moreThe diffusion of BIM practices and the increasing connotation of BIM contributed to the emergence of several BIM-based specialist roles within the Architectural, Construction, Engineering and Facility Management (AEC-FM) sector. Both the competencies of each specialist role and the potential areas of competency overlap across these roles are not clearly identified in both academic and industry literature. Addressing this gap is important for: creating vocational and tertiary learning opportunities; supporting performance improvement of individuals and potential certification schemes; and defining roles within contract and on projects, and drafting recruitment profiles. The paper aims to identify the competencies for four key BIM specialist roles – selected based on their citation frequency – and analyze their competency overlap. Three knowledge sieves are used to identify the BIM roles and their competencies: academic literature; national BIM guides and specifications from the UK, U...Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Djamel Ouahrani•  6  Construction Technology, Construction Management, Innovation In Built Environment, Building Information Modeling34 4D PLANNING AND SCHEDULING (4DPS): GROUNDING CONSTRUCTION IT RESEARCH IN INDUSTRY PRACTICESave to LibraryDownloadby Luis Alarcón•  105  Civil Engineering, Russian Studies, Information Technology, Research Methodology301in BIM Maturity MatrixThe BIM Maturity Matrix (BIm³) is intended for low-detail self-assessment of organisations and project teams. The BIm³ has two axes-BIM Capability Sets and the BIM Maturity Index. This document is released as part of the BIMe under... moreThe BIM Maturity Matrix (BIm³) is intended for low-detail self-assessment of organisations and project teams. The BIm³ has two axes-BIM Capability Sets and the BIM Maturity Index. This document is released as part of the BIMe under Creative Commons.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  12  Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementWhat is the Philosophy of Information?Computational and information-theoretic research in philosophy has become increasingly fertile and pervasive, giving rise to a wealth of interest-ing results. In consequence, a new and vitally important field has emerged, the philosophy... moreComputational and information-theoretic research in philosophy has become increasingly fertile and pervasive, giving rise to a wealth of interest-ing results. In consequence, a new and vitally important field has emerged, the philosophy of information (PI). This essay is the first attempt to analyse the nature of PI systematically. PI is defined as the philosophical field concerned with the critical investigation of the conceptual nature and basic principles of information,including its dynamics, utilisation, and sciences, and the elaboration and application of information-theoretic and computational methodologies to philosophical problems. I argue that PI is a mature discipline for three reasons: it represents an autonomous field of research; it provides an innovative approach to both traditional and new philosophical topics; and it can stand beside other branches of philosophy, offering a systematic treatment of the conceptual foundations of the world of information and the information society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luciano Floridi•  46  Information Systems, Computer Science, Information Science, Information TechnologyAn object-based 3D walk-through model for interior construction progress monitoringThe complicated nature of interior construction works makes the detailed progress monitoring challenging. Current interior construction progress monitoring methods involve submission of periodic reports and are constrained by their... moreThe complicated nature of interior construction works makes the detailed progress monitoring challenging. Current interior construction progress monitoring methods involve submission of periodic reports and are constrained by their reliance on manually intensive processes and limited support for recording visual information. Recent advances in image-based visualization techniques enable reporting construction progress using interactive and visual approaches. However, analyzing significant amounts of as-built construction photographs requires sophisticated techniques. To overcome limitations of existing approaches, this research focuses on visualization and computer vision techniques to monitor detailed interior construction progress using an object-based approach. As-planned 3D models from Building Information Modeling (BIM) and as-built photographs are visualized and compared in a walk-through model. Within such an environment, the as-built interior construction objects are decomposed to automatically generate the status of construction progress. This object-based approach introduces an advanced model that enables the user to have a realistic understanding of the interior construction progress.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zeeshan Aziz•  15  Engineering, Computer Vision, Visualization, Project ManagementBuilding Temperature Control with Adaptive FeedforwardSave to LibraryDownloadby Sumit Mukherjee•  20  Control Systems Engineering, Control Theory, Sustainable Building Design, Building Information ModelingBuilding temperature control: A passivity-based approachThis paper focuses on the temperature control in a multi-zone building. The lumped heat transfer model based on thermal resistance and capacitance is used to analyze the system dynamics and control strategy. The resulting thermal network,... moreThis paper focuses on the temperature control in a multi-zone building. The lumped heat transfer model based on thermal resistance and capacitance is used to analyze the system dynamics and control strategy. The resulting thermal network, including the zones, walls, and ambient environment, may be represented as an undirected graph. The thermal capacitances are the nodes in the graph, connected by thermal resistances as links. We assume the temperature measurements and temperature control elements (heating and cooling) are collocated. We show that the resulting input/output system is strictly passive, and any passive output feedback controller may be used to improve the transient and steady state performance without affecting the closed loop stability. The storage functions associated with passive systems may be used to construct a Lyapunov function, to demonstrate closed loop stability and motivates the construction of an adaptive feedforward control. A four-room example is included to illustrate the performance of the proposed passivity based control strategy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sumit Mukherjee•  20  Control Systems Engineering, Control Theory, Renewable Energy, EnergyNextLast »Related TopicsBIM (Architecture)FollowFollowingBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)FollowFollowingInteroperabilityFollowFollowingBIM-technologyFollowFollowingBIM Performance MeasurementFollowFollowingBIM EducationFollowFollowingConstruction Project ManagementFollowFollowingRevitFollowFollowingAssessment of Building Information Modeling (BIM) Performance in architecture, engineering, and construction firms/industryFollowFollowingConstruction ManagementFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023