Samoan language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Classification
2Geographic distribution
3Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
3.1Vowels
3.1.1Monophthongs
3.2Consonants
3.2.1Foreign words
3.3Stress
3.4Phonotactics
4Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
4.1Morphology
4.1.1Personal pronouns
4.1.2Articles
4.1.3Nouns
4.1.4Gender
4.1.5Number
4.1.6Possessives
4.1.7Adjectives
4.2Syntax
4.3Negation
4.3.1Position of negation in sentences
4.3.2Verbs exempt from negation
4.3.3Negative imperative verbs
4.3.4Negation of existential clauses
5Registers
Toggle Registers subsection
5.1Formal versus colloquial register
5.2Oratorical register
6Alphabet
Toggle Alphabet subsection
6.1Alphabet
7Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
7.1Numbers
7.2Similarities to other Austronesian languages
7.3Language preservation
8See also
9Notes
10References
11External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Samoan language
79 languages
AfrikaansالعربيةAsturianuتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisGalego한국어HawaiʻiHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoКомиLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംMāoriमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語NordfriiskNorfuk / PitkernNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаپښتوPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийGagana SamoaᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaትግርኛLea faka-TongaTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVepsän kel’Tiếng Việt吴语粵語中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Austronesian language of the Samoan Islands
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Samoan language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
SamoanGagana faʻa SāmoaMap showing Samoa's central place in the Pacific, where the language is most spoken.Native toSamoan IslandsRegionAsia-PacificEthnicitySamoansNative speakers510,000 (2015)[1]Language familyAustronesian
Malayo-PolynesianOceanicPolynesianSamoicSamoan–TokelauanSamoanWriting systemLatin (Samoan alphabet)Samoan BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language in Samoa American SamoaLanguage codesISO 639-1smISO 639-2smoISO 639-3smoGlottologsamo1305Linguasphere39-CAO-aIETFsm-WS (Samoa)sm-AS (American Samoa)This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Samoan (Gagana faʻa Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa; IPA: [ŋaˈŋana ˈsaːmʊa]) is a Polynesian language spoken by Samoans of the Samoan Islands. Administratively, the islands are split between the sovereign country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa. It is an official language, alongside English, in both jurisdictions. It is widely spoken across the Pacific region, heavily so in New Zealand and also in Australia and the United States. Among the Polynesian languages, Samoan is the most widely spoken by number of native speakers.
Samoan is spoken by approximately 260,000 people in the archipelago and with many Samoans living in diaspora in a number of countries, the total number of speakers worldwide was estimated at 510,000 in 2015. It is the third-most widely spoken language in New Zealand, where 2.2% of the population, 101,900 people, were able to speak it as of 2018.[2]
The language is notable for the phonological differences between formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory.
Classification[edit]
Samoan is an analytic, isolating language and a member of the Austronesian family, and more specifically the Samoic branch of the Polynesian subphylum. It is closely related to other Polynesian languages with many shared cognate words such as aliʻi, ʻava, atua, tapu and numerals as well as in the name of gods in mythology.
Linguists differ somewhat on the way they classify Samoan in relation to the other Polynesian languages.[3] The "traditional" classification,[4] based on shared innovations in grammar and vocabulary, places Samoan with Tokelauan, the Polynesian outlier languages and the languages of Eastern Polynesia, which include Rapanui, Māori, Tahitian and Hawaiian. Nuclear Polynesian and Tongic (the languages of Tonga and Niue) are the major subdivisions of Polynesian under this analysis. A revision by Marck reinterpreted the relationships among Samoan and the outlier languages. In 2008 an analysis, of basic vocabulary only, from the Austronesian Basic Vocabulary Database is contradictory in that while in part it suggests that Tongan and Samoan form a subgroup,[5] the old subgroups Tongic and Nuclear Polynesian are still included in the classification search of the database itself.[6]
Geographic distribution[edit]
Flag of Samoa.Flag of American Samoa.
Samoa and American Samoan islands where Samoan is the official language.
There are approximately 470,000 Samoan speakers worldwide, 50 percent of whom live in the Samoan Islands.[7]
Thereafter, the greatest concentration is in New Zealand, where there were 101,937 Samoan speakers at the 2018 census, or 2.2% of the country's population. Samoan is the third-most spoken language in New Zealand after English and Māori.[8]
According to the 2021 census in Australia conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the Samoan language is spoken in the homes of 49,021 people.[9]
US Census 2010 shows more than 180,000 Samoans reside in the United States, which is triple the number of people living in American Samoa, while slightly less than the estimated population of the island nation of Samoa – 193,000, as of July 2011.
Samoan Language Week (Vaiaso o le Gagana Sāmoa) is an annual celebration of the language in New Zealand supported by the government[10] and various organisations including UNESCO. Samoan Language Week was started in Australia for the first time in 2010.[11]
Phonology[edit]
The Samoan alphabet consists of 14 letters, with three more letters (H, K, R) used in loan words. The ʻ (koma liliu or ʻokina) is used for the glottal stop.
Aa, Āā
Ee, Ēē
Ii, Īī
Oo, Ōō
Uu, Ūū
Ff
Gg
Ll
Mm
Nn
Pp
Ss
Tt
Vv
(Hh)
(Kk)
(Rr)
‘
/a/, /aː/
/ɛ/, /eː/
/ɪ/, /iː/
/o/, /ɔː/
/ʊ, w/, /uː/
/f/
/ŋ/
/l~ɾ/
/m/
/n, ŋ/
/p/
/s/
/t, k/
/v/
(/h/)
(/k/)
(/ɾ/)
/ʔ/
Vowels[edit]
Vowel length is phonemic in Samoan; all five vowels also have a long form denoted by the macron.[12] For example, tama means child or boy, while tamā means father.
Monophthongs[edit]
Monophthongs
Short
Long
Front
Back
Front
Back
Close
i
u
iː
uː
Mid
e
o
eː
oː
Open
a
aː
Diphthongs are /au ao ai ae ei ou ue/.
The combination of u followed by a vowel in some words creates the sound of the English w, a letter not part of the Samoan alphabet, as in uaua (artery, tendon).
/a/ is reduced to [ə] in only a few words, such as mate or maliu 'dead', vave 'be quick'.
Consonants[edit]
In formal Samoan, used for example in news broadcasts or sermons, the consonants /t n ŋ/ are used. In colloquial Samoan, however, /n ŋ/ merge as [ŋ] and /t/ is pronounced [k].[13]
The glottal stop /ʔ/ is phonemic in Samoan. Its presence or absence affects the meaning of words otherwise spelled the same,[12] e.g. mai = from, originate from; maʻi = sickness, illness. The glottal stop is represented by the koma liliu ("inverted comma"), which is recognized by Samoan scholars and the wider community.[12] The koma liliu is often replaced by an apostrophe in modern publications. Use of the apostrophe and macron diacritics in Samoan words was readopted by the Ministry of Education in 2012 after having been abandoned in the 1960s.[14]
/l/ is pronounced as a flap [ɾ] following a back vowel (/a, o, u/) and preceding an /i/; otherwise it is [l]. /s/ is less sibilant (hissing) than in English.
/ɾ h/ are found in loan words.
Consonants
Labial
Alveolar
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ŋ
 
Plosive
p
t
(k)
ʔ
Fricative
f v
s
 
(h)
Lateral
 
l
 
 
Rhotic
 
(r)
 
 
The consonants in parentheses are only present in loanwords and formal Samoan.[15][16]
Foreign words[edit]
Bilingual sign at American Samoa National Park
Loanwords from English and other languages have been adapted to Samoan phonology:[17]
/k/ is retained in some instances (Christ = "Keriso", club = "kalapu", coffee = "kofe"), and has become [t] in rare instances (such as "se totini", from the English "stocking").
/ɹ/ becomes [ɾ] in some instances (e.g. Christ = "Keriso", January = "Ianuari", number = "numera"), and [l] in others (January = "Ianuali", herring = "elegi").
/d/ becomes [t] (David = "Tavita", diamond = "taimane").
/g/ becomes [k] in some cases (gas = "kesi"), while  /tʃ/, /ʃ/ and /dʒ/ usually become [s] (Charles = "Salesi", Charlotte = "Salata", James = "Semisi").
/h/ is retained at the beginning of some proper names (Herod = "Herota"), but in some cases becomes an 's' (hammer = "samala"), and is omitted in others (herring = "elegi", half-caste = "afakasi")
/z/ becomes [s] (Zachariah = "Sakaria")
/w/ becomes [v] (William = "Viliamu")
/b/ becomes [p] (Britain = "Peretania", butter = "pata")
Stress[edit]
Stress generally falls on the penultimate mora; that is, on the last syllable if that contains a long vowel or diphthong or on the second-last syllable otherwise. There are exceptions though, with many words ending in a long vowel taking the accent on the ultima; as maʻelega, zealous; ʻonā, to be intoxicated; faigatā, difficult.
Verbs formed from nouns ending in a, and meaning to abound in, have properly two aʻs, as puaa (puaʻaa), pona, tagata, but are written with one.
In speaking of a place at some distance, the accent is placed on the last syllable; as ʻO loʻo i Safotu, he is at Safotu. The same thing is done in referring to a family; as Sa Muliaga, the family of Muliaga, the term Sa referring to a wide extended family of clan with a common ancestor. So most words ending in ga, not a sign of a noun, as tigā, puapuaga, pologa, faʻataga and aga. So also all words ending in a diphthong, as mamau, mafai, avai.[17]
In speaking the voice is raised, and the emphasis falls on the last word in each sentence.
When a word receives an addition by means of an affixed particle, the accent is shifted forward; as alofa, love; alofága, loving, or showing love; alofagía, beloved.
Reduplicated words have two accents; as palapala, mud; segisegi, twilight. Compound words may have even three or four, according to the number of words and affixes of which the compound word is composed; as tofátumoánaíná, to be engulfed.
The articles le and se are unaccented. When used to form a pronoun or participle, le and se are contractions for le e, se e, and so are accented; as ʻO le ona le mea, the owner, literally the (person) whose (is) the thing, instead of O le e ona le mea. The sign of the nominative ʻo, the prepositions o, a, i, e, and the euphonic particles i and te, are unaccented; as ʻO maua, ma te o atu ia te oe, we two will go to you.
Ina, the sign of the imperative, is accented on the ultima; ína, the sign of the subjunctive, on the penultima. The preposition iá is accented on the ultima, the pronoun ia on the penultima.[17]
Phonotactics[edit]
Samoan syllable structure is (C)V, where V may be long or a diphthong. A sequence VV may occur only in derived forms and compound words; within roots, only the initial syllable may be of the form V. Metathesis of consonants is frequent, such as manu for namu 'scent', lavaʻau for valaʻau 'to call', but vowels may not be mixed up in this way.
Every syllable ends in a vowel. No syllable consists of more than three sounds, one consonant and two vowels, the two vowels making a diphthong; as fai, mai, tau. Roots are sometimes monosyllabic, but mostly disyllabic or a word consisting of two syllables. Polysyllabic words are nearly all derived or compound words; as nofogatā from nofo (sit, seat) and gatā, difficult of access; taʻigaafi, from taʻi, to attend, and afi, fire, the hearth, making to attend to the fire; talafaʻasolopito, ("history") stories placed in order, faletalimalo, ("communal house") house for receiving guests.[17]
Grammar[edit]
Morphology[edit]
Personal pronouns[edit]
Like many Austronesian languages, Samoan has separate words for inclusive and exclusive we, and distinguishes singular, dual, and plural. The root for the inclusive pronoun may occur in the singular, in which case it indicates emotional involvement on the part of the speaker.
singular
dual
plural
First person exclusive
a‘u , ‘ou
mā‘ua, mā
mātou
First person inclusive
tā
tā‘ua, tā
tātou
Second person
‘oe, ‘e
‘oulua
‘outou, tou
Third person
ia / na
lā‘ua
lātou
In formal speech, fuller forms of the roots mā-, tā-, and lā- are ‘imā-, ‘itā-, and ‘ilā-.
Articles[edit]
Articles in Samoan do not show the definiteness of the noun phrase as do those of English but rather specificity.[18]
Singular
Plural
Specific
le
∅
Non-specific
se
ni
The singular specific article le has frequently, erroneously, been referred to as a "definite" article, such as by Pratt, often with an additional vague explanation that it is sometimes used where English would require the indefinite article.[17] As a specific, rather than a definite article, it is used for specific referents that the speaker has in mind (specificity), regardless of whether the listener is expected to know which specific referent(s) is/are intended (definiteness). A sentence such as ʻUa tu mai le vaʻa, could thus, depending on context, be translated into English as "A canoe appears," when the listener or reader is not expected to know which canoe, or "The canoe appears," if the listener or reader is expected to know which canoe, such as when the canoe has previously been mentioned.
The plural specific is marked by a null article: ʻO le tagata "the person", ʻO tagata "people". (The word ʻo in these examples is not an article but a "presentative" preposition. It marks noun phrases used as clauses, introducing clauses or used as appositions etc.)
The non-specific singular article se is used when the speaker doesn't have a particular individual of a class in mind, such as in the sentence Ta mai se laʻau, "Cut me a stick," whereby there is no specific stick intended. The plural non-specific article ni is the plural form and may be translated into English as "some" or any", as in Ta mai ni laʻau, "Cut me some sticks."[18][17]
In addition, Samoan possesses a series of diminutive articles.
Singular
Plural
Specific diminutive-emotional
si
/
(Non-)specific diminutive-partitive
sina
/
Specific diminutive
/
nāi / nai
Non-specific diminutive
/
ni nāi / ni nai
[18]
Nouns[edit]
Names of natural objects, such as men, trees and animals, are mostly primitive nouns, e.g.ʻO le la, the sun; ʻo le tagata, the person; ʻo le talo, the taro; ʻo le iʻa, the fish; also manufactured articles, such as matau, an axe, vaʻa, canoe, tao, spear, fale, house, etc.[17]
Some nouns are derived from verbs by the addition of either ga, saga, taga, maga, or ʻaga: such as tuli, to chase; tuliga, chasing; luluʻu, to fill the hand; luʻutaga, a handful; feanu, to spit; anusaga, spittle; tanu, to bury; tanulia, the part buried. These verbal nouns have an active participial meaning; e.g. ʻO le faiga o le fale, the building of the house. Often they refer to the persons acting, in which case they govern the next noun in the genitive with a; ʻO le faiga a fale, contracted into ʻo le faiga fale, those who build the house, the builders. In some cases verbal nouns refer to either persons or things done by them: ʻO le faiga a talo, the getting of taro, or the party getting the taro, or the taro itself which has been got. The context in such cases decides the meaning. Sometimes place is indicated by the termination; such as tofā, to sleep; tofāga, a sleeping-place, a bed. ʻO le taʻelega is either the bathing-place or the party of bathers. The first would take o after it to govern the next noun, ʻO le taʻelega o le nuʻu, the bathing-place of the village; the latter would be followed by a, ʻO le taʻelega a teine, the bathing-place of the girls.
Sometimes such nouns have a passive meaning, such as being acted upon; ʻO le taomaga a lau, the thatch that has been pressed; ʻo le faupuʻega a maʻa, the heap of stones, that is, the stones which have been heaped up. Those nouns which take ʻaga are rare, except on Tutuila; gataʻaga, the end; ʻamataʻaga, the beginning; olaʻaga, lifetime; misaʻaga, quarrelling. Sometimes the addition of ga makes the signification intensive; such as ua and timu, rain; uaga and timuga, continued pouring (of rain).
The simple form of the verb is sometimes used as a noun: tatalo, to pray; ʻo le tatalo, a prayer; poto, to be wise; ʻo le poto, wisdom.
The reciprocal form of the verb is often used as a noun; e.g. ʻO le fealofani, ʻo femisaiga, quarrellings (from misa), feʻumaiga; E lelei le fealofani, mutual love is good.
A few diminutives are made by reduplication, e.g. paʻapaʻa, small crabs; pulepule, small shells; liilii, ripples; 'ili'ili, small stones.
Adjectives are made into abstract nouns by adding an article or pronoun; e.g. lelei, good; ʻo le lelei, goodness; silisili, excellent or best; ʻo lona lea silisili, that is his excellence or that is his best.
Many verbs may become participle-nouns by adding ga; as sau, come, sauga; e.g. ʻO lona sauga muamua , his first coming; mau" to mauga, ʻO le mauga muamua, the first dwelling.
Gender[edit]
As there is no proper gender in Oceanic languages, different genders are sometimes expressed by distinct names:
ʻO le matai, a chief.
ʻO le tamāloa, a man.
ʻO le tama, a boy.
ʻO le poʻa, a male animal.
ʻO le toeaʻina, an elderly man.
sole, colloquial male label.
ʻO le tamaitaʻi, a lady.
ʻO le fafine, a woman.
ʻO le teine, a girl.
ʻO le manu fafine, a female animal.
ʻO le loʻomatua, an elderly woman.
suga, funa, colloquial female label.
When no distinct name exists, the gender of animals is known by adding poʻa and fafine respectively. The gender of some few plants is distinguished by tane and fafine, as in ʻo le esi tane; ʻo le esi fafine. No other names of objects have any mark of gender.[17]
Number[edit]
The singular number is known by the article with the noun; e.g. ʻo le tama, a boy.
Properly there is no dual. It is expressed by omitting the article and adding numbers e lua for things e.g. e toʻalua teine, two girls, for persons; or ʻo fale e lua, two houses; ʻo tagata e toʻalua, two persons; or ʻo lāʻua, them/those two (people).
The plural is known by:
the omission of the article; ʻo ʻulu, breadfruits.
particles denoting multitude, as ʻau, vao, mou, and moíu, and such plural is emphatic; ʻo le ʻau iʻa, a shoal of fishes; ʻo le vao tagata, a forest of men, i.e., a great company; ʻo le mou mea, a great number of things; ʻo le motu o tagata, a crowd of people. These particles cannot be used indiscriminately; motu could not be used with fish, nor ʻau with men.
lengthening, or more correctly doubling, a vowel in the word; tuafāfine, instead of tuafafine, sisters of a brother. This method is rare.[17]
Plurality is also expressed by internal reduplication in Samoan verbs (-CV- infix), by which the root or stem of a word, or part of it, is repeated.
 
 
savali
'Walk' (singular)
→
sāvavali
'Walking' (plural)
(sā-va-vali)
 
 
alofa
'Love' (singular)
→
ālolofa
'Loving' (plural)
(a-lo-lofa)
(Moravcsik 1978, Broselow and McCarthy 1984)
 
 
le tamāloa
'the man' (singular)[17]
→
tamāloloa
'men' (plural)
(tamā-lo-loa)
Possessives[edit]
Possessive relations are indicated by the particles a or o. Possessive pronouns also have a-forms and o-forms: lou, lau, lona, lana, lo and la matou, etc. Writers in the 1800s like Platt were unable to understand the underlying principles governing the use of the two forms: "There is no general rule which will apply to every case. The governing noun decides which should be used; thus ʻO le poto ʻo le tufuga fai fale, "the wisdom of the builder"; ʻO le amio a le tama, "the conduct of the boy"; ʻupu o fāgogo, "words of fāgogo" (a form of narrated and sung storytelling); but ʻupu a tagata, "words of men". Pratt instead gives a rote list of uses and exceptions:
O is used with:
Nouns denoting parts of the body; fofoga o le aliʻi, eyes of the chief. So of hands, legs, hair, etc.; except the beard, which takes a, lana ʻava; but a chief's is lona soesa. Different terms and words apply to chiefs and people of rank and status according to the 'polite' variant of the Samoan language, similar to the 'polite' variant in the Japanese language.
The mind and its affections; ʻo le toʻasa o le aliʻi, the wrath of the chief. So of the will, desire, love, fear, etc.; ʻO le manaʻo o le nuʻu, the desire of the land; ʻO le mataʻu o le tama, the fear of the boy.
Houses, and all their parts; canoes, land, country, trees, plantations; thus, pou o le fale, posts of the house; lona fanua, lona naʻu, etc.
People, relations, slaves; ʻo ona tagata, his people; ʻo le faletua o le aliʻi, the chief's wife. So also of a son, daughter, father, etc. Exceptions; Tane, husband; ava, wife (of a common man), and children, which take a; lana, ava, ma, ana, fānau.
Garments, etc., if for use; ona ʻofu. Except when spoken of as property, riches, things laid up in store.
A is used with:
Words denoting conduct, custom, etc.; amio, masani, tu.
Language, words, speeches; gagana, upu, fetalaiga, afioga; ʻO le upu a le tama.
Property of every kind. Except garments, etc., for use.
Those who serve, animals, men killed and carried off in war; lana tagata.
Food of every kind.
Weapons and implements, as clubs, knives, swords, bows, cups, tattooing instruments, etc. Except spears, axes, and ʻoso (the stick used for planting taro), which take o.
Work; as lana galuega. Except faiva, which takes o.
Some words take either a or o; as manatu, taofi, ʻO se tali a Matautu, an answer given by Matautu; ʻo se tali ʻo Matautu, an answer given to Matautu.
Exceptions:
Nouns denoting the vessel and its contents do not take the particle between them: ʻo le ʻato talo, a basket of taro; ʻo le fale oloa, a house of property, shop, or store-house.
Nouns denoting the material of which a thing is made: ʻO le tupe auro, a coin of gold; ʻo le vaʻa ifi, a canoe of teak.
Nouns indicating members of the body are rather compounded with other nouns instead of being followed by a possessive particle: ʻO le mataivi, an eye of bone; ʻo le isu vaʻa, a nose of a canoe; ʻo le gutu sumu, a mouth of the sumu (type of fish); ʻo le loto alofa, a heart of love.
Many other nouns are compounded in the same way: ʻO le apaau tane, the male wing; ʻo le pito pou, the end of the post.
The country or town of a person omits the particle: ʻO le tagata Sāmoa, a man or person of Samoa.
Nouns ending in a, lengthen (or double) that letter before other nouns in the possessive form: ʻO le sua susu; ʻo le maga ala, or maga a ala, a branch road.
The sign of the possessive is not used between a town and its proper name, but the topic marker ʻo is repeated; thus putting the two in apposition: ʻO le ʻaʻai ʻo Matautu, the commons of Matautu.
Adjectives[edit]
Some adjectives are primitive, as umi, long; poto, wise. Some are formed from nouns by the addition of a, meaning "covered with" or "infested with"; thus, ʻeleʻele, dirt; ʻeleʻelea, dirty; palapala, mud; palapalā, muddy.
Others are formed by doubling the noun; as pona, a knot; ponapona, knotty; fatu, a stone; fatufatu, stony.
Others are formed by prefixing faʻa to the noun; as ʻo le tu faʻasāmoa, Samoan custom or faʻamatai.
Like ly in English, the faʻa often expresses similitude; ʻo le amio faʻapuaʻa, behave like a pig (literally).
In one or two cases a is prefixed; as apulupulu, sticky, from pulu, resin; avanoa, open; from vā and noa.
Verbs are also used as adjectives: ʻo le ala faigatā, a difficult road; ʻo le vai tafe, a river, flowing water; ʻo le laʻau ola, a live tree; also the passive: ʻo le aliʻi mātaʻutia.
Ma is the prefix of condition, sae, to tear; masae, torn; as, ʻO le ʻie masae, torn cloth; Goto, to sink; magoto, sunk; ʻo le vaʻa magoto, a sunken canoe.
A kind of compound adjective is formed by the union of a noun with an adjective; as ʻo le tagata lima mālosi, a strong man, literally, the stronghanded man; ʻo le tagata loto vaivai, a weak-spirited man.
Nouns denoting the materials out of which things are made are used as adjectives: ʻo le mama auro, a gold ring; ʻo le fale maʻa, a stone house. Or they may be reckoned as nouns in the genitive.
Adjectives expressive of colours are mostly reduplicated words; as sinasina or paʻepaʻe (white); uliuli (black); samasama (yellow); ʻenaʻena (brown); mumu (red), etc.; but when they follow a noun they are usually found in their simple form; as ʻo le ʻie sina, white cloth; ʻo le puaʻa uli, a black pig. The plural is sometimes distinguished by doubling the first syllable; as sina, white; plural, sisina; tele, great; pl. tetele. In compound words the first syllable of the root is doubled; as maualuga, high; pl. maualuluga. Occasionally the reciprocal form is used as a plural; as lele, flying; ʻo manu felelei, flying creatures, birds.
Comparison is generally effected by using two adjectives, both in the positive state; thus e lelei lenei, ʻa e leaga lena, this is good – but that is bad, not in itself, but in comparison with the other; e umi lenei, a e puupuu lena, this is long, that is short.
The superlative is formed by the addition of an adverb, such as matuā, tasi, sili, silisiliʻese aʻiaʻi, naʻuā; as ʻua lelei tasi, it alone is good – that is, nothing equals it. ʻUa matuā silisili ona lelei, it is very exceedingly good; ʻua tele naʻuā, it is very great. Silisili ese, highest, ese, differing from all others.
Naua has often the meaning of "too much"; ua tele naua, it is greater than is required.
Syntax[edit]
Sentences have different types of word order and the four most commonly used are verb–subject–object (VSO), verb–object–subject (VOS), subject–verb–object (SVO) and object–verb–subject (OVS).[12][19][20]
For example:- The girl went to the house. (SVO); girl (subject), went (verb), house (object).
Samoan word order;
VSOSa aluwentle teinegirlʻi le fale.house{Sa alu} {le teine} {ʻi le} {fale}.went girl {} house
VOSSa aluwentʻi le falehousele teine.girl{Sa alu} {ʻi le} {fale} {le teine}.went {} house girl
OVSLe falehousesa aluwentʻi ai le teine.girlLe {fale} {sa alu} {ʻi ai} {le teine}.{} house went {} girl
SVOLe teinegirlsa aluwentʻi le fale.house{Le teine} {sa alu} {ʻi le} {fale}.girl went {} house
Negation[edit]
A phrase or clause can be made negative by the addition of a particle, a morpheme usually meaning 'not'. There are two common negative particles in Samoan, lē and leʻi (sometimes also written as lei). Lē has the allomorphs [le:] or [le] (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 142, 375).[18] Lē should not be confused for le, the specific singular article, which indicates that the noun phrase refers to one particular entity (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 259). Lē and lei negate declarative and interrogative sentences, but do not negate imperative sentences. Negative imperative verbs are discussed later in this entry. Lē (meaning "not") can be combined with all tense-aspect-mood particles (or 'TAM' particles), except those that are optative and subjunctive, such as neʻi, seʻi, and ʻia (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 375).
A negative particle may mark a negative verbal clause, as seen in the example below (from Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 56).
(1)‘UaPERFlēnotfiafiahappyleARTtamaboy‘Ua lē fiafia le tamaPERF not happy ART boy'The boy is unhappy.'
In this example of a negated declarative sentence, it can be seen that, in Samoan, there is no equivalent gloss for 'unhappy'. The negative particle lē modifies the verbal clause to form something like "not happy" instead.
The meaning of leʻi differs slightly from that of lē. Leʻi indicates that an event or state has not been actualised yet, or for the time being, but is expected to become so. Therefore, leʻi is often translated as "not yet" rather than simply "not". Leʻi is usually only combined with the general TAM particle e or te. See the example below (from Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 376).
(2)EGENRleinot yetteapartTutuilaTutuilaaebutamatabeginleARTpelecard-playingE lei tea Tutuila ae amata le peleGENR {not yet} part Tutuila but begin ART card-playing'The playing of cards started already before we left Tutuila.'
The above example (2) demonstrates the common usage of leʻi to mean "not yet". In some cases, leʻi simply means "no, not at all", expressing the concept that an event that had been expected to happen or had been thought to have happened, did not occur after all (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 479).
There is a particle, faʻa=, that acts as a causative, as well being as the most common prefix in the Samoan language. This particle can be attached to nearly all nouns and non-ergative verbs. When attached to negated verb phrases, faʻa= means having the qualities of or being similar to whatever is denoted by the basic stem or phrase. It is often combined with the negative particle lē (or its allomorphs) to form the construction faʻa=lē=. Prefixing Faʻa=lē= onto a verb provides a polite way to say a negative phrase. Mosel & Hovdhaugen (1992, pp. 175–179) state that these particles provide three ways to express negative evaluations that vary on a scale of politeness, as demonstrated below:
(3)
leaga
lē lelei
fa‘a=lē=lelei
"bad"
"not good"
"like=not=good"
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
less polite
more polite
Position of negation in sentences[edit]
In Samoan, particles modifying sentences usually take the first place in the sentence, with the exception of the question particle ʻea. The particles forming a category are not always mutually exclusive: for instance, while two negative particles cannot be combined, certain prepositions can occur together. Additionally, negative prenuclear particles will follow the preverbal pronoun or the TAM particle (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 140).
In the following examples from Mosel & Hovdhaugen (1992, pp. 331), the negative particles follow the TAM particle te (Example 1: e) or the preverbal pronoun (Example 2: ʻou).
(1)EGENRlēnotleleigoodE lē leleiGENR not good'It is not good.'
(2)ʻOu1SGteGENRlēnotalugoiLDApiaApiaʻOu te lē alu i Apia1SG GENR not go LD Apia'I don't go to Apia.'
In both examples, the negative particle is in the second position, after the preverbal pronoun and/or the TAM particle. In Example 2, there is both a preverbal pronoun (ʻou) AND a TAM particle following it (te). This demonstrates that the negative particle must always follow these two types of preceding particles in the sentence, even if they are both present.
Verbs exempt from negation[edit]
There are two existential verbs in Samoan: iai, "to exist, be present" and the negative equivalent leai [leái] or [le:ái], "to not exist, be absent". They differ from all other Samoan verbs in at least one respect: they cannot be negated by a negative particle. Mosel & Hovdhaugen (1992, pp. 114) suggest that this originates in the etymology of these verbs: the negative existential verb leai is probably derived from lē ("not") and ai (ANAPH, "not there"). It seems that the inclusion of negation in the verb itself disallows the negative particle from the sentence structure.
See the example from Mosel & Hovdhaugen (1992, pp. 56) in the sentence below:
(1)EGENRleainot existniART(NSP.PL)taavale,carauabecauseeGENRleinot yetooreachatuDIRiLDaiANAPHalaroad(SP.PL)taavalecarE leai ni taavale, aua e lei oo atu i ai ala taavaleGENR {not exist} ART(NSP.PL) car because GENR {not yet} reach DIR LD ANAPH road(SP.PL) car'There were not any cars, because the roads did not reach there.'
In this example, the existential verb leai has been used to indicate the absence of something (that is, the cars) rather than using a negative particle. However, a negative particle (lei) has been used in the second clause, modifying the verbal clause to create the phrase "the roads did NOT reach there", with the emphasis on the absence of the roads in that area.
According to Mosel & Hovdhaugen (1992, pp. 480–481) the only TAM particles that appear with leai are ʻua and e or te. This means that leai acts as if non-existence is a general fact, rather than linking it to a specific point in time. When another verb follows leai within the same verb phrase, it functions as a more emphatic negation meaning something like "not at all". This is demonstrated in the following example:
(2)EGENRleainot existgāoimoveSinaSinaE leai gāoi SinaGENR {not exist} move Sina'Sina didn't move at all.'
Here, the addition of leai to the verb gāoi "to move" makes the statement more emphatic: not only did Sina not move, she did not move at all.
Negative imperative verbs[edit]
There are two negative imperative verbs, ʻaua and sōia. ʻAua should not be confused with aua, which means "because". These negative imperative verbs can be used independently of negative particles; as the negation is in the verb itself, an extra particle is not required. ʻAua means "don’t do, should not do" and is employed to express commands in both direct and indirect speech. What should not be done is indicated by a verbal complement clause, as seen in the example below (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 482).
(1)ʻAuaDon'te2SGteGENRfa‘asāunoatortureʻiLDmea=olathing=life(SP.PL)ʻAua e te fa‘asāunoa ʻi mea=olaDon't 2SG GENR torture LD thing=life(SP.PL)'Do not torture animals.'
As discussed above, this sentence does not require a negative particle, because the negative imperative verb is sufficient. Alternatively, sōia means that 'one should stop doing something one has already started' (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 483). As with ʻaua, what should not be done is indicated by a verbal complement. In direct speech, sōia is either used in the imperative without any TAM particle or in the optative marked by seiʻi (Mosel & Hovdhaugen, 1992, pp. 483).
See the example below with sōia as the negative imperative:
(2)Mandy-Jane!Mandy-Janesōiastope2SGteGENRfaitala!gossipMandy-Jane! sōia e te faitala!Mandy-Jane stop 2SG GENR gossip'Mandy-Jane! Stop gossiping!'
This works differently from ʻaua, although they are both imperative. It can be seen here that sōia means something like "cease what you are doing immediately" while ʻaua means "don’t do that action" (in a general sense).
Negation of existential clauses[edit]
The noun phrase forming an existential clause is introduced by a preposition: ʻo or naʻo, meaning "only". An existential clause is negated with a complex clause: Mosel & Hovdhaugen (1992, pp. 500–501) state that 'the existential clause functions as the argument of a verbal predicate formed by a TAM particle and the negative particle lē ("not")'. An example of this can be seen in the example below, where the preposition o precedes the negative particle lē.
(1)AuaBecausefoi,also,o le aFUTlenotoPRESNiuNewSila,ZealandlenotoPRESleARTKolisicollegeoPOSSSamoaSamoaabutoPRESleARTta=meabeat=thingmaandleARTauli...ironingAua foi, {o le a} le o Niu Sila, le o le Kolisi o Samoa a o le ta=mea ma le auli...Because also, FUT not PRES New Zealand not PRES ART college POSS Samoa but PRES ART beat=thing and ART ironing'There will be no New Zealand, no Samoan college [for me to go to if I do not pass the exam], but [only] washing and ironing [at home]....'
This complex sentence has several examples of negation where the negative particle lē is combined with the preposition o in order to negate an existential clause ("there will be no...").
Registers[edit]
Formal versus colloquial register[edit]
The language has a polite or formal variant used in oratory and ceremony as well as in communication with elders, guests, people of rank and strangers.[20]
The consonant system of colloquial Samoan ("casual Samoan", or "tautala leaga" as it is known) is slightly different from the literary language ("proper Samoan", or "tautala lelei"), and is referred to as K speech or K style.[12] In colloquial speech, defined as taking place in casual social situations among intimates or in the home among familiars of equivalent social rank, /t/ is sometimes pronounced [k] and /n/ has merged with /ŋ/ as [ŋ]. Additionally, /l/ is pronounced [ɾ] following a back vowel (/a, o, u/) and preceding an /i/. /s/ is less sibilant than in English, and /h/ and /r/ are found only in borrowings, with /s/ and /l/ sometimes being substituted for them.
Therefore, in colloquial Samoan speech, common consonant replacements occur such as:[12][20]
t is pronounced k – tama (child, boy) is pronounced kama; tautala ("to speak") is pronounced kaukala; tulāfale ("orator", "talking chief") is pronounced kulāfale.
n is pronounced ng – fono ("meeting", "assembly") is pronounced fongo; ono (the numeral "six") is pronounced ongo; māʻona ("satisfied", "full") is pronounced māʻonga.
Oratorical register[edit]
Historically and culturally, an important form of the Samoan language is oratory, a ceremonial language sometimes referred to in publications as 'chiefly language', or gagana faʻaaloalo ("dignified language")[21] which incorporates classical Samoan terms and prose as well as a different set of vocabulary, which is tied to the roles of orator chiefs (tulāfale) and 'speechmaking' (failāuga) that remains part of the culture's continuing indigenous matai system of governance and social organization. The gagana faʻaaloalo (polite speech) register is used by lower-ranking people to address people of higher status, such as their family matai chief, government officials, or clergy. It is also the formal register used among chiefs during ceremonial occasions and social rites such as funerals, weddings, chiefly title bestowals and village council meetings.
It is not common for entire conversations to be held in chiefly register, and the "dignified language" is used mainly in making formal introductions between individuals, opening and concluding formal meetings, and executing ceremonial tasks (such as the ʻava ceremony). It is also considered proper to use the "polite" language when praying. Untitled people (those without matai chief titles) who are unfamiliar with each other will often greet each other in chiefly register as a common courtesy, while familiar individuals frequently use chiefly addresses in jest (as in humorously addressing friends with "talofa lava lau afioga" – "respectful greetings your highness" – instead of the more colloquial "malo sole!" – "hey man!").
Examples of "polite" word variants according to social rank:
English
Common term
In relation to a "High Chief"
In relation to a "Talking Chief"
In relation to a "Tufuga" artisan/builder
house
fale
māota
laoa
apisā
wife
toʻalua, avā
faletua, masiofo
tausi
meanaʻi
dog
maile
taʻifau
ʻuli
you
ʻoe
lau susuga, lau afioga
lau tofā
mataisau, agaiotupu
welcome, greeting
tālofa, mālo
susu mai, afio mai
maliu mai, sosopo mai
to sit
nofo
afio
alāla
to eat
ʻai
tausami, talisua, talialo
taumafa
to drink
inu
taute
taumafa
to bathe
tāʻele
ʻauʻau, faʻamalu, penapena
faʻamalu, ʻauʻau
pillow, headrest
ʻali
lalago
āluga
grave, tomb
tuʻugamau, tia
loa, lagi, lagomau, ʻoliʻolisaga
alālafagamau
kava
ʻava
agatonu, fanua, uta, lupesina, lātasi
agatonu, fanua, uta, lupesina, lātasi
garden, plantation
faʻatoʻaga
faʻeleʻeleaga
velevelega
to meet, to receive a guest
feiloaʻi
fesilafaʻi
fetapaʻi
speech, sermon
lauga
malelega, saunoaga, tuleiga, tānoa
fetalaiga, lafolafoga, moe, tuʻu
to die
oti, mate, maliu
tuʻumalo
usufono
to look, to see
vaʻai
silasila, silafaga
māimoa
tagaʻi
Another polite form of speech in "polite" Samoan includes terms and phrases of self-abasement that are used by the speaker in order to show respect and flatter the listener. For example when praising the child of another woman, a mother might politely refer to her own children as "ui" (literally, "piglets"); in order to emphasize the beauty of a fine tapa cloth, the presenter might refer to it as a simple "vala" (plain cloth); the weaver of an especially fine mat might call it "launiu" (coconut leaf) or "lā" (sail cloth) in order to not appear boastful. Overshadowing the dignity or prestige of higher-ranking individuals is a grave offense in Samoan culture, so words are chosen very carefully to express individual feelings in a way that acknowledges relative statuses within social hierarchy.
Alphabet[edit]
Bilingual sign in Vatia, American Samoa
Encounters with Europeans began in the 1700s, followed by the era of colonialism in the Pacific. Samoan was only a spoken language until the early to mid-1800s when Christian missionaries began documenting the spoken language for religious texts and introducing the Latin script for writing. In 1834, an orthography of the language was distributed by the London Missionary Society, which also set up a printing press by 1839. The first complete Bible (Tusi Paʻia, Sacred Book) in Samoan was completed and published in 1862.[22]
The first problem that faced the missionaries in Polynesia was that of learning the language of the island, which they intended to convert to Christianity. The second was that of identifying the sounds in the local languages with the symbols employed in their own languages to establish alphabets for recording the spelling of native words. Having established more-or-less satisfactory alphabets and spelling, teaching the indigenous people how to write and read their own language was next necessary. A printing press, with the alphabet keys used only English, was part of the mission equipment, and it was possible not only to translate and write out portions of the Bible scriptures, and hymns in the local language but also to print them for use as texts in teaching. Thus, the missionaries introduced writing for the first time within Polynesia, were the first printers and established the first schools in villages.[23]
Alphabet[edit]
See also: Samoan Braille
The alphabet proper consists of only 15 letters: 5 vowels, a e i o u, and 10 consonants, f g l m n p s t v ʻ. In addition, a macron (faʻamamafa) written over a vowel letters indicates the five long vowels, ā ē ī ō ū, as in manu 'animal', mānu 'float, afloat'. The ʻokina ʻ (koma liliu, a reversed apostrophe) indicates the glottal stop, as in many other Polynesian languages. For typographic convenience, the ʻokina is often replaced by a simple apostrophe, '.[24] The additional letters h, k, r are used in foreign loanwords, apart from the single interjection puke(ta)! 'gotcha!'; although the sound [k] is found in native words in colloquial speech, it is spelled t. The letter g represents a velar nasal, as in the English word sing, rather than a voiced velar stop, as in the English go. Thus, the correct pronunciation of Pago Pago is [ˈpaŋo ˈpaŋo].
The first grammar and dictionary of the Samoan language, A Grammar and Dictionary of the Samoan Language, with English and Samoan Vocabulary, was written by Reverend George Pratt in 1862.[17] Pratt's valuable Samoan dictionary records many old words of special interest, specialist terminology, archaic words and names in Samoan tradition. It contains sections on Samoan proverbs and poetry, and an extensive grammatical sketch.[25]
Pratt was a missionary for the London Missionary Society and lived for 40 years in Matautu on the island of Savaiʻi.
Vocabulary[edit]
Numbers[edit]
The cardinal numerals are:
Numeral
Samoan
English
0
noa, selo (English loanword)
zero
1
tasi
one
2
lua
two
3
tolu
three
4
fa
four
5
lima
five
6
ono
six
7
fitu
seven
8
valu
eight
9
iva
nine
10
sefulu
ten
11
sefulu ma le tasi, sefulu tasi
eleven
12
sefulu ma le lua, sefulu lua
twelve
20
luafulu, lua sefulu
twenty
30
tolugafulu, tolu sefulu
thirty
40
fagafulu, fa sefulu
forty
50
limagafulu, lima sefulu
fifty
60
onogafulu, ono sefulu
sixty
70
fitugafulu, fitu sefulu
seventy
80
valugafulu, valu sefulu
eighty
90
ivagafulu, iva sefulu
ninety
100
selau, lau
one hundred
200
lua lau, lua selau
two hundred
300
tolugalau, tolu selau
three hundred
1000
afe
one thousand
2000
lua afe
two thousand
10,000
mano, sefulu afe
ten thousand
100,000
Selau afe
one hundred thousand
1,000,000
miliona (English loan word)
one million
The term mano was an utmost limit until the adoption of loan words like miliona (million) and piliona (billion). Otherwise, quantities beyond mano were referred to as manomano or ilu; that is, innumerable.[17]
The prefix faʻa is also used to indicate the number of times.
For example; faʻatolu – three times. Or faʻafia? – how many times?
The prefix "lona" or "le" indicates sequential numbering, as in "lona lua" (second), lona tolu (third), "le fa" (fourth); "muamua" or "uluaʻi" denote "first". Familial sequence was denoted with terms such as ulumatua ("eldest"), uiʻi ("youngest"), and ogatotonu ("middle child"); first and last born were also deemed honorifically, pa le manava ("opening the womb") and pupuni le manava ("sealing the womb"), respectively.
To denote the number of persons, the term toʻa is used.
For example; E toʻafitu tagata e o i le pasi. Seven people are going/travelling by bus.
The suffix "lau" is used when formally counting fish, in reference to the customary plaiting of fish in leaves ("lau") before cooking.
For example: "tolu lau" – three fishes
There are also formal prefixes or suffixes used in the chiefly register when counting different species of fish, taro, yams, bananas, chickens, pigs, and other foodstuffs.
Similarities to other Austronesian languages[edit]
Despite the geographical distance, there are many shared words between different Austronesian languages. Below is a list of examples from 4 other Malayo-Polynesian languages: Tongan, Hawaiian, Maanyan, Malay. Note the presence of IPA(key) where available.
Samoan
Tongan
Hawaiian
Maanyan
Malay
Hello
alofa, talofa
mālō e lelei
aloha
Sky
lagi : /laŋi/
langi
lani : /lani/
langit
langit
North Wind
toʻelau
tokelau
koʻolau
Zero
noa, selo : /nɵʊə/
noa
ʻole
kosong, sifar,[26] nol[27]
One
tasi : /ˈta.si/
taha
ʻekahi
isa
satu, esa
Two
lua : /luwɔ/
ua
ʻelua
ruʻeh
dua
Three
tolu : /ˈto.lu/
tolu : /ˈto.lu/
ʻekolu
telu
tiga, telu (Old Malay)
Four
fa : /faː/
fa : /faː/
ʻehā
epat
empat
Five
lima : /lima/
nima
ʻelima
dime
lima
Six
ono : /ˈo.no/
/ˈo.no/
ʻeono
enem
enam
Seven
fitu : /ˈfi.tu/
fitu
ʻehiku
pitu
tujuh
Eight
valu : /vəlu/
valu
ʻewalu, ʻawalu
walu
(de)lapan
Nine
iva : /ˈiva/
hiva
ʻeiwa, iwa, ʻaiwa
suey
sembilan
Ten
sefulu : /sɛfɵlɵ/
hongofulu
ʻumi
sapuluh
sepuluh
[28][29][30]
Language preservation[edit]
Though it is not the primary language of a number of nations outside of Samoa, there is an effort by the descendants of Samoans to learn the native language of their ancestors and to better understand their origins and history. Much like any language, a shift is occurring in the way words are spoken and pronounced, especially as Samoans further integrate with other languages. Most looking to learn Samoan are forced to turn to written materials instead of living examples. To preserve the language, linguists must use diacritical marks. Without them, the actual pronunciations of words quickly become altered and lost.[31] The marks are commonly found before, under and above letters in words and are especially helpful for students and non-native speakers to realize the difference the vowels and glottal stops can make in the pronunciation of words.
Examples include:
Samoan
with marking
Meaning
Samoan
without marking
Meaning
sa‘u
(one of) my
sau
(one of) your
mo‘u
(for) me
mou
(for) you
lo‘u
my
lou
your
Below is another example of a sentence with and without diacritical marks from the Samoan Bible (O le tusi paia, o le Feagaiga Tuai ma le Feagaiga fou lea) [1]:
[Original] Faauta, ua e le foai mai ia te au ...
[With diacritics] Faʻauta ʻua ʻe lē fōaʻi mai iā te aʻu ...
Sign with diacritic mark for Hauʻula elementary school in Hawaii
Samoan diacritical marks may seem confusing at first due to the way the language shifts based on context. Also, the mixed use of diacritical marks in literature and even within the same publication can surprise non-native speakers. This is evident in the Bible translation created by early missionaries and Reverend George Pratt which features markings in some words and not others. Part of it was due to the need to save time on the writing and typesetting and to use the markings as a guideline.[31] Much like the Bible helped improve literacy and understanding of the language throughout Samoan communities, written works continue to be important in much the same way today.
The use of the diacritical marks are not only prevalent in Samoan but also other Polynesian languages, such as Hawaiian, where similar pronunciation losses exist. Since native speakers understand how a word should be pronounced without the markings, words are commonly written and accepted with the markings absent. To prevent the loss of correct pronunciations, however, language preservation groups and the Samoan and Hawaiian governments, are taking measure to include diacritical markings in signage, television programs, school materials and printed media.[32][33]
See also[edit]
Faʻamatai Samoa's chiefly matai system which includes aliʻi and orator chief statuses
Samoan plant names, includes plants used in traditional Samoan medicine.
List of Important Publications in Samoan
Notes[edit]
^ Samoan at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ "2013 Census totals by topic". Statistics New Zealand. Archived from the original on 13 December 2013. Retrieved 11 December 2013.
^ "Language Materials Project, Samoan". University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Retrieved 17 July 2010.
^ "Ethnologue Report for Polynesian". Ethnologue.com. Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ "Austronesian Basic Vocabulary Database figure template" (PDF). Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ "Classification search of the Austronesian Basic Vocabulary Database". Language.psy.auckland.ac.nz. Retrieved 11 September 2011.
^ Lewis, M. Paul (ed.), 2009. "Samoan". Ethnologue: Languages of the World, Sixteenth edition. Dallas, Tex.: SIL International.
^ "2018 Census totals by topic – national highlights (updated) | Stats NZ". www.stats.govt.nz. Retrieved 31 May 2021.
^ "Australia: Languages spoken at home | .id (informed decisions)". www.id.com.au. Retrieved 30 January 2023.
^ "Motions; Samoan Language Week – Recognition". New Zealand Parliament. Retrieved 10 July 2010.
^ "Samoan Language Week on its way". Human Rights Commission of New Zealand. Archived from the original on 16 November 2010. Retrieved 10 July 2010.
^ a b c d e f Hunkin, Galumalemana Afeleti (2009). Gagana Samoa: A Samoan Language Coursebook. University of Hawaii Press. pp. xiii, 103–105, 122. ISBN 978-0-8248-3131-8. Retrieved 17 July 2010.
^ A somewhat similar situation is found in Hawaiian, where /k/ is the reflex of *t and *ŋ has merged with *n.
^ "Samoa to restore use of apostrophes and macrons". SamoaNews.com. 25 November 2012.
^ "Phonology".
^ Alderete, John; Bradshaw, Mark (2012). Samoan Grammar Synopsis (PDF). Simon Fraser University.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Pratt, George (1984) [1893]. A Grammar and Dictionary of the Samoan Language, with English and Samoan vocabulary (3rd and revised ed.). Papakura, New Zealand: R. McMillan. ISBN 0-908712-09-X. Retrieved 14 March 2010.
^ a b c d Mosel, Ulrike; Hovdhaugen, Even (1992). Samoan Reference Grammar. Oslo, Norway: Scandinavian University Press : Institute for Comparative Research in Human Culture. pp. 56, 114, 140–142, 175–179, 259, 331, 375–376, 479–483, 500–501.
^ Philips, Susan Urmston; Susan Steele; Christine Tanz (1987). Language, gender, and sex in comparative perspective. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-33807-3. Retrieved 3 January 2011.
^ a b c Ochs, Elinor (1988). Culture and language development. CUP Archive. p. 56. ISBN 0-521-34894-3. Retrieved 18 August 2010.
^ Beedham, Christopher (2005). Language and meaning: the structural creation of reality. John Benjamins Publishing Company. p. 140. ISBN 90-272-1564-2.
^ Hunkin, Alfred; Penny Griffith; Lagi Sipeli; Jean Mitaera (1997). Book and Print Culture in New Zealand. Wellington, NZ: Victoria University Press. p. 250. ISBN 978-0-86473-331-3. Retrieved 22 July 2010.
^ Hiroa, Te Rangi (1945). An Introduction to Polynesian Anthropology. Honolulu: Kraus Reprint Co. p. 28. Retrieved 17 July 2010 – via NZETC.
^ Hunkin, Galumalemana Afeleti (2009). Gagana Sāmoa: A Samoan Language Coursebook. University of Hawaii Press. p. xiii. ISBN 978-0-8248-3131-8. Retrieved 17 July 2010.
^ Pawley, Andrew (1984). "Foreward (sic)". In George Pratt (ed.). A Grammar and Dictionary of the Samoan Language, with English and Samoan vocabulary (3rd and revised ed.). Papakura, New Zealand: R. McMillan. ISBN 0-908712-09-X. Retrieved 14 March 2010.
^ Arabic loanword from صِفر
^ Dutch loanword
^ "The Number System of Tongan". www.sf.airnet.ne.jp. Retrieved 26 July 2017.
^ "Hawaiian numbers". www.omniglot.com. Retrieved 26 July 2017.
^ "HAWAIIAN NUMBERS". www.mauimapp.com. Retrieved 26 July 2017.
^ a b Tualaulelei, Eseta Magaui; Mayer, Fepuleai Lasei John; Hunkin, Galumalemana A. (5 June 2015). "Diacritical Marks and the Samoan Language". The Contemporary Pacific. 27 (1): 183–207. doi:10.1353/cp.2015.0007. hdl:10125/38769. ISSN 1527-9464.
^ "Samoa Language Center in Hawai'i Receives Multi-Year Grant | Pacific Islands Report". www.pireport.org. Retrieved 29 July 2017.
^ "Samoa government makes moves to preserve language". Radio New Zealand. 29 January 2014. Retrieved 29 July 2017.
References[edit]
An Account of Samoan History up to 1918 by Teo Tuvale, NZ Licence CC-BY-SA 3.0, Retrieved 8 March 2010.
Broselow, Ellen; and McCarthy, John J. (1984). A theory of internal reduplication. The linguistic review, 3, 25–88.
Churchward, Spencer. 1951. A Samoan Grammar, 2nd ed. rev. and enl. Melbourne: Spectator Publishing Company.
Milner, G.B. 1993, 1966. Samoan Dictionary. Polynesian Press. ISBN 0-908597-12-6
Mosel, Ulrike and Even Hovdhaugen, 1992. Samoan reference grammar. Oslo: Scandinavian University Press/Institute for Comparative Research in Human Culture.
Mosel, Laʻi Ulrike and Ainslie Soʻo. Say it in Samoan. Pacific Linguistics D88. Canberra: ANU.
Payne, Thomas E. 1997. Describing morphosyntax: a guide for field linguists. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-58224-5.
External links[edit]
 Samoan  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Samoan
George Pratt (1878) A Grammar and Dictionary of the Samoan Language, Trübner & Company, London (Google eBook)
Samoan language software
Samoan Grammar
Basic Samoan Vocabulary
Samoan Language Audio Recordings
Gagana Sāmoa: A Samoan Language Coursebook (2009), Galumalemana Afeleti L. Hunkin (Programme Director, Samoan Studies, Victoria University of Wellington), University of Hawaii Press.
Samoan: Word Book (1999), Aumua Mataitusi Simanu, Luafata Simanu-Klutz, Illustrated by Regina Meredith Malala, Bess Press.
Kaipuleohone has archived index cards with words for animals and plants
Paradisec has a number of collections that includes Samoan materials
vteCentral Pacific languagesWest
Rotuman
Namosi-Naitasiri-Serua
Western Fijian
East
Fijian
Gone Dau
Lauan
Lomaiviti
PolynesianNuclearPolynesian
Tuvaluan
Sikaiana
Ontong Java
Nukumanu
Takuu
Nuguria
Kapingamarangi
Nukuoro
Pukapukan
Samoic
Samoan
Tokelauan
Niuatoputapu †
Eastern
Hawaiian
Marquesan
Mangarevan
Tahitian
Austral
Rapa
Tuamotuan
Cook Islands Māori
Rakahanga-Manihiki
Tongareva
Māori
Moriori †
Rapa Nui
Futunic
Wallisian (East Uvean)
West Uvean
Futunan (East Futunan)
Futuna-Aniwa (West Futunan)
Pukapukan
Anuta
Rennellese
Tikopia
Mele-Fila
Emae
Tongic
Tongan
Niuean
Niuafo'ou ?
* indicates proposed status ? indicates classification dispute† indicates extinct status
vteAustronesian languagesFormosan languagesRukaic
Rukai
Tsouic
Tsou
Kanakanavu
Saaroa
NorthernAtayalic
Atayal
Seediq
NorthwestFormosan
Saisiyat
Pazeh †
Kulon †
Thao
Babuza
Favorlang †
Papora-Hoanya †
EastKavalanic
Basay †
Kavalan
Luilang †
Ami
Amis
Sakizaya
Siraiyac
Siraya †
Taivoan †
Southern ?
Puyuma
Paiwan
Bunun
Malayo–PolynesianWestern branches of Malayo–PolynesianPhilippine(linkage) ?Batanic (Bashiic)
Itbayat
Ivatan
Yami
Northern Luzon
Arta
Dicamay Agta †
Ilocano
Cagayan Valley
Atta
Cagayan Agta
Ga'dang
Gaddang
Ibanag
Isnag
Itawis
Yogad
Meso-Cordilleran
Northern Alta
Southern Alta
Central Cordilleran
Balangao
Bontoc
Ifugao
Isinai
Itneg
Kalinga
Kankanaey
Tuwali
Southern Cordilleran
Bugkalot
Ibaloi
Iwaak
Kalanguya
Karao
Pangasinan
Central Luzon
Kapampangan
Hatang Kayi (Remontado)
Sambalic
Abellen
Ambala
Mag-antsi
Bolinao
Botolan
Mag-indi
Mariveleño
Sambal
Northern Mindoro
Alangan
Iraya
Tadyawan
Greater CentralPhilippineSouthern Mindoro
Buhid
Hanunoo
Tawbuid
Central PhilippineTagalogic
Filipino
Kasiguranin
Tagalog
Old Tagalog †
Batangueño
Bikol
Albay Bikol
Central Bikol
Isarog Agta
Mount Iraya Agta
Mount Iriga Agta
Pandan Bikol
Rinconada
Bisayan
Akeanon
Asi
Bantayanon
Baybay
Butuanon
Caluyanon
Capiznon
Cebuano
Boholano
Old Cebuano †
Cuyonon
Hiligaynon
Kabalian
Karay-a
Karolanos
Magahat
Masbateño
Northern Sorsogon
Onhan
Porohanon
Ratagnon
Romblomanon
Southern Sorsogon
Sulod
Surigaonon
Tausug
Waray
Mansakan
Davawenyo
Kalagan
Kamayo
Mamanwa
Mandaya
Mansaka
(unclassified)
Ata †
Palawanic
Aborlan Tagbanwa
Batak
Central Tagbanwa
Palawano
Taaw't Bato
Subanen
Western Subanon
Danao
Iranun
Maguindanao
Maranao
Manobo
Agusan
Ata Manobo
Binukid
Cotabato Manobo
Higaonon
Ilianen
Kagayanen
Kamigin
Matigsalug
Obo
Sarangani
Tagabawa
Western Bukidnon
Gorontalo–Mongondow
Bintauna
Bolango
Buol
Gorontalo
Kaidipang
Lolak
Mongondow
Ponosakan
Suwawa
Kalamian
Agutaynen
Calamian Tagbanwa
Bilic
Blaan
Tboli
Teduray
Sangiric
Bantik
Ratahan
Sangirese
Talaud
Minahasan
Tombulu
Tondano
Tonsawang
Tonsea
Tontemboan
Other branches
Ati
Klata
Umiray Dumaget
Manide–Alabat
Inagta Alabat
Manide
Greater Barito *Barito
Malagasy
Bushi
Deyah
Malang
Witu
Balangan
Ma'anyan
Paku
Lawangan
Kohin
Dohoi
Siang
Bakumpai
Ngaju
Ampanang
Tunjung
Sama–Bajaw
Abaknon
Bajaw
Mapun
Pangutaran Sama
Sama
West Coast Bajaw
Yakan
Basap *GreaterNorth Borneo *North Borneo *Northeast Sabah *
Ida'an
Bonggi
Molbog ?
Southwest Sabah *GreaterDusunic *Bisaya–Lotud
Brunei Bisaya
Lotud
Dusunic
Kadazandusun
Central Dusun
Coastal Kadazan
Kuijau
Eastern Kadazan
Kota Marudu Talantang
Rungus / Momogun
Klias River Kadazan
Paitanic
Tombonuwo
Kinabatangan
Abai Sungai
Serudung
GreaterMurutic *
Tatana ?
Papar
Murutic
Tagol
Timugon
Keningau
Selungai
Sembakung
Baukan
Okolod
Paluan
Ganaʼ
Kalabakan
Nonukan Tidong
Sesayap Tidong
North Sarawak *
Kenyah / Bakung
Sebob
Tutoh
Umaʼ Lasan
Wahau Kenyah
Penan ?
Kelabit
Lengilu
Lundayeh
Sa'ban
Tring
Berawan
Belait
Kiput
Narom
Tutong
Bintulu
Central Sarawak
Kajaman
Lahanan
Sekapan
Daro-Matu
Kanowit–Tanjong
Melanau
Bukitan
Punan Batu
Sian
Ukit
Burusu
Bah-Biau Punan
Sajau
Punan Merap
Bukat
Seru †
Lelak †
Kayanic
Kayan
Bahau
Modang
Segai
Hovongan
Aoheng
Aput
Punan
Krio Dayak
Murik
Land Dayak
Bakatiʼ
Sara
Laraʼ
Bukar–Sadong
Biatah
Tringgus
Jagoi
Jangkang
Kembayan
Semandang
Ribun
Benyaduʼ
Sanggau
Malayo–Chamic *Aceh–Chamic
Acehnese
Cham dialects
Chru
Haroi
Jarai
Rade
Roglai
Tsat
Iban–MalayanIbanic
Iban
Keninjal ?
Mualang
Remun
Seberuang
Malay
Malaysian
Indonesian
Minangkabau
Brunei/Kedayan Malay
Bamayo
Banjar
Berau Malay
Bangka Malay
Bengkulu
Col
Duanoʼ
Haji
Jambi Malay
Jakun
Kedah Malay
Kendayan / Selako ?
Kutai Malay
Kaur
Kerinci
Kelantan-Pattani Malay
Kubu
Orang Laut
Lubu
Musi
Negeri Sembilan Malay
Orang Kanaq
Orang Seletar
Pahang Malay
Pekal
Perak Malay
Pontianak Malay
Reman Malay
Sarawak Malay
Temuan
Terengganu Malay
Urak Lawoi'
Sundanese
Sundanese
Old Sundanese †
Baduy
Bantenese
Cirebonese
Rejang ?
Rejang
Moklenic ?
Moken
Moklen
Sumatran *Northwest Sumatra–Barrier Islands
Enggano ?
Gayo
Mentawai
Nias
Sikule
Simeulue
Batak
Alas
Angkola
Dairi
Karo
Simalungun
Toba
Mandailing
Nasal ?
Lampungic
Lampung
Lampung Nyo
Lampung Api
Komering
Javanese
Javanese
Kawi / Old Javanese †
Banyumasan
Osing
Tenggerese
Madurese
Madurese
Kangean
Bali–Sasak–Sumbawa
Balinese
Sasak
Sumbawa
CelebicBungku–Tolaki
Bahonsuai
Bungku
Kodeoha
Kulisusu
Moronene
Mori Bawah
Mori Atas
Padoe
Rahambuu
Tolaki
Tomadino
Waru
Wawonii
Muna–Buton
Bonerate
Busoa
Cia-Cia
Kaimbulawa
Kumbewaha
Lasalimu
Liabuku
Muna
Pancana
Tukang Besi
Saluan–Banggai
Andio
Balantak
Banggai
Batui
Bobongko
Saluan
Tomini–Tolitoli *
Balaesang
Boano ?
Dampelas
Dondo
Lauje
Pendau
Taje
Tajio
Tomini
Totoli ?
Kaili–Wolio *Kaili–Pamona
Kaili
Mbelala
Moma
Pamona
Rampi
Sarudu
Sedoa
Topoiyo
Uma
Wotu–Wolio
Kalao
Kamaru
Laiyolo
Ledo Kaili *
Wolio
Wotu
South SulawesiBugis
Buginese
Campalagian
Embaloh ?
Taman
Makassaric
Makassarese
Bentong
Coastal Konjo
Highland Konjo
Selayar
Seko–Badaic *Seko
Budong-Budong
Panasuan
Seko Padang
Seko Tengah
Badaic *
Bada
Behoa
Napu
Northern
Mamuju
Mandar
Massenrempulu
Duri
Enrekang
Maiwa
Malimpung
Pitu Ulunna Salu
Aralle-Tabulahan
Bambam
Dakka
Pannei
Ulumandaʼ
Toraja
Kalumpang
Mamasa
Pattae'
Lawa
Talondoʼ ?
Toraja-Saʼdan
Lemolang
Isolates
Chamorro
Palauan
Central Malayo-Polynesian languagesBima
Bima
Sumba–FloresSumba–HawuSavu
Hawu
Dhao
Sumba
Kambera
Mamboru
Anakalangu
Wanukaka
Pondok
Baliledo
Wejewa
Lamboya
Kodi
Gaura
Western Flores
Komodo
Manggarai
Riung
Rembong
Rajong
Kepoʼ
Wae Rana
Palu'e
Ende
Lio
Nagé-Kéo
Ngadha
Rongga
Soʼa
Flores–Lembata
Sika
Kedang
Lamaholot
Lamaholot
Alorese
Lamatuka
Lewo Eleng
Levuka
South Lembata
Lamalera
Lewotobi
Adonara
Ile Ape
Mingar
Selaru
Selaru
Seluwasan
Kei–Tanimbar ?
Kei
Fordata
Yamdena
Onin
Sekar
Uruangnirin
Aru
Barakai
Batuley
Dobel
Karey
Koba
Kola
Lola
Lorang
Manombai
Mariri
Tarangan
Ujir
Timoric *
Helong
Tetum
Uab Meto
Amarasi
Central Timor *
Kemak
Tukudede
Mambai
Bekais
Wetar–Galoli ?
Wetar
Galoli
Kawaimina
Kairui
Waimoa
Midiki
Naueti ?
Habun ?
Luangic–Kisaric ?
Romang
Kisar
Leti
Luang
Makuva
Rote–Meto *
Bilba
Dengka
Lole
Ringgou
Dela-Oenale
Termanu
Tii
Babar
Idalaka
West Damar
Dawera-Daweloor
North Babar
Dai
Masela
Serili
Southeast Babar
Emplawas
Imroing
Telaʼa
Southwest Maluku
East Damar
Teun
Nila
Serua
Kowiai ?
Kowiai
Central Maluku *
Teor-Kur
West
Ambelau
Buru
Lisela
Hukumina †
Moksela †
Sula
Mangole
Taliabo
East
Banda
Bati
Geser
Watubela
Bobot
Masiwang
Hoti †
Benggoi
Salas
Liana
Nunusaku
Kayeli †
Nuaulu
Huaulu
Manusela
Wemale
Yalahatan
Piru Bay ?
Asilulu
Luhu
Manipa
Wakasihu
Boano
Sepa-Teluti
Paulohi
Kaibobo
Hitu
Tulehu
Laha
Seit-Kaitetu
Kamarian †
Haruku
Amahai
Nusa Laut
Saparua
Latu
Eastern Malayo-Polynesian languagesSHWNG
Tandia †
Mor
Waropen
Warembori ?
Yoke ?
Halmahera SeaAmbel–Biga
Ambel
Biga
Maya–Matbat
Ma'ya
Matbat
Maden
Maden
Fiawat
As
As
South Halmahera
Gane
Taba
Buli
Maba
Patani
Sawai
Gebe
CenderawasihBiakic
Biak
Dusner †
Meoswar
Roon
Yapen
Ambai
Ansus
Marau
Wamesa
Wooi
Munggui
Papuma
Pom
Serui-Laut
Kurudu
Wabo
Southwest
Yaur
Yerisiam
Umar
OceanicAdmiralty
Yapese ?
Eastern
Manus
Baluan-Pam
Lenkau
Lou
Nauna
Penchal
Western
Northern Kaniet †
Southern Kaniet †
Seimat
Wuvulu
Aua
Saint Matthias
Mussau-Emira
Tenis
TemotuUtupua
Amba
Asumboa
Tanimbili
Vanikoro
Teanu
Lovono
Tanema
Reefs–Santa Cruz
Äiwoo
Engdewu / Nanggu
Natügu / Santa Cruz
Nalögo
Noipx
SoutheastSolomonicGela–Guadalcanal
Bugotu
Gela
Lengo
Birao
Ghari
Malango
Talise
Malaita–San Cristobal
Longgu
Sa'a
Arosi
Fagani
Bauro
Kahua
Owa
Marau Wawa ? †
Toʼabaita
Baelelea
Baeggu
Fataleka
Lau
Kwara'ae
Wala
Gula'alaa
Kwaio
Dori'o
ꞋAreꞌare
Oroha
WesternOceanicMeso–MelanesianWillaumez
Bola
Bulu
Meramera
Nakanai
Bali-Vitu
Bali
Vitu
New Ireland–NorthwestSolomonicTungag–Nalik
Kara
Laxudumau
Nalik
Tiang
Tigak
Tungag
Tabar
Lihir
Madara
Notsi
Madak
Barok
Lavatbura–Lamusong
Madak
St. George
Bilur
Fanamaket
Guramalum †
Kandas
Konomala
Label
Lungalunga
Niwer Mil
Patpatar
Ramoaaina
Siar
Sursurunga
Tangga
Tolai
NorthwestSolomonic
Babatana
Bannoni
Blablanga
Cheke Holo
Gao
Ghanongga
Hahon
Hakö
Halia
Hoava
Kazukuru †
Kokota
Kusaghe
Laghu †
Lungga
Marovo
Mono-Alu
Nduke
Nehan
Papapana
Petats
Piva
Ririo
Roviana
Saposa
Simbo
Solos
Teop
Tinputz
Torau
Ughele
Uruava †
Vaghua
Vangunu
Varisi
Zabana
Zazao
Tomoip
NorthNew GuineaSarmi–Jayapura ?
Anus
Bonggo
Kayupulau
Liki
Masimasi
Ormu
Podena
Kaptiau
Sobei
Tarpia
Tobati
Wakde
Yamna
Schouten
Arop-Sissano
Sera
Sissano
Ulau-Suain
Tumleo
Yakamul
Kaiep
Kairiru
Terebu
Biem
Kis
Manam
Medebur
Sepa
Wogeo
Huon Gulf
Bukawa
Kela
Yabem
Aribwatsa †
Aribwaung
Adzera
Dangal
Duwet
Labu
Maralango
Mari
Musom
Nafi
Silisili
Wampar
Wampur
Hote
Iwal
Kapin
Kumalu
Mangga Buang
Mapos Buang
Mumeng
Piu
Vehes
Yamap
Numbami
Ngero–Vitiaz
Bariai
Gitua
Kove
Lusi
Malalamai
Mutu
Awad Bing
Bilibil
Gedaged
Marik
Matukar
Mindiri
Takia
Wab
Lamogai
Mouk-Aria
Aigon
Karore
Kaulong †
Miu
Sengseng
Aiklep
Akolet
Apalik
Avau
Bebeli
Gimi
Lesing-Gelimi
Mangseng
Solong
Lote
Mamusi
Mengen
Arop-Lukep
Karnai
Malasanga
Mur Pano
Mato
Ronji
Amara
Maleu
Mbula
Sio
Tami
Papuan TipNuclear
ʼAuhelawa
Buhutu
Bwanabwana
Oya'oya
Saliba
Suau
Unubahe
Wagawaga
Bwaidoka
Diodio
Iamalele
Iduna
Koluwawa
Maiadomu
Bunama
Boselewa
Dobu
Duau
Galeya
Molima
Mwatebu
Sewa Bay
Dawawa
Kakabai
Are
Arifama-Miniafia
Doga
Gapapaiwa
Ghayavi
Kaninuwa
Ubir
Gweda
Haigwai
Maiwala
Minaveha
Taupota
Tawala
Yakaikeke
Anuki
Gumawana
Kilivila–Misima
Budibud
Kilivila
Misima
Muyuw
Nimoa–Sudest
Nimoa
Sudest
SouthernOceanicNorthVanuatuTorres–Banks
Dorig
Hiw
Koro
Lakon
Lehali
Lemerig
Lo-Toga
Löyöp
Mota
Mwerlap
Mwesen
Mwotlap
Nume
Olrat
Vera’a
Volow
Vurës
Maewo–Ambae–North Pentecost
Baetora
Duidui
Northeast Ambae
Raga
Sun̄wadaga
Sun̄wadia
South Pentecost
Apma
Sa
Ske
Sowa †
Espiritu Santo
Akei
Aore †
Araki
Cape Cumberland
Nokuku
Kiai
M̈av̈ea
Merei-Tiale
Mores
Sakao
Shark Bay
Tamambo
Tangoa
Tasiriki
Tolomako
Tutuba
Wusi
NuclearSouthernOceanicCentral Vanuatu
North Efate
Nafsan
Efatese
Eton
Lelepa
Makura
Daakaka
Dalkalaen
Lonwolwol
Paamese
Port Vato
Southeast Ambrym
Epi
Baki
Bierebo
Bieria
Lamen
Lewo
Maii
Malakula
Aulua
Avava
Aveteian
Axamb
Big Nambas
Botovro
Burmbar
Bwenelang
Larëvat
Lendamboi
Litzlitz
Malfaxal
Malua Bay
Maskelynes
Nahavaq
Nasarian
Nasvang
Nāti
Navwien
Nese
Neve'ei
Neverver
Ninde
Nisvai
Nitita
Port Sandwich
Rerep
Sörsörian
Tape
Tirax
Unua
Northeast Malakula
Vao
Vivti
Rutan
Alovas
Najit
Njav
South VanuatuErromango
Erromanga / Sie
Sorung †
Ura
Utaha / Ifo †
Tanna
Kwamera / South Tanna
Lenakel / West Tanna
North Tanna
Southwest Tanna
Whitesands / East Tanna
Aneityum
Loyalties–New CaledoniaLoyalty Islands
Drehu
Iaai
Nengone
New CaledonianSouthern
Ajië
Arhâ
Arhö
Ndrumbea
Neku
Numèè
Orowe
Tîrî
Xârâcùù
Xârâgurè
Zire †
Northern
Bwatoo
Caac
Cèmuhî
Fwâi
Haeke
Haveke
Hmwaveke
Jawe
Kumak
Nemi
Nyâlayu
Paicî
Pije
Pwaamei
Pwapwâ
Vamale
Waamwang †
Yuanga
Micronesian
Nauruan
NuclearMicronesian
Gilbertese
Kosraean
Marshallese
Chuukic–PohnpeicChuukic
Carolinian
Chuukese
Mapia †
Mortlockese
Namonuito
Pááfang
Puluwatese
Satawalese
Sonsorol
Tanapag
Tobian
Ulithian
Woleaian
Pohnpeic
Mokilese
Ngatikese
Pingelapese
Pohnpeian
CentralPacificWest
Namosi-Naitasiri-Serua
Rotuman
Western Fijian
East
Fijian
Gone Dau
Lauan
Lomaiviti
PolynesianNuclearPolynesian
Kapingamarangi
Nuguria
Nukumanu
Nukuoro
Ontong Java
Sikaiana
Takuu
Tuvaluan
Samoic
Niuatoputapu †
Samoan
Tokelauan
Eastern
Austral
Cook Islands Māori
Hawaiian
Mangareva
Māori
Moriori †
Marquesan
Penrhyn
Rakahanga-Manihiki
Rapa
Rapa Nui
Tahitian
Tuamotuan
Futunic
Anuta
Emae
Futuna-Aniwa / West Futunan
Futunan / East Futunan
Mele-Fila
Pukapukan
Rennellese
Tikopia
Wallisian / East Uvean
West Uvean
Tongic
Niuafoʻou ?
Niuean
Tongan
* indicates proposed status ? indicates classification dispute† indicates extinct status
vteLanguages of Oceania Sovereign states
Australia
Federated States of Micronesia
Fiji
Kiribati
Marshall Islands
Nauru
New Zealand
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
Associated statesof New Zealand
Cook Islands
Niue
Dependenciesand other territories
American Samoa
Christmas Island
Clipperton Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Easter Island
French Polynesia
Guam
Hawaii
New Caledonia
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Pitcairn Islands
Tokelau
Wallis and Futuna
vteSamoa articlesHistory
Archaeology
First Civil War
Crisis
1889 Apia cyclone
Second Civil War
Colonial governors
Tripartite Convention
German Samoa
New Zealand occupation
World War II
Trust Territory
Independence
2009 earthquake
2021 constitutional crisis
Geography
Bays
Cities, towns and villages
Districts
Earthquakes
Fauna
Samoan plant names
Hotspot
Protected areas
Rivers
Samoan Islands
Silisili (mountain)
Politics
Cabinet
Constitution
Elections
Faʻamatai (chiefly system)
Foreign relations
Law enforcement
Military
Ministries
O le Ao o le Malo (head of state)
Parliament
Political parties
Prime Minister
Deputy Prime Minister
Economy
Tālā (currency)
Western Samoan pound (historic)
Telecommunications
.ws
Transport
Society
Anthem
Architecture
Cinema
Coat of arms
Culture
Dance
Demographics
Ethnicity
Faʻa Sāmoa
Flag
Language
Literature
Music
Proverbs
Public holidays
Religion
Sports
ʻAva ceremony
Outline
Category
Authority control: National 
Germany
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Samoan_language&oldid=1172137242"
Categories: Samoan languageSamoic languagesVerb–subject–object languagesHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18CS1 maint: location missing publisherArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from January 2020Articles needing additional references from July 2022All articles needing additional referencesLanguage articles with IETF language tagLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing Samoan-language textArticles with GND identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 25 August 2023, at 05:43 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width