Linux not Windows: Why Munich is shifting back from Microsoft to open source – again | ZDNET
                                         />                                                                                                                                                                                                   X     Trending    
I tried Apple Vision Pro and it's far ahead of where I expected What is ChatGPT and why does it matter? Is Temu legit? What to know about this shopping app before you place an order Special Feature: Unlock the Full Power of Your Phone  ZDNET Recommends These $400 XR glasses gave my MacBook a 120-inch screen to work with The best earbuds you can buy Google Pixel Fold review: Samsung's first big competitor comes out swinging Smart home starter pack: 5 devices that will make your life easier Mesh routers vs. Wi-Fi routers: What's best for your home office?  Best smartphones Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best headphones Best robot vacuums  Tech    Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs  Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services  Tablets TVs Wearables  Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors  Innovation    Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy  Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life  Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society  Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023  Business    See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce  Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft  Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows  Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles  Security      See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN  Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud  Advice      Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews  Buying Guides    See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs  Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs  Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches  Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs   tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today       
          Asia
        
          Australia
        
          Europe
        
          India
        
          United Kingdom
        
          United States
         ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan        Go  Most Popular          See all Topics Finance Education Health  Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends  Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines        Trending  I tried Apple Vision Pro and it's far ahead of where I expected What is ChatGPT and why does it matter? Is Temu legit? What to know about this shopping app before you place an order Special Feature: Unlock the Full Power of Your Phone ZDNET Recommends These $400 XR glasses gave my MacBook a 120-inch screen to work with The best earbuds you can buy Google Pixel Fold review: Samsung's first big competitor comes out swinging Smart home starter pack: 5 devices that will make your life easier Mesh routers vs. Wi-Fi routers: What's best for your home office? Best smartphones Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best headphones Best robot vacuums Tech  Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation  Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business  See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security  See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice  Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides  See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More  See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines  Business     
      Home
    
      Business
    
      Enterprise Software
      
    Linux not Windows: Why Munich is shifting back from Microsoft to open source – again
   
    Munich's flip-flop back to open source is the latest sign of Germany's political sea change over proprietary software.
      Written by 
            Cathrin Schaer, Contributor   
        on
        May 14, 2020                 In a notable U-turn for the city, newly elected politicians in Munich have decided that its administration needs to use open-source software, instead of proprietary products like Microsoft Office. "Where it is technologically and financially possible, the city will put emphasis on open standards and free open-source licensed software," a new coalition agreement negotiated between the recently elected Green party and the Social Democrats says.Open Source 
          GitHub vs GitLab: Which program is right for you?
        
          The best Linux distros for beginners
        
          Feren OS is a Linux distribution that's as lovely as it is easy to use
        
          How to add new users to your Linux machine
        The agreement was finalized Sunday and the parties will be in power until 2026. "We will adhere to the principle of 'public money, public code'. That means that as long as there is no confidential or personal data involved, the source code of the city's software will also be made public," the agreement states.SEE: 20 quick tips to make Linux networking easier (free PDF)    The decision is being hailed as a victory by advocates of free software, who see this as a better option economically, politically, and in terms of administrative transparency. However, the decision by the new coalition administration in Germany's third largest and one of its wealthiest cities is just the latest twist in a saga that began over 15 years ago in 2003, spurred by Microsoft's plans to end support for Windows NT 4.0. Because the city needed to find a replacement for aging Microsoft Windows workstations, Munich eventually began the move away from proprietary software at the end of 2006. At the time, the migration was seen as an ambitious, pioneering project for open software in Europe. It involved open-standard formats, vendor-neutral software and the creation of a unique desktop infrastructure based on Linux code named 'LiMux' – a combination of Linux and Munich. By 2013, 80% of desktops in the city's administration were meant to be running LiMux software. In reality, the council continued to run the two systems – Microsoft and LiMux –   side by side for several years to deal with compatibility issues. As the result of a change in the city's government, a controversial decision was made in 2017 to leave LiMux and move back to Microsoft by 2020. At the time, critics of the decision blamed the mayor and deputy mayor and cast a suspicious eye on the US software giant's decision to move its headquarters to Munich. In interviews, a former Munich mayor, under whose administration the LiMux program began, has been candid about the efforts Microsoft went to to retain their contract with the city. The migration back to Microsoft and to other proprietary software makers like Oracle and SAP, costing an estimated €86.1m ($93.1m), is still in progress today. "We're very happy that they're taking on the points in the 'Public Money, Public Code' campaign we started two and a half years ago," Alex Sander, EU public policy manager at the Berlin-based Free Software Foundation Europe, tells ZDNet. But it's also important to note that this is just a statement in a coalition agreement outlining future plans, he says. "Nothing will change from one day to the next, and we wouldn't expect it to," Sander continued, noting that the city would also be waiting for ongoing software contracts to expire. "But the next time there is a new contract, we believe it should involve free software." Any such step-by-step transition can be expected to take years. But it is also possible that Munich will be able to move faster than most because they are not starting from zero, Sander noted. It can be assumed that some LiMux software is still in use and that some of the staff there would have used it before. The Free Software Foundation Europe would like to see the Munich city council come up with a road map for achieving its goals, after the new council settles into office – maybe after 100 days or so, Sander says. Windows 10 
          Is Windows 10 too popular for its own good?
        
          The top Windows laptops compared
        
          How to recover deleted files in Windows 10 or 11
        
          Here's how you can still get a free Windows 10 upgrade
        
          Windows 11 setup: Which user account type should you choose?
        
          How to run a Windows app on Linux with Wine
        This new back-and-forth has already been criticized, both for the costs that it will entail, the time wasted and just the general indecisiveness. The "spinners in Munich" are trying to get a better deal out of Microsoft, one reader on a German tech site complained. "This is a political rather than a rational decision," another suggested. Basanta Thapa, a digital government expert at the Fraunhofer Institute for Open Communication Systems in Berlin, agrees that these decisions are political. "They're not purely technical and, in my opinion, that is not necessarily a bad thing," he says.In technical terms, neither system is necessarily better than the other when it comes to contemporary usage, he tells ZDNet, pointing to various studies that have come to the same conclusion. Usually there are two main sticking points, he says: user acceptance, which involves training people on new systems, and the interface between open and closed software. That can be anything from getting an Open Office document to read on another desktop, to programs that city councils have had written especially for, say, school registrations, tendering contracts or rubbish collections. "There are also issues such as being locked into a contract that could eventually get more expensive," Thapa says, "and whether open source is less expensive in the long run, even if switching over incurs costs now." So these kinds of decisions must come down to political philosophies about the marketplace as well as increasingly important issues like digital sovereignty. This issue is one reason why this time Munich is unlikely –   or any other German city or state – to flip-flop on open-source software decisions again. Commercial interests are at stake and political factions will continue to struggle with this issue but, as Fraunhofer's Thapa notes, "There's a different climate altogether around free open-source software." The discussion about how Germany, and Europe, achieve more 'digital sovereignty' is a big part of this. Increasingly, German politicians recognize that many of their IT systems are too beholden to foreign brands like Huawei and Microsoft. Also, in the decade and a half since Munich first started on this course, open-source software has become a worldwide trend. Where previously the LiMux program was something of a flagship model, now, thanks to its five-year hiatus, it's been overshadowed by other European cities like Barcelona, Madrid, and Paris, all of which operate their own ambitious projects in this area. In Barcelona, for example, up to 70% of the city's IT budget goes toward free software and a whole ecosystem has evolved around local developers. Germany has a lot of catching up to do, the experts suggest, even as big cities like Berlin, Dortmund, and Leipzig have started their own free software initiatives. A number of smaller German towns and municipalities – Leonberg in the state of Baden-Württemberg and Treuchtlingen in Bavaria are notable examples – have also forged ahead in this area although admittedly it's easier to migrate 40 desktops than around 15,000, as Munich did. Sander notes that at their party conference in November last year, even Angela Merkel's normally conservative Christian Democratic (CDU) party set their sights on free software.For future digital projects, "procurement and support will be bound by the principles of open source and open standards. Publicly financed software should serve all citizens," the party's statement said, echoing the Free Software Foundation's own campaign. SEE: Programming languages: Python apps might soon be running on AndroidOf course, that's only a statement of political intent, the Foundation's Sander notes. But if the CDU remains in power, that could eventually become the official position of the whole German government. One current ministry, the Federal Ministry of the Interior, has already taken a similar line. It commissioned consultancy PwC to look into how Germany could achieve more digital sovereignty and become less dependent on vendors like Microsoft.One of the August 2019 study's recommendations was investing in more open-source software. While outlining various challenges, the analysts also said, "Ultimately, this option may conceivably lead to permanent independence from major vendors." It's worth noting that the politician in charge of that ministry is Horst Seehofer, a member of the same political party, the conservative Christian Social Union, as the former deputy mayor of Munich is, who is often perceived as one of the prime movers against the LiMux project there. So far, it's more words than deeds, the Fraunhofer Institute's Thapa concedes. As yet, none of the big players appears to have lost significant business to the free software movement in Germany. But it seems likely that commercial vendors will have a tougher time here in the near future. "I find it very exciting that Munich is back," Thapa concludes. "The door of opportunity is open again and maybe this time they will go all the way through." ZDNet has contacted Microsoft for comment and will update this article if there is a response.Developer    
          It's the end of programming as we know it -- again
         
          Developers feel secure in their jobs, but they're still thinking about quitting
         
          The future of the web will need a different sort of software developer
         
          The best Linux laptops for consumers and developers
            
            It's the end of programming as we know it -- again
           
            Developers feel secure in their jobs, but they're still thinking about quitting
           
            The future of the web will need a different sort of software developer
           
            The best Linux laptops for consumers and developers
           Editorial standards  Show Comments  
          Log In to Comment
         Community Guidelines     Related   
      Here's another reason why Linux is way cooler than your operating system
      
      Debian Linux founder Ian Murdock would have been amazed at its legacy
      
      Maybe Bing isn't trying to compete with Google after all
              ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
    Log InNewslettersSite AssistanceLicensing     
  © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
 Privacy Policy |
  Cookie Settings |
  Advertise |
  Terms of Use 