Microsoft ‘killed Dell Linux’ – States • The Register    
261 captures
09 Apr 2004 - 16 Jul 2023
Jun
JUL
Aug
17
2016
2017
2018
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Archive Team
 Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.
The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.
This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. 
Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.
The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. 
Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler
  ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites).
To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently.
There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com.
ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20170717220530/http://www.theregister.co.uk/2002/03/19/microsoft_killed_dell_linux_states/
M³
CLL
Events
Whitepapers
The Next Platform
                Data Center
            
                Software
            
                Security
            
                Transformation
            
                DevOps
            
                Business
            
                Personal Tech
            
                Science
            
                Emergent Tech
            
                Bootnotes
            
                            Servers
                        
                            HPC
                        
                            Cloud
                        
                            Storage
                        
                            Networks
                        
                            Virtualization
                        
                            BOFH
                        
Western Digital wins California court skirmish against Toshiba
Flash firm Kaminario lays off half of UK team
Presto crypto: IBM releases gruntier, faster Z14 mainframe
UK.gov embraces Oracle's cloud: Pragmatism or defeatism?
Apache says 'no' to Facebook code libraries
Three Microsoft Outlook patches unpatched, users left to DIY
Linus Torvalds may have damned systemd with faint praise
Open-source world resurrects Oracle-free Solaris project OmniOS
Cisco plugs command-injection hole in WebEx Chrome, Firefox plugins
Forgotten your Myspace password? Just a name, username, DoB will get you in – and into anyone else's, too
Facebook users pwnd by phone with account recovery vulnerability
Ashley Madison throws US$11.2m on the bed to mop up leak affair
HPE PointNext globo boss grilled by El Reg
Reg Radicals lecture encompasses far right, libertarians, and mushrooms...
So despite all the cash ploughed into big data, no one knows how to make it profitable
HPE: You're rubbish at hybrid cloud – so we'll cook a NüStack to fix it
Redis releases respectable revision, tiptoes through tricky political terminology
U Vlad bro? Docker accidentally cuts off Ukraine
Continuous Lifecycle 2018 call for papers is open NOW
GitHub acknowledges autocrats with 'code owner' feature
                            Policy
                        
                            The Channel
                        
Juicy fine for Bradford firm after blurting one million spam texts
Google must cough up contact info for 8,000 employees in gender discrimination case
Media mogul Murdoch's 'Sky dataset' swallow poses 'grave threat'
Nearly three-quarters of convicted TV Licence non-payers are women
Stop this crazy crusade! Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Amazon tell FCC over net neutrality
HTC so sorry it jammed pop-up adverts into your smartphone keyboards
The Atari retro games box is real… sort of
Radiohead hides ZX Spectrum proggie in OK Computer re-release
                            Geek's Guide
                        
Google unleashes 20m lab-created blood-thirsty freaks on a city. And this is a good thing, it says
DARPA's robot sat-fixing program survives sueball strike
Physicists send supersonic shock waves rippling through a lab
Eggheads identify the last animal that will survive on Earth until the Sun dies
                            Artificial Intelligence
                        
                            Internet of Things
                        
AI bots will kill us all! Or at least may seriously inconvenience humans
The hidden horse power driving Machine Learning models
Brit neural net pioneer just revolutionised speech recognition all over again
Juicero does to its staff what your hands can do to its overpriced juice sacks
                            Verity Stob
                        
Jodie Who-ttaker? The Doctor is in
Jesus walks away after 7,000lb pipe van incident
Truck spills slimy load all over Oregon road – drivers slip in eel slick
What can you do with adult VR, some bronze gears and a robotic thumb? On a Friday?
Software
Microsoft ‘killed Dell Linux’ – States
Carry On Kempin
                        
                            By Andrew Orlowski
                            19 Mar 2002 at 10:35
                        
SHARE ▼
Microsoft sharpshooter Joachim Kempin, who was convicted of illegally shooting antelope in Montana in 1998, has been turning his guns on a more familiar target: Microsoft's own OEM customers.
The States' remedy hearing opened in DC yesterday, and States attorney Steven Kuney produced a devastating memo from Kempin, then in charge of Microsoft's OEM business, written after Judge Jackson had ordered his break-up of the company. Kempin raises the possibility of threatening Dell and other PC builders which promote Linux.
"I'm thinking of hitting the OEMs harder than in the past with anti-Linux. ... they should do a delicate dance," Kempin wrote to Ballmer, in what is sure to be a memorable addition to the phrases ("knife the baby", "cut off the air supply") with which Microsoft enriched the English language in the first trial. Unlike those two, this is not contested.
The bullets aimed Spaghetti Western-style at the feet of the dancing OEMs translate to Microsoft withholding source code, according to the memo.
For these details we're indebted to eWeek's Darryl Taft, who unlike some his fellow reporters, appeared to stay for the afternoon session of the hearing. His account of the day's proceedings can be found here, and includes the delicious detail that late in the afternoon, Sun Microsystems was desperately trying to close the session, arguing that cross examination would reveal confidential information submitted under seal.
Reuters also mentions the Linux threat in passing, but compare and contrast with The New York Times, which doesn't. CNET and Wired simply carry the Reuters report.
Earlier memos described that it was "untenable" that a key Microsoft partner was promoting Linux. Kuney revealed that Dell disbanded its Linux business unit in early 2001. Dell quietly pulled Linux from its desktop PCs in the summer of 2001, IDG's Ashlee Vance discovered subsequently, six months after we heard Michael Dell declare his love of Linux on the desktop the previous winter.
Compaq was also mentioned in other memos, with Microsoft taking the line that OEMs should "meet demand but not help create demand" for Linux.
Kempin was Microsoft's chief OEM enforcer in the second half of the nineties, contributing a string of memorable memos to the 1998 Trial, and takes the credit for ensuring that the price of a Windows rose as the price of PCs were falling, during this period.
"The plaintiffs are not here to punish Microsoft - the plaintiffs' goals are to make Microsoft behave properly," argued a States' attorney. But how? Short of obliging the executives to wear antelope horns and race in front of an SUV under a hail of rifle fire, it's hard to see what language they understand. ®
Carry on Kempin
Cut a deal or you don't get Win95 - IBM faces PC suicide
Secret deals MS uses to control PC companies
MS OEM VP to IBM: dump Lotus and we'll cut a deal
MS exec's hunting trip: illegally chased and shot 4 antelopes
MS paid $50k to buy 'Compaq of Europe' out of DR-DOS deal
MS exec in shock Windows is great white whale claim
MS pricing strategy exposed - cheap when there's competition, but...
Kempin, star MS enforcer, gets Ballmer special projects gig
                        Tips and corrections
                    
Most read
Linus Torvalds may have damned systemd with faint praise
                
Radiohead hides ZX Spectrum proggie in OK Computer re-release
                
Google unleashes 20m lab-created blood-thirsty freaks on a city. And this is a good thing, it says
                
IETF moves meeting from USA to Canada to dodge Trump travel ban
                
Burglary in mind? Easy, just pwn the home alarm
                
Whitepapers
Composable IT - is a single technology platform even possible?
                    All this new technology, so many capabilities, so many options it can be difficult to see the wood for the trees. But could it all be run on a single platform?
                
Top Reasons NetBackup Beats Veeam
                    NetBackup unified data protection protects all data no matter where it lives: virtual, physical or in the cloud.
                
Addressing the Storage Challenges of Digital Video Workflow
                    The raw data ingestion requirements continue to intensify with next generation video capture technologies.
                
Customer Communication Management in the Cloud
                    What role does customer communication management play today in financial services firms’ business?
                
Sponsored links
Need compute capacity quickly? Learn how to burst applications to the cloud without big data moves. Download ebook.
Know Your Infrastructure - On Prem and in the Cloud
Get The Register's Headlines in your inbox daily - quick signup!
About us
Who we are
Under the hood
Contact us
Advertise with us
More content
Week’s headlines
Top 20 stories
Alerts
Whitepapers
Situation Publishing
The Next Platform
Continuous Lifecycle London
M-cubed
Webinars
The Register - Independent news and views for the tech sector. Part of Situation Publishing
Sign up to our Newsletters
Join our daily or weekly newsletters, subscribe to a specific section or set News alerts
Subscribe
Biting the hand that feeds IT © 1998–2017
Cookies
Privacy
Ts&Cs