Fandom | Homepage
Skip to Page Contents
        What is Fandom?
      
        About Us
      
        Advertise
      
        Careers
      
        News
      
FOR THE LOVE OF FANS
Fandom is the world's largest entertainment & gaming fan platform. We help 350 million people worldwide go deeper on their favorite games, entertainment and culture with unique tools, memorable experiences, original content and commerce. We reach more fans, across more fandoms, than anyone. And we do it all for the love of fans.
Fandom is a fan's constant companion as they explore, celebrate and engage with their favorite fictional worlds.
 
 
AUTHORITATIVE FAN COMMUNITIES
Our communities are a one-stop-shop for both existing and new fans to explore their fandoms, diving deep on stories, characters and lore.
 We're a resource to fans in 80 languages across 200 countries - including the Vatican City (It seems someone has been bingeing the Young Pope?)
 From Halo Infinite to Hulu Originals, Game of Thrones to Golden Girls, fans have come together to build communities on our platform for just about every movie, tv show, video game or cultural phenomenon out there.
 Fans use our platform to document their favorite fictional worlds, creating millions of pages of specific content. How specific? We have 74 pages about the furniture of Star Wars alone.
        POWERED BY THE PASSION OF OUR COMMUNITY
      
 
Lenhi
Steven Universe Wiki Admin
"Fandom gave me the opportunity to meet and collaborate with people from all walks of life, many of whom have become some of my closest friends."
 
Jayce
WarriorCats & Council Member
"To me, Fandom is a place where you never stop learning, both about yourself and about others. We are like one giant family, every time I log on and I find myself in one of the most accepting and welcoming communities that I've ever had the chance of being a member of."
 
James
Leaguepedia Admin
"Fandom has allowed me to connect with people from all across the world that are super passionate about the same things as me. Before I started editing, I knew very few people with the same interests - now I have a group of friends that I for sure would not have met otherwise. For years now, we have worked together to build and maintain a valuable resource that can be used and enjoyed by our community, and I'm incredibly proud of what we have achieved together."
 
Scott
Streamerpedia Admin
"Being part of StreamerPedia gives me a great chance to tell people about the amazing content creators on all platforms and their communities."
A VITAL RESOURCE FOR MILLIONS OF GAMERS
0
M
Gaming Users Globally
0
K+
Video Games Catalogued
0
B
Gaming Questions Answered Per Month
Gaming Brands Fans Love
Fandom offers gamers tools, content, and experiences to help them power up.
 
GameSpot provides more than a million daily visitors with comprehensive, engaging and unbiased game information for console, PC, and mobile platforms. The site's award-winning coverage includes previews and reviews on the hottest titles, breaking news, live gameplay streams, original shows, videos, guides, hints and more.www.gamespot.com
 
With a selection of over 8,000 officially licensed games from more than 1,000 publishers, Fanatical is on a mission to help gamers from all over the world find amazing games at amazing prices.www.fanatical.com
 
GameFAQs is home to a database of over 20 million answers, guides, cheats, and topics about more than 200,000 games https://gamefaqs.gamespot.com/
 
The world's largest eSports leagues dedicated to Madden and FIFA. www.muthead.com / www.futhead.com
 
The Worldwide Leader in Games Entertainment™ Giant Bomb is a video game website and wiki that includes personality-driven gaming videos, commentary, news, and reviews.https://www.giantbomb.com/
Entertainment Brands Fans Trust
Fandom helps fans get closer to the entertainment they love.
 
TV Guide is a multi-platform digital media brand that help millions of people get the most out of their screen time, with a robust catalog of movies and TV shows, an app tailored to your interests and streaming subscriptions, and hand-picked recommendations, reviews, and commentary from a team of pop culture experts.https://www.tvguide.com/
 
Metacritic's mission is to help consumers make an informed decision about how to spend their time and money on entertainment. We believe that multiple opinions are better than one, user voices can be as important as critics, and opinions must be scored to be easy to use.https://www.metacritic.com/
 
The largest comic database online, Comic Vine features comic reviews, news, videos, and forums for the latest in comics, comics culture and more! https://comicvine.gamespot.com...
 
FAN-FORWARD ORIGINAL CONTENT
Fandom's award-winning content team is behind some of the most beloved fan-centric video series on the internet.
0
M
Subscribers
0
M+
Social Followers
0
B
Minutes Watched
0
M
Monthly Views
Fandom creates videos that help fans celebrate all the things they love about entertainment - whether we dive into a professional psych evaluation on a super villain, recap everything you need to know before streaming the new season of a hit series or rate the tastiest foods ever to appear in a video game, we're finding new, fan-friendly ways to dig deeper on all your favorites..
          Honest Trailers
        
Honest Trailers is an Emmy-nominated series that reimagines movie trailers if they were brutally honest. After 400 episodes, and extensions into gaming and streaming, Honest Trailers have built a strong following, with more than 7M subscribers, more than 1M streams per episode, and cameos from some of the biggest voices in entertainment including Ryan Reynolds and Patton Oswalt.
SOCIAL FAN SERVICE
When news breaks in the world of entertainment and gaming, Fandom's top-notch social team is there, delivering vital information, hot takes, and tasty memes.
        See More on Instagram
      
        See More on Twitter
      
Fandom Live & Virtual Events
A core part of the fan experience is coming together with others to celebrate shared interests.- Fandom has fans covered, both virtually and IRL. Fandom's live events give fans the connection and immersion they crave around their favorite entertainment. And when meeting up IRL just isn't an option, we also offer a full suite of virtual experiences proven to bring fans together online.
Explore Properties
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
TV Guide
Metacritic
Giant Bomb
Muthead
Futhead
Overview
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms Of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Community
Community Central
Support
Help
Do Not Sell My Info
Advertise
Media Kit
Contact
Follow Us
View our twitter
View our youtube
View our instagram
View our linkedin