Elaiussa Sebaste, Archaeology Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Elaiussa Sebaste, Archaeology9 FollowersRecent papers in Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleDAĞLIK KİLİKİA LİMAN VE TİCARET KENTİ, ELAIUSSA SEBASTE:  GEÇ ROMA KIRMIZI ASTARLI “D GRUBU”NA AİT SERVİS KAPLARISave to LibraryDownloadby Asena Kızılarslanoğlu•  5  Cypriot Archaeology, Late Roman Pottery, Red slip ware, Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyKızılarslanoğlu, H. A., “Elaiussa Sebaste’den Kos Prototipli Dressel (DR) 2-4 Amphoraları”, Prof. Dr. Cevat BAŞARAN Anı Kitabı, 2019, s. 57-86.Cos Prototyped Dressel 2-4 Amphorae from Elaiussa Sebaste Abstract Elaiussa Sebaste, laying in Cilicia Tracheia, in current borders of Mersin (Turkey), had played a signifi cant role in commerces in the Mediterranean since Hellenistic... moreCos Prototyped Dressel 2-4 Amphorae from Elaiussa SebasteAbstractElaiussa Sebaste, laying in Cilicia Tracheia, in current borders of Mersin (Turkey), had playeda signifi cant role in commerces in the Mediterranean since Hellenistic Period to 7th century AD,due to its geographic position and natural seaports. Commercial activities of the city spreadto various regions from Rhodian to Spain after its population raised, and wine and olive oilproduction increased, in the Roman period. During the city’s excavations many amphorae werefound, especially on the island side, where the seaports were located, which provide evidence forthese commercial relations. In this paper, we aim to examine the Dressel 2-4 amphorae discoveredamong the remains of a kiln in the area called “A3 Terrace” in the southern port of Elaiussa Sebasteancient city. The mentioned amphora group was found together with the amphorae produced inSpain, Italy, the Aegean islands and Cyprus, dated between BC 2nd and AD 2nd centuries, as well aswith sigillata, lamp, comman ware, coarse ware and cooking pots. Dressel 2-4 amphorae, whichconstitute a large group produced as an imitation in the Roman Period, are the only form used forwine transport and accepted as a prototype across the Roman imperial territory. Its fi rst prototypewas from East Greece, especially the one produced in Kos. Its imitative production was made alsoin different sites from East Mediterranean, to Gallia, Italy, Spain, and Africa. Variations of Dressel2-4 amphoras were also produced as well as several standard forms of Pompeii 5, Zemer 41,Agora M54 and Agora G 198 in Cilicia Region in Roman Period.In this study, Dressel 2-4 amphorae were evaluated in terms of their typological, fabric features anddated after completing their analogic examination. In addition to the types that were discovered invarious dimensions in the A3 terrace area and classifi ed according to their form and clay features,we made some suggestions about the production centres of Dressel 2-4 amphorae which aredifferent in terms of both paste and typology and whose production place and similar exampleshave not been found.Keywords: Cilicia, Elaiussa Sebaste, Amphora, Production, Dressel 2-4.Save to LibraryDownloadby Asena Kızılarslanoğlu•  6  Cilicia, Italian Archaeology, Amphorae, Roman AmphoraeOlba’da MÖ 1. Yüzyılda Yaşanan Hareketlilik Üzerine Düşünceler - Activities in Olba in the 1st Century BCAfter the defeat of Antiochus III in the Battle of Magnesia in 190 BC, Seleucids had to withdraw behind the Taurus Mountains to the East. This event caused a social decline and economic recession in many sites in Rough Cilicia. During the... moreAfter the defeat of Antiochus III in the Battle of Magnesia in 190 BC, Seleucids hadto withdraw behind the Taurus Mountains to the East. This event caused a social declineand economic recession in many sites in Rough Cilicia. During the period between thesecond century BC and Pompey’s campaign, a decline of Seleucid power in the regionoccurs. Romans’ struggle with Mithradates VI who had supported the pirates in theEastern Mediterranean is another reason of the chaotic circumstances in the region.Many sites abandoned, legal trade activities slowed down, production of the goodsalmost ceased and people had to incline the piracy because of poverty. It has alwaysbeen a question where and under which conditions pirates were living, hiding and whattheir relations were as well as their impact on the regions they were associated with.This study aims to focus on these issues in the light of recent archaeological discoveriesfrom the excavations of Olba in Eastern Rough Cilicia. The finds that will enable us toget information concerning the period (first century BC) mainly consist of coins as wellas DSA pottery sherds and a couple of fragments belonging to glass bowls that weretypical for the time. A significant numismatic find is a Kolophon coin that can enlightthe presence of pirates in Olba. The total number of coins belonging to the first centuryBC from Olba is 32. These are coins of Elaiussa, Korykos, Seleucia ad Calycadnum,Soli and Tarsus. For the similar coin types that were previously published, a largeperiod of time in between the second and first century BC were usually given. In orderto make a more accurate dating, the coins of Elaiussa provide concrete evidence. Thelatest use of ethnicon EΛAIOYΣIΩN, dates to the year 12 BC for the coins of Elaiussa.After that date, the coins of Elaiussa bear the name “Elaiussa Sebaste”. On the otherhand, Pompey’s victory over the pirates and Mithradates VI in 67 BC can be regarded earliest date of issue for Elaiussa coins. Before that date, in the early first century BC itdoes not seem possible to any site in the region to struck coins under the chaotic conditions.Our study aims to evaluate the circumstances in Olba through archaeological andnumismatic material in that very significant period of time. ÖZETMagnesia Savaşı’nda III. Antiokhos ağır bir yenilgiye uğrayınca, SeleukoslarTorosların gerisine çekilmiştir. Bu dönemden itibaren Dağlık Kilikia’da birçok kentteticari ve sosyal anlamda bir durgunluk başgöstermiştir. MÖ 2. yüzyılın ikinci yarısı ilePompeius’un seferine kadarki süreçte; Seleukosların egemen olduğu bölgeler üzerindekihakimiyetlerini kaybetmetmeleri, Roma’nın VI. Mithradates ile yaptığı savaşlarbu dönemdeki kaotik ortamın nedenlerindendir. Aynı zamanda Seleukosların denizlerüzerindeki otoritesinin ortadan kalkması ve Mithradates’in Roma’ya karşı eşkıyalarıdesteklemesi Akdeniz’de uzun süren istikrarsızlığın nedenlerindendir. Ayrıca bu otoriteboşluğunun doğurduğu korsanlık yüzünden kentler boşalmış, düzenli-legal ticaretyavaşlamış, üretim durma noktasına gelmiş, insanlar geçinebilmek için korsanlıkyapmaya başlamıştır. Bunun yanında korsanların nerelerde yaşadığı, saklandığı konusubilim insanları tarafından birçok kereler tartışılmıştır. Olba’nın MÖ 1. yüzyıla aitarkeolojik buluntuları olan sikkeler ve DSA seramikleri ve cam buluntuları bu makalededetaylandırılmış olup, bu veriler ışığında Pompeius’un korsanlığa son vermesi ile yapmışolduğu düzenlemelerden Olba’nın da etkilendiği, kentte nüfusunun arttığı ve ticaretininbu dönemden itibaren hızlandığı önerilmektedir. Bu çalışmada korsanların DoğuDağlık Kilikia’da yaşadığı düşüncesine destek olabilecek Olba buluntusu bir Kolophonsikkesi de tanıtılmakta ve siyasi tarih perspektifinden bakılarak bir öneride bulunulmaktadır.Özellikle kentteki nüfusun ve ticaretin kanıtı olan sikkeler ve seramikler deincelenmektedir. Kentte 32 adet MÖ 1. yüzyıla ait sikke ele geçmiştir. Bunlar, Elaiussa,Korykos, Seleucia ad Calycadnum, Soloi ve Tarsus sikkeleridir. Literatürde bu sikkeleregeniş tarih aralıkları olan MÖ 1. yüzyıl ya da MÖ 2. – 1. yüzyıl gibi tarihlerönerilmiştir. Ancak bu sikkeler daha dar bir tarih aralığına çekilebilir. Elaiussa sikkeleribu konuda bilgi vermektedir. Özellikle literatürde ethnikonunda EΛAIOYΣIΩN yazan,MÖ 1. yüzyıla tarihlendirilen Elaiussa sikkelerin tarihlerini daha da özelleştirmek mümkündür.Bunlar için MÖ 12 yılı en geç tarih sınırıdır çünkü, bu tarihten sonra Elaiussasikkeleri kentin adı “Elaiussa Sebaste” olarak belirtilerek basılmıştır. Öte yandan,Pompeius’un korsanlığı bitirişi ve VI. Mithridates’e karşı kazandığı zafer yani MÖ 67yılı Elaiussa sikkeleri için en erken basım tarihi olarak düşünülebilir. Bu kadar kaotikbir ortamda ve otoritenin olmadığı bir süreçte (MÖ 1. yüzyıl ile MÖ 67 yılı arası) sikkebasacak bir kentin olması beklenemez. Bu çalışmada Olba’dan gelen arkeolojik venümizmatik veriler ışığında kentteki koşulların değerlendirmesi yapılacaktır.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tuna Akçay•  12  Cilicia, Pirates, Coins, KorykosMaria Francesca Pipere, Indagini subacquee presso la città di Elaiussa Sebaste (Turchia): porto tra Oriente e Occidente. MASSIMO CAPULLI (a cura di) IL PATRIMONIO CULTURALE SOMMERSO RICERCHE E PROPOSTE PER IL FUTURO DELL'ARCHEOLOGIA SUBACQUEA IN ITALIA.Elaiussa Sebaste (present-day Ayaş-Mersin, Turkey), in ancient Rough Cilicia, was one of the most important trade-ports of the eastern Mediterranean active from the late Hellenistic age to the early Byzantine period. The investigations... moreElaiussa Sebaste (present-day Ayaş-Mersin, Turkey), in ancient Rough Cilicia, was one of the most important trade-ports of the eastern Mediterranean active from the late Hellenistic age to the early Byzantine period. The investigations carried out in 2012 & 2013 have the scope through a multidisciplinary approach to the port system to define and deepen the knowledge of the processes of development and evolution of the port basins, and furthermore to complete the lack of knowledge on the sea area facing the site and to deepen the historical knowledge of the coastal morphology and topography, of the ports and anchorages of the city and of the shipwrecks in the coastal area in front of the site.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Francesca Pipere•  14  Cilicia, Underwater Archaeology, Speleoarchaeology, PortsARCHEOLOGIA DELL'ACQUA AD ELAIUSSA SEBASTE, CILICIA (TURCHIA): UN CONTESTO DI SCAVO DI ETA' PROTOBIZANTINA NEL QUARTIERE RESIDENZIALE PRESSO IL PORTO SUDElaiussa Sebaste (modern Ayaş, Akdeniz Bölgesı, southern Turkey) has been investigated since 1995 by the Italian Archaeological Mission of “Sapienza” University of Rome. Excavations brought to light large sectors of the Roman–Byzantine... moreElaiussa Sebaste (modern Ayaş, Akdeniz Bölgesı, southern Turkey) has been investigated since 1995 by the Italian Archaeological Mission of “Sapienza” University of Rome. Excavations brought to light large sectors of the Roman–Byzantine public area (theatre, agora, baths), necropoleis, two city harbours, the so called “Byzantine palace” and part of the domestic and handcraft quarters. The site was, during the Roman age, one of the most important cities of Cilicia Aspera and maintained its prestigious role as a significant trading port until the late empire and the early Byzantine age, when it became one of the most active centres of LR1 amphoras production. This contribution will focus on the “Cura Aquarum Project”, started in 2009 and aimed at identifying, positioning and documenting all the structures related with the water supply of the site. Recognition works were carried out identifying large sections of the aqueduct’s truck, the connected water tanks and numerous cisterns disseminated across the city. Together with the surveys, the complete excavation of one of the cisterns entirely cut in the rock found in the domestic early-Byzantine quarter – luckily sealed just after the site abandonment – contributed to clarify the importance of the rainwater harvesting system, even after the aqueduct’s construction, providing a significant portrayal of the latest phase of Elaiussa’s occupation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Annalisa Falcone•  7  Archaeology, Ancient Water Technology, Roman Archaeology, LR1 Amphorae“The Chora of Elaiussa Sebaste in the Early Byzantine period: The changing landscape and the evolution  of urban and rural settlements".International Young Scholars Conference II: Mediterranean Anatolia.( 4-7Novembre 2015) Symposium Proceedings, Koç University,Istanbul 2018.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vincenzo Elio Jr. Macchione•  4  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Mediterranean archaeology, Rough Cilicia, Elaiussa Sebaste, Archaeology“Elaiussa Sebaste: note sulla topografia portuale e marittimo-costiera di una città della Cilicia”, Portuslimen: Rome’s Mediterranean Ports (RoMP). Workshop on Archaeological Fieldwork 28th and 29th January 2016. British School at Rome.The paper is aimed at illustrating some preliminary results yielded by the ongoing research at the coastal site of Elaiussa Sebaste (present-day Ayaş-Mersin, Turkey) in ancient Rough Cilicia, with its two prominent harbours. The ancient... moreThe paper is aimed at illustrating some preliminary results yielded by the ongoing research at the coastal site of Elaiussa Sebaste (present-day Ayaş-Mersin, Turkey) in ancient Rough Cilicia, with its two prominent harbours. The ancient city shows a lively continuity from the late Hellenistic through the early Byzantine periods. The Italian Archaeological Mission at Elaiussa Sebaste has been operating on the site since 1995, and research whas been undertaken underwater and on land at the site since 2012. The groundbreaking approach to the coastal and maritime topography focusses on understanding the influences and the impulses of different natures which affected the settlement, transformation, development and decline of the site.Elaiussa Sebaste, the prominent city of Roman Rough Cilicia, played an important role in the whole region “connecting East with the West” thanks to its geographic location. Later the city was an episcopal seat in the early Byzantine period, becoming an important amphora production centre along the pilgrim route to Jerusalem through Tarsus and other martyrial sites. The oldest nucleus of Elaiussa Sebaste was built on a broad rocky promontory - this is what ancient authors called “the Island of Elaiussa”, but geological investigations revealed it was connected to the mainland by a narrow isthmus overlooking the city's two ports in historical times. The northern harbour was the wider one, protected by the promontory from the dominant winds but still exposed to the prevailing marine currents of the area; the southern one was smaller and exposed to the prevailing winds. Both harbours are now almost totally silted, and partly covered by modern facilities. The natural maritime and port vocation of the city is well attested as early as the Late Hellenistic period, and it found full definition during the Augustan age, flourishing after Vespasian's definitive annexation of Cilicia to the Empire down to the mid-VII century AD, when the gradual abandonment of the city started. The necessarily interdisciplinary approach to such a complexity ranges from the analysis of ancient written sources and archaeological evidence, together with the evaluation of geomorphology, paleohydrography, meteo-maritime elements, cartography and portolan-charts, and lastly,  also the localization and the study of underwater deposits, shipwrecks and related cargoes. The final purpose fo the project is the reconstruction of the pattern of organization, extension and complexity of sea routes and trades that Elaiussa Sebaste and the whole region were involved in the Late Hellenistic through the Early Byzantine periods.The research is aimed at a thorough comprehension of the environmental, functional, topographic, technological and connective complexity which is implied in any coastal or harbour site. With the final results of this study it will be possible to outline the natural, historical, social, cultural, logistic, commercial or military transformations that affected the coastal and maritime topography of the site through the centuries.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Francesca Pipere•  14  Archaeology, Cilicia, Archeologia Classica, Archeologia Bizantina“Elaiussa Sebaste Üretimi “Geç Roma 1” Amforalarının Geleneksel Tipoloji ve
Geometrik Morfometrik Analizlerle Değerlendirilmesi” /  Traditional Typological and Geometric Morphometric Assessment of the “Late Roman 1” Amforas from Elaiussa SebasteElaiussa Sebaste, which has been excavated since 1995, is located on a coastal road between Anatolia and Syria and therefore it was an active part of extensive trade in the East Mediterranean with its rich natural and agricultural sources... moreElaiussa Sebaste, which has been excavated since 1995, is located on a coastal road between Anatolia and Syria and therefore it was an active part of extensive trade in the East Mediterranean with its rich natural and agricultural sources from 200 BC until the 7th century AD. The city underwent an economic expansion at the end of the 4th century AD. Six amphora kilns were built to produce ‘Late Roman Amphora 1 (LRA 1)’ which was typical for the Elaiussa industry. At the beginning of the 5th century AD, these amphoras were standardized and exported to almost all the markets of the Mediterranean and furthermore reached the far more distant British Isles and India during the Early Byzantine Period.During the excavations in the city, numerous amphorae were found. In addition, ateliers and posibble factories in the harbor are proof of the importance of Elaiussa Sebaste for ancient trade activities. Nowadays, studies about the region are generally focused on fine-rough wares and to the listing of amphorae. More detailed typological studies are required to compare the amphorae for regional differences. For comparasion, the relatively new method of ‘Geometric Morphometry’, which is based on shape analysis, is also used in this study. Geometric morphometric analysis and typological data from the amphorae bring a new insight to the classification of the amphorae. Thus, we have taken the first steps to compare the groups of Late Antique period amphora production at Elaiussa Sebaste with the help of typological and geometric morphometry data.Keywords: Elaiussa Sebaste, Production, Kiln, Amphora, Typology, Geometric MorphometrySave to LibraryDownloadby Asena Kızılarslanoğlu•  5  Amphorae (Archaeology), Late Roman Amphorae, Geometric morphometry, Amphorae Production CentersKızılarslanoğlu, H. A., Alkaç, E., “Hellenistic Amphora Stamps from Elaiussa”, Anatolia Antiqua, Eski Anadolu XXVI, 2018, s. 45-68.Elaiussa is situated on the coastal strip of the Olba region, which extends between the Kalykadnos and Lamos Rivers (Map I). The city was part of the Eastern Mediterranean trading community from the 2nd century B.C. to the 7thcentury... moreElaiussa is situated on the coastal strip of the Olba region, which extends between the Kalykadnos and Lamos Rivers (Map I). The city was part of the Eastern Mediterranean trading community from the 2nd century B.C. to the 7thcentury D.C., due to its location on the coastal road, as well as to its access to rich natural and agricultural sources. The finds from the excavations since 1995 furnish insight into the built environment and city life in Elaiussa, especially during the Roman and Late Roman - Early Byzantine periods. On the other hand, our knowledge about the Hellenistic period is inadequate for us to comment in detail about the early periods of the city. The archaeological finds dated to the Hellenistic period in the excavations up to now include some amphora stamps pertaining to different production sites. The first article on Rhodian amphorae and amphora stamps from Elaiussa was published in 2014 . Thirty more stamped amphora handles were recorded during the storage rooms works in 2015-2016. Most of the stamps were obtained from the excavations conducted on the peninsula. The purpose of this second study of Rhodian amphora stamps at Elaiussa is to reveal the production centers with which Elaiussa forged trade links during the Hellenistic period, and the important information that they furnish about the commercial ties of Elaiussa in the Hellenistic period. In addition, we will attempt to classify and to date the stamps according to their production origins. In the discussion that follows, comparanda bearing the same patterns as the amphora stamps recovered at Elaiussa will be specified, as will the dates assigned to the administrator and/or fabricant names that are recorded in the stamps. The dates of unreadable stamps, meanwhile, will be specified according to the morphology of the handles and the rims. The resulting data will be evaluated in the conclusion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Asena Kızılarslanoğlu•  5  Cilicia, Hellenistic Pottery, Amphorae, Stamped Amphora handlesElaiussa Sebaste'den Baetica Üretimi Amphoralar / Baetica Amphorae from Elaiussa SebasteElaiussa Sebaste, which is located in Cilicia Tracheia, within the borders of Mersin (Turkey), has been a part of the vivid commercial activities in the Mediterranean since the Hellenistic Period up to the 7th century AD due to its... moreElaiussa Sebaste, which is located in Cilicia Tracheia, within the bordersof Mersin (Turkey), has been a part of the vivid commercial activities in theMediterranean since the Hellenistic Period up to the 7th century AD due to its geographicsetting and natural seaports. The commercial activities of the city extendedto various regions from Syria to Spain after the increase of its population. Wineand olive oil production flourished in the Roman period. Owing to the excavationsin the city, especially on the island where the seaports take place, many amphoraewere found which provide evidence for these commercial relations. The amphoraefrom several production centres such as Spain, Italy, Aegean islands and Cypruswhich were found in the A3 terrace of the southern port show the dimensions ofthe commercial network. In this study, we investigated the commerce relationsbetween Elaiussa Sebaste and Spain in the Roman Period by taking Spain-originedamphora samples of three different types in consideration.Keywords: Cilicia, Elaiussa Sebaste, Amphora, Commerce, Spain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Asena Kızılarslanoğlu•  7  Amphorae (Archaeology), Commercial, Roman Amphorae, GarumA. Polosa, H. A. Kızılarslanoğlu, "Elaiussa Sebaste'deki Kültürel Temaslar Contatti Culturali a Elaiussa Sebaste", Arkeoloji ve Sanat Dergisi, 2019.Save to LibraryDownloadby Asena Kızılarslanoğlu•  2  Cilicia, Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyE. Borgia, V. Iacomi, “Note preliminari su un complesso industriale per la produzione di anfore Late Roman I a Elaiussa Sebaste (Cilicia)”, L'Africa Romana. XVII, Roma 2010Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Borgia•  3  Hellenistic and Roman Asia Minor, Amphorae (Archaeology), Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyANCIENT OIL OR WINE PRESSES IN CILICIA / Gli impianti di produzione, in E. EQUINI SCHNEIDER (ed.), Elaiussa Sebaste I, Campagne di scavo 1995-1997, Roma 1999, pp. 129-141.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giulia Baratta•  80  History, Ancient History, Cultural History, Economic HistoryLa Cilicia/Isauria tra IV e metà VII secolo: insediamenti,  produzioni e attività economiche. Nuove considerazioni alla luce  dei più recenti studi sulla regioneQuesto contributo si propone di analizzare in maniera organica alcuni dati significativi, emersi combinando gli studi delle due autrici, in merito alle trasformazione dei modelli urbani e produttivi nella Cilicia Tracheia/Isauria nel... moreQuesto contributo si propone di analizzare in maniera organica alcuni dati significativi, emersi combinando gli studi delle due autrici, in merito alle trasformazione dei modelli urbani e produttivi nella Cilicia Tracheia/Isauria nel periodo tardo romano e protobizantino.Da una prima analisi emerge un quadro della regione piuttosto complesso e articolato che vede un territorio ricco di centri urbani a cui si alternano aree rurali dedite alla produzione agricola e alla lavorazione delle materie prime e che attraversa in questo periodo (IV – metà VII secolo) una fase di evidente incremento dell’attività commerciale, proiettando le città della costa dell’Isauria nelle rotte mediterranee fino in Occidente. Un tale mutamento nell’assetto economico, però, non può prescindere da una crescita dell’attività produttiva che raggiunge una portata inedita e che si manifesta principalmente nella coltivazione della vite e dell’ulivo e nella commercializzazione di vino e olio.Dal punto di vista archeologico ciò si riscontra, per esempio, nella diffusione sul territorio extraurbano di impianti legati principalmente alla produzione di olio e vino e nella presenza considerevole, soprattutto in contesti cittadini, di fornaci per la fabbricazione di contenitori da trasporto: la produzione sembra non più volta a soddisfare il solo fabbisogno locale, ma razionalizzata in maniera tale da garantire un surplus di materie prime destinate al commercio. In questo contesto doveva essere fondamentale il sistema integrato aree rurali – città costiere, basato sulla produzione nelle prime e sulla commercializzazione delle merci nelle seconde, malgrado resti ancora di difficile comprensione il sistema amministrativo che doveva regolare i rapporti tra le due realtà. D’altra parte, nello studio integrato di tali dinamiche si riscontrano ancora numerose problematiche che si auspica possano essere superate attraverso l’acquisizione di nuovi dati e ulteriori indagini sul territorio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veronica Iacomi and +1valentina cassiani•  25  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Late Antique Archaeology, Late Antiquity, CiliciaCatalogo delle iscrizioniSave to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Borgia•  3  Roman Epigraphy, Cilicia, Elaiussa Sebaste, Archaeology“La decorazione architettonica del tempio romano di Elaioussa Sebaste (Cilicia): modelli locali e influenze urbane”, in Decor. Decorazione e architettura nel mondo romano, Thiasos Mon. 9, Roma 2017, pp. 447-457.Il riesame della decorazione architettonica superstite del tempio romano di Elaioussa Sebaste in Cilicia offre importanti spunti di riflessione sul tema del rapporto tra tradizioni locali e tradizione romana. Si constata in effetti, più... moreIl riesame della decorazione architettonica superstite del tempio romano di Elaioussa Sebaste in Cilicia offre importanti spunti di riflessione sul tema del rapporto tra tradizioni locali e tradizione romana. Si constata in effetti, più che in altri edifici della città e della regione, una maggiore influenza dei modelli urbani, soprattutto per quanto concerne alcuni motivi decorativi che sono naturalmente ripresi e modificati secondo i gusti prettamente locali. L' analisi d'insieme di tali aspetti è fondamentale non solo per tentare di formulare una datazione più precisa e circostanziata – non sottovalutando i limiti insiti nel criterio meramente stilistico e gli attardamenti provinciali – ma anche al fine di individuare, se possibile, il destinatario dell' edificio e la committenza. The revision of the extant architectural fragments of the Roman temple at Elaioussa Sebaste in Cilicia offers new important clues for analyzing the relationship between local and Roman traditions. More than in other buildings in the city and in the province, in this temple a wider influence of urban models can be outlined, mostly for what concerns some decorative features which are of course re-elaborated and modified according to local tastes. The overall analysis of these aspects is of primary importance not only to try to better define the chronology of the building – being aware of the limits related to the mere stylistic criteria and of the provincial late reception of the models – but also in order to understand, whenever possible, the deity to whom the temple was dedicated and its commissioner.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Borgia•  3  Hellenistic and Roman Asia Minor, Roman Temples, Elaiussa Sebaste, Archaeology“Elaiussa Sebaste: 2008-2009 Excavation and Conservation Works”, 32. KST, 3, 2011, pp. 313-327Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Borgia•  3  Cilicia, Hellenistic and Roman Asia Minor, Elaiussa Sebaste, Archaeology“Elaiussa Sebaste: note su un'iscrizione funeraria dalla basilica bizantina delle Grandi Terme”, ScAnt 20, 2014, pp. 59-69Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Borgia•  4  Byzantine Archaeology, Cilicia, Greek and Roman Epigraphy, Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyIscrizioni FunerarieSave to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Borgia•  3  Cilicia, Inscriptions, Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyZur Datierung der Tempel in Seleukeia am Kalykadnos und in Elaiussa-Sebaste (Kilikien)Save to LibraryDownloadby Christof Berns•  4  Cilicia, Hellenistic and Roman Asia Minor, Roman Architecture, Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyThe harbours of Elaiussa Sebaste: preliminary analysis of environmental, cultural and socio-economic aspects of maritime and coastal topographyThe paper is aimed at illustrating some preliminary results yielded by the ongoing research at the coastal site of Elaiussa Sebaste (Cilicia, Turkey) with specific regards to its maritime vocation, in a region which has been defined the... moreThe paper is aimed at illustrating some preliminary results yielded by the ongoing research at the coastal site of Elaiussa Sebaste (Cilicia, Turkey) with specific regards to its maritime vocation, in a region which has been defined the “connective between East and West”. A natural crossroad in the wider frame of Eastern Mediterranean routes, Elaiussa, with its two prominent harbours now almost completely silted, shows a lively continuity from the late Hellenistic through the early Byzantine periods. The research were undertaken underwater and by land at Elaiussa since 2012 with the purpose of a groundbreaking approach to the coastal and maritime topography: what emerges is a picture about the environmental and historical, social, military, and economic issues which characterized the development and the transformation of the city, and of its harbours, coast, and hinterland through long-term natural and anthropic processes. Particular attention has been paid to the analysis of the harbours and their connected facilities, to the presence of shipwrecks, and to the regional trading routes within Mediterranean, regional and local perspectives, with the purpose of understanding the influences and the impulses of different nature which affected the settlement, the transformation, the development and decline of the site.Save to Libraryby Maria Francesca Pipere•  16  Archaeology, Landscape Archaeology, Cilicia, Late Roman ArchaeologyIscrizioni inedite provenienti dalle campagne di scavo 1996-1997Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Borgia•  3  Cilicia, Greek and Roman Epigraphy, Elaiussa Sebaste, ArchaeologyForma Urbis, dicembre 2015, Immagini di città. Archeologia, architettura, arte, Editoriale & SommarioLa città è un insediamento stabile con una storia lunghissima che si perde nei meandri del tempo. Sebbene una univoca definizione del termine sia sconsigliata e ci siano diverse opinioni riguardo ai casi in cui un determinato insediamento... moreLa città è un insediamento stabile con una storia lunghissima che si perde nei meandri del tempo. Sebbene una univoca definizione del termine sia sconsigliata e ci siano diverse opinioni riguardo ai casi in cui un determinato insediamento antico possa essere considerato tale, le prime vere città sono a volte indicate come grandi insediamenti nei quali gli abitanti non si limitavano a coltivare le terre circostanti,ma cominciavano a dedicarsi a occupazioni specializzate,e nelle quali il commercio, l’immagazzinamento dei cibi e il potere erano centralizzati, anche al fine di organizzare le complesse attività correlate alla gestione degli spazi (irreggimentazione delle acque, opere di bonifica, manutenzione degli argini, regolamentazione edestinazione delle aree collettive ...) o alla creazione di specifiche infrastrutture (come quelle legate alla difesa o alla viabilità), per realizzare le quali era necessario coordinare l’attività di molti uomini, indipendentementedalla loro “condizione giuridica”. Secondo questa definizione, le prime città di cui possiamo dire di avere notizia eranosituate in Mesopotamia, come Uruk e Ur, o in Egitto, lungo il Nilo, o ancora nella valle dell’Indo e in Cina...Save to LibraryDownloadby Simona  Sanchirico and +1Ettore Janulardo•  17  Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Olmec archaeology, ArcheologiaRelated TopicsLate Roman AmphoraeFollowFollowingLate Antique ArchaeologyFollowFollowingLate Roman Pottery KilnsFollowFollowingLate Roman Pottery WorkshopsFollowFollowingProduction and trade in the Central and E MediterraneanFollowFollowingLate Antique UrbanismFollowFollowingLate Roman TradeFollowFollowingRoman and Byzantine Asia MinorFollowFollowingEarly Byzantine Pottery production, Globular Amphorae, Trade and Exchange during 7th and 8th c. A.D.FollowFollowingLate Roman Amphora 1 BFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023