UK Internal Market, Devolution and the Union | Centre on Constitutional Change
      Skip to main content
    
 
 
                Keep up with us on social
              
Enter search query
Search
Site-wide menu
About
About the Centre
Research projects
Fellows
Associated Fellows
Media queries
News and opinion
Constitutionally Sound - CCC podcast
Events
The Basics
Publications
Contact
Breadcrumb
Home
Publications
                  UK Internal Market, Devolution and the Union 
              
Hero image
 
Theme
Brexit
Devolution
        UK Internal Market, Devolution and the Union 
        
Publication type
Reports & Briefings
Author(s):
Centre on Constitutional Change
Tags:
UK Internal Market
Body text
This briefing paper explores the impact of the UK Internal Market Bill for the future of devolution and the relations between the governments and territories of the United Kingdom. It focuses in particular on the market access principles established by the Bill, with consideration also given to the powers the Bill confers upon the UK Government to spend on devolved matters. We answer ten key questions raised by the Internal Market Bill:
What are market access principles?
How will Internal Market principles be enforced?
Does the Bill simply replicate EU law?
Does the Bill weaken devolution?
How do the Principles in the Bill relate to Common Frameworks?
Will the Bill ensure high regulatory standards?
Are the financial assistance powers necessary to uphold the UK Internal Market?
Will the Bill promote cooperation and trust between governments?
Is the Bill necessary to enable businesses to trade freely across the UK?
Can the Bill be improved?
About the authors: Michael Dougan is Professor of European Law and Jean Monnet Chair in EU Law, University of Liverpool.
Katy Hayward is Professor of Political Sociology at Queen’s University Belfast and a Senior Fellow of the UK in a Changing Europe initiative.
Jo Hunt is Professor of Law at the Wales Governance Centre, School of Law and Politics, Cardiff University.
Nicola McEwen is Professor of Territorial Politics at the University of Edinburgh, Co-Director of the Centre on Constitutional Change and a Senior Fellow of the UK in a Changing Europe initiative.
Aileen McHarg is Professor of Public Law and Human Rights at Durham Law School, Durham University.
Daniel Wincott is Blackwell Professor of Law and Society at the Wales Governance Centre, School of Law and Politics, Cardiff University and Director of the Economic and Social Research Council’s Governance after Brexit Research Programme.
File download
File
UK INTERNAL MARKET BILL, DEVOLUTION AND THE UNION (2)_0.pdf (895.69 KB, application/pdf)
See all publications
Share
Subscribe to our newsletter
Contact us
Email: Centre.Constitutional.Change@ed.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 131 651 4735
 
 
 
The Centre on Constitutional Change applies the best of social scientific scholarship to the questions raised by the UK’s evolving territorial relationships.
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336, VAT Registration Number GB 592 9507 00, and is acknowledged by the UK authorities as  “Recognised body” which has been granted degree awarding powers.
Terms and conditions
Privacy and cookies
Website accessibility
Freedom of information publication scheme