Bookish Britain overtakes America as top publisher - Redorbit
Home
Science
Space
Health
Technology
Toggle search
Search
Open sidebar
Search
Home
Science
Space
Health
Technology
Close sidebar
Entertainment 
Bookish Britain overtakes America as top publisher
Written By: Sam Savage
Published Date: May 10, 2006
Last Edited: May 10, 2006
0
 By Jeffrey Goldfarb
 LONDON (Reuters) – Readers on both sides of the Atlantic
Ocean made bestsellers last year of “The Da Vinci Code” and the
latest Harry Potter adventure, but British publishers for only
the second time in 20 years churned out more new book choices
than their American counterparts.
 U.S. output dropped for the first time since 1999 while the
number of British titles surged 28 percent, according to new
data from research firm Bowker.
 Britain, with one-fifth the population of the United
States, has long been the world’s largest publisher of new
books per capita in any language, but a steep decline in U.S.
publication of general adult fiction and children’s books
helped boost the UK’s total volume to the top English-language
spot.
 UK publishers issued 206,000 new books in 2005 compared
with 172,000 in the United States, which saw an 18 percent drop
in production, according to the New Providence, New
Jersey-based firm’s preliminary figures.
 The volume of new books has been steadily increasing since
the mid-1980s as the popularity of superstores required more
titles to fill their shelves, and then later the advent of
online retailers made greater choice even easier to supply.
 The number of annual new titles from U.S. publishers has
increased 51 percent since 1995, but the growth may have hit a
peak.
 “Common sense will tell you that when you produce 200,000
new products — more than any other industry — the market
can’t digest all of them,” Andrew Grabois, a Bowker consultant
who compiled the data, said on Wednesday.
 “It’s not because it’s physically too many, but how do
people become aware of all of them?”
 Bowker expects that American publishers will remain
cautious this year, as well.
 “The price of paper has already gone up twice this year,
and publishers, especially the small ones, will have to think
very carefully about what to publish,” Bowker’s chief operating
officer Gary Aiello said.
 The United States previously had published more books than
Britain every year for the past 20 years, except in 2001,
Grabois said.
 “The question is, will British publishers face a similar
market correction, or have they figured out how fewer
publishers can publish more books for even fewer readers?” he
said.
 The U.S. output last year was the country’s second highest
total, after the record set in 2004. It was the 10th downturn
in the last 50 years, Bowker said.
 Bowker’s Books in Print data base represents figures from
83,000 U.S. publishers. Grabois said he obtained the UK data
from Nielsen BookScan.
Comments comments
Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Please enable JavaScript to submit this form. 
 
The information provided is no substitite for an informed medical professional.
Please consult an expert before taking any action 
Popular
August 30, 2023
Elon Musk Denies Plans to Add Native Token as “X” Obtains Another Currency Transmitter License
August 26, 2023
SpaceX Launches Crew-7 to International Space Station
August 25, 2023
DOJ Alleges SpaceX Engaged in Discriminatory Hiring Practices in New Lawsuit
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Sign Up
Advertising
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Terms of Service
Abuse Reporting
Jobs
 
RedOrbit on Facebook
RedOrbit on Twitter
RedOrbit on LinkedIn
© 2002-2018 redOrbit.com. All rights reserved
Fibromyalgia Treating is now part of the RedOrbit.com community!
We are excited to announce that FibromyalgiaTreating.com is now part of RedOrbit.com. All of the same great people, writers and editors but now with more firepower. We now have access to an enormous amount of additional research information
from doctors and scientists. We can now extend to other conditions that may be part of your everyday lives and help you on a broad level if that is what you need. We are here for you and now, better than ever so sit back and enjoy
the new Fibromyalgia Treating by RedOrbit!
Close