Sport for Development Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Sport for Development4,383 FollowersRecent papers in Sport for DevelopmentTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleApuntes sobre la utilización del fútbol como recurso social: hacia una descripción comparativa internacionalVarias Organizaciones No Gubernamentales (ONGs) se han encaminado en diferentes contextos en el uso del fútbol como herramienta social de trabajo. Un fútbol que es practicado por jóvenes de ambos sexos, e incluso por adultos, en... moreVarias Organizaciones No Gubernamentales (ONGs) se han encaminado en diferentes contextos en el uso del fútbol como herramienta social de trabajo. Un fútbol que es practicado por jóvenes de ambos sexos, e incluso por adultos, en situaciones de vulnerabilidad social. Reunidas en redes internacionales o aisladas en su geografía, estamos hablando de un fútbol al servicio de diferentes problemáticas y usos sociales.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando Segura M. Trejo•  5  Sociology, Sociology of Sport, Sport for Development, FutbolBuilding Social and Cultural Capital among Young People in Disadvantaged Communities: Lessons from a Brazilian Sport-based Intervention ProgramThis article explores the concepts of social and cultural capital as analytical tools for investigating the capacity of sport-based intervention programs to contribute to the personal, social and professional development of disadvantaged... moreThis article explores the concepts of social and cultural capital as analytical tools for investigating the capacity of sport-based intervention programs to contribute to the personal, social and professional development of disadvantaged young people. It draws on survey data (n = 129) and qualitative interviews (n = 53) with participants of the Vencer program in Rio de Janeiro to examine how the program impacts on participants' personal and skill development and social connectedness. Surveys (n = 28) and interviews (n = 36) with stakeholders provide additional perspectives on the program's impact on participants. It is argued that the program's contribution to the development of social and cultural capital is closely associated with its ability to develop linkages with multiple institutional agents and the provision of a facilitating institutional context which enables young people to get to know one another and broaden their social horizons.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramon Spaaij•  5  Community Development, Brazilian Studies, Sport for Development, Social and Cultural CapitalEmbracing Cultural Contexts and Critical Reflexivity: (Re)presenting the Global Sports Industry in Research and PracticeSave to LibraryDownloadby steven pope•  4  Sociology of Sport, Sports Management, Sport for Development, Sport Sponsorship Sports MarketingAre women overcoming, or re-enforcing, the hegemonic barrier of femininity in their quest to become physically active? Applying the Achievement Motivation TheorySave to LibraryDownloadby Emily Neilan•  7  Gender Studies, Women's Studies, Gender, Women's EmpowermentWelty Peachey, J., Schulenkorf, N. and Spaaij, R. (2019): “Bridging the Theory-Practice Divide in Sport-for-Development”, Journal of Sport Management, 33(5), 631-635Theory development around sport for social change agendas has received greater attention from scholars over the past 10 years. Yet, it remains underdeveloped when compared to theoretical advancements and innovations in other aspects of... moreTheory development around sport for social change agendas has received greater attention from scholars over the past 10 years. Yet, it remains underdeveloped when compared to theoretical advancements and innovations in other aspects of the sport industry. This special issue answers calls to explore the nature of theory development within the sport for social change landscape. It invited scholars to explore and consider how theory can inform practice in sport for social change, and vice versa.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nico Schulenkorf•  5  Social Change, Community Development, Sports Management, Sport for DevelopmentThe Boxing Conundrum: Is there a place for a new variant of the sport?Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard Lucas•  4  Engineering, Skill Acquisition, Sport for Development, Sports CoachingA "SPORT A FEJLŐDÉSÉRT ÉS A BÉKÉÉRT" TERÜLETÉNEK NEMZETKÖZI FEJLŐDÉSI TENDENCIÁI ÉS HAZAI LEHETŐSÉGEI A SZAKIRODALOM TÜKRÉBENAbsztrakt A "sport a fejlődésért és a békéért" (sport for development and peace-SDP) területe az ezredfor-duló óta világszerte hatalmas fejlődésen ment keresz-tül: ma már több mint 900 szervezet vallja magáról, hogy SDP tevékenységet... moreAbsztrakt A "sport a fejlődésért és a békéért" (sport for development and peace-SDP) területe az ezredfor-duló óta világszerte hatalmas fejlődésen ment keresz-tül: ma már több mint 900 szervezet vallja magáról, hogy SDP tevékenységet folytat, és a szakterületen publikált tudományos cikkek száma meghaladja a 400-at. A sport és a nemzetközi fejlesztés szekto-rának metszetén kialakult mozgalom mára maga is elkülöníthető szektorrá alakul és világszinten in-tézményesült. A magyar szakemberek érdeklődését ugyanakkor még nem keltette fel az SDP területe, ami abban mutatkozik meg, hogy elenyésző számmal működnek hazánkban SDP programok, valamint a területen megjelent szakcikkek száma is csekély. E ta-nulmány az SDP területébe-annak gyakorlatába és tudományos irodalmába-kíván betekintést nyújta-ni, azzal a céllal, hogy az eddigi fejlemények rendsze-rezése után lehetséges fejlődési lépéseket jelöljön ki a hazai SDP színtér szereplői számára. Abstract Th e fi eld of "sport for development and peace" has gone through tremendous development worldwide since the millennium: currently, there are over 900 organisations that reportedly deliver SDP activities , and more than 400 scientifi c papers have been published on the topic. Th e SDP movement was born in the common set of the sport and international development sectors, and turned into a sector itself as well after going through a global institutionalisation. Even so, Hungarian professionals have not yet shown much interest in the SDP sector, as it is shown in the low numbers of Hungarian organisations and published scientifi c Hungarian articles in the fi eld. Th is paper intends to look into the SDP fi eld-both into its practice and its scientifi c literature-, aiming to contribute to the systematisation of previous developments, and through this, to identify potential further steps for the stakeholders of the Hungarian SDP sector.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bardocz-Bencsik Mariann•  3  Sociology of Sport, Sport for Development, Sport for Development and PeaceRapport Evaluation Kit Ecole Active de PLay International - Université Paris Descartes.pdfLe programme « École Active » est une réponse de PLAY International au constat alarmant de la baisse croissante de la pratique régulière d’Activités Physiques (AP) chez les jeunes français et l’augmentation de la sédentarité (ANSES,... moreLe programme « École Active » est une réponse de PLAY International au constat alarmant de la baisse croissante de la pratique régulière d’Activités Physiques (AP) chez les jeunes français et l’augmentation de la sédentarité (ANSES, 2016). Depuis 2016, l’Université Paris Descartes et PLAY International travaillent dans le cadre d’une recherche action pour co-construire un kit adapté et lutter contre la sédentarité des élèves, à partir des connaissances scientifiques et des représentations des élèves sur le terrain (Tlili & Joncheray, 2016). On part de l’hypothèse que le kit « École Active » créée permettra de mieux répondre aux besoins des élèves, de donner le goût de la pratique physique et de compléter leurs connaissances nécessaires autour de la santé, pour les rendre plus actifs et ainsi mieux lutter contre la sédentarité.Cette présente évaluation avait pour objectif de mesurer l’impact du kit « École Active » produit par PLAY International sur les représentations et les connaissances des élèves. Sur la période imposée par le protocole d’expérimentation, deux écoles ont rempli les conditions suffisantes pour mener à bien cette expérimentation. Dans chaque école, deux groupes étaient constitués (témoin et expérimental), chacun composé de dix élèves tirés au sort par l’enseignant.e référent.e. Les résultats de ces deux groupes expérimentaux ont été comparés aux résultats des groupes témoins dans chacune des deux écoles (REP+ et NON REP). Les groupes expérimentaux ont pu pratiquer au moins cinq des huit séances du kit (cinq séances pour François Coppée et six séances pour Henri Wallon – Valenton). Ce comparatif permet d’évaluer l’impact du kit «École Active» sur les représentations et sur l’état des connaissances scientifiques des élèves. Cependant ces résultats, obtenus sur un faible échantillon, sont à nuancer et mériteraient d’être complétés.Pour ce faire, trois méthodes d’analyses ont été menées : 1) une analyse quantitative des données issues des questionnaires complétés par les quatre enseignants pour chaque élève sélectionné (n=40) ; 2) une analyse qualitative des entretiens collectifs de type focus group’ réalisés auprès des 40 élèves et 3) une analyse quantitative des savoirs utilisés à partir des verbatim des entretiens. Bilan global et recommandations : Après expérimentation des séances du kit, les élèves ont pu compléter leurs connaissances et sortir d’une définition incomplète, inquiétante qui les poussent à faire majoritairement des références négatives de la santé. Grace à l’expérimentation du kit « École Active », l’AP occupe dans leurs représentations de la santé une place centrale pour renforcer les muscles et stimuler les organes. La diffusion du kit à cet âge (9 - 10 ans) apparaît idéale avant que les stéréotypes sexués n’apparaissent et ne perturbent la construction du corps, des savoirs et de l’activité physique. Avec ces résultats encourageants, il serait important de vérifier l’état des connaissances globales des élèves sur le kit entier composé des vingt séances, sur un échantillon plus important dans des zones géographiques plus larges (en y intégrant les zones rurales et isolées). Il serait plus intéressant de tester les séances du kit sur une année scolaire, pour éviter de rajouter de la pression aux enseignants, pourtant motivés mais trop souvent débordés. La préparation du protocole d’évaluation doit s’anticiper plusieurs mois avant l’expérimentation avec une équipe renforcée, pour assurer la sélection des écoles et la formation de base aux enseignants (facilitant ainsi l’intégration des règles pour l’évaluation).Save to LibraryDownloadby Haifa Tlili•  5  Action Research, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Sport for Development, Health and Physical EducationBest practice in sport for development and peace: A process oriented model.While sport for development projects exist throughout The Global South as well as in disadvantaged areas in more developed countries, no clear guide to best practice that is widely accepted currently exists. We explore key dimensions that... moreWhile sport for development projects exist throughout The Global South as well as in disadvantaged areas in more developed countries, no clear guide to best practice that is widely accepted currently exists. We explore key dimensions that are crucial for success in sport for development initiatives and provide examples of good practice from a case study of the organization Coaches Across Continents.Save to LibraryDownloadby John Nauright•  6  Development Studies, Coaching (Education), Sports Management, Sport for DevelopmentServing up change? Gender mainstreaming and the UNESCO-WTA partnership for global gender equalitySave to LibraryDownloadby Courtney C-to•  7  Unesco, Tennis, Cameroon, Sport for DevelopmentC.L.R. James and a place for history in theorising 'sport for development and peace'Recent research suggests the need for robust theory building in the field of sport for development and peace (SDP). Recognising this, we argue for further attention to, and appreciation of, the historical context within which many SDP... moreRecent research suggests the need for robust theory building in the field of sport for development and peace (SDP). Recognising this, we argue for further attention to, and appreciation of, the historical context within which many SDP initiatives and research projects take place, with particular focus on the history of colonialism as it relates to sport. Drawing on the foundational work of C.L.R. James, we suggest that an historical approach, informed by insights from postcolonial theorising, encourages analyses of ambivalence, hybridity and even irony in the field of SDP. We use James' insights, and recent appraisals of his work, to offer specific theoretical insights for the study of SDP, with a particular focus on social actors in context.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tarminder Kaur•  5  Development Studies, Sports History, Sport for Development, CLR JamesMORE THAN JUST A GAME: Sport as a Communication Platform in Sexuality Education for Adolescent GirlsSince Grassroot Soccer’s founding in 2002, research has been vital to its organisational growth and development. Research and innovation shape the organisatoin's curriculum development, monitoring and evaluation processes, and strategy.... moreSince Grassroot Soccer’s founding in 2002, research has been vital to its organisational growth and development. Research and innovation shape the organisatoin's curriculum development, monitoring and evaluation processes, and strategy. This report examines Grassroot Soccer's sport and sexuality education programmes for adolescent girls in South Africa, also expanded throughout sub-Saharan Africa, with broader literature complemented by unique insights and recommendations from its work. Grassroot Soccer learns by evaluating its work scientifically, and the organisation has seen that the process of engaging adolescent girls in a well-designed, sport-based, inclusive sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) programme can be gender transformative, and results in a range of positive outcomes for girls and their broader communities. Grassroot Soccer has also learned that young people want to learn about sexuality more broadly, as opposed to separating issues such as HIV, gender, relationships, power, violence, safety, sexuality and identity. The organisation recognises that young people are too diverse an audience to group together meaningfully in sexuality education. Grassroot Soccer is thus striving to understand the ways in which sex, age, gender and socialisation shape what is appropriate messaging for adolescents, and understands the need to involve youth in these processes and work with adolescents and peer educators to design interventions that relate to their identities and experiences. This report draws on recent Grassroot Soccer research projects in South Africa to illustrate sport’s potential as a communication platform in sexuality education, in particular for adolescent girls. Five broad themes emerged from these projects that highlight the unique contributions that well-designed Sport for Development initiatives can make to improve sexuality education and SRHR outcomes: (1) Sport is engaging, (2) Sport is physical, (3) Sport is gendered, (4) Sport is empowering and (5) Sport is about relationships. This resource is intended for communities, development practitioners, research institutions, governments and donor agencies, with the hope that the insights herein will help to guide the design of future interventions and research on the use of sport in sexuality education.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jenn  Warren and +2Ben  SandersChris Barkley•  16  Participatory Design, Research  Methods in Physical Education and Sport, Southern Africa, Sport for DevelopmentUsing Sport for Development to Combat Obesity and Increase Female Physical Activity in BarbadosSave to LibraryDownloadby Zachary Beldon•  3  Sport for Development, Sport for Development and Peace, Sport Based Youth DevelopmentSport and Development: An Overview, Critique, and Reconstruction“Development” has become both a watchword and a fascination in sporting circles worldwide. Yet sport officials, policy makers, and advocates often have relatively unsophisticated understandings of development and the role of sport... more“Development” has become both a watchword and a fascination in sporting circles worldwide. Yet sport officials, policy makers, and advocates often have relatively unsophisticated understandings of development and the role of sport therein. This can result in programs and initiatives that are unfocused, ineffective, or even counterproductive. Drawing on critical theory and informed by our own research on sport-based social programs, the authors attempt to impart clarity by distinguishing two different approaches to sport and development: a dominant vision, in which sport essentially reproduces established social relations, and an interventionist approach, in which sport is intended to contribute to more fundamental change and transformation. The authors develop a critique of the former and elaborate on the latter, focusing on normative visions of the social status quo and the role of sport as an educational tool for otherwise disempowered, marginalized young people. The overarching objective is to show that practitioners interested in using sport for development however defined must recognize these theoretical issues and create appropriate programming if their intended outcomes are to be achieved.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christina Kwauk•  3  Critical Pedagogy, Neoliberalism, Sport for DevelopmentSchulenkorf, N. (2017): “Managing Sport-for-Development: Reflections and Outlook”, Sport Management Review, 20(3), 143-151The field of sport-for-development (SFD) has experienced significant growth and increased academic rigor over the past 15 years. As sport management scholars have started to critically investigate and evaluate SFD programs, they have in... moreThe field of sport-for-development (SFD) has experienced significant growth and increased academic rigor over the past 15 years. As sport management scholars have started to critically investigate and evaluate SFD programs, they have in turn contributed to the future design and improvement of SFD initiatives that today are more strategically planned and pedagogically sound than ever before. As part of the 20th anniversary series of Sport Management Review, the author looks back at some of the key achievements of sport management scholarship and proposes new and exciting areas for future enquiry. In particular, while past research can be classified under the four headings of SFD programming and design; sustainable management and capacity building; creating and leveraging impacts and outcomes; and conceptual/theoretical advancements, the author suggests that future studies may attend to the managerial concepts of leadership, entrepreneurship and Design Thinking to maximise the potential of sport (management) to contribute to desired, innovative and sustained community development outcomes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nico Schulenkorf•  5  Entrepreneurship, Sports Management, Design thinking, Sport for DevelopmentC.L.R. James and a place for history in theorising 'sport for development and peaceRecent research suggests the need for robust theory building in the field of sport for development and peace (SDP). Recognising this, we argue for further attention to, and appreciation of, the historical context within which many SDP... moreRecent research suggests the need for robust theory building in the field of sport for development and peace (SDP). Recognising this, we argue for further attention to, and appreciation of, the historical context within which many SDP initiatives and research projects take place, with particular focus on the history of colonialism as it relates to sport. Drawing on the foundational work of C.L.R. James, we suggest that an historical approach, informed by insights from postcolonial theorising, encourages analyses of ambivalence, hybridity and even irony in the field of SDP. We use James&#39; insights, and recent appraisals of his work, to offer specific theoretical insights for the study of SDP, with a particular focus on social actors in context.Save to Libraryby Tarminder Kaur•  9  Marketing, Sociology, Development Studies, Sports History" When You're Born You Can't Even Talk, So Everybody Starts Somewhere " : The Lived Experiences of Sports Leadership TrainingThe ‘power of sport’ and its efficacy in personal and social development programmes has often been taken for granted. Despite the growing number of studies which have critically questioned how sport is used in developmental contexts,... moreThe ‘power of sport’ and its efficacy in personal and social development programmes has often been taken for granted. Despite the growing number of studies which have critically questioned how sport is used in developmental contexts, there has been seemingly little focus placed upon participants’ accounts of their sport-for-development experiences. My research explores individuals’ lived experiences of sports leadership courses, and their descriptions of the social interactions and feelings they encountered, in order to address the lack of experiential data in the current sport-for-development literature. An ethnographic methodology meant that I was immersed within the field. I was positioned as a moderate participant, which enabled me to reflect on my own sports leadership experiences. Data were collected through four sports leadership course observations and cyclical interviews over 4-10 months with eleven course attendees, plus individual interviews with five tutors. I adopted a phenomenologically-inspired perspective, utilising Merleau-Ponty’s (1986) concept of the lived body to emphasise the corporeal investments involved in such physically-oriented courses. Goffman’s (1959) presentation of the self and Hochschild’s (1979) emotion management were also applied to an exploration of individuals’ investment of self during their participation. My reflections from the field highlighted the wide variety of course locations, deliveries, participants, motivations, and tutors involved in sports leadership courses. The social and embodied aspects of the courses emerge as key influences upon individuals’ experiences, with the opportunity to learn intercorporeally becoming apparent as vital to individuals’ motivations and engagements. The crucial points of connection and disconnection individuals experienced can be thus understood through their descriptions of confidence, which encapsulates their mind-body-world relationships with the course. Therefore, this study is important in understanding the role of sport in sport-for-development courses, as it discusses how the physical elements of such courses provide a chance for individuals to invest their embodied selves into a personal development opportunity.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Scott•  6  Sociology of Sport, Ethnography, Embodiment, PhenomenologyTHE IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON GRASSROOTS SPORTSGrassroots sports, the local implementation of a variety of sporting types, are the backbone and feedstock of all of the major sporting venues and organisations throughout the world. The ongoing pandemic is hitting grassroots sports hard,... moreGrassroots sports, the local implementation of a variety of sporting types, are the backbone and feedstock of all of the major sporting venues and organisations throughout the world. The ongoing pandemic is hitting grassroots sports hard, exacerbating inequalities with regard to access to sports activities, both on the ground and online. This multicentric collective case study presents an in-depth exploration of the social impact of COVID-19, learning from the experience of four grassroots sports organisations in Australia, India, South Africa, andSpain. The case study recounts experiences from a constantly changingand challenging scenario and provides examples of what these grassroots sports organisations have done to navigate, recover and even thrive out of their national emergencies amidst a global pandemic. The study exposed a real diversity of actions with differential outcomes for people from various socioeconomic backgrounds. Practical implications for grassroots programmes during times of unprecedented challenge and notable turning points are highlighted. Compliance with policies and strict protocols has, perhaps, forever, changed how children, young people, and adults engage in grassroots sports.Save to LibraryDownloadby Magda  de Lange•  8  Sport for Development, Sports Security, Community Sport, Sport for Development, Peace EducationThe Emergence and Transformations of the World Cup for the HomelessThe Homeless World Cup (HWC) was first initiated for socially excluded homeless individuals in July 2003 and has been held annually ever since, growing exponentially in terms of size, media attention and corporate involvement. In this... moreThe Homeless World Cup (HWC) was first initiated for socially excluded homeless individuals in July 2003 and has been held annually ever since, growing exponentially in terms of size, media attention and corporate involvement. In this article, we aim to analyze the historical journey of the HWC from its conceptual formation to the end of its first decade (2003-2012). The paper looks particularly at the human efforts involved in bringing the concept to life and the initial management challenges the organizers faced before achieving this football tournament as an annual event dedicated for wider social purposes. However, we also discuss the use of competitive football formats as an appropriate vehicle for assisting individuals to regain or retain a place in mainstream society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando Segura M. Trejo•  10  Sociology, Sociology of Sport, Football (soccer), Sports HistorySPORTS HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT OF SPORT DEVELOPMENT INDEX IN PADANG, WEST SUMATRA, INDONESIA -EVALUATION STUDIES OF THE AVAILABILITY OF SPORTS HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENTSport Development Index is a way to measure the improvement of sport development in a region. This research measures sport development by using sports human resource management in Padang as the indicator. The purpose is to discover the... moreSport Development Index is a way to measure the improvement of sport development in a region. This research measures sport development by using sports human resource management in Padang as the indicator. The purpose is to discover the quality of sports human resource management in Padang examined from Sport Development Index and to analyze the availability of sports human resource. This research is conducted in Padang, West Sumatra Province, by taking data from 3 institutions as the scope of studies including the Education Authority, National Sports Committee of Indonesia (KONI), and a local non-formal institution. The research method applies qualitative and quantitative approaches. The qualitative data is collected through observation, document analysis and interview, while the quantitative data is taken by using a norm method of Sport Development Index. The result shows that the number of sport development in Padang based on the index of sports human resource management is 0.00082. According to the Sport Development Index, this number is within the range of 0.000-0.499. It means that sports human resource management belongs to low category quantitatively and qualitatively, or in the other words the quantity is deficient and the quality is low. To conclude, the sport development in Padang belongs to low category, thus the regional government needs to pay more attention and improve the sport development in the city.Save to LibraryDownloadby Open Access Publishing  Group•  21  Human Resource Development, Sports Management, Human Resource Management, Sport MarketingSport & Leisure Studies supplement (July 2014)Save to LibraryDownloadby Gazelle Academic•  13  Sport Psychology, Recreation & Leisure Studies, Sport Marketing, Sport for DevelopmentSchulenkorf, N., Sugden, J. and Burdsey, I. (2014), “Sport for Development and Peace as Contested Terrain: Place, Community, Ownership”, International Journal of Sport Policy and Politics, 6(3), 371-387Under the Sport for Development and Peace (SDP) umbrella, an increasing number of sport projects are staged all over the world to improve the social, cultural, educational or psychological circumstances of marginalized and/or fractured... moreUnder the Sport for Development and Peace (SDP) umbrella, an increasing number of sport projects are staged all over the world to improve the social, cultural, educational or psychological circumstances of marginalized and/or fractured communities. In research on such initiatives, only limited empirical examinations exist that focus specifically on garnering the perspectives of key players from local communities regarding value and impact of SDP. In addressing this issue, our study investigates the local lessons learnt from 13 Football for Peace (F4P) partnership projects that featured a mixture of Jewish, Arab, Bedouin and Circassian communities in Israel. Following an interpretive mode of enquiry, 30 interviews and two focus groups with key stakeholders were conducted, with an emphasis on exploring local experiences.Our findings highlight the diversity of community perspectives in relation to the following themes: values and delivery; engagement and commitment; and scope, regularity and sustainability. Specifically, our analysis illuminates the diverse interpretations and responses that exist in relation to the ethos, meanings and achievements of F4P, and calls for an appreciation of the intricacies, complexities and nuances in theway that the programme (and SDP work more generally) is received. Finally, the article demonstrates how the multiple theorizations and interpretations of community found within academic literature are reproduced and literally played out – but also contested, challenged, rejected and reformulated – in the practice of SDP.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nico Schulenkorf•  2  Sociology of Sport, Sport for DevelopmentOlympic rings of peace? The Olympic movement, peacemaking and intercultural understandingThis article examines the historical and contemporary links between Olympism and peacemaking. It traces the development of thought and praxis in relation to the Olympic movement's aim and capacity to promote peaceful coexistence and... moreThis article examines the historical and contemporary links between Olympism and peacemaking. It traces the development of thought and praxis in relation to the Olympic movement's aim and capacity to promote peaceful coexistence and intercultural understanding from the ancient Olympic Truce to the revival of the modern Olympic Games by Baron Pierre de Coubertin, to the current relationship between the Olympic movement and the United Nations peace agenda. The article highlights the perceived discrepancy between rhetoric and reality, and between theory and practice, as well as the persistent criticisms that have been levelled at the Olympic movement with regard to its peacemaking achievements, drawing together the key issues and debates addressed in this collection of papers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramon Spaaij•  5  Peace and Conflict Studies, Olympic Social Legacies, Sport for Development, 2012 London OlympicsSports Human Resource Management of Sport Development Index in Padang, West Sumatra, Indonesia -Evaluation Studies of the Availability of Sports Human Resource ManagementSport Development Index is a way to measure the improvement of sport development in a region. This research measures sport development by using sports human resource management in Padang as the indicator. The purpose is to discover the... moreSport Development Index is a way to measure the improvement of sport development in a region. This research measures sport development by using sports human resource management in Padang as the indicator. The purpose is to discover the quality of sports human resource management in Padang examined from Sport Development Index and to analyze the availability of sports human resource. This research is conducted in Padang, West Sumatra Province, by taking data from 3 institutions as the scope of studies including the Education Authority, National Sports Committee of Indonesia (KONI), and a local non-formal institution. The research method applies qualitative and quantitative approaches. The qualitative data is collected through observation, document analysis and interview, while the quantitative data is taken by using a norm method of Sport Development Index. The result shows that the number of sport development in Padang based on the index of sports human resource management is 0.0008...Save to LibraryDownloadby rusli lutan•  20  Business, Human Resource Development, Sports Management, Human Resource ManagementEl fútbol como forma de integración social: el campeonato inter-asociativo y el equipo de Francia en la HWCExisten dos miradas sobre los deportes modernos. Se los asocia por un lado a mecanismos de integración, de inclusión, de educación y de formación de valores, mientras que por otro se los considera como un instrumento de manipulación, una... moreExisten dos miradas sobre los deportes modernos. Se los asocia por un lado a mecanismos de integración, de inclusión, de educación y de formación de valores, mientras que por otro se los considera como un instrumento de manipulación, una herramienta política destinada a enmascarar los problemas sociales detrás de meros juegos de espectáculo. Dado que reconocemos que el deporte ha servido a nutrir las dos visiones. Buscaremos en este trabajo destacar los elementos envueltos en la primera postura. Tal es así que en frente a fenómenos como el aumento de la pobreza a nivel mundial, la marginación, los conflictos regionales, los movimientos de inmigración en masa y la exclusión social, la ONU acompañada por la UNESCO y la UNICEF promueven programas de ayuda a poblaciones en dificultades a través del deporte.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando Segura M. Trejo•  8  Sociology, Sociology of Sport, Football (soccer), Homelessness" …the Power to Change the World " ? – Analysis of Sport‐in‐Development Programmes in Khayelitsha, South Africa and its Challenges for Research(ers)In the last three decades, sport has gained impressive momentum as a tool for development – supported by international, national and local actors. Sport is seen as having the ability to improve social, cultural, educational and... moreIn the last three decades, sport has gained impressive momentum as a tool for development – supported by international, national and local actors. Sport is seen as having the ability to improve social, cultural, educational and psychological circumstances that frame the lives of marginalized and poor communities. Others have been more critically posing questions about the impact of sport to reach the proclaimed goals and about the ways to prove such. To shed light on the often broad and inscrutable sport-in-development field, this study analyses the value of sport for generating or inhibiting development, and which factors of sport-in-development projects in instable environments are decisive for success or failure. Additionally, the study generates knowledge regarding the challenges (Global North) researchers come across when conducting research in sport-in-development projects in poverty-stricken and marginalized areas.The study is underpinned by a sound theoretical framework. The theory on critical left-realism builds the philosophical superstructure of this study and guides the researcher to consider existing power relations within the society and to assess what can realistically be achieved by sport-in-development programs regarding individual and wider social development. Building on this, Bronfenbrenner’s bio-ecological theory on human development allows a systematic analysis of factors that influence the individual and the program as well as their mutual interactions. The social development model complements the theory of human development by exposing a framework that offers further explanatory approaches on how behaviour is coined. It also aims to examine what role sport-in-development programs and/or sport on its own plays in this regard. The theory of social change furthermore offers an orientation on how change processes may come about and shows that in any case these are not linear and depend on a range of factors that are reciprocally determined. The theory, therefore, presents a flexible approach for the study to uncover and classify change processes.In-depth data is gathered in and around four sport-in-development projects in Khayelitsha in South Africa over two six-month visits. The major focus is on participants, coaches and significant others as well as the socio-political context. In line with the need for a culture-sensitive and context-specific methodology, an ethnographic approach is adopted that employs a plurality of methods. Participant observation, including informal and formal conversations, as well as general field observations and researchers’ experiences are captured in field notes. A semi-structured interview guideline is used in this study to obtain information that is of major interest in the interviewees’ lives which allows for unanticipated themes to emerge.The study finds that beneficiaries living in a marginalized community with many socio-economic drawbacks benefit from sport-in-development projects that offer opportunities that are otherwise hardly available – and thereby increase beneficiaries’ well-being, at least during the time the beneficiaries are involved in the project. This positive change is not only found in beneficiaries, but also in the majority of their significant others. Among other reasons, this is due to significant others knowing where the participants and coaches are busy in a safe place. Findings furthermore indicate that when sport-in-development programs are well-designed and consider a range of enabling factors, programs can partly influence skill development and behaviour change. Sport itself thereby plays a rather subordinate role. Besides the factors within the programs, the impact strongly depends on the infrastructural, political and socio-economic circumstances in Khayelitsha that also affect the community. These contextual conditions influence the performance of the program as well as on the capacity to transfer learnt skills and behaviour into real-life situations. Therefore, any wider impact on other levels than the individual one is the exception and is subject to the individual’s unique biography, contextual circumstances, and structural inequalities. In essence, the study concludes that the high claims of sport being an effective tool for development cannot be met as there is no one-dimensional cause-effect-relationship.Regarding research in poverty-stricken and marginalized areas, findings indicate that the contextual influences in Khayelitsha strongly impact on the research process. The demands for research – often based on Western thought systems – cannot easily be transferred in the existing environment. Other influential factors for conducting research are the set-ups of the projects and the value placed on research at all levels. Additionally, the privileged background of the researcher, the underlying power structures between the researcher and the researched, the legacy of apartheid, isiXhosa culture, dominant gender ideologies and individual experiences personally challenge the researcher, and therefore influence the research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marie Biermann•  9  Sociology, Program Evaluation, International Development, Monitoring And EvaluationExperiencias de deporte para el desarrollo y la paz: claroscuros globales y localesSave to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Añorve and +2Fernando Segura M. TrejoAdriana Govea•  4  Sociology of Sport, Sport for Development, Sport for Development and Peace, Sports for PeaceCommentary: Reflections on Theory Building in Sport for Development and PeaceSave to LibraryDownloadby Ramon Spaaij•  3  Sociology of Sport, Sport for Development, Sport for Development and PeacePositive Youth Development Theory through SportSave to LibraryDownloadby Zachary Beldon•  4  Positive Youth Development, Sport for Development, Sport for Development and Peace, Positive Youth Sport DevelopmentIntegrating Sport for development and Peace programmes to lever social legacy within Sport Mega-Events: The Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games "Sport for Tomorrow" programmeThe Sport for Development and Peace (SDP) field using sport as social tool to develop socially excluded communities, became in the past two decades a leading global sport movement. In parallel the integration of SDP programme to generate... moreThe Sport for Development and Peace (SDP) field using sport as social tool to develop socially excluded communities, became in the past two decades a leading global sport movement. In parallel the integration of SDP programme to generate positive social legacy, has increased since the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games, leading the Tokyo bidding committee for the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic games to create an SDP programme. The Sport for Tomorrow programme was born and evolved in a complex environment, as Japan has short history with the SDP movement. Thus, this study examines the SFT design and implementation and its impact on local communities. To answer the research problems, this study undertakes a single explorative and interpretive case study, using a qualitative dataset represented by diverse online documents. These documents have been analysed through a thematic analysis. The main findings showed the Japanese government essentially used the programme as a diplomatic tool to gain soft power in developing countries, serving an elite-driven population. The study has reached several conclusive points: the lack of SFT including vulnerable communities; the IOC’s structure can foster SDP integration; an enhanced relationship between the SDP movement and SMEs stakeholders is required. This study also demonstrates that by adopting the S4D framework and NGOs assistance in the bidding and candidature process the IOC has the potential to change the conversation around Sport Mega-Events (SMEs) by fostering hosting communities positive social and cultural legacy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Niels Lengrand•  6  Japan, Sport for Development, Mega events and legacy, Sport for Development and PeaceFútbol para Tod@sCápsula video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=scDwB4tXYCE&feature=emb_logoSave to Libraryby Fernando Segura M. Trejo•  7  Sporting Events, Social Inclusion, Sport for Development, FutbolHoy podemos perder: nuevos valores en el fútbolEntrevista, Hoy podemos perder (FM La Patriada, Argentina) disponible: https://ar.radiocut.fm/audiocut/fernando-segura-trejo-sobre-futbol-y-nuevos-valores-en-futbol/Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando Segura M. Trejo•  5  Sociology of Sport, Argentina, Sport for Development, FutbolEntrevista: el fútbol desde una perspectiva sociológica y de políticas públicasEn entrevista con Agencia Informativa Conacyt, el investigador explica en qué consiste esta área del conocimiento, el impacto de las políticas públicas que se aplican; los matices positivos y negativos de la práctica y el consumo del... moreEn entrevista con Agencia Informativa Conacyt, el investigador explica en qué consiste esta área del conocimiento, el impacto de las políticas públicas que se aplican; los matices positivos y negativos de la práctica y el consumo del deporte en la sociedad. Como parte de la contribución a los estudios que sobre esta disciplina en América Latina, fueron compilados una serie de trabajos en la revista Gestión y Política Pública que edita el CIDE, en el volumen temático 2015 titulado Políticas Públicas del Deporte.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando Segura M. Trejo•  6  Sport for Development, Periodismo, Políticas Públicas, FutbolPercepciones y situaciones en el Mundial de los Desamparados: La Homeless World CupExiste desde el año 2003 un mundial de fútbol para personas desamparadas o en situación de calle. Después de la edición de París 2011, el Zócalo de la ciudad de México fue designado para albergarlo en octubre 2012. De acuerdo con los... moreExiste desde el año 2003 un mundial de fútbol para personas desamparadas o en situación de calle. Después de la edición de París 2011, el Zócalo de la ciudad de México fue designado para albergarlo en octubre 2012. De acuerdo con los organizadores: “Un balón puede cambiar el mundo”. Para demostrarlo presentan estadísticas seis meses después de cada edición, indicando un impacto altamente positivo en los jugadores. Sin embargo, varios interrogantes surgen. ¿Qué sucede realmente con estos jugadores homeless? Luego de seguir a tres delegaciones en Francia; antes, durante y después del acontecimiento, los impactos identificados son múltiples. Los mismos revisten tanto elementos objetivos como percepciones sumamente diferentes. Conviene, por lo tanto, revisar cuáles son los efectos observados y los límites que pueden desprenderse de esta experiencia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando Segura M. Trejo•  11  Homelessness, Sporting Events, Soccer, EventsSchulenkorf, N. and Adair, D. (eds) (2014): "Global Sport-for-Development: Critical Perspectives", Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 280pages, ISBN: 978-1-137-28962-9In recent years, sport has been used as an instrument through which wider development objectives are pursued. This includes sport as a means to create awareness about the risks of HIV; sport as a vehicle to counter inter-group hostility;... moreIn recent years, sport has been used as an instrument through which wider development objectives are pursued. This includes sport as a means to create awareness about the risks of HIV; sport as a vehicle to counter inter-group hostility; and sport as an environment where children can find respite in the wake of military conflict. The use of sport for development purposes is neither simple nor inherently successful. It is therefore regrettable that some of the agents and organisations involved in development programs provide evangelistic accounts of their activities, thus suggesting that field work is unproblematic. By contrast, this book provides a critical approach to sport-for-development, acknowledging the potential of this growing field but emphasising challenges, problems and limitations – particularly if programs are not adequately planned, delivered or monitored. The book features both critical theory and reflective praxis, and will thus be useful to both academics and practitioners.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nico Schulenkorf•Sport for DevelopmentSport for Peace: Recommendations for MexicoWe cannot talk about sports without thinking about Peace, those two concepts are complementary manifestations, and in every field, have been together along history. On this occasion, we have in our hands a work that addresses the existing... moreWe cannot talk about sports without thinking about Peace, those two concepts are complementary manifestations, and in every field, have been together along history. On this occasion, we have in our hands a work that addresses the existing influence and relation between sports and Peace as personal and social development tools, which merge into inherent values such as respect, solidarity, teamwork and its union power, which in the end, are factors that are always looking forward for the well-being. Through different expressions, many aspects of our lives weave together into sports, which somehow, is the leading axis, a development platform of individual and group growing that has physical activation, in its different expressions, is the ideal excuse to forge and integrate societies, such as the Olympics does. Either is a recreational, formative or competitive sport, it is always inclusive. The same can be integrated it in school as part of the daily activities that young students do for health and training; as to smooth things out and achieve agreements between opposing countries. The strength of sports radicates on its universality, its ability to adapt the regulations and laws of every country and, in full digital era, its range of reaching is even higher to expanding widely any action or message thanks to the technology advances, always with the invaluable support of new generations. And as sports is education, learning, discipline, motivation, competition, solidarity... those and many other core values that also contribute to Peace, "Sports for Peace" shows us part of them and takes us to reflect on the benefits of leveraging sports as a universal language and an authentic peacemaker agent.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leonardo  Mataruna•  20  Peace and Conflict Studies, Central America and Mexico, Mexico History, Olympics and OlympismPlaying for the future: Sport and the production of healthy bodies in policy and practiceAt the core of this dissertation is a critical examination of the disjuncture between the policy and practice of sport for development. Drawing on a vertical case study of gender, sport, and education in the Pacific Island nation of... moreAt the core of this dissertation is a critical examination of the disjuncture between the policy and practice of sport for development. Drawing on a vertical case study of gender, sport, and education in the Pacific Island nation of Sāmoa, the study illuminates how a healthy islands through sport (HITS) policy world centered around using sport to create healthier bodies for a thriving nation is discursively created in inter/national policy but effectively separate and detached from the gendered logics guiding already existing translocal practices of sport for development. This practice, as described to me by my interlocutors, observed through twelve months of ethnographic fieldwork, and quantitatively surveyed, includes ideas about development centered around the translocal ʻāiga (family) rather than the territorial boundaries of the nation, tautua (service) rather than health behavior change, and alofa (love) rather than one’s body size. Locally imagined sport for development also intricately ties together notions of transnational mobility and globalization with shifting practices of masculinity and muscularity, raises important questions about the purpose and kind of education needed for development, and highlights a local field of action that ironically coexists with a prescribed policy world focused on using sport to recalibrate unruly bodies into virtuous bio-citizens. Contrasting etic and emic constructions of sport in development, this dissertation makes two arguments. First, it highlights how many Samoans view sport as a roundtrip ticket off island toward economic opportunity and the imagined good life. In this case, it is not necessarily the quest to produce a healthy body that attracts Samoan youth, especially men, to sport but rather its potential to move bodies into more central locations within a global economy of remittances that makes sport popular. Second, this study demonstrates how inter/national development policy does not drive local practice. Instead, development actors sustain policy through a strategic process of social interpretation and translation that serves to align practice with policy at the surface while concealing deeper disjunctures of practice below. By juxtaposing what sport for development policy in Sāmoa is intended to achieve with how it is actually practiced, imagined, and socially managed, this dissertation foregrounds a dialectic of development imaginations that multiply shape the ways “playing for the future” has been incorporated into the development imaginations of Samoan youth, educators, community leaders, and government officials.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christina Kwauk•  10  Globalization, Ethnography, Pacific Island Studies, International DevelopmentOpinion: Can council-funded sport survive austerity?Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel  Parnell•  10  Sociology of Sport, Sports Management, Local Government, Local Government and Local DevelopmentBeyond Girl Power and the Girl Effect:  The Girling of Sport for Development and PeaceIn this chapter, we seek to stimulate new considerations of girls, girlhood and the girling of SDP (Chawansky and Hayhurst, 2015) in order to move research and writing beyond the important mapping exercises and overview essays that... moreIn this chapter, we seek to stimulate new considerations of girls, girlhood and the girling of SDP (Chawansky and Hayhurst, 2015) in order to move research and writing beyond the important mapping exercises and overview essays that dominated the first phase of work within the sport for development and peace (SDP) sector (Brady, 1998, 2005; Brady and Khan, 2002; Saavedra, 2009; Meier, 2005; Kidd and Donnelly, 2007; Chawansky, 2011; Hillyer et al., 2011; Hancock et al., 2013). While these early works were necessary to explore the possibilities for and the presence (or invisibility) of girls and gender within SDP, we offer three suggestions for the next phase of SDP research in an attempt to encourage new considerations. These three suggestions are: the adoption of girls’ studies as a theoretical lens; increased critical analysis of popular representations of girls within international development and SDP; and the utilization of larger conceptual reference points for understanding girls and their experiences. We begin by establishing the larger context of our chapter and then provide brief explanations of the three points listed above. We believe that this chapter will take SDP research beyond discussions of girl power and the Girl Effect and into the important next phase of research on, with, and about girls in SDP.Save to LibraryDownloadby Megan  Chawansky•  3  Sociology of Sport, Sport for Development, GirlsSPORTING LIVES AND " DEVELOPMENT " AGENDAS: a critical analysis of sport and "development" nexus in the context of farm workers of the Western CapeThis thesis is about the sporting lives of people who work and/or live at the commercial grape and wine farms of the Western Cape. Collectively referred to as farm workers, they are identified by the Western Cape Provincial Government as... moreThis thesis is about the sporting lives of people who work and/or live at the commercial grape and wine farms of the Western Cape. Collectively referred to as farm workers, they are identified by the Western Cape Provincial Government as a priority group in need of “development”. Over the past 15 or so years, proclamations and practices of “sport for development and peace” (SDP) have emerged as globally recognised phenomena, where sport is promoted as a tool to achieve a broad range of “development” objectives, including the Millennium Development Goals. As a research topic, SDP scholars examine the practical and theoretical usefulness of sport as a tool for addressing a diverse set of social, health, political and economic issues through education, diplomacy, inclusion, and awareness programmes. Instead of attending to the questions of whether or how sport might serve “development” ends, this study offers a critical analysis of the nexus between sport and “development” (SDN) in the context of farm workers of the Western Cape. Informed by James Ferguson’s analysis of “development” as an ‘anti-politics machine’ (1990), I adopt a deconstructionist approach that examines issues beyond the narrow confines of “development” problems and programmes. As he argues, “development” continues to serve as a ‘central organising concept’ to discuss and assess desired change in social and economic realms, which is evident in the programmes of farm worker “development,” and how these continue to retain a place in the policy and political discourses on agrarian transformation in post-apartheid South Africa. With an appreciation of the Western Cape’s agrarian history and politics and how they shape present-day farm labour conditions, I have critically analysed the discourses and practices of farm worker “development” and SDP in the light of broader structural realities, everyday sporting lives and the “development” experiences of farm workers. The central organising question of this thesis is: how do “development” problems and the solutions sought for in SDP discourses and programmes correspond to the social, economic and political realities of their subjects? Drawing on my ethnographic fieldwork conducted at farmlands in and around Rawsonville, a small rural town, from April 2012 to May 2013, I illustrate different and seemingly disconnected frames and positions from which theories of SDP and farm workers’ experiences of sport and “development” were observed. The analysis is organised around three contrasting frames of observation, namely: 1) historical and contemporary discourses and politics of farm worker “development” and SDP programmes and practices, 2) structural arrangements of competitive and physical infrastructure for official sport, and 3) everyday (official and unofficial) sporting practices and experiences of the rural working class people. With a particular attention to continuities and contradictions in historical and contemporary farm worker “development” discourses and selected SDP case studies, I demonstrate that while SDP agendas directed at farm workers may serve divergent and at times conflicting interests, farm workers’ own agency, initiative and aspirations do not feature in SDP programmes and broader “development” discourses. The contrasts and counter-narratives presented in discussing these case studies and stories complicate and contest simplified notions commonly projected in global SDP discourses and locally specific “development” agendas. Beyond the confines of sporadic and temporary SDP projects, there was a vibrant and active world of formal and informal sport among the farm workers of Rawsonville. By focusing on the everyday sporting lives of athletes, coaches, managers, organisers and soccer clubs, I paint a picture that reveals the diversity and inconsistency of experiences and meanings of farm worker as an identity, a class position and an occupation. Interrogating how farm workers were embedded within the broader rural sport structures, I describe the complex set of factors that shaped their experiences of, access to, and participation in, sport. I argue that while sport was passionately pursued irrespective of direct or corollary “development” benefits, it was unofficial and under-the-radar sport networks and practices that served as vital spaces of autonomy, initiative and self-realization, even for those who may not otherwise have had such opportunities. And while the politically disengaged and enthusiastically embraced qualities of sport may continue to be among the reasons for its traction in “development” and peace agendas, these very same qualities allow sport to be usefully employed as an ethnographic method. Among the formative turns I took in conducting and presenting my research observations was to implicate myself and invite the reader into the confusing and complex process of learning and knowledge production.  By way of conclusion, I argue for refocusing the gaze of research on studying sport as part of the broader scope of subaltern sociality.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tarminder Kaur•  7  Development Studies, Ethnography, Agrarian Studies, South African Politics and SocietyRecreation or rehabilitation? Managing sport for development programs with prison populationsThe provision of sport and recreation programs to inmates within the prison system provides a unique context to investigate the role of sport in enacting social change. Three main aims of prison-based sport programs have been identified... moreThe provision of sport and recreation programs to inmates within the prison system provides a unique context to investigate the role of sport in enacting social change. Three main aims of prison-based sport programs have been identified in research: inmate healthand wellbeing, inmate rehabilitation, and inmate management. This paper presents four case studies of sport programs in prisons across Australia. Inmates completed qualitative interviews in order to investigate program outcomes, design, and delivery. Although theparticipants in the four case studies came from substantially different prison populations (male, female, Indigenous, intellectual disability, general population) and geographic locations, there were key themes across the groups. Outcomes for both inmates and prisons tended to focus on inmate health and wellbeing and inmate management. Sportand recreation programs appeared to have a positive influence on inmates’ health and behaviour; however, the efficacy of rehabilitation efforts through sport remains uncertain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emma Sherry•  4  Sociology of Sport, Sport for Development, Sport, Sport ManagementPositive Youth Development through a Co-Designed Modified Boxing ProgramA modified boxing program in which youth and adults participated together ran for almost five years at an Australian community youth club. It was initially focused on preparing participants for occasional modified boxing competitions in... moreA modified boxing program in which youth and adults participated together ran for almost five years at an Australian community youth club. It was initially focused on preparing participants for occasional modified boxing competitions in which impacts to the head and neck were prohibited and any forceful impacts were penalized. The Head Coach of the program initiated regular small-group and individual discussions with participants and used the outcomes to guide program iteration. The participants became co-designers of the program and therefore architects of their own sport experience. This led to substantial changes in the nature of the program, with interpersonal competition progressively de-emphasized and eventually almost entirely removed. Increased attention was directed to building a cohesive, inclusive community and engaging in cooperative endeavours that provided a shared sense of purpose. Natural adult mentors emerged, and some adolescents took on peer leadership roles. Through a partnership between the club and a local university, program participants became involved in diverse research activities aimed at program improvement. Young program participants began to anecdotally report obtaining broad-ranging benefits from the program, and these reports were subjectively corroborated by parents and natural mentors. To determine the nature of any such benefits, we examined records of discussions that the Head Coach had logged in a detailed journal over the course of the program. We targeted a purposeful sample that included six young program participants and twelve adults who had varying program connections. Thematic analysis performed on the records of discussions with the selected subjects revealed that the most common perceived benefits that young people derived from the program were increased determination, increased self-confidence How to cite this paper: Perkins, P. and Hahn, A. (2020) Positive Youth Development through a Co-Designed Modified and enhanced leadership skills. Specific program features most clearly associated with these outcomes were fostering of positive and supportive relationships , collaborative involvement of the young people in determining program directions and provision of opportunities for positive observational learning. These findings are consistent with published literature and contemporary theories on positive youth development. Although positive youth development was not the explicit objective of the modified boxing program, the establishment of functional youth-adult partnerships and co-design procedures in the program environment caused the program to take on characteristics that research has identified as critical to attainment of positive youth development outcomes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul Perkins and +1Allan  Hahn•  6  Sociology of Sport, Positive Youth Development, Sport for Development, Sports CoachingSport for Development and Peace: Power, Politics, and PatronageSport for development and peace (SDP) is a rapidly growing field of activity in which sport is used as an intervention tool in order to pursue wider, non-sporting social goals. Organized into three main parts, this paper examines issues... moreSport for development and peace (SDP) is a rapidly growing field ofactivity in which sport is used as an intervention tool in order topursue wider, non-sporting social goals. Organized into three mainparts, this paper examines issues of power, politics, and patronagewith respect to the SDP sector’s organization and the implementation of programs particularly in the global South. First, drawing on a sociological approach broadly derived from Pierre Bourdieu, we examine how the SDP sector is structured, featuring a variety of stakeholders with different interests and aspirations; we explore in particular the potential influence of relatively marginal campaign groups and new social movements. Second, we identify the complex issues and challenges of patronage and mutuality that arise in international SDP work involving the global North (donor) and global South (recipient) in the post-colonial context. Third, we consider how these issues impact upon the design, implementation, and effects of SDP programs with particular reference to relations of power between the global North and South. We conclude by advancing the case for a “bottom-up”, and more culturally andpolitically sensitive approach to be adopted by SDP stakeholders,particularly those based in the global North.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramon Spaaij and +1Richard Giulianotti•  3  Sociology of Sport, Development Studies, Sport for DevelopmentEducation for Social Change? A Freirean Critique of Sport for Development and PeaceSave to LibraryDownloadby Ramon Spaaij•  4  Development Studies, Critical Pedagogy, Sport for Development, Sports PedagogyMisener, L. and Schulenkorf, N. (2016): “Re-Thinking the Social Value of Sport Events through an Asset-Based Community Development (ABCD) Perspective”, Journal of Sport Management, 30(3), 329-340With an increasing emphasis on the social value of sport and events, there has been a shift in focus regarding the management and development process of event projects as well as their associated outcomes. This shift is about emphasizing... moreWith an increasing emphasis on the social value of sport and events, there has been a shift in focus regarding the management and development process of event projects as well as their associated outcomes. This shift is about emphasizing a more strategic approach to developing social benefits by recognizing and utilizing leverageable resources related to sport events as a means of fostering lasting social and economic change (Chalip, 2006; O’Brien & Chalip, 2007; Schulenkorf & Edwards, 2012). In this paper, we adapt and apply the asset-based community development (ABCD) approach as a means of developing a more action-oriented, community-based approach to leveraging the social assets of sporting events. In applying the ABCD approach, we aim to shift the focus of event-led projects away from attempts to “solve” social problems (i.e., deficit perspective) to enhancing the existing strengths of communities (i.e., strengths perspective). We reflect on case study findings that highlight the challenges and opportunities in realizing an ABCD approach for disadvantaged communities through an examination of a healthy lifestyle community event initiative in the Pacific Islands.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nico Schulenkorf•  7  Community Development, Event Management, Sports Management, Events managementSchulenkorf, N. (2016): “The Contributions of Special Events to Sport-for-Development Programs”, Journal of Sport Management, 30(6), 629-642For several years, sport-for-development (SFD) programs have been implemented around the world to make a positive difference for disadvantaged or underprivileged communities. Within this context, special events have been used to... moreFor several years, sport-for-development (SFD) programs have been implemented around the world to make a positive difference for disadvantaged or underprivileged communities. Within this context, special events have been used to complement regular development activities to celebrate social, cultural, and sporting achievements. To date, little managerial work has been conducted on the specific contributions that special events can play in the context of ongoing SFD endeavors. In addressing this issue, this paper presents findings from an empirical investigation of a participatory SFD event in the Pacific Islands. Findings suggest that special events can create new interest and excitement for SFD activities, reengage stakeholders to the wider SFD program, leverage partnerships, and provide opportunities to build and shape local management capacity. In discussing these findings, the paper highlights potential positive and negative impacts of special SFD events and provides practical and theoretical implications for SFD program design, management, and leverage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nico Schulenkorf•  8  Pacific Island Studies, Community Development, Event Management, Sports ManagementSpaaij, R. and Schulenkorf, N. (2014), “Cultivating safe space: Lessons for sport for development projects and events”, Journal of Sport Management, 28(6), 633-645Recent research has examined how sports events and sport-for-development projects can create, sustain, and maximize positive social impacts for local communities. This article takes this debate forward by arguing that the cultivation of... moreRecent research has examined how sports events and sport-for-development projects can create, sustain, and maximize positive social impacts for local communities. This article takes this debate forward by arguing that the cultivation of safe space is a key ingredient of sport-for-development, management and community event leverage. Safe space is conceptualized as a multidimensional process that involves physical, psychological/affective, sociocultural, political, and experimental dimensions. Drawing on empirical findings from Sri Lanka, Israel, and Brazil, the article shows how these dimensions of safe space operate and interact in practice, andidentifies practical strategies that sport managers, policymakers, and practitioners can use to cultivate safespaces in and through sports projects and events.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nico Schulenkorf•  3  Sociology of Sport, Sports Management, Sport for DevelopmentRio 2016 and disability - An analysis on the Sport-For-Development discourse and the legacies for disabled peopleThis paper investigates how the legacy of the 2016 Paralympic Games, in Rio de Janeiro, has been discussed on the Facebook page ‘Cidade Olímpica.’ The City Council of Rio De Janeiro manages this page, which uses the Sport- For-Development... moreThis paper investigates how the legacy of the 2016Paralympic Games, in Rio de Janeiro, has been discussed onthe Facebook page ‘Cidade Olímpica.’ The City Council ofRio De Janeiro manages this page, which uses the Sport-For-Development discourse in order to disclose informationabout projects that are being developed in the city, and tojustify the investments that are made with public money.Furthermore, the main objective of this paper is to identifywhether the Sport-For-Development discourse has been usedto discuss the legacies for disabled people. This study wasdeveloped during the 2014 FIFA World Cup because it wasduring that period that the Brazilian government releaseddetails of some of the main projects for the Olympics andthen presented the great planned impacts of these legacies.The season of that mega event was important for the countryin order to promote Brazil as a strong brand for tourism andsport for development. Consequentially, this periodrepresented an opportunity to address the Paralympic legacytopic, similar to the entire legacy of the Games and theirimpacts on society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leonardo  Mataruna and +2Thiago MeloAndressa Guimarães•  6  Sociology of Sport, Communication, Social Sciences, Disability Studies‘Getting inside the wicket’: Strategies for the social inclusion of British Pakistani Muslim cricketersThe England and Wales Cricket Board are keen to increase the participation of British Asian groups, including those of British Pakistani Muslim (BPM) backgrounds, at mainstream levels of the game in order to meet their twin strategic aims... moreThe England and Wales Cricket Board are keen to increase the participation of British Asian groups, including those of British Pakistani Muslim (BPM) backgrounds, at mainstream levels of the game in order to meet their twin strategic aims of raising participation levels and fostering elite development. We argue that the potential to include BPM men in and through cricket is achievable, but strategies to engage them must address their social needs and circumstances rather than be superficial and tokenistic. Cricket agencies and bodies must be willing to adapt and change to become more inclusive, and indeed supportive of real meritocracy. Using research testimonies garnered from interviews with BPM men who play cricket at amateur mainstream and/or alternative formats of the game, we identify and forward strategies that can be activated by cricket development officers in order to create new possibilities for the social inclusion ofBPM men.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefan Lawrence and +2Aarti RatnaJanine Partington•  10  Sociology of Sport, Race and Racism, Community Development, Talent managementSport for development with 'at risk' girls in St. LuciaWhile sport for development programming has flourished, the complex social and economic environment in the postcolonial Eastern Caribbean is often overlooked by researchers. This case study examines sport for development with ‘at risk’... moreWhile sport for development programming has flourished, the complex social and economic environment in the postcolonial Eastern Caribbean is often overlooked by researchers. This case study examines sport for development with ‘at risk’ adolescent girls in St. Lucia (n = 16). These young women, who have been removed from mainstream public schools due to behavioural issues, participated in focus group discussions regarding their experiences and perspectives on sport. Their sport participation included single-sex, organised programming at the Upton Gardens Girls Centre and mixed-sex, unsupervised football play. Results of the study indicate that these sporting activities contributed towards the capability development of the participants,  with limitations toward challenging gender stereotypes and encouraging kinetically focused body image. While the female-only sport participation encouraged a positive sense of self-efficacy and fostered peer/mentor relationships, engagement in co-educational football supported girls’ empowerment and the challenging of gender stereotypes. However, outcome towards progressive perspectives on sport and body image gleaned mixed results. As a whole, these results point to larger concerns within the sport for development field and the need for more in-depth and comprehensive critical research to better understand how sport impacts development initiatives.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah  Zipp•  6  Caribbean Studies, Sports and Gender, Gender and Sport, Sport for DevelopmentNextLast »Related TopicsSocial CapitalFollowFollowingSocial IdentityFollowFollowingSports DevelopmentFollowFollowingInternational DevelopmentFollowFollowingCommunity DevelopmentFollowFollowingSpecific Relief and Contract LawFollowFollowingSociology of SportFollowFollowingGender and SportFollowFollowingSport for Development and PeaceFollowFollowingSports facilities managementFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023