The Czech - Interlingue dictionary | Glosbe
 
☰
 
Log in 
 
Glosbe
Dictionary 
Czech - Interlingue
Czech
Interlingue
Glosbe is a home for thousands of dictionaries. We provide not only dictionary Czech - Interlingue, but also dictionaries for every existing pairs of languages - online and for free. 
Translations from dictionary Czech - Interlingue, definitions, grammar 
In Glosbe you will find translations from Czech into Interlingue coming from various sources. The translations are sorted from the most common to the less popular. We make every effort to ensure that each expression has definitions or information about the inflection. 
In context translations Czech - Interlingue, translated sentences 
Glosbe dictionaries are unique. In Glosbe you can check not only Czech or Interlingue translations. We also offer usage examples showing dozens of translated sentences. You can see not only the translation of the phrase you are searching for, but also how it is translated depending on the context. 
Translation memory for Czech - Interlingue languages 
The translated sentences you will find in Glosbe come from parallel corpora (large databases with translated texts). Translation memory is like having the support of thousands of translators available in a fraction of a second. 
Pronunciation, recordings 
Often the text alone is not enough. We also need to hear what the phrase or sentence sounds like. In Glosbe you will find not only translations from the Czech-Interlingue dictionary, but also audio recordings and high-quality computer readers. 
Picture dictionary 
A picture is worth more than a thousand words. In addition to text translations, in Glosbe you will find pictures that present searched terms. 
Automatic Czech - Interlingue translator 
Do you need to translate a longer text? No problem, in Glosbe you will find a Czech - Interlingue translator that will easily translate the article or file you are interested in. 
Join over 600.000 users and help us build the best dictionary in the world.
Add translation
Add translation
Help us to build the best dictionary.
Glosbe is a community based project created by people just like you.
Please, add new entries to the dictionary.
Add translation
Recent changes
more 
Statistics of the Czech - Interlingue dictionary 
3,320
Phrases 
313
Examples 
more 
Language Czech
Region
Native to: Czech Republic
Official language in:  Czech Republic  European Union
Users
10,700,000
more
Language Interlingue
more
Glosbe
Proudly made with ♥ in Poland
Tools
Dictionary builder
Pronunciation recorder
Add translations in batch
Add examples in batch
Transliteration
All dictionaries 
About
About Glosbe
Partners
Privacy policy
Terms of Service
Help
Stay in touch
Facebook
Twitter
Contact
 