Autonomist Marxism Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Autonomist Marxism13,513 FollowersRecent papers in Autonomist MarxismTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleSpecial Issue on Foucault and Deleuze: IntroductionSave to LibraryDownloadby Nicolae Morar and +2Thomas NailDaniel W Smith•  144  Critical Theory, Discourse Analysis, History, Cultural HistorySur les origines du General Intellect de MarxSave to LibraryDownloadby Matteo  Pasquinelli•  11  History of Science and Technology, History Of Computing, Marxism, Post-MarxismDigitizing Karl Marx: The New Political Economy of General Intellect and Immaterial LaborProduction, distribution, and consumption of digital use values occur today in a sociotechnological setting quite different from that characterizing the industrial economic system. Thanks to increasing access to hardware, software, and... moreProduction, distribution, and consumption of digital use values occur today in a sociotechnological setting quite different from that characterizing the industrial economic system. Thanks to increasing access to hardware, software, and the Internet—the means of production in the digital economy—a growing multitude of digital immaterial labors contributes to the digital economy within a culture of sharing and (a culture of) nonexclusionary use of resources. As various online sharing platforms illustrate, digital immaterial labor constitutes a collective and collaborative productive force, an online general intellect, that cannot be reified in the means of production traditionally under the control of capital. This dynamic allows the online multitude to organize itself independently of the logic and management of capital. Capital, however, has been able to develop strategies, peculiar to this new socioeconomic system, that aim to control and profit from the collective intelligence created by digital immaterial labor.Save to Libraryby Serhat  Kologlugil•  9  Digital Humanities, Marxism, History of Economic Thought, Digital MediaAutonomia e abolizione dell'arte. Emergenze maodadaiste nel movimento del SettantasetteC’è almeno un aspetto della generale prassi antagonista esercitata dal movimento autonomo italiano degli anni settanta che, ancora oggi, meriterebbe un’attenzione critica svincolata dal ricorrente discorso sui cosiddetti anni di piombo,... moreC’è almeno un aspetto della generale prassi antagonista esercitata dal movimento autonomo italiano degli anni settanta che, ancora oggi, meriterebbe un’attenzione critica svincolata dal ricorrente discorso sui cosiddetti anni di piombo, ed è quello relativo alla pratica-teorica maodadaista, sistematizzata nel 1976 dal collettivo bolognese A/traverso. Tale emergenzaculturale riconfigurò i tradizionali modi della comunicazione politica e produsse effetti, oggi relativamente ignorati, anche nella teoria dell’arte. Nelle seguenti pagine, la tematizzazione di alcune forme di autorappresentazione riconducibili al paradigma maodadaista sarà condotta e accompagnata dall’analisi dei concetti nel titolo anticipati, dei loro incontri realizzati e degli sviluppi presenti e possibili.Save to LibraryDownloadby Danilo Mariscalco•  17  Cultural Studies, Visual Studies, Media Studies, Media and Cultural StudiesL'autonomie politique de la fin des années 1970, entre continuité et ruptureSave to Libraryby Jean-Octave Guérin•  4  Contemporary History, Autonomy, Social History, Autonomist Marxism12 TESI CONTRO LA PANDEMIA POLITICA E SOCIALESave to LibraryDownloadby Michele Nobile•  15  Marxism, Political Ecology, Marxism and Ecology, Social-Ecological SystemsPrefigure Self-governance and Self-organization: the influence of (pro)feminist, radical queer and anti-racist networks in QuebecIn this chapter, we argue that there are three important micro cohorts--different social movement threads--of antiauthoritarian activists engaged in self-organization at the grassroots level in Quebec today: (1) radical feminists, (2)... moreIn this chapter, we argue that there are three important micro cohorts--different social movement threads--of antiauthoritarian activists engaged in self-organization at the grassroots level in Quebec today: (1) radical feminists, (2) radical queers, and (3) feminists and profeminists organizing in antiracist and anticolonial groups and networks. Furthermore, these micro cohorts have played a role in developing radical analysis, strategy, and organizational modes in a variety of spaces inside, overlapping with, and external to the broader antiauthoritarian movement they/we are part ofSave to LibraryDownloadby Sandra Jeppesen and +2Anna KruzynskiRachel Sarrasin•  30  Sociology, Social Movements, Queer Studies, Organizational TheoryAgainst Education: Hobbes and Locke’s Educational Tools for the Modernist/Colonial Counter-RevolutionThe contemporary Left almost universally takes for granted that some form of education is a good thing. Consider the slogans of “defend public education” and “education not incarceration.” I contend that this romanticizing of education... moreThe contemporary Left almost universally takes for granted that some form of education is a good thing. Consider the slogans of “defend public education” and “education not incarceration.” I contend that this romanticizing of education creates problems for the Left’s projects. Paraphrasing Audre Lorde, they attempt to “use the master’s tools to dismantle the master’s house.” In this paper, looking at two theorists of modern government, Hobbes and Locke, I show how the purposes of their theories of education were tied up with proto-capitalist, counter-revolutionary reactions to anti-feudal struggles. Comparing them, I reveal how the counter-revolutionary character of education that was clear in Hobbes continues in Locke but in a more surreptitious way that sets up some of the basic elements of education as we know it today. Locke promotes education as a technology of the self for individualizing, privatizing, and de-politicizing the problem of managing the contradictions of the modernist/colonial world order. Through education’s collaboratively constructed emotional credit/debt economy, the ‘self’ is supposed to become autonomous, sovereign, and independent enough to self-govern its own boundaries. Divisions of gender, class, and race allow Locke to set up a bounded subject for the educator. Those who are excluded from this subject-form are the co-constitutive Others of education.Save to LibraryDownloadby Eli Meyerhoff•  13  Critical Theory, Education, Political Theory, History of EducationUrban and housing commons. Housing as commons. Αστικά και οικιστικά κοινά. Η κατοικία ως κοινό (Πτυχιακή εργασία)Πτυχιακή εργασία που εκπονήθηκε το ακαδημαϊκό έτος 2019-20 στα πλαίσια του προπτυχιακού προγράμματος σπουδών του τμήματος Οικονομικών Επιστημών του Πανεπιστημίου Θεσσαλίας. Βαλιάντζας Ζαχαρίας (Ζάχος) Επιβλέπων καθηγητής : Αρβανιτίδης... moreΠτυχιακή εργασία που εκπονήθηκε το ακαδημαϊκό έτος 2019-20στα πλαίσια του προπτυχιακού προγράμματος σπουδών του τμήματος Οικονομικών Επιστημών του Πανεπιστημίου Θεσσαλίας.Βαλιάντζας Ζαχαρίας (Ζάχος)Επιβλέπων καθηγητής : Αρβανιτίδης Πασχάλης, αναπληρωτής καθηγητήςΠανεπιστήμιο Θεσσαλίας Σχολή Οικονομικών και Διοικητικών ΕπιστημώνSave to LibraryDownloadby Zachos Valiantzas•  11  Social Movements, Commons, Housing, Urban Social MovementsThe Newburgh Conspiracy: America’s First Attempted Coup (full version)Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Ovetz, Ph.D.•  13  Anarchism, Post-Marxism, Capitalism, Marxism (Political Science)Why is management a cliche?Save to LibraryDownloadby Stefano Harney•  2  Critical Management Studies, Autonomist MarxismSubcommander Marcos: The Man and the MaskSave to LibraryDownloadby Robert Ovetz, Ph.D.•  21  Social Movements, Marxism, Latin American politics, Social MovementNegri on Occupy MovementThis is a paper by Antonio Negri on the Occupy Wall Street MovementSave to LibraryDownloadby antara ray chaudhury•Autonomist MarxismAin't no makin' it in the age of austerity: The making and taking of educational lifeSave to LibraryDownloadby Gregory Bourassa•  21  Critical Theory, Sociology of Education, Sociology of Work, Youth StudiesDai laboratori alle masse. Pratiche artistiche e comunicazione nel movimento del '77 (Ombre Corte, Verona 2014)Il libro analizza le pratiche comunicative e artistiche del movimento italiano del ’77. I corrispondenti fatti letterari (riviste, volantini, libri), figurativi (fumetti, fotografie, locandine, dipinti murali) radiofonici e performativi... moreIl libro analizza le pratiche comunicative e artistiche del movimento italiano del ’77. I corrispondenti fatti letterari (riviste, volantini, libri), figurativi (fumetti, fotografie, locandine, dipinti murali) radiofonici e performativi (le azioni dei cosiddetti “indiani metropolitani”) vengono interpretati alla luce di un approccio metodologico in linea con le esperienze dei Cultural Studies internazionali ma con un’impronta italiana che attinge alla tradizione gramsciana e si nutre di alcune recenti elaborazioni del pensiero post-operaista, in particolare di ciò che fonda la nozione di capitalismo cognitivo. È sullo sfondo di queste acquisizioni teoretiche e metodologiche che qui si cercano di rileggere le pratiche culturali del movimento e le loro relazioni con alcuni paradigmi artistici e filosofici del Novecento, ma anche con la diffusone sociale dei mezzi di comunicazione e di produzione intellettuale. La pratica teorica del movimento italiano, già analizzata negli anni della sua affermazione da alcuni studiosi (Eco, Calvesi), è dunque interpretata come un rovesciamento del tradizionale rapporto egemonico che definisce il primato dell’arte e in generale dei “laboratori” intellettuali sulla cultura quotidiana, come una tendenza antagonistica emersa, in piena crisi della società fordista, nella generalizzazione-politicizzazione dell’arte e in forme di “autorappresentazione” successivamente regolate dai dispositivi post-industriali di sussunzione biopolitica del lavoro e del sapere sociale. L’analisi delle pratiche antagoniste del tempo “presente”, verso cui è orientata questa ricerca, intende mostrare gli sviluppi e gli “esiti” delle esperienze intellettuali, politiche e culturali degli anni Settanta e definire – questa la sfida – il loro possibile incontro, o una benjaminiana “intesa segreta”, con l’oggi.Save to LibraryDownloadby Danilo Mariscalco•  26  Cultural Studies, Social Movements, Media Studies, Media and Cultural StudiesTheorizing Regimes of Surveillance/ExploitationThe concept of biopolitical labour, introduced by Hardt and Negri in the Empire trilogy, seems to be the most promising for contemporary anticapitalist struggles, as it brings to light the fact that life as such, in its various... moreThe concept of biopolitical labour, introduced by Hardt and Negri in the Empire trilogy, seems to be the most promising for contemporary anticapitalist struggles, as it brings to light the fact that life as such, in its various manifestations, is a productive force. However, it is precisely this all-encompassing character and universality that is the source of the controversies it raises and of its potential limitations. One of the most important and controversial aspects of Hardt and Negri's stance in Empire is the thesis of the unification of the social factory, caused by the passage from Fordism to post-Fordism. The hegemony of immaterial/biopolitical labour – a form of labour that has as its basis cooperation and communication – constitutes the autonomy of the production process and the unity of the working class or multitude that provide the objective conditions for communism (Hardt and Negri, 2000: 31-34; Hardt and Negri, 2004: 107-115). The power of living labour is the consequence of its status as the most advanced form of production that renders obsolete other forms, deprived of its political potential. This nexus of the notions of hegemony, degrees of advancement of the forms of labour and productivity of life itself is so tightly intertwined that it's not possible to use one of the concepts separately. And this is precisely what should be achieved, because not all parts of this nexus are equally useful.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joanna Bednarek•  7  Marxism, Operaismo, Autonomist Marxism, Antonio Negri and Michael HardtMaterialism and Temporality. On Antonio Negri’s “constitutive” ontologyIn this essay, I shall not consider the work of Antonio Negri as a whole, but rather in some of its recent manifestations, from Macchina tempo and the work on Spinoza in the early nineteen-eighties to the recent work on pouvoir... moreIn this essay, I shall not consider the work of Antonio Negri as a whole, but rather in some of its recent manifestations, from Macchina tempo and the work on Spinoza in the early nineteen-eighties to the recent work on pouvoir constituant, on Empire, and on a Lucretian strand of materialism, connoted by the expression Alma Venus, from the second line of De rerum natura. I shall presuppose the existence of something like a doctrine of materialism and a theory of temporality in this body of work, and thereby ignore certain questions of genre which might compel the reader to distinguish between a properly political project and a philosophical one. As we shall see, however, it becomes impossible here to dissect the whole and surgically remove an inquiry into matter and time, brain and intellect, power and possibility, nature and ontology, without also having to consider the additional pair of praxis and action. By examining and assessing these conceptual “regions,” I will seek to determine what is new in Negri’s treatment of these old themes. This implies pin-pointing the moments at which his understanding departs from a more “canonical” understanding of these themes ... or from my own. Since this is not an exercise in comparative textual analysis, I will not speak of Negri as a “reader” of Lucretius, Spinoza, Marx or Deleuze, but rather seek to emphasize some of the shared features in this heretical tradition, in order to arrive, as it were, at its essential Denkform or what in French is called a portrait robot, the hypothetical portrait of a suspect, which can then be evaluated.Save to LibraryDownloadby Charles Wolfe•  4  Materialism, Antonio Negri, Historical Materialism, Autonomist Marxismدفاعیات شکرالله پاک‌نژاد: پنجاه سال بعد (Paknejad's trial: 50 years later!)در دهه‌ی پنجاه، دفاعیات پاک‌نژاد در ایران و همچنین در سطح جهانی شهرتی بی‌مانند یافت. اهمیت این دفاعیات را دست‌کم در پنج عنصر می‌توان جستجو کرد: نخست آن‌که دفاعیات پاک‌نژاد، اولین مدافعات یک زندانی سیاسی ایرانی بود که به زبان‌های گوناگون... moreدر دهه‌ی پنجاه، دفاعیات پاک‌نژاد در ایران و همچنین در سطح جهانی شهرتی بی‌مانند یافت. اهمیت این دفاعیات را دست‌کم در پنج عنصر می‌توان جستجو کرد: نخست آن‌که دفاعیات پاک‌نژاد، اولین مدافعات یک زندانی سیاسی ایرانی بود که به زبان‌های گوناگون ترجمه شده و از این طریق به‌طور بی‌سابقه‌ای در سطح بین‌المللی شناخته شد. دوم، این دفاعیات به‌نحوی آشکار و صریح نگرش سیاسی-اجتماعیِ نسل جدیدی از مبارزان چپ‌گرای ایرانی را بازتاب می‌داد و شاید بتوان این متن را در جایگاه مانیفست چپِ نو و مستقل ایرانی ارزیابی کرد. چنان‌که پاک‌نژاد در این دفاعیات بیان می‌دارد، چپ مستقل ایران نه وابسته به حزب توده و نه متأثر از خطوط سیاسی چین و شوروی بود (فغفوری آذر و نصیری، ۱۳۹۹، ۱۱۸-۱۱۹). سوم آن‌که پاک‌نژاد خود یک حقوق‌دان ژرف‌اندیش بود و با ارائه‌ی دفاعیاتی مبتنی بر مبانی حقوق اساسی، توانست بنیان‌های حقوقی و سیاسی نظام پادشاهی و محکمه‌ای که در برابر آن ایستاده بود را به چالش ‌کشد. چهارم، رویکرد پاک‌نژاد نسبت به قانونِ حاکم و مفهوم حق برای مبارزانِ پس از او سرمشق‌ساز بود. باید در نظر داشت که اغلب دفاعیاتی که توسط مبارزان پیش از پاک‌نژاد در برابر محاکم نظام پهلوی صورت می‌گرفت، سبک و سیاق و محتوای بسیار متفاوتی داشت. بی‌گمان، پاک‌نژاد با ارائه‌ی دفاعیاتی مبتنی بر مبانی حقوقی از یک‌سو و اندیشه و آرمان‌های آزادی‌خواهانه و برابری‌طلبانه از سوی دیگر، روش و نگرشی را برای کنش‌ورزی سیاسی ابداع کرد که مبارزان با بهر‌ه‌گیری از آن بتوانند در عین دفاع از خود و حقوق‌شان، هم‌زمان بنیان‌های حقوقی‌-سیاسی یک نظام استبدادی را به چالش بکشند. پژواک این نگرش را می‌توان در دفاعیات پر‌آوازه‌ای مانند دفاعیات مهدی رضایی (۱۳۵۱)، خسرو گلسرخی (۱۳۵۲) و کرامت‌الله دانشیان (۱۳۵۲) به‌روشنی شنید و احساس کرد. و سرانجام پنجم آنکه تأثیر و اهمیت اجتماعیِ دفاعیات پاک‌نژاد به اندازه‌ای بود که بسیاری از جوانان و دانشجویانی که به پخش و انتشار آن پرداختنه بودند، توسط ساواک دستگیر و زندانی شدند. پرونده‌ی محاکمه‌ی گروه فلسطین و دفاعیات پاک‌نژاد موج جدید و گسترده‌ای از اعتراضات علیه سیاست‌های سرکوب‌گرایانه‌ی نظام پهلوی و وضعیت زندانیان سیاسی ایجاد کرد (آرش [دفترهای آزادی]، ۱۳۶۳، ۳۲). به علت فشارهای داخلی و بین‌المللی که به دنبال این موج ایجاد شده بود، دستگاه قضایی در نهایت مجبور به کمی عقب‌نشینی شد و حکم پاک‌نژاد را که گمان می‌رفت اعدام باشد، با یک درجه تخفیف، به حبس ابد همراه با تبعید و اعمال شاقه کاهش داد. در همین زمینه، روزنامه‌ی اطلاعات درباره‌ی رأی دادگاه نظامی در خصوص اتهامات متهم ردیف چهارم با استناد به ‌قانون «مجازات مقدمین بر علیه امنیت و استقلال مملکت» (۱۳۱۰) چنین گزارش کرد:[3] «شکرالله پاک‌نژاد چون اقدام علیه امنیت داخلی مملکت نموده بود و جرم وی از نظر دادگاه محرز گردیده است محکوم به حبس ابد است» (اطلاعات، ۱۰/۱۰/۱۳۴۹، ۴).Save to LibraryDownloadby Shahin Nasiri•  17  Political Philosophy, Political Theory, Marxism, Critical Legal TheorySocial Form, Critique and Human DignitySave to LibraryDownloadby Werner Bonefeld•  43  Critical Theory, Sociology, Economic Sociology, Political SociologyCapitalised Education: An immanent materialist account of Kate MiddletonIn his book, Capitalised Education: An Immanent Materialist Account of Kate Middleton, David R. Cole thoughtfully and thoroughly engages in an analysis that extends beyond the modern era to take into account a multiplicity of events and... moreIn his book, Capitalised Education: An Immanent Materialist Account of Kate Middleton, David R. Cole thoughtfully and thoroughly engages in an analysis that extends beyond the modern era to take into account a multiplicity of events and forces, which in their encounters produce social and cultural phenomena. Cole’s work is explicitly political as he engages in applied philosophy to elaborate upon the flows of capitalism and the emergence of Kate Middleton as a media object. The book, in its entirety, both is and is not about Kate Middleton. Through detailed and beautiful storytelling, Cole explores various historical plateaus (e.g., the death of Princess Diana, and monarchies of King George VI, Henry II and Lady Eleanor, the rise of industrialism, attitudes towards and about teaching) and describes the ways in which those plateaus are still at work, in some cases almost one thousand years later, to construct a capitalised education. Elaborating on the notion of capitalised education, Cole describes his project as a consideration of “the ways in which the factors analysed and revealed...come together and produce palpable social and cultural effects through Kate Middleton as media object” (p. 2). In his elaborations, Cole develops an immanent materialist analysis that is informed by the work of Gilles Deleuze and Felix Guattari’s notions of assemblage, the rhizome, desire, and the Body without Organs, to name a few, though Cole does not get bogged down in explaining the theory itself. Rather, Cole embodies a Deleuzoguattarian ontology as he seeks to move beyond origins and causation and instead focuses on the at times more unfamiliar, but ever-proliferating intensities that impact the ways in which we emerge with that which we encounter, at times unconsciously. Students of philosophy, history, and education, and researchers who are interested in Deleuzoguattarian-influenced work will find Cole’s work both compelling and thoroughly enjoyable. ~ anonymous, Amazon siteThe pomp and ceremony of a royal wedding might seem a strange anachronism in a world of global finance and cyber-capitalism. Yet, as David Cole demonstrates, the two are folded intricately into each other. Through an immanent materialist analysis that brings together key recent and historical moments or ‘plateaus’ in the emergence of capitalism, liberalism, and constitutional monarchy, and culminating in Kate Middleton’s 2011 marriage to Prince William, Cole’s wide ranging and provocative work reveals the complex and subtle ways in which capitalism’s decoding and deterritorialization go hand-in-hand with the continuation of social privileges and hierarchies. Along the way he speaks to the major political movements of the last century (liberalism, communism, fascism, empire, and decolonization), the globalization of media, the 2008 financial crisis, and more. Linking these to both established and emerging theories of radical political action, Cole traces the moments of rupture that might allow another politics to come to the fore. ~ Nathan Widder, Royal Holloway, University of LondonKate Middleton is an international celebrity, as well as a crucial figure in the biological, economic, and cultural reproduction of the British class system. In this book, David R. Cole offers us a multifaceted analysis of Middleton as "media object." Touching on topics as diverse as courtly love in medieval Europe and derivatives markets in contemporary finance, Capitalised Education traces a web of far-flung relationships that fatally lead us back to the absurdities of our collective fascination with the British Royal Family. ~ Steven Shaviro, Wayne State UniversityCole has produced a masterful and critical evaluation of how the British Monarchy continues to assert and grow its influence in the 21st century. He significantly contributes to an almost muted discourse which critically explores how this influence is achieved and what is risked and gained in its attainment. The reader can’t but be left with a desire to question whether we should be comfortable with the process and effects this has on our behaviour, development and socialisation. ~ Roberto H. Parada, University of Western SydneySave to LibraryDownloadby David R  Cole•  51  Semiotics, Teaching and Learning, Education, MarxismMarx e il 18 brumaio di Luigi NapoleoneSave to LibraryDownloadby Vittorio Morfino•  8  Marxism, Post-Marxism, Philosophy of Karl Marx, Marxist theoryNeoliberalism and the Right to be Lazy Inactivity as Resistance in Lazzarato and AgambenNeoliberalism has installed an unending competitive struggle in the economy. Within this context activists have pushed for a reappraisal of laziness and inactivity as forms of resistance. This idea has been picked up by Maurizio Lazzarato... moreNeoliberalism has installed an unending competitive struggle in the economy. Within this context activists have pushed for a reappraisal of laziness and inactivity as forms of resistance. This idea has been picked up by Maurizio Lazzarato and Giorgio Agamben, but in different ways. This essay first explains the former’s appraisal of laziness as a release of potentialities unrealizable under financial capitalism. However, Lazzarato’s appraisal of laziness resembles neoliberal theories of innovation because it shares with neoliberalism the conceptual persona of a subject whose potentialities exceed the current status quo. Potentiality is thus not an unambiguous antagonist of capitalism, as Lazzarato suggests. In order to adequately oppose neoliberalism, Lazzarato should question the role of potentiality in capitalism. Agamben has undertaken such a project. The second part of the essay consequently argues that Agamben’s philosophy of inactivity as impotentiality is able to circumvent neoliberalism and the society of the spectacle.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tim Christiaens•  6  Critical Theory, Marxism, Resistance (Social), Giorgio AgambenMaking Threats: Credible Strike Threats in the US, 2012 to 2016chapter 4 of my second bookSave to LibraryDownloadby Robert Ovetz, Ph.D.•  15  Marxism, Higher Education, Anarchism, Trade unionismDigital Rebellion: The Birth of the Cyber LeftDigital Rebellion examines the impact of new media and communication technologies on the spatial, strategic, and organizational fabric of social movements. Todd Wolfson reveals how aspects of the mid-1990s Zapatistas... moreDigital Rebellion examines the impact of new media and communication technologies on the spatial, strategic, and organizational fabric of social movements.   Todd Wolfson reveals how aspects of the mid-1990s Zapatistas movement--network organizational structure, participatory democratic governance, and the use of communication tools as a binding agent--became essential parts of Indymedia and other Cyber Left organizations. From there he uses oral interviews and other rich ethnographic data to chart the media-based think tanks and experiments that continued the Cyber Left's evolution through the Independent Media Center's birth around the 1999 WTO protests in Seattle.  Melding virtual and traditional ethnographic practice to explore the Cyber Left's cultural logic, Wolfson maps the social, spatial and communicative structure of the Indymedia network and details its operations on the local, national and global level. He looks at the participatory democracy that governs global social movements and the ways democracy and decentralization have come into tension, and how "the switchboard of struggle" conducts stories from the hyper-local and disperses them worldwide. As he shows, understanding the intersection of Indymedia and the Global Social Justice Movement illuminates their foundational role in the Occupy struggle and other emergent movements that have re-energized radical politics.  "Combining the passion of an activist and the reasoned arguments of a scholar, Wolfson wonderfully details the emergence of the Cyber Left. In Digital Rebellion he not only celebrates its political potential but also, and more importantly, provides a lucid critique of the forms it has taken thus far."--Michael Hardt, co-author of Declaration and Empire   "Makes an original contribution through the depth of the empirical case studies of Cyber Left organization. . . . I cannot think of another book that puts so much of the story of the U.S. left's experiments with the creation of an 'electronic fabric of struggle' within a single volume. . . . The author's knowledge, thoughtfulness, and political passion is evident." --Nick Dyer-Witheford, author of Games of Empire: Global Capitalism and Video GamesSave to LibraryDownloadby Todd Wolfson•  55  Critical Theory, History, Sociology, Social MovementsAutomation and Autonomy: Labour, Capital and Machines in the Artificial Intelligence Industry (2021)This book argues that Marxist theory is essential for understanding the contemporary industrialization of the form of artificial intelligence (AI) called machine learning. It includes a political economic history of AI, tracking how it... moreThis book argues that Marxist theory is essential for understanding the contemporary industrialization of the form of artificial intelligence (AI) called machine learning. It includes a political economic history of AI, tracking how it went from a fringe research interest for a handful of scientists in the 1950s to a centerpiece of cybernetic capital fifty years later. It also includes a political economic study of the scale, scope and dynamics of the contemporary AI industry as well as a labour process analysis of commercial machine learning software production, based on interviews with workers and management in AI companies around the world, ranging from tiny startups to giant technology firms. On the basis of this study, Steinhoff develops a Marxist analysis to argue that the popular theory of immaterial labour, which holds that information technologies increase the autonomy of workers from capital, tending towards a post-capitalist economy, does not adequately describe the situation of high-tech digital labour today. In the AI industry, digital labour remains firmly under the control of capital. Steinhoff argues that theories discerning therein an emergent autonomy of labour are in fact witnessing labour’s increasing automation.Save to LibraryDownloadby James Steinhoff•  13  Critical Theory, Industrial And Labor Relations, Artificial Intelligence, Political EconomyCapitalism unwrapped (a review of David Coates, Capitalism: the basics [2016]) [2019]Save to LibraryDownloadby Emanuele Leonardi•  7  Governmentality, Capitalism, Neoliberalism, Varieties of CapitalismGarland, C. (2017) 'Against “that which is”: Frankfurt School-infused Critical Theory grounded in autonomist Marxism/autonomist Marxism grounded in Frankfurt School-infused Critical Theory', ‘What’ and ‘How’ of Critique: Styles, Issues and Confrontations in Critical Social Theory and ResearchPanel 1 - Critique of history and history of critique with Christian Garland, Harry Cross & Matt Bolton British Sociological Association (BSA), Durham University, 20th September 2017Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian Garland•  337  Critical Theory, Sociology, Economic Sociology, Political SociologyPolitical Theory of the MaskSave to LibraryDownloadby Thomas Nail•  165  Creative Writing, Critical Theory, History, Cultural HistoryTrabalho, essência humana e alienação: análise do livro "Marxismo e Antropologia" de György Markus (Work, human essence and alienation: analysis of the book "Marxism and Anthropology" by György Markus)Save to LibraryDownloadby Henrique  Wellen•  116  Political Economy, Social Work, Sociology of Work, MarxismMarx After MarxismSave to LibraryDownloadby Alviandro Aliem•  6  Marxism, Post-Marxism, Marxist theory, Karl MarxA Social History of American Social Psychology up to the second world war (1975) 2011Howard Gruber, a founder member of Psychologists for Social Action, reviewed the dissertation. His review, dated May 7, 1978, as Parkovnick (2015) points out, "... is worth quoting in full, as it captures the very essence of the... moreHoward Gruber, a founder member of Psychologists for Social Action, reviewed the dissertation. His review, dated May 7, 1978, as Parkovnick (2015) points out, "... is worth quoting in full, as it captures the very essence of the dissertation":  “This is an effective dissertation and could become an important book. I began reading it very favorably disposed to it. Then I got more and more riled up, made many hostile notes. By the end I found myself almost won over, certainly illuminated. Francks [Gruber’s spelling] has a style that gets under your skin and stays there. This is a good thing and should not get lost in the process of expansion, rewriting, and editing. It will take some work to make it a persuasive book to a less sympathetic reader, and to reduce its present excessive vulnerability to academic criticism. Its very sweep opens many avenues to criticism, crit. of a kind that detracts the reader and potential reader from the central ideas. But all this can be worked out. As an academic type, I often find myself cringing, wanting things toned down. But by the time I finished, I felt that the direction of the change should be to strengthen the tone of the book, to make its central, disturbing message more apparent, bring it more up front.”  Gruber, H. (1978). Review of A history of American social psychology up to the Second World War by Peter Francks [Gruber’s spelling] for Ablex Publishing Corporation, May 7.  Readers should also look at: https://www.academia.edu/60033912/The_Psychology_of_Participation_Revisited_1984_2021Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Emanuel Franks•  174  Critical Theory, Organizational Behavior, Cultural History, PsychologyUses of a Whirlwind: Movements and Contemporary Radical Currents in the United StatesSave to LibraryDownloadby Robert Ovetz, Ph.D.•  12  Social Movements, Globalization, Political Theory, Social MovementWhen Hephaestus Fell to Earth: Harry Braverman and the New Division of Academic LaborBraverman's analysis of the changing division of labor is crucial for understanding the impact of the neoliberal assault on higher education on academic labor. Much like Taylorism a century ago, adjunctification of the faculty, online... moreBraverman's analysis of the changing division of labor is crucial for understanding the impact of the neoliberal assault on higher education on academic labor. Much like Taylorism a century ago, adjunctification of the faculty, online education, and data driven planning are rationalizing academic labor. Teaching is being " unbundled " and its components parts automated, outsourced, and transferred to a growing middle level administration. As a result, faculty are becoming " just-in-time, " deskilled, disempowered, contingent labor. This newly emerging new division of labor is fundamentally transforming higher education. No longer merely subject to commercialization, academic labor is being reorganized to resemble the interchangeable contingent work that is ubiquitous throughout the labor market. To resist these developments it is necessary for faculty to study the new division of academic labor in order to devise new organizing tactics and strategies, such as the systemwide local and Metro organizing models.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Ovetz, Ph.D.•  45  Community Colleges, Marxism, Higher Education, Faculty DevelopmentThe New Deal: A Modern HistoryA book review of Michael A. Hiltzik's The New Deal: A Modern History, Free Press, 2011.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Ovetz, Ph.D.•  20  History, American History, Marxism, Welfare StateBusiness and Society: A Critical IntroductionCorporations dominate our societies. They employ us, sell to us, and influence how we think and who we vote for, while their economic interests dictate local, national, and global agendas. Written in clear and accessible terms, this... moreCorporations dominate our societies. They employ us, sell to us, and influence how we think and who we vote for, while their economic interests dictate local, national, and global agendas. Written in clear and accessible terms, this much-needed textbook provides critical perspectives on all aspects of the relationship between business and society: from an historical analysis of the spread of capitalism as the foundation of the 'corporate' revolution in the late nineteenth-century to the regulation, ethics, and exclusionary implications of business in contemporary society. Furthermore, it examines how corporate power and capitalism might be resisted, outlining a range of alternatives, from the social economy through to new forms of open access or commons ownership.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kean Birch and +1Alberto Salazar•  179  Critical Theory, Business, Organizational Behavior, Business AdministrationAutonomía y poder: los movimientos autonómicos como ejercicio de poder alternativo. UNAM. 2012Este trabajo parte de un fenómeno cada vez más visible y de creciente relevancia en la vida política y social de México y América Latina: la emergencia y multiplicación de los movimientos autonómicos, los cuales trascienden los paradigmas... moreEste trabajo parte de un fenómeno cada vez más visible y de creciente relevancia en la vida política y social de México y América Latina: la emergencia y multiplicación de los movimientos autonómicos, los cuales trascienden los paradigmas tradicionales de la acción colectiva de los movimientos sociales, dejando atrás la lógica de la disputa por el poder, o de las demandas al Estado como única solución de necesidades, para pasar a la lógica de la búsqueda de soluciones autonómicas en un esquema de construcción y ejercicio alternativo de poder.  El estudio se basa en el análisis de tres movimientos autonómicos: 1) el proyecto indígena de comunicación comunitaria Radio Ñomndaa (la Palabra del Agua) en el municipio amuzgo de Xochistlahuaca, Guerrero, 2) el Sistema de Seguridad y Justicia Comunitaria (“Policía Comunitaria”) en la Montaña y Costa Chica de Guerrero, y 3) el Municipio Autónomo de San Juan Copala en la región triqui de Oaxaca.  El objetivo principal del trabajo es aportar elementos conceptuales para la interpretación de la autonomía en los movimientos sociales como una forma de poder alternativo. Se propone un esquema conceptual que permita trascender las lecturas de la autonomía como simple descentralización administrativa, y que pueda servir para analizar bajo la misma lente la miríada de movimientos autonómicos tan disímiles y diversos que existen en la realidad concreta de los movimientos populares antisistémicos.  Para ello, se entiende la autonomía como una expresión de “poder autonómico” atravesada por dos ejes complementarios: “autonomía positiva” (autoafirmación e independencia) y “autonomía negativa” (autorregulación y autodefensa), la cual aparece en una relación de conflicto con el “poder heteronómico” característico de las instituciones del estado moderno.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Octavio Sandoval Arenas•  5  Movimientos sociales, Autonomist Marxism, Autonomía, autonomismo y movimientos sociales latinoamericanos, Movimientos sociales. América LatinaFrom the Precariat to the Multitude""Politics is always about nomination. It is about naming a political subjectivity and organizing politically around that name.– Simon Critchley (2007, 103) This paper situates Guy Standing’s recent work on ‘the precariat’ within a... more""Politics is always about nomination. It is about naming a political subjectivity and organizing politically around that name.– Simon Critchley (2007, 103) This paper situates Guy Standing’s recent work on ‘the precariat’ within a broader body of literature exploring processes of ‘precarisation’, at work and across the social field. It sets out the differential distribution of ‘precarity’ (including on the basis of gender, geography, status and sector) resulting from transformations in labour and the political economy, the rollback of social democracy and of ‘industrial citizenship’ (where these existed), as well as from processes of globalisation. The paper argues that, like many other works, Standing’s book, The Precariat: The New Dangerous Class, de-couples its discussion of precarious, neoliberal labour and life from the explicitly utopian agenda of radical reform it ultimately proposes. Drawing on Kathi Weeks’ engagement with Ernst Bloch’s work, the paper suggest Standing’s utopianism remains abstract, detached from an analysis of the social forces, movements and struggles that might bring it into being. It makes use of Antonio Negri’s distinctive, heterodox interpretation of V.I. Lenin to provide a framework for theorising how concrete utopian projects of radical political transformation – which is to say, ‘realist’ or materialist ones – are extrapolated out of spontaneous struggles; the predominant ‘will’, ethics and structures of which are always largely determined by the social, political and economic context from which they emerge. It is shown how, on the basis of this approach, Negri (in his collaboration with Michael Hardt) has constructed the notion of ‘multitude’ as a potential model for political organisation today – apposite to the precarious reality described by Standing and others. They draw on Baruch Spinoza’s political philosophy – often counterposing it to that of Thomas Hobbes – to affirm the capacity for common political action and decision despite heterogeneity, and to ground political organisation in social conflict rather than contract. Finally, drawing on Alain Badiou’s distinction between ‘immediate’ and ‘historical uprisings’, the paper explores the degree to which a number of contemporary movements and struggles might have tentatively achieved what he calls ‘qualitative extension’ – establishing connections and a ground for common action across social spaces and strata – potentially setting in motion enduring projects of political organisation and constitution that resemble the multitude model.""Save to LibraryDownloadby Ben  Trott•  30  Marxism, Social Contract Theory, Hobbes, Post-MarxismMaoismSave to LibraryDownloadby Uday Chandra•  109  Critical Theory, History, Cultural History, Cultural StudiesBeyond the Fragment: The Postoperaist Reception of Marx's Fragment on Machines and its Relevance TodayThis paper critiques the purposes to which Marx’s Fragment on Machines is put in postoperaist thought. I suggest postoperaist readings wield influence on contemporary left thinking, via postcapitalism, accelerationism and ‘Fully Automated... moreThis paper critiques the purposes to which Marx’s Fragment on Machines is put in postoperaist thought. I suggest postoperaist readings wield influence on contemporary left thinking, via postcapitalism, accelerationism and ‘Fully Automated Luxury Communism’. Changes in labour lead proponents to posit a crisis of measurability and an incipient communism. I use the New Reading of Marx and Open Marxism to dispute this. Based on an analysis of value as a social form undergirded in antagonistic social relations, I argue the Fragment’s prognosis runs contrary to Marx’s critique of political economy when the latter is taken as a critical theory of society. This theoretical claim bears implications for contemporary left political praxis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Frederick Harry Pitts•  32  Critical Theory, Sociology, Political Economy, Sociology of WorkThe Structural-Anarchism Manifesto: (Chapter One) The Central-Operating-Code and The Commodity:Due to popular demand, I have uploaded the first published chapter of the structural-anarchism Manifesto. I have included the introductory chapter in hopes of encouraging readers to purchase the manifesto for themselves on Amazon, either... moreDue to popular demand, I have uploaded the first published chapter of the structural-anarchism Manifesto. I have included the introductory chapter in hopes of encouraging readers to purchase the manifesto for themselves on Amazon, either Amazon.ca or Amazon.com . https://www.amazon.com/Structural-Anarchism-Manifesto-Logic-Versus-Capitalism/dp/0978115139/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1537455950&sr=8-1&keywords=michel+luc+bellemareSave to LibraryDownloadby Michel Luc Bellemare Ph.d.•  17  Political Economy, Political Philosophy, Poststructuralism, AnarchismRethinking the health consequences of social class and social mobilityThe task of studying the impact of social class on physical and mental health involves, among other things, the use of a conceptual toolbox that defines what social class is, establishes how to measure it, and sets criteria that help... moreThe task of studying the impact of social class on physical and mental health involves, among other things, the use of a conceptual toolbox that defines what social class is, establishes how to measure it, and sets criteria that help distinguish it from closely related concepts. One field that has recently witnessed a wealth of theoretical and conceptual research on social class is psychology, but geographers' and sociologists' attitude of diffidence toward this " positivistic " discipline has prevented them from taking advantage of this body of scholarship. This paper aims to highlight some of the most important developments in the psychological study of social class and social mobility that speak to the long-standing concerns of health geographers and sociologists with how social position, perceptions, social comparisons, and class-based identities impact health and well-being.DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.socscimed.2017.11.037Save to LibraryDownloadby Dragos Simandan•  392  Critical Theory, Sociology, Cultural Studies, Medical SociologyAccess to work or liberation from work? Disabled people, autonomy, and post-work politicsin Canadian Journal of Disability Studies, vol. 4 issue 2: http://cjds.uwaterloo.ca/index.php/cjds/article/view/212 Waged work has been a central issue for the Disabled People’s Movement since its inception. For example, the influential... morein Canadian Journal of Disability Studies, vol. 4 issue 2: http://cjds.uwaterloo.ca/index.php/cjds/article/view/212Waged work has been a central issue for the Disabled People’s Movement since its inception. For example, the influential analysis of the pioneering Union of the Physically Impaired Against Segregation in the United Kingdom placed the exclusion of people with impairments from work as the origin of disablement, which is therefore inherent in modern capitalism. Thus it has been traditional in the Disabled People’s Movement in the United Kingdom to regard the removal of barriers to participation in the wage labour economy as a key strategy for overcoming disabled people’s social exclusion and oppression.However, some authors in the Disabled People’s Movement (e.g., Abberley, 1996; 2002; Taylor, 2004; Withers, 2012) have argued that waged work cannot be the route to liberation for all disabled people, pointing out the paradox of disabled people desiring to be included in the same economic system which is responsible for their exclusion in the first place, and whose values fundamentally privilege the ‘more able’. This issue is especially urgent in the present historical moment, when the ‘work ethic’ has been mobilised by neoliberals and neoconservatives in government and the mass media to justify the cutting of vital support systems for disabled people, who are being demonized as ‘workshy’, ‘scroungers’, etc.This paper will examine critiques of work and workerism from anarchist, autonomist, and feminist writers and identify theoretical currents that conceptualize disabled people’s liberation as requiring a much more fundamental rejection of the values of capitalism.KeywordsAnti-work; Autonomy; Basic Income; Capitalism; Disablement; Disabled People’s Movement; Gift economy; Post-Work; Wage labourSave to LibraryDownloadby Steve Graby•  9  Sociology of Work, Disability Studies, Anarchism, Disabled people movementResenha critica de Caliba e a Bruxa de Silvia FedericiEsta resenha crítica do livro ​Calibã e a Bruxa: mulheres, corpo e acumulação primitiva (2004) da filósofa italiana e ativista feminista, Silvia Federici, busca apontar as principais críticas a leitura desenvolvida por Marx do processo... moreEsta resenha crítica do livro ​Calibã e a Bruxa: mulheres, corpo e acumulação primitiva (2004) da filósofa italiana e ativista feminista, Silvia Federici, busca apontar as principais críticas a leitura desenvolvida por Marx do processo de acumulação primitiva de capital e de sua teoria do valor. Reunindo obras de diversas historiadoras feministas, segundo Federici, ​Calibã e a Bruxa é uma leitura da acumulação primitiva de capital sob a perspectiva dos​ ​ oprimidos,​ ​ sem​ ​ os​ ​ separar​ ​ do​ ​ setor​ ​ masculino​ ​ do​ ​ proletariado.Save to LibraryDownloadby Raquel Reis Fernandes•  3  Marxism, Gender Equality, Autonomist MarxismDancing on Common Ground: Exploring the Sacred at Burning ManWhere on Earth can you find tens of thousands of people gathering together in a gigantic festival intended to provide a huge variety of forms of entertainment? Where can you find people costumed, covered in glitter, or in feathers, riding... moreWhere on Earth can you find tens of thousands of people gathering together in a gigantic festival intended to provide a huge variety of forms of entertainment? Where can you find people costumed, covered in glitter, or in feathers, riding unicycles, wearing funny-hats, body paint ofevery color, or nothing at all? Where can you find hundreds of art cars and extraordinary vehicles, from star-lit UFO taxicabs to mobile taxidermied horses, giant glowing lobsters, Viking ships, or enormous flame-belching dragons? Where can you find endless miles of participatory ‘theme camps’—with names like Astral Headwash, Lingerie Planet, Mad Cow Country Club, Technofartz Camp, Porn Star Lounge and the Temple of Atonement—where festival-goers artfully offer up to one another a bizarre concatenation of spiritual and carnal sustenance andsmart, regressive, pop-culture-inundated, ironic fun? Dozens of radio stations? An immense range of art, from massive sculptures made of books to digital kaleidoscopes? Where? You can find them about 120 miles east of the city of Reno, in the middle of the desert near the center of the state of Nevada, in the United States of America. For one week every year, you can find this combination of unparalleled weirdness and breathtaking inspiration at Burning Man, and at no place else on Earth.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert  Kozinets•  15  Religion, Anthropology, Dance Studies, Anthropology Of DanceDesigning Economic Cultures - Abstract and table of contents + link to thesis: http://bit.ly/1KhJGz0This practice-based research sets out to investigate and intervene in the tense relation between the production of socially as well as politically relevant design work and the socio-economic precariousness many designers experience.... moreThis practice-based research sets out to investigate and intervene in the tense relation between the production of socially as well as politically relevant design work and the socio-economic precariousness many designers experience. Starting from an engagement with the precarious working conditions of designers, their genealogy over the last 30+ years and the role precarisation plays in forming docile creative subjects, the research moves on to a wider critique of the political economy and of its precarising value practices. Based on this analysis, it then considers the strategic use that can be made of concepts around the commons in order to undo procedures of precarisation. The trajectory of this process of exploration is shaped through a series of practical experiments constructed around the inhabitation of support structures that allowed for a collective engagement with the issues and strategies researched. These inhabitations took as their starting point the resources my own design practice Brave New Alps was offered throughout this research. Thus, they took the form of two collectivised residencies, one of three months in Warsaw (My castle is your castle) and a second of two months in Milan (Cantiere per pratiche non-affermative), out of which a design collective emerged that still works together. The experiences from living through these support structures are the decisive elements that direct the engagement with theory in order to find elements helpful in overcoming blockages and loops in practice. The core elements that emerged as helpful in moving this research forward were characterised by the practical as well as theoretical engagement with how designers are trained to accept and reproduce the conditions that precarise them, with how this training inserts itself in the wider logic of a capitalist economy and, finally, with how noncapitalist values can serve as points of orientation for constructing de-precarising design practices. Moving along these key points, the aim of this research is to provide a series of conceptual as well as practical tools for designers that can be mobilised in the creation of economic cultures that defy precarisation within and beyond the field of the profession. However, the research is not primarily concerned with stabilising precarious design practices as they are, it is rather concerned with creating the conditions in which it is possible for designers to imagine and actuate what they could become if not pressured by precariousness to conform to the needs of the market. OTHER NOTES PhD funded through a Design Fellowship at Goldsmiths, University of London, 2011-2013.  First supervisor: Dr. Jennifer GabrysSecond supervisor: Prof. Bill Gaver External examiner: Prof. Doina Petrescu (School of Architecture, University of Sheffield)Internal examiner: Prof. Matthew Fuller (Centre for Cultural Studies, Goldsmiths)""Save to LibraryDownloadby Bianca Elzenbaumer & Fabio Franz/Brave New Alps•  18  Design, Feminist Theory, Action Research, Design education"Surrealism, Dada and the Refusal of Work: Autonomy, Activism and Social Participation in the Radical Avant-Garde," The Oxford Art Journal, 34:1, 2011, pp.79-96.This article aims to explore the notion of activist-art, identifying it as a distinct tendency in Modern art through a re-examination of historical and theoretical approaches to the radical avant-garde, drawing on autonomist Marxist and... moreThis article aims to explore the notion of activist-art, identifying it as a distinct tendency in Modern art through a re-examination of historical and theoretical approaches to the radical avant-garde, drawing on autonomist Marxist and materialist post-structural perspectives. First, through a critique of Peter Bürger's Theory of the Avant-Garde, I attempt to place the use of the idea of ‘autonomy’ by the avant-garde in its critical historical context not only in the negative sense of separation, but in the positive sense of freedom from restraint. I argue that for the avant-garde this took the particular form of a thematic engagement with the refusal of work. Secondly, I examine one particular form of this refusal: the engagement with social movements amongst Dadaists in Berlin. I set out a theoretical frame of ‘affective composition', in order to place avant-garde artistic production in relation to the art of social movements, whose production operates outside the institutions of art. I argue that not only is the avant-garde at crucial points influenced by the art of social movements, but that the Dadaists in Berlin attempt to imagine new forms of ‘activist-art’ which synthesise avant-garde and social movement performance and object-art in disobedient performances and performative disobedient objects.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gavin Grindon•  24  Critical Theory, Social Movements, Art History, MarxismRevolutionary WritingSave to LibraryDownloadby Werner Bonefeld•  10  Marxism, Capitalism, Antonio Negri, Open Marxism33 Lessons on Capital - IntroductionThis introduction to my forthcoming book, 33 Lessons on Capital, explains its origins – in my online "study guide" to Volume I – and its substance – 33 summaries and commentaries on the 33 chapters of Volume I. Each of those commentaries... moreThis introduction to my forthcoming book, 33 Lessons on Capital, explains its origins – in my online "study guide" to Volume I – and its substance – 33 summaries and commentaries on the 33 chapters of Volume I.  Each of those commentaries provides explanations of key points, of their continuing relevance 150 years after they were published, critiques of his analysis and extensions of the analysis to sectors of the working class rarely touched by Marx, e.g., peasants, housewives, the indigenous and students. Originally composed for students in the US they also contain a variety of illustrative material drawn from American history to complement that usually chosen by Marx from British or European experiences.Save to LibraryDownloadby Harry Cleaver•  4  Marxism, Marxist theory, Karl Marx, Autonomist MarxismNextLast »Related TopicsMarxismFollowFollowingAntonio NegriFollowFollowingCritical TheoryFollowFollowingSocial MovementsFollowFollowingMarxist theoryFollowFollowingAffect Studies and Affective LabourFollowFollowingNeoliberalismFollowFollowingBiopoliticsFollowFollowingKarl MarxFollowFollowingAnarchismFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023