Embassy of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago - National Songs
17 captures
28 Sep 2013 - 21 Aug 2022
Aug
SEP
Feb
28
2012
2013
2014
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20130928191138/http://www.ttembassy.org/?page=national-songs
links
forms
contact us
Home
About Trinidad & Tobago
The Embassy
The Ambassador
About the Embassy
Sections
Embassy Holidays
The OAS
Immigration
About Us
Applying for the Machine Readable Passport
Forms
Frequently Asked Questions
Death Overseas
Invest in T&T
Photo Gallery
Student Corner
National Symbols
National Songs
National Pledge
Embassy of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago 1708 Massachusetts Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20036
Tel: 202-467-6490 Fax: 202-785-3130
Embassy Hours Monday - Friday 9:00am - 5:00pm
Immigration Office Monday - Wednesday, Friday 10:00am - 2:30pmPassports may be collected from Monday - Friday, 10am-4pm.
 
National Songs
National Symbols
National Songs
National Pledge
The National Anthem of Trinidad and Tobago 
Forged from the love of liberty, In the fires of hope and prayer, With boundless faith in our Destiny, We solemnly declare, Side by side we stand, Islands of the blue Caribbean Sea, This our Native Land, We pledge our lives to Thee, Here every creed and race find an equal place, And may God bless our Nation, Here every creed and race find an equal place, And may God bless our Nation.
Mr. Patrick S. Castagne composed the words and music of the National Anthem in 1962.
The words of the National Anthem reflect the nature and the strength of the people of Trinidad and Tobago, our courage as one nation working towards living in unity despite our diversity.
 
The National Song
God Bless Our Nation
God bless our nation  Of many varied races May we possess that common love  That binds and makes us One. Let it be known around the World That we can boast of Unity And take a pride in Our Liberty.  God bless our isles of tropic beauty rare Of flaming Poinciana And shady immortelle The warm and sparkling waters That beat upon our shores Beat out a tune that seem to tell We take a pride in Our Liberty.  God bless our leaders Give them grace to guide Bestow on them thy judgement wise To rule our land aright To keep the flag of freedom high that we may sing most lustily We take a pride in Our Liberty.
About Trinidad & Tobago
The Embassy  The AmbassadorAbout the Embassy Sections  Embassy Holidays
Permanent Mission to The OAS
Immigration Applying for the Machine Readable Passport Forms Frequently Asked Questions 
Invest in T&T
Student Corner  National Symbol National Songs
© Copyright 2010-2013 Embassy of the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago and Globescope Inc.