Haile Selassie - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Name
2Biography
Toggle Biography subsection
2.1Early life
2.2Governorship
2.3Regency
2.3.1Travel abroad
2.4King and emperor
2.5Conflict with Italy
2.5.1Mobilization
2.5.2Progress of the war
2.5.3Exile debate
2.5.4Collective security and the League of Nations, 1936
2.5.5Exile
2.61940s and 1950s
2.6.11958 famine of Tigray
2.71960s
2.81970s
2.8.1Wollo famine
2.8.2Revolution
2.8.3Imprisonment
2.8.4Death and interment
3Descendants
4Rastafari messiah
Toggle Rastafari messiah subsection
4.1Haile Selassie's position
5Titles and styles
Toggle Titles and styles subsection
5.1National orders
6Military ranks
7In popular culture
8See also
9Notes
10References
Toggle References subsection
10.1Citations
10.2Sources
11Further reading
12External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Haile Selassie
96 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛÆngliscالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБеларускаяБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFøroysktFrançaisGaeilgeGalego한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaKabɩyɛქართულიҚазақшаKernowekKiswahiliLadinoLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyमराठीمصرىBahasa MelayuМонголNederlands日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPatoisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийScotsසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยThuɔŋjäŋTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语Yorùbá粵語Žemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikiquoteWikisource
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Haile Selassie I)
Emperor of Ethiopia from 1930 to 1975
"Ras Tafari" redirects here. For the religion, see Rastafari. Not to be confused with Haile Gebrselassie or Haile Selassie Gugsa.
Haile Selassie I  ቀዳማዊ ኀይለ ሥላሴNegusa NagastHaile Selassie in dress uniform, 1970Emperor of EthiopiaReign2 April 1930 – 2 May 1936[nb 1]20 January 1941 – 12 September 1974Coronation2 November 1930PredecessorZewdituSuccessorAmha SelassiePrime Minister
List of prime ministers
Himself
Wolde Tzaddick
                        Makonnen Endelkachew
Abebe Aregai
Imru Haile Selassie
Aklilu Habte-Wold
Endelkachew Makonnen
Mikael Imru
Regent Plenipotentiary of EthiopiaReign27 September 1916 – 2 April 1930PredecessorTessema NadewMonarchZewdituSuccessorKirubel AbrahamBornTäfäri Mäkonnän(1892-07-23)23 July 1892Ejersa Goro, Hararghe, Ethiopian EmpireDied27 August 1975(1975-08-27) (aged 83)National Palace, Addis Ababa, EthiopiaBurial5 November 2000Holy Trinity Cathedral, Addis Ababa, EthiopiaSpouseMenen AsfawIssuePrincess RomaneworkPrincess TenagneworkCrown Prince Asfaw WossenPrincess ZenebeworkPrincess TsehaiPrince MakonnenPrince Sahle SelassieRegnal name(native) Haile Selassie I (ቀዳማዊ ኀይለ ሥላሴ, qädamawi häylä səllasé);(English) "Power of the Trinity"DynastyHouse of Solomon (Shewan branch)FatherMakonnen Wolde MikaelMotherYeshimebet AliReligionEthiopian Orthodox TewahedoSignature1st and 5th Chairperson of the Organisation of African UnityIn office25 May 1963 – 17 July 1964Succeeded byGamal Abdel NasserIn office5 November 1966 – 11 September 1967Preceded byJoseph Arthur AnkrahSucceeded byJoseph-Désiré Mobutu
Imperial standard of Haile Selassie IObverseReverse
Haile Selassie I (Ge'ez: ቀዳማዊ ኀይለ ሥላሴ, romanized: Qädamawi Häylä Səllasé,[nb 2] Amharic pronunciation: [ˈhaɪlə sɨlˈlase] (listeni);[nb 3] born Täfäri Mäkonnän; 23 July 1892 – 27 August 1975)[4] was Emperor of Ethiopia from 1930 to 1974. He rose to power as Regent Plenipotentiary of Ethiopia (Enderase) for Empress Zewditu from 1916. Haile Selassie is widely considered a defining figure in modern Ethiopian history, and the key figure of Rastafari, a religious movement in Jamaica that emerged shortly after he became emperor in the 1930s.[5][6] He was a member of the Solomonic dynasty, which claims to trace lineage to Emperor Menelik I, believed to be the son of King Solomon and Makeda the Queen of Sheba.
Haile Selassie attempted to modernize the country through a series of political and social reforms, including the introduction of the 1931 constitution, its first written constitution, and the abolition of slavery. He led the failed efforts to defend Ethiopia during the Second Italo-Ethiopian War and spent most of the period of Italian occupation exiled in England. In 1940, he traveled to Sudan in order to assist in coordinating the anti-fascist struggle in Ethiopia, and returned to his home country in 1941 after the East African campaign. He dissolved the Federation of Ethiopia and Eritrea, which was established by the UN General Assembly in 1950, and annexed Eritrea into Ethiopia as one of its provinces, while fighting to prevent secession.[7]
Haile Selassie's internationalist views led to Ethiopia becoming a charter member of the United Nations.[8] In 1963, he presided over the formation of the Organisation of African Unity, the precursor of the African Union, and served as its first chairman. In 1974, he was overthrown in a military coup by a Marxist–Leninist junta, the Derg. Haile Selassie was assassinated on 27 August 1975.[9][10]
Among some members of the Rastafari movement, Haile Selassie is referred to as the returned messiah of the Bible, God incarnate. This distinction notwithstanding, he was a Christian and adhered to the tenets and liturgy of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.[11][12]
He has been criticized by some historians for his suppression of rebellions among the landed aristocracy (the mesafint), which consistently opposed his reforms; some critics have also criticized Ethiopia's failure to modernize rapidly enough.[13][14] During his rule the Harari people were persecuted and many left the Harari Region.[15] His regime was also criticized by human rights groups, such as Human Rights Watch, as autocratic and illiberal.[14][16] Although some sources state that late during his regime the Oromo language was banned from education, public speaking and use in administration[17][18][19] there was never an official law or government policy that criminalized any language.[20][21][22] The Haile Selassie government relocated numerous Amharas into southern Ethiopia where they served in government administration, courts, and church.[23][24][25] Following the death of Hachalu Hundessa in June 2020, the Statue of Haile Selassie in Cannizaro Park, London was destroyed by Oromo protesters, and his father's equestrian monument in Harar was removed.[26][27][28]
Name[edit]
Haile Selassie was known as a child as Lij Tafari Makonnen (Amharic: ልጅ ተፈሪ መኮንን; Lij Teferī Mekōnnin). Lij is translated as "child" and serves to indicate that a youth is of noble blood. His given name Tafari means "one who is respected or feared." Like most Ethiopians, his personal name "Tafari" is followed by that of his father Makonnen and that of his grandfather Woldemikael. His name Haile Selassie was given to him at his infant baptism and adopted again as part of his regnal name in 1930.
On 1 November 1905, at the age of 13, Tafari was appointed by his father as the Dejazmatch of Gara Mulatta (a region some twenty miles southwest of Harar).[29] The literal translation of Dejazmatch is "keeper of the door"; it is a title of nobility equivalent to a count.[30] On 27 September 1916, he was proclaimed Crown Prince and heir apparent to the throne (Alga Worrach),[31][32] and appointed Regent Plenipotentiary (Balemulu Silt'an Enderase).[31][33] On 11 February 1917, he was crowned Le'ul-Ras[34] and became known as Ras Tafari Makonnen listeni. Ras is translated as "head"[35][32] and is a rank of nobility equivalent to a duke,[32][36] though it is often rendered in translation as "prince." Originally the title Le'ul, which means "Your Highness," was only ever used as a form of address;[37] however, in 1917 the title Le'ul-Ras replaced the senior office of Ras Bitwoded and so became the equivalent of a royal duke.[38][39] In 1928, Empress Zewditu planned on granting him the throne of Shewa; however, at the last moment opposition from certain provincial rulers caused a change and his title Negus or "King" was conferred without geographical qualification or definition.[40][41]
On 2 November 1930, after the death of Empress Zewditu, Tafari was crowned Negusa Nagast, literally King of Kings, rendered in English as "Emperor".[42] Upon his ascension, he took as his regnal name Haile Selassie I. Haile means in Ge'ez "Power of" and Selassie means trinity—therefore Haile Selassie roughly translates to "Power of the Trinity".[43] Haile Selassie's full title in office was "By the Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah, His Imperial Majesty Haile Selassie I, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Elect of God".[44][34][37][39][45][46][47][nb 4] This title reflects Ethiopian dynastic traditions, which hold that all monarchs must trace their lineage to Menelik I, who is described by the Kebra Nagast (a 14th-century CE national epic) as the son of the tenth-century BCE King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba.[49]
To Ethiopians, Haile Selassie has been known by many names, including Janhoy, Talaqu Meri, and Abba Tekel.[48] The Rastafari movement employs many of these appellations, also referring to him as Jah, Jah Jah, Jah Rastafari, and HIM (the abbreviation of "His Imperial Majesty").[48]
Biography[edit]
This article contains Ethiopic text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Ethiopic characters.
Main article: Chronology of Haile Selassie
Early life[edit]
Ras Makonnen Woldemikael and his son Lij Tafari Makonnen
Haile Selassie's royal line (through his father's mother) descended from the Shewan Amhara Solomonic King, Sahle Selassie.[50] He was born on 23 July 1892, in the village of Ejersa Goro, in the Hararghe province of Ethiopia. Haile Selassie's mother was paternally of Oromo descent and maternally of Gurage heritage, while his father was maternally of Amhara descent but his paternal lineage remains disputed.[51][52][53][54][55][56] Haile Selassie paternal grandfather belonged to a noble family from Shewa and was the governor of the districts of Menz and Doba, which are located in Semien Shewa.[57] His mother was Woizero ("Lady") Yeshimebet Ali Abba Jifar, daughter of a ruling chief from Were Ilu in Wollo province, Dejazmach Ali Abba Jifar.[58] Haile Selassie's father was Ras Makonnen Wolde Mikael, the grandson of King Sahle Selassie who was once the ruler of Shewa. He served as a general in the First Italo–Ethiopian War, playing a key role at the Battle of Adwa;[58] Haile Selassie was thus able to ascend to the imperial throne through his paternal grandmother, Woizero Tenagnework Sahle Selassie, who was an aunt of Emperor Menelik II and daughter of the Solomonic Amhara King of Shewa, Negus Sahle Selassie. As such, Haile Selassie claimed direct descent from Makeda, the Queen of Sheba, and King Solomon of ancient Israel.[59]
Ras Makonnen arranged for Tafari as well as his first cousin, Imru Haile Selassie, to receive instruction in Harar from Abba Samuel Wolde Kahin, an Ethiopian Capuchin friar, and from Dr. Vitalien, a surgeon from Guadeloupe. Tafari was named Dejazmach (literally "commander of the gate", roughly equivalent to "count")[60] at the age of 13, on 1 November 1905.[61][29] Shortly thereafter, his father Ras Makonnen died at Kulibi, in 1906.[62]
Governorship[edit]
Dejazmatch Tafari, as governor of Harar
Tafari assumed the titular governorship of Selale in 1906, a realm of marginal importance,[63] but one that enabled him to continue his studies.[61] In 1907, he was appointed governor over part of the province of Sidamo. It is alleged that during his late teens, Haile Selassie was married to Woizero Altayech, and that from this union, his daughter Princess Romanework was born.[64]
Following the death of his brother Yelma in 1907, the governorate of Harar was left vacant,[63] and its administration was left to Menelik's loyal general, Dejazmach Balcha Safo. Balcha Safo's administration of Harar was ineffective, and so during the last illness of Menelik II, and the brief reign of Empress Taitu Bitul, Tafari was made governor of Harar in 1910[62] or 1911.[65]
On 3 August 1911, he married Menen Asfaw of Ambassel, niece of the heir to the throne Lij Iyasu.
Regency[edit]
The extent to which Tafari Makonnen contributed to the movement that would come to depose Lij Iyasu has been discussed extensively, particularly in Haile Selassie's own detailed account of the matter. Iyasu was the designated but uncrowned emperor of Ethiopia from 1913 to 1916. Iyasu's reputation for scandalous behavior and a disrespectful attitude towards the nobles at the court of his grandfather, Menelik II,[66] damaged his reputation. Iyasu's flirtation with Islam was considered treasonous among the Ethiopian Orthodox Christian leadership of the empire. On 27 September 1916, Iyasu was deposed.[67]
Empress Zewditu with one of her trusted priests
Ras Tafari at his investiture as regent on 11 February 1917
Contributing to the movement that deposed Iyasu were conservatives such as Fitawrari Habte Giyorgis, Menelik II's longtime Minister of War. The movement to depose Iyasu preferred Tafari, as he attracted support from both progressive and conservative factions. Ultimately, Iyasu was deposed on the grounds of conversion to Islam.[35][67] In his place, the daughter of Menelik II (the aunt of Iyasu) was named Empress Zewditu, while Tafari was elevated to the rank of Ras and was made heir apparent and Crown Prince. In the power arrangement that followed, Tafari accepted the role of Regent Plenipotentiary (Balemulu 'Inderase)[nb 5] and became the de facto ruler of the Ethiopian Empire (Mangista Ityop'p'ya). Zewditu would govern while Tafari would administer.[70]
While Iyasu had been deposed on 27 September 1916, on 8 October he managed to escape into the Ogaden Desert and his father, Negus Mikael of Wollo, had time to come to his aid.[71] On 27 October, Negus Mikael and his army met an army under Fitawrari Habte Giyorgis loyal to Zewditu and Tafari. During the Battle of Segale, Negus Mikael was defeated and captured. Any chance that Iyasu would regain the throne was ended, and he went into hiding. On 11 January 1921, after avoiding capture for about five years, Iyasu was taken into custody by Gugsa Araya Selassie.
On 11 February 1917, the coronation for Zewditu took place. She pledged to rule justly through her Regent, Tafari. While Tafari was the more visible of the two, Zewditu was far from an honorary ruler. Her position required that she arbitrate the claims of competing factions. In other words, she had the last word. Tafari carried the burden of daily administration, but, because his position was relatively weak, this was often an exercise in futility. Initially his personal army was poorly equipped, his finances were limited, and he had little leverage to withstand the combined influence of the Empress, the Minister of War, or the provincial governors.[71]
Haile Selassie with President Lyndon B. Johnson at the White House
During his Regency, the new Crown Prince developed the policy of cautious modernization initiated by Menelik II. Also, during this time, he survived the 1918 flu pandemic, having come down with the illness.[72] He secured Ethiopia's admission to the League of Nations in 1923 by promising to eradicate slavery; each emperor since Tewodros II had issued proclamations to halt slavery,[73] but without effect: the internationally scorned practice persisted well into Haile Selassie's reign with an estimated 2 million slaves in Ethiopia in the early 1930s.[74][75]
Travel abroad[edit]
In 1924, Ras Tafari toured Europe and the Middle East visiting Jerusalem, Alexandria, Paris, Luxembourg, Brussels, Amsterdam, Stockholm, London, Geneva, Gibraltar and Athens. With him on his tour was a group that included Ras Seyum Mangasha of western Tigray Province; Ras Hailu Tekle Haymanot of Gojjam province; Ras Mulugeta Yeggazu of Illubabor Province; Ras Makonnen Endelkachew; and Blattengeta Heruy Welde Sellasie. The primary goal of the trip to Europe was for Ethiopia to gain access to the sea. In Paris, Tafari was to find out from the French Foreign Ministry (Quai d'Orsay) that this goal would not be realized.[76] However, failing this, he and his retinue inspected schools, hospitals, factories, and churches. Although patterning many reforms after European models, Tafari remained wary of European pressure. To guard against economic imperialism, Tafari required that all enterprises have at least partial local ownership.[77] Of his modernization campaign, he remarked, "We need European progress only because we are surrounded by it. That is at once a benefit and a misfortune."[78]
Throughout Tafari's travels in Europe, the Levant, and Egypt, he and his entourage were greeted with enthusiasm and fascination. Seyum Mangasha accompanied him and Hailu Tekle Haymanot who, like Tafari, were sons of generals who contributed to the victorious war against Italy a quarter-century earlier at the Battle of Adwa.[79] Another member of his entourage, Mulugeta Yeggazu, actually fought at Adwa as a young man. The "Oriental Dignity" of the Ethiopians[80] and their "rich, picturesque court dress"[81] were sensationalized in the media; among his entourage he even included a pride of lions, which he distributed as gifts to President Alexandre Millerand and Prime Minister Raymond Poincaré of France, to King George V of the United Kingdom, and to the Zoological Garden (Jardin Zoologique) of Paris, France.[79] As one historian noted, "Rarely can a tour have inspired so many anecdotes".[79] In return for two lions, the United Kingdom presented Tafari with the imperial crown of Emperor Tewodros II for its safe return to Empress Zewditu. The crown had been taken by General Sir Robert Napier during the 1868 Expedition to Abyssinia.[82]
In this period, the Crown Prince visited the Armenian monastery of Jerusalem. There, he adopted 40 Armenian orphans (አርባ ልጆች Arba Lijoch, "forty children"), who had lost their parents during the Armenian Genocide. Tafari arranged for the musical education of the youths, and they came to form the imperial brass band.[83]
King and emperor[edit]
See also: Modernization under Haile Selassie
Tafari's authority was challenged in 1928 when Dejazmach Balcha Safo went to Addis Ababa with a sizeable armed force. When Tafari consolidated his hold over the provinces, many of Menelik's appointees refused to abide by the new regulations. Balcha Safo, the governor (Shum) of coffee-rich Sidamo Province, was particularly troublesome. The revenues he remitted to the central government did not reflect the accrued profits and Tafari recalled him to Addis Ababa. The old man came in high dudgeon and, insultingly, with a large army.[nb 6] The Dejazmatch paid homage to Empress Zewditu, but snubbed Tafari.[84][85] On 18 February, while Balcha Safo and his personal bodyguard[nb 7] were in Addis Ababa, Tafari had Ras Kassa Haile Darge buy off his army and arranged to have him displaced as the Shum of Sidamo Province[86] by Birru Wolde Gabriel who himself was replaced by Desta Damtew.[71]
Even so, the gesture of Balcha Safo empowered Empress Zewditu politically and she attempted to have Tafari tried for treason. He was tried for his benevolent dealings with Italy including a 20-year peace accord that was signed on 2 August.[61] In September, a group of palace reactionaries including some courtiers of the empress, made a final bid to get rid of Tafari. The attempted coup d'état was tragic in its origins and comic in its end. When confronted by Tafari and a company of his troops, the ringleaders of the coup took refuge on the palace grounds in Menelik's mausoleum. Tafari and his men surrounded them only to be surrounded themselves by the personal guard of Zewditu. More of Tafari's khaki clad soldiers arrived and decided the outcome in his favor with superiority of arms.[87] Popular support, as well as the support of the police,[84] remained with Tafari. Ultimately, the Empress relented and, on 7 October 1928, she crowned Tafari as Negus (Amharic: "King").
The crowning of Tafari as King was controversial. He occupied the same territory as the empress rather than going off to a regional kingdom of the empire. Two monarchs, even with one being the vassal and the other the emperor (in this case empress), had never occupied the same location as their seat in Ethiopian history. Conservatives agitated to redress this perceived insult to the crown's dignity, leading to the rebellion of Ras Gugsa Welle. Gugsa Welle was the husband of the empress and the Shum of Begemder Province. In early 1930, he raised an army and marched it from his governorate at Gondar towards Addis Ababa. On 31 March 1930, Gugsa Welle was met by forces loyal to Negus Tafari and was defeated at the Battle of Anchem. Gugsa Welle was killed in action.[88] News of Gugsa Welle's defeat and death had hardly spread through Addis Ababa when the empress died suddenly on 2 April 1930. Although it was long rumored that the empress was poisoned upon her husband's defeat,[89] or alternately that she died from shock upon hearing of the death of her estranged yet beloved husband,[90] it has since been documented that the Empress succumbed to paratyphoid fever and complications from diabetes after the Orthodox clergy imposed strict rules concerning her diet against her physicians orders with regards to Lent.[91][92]
Cover of Time magazine, 3 November 1930
Upon Zewditu's death, Tafari himself rose to emperor and was proclaimed Neguse Negest ze-'Ityopp'ya, "King of Kings of Ethiopia". He was crowned on 2 November 1930, at Addis Ababa's Cathedral of St. George. The coronation was by all accounts "a most splendid affair",[93] and it was attended by royals and dignitaries from all over the world. Among those in attendance were The Duke of Gloucester (King George V's son), Marshal Louis Franchet d'Espèrey of France, and the Prince of Udine representing King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy. Special Ambassador Herman Murray Jacoby attended the coronation as the personal representative of President Herbert Hoover.[94][95][96][97]  Other emissaries from Egypt, Turkey, Sweden, Belgium, and Japan were also present.[93] British author Evelyn Waugh was also present, penning a contemporary report on the event, and American travel lecturer Burton Holmes shot the only known film footage of the event.[98][99] One newspaper report suggested that the celebration had incurred a cost in excess of $3,000,000.[100] Many of those in attendance received lavish gifts;[101] in one instance, the Christian emperor even sent a gold-encased Bible to an American bishop who had not attended the coronation, but who had dedicated a prayer to the emperor on the day of the coronation.[102]
Haile Selassie introduced Ethiopia's first written constitution on 16 July 1931,[103] providing for a bicameral legislature.[104] The constitution kept power in the hands of the nobility, but it did establish democratic standards among the nobility, envisaging a transition to democratic rule: it would prevail "until the people are in a position to elect themselves."[104] The constitution limited the succession to the throne to the descendants of Haile Selassie, a point that met with the disapprobation of other dynastic princes, including the princes of Tigrai and even the emperor's loyal cousin, Ras Kassa Haile Darge.
In 1932, the Sultanate of Jimma was formally absorbed into Ethiopia following the death of Sultan Abba Jifar II of Jimma.
Conflict with Italy[edit]
See also: Abyssinia Crisis and Second Italo-Abyssinian War
Ethiopia became the target of renewed Italian imperialist designs in the 1930s. Benito Mussolini's Fascist regime was keen to avenge the military defeats Italy had suffered to Ethiopia in the First Italo-Abyssinian War, and to efface the failed attempt by "liberal" Italy to conquer the country, as epitomised by the defeat at Adwa.[105][106][107] A conquest of Ethiopia could also empower the cause of fascism and embolden its empire's rhetoric.[107] Ethiopia would also provide a bridge between Italy's Eritrean and Italian Somaliland possessions. Ethiopia's position in the League of Nations did not dissuade the Italians from invading in 1935; the "collective security" envisaged by the League proved useless, and a scandal erupted when the Hoare-Laval Pact revealed that Ethiopia's League allies were scheming to appease Italy.[108]
Haile Selassie with President Kennedy outside the White House
Mobilization[edit]
Following 5 December 1934 Italian invasion of Ethiopia at Welwel, Ogaden Province, Haile Selassie joined his northern armies and set up headquarters at Desse in Wollo province. He issued his mobilization order on 3 October 1935:
If you withhold from your country Ethiopia the death from cough or head-cold of which you would otherwise die, refusing to resist (in your district, in your patrimony, and in your home) our enemy who is coming from a distant country to attack us, and if you persist in not shedding your blood, you will be rebuked for it by your Creator and will be cursed by your offspring. Hence, without cooling your heart of accustomed valour, there emerges your decision to fight fiercely, mindful of your history that will last far into the future…  If on your march you touch any property inside houses or cattle and crops outside, not even grass, straw, and dung excluded, it is like killing your brother who is dying with you… You, countryman, living at the various access routes, set up a market for the army at the places where it is camping and on the day your district-governor will indicate to you, lest the soldiers campaigning for Ethiopia's liberty should experience difficulty. You will not be charged excise duty, until the end of the campaign, for anything you are marketing at the military camps: I have granted you remission… After you have been ordered to go to war, but are then idly missing from the campaign, and when you are seized by the local chief or by an accuser, you will have punishment inflicted upon your inherited land, your property, and your body; to the accuser I shall grant a third of your property…
On 19 October 1935, Haile Selassie gave more precise orders for his army to his Commander-in-Chief, Ras Kassa:
When you set up tents, it is to be in caves and by trees and in a wood, if the place happens to be adjoining to these―and separated in the various platoons. Tents are to be set up at a distance of 30 cubits from each other.
When an aeroplane is sighted, one should leave large open roads and wide meadows and march in valleys and trenches and by zigzag routes, along places that have trees and woods.
When an aeroplane comes to drop bombs, it will not suit it to do so unless it comes down to about 100 metres; hence when it flies low for such action, one should fire a volley with a good and very long gun and then quickly disperse. When three or four bullets have hit it, the aeroplane is bound to fall down. But let only those fire who have been ordered to shoot with a weapon that has been selected for such firing, for if everyone shoots who possesses a gun, there is no advantage in this except to waste bullets and to disclose the men's whereabouts.
Lest the aeroplane, when rising again, should detect the whereabouts of those who are dispersed, it is well to remain cautiously scattered as long as it is still fairly close. In time of war it suits the enemy to aim his guns at adorned shields, ornaments, silver and gold cloaks, silk shirts, and similar things. Whether one possesses a jacket or not, it is best to wear a narrow-sleeved shirt with faded colours. When we return, with God's help, you can wear your gold and silver decorations then. Now it is time to go and fight. We offer you all these words of advice in the hope that no great harm should befall you through lack of caution.  At the same time, We are glad to assure you that in time of war. We are ready to shed Our blood in your midst for the sake of Ethiopia's freedom…"[109]
Haile Selassie in 1934
Compared to the Ethiopians, the Italians had an advanced, modern military that included a large air force. The Italians would also come to employ chemical weapons extensively throughout the conflict, even targeting Red Cross field hospitals in violation of the Geneva Conventions.[110]
Progress of the war[edit]
Starting in early October 1935, the Italians invaded Ethiopia. But, by November, the pace of invasion had slowed appreciably and Haile Selassie's northern armies were able to launch what was known as the "Christmas Offensive". During this offensive, the Italians were forced back in places and put on the defensive. In early 1936, the First Battle of Tembien stopped the progress of the Ethiopian offensive and the Italians were ready to continue their offensive. Following the defeat and destruction of the northern Ethiopian armies at the Battle of Amba Aradam, the Second Battle of Tembien, and the Battle of Shire, Haile Selassie took the field with the last Ethiopian army on the northern front. On 31 March 1936, he launched a counterattack against the Italians himself at the Battle of Maychew in southern Tigray. The emperor's army was defeated and retreated in disarray. As Haile Selassie's army withdrew, the Italians attacked from the air along with rebellious Raya and Azebo tribesmen on the ground, who were armed and paid by the Italians.[111]
When the struggle to resist Italy appeared doomed, Haile Selassie traveled to the rock-hewn churches of Lalibela for fasting and prayer.[112]
Haile Selassie made a solitary pilgrimage to the churches at Lalibela, at considerable risk of capture, before returning to his capital.[113] After a stormy session of the council of state, it was agreed that because Addis Ababa could not be defended, the government would relocate to the southern town of Gore, and that in the interest of preserving the Imperial house, the emperor's wife Menen Asfaw and the rest of the imperial family should immediately depart for French Somaliland, and from there continue on to Jerusalem.[citation needed]
Exile debate[edit]
The Emperor arrives in Jerusalem. May 1936
After further debate as to whether Haile Selassie should go to Gore or accompany his family into exile, it was agreed that he should leave Ethiopia with his family and present the case of Ethiopia to the League of Nations at Geneva. The decision was not unanimous and several participants, including the nobleman Blatta Tekle Wolde Hawariat, strenuously objected to the idea of an Ethiopian monarch fleeing before an invading force.[114] Haile Selassie appointed his cousin Ras Imru Haile Selassie as Prince Regent in his absence, departing with his family for French Somaliland on 2 May 1936.
On 5 May, Marshal Pietro Badoglio led Italian troops into Addis Ababa, and Mussolini declared Ethiopia an Italian province. Victor Emanuel III was proclaimed as the new Emperor of Ethiopia. On the previous day, the Ethiopian exiles had left French Somaliland aboard the British cruiser HMS Enterprise. They were bound for Jerusalem in the British Mandate of Palestine, where the Ethiopian royal family maintained a residence. The Imperial family disembarked at Haifa and then went on to Jerusalem. Once there, Haile Selassie and his retinue prepared to make their case at Geneva. The choice of Jerusalem was highly symbolic, since the Solomonic Dynasty claimed descent from the House of David. Leaving the Holy Land, Haile Selassie and his entourage sailed aboard the British cruiser HMS Capetown for Gibraltar, where he stayed at the Rock Hotel. From Gibraltar, the exiles were transferred to an ordinary liner. By doing this, the United Kingdom government was spared the expense of a state reception.[115]
Collective security and the League of Nations, 1936[edit]
Mussolini invaded Ethiopia and promptly declared his own "Italian Empire". After the League of Nations afforded Haile Selassie the opportunity to address the assembly, Italy withdrew its League delegation, on 12 May 1936.[116] It was in this context that Haile Selassie walked into the hall of the League of Nations, introduced by the President of the Assembly as "His Imperial Majesty, the Emperor of Ethiopia" (Sa Majesté Imperiale, l'Empereur d'Éthiopie). The introduction caused a great many Italian journalists in the galleries to erupt into jeering, heckling, and whistling. As it turned out, they had earlier been issued whistles by Mussolini's son-in-law, Count Galeazzo Ciano.[117] The Romanian delegate and former League president, Nicolae Titulescu, famously jumped to his feet in response and cried "To the door with the savages!", and the offending journalists were removed from the hall. Haile Selassie waited calmly for the hall to be cleared, and responded "majestically"[118] with a speech considered by some[by whom?] among the most stirring of the 20th century.[119]
Although fluent in French, the League's working language, Haile Selassie chose to deliver his historic speech in his native Amharic. He asserted that, because his "confidence in the League was absolute", his people were now being slaughtered. He pointed out that the same European states that found in Ethiopia's favor at the League of Nations were refusing Ethiopia credit and matériel while aiding Italy, which was employing chemical weapons on military and civilian targets alike.
It was at the time when the operations for the encircling of Makale were taking place that the Italian command, fearing a rout, followed the procedure [that] it is now my duty to denounce to the world. Special sprayers were installed on board aircraft so that they could vaporize, over vast areas of territory, a fine, death-dealing rain. Groups of nine, fifteen, eighteen aircraft followed one another so that the fog issuing from them formed a continuous sheet. It was thus that, as from the end of January 1936, soldiers, women, children, cattle, rivers, lakes, and pastures were drenched continually with this deadly rain.  In order to kill off systematically all living creatures, in order to more surely poison waters and pastures, the Italian command made its aircraft pass over and over again. That was its chief method of warfare.[120]
Noting that his own "small people of 12 million inhabitants, without arms, without resources" could never withstand an attack by a large power such as Italy, with its 42 million people and "unlimited quantities of the most death-dealing weapons", he contended that the aggression threatened all small states, and that all small states were in effect reduced to vassal states in the absence of collective action. He admonished the League that "God and history will remember your judgment."[121]
It is collective security: it is the very existence of the League of Nations. It is the confidence that each State is to place in international treaties…  In a word, it is international morality that is at stake. Have the signatures appended to a Treaty value only in so far as the signatory Powers have a personal, direct and immediate interest involved?
At the beginning of 1936 Time had named him "Man of the Year" for 1935[122] and his June 1936 speech made the emperor an icon for anti-fascists around the world.  He failed, however, to get what he most needed: the League agreed to only partial and ineffective sanctions on Italy. Only six nations in 1937 did not recognize Italy's occupation: China, New Zealand, the Soviet Union, the Republic of Spain, Mexico and the United States.[106] It is often said the League of Nations effectively collapsed due to its failure to condemn Italy's invasion of Abyssinia.[citation needed] Despite this international praise, Selassie was left without much-needed military equipment. Upon his return to Ethiopia, it was primarily his military cunning and strategy that led him to defeat Italy. For example, Ethiopian troops were able to successfully raid Italian weapons stores and used pack animals to carry artillery over rugged terrain in order to position themselves to ambush Italian troops in areas they were not prepared to fight.[123]
Exile[edit]
A plate from the dinner service sold by Haile Selassie in England in 1937
Haile Selassie in 1942
Haile Selassie spent his exile years (1936–41) in Bath, England, in Fairfield House, which he bought. The emperor and Kassa Haile Darge took morning walks together behind the 14-room Victorian house's high walls. Haile Selassie's favorite reading was "diplomatic history." But most of his serious hours were occupied with the 90,000-word story of his life that he was laboriously writing in Amharic.[124]
Prior to Fairfield House, he briefly stayed at Warne's Hotel in Worthing[125] and in Parkside, Wimbledon.[126] A bust of Haile Selassie by Hilda Seligman stood in nearby Cannizaro Park to commemorate this time, and was a popular place of pilgrimage for London's Rastafari community, until it was destroyed by protestors on 30 June 2020.[127] Haile Selassie stayed at the Abbey Hotel in Malvern in the 1930s, and his granddaughters and daughters of court officials were educated at Clarendon School for Girls in North Malvern. During his time in Malvern, he attended services at Holy Trinity Church, in Link Top. A blue plaque, commemorating his stay in Malvern, was unveiled on Saturday, 25 June 2011. As part of the ceremony, a delegation from the Rastafari movement gave a short address and a drum recital.[128][129][130][131][132]
Haile Selassie's activity in this period was focused on countering Italian propaganda as to the state of Ethiopian resistance and the legality of the occupation.[133] He spoke out against the desecration of houses of worship and historical artifacts (including the theft of a 1,600-year-old imperial obelisk), and condemned the atrocities suffered by the Ethiopian civilian population.[134] He continued to plead for League intervention and to voice his certainty that "God's judgment will eventually visit the weak and the mighty alike",[135] though his attempts to gain support for the struggle against Italy were largely unsuccessful until Italy entered World War II on the German side in June 1940.[136]
The emperor's pleas for international support did take root in the United States, particularly among African-American organizations sympathetic to the Ethiopian cause.[137] In 1937, Haile Selassie was to give a Christmas Day radio address to the American people to thank his supporters when his taxi was involved in a traffic accident, leaving him with a fractured knee.[138] Rather than canceling the radio broadcast, he delivered the address, in which he linked Christianity and goodwill with the Covenant of the League of Nations, and asserted that "War is not the only means to stop war":[138]
With the birth of the Son of God, an unprecedented, an unrepeatable, and a long-anticipated phenomenon occurred. He was born in a stable instead of a palace, in a manger instead of a crib. The hearts of the Wise men were struck by fear and wonder due to His Majestic Humbleness. The kings prostrated themselves before Him and worshipped Him. 'Peace be to those who have good will'. This became the first message.
...Although the toils of wise people may earn them respect, it is a fact of life that the spirit of the wicked continues to cast its shadow on this world. The arrogant are seen visibly leading their people into crime and destruction. The laws of the League of Nations are constantly violated and wars and acts of aggression repeatedly take place…  So that the spirit of the cursed will not gain predominance over the human race whom Christ redeemed with his blood, all peace-loving people should cooperate to stand firm in order to preserve and promote lawfulness and peace.[138]
During this period, Haile Selassie suffered several personal tragedies. His two sons-in-law, Ras Desta Damtew and Dejazmach Beyene Merid, were both executed by the Italians.[135] The emperor's daughter, Princess Romanework, wife of Dejazmach Beyene Merid, was herself taken into captivity with her children, and she died in Italy in 1941.[139] His daughter Tsehai died during childbirth shortly after the restoration in 1942.[140]
After his return to Ethiopia, he donated Fairfield House to the city of Bath as a residence for the aged.[141] In September 2019 two blue plaques, commemorating Haile Selassie, were unveiled by his grandson, one at Fairfield House and one in Weston-super-Mare, where he has swum in the Tropicana pool.[142]
1940s and 1950s[edit]
Newspaper illustration drawn by Charles H. Alston for the U.S. Office of War Information Domestic Operations Branch News Bureau, 1943
Meeting with Crown Prince Akihito in 1955
Haile Selassie with Brigadier Daniel Sandford (left) and Colonel Wingate (right) in Dambacha Fort, after its capture, 15 April 1941
Plaque commemorating the visit of Haile Selassie I to Mexico, 1954 – Etiopía Station, line 3 of the Mexico City Metro
British forces, which consisted primarily of Ethiopian-backed African and South African colonial troops under the "Gideon Force" of Colonel Orde Wingate, coordinated the military effort to liberate Ethiopia. The emperor himself issued several imperial proclamations in this period, demonstrating that, while authority was not divided up in any formal way, British military might and the emperor's populist appeal could be joined in the concerted effort to liberate Ethiopia.[136]
On 18 January 1941, during the East African Campaign, Haile Selassie crossed the border between Sudan and Ethiopia near the village of Um Iddla. The standard of the Lion of Judah was raised again. Two days later, he and a force of Ethiopian patriots joined Gideon Force, which was already in Ethiopia and preparing the way.[143] Italy was defeated by a force of the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth of Nations, Free France, Free Belgium, and Ethiopian patriots. On 5 May 1941, Haile Selassie entered Addis Ababa and personally addressed the Ethiopian people, exactly five years after the fascist forces entered Addis Ababa:
Today is the day on which we defeated our enemy. Therefore, when we say let us rejoice with our hearts, let not our rejoicing be in any other way but in the spirit of Christ. Do not return evil for evil. Do not indulge in the atrocities [that] the enemy has been practicing in his usual way, even to the last.
Take care not to spoil the good name of Ethiopia by acts [that] are worthy of the enemy. We shall see that our enemies are disarmed and sent out the same way they came. As Saint George who killed the dragon is the Patron Saint of our army as well as of our allies, let us unite with our allies in everlasting friendship and amity in order to be able to stand against the godless and cruel dragon [that] has newly risen and [that] is oppressing [hu]mankind.[144]
On 27 August 1942, Haile Selassie confirmed the legal basis for the abolition of slavery that had been enacted by Italy throughout the empire and imposed severe penalties, including death, for slave trading.[145] After World War II, Ethiopia became a charter member of the United Nations. In 1948, the Ogaden, a region disputed with both Italian Somaliland and British Somaliland, was granted to Ethiopia.[146] On 2 December 1950, the UN General Assembly adopted Resolution 390 (V), establishing the federation of Eritrea (the former Italian colony) into Ethiopia.[147] Eritrea was to have its own constitution, which would provide for ethnic, linguistic, and cultural balance, while Ethiopia was to manage its finances, defense, and foreign policy.[147]
Despite his centralization policies that had been made before World War II, Haile Selassie still found himself unable to push for all the programmes he wanted. In 1942, he attempted to institute a progressive tax scheme, but this failed due to opposition from the nobility, and only a flat tax was passed; in 1951, he agreed to reduce this as well.[148] Ethiopia was still "semi-feudal",[149] and the emperor's attempts to alter its social and economic form by reforming its modes of taxation met with resistance from the nobility and clergy, which were eager to resume their privileges in the post-war era.[148] Where Haile Selassie actually did succeed in effecting new land taxes, the burdens were often still passed by the landowners to the peasants.[148]
Between 1941 and 1959, Haile Selassie worked to establish the autocephaly of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.[150] The Ethiopian Orthodox Church had been headed by the Abuna, a bishop who answered to the Pope of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. In 1942 and 1945, Haile Selassie applied to the Holy Synod of the Coptic Orthodox Church to establish the independence of Ethiopian bishops, and when his appeals were denied he threatened to sever relations with the Coptic Church of Alexandria.[150] Finally, in 1959, Pope Kyrillos VI elevated the Abuna to Patriarch-Catholicos.[150] The Ethiopian Church remained affiliated with the Alexandrian Church.[148] In addition to these efforts, Haile Selassie changed the Ethiopian church-state relationship by introducing taxation of church lands, and by restricting the legal privileges of the clergy, who had formerly been tried in their own courts for civil offenses.[148]
In 1948, the Harari Muslims of Harar with Somali allies staged a significant rebellion against the empire; the state responded violently. Hundreds were arrested and the entire town of Harar was put under house arrest.[151] The government also took control of many assets and estates belonging to the people.[152][153] This led to a massive exodus of Hararis from the Harari Region, which had not occurred in their history prior.[15][154] The dissatisfaction of the Harari stemmed from the fact that they had never received limited autonomy of Harar, which was promised by Menelik II after his conquest of the kingdom. The promise was eroded by successive Amhara governors.[155] According to historians Tim Carmicheal and Roman Loimeier, Haile Selassie was directly involved in the suppression of the Harari movement that formed as a response to the crackdown on Hararis who collaborated with the Italians during their occupation of Ethiopia from 1935 to 1941.[156][157]
In keeping with the principle of collective security, for which he was an outspoken proponent, Haile Selassie sent a contingent, under General Mulugueta Bulli, known as the Kagnew Battalion, to take part in the Korean War by supporting the United Nations Command. It was attached to the American 7th Infantry Division, and fought in a number of engagements including the Battle of Pork Chop Hill.[158] In a 1954 speech, Haile Selassie spoke of Ethiopian participation in the Korean War as a redemption of the principles of collective security:
Nearly two decades ago, I personally assumed before history the responsibility of placing the fate of my beloved people on the issue of collective security, for surely, at that time and for the first time in world history, that issue was posed in all its clarity. My searching of conscience convinced me of the rightness of my course and if, after untold sufferings and, indeed, unaided resistance at the time of aggression, we now see the final vindication of that principle in our joint action in Korea, I can only be thankful that God gave me strength to persist in our faith until the moment of its recent glorious vindication.[159]
Haile Selassie photographed during a radio broadcast
During the celebrations of his Silver Jubilee in November 1955, Haile Selassie introduced a revised constitution,[160] whereby he retained effective power, while extending political participation to the people by allowing the lower house of parliament to become an elected body. Party politics were not provided for. Modern educational methods were more widely spread throughout the Empire. The country embarked on a development scheme and plans for modernization, tempered by Ethiopian traditions, and within the framework of the state's ancient monarchical structure.
Haile Selassie compromised, when practical, with the traditionalists in the nobility and church. He also tried to improve relations between the state and ethnic groups, and granted autonomy to Afar lands that were difficult to control. Still, his reforms to end feudalism were slow and weakened by the compromises he made with the entrenched aristocracy. The Revised Constitution of 1955 has been criticized for reasserting "the indisputable power of the monarch" and maintaining the relative powerlessness of the peasants.[161]
Haile Selassie also maintained cordial relations with the government of the United Kingdom through charitable gestures. He sent aid to the British government in 1947 when Britain was affected by heavy flooding. His letter to Lord Meork, National Distress Fund, London said, "even though We are busy of helping our people who didn't recover from the crises of the war, We heard that your fertile and beautiful country is devastated by the unusually heavy rain, and your request for aid. Therefore, We are sending small amount of money, about one thousand pounds through our embassy to show our sympathy and cooperation."[162] He also left his home in exile, Fairfield House, Bath, to the City of Bath for the use of the aged in 1959.
1958 famine of Tigray[edit]
In the summer of 1958, a widespread famine in the Tigray province of northern Ethiopia was already two years old yet people in Addis Ababa knew hardly anything about it. When significant reports of death finally reached the Ministry of Interior in September 1959 the central government immediately disclosed the information to the public and began asking for contributions. The Emperor personally donated 2,000 tons of relief grain, the U.S. sent 32,000 tons, which was distributed between Eritrea and Tigray, and money for aid was raised throughout the country but it is estimated that approximately 100,000 people had died before the crisis ended in August 1961. The causes of the famine were attributed to drought, locusts, hailstone and epidemics of small-pox, typhus, measles and malaria.[163][164][165]
1960s[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Haile Selassie" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Haile Selassie contributed Ethiopian troops to the United Nations Operation in the Congo peacekeeping force during the 1960 Congo Crisis, to preserve Congolese integrity, per United Nations Security Council Resolution 143. On 13 December 1960, while Haile Selassie was on a state visit to Brazil, his Kebur Zabagna (Imperial Guard) forces staged an unsuccessful coup, briefly proclaiming Haile Selassie's eldest son Asfa Wossen as emperor. The regular army and police forces crushed the coup d'état. The coup attempt lacked broad popular support, was denounced by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, and was unpopular with the army, air force and police. Nonetheless, the effort to depose the emperor had support among students and the educated classes.[166] The coup attempt has been characterized as a pivotal moment in Ethiopian history, the point at which Ethiopians "for the first time questioned the power of the king to rule without the people's consent".[167] Student populations began to empathize with the peasantry and poor and advocate on their behalf.[167] The coup spurred Haile Selassie to accelerate reform, which was manifested in the form of land grants to military and police officials.
Haile Selassie with U.S. President John F. Kennedy, October 1963
The emperor continued to be a staunch ally of the West, while pursuing a firm policy of decolonization in Africa, which was still largely under European colonial rule. The United Nations conducted a lengthy inquiry regarding Eritrea's status, with the superpowers each vying for a stake in the state's future. Britain, the administrator at the time, suggested Eritrea's partition between Sudan and Ethiopia, separating Christians and Muslims. The idea was instantly rejected by Eritrean political parties, as well as the UN.
A UN plebiscite voted 46 to 10 to have Eritrea be federated with Ethiopia, which was later stipulated on 2 December 1950 in resolution 390 (V). Eritrea would have its own parliament and administration and would be represented in what had been the Ethiopian parliament and would become the federal parliament.[168] Haile Selassie would have none of the European attempts to draft a separate Constitution under which Eritrea would be governed, and wanted his own 1955 Constitution protecting families to apply in both Ethiopia and Eritrea. In 1961 the 30-year Eritrean Struggle for Independence began, followed by the dissolution of the federation and shutting down of Eritrea's parliament.
Haile Selassie with President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt in Addis Ababa for the Organisation of African Unity summit, 1963.
In September 1961, Haile Selassie attended the Conference of Heads of State of Government of Non-Aligned Countries in Belgrade, FPR Yugoslavia. This is considered to be the founding conference of the Non-Aligned Movement.
In 1961, tensions between independence-minded Eritreans and Ethiopian forces culminated in the Eritrean War of Independence. Eritrea's elected parliament voted to become the fourteenth province of Ethiopia in 1962.[169][170] The war would continue for 30 years; first Haile Selassie, then the Soviet-backed junta that succeeded him, attempted to retain Eritrea by force.
Wikisource has original text related to this article:
Haile Selassie's address to the United Nations, 1963
In 1963, Haile Selassie presided over the formation of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU), the precursor of the continent-wide African Union (AU). The new organization would establish its headquarters in Addis Ababa. In May of that year, Haile Selassie was elected as the OAU's first official chairperson, a rotating seat. Along with Modibo Keïta of Mali, the Ethiopian leader would later help successfully negotiate the Bamako Accords, which brought an end to the border conflict between Morocco and Algeria. In 1964, Haile Selassie would initiate the concept of the United States of Africa, a proposition later taken up by Muammar Gaddafi.[171]
On 4 October 1963, Haile Selassie addressed the General Assembly of the United Nations[172][173] referring in his address to his earlier speech to the League of Nations:
Twenty-seven years ago, as Emperor of Ethiopia, I mounted the rostrum in Geneva, Switzerland, to address the League of Nations and to appeal for relief from the destruction [that] had been unleashed against my defenseless nation, by the fascist invader. I spoke then both to and for the conscience of the world. My words went unheeded, but history testifies to the accuracy of the warning that I gave in 1936. Today, I stand before the world organization [that] has succeeded to the mantle discarded by its discredited predecessor. In this body is enshrined the principle of collective security [that] I unsuccessfully invoked at Geneva. Here, in this Assembly, reposes the best – perhaps the last – hope for the peaceful survival of [hu]mankind.[174]
On 25 November 1963, the emperor was among other heads of state, including France's President Charles de Gaulle and Belgium's King Baudouin, who traveled to Washington, D.C., and attended the funeral of assassinated President John F. Kennedy. Haile Selassie was the only African head of state to attend the funeral.[175] In addition, he was also the only one of the three prominent world leaders (De Gaulle, Baudouin, and Selassie) that would have another meeting with the new president Lyndon B. Johnson, in Washington during his presidency; the two would meet on Johnson's first day in the Oval Office of the White House and again during an informal visit to the United States in 1967.[176][177][178]
In 1966, Haile Selassie attempted to replace the historical tax system with a single progressive income tax, which would significantly weaken the nobility who had previously avoided paying most of their taxes.[179] Even with alterations, this law led to a revolt in Gojjam, which was repressed although enforcement of the tax was abandoned. Having achieved its design in undermining the tax, the revolt encouraged other landowners to defy Haile Selassie.
A parade in honor of Haile Selassie, turns onto Pennsylvania Avenue from New York Avenue; crowds line the street. Washington, D.C 1963
While he had fully approved and assured Ethiopia's participation in UN-approved collective security operations, including Korea and Congo, Haile Selassie drew a distinction between it and the non-UN-approved foreign intervention in Indochina, consistently deploring it as needless suffering and calling for the Vietnam War to end on several occasions. At the same time he remained open toward the United States and commended it for making progress with African Americans' Civil Rights legislation in the 1950s and 1960s, while visiting the US several times during these years.
In 1967, he visited Montréal, Canada, to open the Ethiopian Pavilion at the Expo '67 World's Fair where he received great acclaim among other World leaders there for the occasion.
Student unrest became a regular feature of Ethiopian life in the 1960s and 1970s. Communism took root in large segments of the Ethiopian intelligentsia, particularly among those who had studied abroad and had thus been exposed to radical and left-wing sentiments that were becoming popular in other parts of the globe.[166] Resistance by conservative elements at the Imperial Court and Parliament, and by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, made Haile Selassie's land reform proposals difficult to implement, and also damaged the standing of the government, costing Haile Selassie much of the goodwill he had once enjoyed. This bred resentment among the peasant population. Efforts to weaken unions also hurt his image.[citation needed] As these issues began to pile up, Haile Selassie left much of domestic governance to his Prime Minister, Aklilu Habte Wold, and concentrated more on foreign affairs.
1970s[edit]
Haile Selassie I in Toledo (Spain) in April 1971. Picture by Eduardo Butragueño.
Outside of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie continued to enjoy enormous prestige and respect. As the longest-serving head of state in power, he was often given precedence over other leaders at state events, such as the state funerals of John F. Kennedy and Charles de Gaulle, the summits of the Non-Aligned Movement, and the 1971 celebration of the 2,500 years of the Persian Empire. In 1970 he visited Italy as a guest of President Giuseppe Saragat, and in Milan he met Giordano Dell'Amore, President of Italian Savings Banks Association. He visited China in October 1971, and was the first foreign head of state to meet Mao Zedong following the death of Mao's designated successor Lin Biao in a plane crash in Mongolia.
Human rights in Ethiopia under Haile Selassie's regime were poor.[citation needed] Civil liberties and political rights were low with Freedom House giving Ethiopia a "Not Free" score for both civil liberties and political rights in the last years of Haile Selassie's rule.[180] Although some sources state that common human rights abuses included imprisonment and torture of political dissidents and very poor prison conditions;[16] the Emperor was known for pardoning hundreds of prisoners at a time and there were no more than ten political prisoners during his entire reign.[181] The Imperial Ethiopian Army also carried out a number of atrocities while fighting the Eritrean separatists. This was due to frustrated soldiers, some of them ethnically Eritrean, who broke ranks with the military, disobeyed laws and began illegally destroying Eritrean villages that supported the rebels.[182] There were a number of mass killings of hundreds of civilians during the war in the late 1960s and early '70s.[183][184][185][186] An investigation into the atrocities was started by Haile Selassie's regime and some officials were arrested. However six days after the investigation began the government collapsed when the Emperor was deposed on 12 September 1974.[182]
Wollo famine[edit]
Main article: 1958–1975 Wollo–Tigray famine
Famine—mostly in Wollo, north-eastern Ethiopia, as well as in some parts of Tigray—is estimated to have killed 40,000 to 80,000 Ethiopians[14][187] between 1972 and 1974. A BBC News report[188] has cited a 1973 estimate that 200,000 deaths occurred, based on a contemporaneous estimate from the Ethiopian Nutrition Institute. While this figure is still repeated in some texts and media sources, it was an estimate that was later found to be "over-pessimistic".[190] Although the region is infamous for recurrent crop failures and continuous food shortage and starvation risk, this episode was remarkably severe. A 1973 production of the ITV programme The Unknown Famine by Jonathan Dimbleby[191][192] relied on the unverified estimate of 200,000 dead,[188][193] stimulating a massive influx of aid while at the same time destabilizing Haile Selassie's regime.[187]
Against that background, a group of dissident army officers instigated a creeping coup against the emperor's faltering regime.  To guard against a public backlash in favour of Haile Selassie (who was still widely revered), they contrived to obtain a copy of The Unknown Famine that they intercut with images of Africa's grand old man presiding at a wedding feast in the grounds of his palace. Retitled The Hidden Hunger, this film noir was shown around the clock on Ethiopian television to coincide with the day that they finally summoned the nerve to seize the emperor himself.— Jonathan Dimbleby, "Feeding on Ethiopia's famine"[194]
Some reports suggest that the emperor was unaware of the famine's extent,[182][188] while others assert that he was well aware of it.[195][196] In addition to the exposure of attempts by corrupt local officials to cover up the famine from the imperial government, the Kremlin's depiction of Haile Selassie's Ethiopia as backwards and inept (relative to the purported utopia of Marxism–Leninism) contributed to the popular uprising that led to its downfall and the rise of Mengistu Haile Mariam.[197] The famine and its image in the media undermined the government's popular support, and Haile Selassie's once unassailable personal popularity fell.[198]
The crisis was exacerbated by military mutinies and high oil prices, the latter a result of the 1973 oil crisis. The international economic crisis triggered by the oil crisis caused the costs of imported goods, gasoline, and food to skyrocket, while unemployment spiked.[161]
Revolution[edit]
Main article: Ethiopian Revolution
In February 1974, four days of serious riots in Addis Ababa against a sudden economic inflation left five dead. The emperor responded by announcing on national television a reduction in petrol prices and a freeze on the cost of basic commodities. This calmed the public, but the promised 33% military wage hike was not substantial enough to pacify the army, which then mutinied, beginning in Asmara and spreading throughout the empire. This mutiny led to the resignation of Prime Minister Aklilu Habte-Wold on 27 February 1974.[199] Haile Selassie again went on television to agree to the army's demands for still greater pay, and named Endelkachew Makonnen as his new Prime Minister. Despite Endalkatchew's many concessions, discontent continued in March with a four-day general strike that paralyzed the nation.
Imprisonment[edit]
Main article: 1974 Ethiopian coup d'état
The deposition of Emperor Haile Selassie (above rear window) from the Jubilee Palace on 12 September 1974, marking the coup d'état's action on that day and the assumption of power by the Derg.
The Derg, a committee of low-ranking military officers and enlisted men, set up in June to investigate the military's demands, took advantage of the government's disarray to depose the 82-year-old Haile Selassie on 12 September.[200] General Aman Mikael Andom, a Protestant of Eritrean origin,[199] served briefly as provisional head of state pending the return of Crown Prince Asfa Wossen, who was then receiving medical treatment abroad. Haile Selassie was placed under house arrest briefly at the 4th Army Division in Addis Ababa.[199] At the same time, most of his family was detained at the late Duke of Harar's residence in the north of the capital. The last months of the emperor's life were spent in imprisonment, in the Grand Palace.[201] Reportedly, his mental condition was such that he believed he was still Emperor of Ethiopia.[citation needed]
Later, most of the imperial family was imprisoned in the Addis Ababa prison Kerchele, also known as "Alem Bekagne", or "I've had Enough of This World". On 23 November, 60 former high officials of the imperial government were executed by firing squad without trial,[202] which included Haile Selassie's grandson Iskinder Desta, a rear admiral, as well as General Andom and two former prime ministers.[201][203] These killings, known to Ethiopians as "Black Saturday", were condemned by Crown Prince Asfa Wossen; the Derg responded to his rebuke by revoking its acknowledgment of his imperial legitimacy, and announcing the end of the Solomonic dynasty.[202]
Death and interment[edit]
The tombs of Haile Selassie and his wife, Menen Asfaw, inside the Holy Trinity Cathedral in Addis Ababa
On 28 August 1975, state media reported that Haile Selassie had died on 27 August of "respiratory failure" following complications from a prostate examination followed up by a prostate operation.[204] Dr. Asrat Woldeyes denied that complications had occurred and rejected the government version of his death. The prostate operation in question apparently had taken place months before the state media claimed, and Haile Selassie had apparently enjoyed strong health in his last days.[205] In 1994, an Ethiopian court found several former military officers guilty of strangling the emperor in his bed in 1975. Three years after the military socialist Derg regime was overthrown[206] the court charged them with genocide and murder, claiming that it had obtained documents attesting to a high-level order from the military regime to assassinate Haile Selassie for leading a "feudal regime".[10] Documents have been widely circulated online showing the Derg's final assassination order and bearing the military regime's seal and signature.[207][208] The veracity of these documents has been corroborated by multiple former members of the military Derg regime.[209][210]
The Soviet-backed People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, the Derg's successor, fell in 1991. In 1992, Haile Selassie's bones were found under a concrete slab on the palace grounds,[211] Haile Selassie's coffin rested in Bhata Church for nearly a decade, near his great-uncle Menelik II's resting place.[212] On 5 November 2000, the Holy Trinity Cathedral in Addis Ababa gave him a funeral, but the government refused calls to declare the ceremony an official imperial funeral.[212]
Prominent Rastafari figures such as Rita Marley participated in the funeral, but most Rastafari rejected the event and refused to accept that the bones were Haile Selassie's remains. There is some debate within the Rastafari movement whether he actually died in 1975.[213]
Descendants[edit]
Prince Makonnen, son of Haile Selassie I
Haile Selassie had six children with Menen Asfaw: Princess Tenagnework, Crown Prince Asfaw Wossen, Princess Zenebework, Princess Tsehai, Prince Makonnen, and Prince Sahle Selassie.
There is some controversy about the maternity of Haile Selassie's eldest daughter, Princess Romanework. While the living members of the royal family state that Romanework is the eldest daughter of Empress Menen,[214] it has been asserted that Princess Romanework is actually the daughter of a previous union of the emperor with a Woizero Altayech.[215] This may be a nickname she used, as nobleman Blata Merse Hazen Wolde Kirkos, a contemporary source prominent in both the Imperial Court and the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, names her Woizero Woinetu Amede and mentions her attending the wedding of her daughter to Dejazmatch Beyene Merid in a firsthand account in his book about the years before the Italian occupation. The emperor's autobiography makes no mention of this previous marriage or having fathered children with anyone other than Empress Menen. However, he mentions the death of this daughter in captivity at Turin.
Prince Asfaw Wossen was first married to Princess Wolete Israel Seyoum and then following their divorce to Princess Medferiashwork Abebe. Prince Makonnen was married to Princess Sara Gizaw. Prince Sahle Selassie was married to Princess Mahisente Habte Mariam. Princess Tenagnework first married Ras Desta Damtew, and after she was widowed, married Ras Andargachew Messai. Princess Zenebework married Dejazmatch Haile Selassie Gugsa. Princess Tsehai married Lt. General Abiye Abebe.
A public rift between some of the descendants ensued when the late Emperor's Patek Philippe watch came up for auction in 2017. In the end it was sold for $2.9 million by leading international auction house Christie's.[216]
Rastafari messiah[edit]
 …Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.— Psalm 68:31
Today, Haile Selassie is worshipped as God incarnate[217] among some followers of the Rastafari movement (taken from Haile Selassie's pre-imperial name Ras—meaning Head, a title looking equivalent to Duke—Tafari Makonnen), which emerged in Jamaica during the 1930s under the influence of Leonard Howell, a follower of Marcus Garvey's "African Redemption" movement. He is viewed as the messiah who will lead the peoples of Africa and the African diaspora to freedom.[218] His official titles are Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah and King of Kings of Ethiopia, Lord of Lords and Elect of God, and his traditional lineage is thought to be from Solomon and Sheba.[219] These notions are perceived by Rastafari as confirmation of the return of the messiah in the prophetic Book of Revelation in the New Testament: King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah, and Root of David. Rastafari faith in the incarnate divinity of Haile Selassie[220] began after news reports of his coronation reached Jamaica,[221] particularly via the two Time magazine articles on the coronation the week before and the week after the event. Haile Selassie's own perspectives permeate the philosophy of the movement.[221][222]
In 1961, the Jamaican government sent a delegation composed of both Rastafari and non-Rastafari leaders to Ethiopia to discuss the matter of repatriation, among other issues, with the emperor. He reportedly told the Rastafari delegation (which included Mortimer Planno), "Tell the Brethren to be not dismayed, I personally will give my assistance in the matter of repatriation."[223]
Haile Selassie visited Jamaica on 21 April 1966, and approximately one hundred thousand Rastafari from all over Jamaica descended on Palisadoes Airport in Kingston to greet him.[221] Spliffs[224] and chalices[225] were openly[226] smoked, causing "a haze of ganja smoke" to drift through the air.[227][228][229] Haile Selassie arrived at the airport but was unable to come down the airplane's mobile steps, as the crowd rushed the tarmac. He then returned into the plane, disappearing for several more minutes. Finally, Jamaican authorities were obliged to request Ras Mortimer Planno, a well-known Rasta leader, to climb the steps, enter the plane, and negotiate the emperor's descent.[230] Planno re-emerged and announced to the crowd: "The Emperor has instructed me to tell you to be calm. Step back and let the Emperor land".[231] This day is widely held by scholars to be a major turning point for the movement,[232][233][234] and it is still commemorated by Rastafari as Grounation Day, the anniversary of which is celebrated as the second holiest holiday after 2 November, the emperor's Coronation Day.
From then on, as a result of Planno's actions, the Jamaican authorities were asked to ensure that Rastafari representatives were present at all state functions attended by the emperor,[233][234] and Rastafari elders also ensured that they obtained a private audience with the emperor,[233] where he reportedly told them that they should not emigrate to Ethiopia until they had first liberated the people of Jamaica. This dictum came to be known as "liberation before repatriation".
Haile Selassie defied expectations of the Jamaican authorities[235] and never rebuked the Rastafari for their belief in him as God. Instead, he presented the movement's faithful elders with gold medallions—the only recipients of such an honor on this visit.[236][237] During PNP leader (later Jamaican Prime Minister) Michael Manley's visit to Ethiopia in October 1969, the emperor allegedly still recalled his 1966 reception with amazement, and stated that he felt that he had to be respectful of their beliefs.[238] This was the visit when Manley received the Rod of Correction or Rod of Joshua as a present from the emperor, which is thought to have helped him to win the 1972 election in Jamaica.
Rita Marley, Bob Marley's wife, converted to the Rastafari faith after seeing Haile Selassie on his Jamaican trip. She claimed in interviews (and in her book No Woman, No Cry) that she saw a stigmata print on the palm of Haile Selassie's hand as he waved to the crowd, which resembled the markings on Christ's hands from being nailed to the cross—a claim that was not supported by other sources, but was used as evidence for her and other Rastafari to suggest that Haile Selassie I was indeed their messiah.[239] Rastafari became much better known throughout much of the world due to the popularity of Bob Marley.[240] Bob Marley's posthumously released song "Iron Lion Zion" refers to Haile Selassie.
Haile Selassie's position[edit]
In a 1967 recorded interview with the CBC, Haile Selassie denied his alleged divinity. In the interview Bill McNeil says: "there are millions of Christians throughout the world, your Imperial Majesty, who regard you as the reincarnation of Jesus Christ." Haile Selassie replied in his native language:
I have heard of that idea. I also met certain Rastafarians. I told them clearly that I am a man, that I am mortal, and that I will be replaced by the oncoming generation, and that they should never make a mistake in assuming or pretending that a human being is emanated from a deity.[241]
For many Rastafari the CBC interview is not interpreted as a denial of his divinity. According to Robert Earl Hood, Haile Selassie neither denied nor affirmed his divinity either way.[242] In Reggae Routes: The Story of Jamaican Music, Kevin Chang and Wayne Chen note:
It's often said, though no definite date or source is ever cited, that Haile Selassie himself denied his divinity. Former senator and Gleaner editor, Hector Wynter, tells of asking him, during his visit to Jamaica in 1966, when he was going to tell Rastafarians he was not God.  "Who am I to disturb their belief?" replied the emperor.[235][243]
After his return to Ethiopia, he dispatched Archbishop Abuna Yesehaq Mandefro to the Caribbean and according to Yesehaq this was done to help draw Rastafari and other West Indians to the Ethiopian church.[244][245] However some sources suggest that certain islanders and their leaders were resenting the services of their former colonial churches and vocalized their interest of establishing the Ethiopian church in the Caribbean to which the Emperor obliged.[246]
In 1969, Michael Manley visited the Emperor at his palace in Addis Ababa before his election as Prime Minister of Jamaica in 1972. Haile Selassie spoke about his visit to Jamaica in 1966 and told Manley that he was totally dumbfounded by the Rastafarians' beliefs but that he had to be respectful of them.[247]
In 1948, Haile Selassie donated 500 hectares of land at Shashamane, 250 kilometres (160 mi) south of Addis Ababa, to the Ethiopian World Federation Incorporated for the use of people of African descent who supported Ethiopia during the war, particularly those from the West.[248] Numerous Rastafari families settled there and still live as a community to this day.[249] Haile Selassie granted Rastafarians land on traditional Oromo domain hence today the Rastas are viewed by the locals as invaders.[250][251][252]
Titles and styles[edit]
Styles ofHaile Selassie I of EthiopiaReference styleHis Imperial MajestyAmharic: ግርማዊ; girmāwīSpoken styleYour Imperial MajestyAmharic: ጃንሆይ; djānhoilit. "O [esteemed] royal"Alternative styleOur Lord (familiar)Amharic: ጌቶቹ; getochulit. "Our master" (pl.)
Main article: List of titles and honours of Haile Selassie
23 July 1892 – 1 November 1905: Lij Tafari Makonnen[29][253]
1 November 1905 – 11 February 1917: Dejazmach Tafari Makonnen[29][34]
11 February 1917 – 7 October 1928: Le'ul-Ras Tafari Makonnen[33][37][254]
7 October 1928 – 2 November 1930: Negus Tafari Makonnen[255]
2 November 1930 – 12 September 1974: His Imperial Majesty Haile Selassie I, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Elect of God.[34][37][39][45][46][47]
National orders[edit]
 Chief Commander of the Order of the Star of Ethiopia (1909)[256]
 Grand Collar of the Order of Solomon (1930)[257][258]
 Grand Cordon of the Order of the Seal of Solomon[259][260]
 Grand Cordon with Collar of the Order of the Queen of Sheba[261]
 Grand Cordon of the Order of the Holy Trinity[262]
 Grand Cordon of the Order of Menelik II[263]
 Order of Fidelity[264]
Military ranks[edit]
Haile Selassie held the following ranks:
Field Marshal, Imperial Ethiopian Army[265][266]
Admiral of the Fleet, Imperial Ethiopian Navy[266]
Marshal of the Imperial Ethiopian Air Force[266]
Honorary Field Marshal, British Army, 20 January 1965[267][268][269]
In popular culture[edit]
In 1971, jazz pianist Mal Waldron released the song "Sieg Haile" (allusion to Sieg Heil) on his live album Black Glory.
William Saroyan wrote a short story about him titled "The Lion of Judah" in his 1971 book Letters from 74 rue Taitbout or Don't Go but If You Must Say Hello to Everybody.[citation needed]
In 2008, Man of the Millennium, a full-length feature film dedicated to Haile Selassie, was produced by an Ethiopian film-maker Tikher Teferra Kidane of Exodus Films, in collaboration with the Alaskan TV station Tanana Valley TV and 4th Avenue Films.[270][non-primary source needed]
Haile Selassie is Ethiopia's leader in the expansion pack of Civilization V: Gods & Kings.[citation needed]
In 2014 music artist Lupe Fiasco released a song named after Haile Selassie titled "Haile Selassie", which appears on his 2018 album Drogas Wave.
Haile Selassie is referred to in the song "In a Shanty in Old Shanty Town" by Johnny Long published in 1932.
Haile Selassie is referred to in the song "Mutilated Lips" by Ween from their album The Mollusk.
Haile Selassie is referred to in the song "Haille Sellase" by Propagandhi from their album How To Clean Everything.
A track titled "Haile Selassie" appears on Bright Eyes' 2011 album The People's Key.
In the movie Trading Places, Dan Aykroyd’s character Louis Winthorpe, III, says “I was Director of Cultural Events at the [fictional] Haile Selassie Pavilion.”
See also[edit]
Biography portal
Black Lions
List of people who have been considered deities
List of unsolved deaths
Bibliography of Haile Selassie
Notes[edit]
^ In exile from 2 May 1936 – 20 January 1941[1]
^ Translates to "Power of the Trinity".[2] 
^ English: /ˈhaɪli səˈlæsi, -ˈlɑːsi/[3]
^ Ge'ez ግርማዊ ቀዳማዊ አፄ ኃይለ ሥላሴ ሞዓ አንበሳ ዘእምነገደ ይሁዳ ንጉሠ ነገሥት ዘኢትዮጵያ ሰዩመ እግዚአብሔር; girmāwī ḳedāmāwī 'aṣē ḫayle śillāsē, mō'ā 'anbessā ze'imneggede yihudā niguse negest ze'ītyōṗṗyā, siyume 'igzī'a'bihēr.[48]
^ Bālemulu literally means "fully empowered" or "wholly authorised," thus distinguishing it from the general use of Enderase, that being a representative or lieutenant of the Emperor to fiefs or vassals, essentially a Governor-General or Viceroy, by which term provincial governors in the contemporary Imperial period, during Haile Selassie's reign, were referred.[68][69] 
^ Balcha Safo brought an army of ten thousand with him from Sidamo.[71] 
^ Balcha Safo's personal bodyguard numbered about five hundred.[71]
References[edit]
Citations[edit]
^ Talbot, David Abner (1966). Ethiopia: Liberation Silver Jubilee 1941–1966. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia: Ministry of Information. pp. 64–66.
^ Gates, Henry Louis, and Anthony Appiah, Africana: The Encyclopedia of the African and African American Experience. 1999, p. 902.
^ "Haile Selassie". Merriam-webster. Retrieved 24 April 2014..; "Haile Selassie". Dictionary. Reference. Retrieved 24 April 2014..
^ Page, Melvin Eugene; Sonnenburg, Penny M. (2003). Colonialism: an international, social, cultural, and political encyclopedia. Vol. 1. ABC-CLIO. p. 247. ISBN 978-1-57607-335-3.
^ Erlich, Haggai (2002), The Cross and the River: Ethiopia, Egypt, and the Nile.  Lynne Rienner Publishers.  ISBN 1-55587970-5, p. 192.
^ Murrell, p. 148
^ Ewing, William H.; Abdi, Beyene (1972). Consolidated Laws of Ethiopia Vol. I. Addis Ababa: The Faculty of Law Haile Sellassie I University. pp. 45–46.
^ Karsh, Efraim (1988), Neutrality and Small States. Routledge. ISBN 0-41500507-8, p. 112.
^ Salvano, Tadese Tele (2018). የደረግ አነሳስና (የኤርትራና ትግራይ እንቆቅልሽ ጦርነት) [The Derg Initiative (The Eritrean-Tigray Mysterious War)]. Tadese Tele Salvano. pp. 81–97. ISBN 978-0791596623.
^ a b "Ethiopian Court Hears How Emperor Was Killed". The Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved 6 November 2018.
^ "Rastafarian", Major religions ranked by size, Adherents, archived from the original on 16 August 2000{{citation}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link).
^ Barrett, Leonard E. (1988). The Rastafarians. Beacon Press. ISBN 978-0-8070-1039-6.
^ Meredith, Martin (2005), The Fate of Africa: From the Hopes of Freedom to the Heart of Despair. Public Affairs. ISBN 1-58648398-6, pp. 212–13.
^ a b c Rebellion and Famine in the North under Haile Selassie (PDF), Human Rights Watch.
^ a b Feener, Michael (2004). Islam in World Cultures: Comparative Perspectives. ABC-CLIO. p. 227. ISBN 9781576075166. Retrieved 23 February 2017.
^ a b Dimbleby, Jonathan (8 December 1998), "Feeding on Ethiopia's Famine", The Independent, UK  (taken from Chapter 3 of Evil Days: Thirty Years of War and Famine in Ethiopia Alexander de Waal (Africa Watch, 1991).
^ Davey, Melissa (13 February 2016), "Oromo children's books keep once-banned Ethiopian language alive", The Guardian, retrieved 14 February 2016
^ Language & Culture (PDF), archived (PDF) from the original on 9 October 2022
^ ETHIOPIANS: AMHARA AND OROMO, January 2017
^ Bender, M. L. (1976). Language in Ethiopia. London: Oxford University Press. pp. 187–190. ISBN 9780194361026.
^ Scholler, Heinrich; Brietzke, Paul H. (1976). Ethiopia: Revolution, Law and Politics. Munich: Weltforum-Verlag. p. 154. ISBN 3803901367.
^ Ewing, William H.; Abdi, Beyene (1972). Consolidated Laws of Ethiopia Vol. II. Addis Ababa: The Faculty of Law Haile Sellassie I University. p. 1105.
^ OROMO CONTINUE TO FLEE VIOLENCE, September 1981
^ Country Information Report ethiopia, 12 August 2020, archived from the original on 11 July 2013, retrieved 17 February 2021
^ Ethiopia. Status of Amharas, 1 March 1993
^ "Haile Selassie: Statue of former Ethiopian leader destroyed in London park". BBC News. 2 July 2020.
^ "Deadly protests erupt after Ethiopian singer killed". BBC News. 30 June 2020. Retrieved 1 July 2020.
^ Ethiopians Angered At Singer's Death Topple Statue, 30 June 2020, retrieved 30 June 2020
^ a b c d Selassie, Haile I (1976). My Life and Ethiopia's Progress: The Autobiography of Emperor Haile Selassie I, translated from Amharic by Edward Ullendorff. Great Britain: Oxford University Press. p. 20. ISBN 0197135897.
^ Copley, Gregory R. Ethiopia Reaches Her Hand Unto God: Imperial Ethiopia's Unique Symbols, Structures and Role in the Modern World. Published by Defense & Foreign Affairs, part of the International Strategic Studies Association, 1998. ISBN 1892998009. p.115
^ a b Bellizzi, Francesco; Wondim, Simeon; Feqade, Ras (2013). The Order of Coronation. Italy: Debre Zeyt Books. p. 97. ISBN 9788890890505.
^ a b c Copley, Gregory R. Ethiopia Reaches Her Hand Unto God: Imperial Ethiopia's Unique Symbols, Structures and Role in the Modern World. Published by Defense & Foreign Affairs, part of the International Strategic Studies Association, 1998. ISBN 1892998009. p.114
^ a b Selassie, Haile I (1976). My Life and Ethiopia's Progress: The Autobiography of Emperor Haile Selassie I, translated from Amharic by Edward Ullendorff. Great Britain: Oxford University Press. pp. 48–50. ISBN 0197135897.
^ a b c d Steffanson, Borg G.; Starrett, Ronald K. (1976). Documents on Ethiopian Politics Vol. I: The Decline of Menelik II to the Emergence of Ras Tafari, later known as Haile Selassie, 1910 - 1919. Salisbury, North Carolina: Documentary Publications. p. 133. ISBN 0897120086.
^ a b Murrell, pp. 172–3
^ Selassie 1999, vol. 2, p. xiii.
^ a b c d Asserate, Asfa-Wossen (2014). King of Kings: The Triumph and Tragedy of Emperor Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia. Berlin, Germany: Haus Publishing Ltd. p. 325. ISBN 978-1910376140.
^ Copley, Gregory R. Ethiopia Reaches Her Hand Unto God: Imperial Ethiopia's Unique Symbols, Structures and Role in the Modern World. Published by Defense & Foreign Affairs, part of the International Strategic Studies Association, 1998. ISBN 1892998009. p.117
^ a b c Vukotic, Afenegus Petar. "Newly Discovered Documents Reveal, Ras Tafari Crowned "Lord of Lords" in 1917". Rastafari Coalition. Retrieved 15 May 2020.
^ Steffanson, Borg G.; Starret, Ronald K. (1976). Documents on Ethiopian Politics Vol. II. North Carolina, U.S.: Documentary Publications. p. 112. ISBN 0897120086.
^ "Haile Selasie: 40 year anniversary of his death". African calendar. Africa Media Online.
^ Roberts, Neil (11 February 2015). Freedom as Marronage. University of Chicago Press. p. 175. ISBN 9780226201047. Retrieved 12 October 2015.
^ Murrell, p. 159.
^ Rubenson, Sven (July 1965). "The Lion of the Tribe of Judah Christian Symbol and/or Imperial Title". Journal of Ethiopian Studies. 3 (2): 85.
^ a b Rey, Charles F. (1935). The Real Abyssinia. New York City.: J. B. Lippincott Company. p. 117. ISBN 0837126568.
^ a b McPartlin, Joan (29 May 1954). "Boston to Welcome Ruler of Ethiopia". Boston Daily Globe.
^ a b Lee, V. (July 1983), "The Roots of Rastafari", Yoga Journal No. 51. ISSN 0191-0965, p. 18.
^ a b c Kasuka, Bridgette (2012). Prominent African Leaders Since Independence. Bankole Kamara Taylor. p. 19. ISBN 978-1-47004358-2.
^ Ghai, Yash P. (2000), Autonomy and Ethnicity: Negotiating Competing Claims in Multi-Ethnic States. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-52178642-8, p. 176.
^ Pétridès, S. Pierre (1963). Le Héros d'Adoua: Ras Makonnen, Prince d'Éthiopie. 8, rue Garancière, Paris: Librairie Plon. p. 299.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location (link)
^ Bridgette, Kasuka (2012). Prominent African Leaders Since Independence. Tanzania: New Africa Press. p. 19. ISBN 9781470043582.
^ Henze, Paul B (2001). Layers of time a history of Ethiopia. New York: Palgrave. p. 189.
^ Woodward, Peter (1994), Conflict and Peace in the Horn of Africa: federalism and its alternatives. Dartmouth Pub. Co. ISBN 1-85521486-5, p. 29.
^ Ryle, John. "Burying the Emperor". johnryle.com. Granta Magazine. Retrieved 8 March 2022.
^ Bailey, Wade (2007). Rastafari and It's Shamanist Origin's. Lulu.com. p. 10. ISBN 9781847993250.
^ Greenfield, Richard (1965). Ethiopia: A New Political History. United States of America: Frederick A. Praeger Inc. Publishers. pp. 147–148.
^ S. Pierre Pétridès, Le Héros d'Adoua. Ras Makonnen, Prince d'Éthiopie, p. 28
^ a b de Moor, Jaap, and Wesseling, H. L. (1989), Imperialism and War: Essays on Colonial Wars in Asia and Africa. Brill. ISBN 9004088342, p. 189.
^ Shinn, p. 265.
^ Selassie 1999, vol. 2, p. xii.
^ a b c Shinn, pp. 193–4.
^ a b Roberts, p. 712.
^ a b White, pp. 34–5.
^ "Modern era". History of Ethiopia. Solomonic crown heraldry. Archived from the original on 26 September 2010. Retrieved 12 September 2012.
^ Mockler, p. 387.
^ Lentakis, Michael B. (2004), Ethiopia: Land of the Lotus Eaters. Janus Pub. Co. ISBN 1-85756558-4, p. 41.
^ a b Shinn, p. 228.
^ Leslau, Wolf (1976). Concise Amharic Dictionary (English ed.). Wiesbaden, Germany: Otto Harrassowitz. pp. 15, 273, 332, 354. ISBN 3447017295.
^ Rubinkowska, Hanna (2005). Encyclopaedia Aethiopica vol. 2. Wiesbaden, Germany: Harrassowitz Verlag. p. 297. ISBN 3447052384.
^ Marcus, p. 126.
^ a b c d e Marcus, p. 127.
^ Marcus, Harold (1996), Haile Selassie I: The formative years, 1892–1936. Trenton: Red Sea Press. ISBN 1-56902007-8, pp. 36ff.
^ Clarence-Smith, W. G. The Economics of the Indian Ocean Slave Trade in the Nineteenth Century. 1989, p. 103.
^ Miers, Twentieth Century Solutions of the Abolition of Slavery (PDF), Yale, archived from the original (PDF) on 15 May 2011.
^ Brody, J. Kenneth (2000). The Avoidable War. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 0-76580498-0, p. 209.
^ Marcus, p. 123.
^ Gates and Appiah, Africana (1999), p. 698.
^ Rogers, Joel Augustus (1936). The Real Facts about Ethiopia, p. 27.
^ a b c Mockler, pp. 3–4.
^ "Ethiopian Ruler Wins Plaudits of Parisians". The New York Times. 17 May 1924. p. 3. Retrieved 13 December 2018..
^ "Ethiopian Royalties Don Shoes in Cairo". The New York Times. 5 May 1924. p. 3. Retrieved 13 December 2018.
^ Mockler, p. 4.
^ Nidel, Richard (2005), World Music: The Basics. Routledge. ISBN 0415968003, p. 56.
^ a b Roberts, p. 723.
^ Marcus, p. 129.
^ Mockler, p. 8.
^ Marcus, pp. 127–28.
^ Roberts, p. 724.
^ Sorenson, John (2001). Ghosts and Shadows: Construction of Identity and Community in an African Diaspora. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-80208331-5 p. 34.
^ Brockman, Norbert C. (1994), An African Biographical Dictionary. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 0-87436748-4, p. 381.
^ Henze, Paul B. (2000), Layers of Time: A History of Ethiopia. C. Hurst & Co. Publishers. ISBN 1-85065393-3, p. 205.
^ Del Boca, Angelo (2015). The Negus: The Life and Death of the Last King of Kings. Addis Ababa: Arada Books. p. 107. ISBN 978-9994482399.
^ a b Mockler, p. 12.
^ "Items" (PDF). The American Foreign Service Journal. VII (9): 327. September 1930. Retrieved 28 February 2023.
^ "2nd November ises, Requesting for a femail singer to sing the Queenof England for the Coronation". Retrieved 16 March 2023.
^ "Sewasew | United States of America, relations with".
^ Abyssinian ruler honors Americans. The New York Times. 24 October 1930.
^ Wallace, Irving (1965). "Everybody's Rover Boy", p. 113 in The Sunday Gentleman. New York: Simon & Schuster.
^ Coronation of Ras Tafari - 1930 | Movietone Moments | 2 Feb 18, retrieved 30 January 2022
^ "Emperor is Crowned in Regal Splendor at African Capital". The New York Times. 3 November 1930.
^ ABYSSINIA'S GUESTS RECEIVE COSTLY GIFTS. The New York Times. 12 November 1930.
^ "Emperor of Ethiopia Honors Bishop Freeman; Sends Gold-Encased Bible and Cross for Prayer". The New York Times. 27 January 1931.
^ Nahum, Fasil (1997), Constitution for a Nation of Nations: The Ethiopian Prospect. Red Sea Press. ISBN 1-56902051-5, p. 17.
^ a b Fasil (1997), Constitution for a Nation of Nations, p. 22.
^ Mockler, p. 61.
^ a b Carlton, Eric (1992), Occupation: The Policies and Practices of Military Conquerors. Taylor & Francis. ISBN 0-20314346-9, pp. 88–9.
^ a b Vandervort, Bruce (1998), Wars of Imperial Conquest in Africa, 1830–1914. Indiana University Press. ISBN 0-25321178-6, p. 158.
^ Churchill, Winston (1986). The Second World War. p. 165.
^ "Chapter 35 – We proclaim mobilization". Archived from the original on 11 June 2009. Retrieved 24 April 2014.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link) in Words of RasTafarI, Haile Selassie I. Jah-rastafari. Retrieved on 24 April 2014.
^ Baudendistel, Rainer (2006), Between Bombs And Good Intentions: The Red Cross And the Italo-Ethiopian War. Berghahn Books. ISBN 1-84545035-3, p. 168.
^ Young, John (1997), Peasant Revolution in Ethiopia. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-52102606-7, p. 51.
^ Garvey, Marcus, The Marcus Garvey and Universal Negro Improvement Association Papers. 1991, p. 685.
^ Mockler, p. 123.
^ Spencer, John (2006). Ethiopia at Bay: A Personal Account of the Haile Selassie Years. Tsehai Publishers. ISBN 1-59907000-6. p. 62.
^ Barker, A. J. (1936), The Rape of Ethiopia, p. 132
^ Spencer, John (2006). Ethiopia at Bay: A Personal Account of the Haile Selassie Years. Tsehai Publishers. ISBN 1-59907000-6. p. 72.
^ Moseley, Ray (1999), Mussolini's Shadow: The Double Life of Count Galeazzo Ciano. Yale University Press. ISBN 0-30007917-6, p. 27.
^ Jarrett-Macauley, Delia (1998), The Life of Una Marson, 1905–65, Manchester University Press, ISBN 0-71905284-X, pp. 102–3.
^ Safire 1997, pp. 297–8.
^ Safire 1997, p. 318.
^ Ferraro, Vincent. "Haile Selassie, "Appeal to the League of Nations", June 1936". Mtholyoke. Archived from the original on 22 October 2015. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ "Man of the Year". Time (magazine). 6 January 1936. Archived from the original on 29 April 2007.
^ "The Second Italo-Abyssinian War (1935–1936)". 8 March 2016.
^ Time 1937.
^ Elleray, D. Robert (1998). A Millennium Encyclopaedia of Worthing History. Worthing: Optimus Books. p. 119. ISBN 978-0-9533132-0-4.
^ "Selassie at Wimbledon". The Anglo-Ethiopian Society. Summer 2006. Retrieved 24 April 2014.
^ "London statue of Haile Selassie destroyed", NY Carib News, 3 July 2020, retrieved 4 July 2020
^ "Exiled emperor at home in hotel". Malvern Gazette. 18 October 2002. Retrieved 25 June 2011.
^ "Emperor's life in town is recalled in BBC film". Malvern Gazette. 14 February 2003. Retrieved 26 June 2011.
^ "Princesses were my school chums". Malvern Gazette. Newsquest Media Group. 5 May 2006. Retrieved 25 June 2011.
^ "Emperor will be remembered as part of civic week". Malvern Gazette. 6 June 2011. Retrieved 25 June 2011.
^ "Civic week to be launched with ceremony". Malvern Gazette. 21 June 2011. Retrieved 25 June 2011.
^ Selassie 1999, vol. 2, pp. 11–2..
^ Selassie 1999, vol. 2, pp. 26–27..
^ a b Selassie 1999, vol. 2, p. 25.
^ a b Ofcansky, Thomas P. and Berry, Laverle (2004), Ethiopia: A Country Study. Kessinger Publishing.  ISBN 1-41911857-9, pp. 60–61.
^ Selassie 1999, vol. 2, p. 27.
^ a b c Selassie 1999, vol. 2, pp. 40–42.
^ Selassie 1999, vol. 2, p. 170.
^ Shinn, p. 3.
^ Haber, Lutz, The Emperor Haile Selassie I in Bath 1936–1940, Occasional papers, The Anglo-Ethiopian Society.
^ "Haile Selassie: Blue plaques for emperor unveiled in Somerset". BBC News. 22 September 2019.
^ Barker, A. J. (1936), The Rape of Ethiopia, p. 156.
^ Selassie 1999, vol. 2, p. 165.
^ Hinks, Peter P.; McKivigan, John R. and Williams, R. Owen (2007). Encyclopedia of Antislavery and Abolition, Greenwood Publishing Group, p. 248. ISBN 0-313-33143-X.
^ Shinn, p. 201.
^ a b Shinn, pp. 140–1.
^ a b c d e Ofcansky, Thomas P. and Berry, Laverle (2004). Ethiopia A Country Study. Kessinger Publishing. ISBN 1419118579. pp. 63–4.
^ Willcox Seidman, Ann (1990), Apartheid, Militarism, and the U.S. Southeast. Africa World Press. ISBN 0865431515, p. 78.
^ a b c Watson, John H. (2000), Among the Copts. Sussex Academic Press. ISBN 978-1-902210-56-8, p. 56.
^ Shetler, Jan. "Building a "City of Peace" through Intercommunal Association Muslim-Christian Relations in Harar, Ethiopia, 1887-2009" (PDF). Manchester University.
^ Muehlenbeck, Philip (2012). Religion and the Cold War: A Global Perspective. Vanderbilt University Press. p. 147. ISBN 9780826518521.
^ Ibrahim, Abadir (8 December 2016). The Role of Civil Society in Africa's Quest for Democratization. Springer. p. 134. ISBN 9783319183831.
^ Vaughan, Sarah. Ethnicity and Power in Ethiopia. The University of Edinburgh. p. 235. Archived from the original on 9 October 2022.
^ Kulub. Encyclopedia Aethiopica.
^ Carmichael, Tim (January 1998). "Political Culture in Ethiopia's Provincial Administration: Haile Sellassie, Blata Ayele Gebre and the (Hareri) Kulub Movement of 1948". Personality and Political Culture in Modern Africa: Studies Presented to Professor Harold G Marcus, ed. By M. Page, S. Beswick, T. Carmichael and J. Spaulding. Boston University African Studies Center Press: 198–212.
^ Loimeier, Roman (2016). Islamic Reform in Twentieth-Century Africa. UK: Edinburgh University Press. p. 215. ISBN 9781474414913.
^ "Ethiopian Korean War Veterans", Geo cities, Yahoo!, archived from the original on 25 December 2008.
^ Nathaniel, Ras (2004), 50th Anniversary of His Imperial Majesty Haile Selassie I. Trafford Publishing. ISBN 1-41203702-6, p. 30.
^ "Ethiopia Administrative Change and the 1955 Constitution". Country studies. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ a b Mammo, Tirfe (1999). The Paradox of Africa's Poverty: The Role of Indigenous Knowledge.  The Red Sea Press. ISBN 1-56902049-3, p. 103.
^ Addis Zemen newspaper, 3 October 1947.
^ Zewde, Bahru (1991). Bahru Zewde, [London: James Currey, 1991], p. 196. "A History of Modern Ethiopia: 1855–1974". ISBN 0821409727.
^ "Peter Gill, p.26 & p.27. "Famine and Foreigners: Ethiopia Since Live Aid"" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 May 2018. Retrieved 4 March 2019.
^ Wolde Mariam, Mesfin (1986). Rural vulnerability to famine in Ethiopia: 1958-1977. Great Britain: Intermediate Technology Publications Ltd. pp. 35–36. ISBN 0946688036.
^ a b Zewde, Bahru (2001), A History of Modern Ethiopia. Oxford: James Currey. ISBN 0852557868, pp. 220–26.
^ a b Mammo, Tirfe (1999). The Paradox of Africa's Poverty: The Role of Indigenous Knowledge. The Red Sea Press. p. 100. ISBN 1569020493.
^ "General Assembly Resolutions 5th Session". United Nations. Retrieved 16 October 2007.
^ Haile, Semere (1987), "The Origins and Demise of the Ethiopia-Eritrea Federation", Issue: A Journal of Opinion, 15, pp. 9–17.
^ Ayele, Negussay. "In Search of the Historical DNA of the Eritrean Problem: Review Article on the Eritrean Affair (1941-1963) by Ambassador Zewde Retta". Ethiopians.com. Archived from the original on 2 November 2021. Retrieved 26 July 2022.
^ ""Ethiopia: New African Union Building and Kwame Statue" (Video)". Archived from the original on 15 June 2012. Retrieved 24 April 2014.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link).  Jimma Times.  29 January 2012
^ Brewer, Sam Pope (5 October 1963), Selassie, at U.N., Recalls 1936 Plea to League, The New York Times.
^ "Photo # 84497". Emperor of Ethiopia Addresses General Assembly. New York: United Nations. 4 October 1963.
^ Wikisource:Selassie's Address to the United Nations
^ Schwartz, Matthew S. "Why is There Such a Large Ethiopian Population in the Washington Region?". Wamu 88.5 American University Radio. Retrieved 14 March 2022.
^ "Head of State Visits". LBJ Presidential Library. Retrieved 8 November 2022.
^ "Johnson and Haile Selassie Confer". The New York Times. Associated Press. 15 February 1967. p. 2.
^ "Johnson Hails Selassie As an Ignored Prophet". The Washington Post. 14 February 1967. p. 2.
^ Schwab, Peter (January 1970). "The Tax System of Ethiopia". The American Journal of Economics and Sociology. 29 (1): 77–88. doi:10.1111/j.1536-7150.1970.tb03120.x. JSTOR 3485226.
^ "Country ratings and status, FIW 1973–2012" (XLS). Freedom House. 2012. Retrieved 22 August 2012.
^ ከበደ, በሪሁን (1 October 2000). የአፄ ኃይለሥላሴ ታሪክ. Addis Ababa: አርቲስቲክ ማተሚያ ቤት. p. 1255.
^ a b c Vukotic, Petar. "The Truth About Haile Selassie's Legacy". Rastafari Coalition. Archived from the original on 26 July 2022. Retrieved 26 July 2022.
^ "40th anniversary of Hazemo Massacre commemorated". Shabait. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. Retrieved 26 July 2007.
^ "Eritrean Martyrs' Day". Retrieved 26 September 2006.
^ Latt, Louise. "Eritrea Re-photographed: Landscape Changes in the Eritrean Highlands 1890–2004" (PDF). Laett Eritrea. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2006. Retrieved 26 September 2006.
^ "Dates in Eritrean History". Retrieved 26 September 2006.
^ a b De Waal, p. 58.
^ a b c Dickinson, Daniel, "The last of the Ethiopian emperors", BBC News, Addis Ababa, 12 May 2005.
^ De Waal.
^ De Waal (1991b), "3. Rebellion and famine in the north under Haile Selassie" (PDF), Evil Days, p. 58, n. 7; from .[189]
^ "The Unknown Famine in Ethiopia 1973". BBC. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ Dimbleby, Jonathan (28 July 2002). "Jonathan Dimbleby and the hidden famine". The Guardian. London. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ Eldridge, John Eric Thomas (1993), Getting the Message: News, Truth and Power. Psychology Press.  ISBN 0-41507983-7, p. 26.
^ Dimbleby, Jonathan (8 December 1998). "Feeding on Ethiopia's famine". The Independent. Retrieved 12 October 2015.
^ De Waal, p. 61.
^ Woodward, Peter (2003), The Horn of Africa: Politics and International Relations. I. B. Tauris. ISBN 1-86064870-3, p. 175.
^ Kumar, Krishna (1998). Postconflict Elections, Democratization, and International Assistance. Lynne Rienner Publishers. ISBN 1-55587778-8, p. 114.
^ "Government and Politics", Ethiopia (country study), Mongabay, retrieved 24 April 2014.
^ a b c Launhardt, Johannes (2005). Evangelicals in Addis Ababa (1919–1991). LIT Verlag. ISBN 3-82587791-4, pp. 239–40.
^ "Quiet coup ends reign of Selassie". Eugene Register-Guard. (Oregon). Associated Press. 12 September 1974. p. 1A.
^ a b Meredith, Martin (2005), The Fate of Africa: From the Hopes of Freedom to the Heart of Despair. Public Affairs, ISBN 1-58648398-6, p. 216.
^ a b Shinn, p. 44.
^ "Army rulers in Ethiopia execute 62". Eugene Register-Guard. (Oregon). Associated Press. 24 November 1974. p. 1A.
^ "Haile Selassie of Ethiopia Dies at 83". The New York Times. 28 August 1975. Retrieved 21 July 2007. Haile Selassie, the last emperor in the 3,000-year-old Ethiopian monarchy, who ruled for half a century before he was deposed in a military coup last September, died yesterday in a small apartment in his former palace. He was 83 years old. His death was played down by the military rulers who succeeded him in Addis Ababa, who announced it in a normally scheduled radio newscast there at 7 am They said that he had been found dead in his bed by a servant, and that the cause of death was probably related to the effects of a prostate operation Haile Selassie underwent two months ago.
^ Asfa-Wossen Asserate (2017). King of Kings: the triumph and tragedy of Emperor Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia. Haus Publishing. p. 348. ISBN 9781910376645. OCLC 987610656.
^ Reuters (15 December 1994). "Ex-Rulers of Ethiopia Charged With Strangling Haile Selassie". The New York Times. Retrieved 6 November 2018. {{cite news}}: |last= has generic name (help)
^ ""እንኳን ሰው ዝንብ አልገደልኩም!" ኮ/ል መንግሥቱ የ60ዎቹ ባለስልጣናት ግድያ 43ኛ ዓመት መታሰቢያ". Ethio Reference. 1 November 1974.
^ "The real story of the last days of Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia - Face2Face Africa". Face2Face Africa. 27 August 2018. Retrieved 6 November 2018.
^ Riste, Tesfaye (2009). Misekerenet Bebaale Seltanatu Andebet. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ Wogderess, Fikre Selassie (2014). Egnana Abiyotu. Tsehay Publishers. pp. 211, 310.
^ "An Imperial Burial for Haile Selassie, 25 Years After Death", The New York Times, 6 November 2000."Ethiopians Celebrate a Mass for Exhumed Haile Selassie", The New York Times, 1 March 1992.
^ a b Lorch, Donatella (31 December 1995).  "Ethiopia Deals With Legacy of Kings and Colonels".  The New York Times.
^ Edmonds, Ennis Barrington (2002), Rastafari: From Outcasts to Culture Bearers. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19803060-6, p. 55.
^ "Granddaughter Esther Selassie's website genealogy". Afronord.tripod.com. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ Mockler, p. xxvii.
^ "Auctions: Emperor Haile Selassie's Patek Philippe Ref. 2497 Sells For $2.9 Million". HODINKEE.
^ "Rastafarian beliefs". BBC. 9 October 2009. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ "The African Diaspora, Ethiopianism, and Rastafari". Smithsonian education. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ "Haile Selassie King of Kings, Conquering Lion of the tribe of Judah". Debate.uvm.edu. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ "Haile Selassie". Ethiopian History. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ a b c Owens, Joseph (1974), Dread, The Rastafarians of Jamaica. ISBN 0-435-98650-3.
^ "The Re-evolution of Rastafari". Rastafari speaks. 20 January 2003. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ Barrett, Leonard E. (1988). The Rastafarians. Beacon Press. pp. 118–. ISBN 978-0-8070-1039-6.
^ Christopher John Farley, Before the Legend: The Rise of Bob Marley, p. 145.
^ David Katz, People Funny Boy (Lee Perry biography), p. 41.
^ Murrell, p. 64.
^ David Howard, Kingston: A Cultural and Literary History, p. 176.
^ "The State Visit of Emperor Haile Selassie I". Jamaica-gleaner.com. Archived from the original on 9 December 2010. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ "Commemorating The Royal Visit by Ijahnya Christian", The Anguillian Newspaper, 22 April 2005.
^ White, pp. 15, 210, 211.
^ Bogues, Anthony (2003), Black Heretics, Black Prophets: Radical Political Intellectuals. Psychology Press. ISBN 0415943256, p. 189.
^ Bradley, Lloyd (2001), This Is Reggae Music: The Story of Jamaica's Music. Grove Press. ISBN 0802138284, pp. 192–93.
^ a b c Edmonds, Ennis Barrington (2002), Rastafari: From Outcasts to Culture Bearers. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0198030606. p. 86.
^ a b Habekost, Christian (1993), Verbal Riddim: The Politics and Aesthetics of African-Caribbean Dub Poetry. Rodopi. ISBN 9051835493, p. 83.
^ a b O'Brien Chang, Kevin; Chen, Wayne (1998). Reggae Routes: The Story of Jamaican Music. Temple University Press. p. 243. ISBN 978-1-56639-629-5.
^ "African Crossroads – Spiritual Kinsmen". Archived from the original on 15 January 2008. Retrieved 1 January 2008.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link) Dr. Ikael Tafari, The Daily Nation, 24 December 2007.
^ White, p. 211.
^ Funk, Jerry  (2007), Life Is an Excellent Adventure. Trafford Publishing. ISBN 1412215005, p. 149.
^ Marley, Rita (2004). No Woman No Cry: My Life with Bob Marley. Hyperion. p. 43. ISBN 978-0-7868-6867-4.
^ "Bob Marley the Devoted Rastafarian!". Rasta-man-vibration.com. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ Spencer, William David (1998). Dread Jesus. SPCK Publishing. p. 44. ISBN 978-0-28105101-4.
^ Hood, Robert Earl (January 1990). Must God Remain Greek?: Afro Cultures and God-talk. Fortress Press. pp. 93–. ISBN 978-0-8006-2449-1.
^ Crewe, Quentin (1987). Touch the Happy Isles: A Journey through the Caribbean. London: Michael Joseph Ltd. p. 286. ISBN 0718128222.
^ "Archbishop Abuna Yesehaq Interview". YouTube. Archived from the original on 28 October 2021. Retrieved 2 January 2021.
^ "Ethiopians in D.C. Region Mourn Archbishop's Death". The Washington Post. 13 January 2006.
^ Workneh, Fikre Mariam (31 December 2018). "Abune Tewophilos and Emperor Haile Selassie I: Their Invaluable Contributions to the Ethiopian Orthodox Church". ecadforum.com. ECADF. Retrieved 2 January 2021.
^ Funk, Jerry (2003). Life Is an Excellent Adventure: An Irreverent Personal Odyssey. Victoria, Canada: CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. pp. 148–150. ISBN 1412008484.
^ "A Tale of Two Nations". ethiopianworldfederation.org. The Ethiopian World Federation Incorporated. Retrieved 14 March 2022.
^ "The History and Location of the Shashamane Settlement Community Development Foundation, Inc., USA". Shashamane. Archived from the original on 25 May 2011. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ Price, Charles. Review: Erin C. Macleod Visions of Zion: Ethiopians and Rastafari in the Search for the Promised Land. University of Chicago Press. p. 223. doi:10.1086/683071. JSTOR 10.1086/683071. S2CID 162427664.
^ Summers, Chris. "The Rastafarians' flawed African 'promised land'". BBC News.
^ Gomes, Shelene (2018). "Counter-Narratives of Belonging: Rastafari in the Promised Land". The Global South. Indiana University Press. 12 (1): 115. doi:10.2979/globalsouth.12.1.07. JSTOR 10.2979/globalsouth.12.1.07. S2CID 164637705.
^ Vestal, Theodore M. (2011). The Lion of Judah in the New World: Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia and the Shaping of Americans' Attitudes Toward Africa. United States: Praeger. p. 19. ISBN 9780313386206.
^ Selassie, Haile I (1976). My Life and Ethiopia's Progress: The Autobiography of Emperor Haile Selassie I, translated from Amharic by Edward Ullendorff. Great Britain: Oxford University Press. p. 155. ISBN 0197135897.
^ Selassie, Haile I (1976). My Life and Ethiopia's Progress: The Autobiography of Emperor Haile Selassie I, translated from Amharic by Edward Ullendorff. Great Britain: Oxford University Press. p. 172. ISBN 0197135897.
^ ከበደ, በሪሁን (21 September 1993). የአፄ ኃይለሥላሴ ታሪክ. Addis Ababa: አርቲስቲክ ማተሚያ ቤት. p. 903.
^ Religious, Traditional & Ceremonial. The Official Website of The Crown Council of Ethiopia. The Crown Council of Ethiopia. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
^ ከበደ, በሪሁን (21 September 1993). የአፄ ኃይለሥላሴ ታሪክ. Addis Ababa: አርቲስቲክ ማተሚያ ቤት. p. 891.
^ Religious, Traditional & Ceremonial. The Official Website of The Crown Council of Ethiopia. The Crown Council of Ethiopia. Retrieved 2 January 2021.
^ ከበደ, በሪሁን (21 September 1993). የአፄ ኃይለሥላሴ ታሪክ. Addis Ababa: አርቲስቲክ ማተሚያ ቤት. p. 893.
^ ከበደ, በሪሁን (21 September 1993). የአፄ ኃይለሥላሴ ታሪክ. Addis Ababa: አርቲስቲክ ማተሚያ ቤት. pp. 895–897.
^ ከበደ, በሪሁን (21 September 1993). የአፄ ኃይለሥላሴ ታሪክ. Addis Ababa: አርቲስቲክ ማተሚያ ቤት. p. 899.
^ ከበደ, በሪሁን (21 September 1993). የአፄ ኃይለሥላሴ ታሪክ. Addis Ababa: አርቲስቲክ ማተሚያ ቤት. p. 901.
^ "Mr. and Mrs". Jet Magazine. VI (2): 23. 20 May 1954. Retrieved 9 April 2021.
^ Copley, Gregory R. Ethiopia Reaches Her Hand Unto God: Imperial Ethiopia's Unique Symbols, Structures and Role in the Modern World. Published by Defense & Foreign Affairs, part of the International Strategic Studies Association, 1998. ISBN 1892998009. p.119
^ a b c Ewing, William H.; Abdi, Beyene (1972). Consolidated Laws of Ethiopia Vol. I. Addis Ababa: The Faculty of Law Haile Sellassie I University. p. 261.
^ "The London Gazette, Issue: 43567 Page: 1235. Retrieved op 17 January 2017".
^ Copley, Gregory R. (1998). Ethiopia Reaches Her Hand unto God: Imperial Ethiopia's Unique Symbols, Structures and Role in the Modern World. Defense & Foreign Affairs, part of the International Strategic Studies Association. p. 195. ISBN 1892998009.
^ "Ethiopia welcomes the Queen: Archive, 2 February 1965". TheGuardian.com. 2 February 2016.
^ "'Man of the Millennium' – Message from the Director". Archived from the original on 1 August 2008. Retrieved 3 October 2014.
Sources[edit]
Marcus, Harold G. (1994). A History of Ethiopia. London: University of California Press. p. 316. ISBN 978-0-520-22479-7.
Mockler, Anthony (2003). Haile Selassie's War. Signal Books. ISBN 978-1-90266953-3.
Murrell, Nathaniel Samuel; Spencer, William David; McFarlane, Adrian Anthony (1998). Chanting Down Babylon: The Rastafari Reader. Temple University Press. ISBN 978-1-56639584-7.
Roberts, Andrew Dunlop (1986). The Cambridge History of Africa: From 1905 to 1940. Vol. 7. Cambridge: Press Syndicate of the University of Cambridge. ISBN 978-0-52122505-2.
Safire, William (1997), Lend Me Your Ears: Great Speeches in History, W.W. Norton, ISBN 978-0-39304005-0.
Selassie, Haile I (1999), My Life and Ethiopia's Progress: The Autobiography of Emperor Haile Selassie I, translated from Amharic by Edward Ullendorff, New York: Frontline Books, ISBN 978-0-948390-40-1.
Shinn, David Hamilton; Ofcansky, Thomas P. (2004). Historical Dictionary of Ethiopia. Scarecrow Press. ISBN 978-0-81086566-2.
"Distressed Negus". Time Magazine. 15 November 1937. Archived from the original on 24 May 2007. Retrieved 19 January 2010.
De Waal, Alexander (1991). Evil Days: Thirty Years of War and Famine in Ethiopia (PDF). Human Rights Watch. ISBN 978-1-56432038-4.
White, Timothy, ed. (2006). Catch a Fire: The Life of Bob Marley. Henry Holt & Co. ISBN 978-0-80508086-5.
Further reading[edit]
Henze, Paul B (2000), ""The Rise of Haile Selassie: Time of Troubles, Regent, Emperor, Exile" and "Ethiopia in the Modern World: Haile Selassie from Triumph to Tragedy"", Layers of Time: A History of Ethiopia, New York: Palgrave, ISBN 978-0-312-22719-7.
Haile Selassie I: Ethiopia's Lion of Judah, 1979, ISBN 0-88229-342-7
Haile Selassie's war: the Italian-Ethiopian Campaign, 1935–1941, 1984, ISBN 0-394-54222-3
Haile Selassie, western education, and political revolution in Ethiopia, 2006, ISBN 978-1-934043-20-2
King of Kings: the triumph and tragedy of Emperor Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia, 2015, ISBN 978-1-910376-14-0
Mosley, Leonard, Haile Selassie: The Conquering Lion. Prentice Hall 1965 LCCN 65-11882
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Haile Selassie I.
Wikisource has original works by or about:Haile Selassie I
Wikiquote has quotations related to Haile Selassie.
Ethiopian Treasures – Emperor Haile Selassie I
Imperial Crown Council of Ethiopia
Speech to the League of Nations, June 1936 Archived 22 October 2015 at the Wayback Machine (full text)
Rare and Unseen: Haile Selassie Archived 13 December 2011 at the Wayback Machine – slideshow by Life magazine
Marcus Garvey's prophecy of Haile Selassie I as the returned messiah
Haile Selassie I and the Italo-Ethiopian war
Haile Selassie I, the Later Years
A critical look at the reign of Emperor Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia
BBC article, memories of his personal servant
"His Imperial Majesty, Emperor Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia visits Jamaica", Watch News Reel (video), 21 April 1966, archived from the original on 14 March 2008, retrieved 17 September 2006
Ba Beta Kristiyan Haile Selassie I – The Church of Haile Selassie I
Haile Selassie I Speaks -Text & Audio-
Collection by Martin Rikli in 1935–1936, including photos of Haile Selassie, open access through the University of Florida Digital Collections
The Emperor's Clothes
A History of Ethiopia
Newspaper clippings about Haile Selassie in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
Haile Selassie House of SolomonBorn: 23 July 1892 Died: 27 August 1975
Regnal titles
Preceded byZewditu I
 Emperor of Ethiopia 2 November 1930 – 12 September 1974
Monarchy abolished 
Titles in pretence
Loss of titleCommunist take-over
— TITULAR — Emperor of Ethiopia 12 September 1974 – 27 August 1975
Succeeded byCrown Prince Amha Selassie
vte Emperors of Ethiopia (list)Family treeZagwe dynasty(1137–1270)
Mara Takla Haymanot
Tatadim
Jan Seyum
Germa Seyum
Yemrehana Krestos
Kedus Harbe
Gebre Mesqel Lalibela
Na'akueto La'ab
Yetbarak
Solomonic dynasty(1270–1632)
Yekuno Amlak
Yagbe'u Seyon (Salomon I)
Sons: Senfa Ared IV
Hezba Asgad
Qedma Asgad
Jin Asgad
Saba Asgad
Wedem Arad
Amda Seyon I
Newaya Krestos
Newaya Maryam
Dawit I
Tewodros I
Yeshaq I
Andreyas
Takla Maryam
Sarwe Iyasus
Amda Iyasus
Zara Yaqob (Kwestantinos I)
Baeda Maryam I
Eskender (Kwestantinos II)
Amda Seyon II
Na'od
Dawit II
Gelawdewos
Menas
Sarsa Dengel
Yaqob
Za Dengel
Yaqob
Susenyos I
Gondarine period(1632–1769)
Fasilides
Yohannes I
Iyasu the Great
Tekle Haymanot I
Tewoflos
Yostos
Dawit III
Bakaffa
Iyasu II
Iyoas I
Era of the Princes(1769–1855)
Yohannes II
Tekle Haymanot II
Susenyos II
Tekle Haymanot II
Salomon II
Tekle Giyorgis I
Iyasu III
Tekle Giyorgis I
Hezqeyas
Tekle Giyorgis I
Baeda Maryam II
Tekle Giyorgis I
Salomon III
Yonas
Tekle Giyorgis I
Salomon III
Demetros
Tekle Giyorgis I
Demetros
Egwale Seyon
Iyoas II
Gigar
Baeda Maryam III
Gigar
Iyasu IV
Gebre Krestos
Sahle Dengel
Gebre Krestos
Sahle Dengel
Yohannes III
Sahle Dengel
Yohannes III
Sahle Dengel
Yohannes III
Sahle Dengel
Modern Ethiopia(1855–1974)
Tewodros II
Tekle Giyorgis II
Yohannes IV
Menelik II
Lij Iyasu1
Zewditu
Haile Selassie2
Amha Selassie1 3
1 Never crowned. 2 Between 1936–1941, Haile Selassie went into exile following the Second Italo-Ethiopian War. During that time, the imperial title was claimed by King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy. 3 Emperor-in-exile.
vteChief ministers (1909–1943) / Prime ministers of Ethiopia (since 1943)Ethiopian Empire (1173–1974)
Habte Giyorgis
Tafari
Wolde
Makonnen
Abebe
Imru*
Aklilu
Endelkachew
Mikael
Provisional Military Government of Socialist Ethiopia (1974–1987)
post abolished
People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (1987–1991)
Fikre
Hailu*
Tesfaye*
Transitional Government of Ethiopia (1991–1995)
Tamrat‡
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (since 1995)
Meles
Hailemariam
Abiy
‡ Interim
* Acting
vteChairpersons of the Organisation of African Unity and the African UnionOrganisation ofAfrican Unity
Selassie
Nasser
Nkrumah
Ankrah
Selassie
Mobutu
Boumédiène
Ahidjo
Kaunda
Daddah
Hassan II
Gowon
Barre
Amin
Ramgoolam
Bongo
Nimeiry
Tolbert
Senghor
Stevens
Moi
Mengistu
Nyerere
Diouf
Nguesso
Kaunda
Traoré
Mubarak
Museveni
Babangida
Diouf
Mubarak
Ben Ali
Meles
Biya
Mugabe
Compaoré
Bouteflika
Eyadéma
Chiluba
Mwanawasa
African Union
Mbeki
Chissano
Obasanjo
Nguesso
Kufuor
Kikwete
Gaddafi
Mutharika
Obiang
Boni
Hailemariam
Abdel Aziz
Mugabe
Déby
Condé
Kagame
Sisi
Ramaphosa
Tshisekedi
Sall
Assoumani
vtePan-AfricanismIdeologyVariants
African nationalism
African socialism
Afrocentrism
Black nationalism
Garveyism
Nkrumaism
Sankarism
Uhuru Movement
Zikism
Concepts
African century
Black power
Négritude
Ubuntu
Ujamaa
United States of Africa
ProponentsPoliticians
Dennis Akumu
Nnamdi Azikiwe
Amílcar Cabral
David Comissiong
Jean-Jacques Dessalines
Anténor Firmin
Muammar Gaddafi
Marcus Garvey
Alieu Ebrima Cham Joof
Kenneth Kaunda
Modibo Keïta
Jomo Kenyatta
Toussaint Louverture
Patrice Lumumba
Samora Machel
Ochola Ogaye Mak'Anyengo
Thabo Mbeki
Tom Mboya
Robert Mugabe
Abdias do Nascimento
Gamal Abdel Nasser
Kwame Nkrumah
Julius Nyerere
John Nyathi Pokela
Thomas Sankara
Ahmed Sékou Touré
Haile Selassie
Robert Sobukwe
I. T. A. Wallace-Johnson
Others
Marimba Ani
Molefi Kete Asante
Steve Biko
Edward Wilmot Blyden
Stokely Carmichael
Aimé Césaire
John Henrik Clarke
Martin R. Delany
Cheikh Anta Diop
W. E. B. Du Bois
Frantz Fanon
Amy Ashwood Garvey
John G. Jackson
Leonard Jeffries
Yosef Ben-Jochannan
Maulana Karenga
Alice Kinloch
Fela Kuti
Malcolm X
Archie Mafeje
Ali Mazrui
Zephania Mothopeng
George Padmore
Motsoko Pheko
Runoko Rashidi
Paul Robeson
Randall Robinson
Walter Rodney
Burning Spear
Issa Laye Thiaw
Frances Cress Welsing
Henry Sylvester Williams
Amos N. Wilson
Omali Yeshitela
OrganizationsEducational
African Leadership Academy
African Leadership University
Political
African Unification Front
African Union
All-African People's Revolutionary Party
All-African Trade Union Federation
Conseil de l'Entente
Convention People's Party
East African Community
Economic Freedom Fighters
First Pan-African Conference
International African Service Bureau
Organisation of African Trade Union Unity
Organisation of African Unity
Pan African Association
Pan-African Freedom Movement for East and Central Africa
Pan-African Congress
Pan Africanist Congress of Azania
Popular and Social League of the Great Sahara Tribes
Rassemblement Démocratique Africain
Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League
ZANU–PF
Symbols
Black Star of Africa
Le Marron Inconnu
Lion of Judah
Pan-African colours
Pan-African flag
Dynamics
Ethnic groups of Africa
Languages of Africa
Religion in Africa
Conflicts in Africa
Related
African philosophy
African-American leftism
Africanization
All-African Peoples' Conference
East African Federation
Kwanzaa
Union of African States
United States of Africa
United States of Latin Africa
Year of Africa
 Pan-Africanism category
 Africa category
 Pan-Africanism portal
 Africa portal
vteTime Persons of the Year1927–1950
Charles Lindbergh (1927)
Walter Chrysler (1928)
Owen D. Young (1929)
Mohandas Gandhi (1930)
Pierre Laval (1931)
Franklin D. Roosevelt (1932)
Hugh S. Johnson (1933)
Franklin D. Roosevelt (1934)
Haile Selassie (1935)
Wallis Simpson (1936)
Chiang Kai-shek / Soong Mei-ling (1937)
Adolf Hitler (1938)
Joseph Stalin (1939)
Winston Churchill (1940)
Franklin D. Roosevelt (1941)
Joseph Stalin (1942)
George Marshall (1943)
Dwight D. Eisenhower (1944)
Harry S. Truman (1945)
James F. Byrnes (1946)
George Marshall (1947)
Harry S. Truman (1948)
Winston Churchill (1949)
The American Fighting-Man (1950)
1951–1975
Mohammed Mosaddeq (1951)
Elizabeth II  (1952)
Konrad Adenauer (1953)
John Foster Dulles (1954)
Harlow Curtice (1955)
Hungarian Freedom Fighters (1956)
Nikita Khrushchev (1957)
Charles de Gaulle (1958)
Dwight D. Eisenhower (1959)
 U.S. Scientists: George Beadle / Charles Draper / John Enders / Donald A. Glaser / Joshua Lederberg / Willard Libby / Linus Pauling / Edward Purcell / Isidor Rabi / Emilio Segrè / William Shockley / Edward Teller / Charles Townes / James Van Allen / Robert Woodward  (1960)
John F. Kennedy (1961)
Pope John XXIII (1962)
Martin Luther King Jr. (1963)
Lyndon B. Johnson (1964)
William Westmoreland (1965)
The Generation Twenty-Five and Under (1966)
Lyndon B. Johnson (1967)
 The Apollo 8 Astronauts: William Anders / Frank Borman / Jim Lovell  (1968)
The Middle Americans (1969)
Willy Brandt (1970)
Richard Nixon (1971)
Henry Kissinger / Richard Nixon (1972)
John Sirica (1973)
King Faisal (1974)
 American Women: Susan Brownmiller / Kathleen Byerly / Alison Cheek / Jill Conway / Betty Ford / Ella Grasso / Carla Hills / Barbara Jordan / Billie Jean King / Susie Sharp / Carol Sutton / Addie Wyatt  (1975)
1976–2000
Jimmy Carter (1976)
Anwar Sadat (1977)
Deng Xiaoping (1978)
Ayatollah Khomeini (1979)
Ronald Reagan (1980)
Lech Wałęsa (1981)
The Computer (1982)
Ronald Reagan / Yuri Andropov (1983)
Peter Ueberroth (1984)
Deng Xiaoping (1985)
Corazon Aquino (1986)
Mikhail Gorbachev (1987)
The Endangered Earth (1988)
Mikhail Gorbachev (1989)
George H. W. Bush (1990)
Ted Turner (1991)
Bill Clinton (1992)
 The Peacemakers: Yasser Arafat / F. W. de Klerk / Nelson Mandela / Yitzhak Rabin  (1993)
Pope John Paul II (1994)
Newt Gingrich (1995)
David Ho (1996)
Andrew Grove (1997)
Bill Clinton / Ken Starr (1998)
Jeff Bezos (1999)
George W. Bush (2000)
2001–present
Rudolph Giuliani (2001)
 The Whistleblowers: Cynthia Cooper / Coleen Rowley / Sherron Watkins  (2002)
The American Soldier (2003)
George W. Bush (2004)
 The Good Samaritans: Bono / Bill Gates / Melinda Gates  (2005)
You (2006)
Vladimir Putin (2007)
Barack Obama (2008)
Ben Bernanke (2009)
Mark Zuckerberg (2010)
The Protester (2011)
Barack Obama (2012)
Pope Francis (2013)
 Ebola Fighters: Dr. Jerry Brown / Dr. Kent Brantly /  Ella Watson-Stryker / Foday Gollah / Salome Karwah  (2014)
Angela Merkel (2015)
Donald Trump (2016)
The Silence Breakers (2017)
 The Guardians: Jamal Khashoggi / Maria Ressa / Wa Lone / Kyaw Soe Oo / Staff of The Capital  (2018)
Greta Thunberg (2019)
Joe Biden / Kamala Harris (2020)
Elon Musk (2021)
Volodymyr Zelenskyy / Spirit of Ukraine (2022)
vteRastafariMain doctrines
Jah
Cannabis use
Dreadlocks
Ital
Iyaric
Lion of Judah
Livity
Zion
Central figures
Haile Selassie I
Jesus
Menen Asfaw
Marcus Garvey
Key scriptures
Bible
Kebra Nagast
My Life and Ethiopia's Progress
The Promised Key
Holy Piby
Royal Parchment Scroll of Black Supremacy
Mansions
Bobo Ashanti
Nyabinghi
Twelve Tribes of Israel
Festivals
Shashamane
Grounation Day
Reasoning
Notable individuals
Leonard Howell
Joseph Hibbert
Archibald Dunkley
Mortimer Planno
Vernon Carrington
Charles Edwards
Bob Marley
Peter Tosh
Society
Relation to Judaism
Persecution
In the United States
Related
Chalice
Ethiopian Christianity
Ites Gold and Green
Rastacap
Reggae
Roots reggae
Authority control International
FAST
ISNI
VIAF
National
Norway
Spain
2
France
BnF data
Catalonia
Germany
Israel
United States
Sweden
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Australia
Greece
Netherlands
Poland
Vatican
Academics
CiNii
Artists
MusicBrainz
People
Deutsche Biographie
Trove
Other
NARA
SNAC
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Haile_Selassie&oldid=1172896338"
Categories: Haile Selassie1892 births1975 deaths20th-century emperors of Ethiopia20th-century murdered monarchs1975 murders in EthiopiaChairpersons of the African UnionChristian messianismBurials at Holy Trinity Cathedral (Addis Ababa)Deified monarchsEthiopian anti-communistsEthiopian Oriental Orthodox ChristiansEthiopian Orthodox ChristiansEthiopian pan-AfricanistsEthiopian princesGovernments in exile during World War IILeaders ousted by a coupMarshals of the air forceOriental Orthodox monarchsPeople from Addis AbabaPeople executed by EthiopiaRastafariMonarchs of EthiopiaForeign ministers of EthiopiaSolomonic dynastyWorld War II political leadersHeads of government who were later imprisonedDeaths by strangulationChief Commanders of the Legion of MeritChiefs of the Order of the Golden Heart of KenyaDethroned monarchsExtra Knights Companion of the GarterGrand Commanders of the Order of the Federal RepublicGrand Cordons of the Order of ValourGrand Cross of the Legion of HonourGrand Crosses of the Order of the Sun of PeruGrand Crosses of the Order of Christ (Portugal)Grand Crosses of the Order of AvizGrand Crosses of the Order of Saint James of the SwordGrand Crosses Special Class of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of GermanyHonorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St GeorgeHonorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the BathHonorary Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian OrderKnights Grand Cross of the Military Order of WilliamKnights of the Order of Pope Pius IXMonarchs who abdicatedPeople murdered in EthiopiaPeople of the Eritrean War of IndependencePeople of the Second Italo-Ethiopian WarPeople from Oromia RegionRecipients of Hilal-i-PakistanRecipients of the National Order of VietnamRecipients of the Order of Merit for National FoundationRecipients of the Order of Polonia RestitutaRecipients of the Order of Saints Maurice and LazarusRecipients of the Order of the Liberator General San MartinRecipients of the Order of the Star of GhanaRecipients of the Order of the White Eagle (Poland)Time Person of the YearUnsolved deathsControversies in EthiopiaRecipients of orders, decorations, and medals of EthiopiaRecipients of the Order of the Republic (Sudan)Hidden categories: Pages that use PhonosArticles containing Ge'ez-language textCS1 maint: unfit URLCS1 maint: locationCS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyCS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknownCS1 errors: generic nameCS1 maint: location missing publisherArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from April 2023Instances of Lang-gez using second unnamed parameterAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2019Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from August 2016Articles with unsourced statements from February 2023Articles needing additional references from September 2017All articles needing additional referencesArticles with unsourced statements from July 2022Articles with unsourced statements from March 2022Articles containing Amharic-language textArticles with unsourced statements from February 2021Commons category link is on WikidataWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with FAST identifiersArticles with ISNI identifiersArticles with VIAF identifiersArticles with BIBSYS identifiersArticles with BNE identifiersArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with CANTICN identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with Libris identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with NLA identifiersArticles with NLG identifiersArticles with NTA identifiersArticles with PLWABN identifiersArticles with VcBA identifiersArticles with CINII identifiersArticles with MusicBrainz identifiersArticles with DTBIO identifiersArticles with Trove identifiersArticles with NARA identifiersArticles with SNAC-ID identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 30 August 2023, at 00:52 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width