Competitiveness (Economics) Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Competitiveness (Economics)25,927 FollowersRecent papers in Competitiveness (Economics)Top PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleThe Strategy BookThinking strategically is what separates managers and leaders. Learn the fundamentals about how to create winning strategy and lead your team to deliver it. From understanding what strategy can do for you, through to creating a strategy... moreThinking strategically is what separates managers and leaders. Learn the fundamentals about how to create winning strategy and lead your team to deliver it. From understanding what strategy can do for you, through to creating a strategy and engaging others with strategy, this book offers practical guidance and expert tips. It is peppered with punchy, memorable examples from real leaders winning (and losing) with real world strategies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Max Mckeown•  8  Entrepreneurship, Innovation statistics, Leadership, Competitiveness (Economics)Análise da competitividade das exportações gaúchas de carne de frango: 1997 - 2011Nos últimos anos o mundo presenciou uma demanda crescente por proteínas de origem animal. Esta demanda contribuiu para o a ampliação de diversas cadeias produtivas em muitas regiões. Neste contexto, a cadeia produtiva de frangos de corte,... moreNos últimos anos o mundo presenciou uma demanda crescente por proteínas de origem animal. Esta demanda contribuiu para o a ampliação de diversas cadeias produtivas em muitas regiões. Neste contexto, a cadeia produtiva de frangos de corte, presente no estado do Rio Grande do Sul, passou a ser uma das principais do agronegócio gaúcho e contribuir significativamente para a geração de empregos, renda e divisas internacionais. Em função disto, o objetivo da presente pesquisa foi analisar os níveis de competitividade do segmento de exportação de carne de frango do Rio Grande do Sul, uma vez que esta é uma das condições para a consolidação e ampliação do espaço que a cadeia ocupa atualmente. Calculou-se o Índice de Vantagem Comparativa Reveladas (IVCR), apresentado por Balassa (1965) e a partir dele analisou-se a estrutura das exportações de carne de frango, originadas no Rio Grande do Sul, no período 1997 – 2011. Confirmou-se a hipótese de que as exportações gaúchas são competitivas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nilson Luiz  Costa•  3  Agribusiness, Competitiveness (Economics), Agricultural EconomicsFirm performance and international diversification: The internal and external competitive advantagesSave to LibraryDownloadby Alfredo bobillo•  14  Business, Marketing, International Economics, Transaction CostsIs China Relinquishing Manufacturing Competitiveness to Mexico in US Markets?The present paper expands on the understanding of the competition between China and Mexico in US markets. Using the OECD International Trade by Commodity Statistics covering the period 2002–2012, we undertake both relative-market-share... moreThe present paper expands on the understanding of the competition between China and Mexico in US markets. Using the OECD International Trade by Commodity Statistics covering the period 2002–2012, we undertake both relative-market-share analysis and constant-market-share analysis. Through comparison of market share changes at both macro and micro levels, we find that on the one hand China ’s total negative impact on Mexican manufactured exports has been greatly reduced since 2007; on the other hand, China is increasingly aligned with Mexico in terms of its competitive position over the US market, consolidating its competitiveness in high and medium-to-high technology products and gaining market share in the US market, mainly at the expense of the most advancedeconomies. This changing pattern suggests the intensification of competition between Mexico and China, but also a potential for cooperation, with the enhancement of bilateral intraindustry trade as a result of different technology choices and specialization paths.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lin  Yue•  3  International Trade, Competitiveness (Economics), China and Latin AmericaTowards sustained competitiveness in UK construction: A multi-methodological approachThe world in which we live and work is a rapidly changing place, and only by looking ahead can we prepare ourselves today for what might happen in the future. An ongoing three-year research project at the universities of Loughborough,... moreThe world in which we live and work is a rapidly changing place, and only by looking ahead can we prepare ourselves today for what might happen in the future. An ongoing three-year research project at the universities of Loughborough, Reading and Salford is now at the half-way stage and the three institutions have worked together in a complimentary and collaborative manner in order to fulfil the project objectives and produce some initial preliminary research findings. The objective of the research is to identify and understand the challenges and opportunities confronting the UK construction sector over the next 10 to 20 years and to investigate ways to mitigate and/or exploit them. To date, 24 workshops have been conducted and nearly 70 causal maps and future scenarios produced. In addition, case histories have been developed to reveal the unique contexts of a range of collaborating organisations and what this means for their strategy and competitiveness. A series of system dynamic...Save to LibraryDownloadby Chris Goodier•  6  Engineering, Future Studies, Construction Management, Competitiveness (Economics)Konkurencyjność przedsiębiorstwa - koncepcje, pomiar, ocena i standaryzacja / Competitiveness of an enterprise - concepts, measurements, evaluation and standardisationSave to LibraryDownloadby Marian  Gorynia•  3  Competitiveness (Economics), Economy, Competitiveness of enterprisesАктуальные функциональные задачи маркетинговой товарной политики : монографияВ издании представлены научно-практические положения о классических инструментах маркетинговой товарной политики. Описаны принципы и порядок применения методов дифференциации товаров организации (ABC- XYZ-анализ), методические вопросы по... moreВ издании представлены научно-практические положения о классических инструментах маркетинговой товарной политики. Описаны принципы и порядок применения методов дифференциации товаров организации (ABC- XYZ-анализ), методические вопросы по оптимизации объема запасов (модель EOQ); приведена универсальная процедура оценки качества и конкурентоспособности товара и организации; изложена методика определения товарных границ рынка (сегмента). Все теоретические разработки сопровождены целевыми примерами.Для ученых, аспирантов, преподавателей и студентов высших учебных заведений, сотрудников маркетинговых служб организаций.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrey  Kataev•  3  Marketing, Competitiveness (Economics), Sale of GoodsAn analysis of the competitiveness of the South African citrus industry using the Constant Market Share and Porter’s diamond model approachesSave to LibraryDownloadby Ajuruchukwu Obi•Competitiveness (Economics)An Approach to Local and Regional CompetitivenessThis paper is aimed at: i) showing that some competitiveness principles are ley issues for local development, and ii), bringing forth indicators that permit to establish the relative competitive position of a region concerning the tarde... moreThis paper is aimed at: i) showing that some competitiveness principles are ley issues for local development, and ii), bringing forth indicators that permit to establish the relative competitive position of a region concerning the tarde of goods and services at different aggregation levels. On such basis, the paper suggests a methodology that combines elements from export demand and inter-regional demand analysis, when demand is segmented, there is product differentiation and intrafirm trade characterized by agglomeration, scale and scope economies in firms. Key words: Trade, Local and Regional Competitiveness, Economic Growth. Resumen:Este trabajo se propone: i) mostrar algunos principios de la competitividad como elemento del desarrollo local; y ii), mostrar algunos indicadores complementarios que permiten determinar la posición relativa de las regiones en el comercio de bienes y servicios en los diferentes ámbitos de agregación. A partir de lo anterior, se muestra una metodología que combina elementos de demanda de exportación y el análisis de la demanda interregional, en ambientes caracterizados por la segmentación de la demanda, por la diferenciación de productos y por el comercio interempresarial, con economías de aglomeración, escala y alcance en las empresas.  Palabras clave: comercio, competitividad, local y regional, crecimiento económico. Berumen, S. A. [2005]: “An Approach to Local and Regional Competitiveness”, Cuadernos de Administración, Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá, 18 (29), pp. 13-32.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergio A Berumen•  7  International Trade, Competitiveness (Economics), Economic Growth, Local Economic DevelopmentIndependence of the South African Reserve Bank: Managing Interest RatesThe South African Reserve Bank (SARB) is the central bank of South Africa and is privately owned. This private ownership was the secret ingredient for the dismantling of the political regime known as Apartheid. Many years later, it seems... moreThe South African Reserve Bank (SARB) is the central bank of South Africa and is privately owned. This private ownership was the secret ingredient for the dismantling of the political regime known as Apartheid. Many years later, it seems that today there has been a reversal of roles because it appears that the current political regime in South Africa is succeeding in dismantling the SARB’s independence and the way it operates. This paper examines interest rate announcements as an indirect measure of the political independence of the SARB. The test constructed in this paper consists of two interest rate models; of actual and projected interest rates. These models are then compared with one another because the difference in the movement of actual interest rates, as measured against the movement of projected interest rates, could provide evidence that the SARB is not performing its duties independently. The results of the study indicate that the SARB is to a great extent independent, but still has some room for improvement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ewert Kleynhans•  6  Monetary Economics, Industrial Organization, Industrial Economics, ManufacturingA panel VAR analysis of macro-financial imbalances in the EUSave to LibraryDownloadby Mariarosaria Comunale•  3  Competitiveness (Economics), European Union, Current accountsMergers and acquisitions carried out by Spanish firms in Latin America: A network analysis studySave to LibraryDownloadby josé manuel  garcía de la cruz•  11  Finance, Economics, Mergers & Acquisitions, TelecommunicationsFactors Influencing Large Real Estate Companies' Competitiveness: A Sustainable Development PerspectiveStrict policy control and real estate market downturn affects large-scale real estate enterprises performance. We surveyed large Chinese real estate enterprises and the internal factors that affect their competitiveness. Verified by the... moreStrict policy control and real estate market downturn affects large-scale real estate enterprises performance. We surveyed large Chinese real estate enterprises and the internal factors that affect their competitiveness. Verified by the hierarchical regression and structural equation modelling approach, the results mainly show that profitability, capital ability, management and operation ability, human resource ability, brand name, and innovation ability play positive roles in the competitiveness of large real estate enterprises. Management and operation ability plays an intermediary role between human resources and the improvement of competitiveness. Real estate enterprises’ capital sources play an intermediary role between brand names and the improvement of competitiveness. Moreover, landbank area and quality and sales are three major factors that impact the competitiveness improvement of real estate enterprises, while the ability for marketing innovation and the payment collection of enterprises has a relatively small impact. All in all, this paper provides practical implications concerning factors that affect the competitiveness of large real estate enterprises. The findings are helpful to improve the sustainable development of real estate enterprises in the future. As research on factors that affect large-scale real estate enterprises is scarce, this study aims to fill this gap.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rita Li•  20  Real Estate, Real Estate Economics, Financial Economics, Competitiveness (Economics)Designing the Urban Renaissance. Sustainable and Competitive Place Making in EnglandThe economic and social challenges brought by globalization and the inevitable prospect of a commitment to sustainable development have induced the UE to put towns and cities at the heart of the current political agenda. Urban and... moreThe economic and social challenges brought by globalization and the inevitable prospect of a commitment to sustainable development have induced the UE to put towns and cities at the heart of the current political agenda. Urban and metropolitan areas are considered as primary resources for the regeneration of the territory and for the distribution of wealth among the population. The initial and admirable example of Barcelona was soon joined by similar initiatives across the continent, according to a widespread process of urban renaissance driven by new instances of competitiveness and sustainability.In England this trend led the New Labour Government, properly addressed by the research report of the Urban Task Force in 1999, to renew the old planning system and to establish new rules and financial resources to stop the physical and economic decline of many urban areas, supporting initiatives and projects to bring people and jobs back in the heart of towns and cities.Urban design – the main focus of the book – is considered by the government one of the most effective tools for controlling the ongoing processes of transformation, raising the overall quality and degree of urbanity of places and ensuring a proper balance between the necessary aesthetic, environmental, social and economic requirements.The research describes the support given to local authorities for this purpose through new laws and powers, the publishing of planning and design manuals and the delivery of especially dedicated funds, bodies and programs. It also explores the character and purpose of new developments such as scientific parks, creative/cultural quarters, retail and commercial districts, public realm works, describing critically recurring design rules and features.Readers interested in urban policies, architecture and the built environment will find a concise yet comprehensive explanation, enriched by a lot of pictures, on why and how many towns and cities such as Birmingham, Nottingham, Leicester or Sheffield have been changing during the last decade.Save to LibraryDownloadby Francesco Vescovi•  8  Urban Geography, Architecture, Competitiveness (Economics), Sustainable UrbanismManufacturing Firms' Performance and Productivity: Evidence from North and South European, Scandinavian and Balkan CountriesThe purpose of the study is to analyze and compare the financial performance of manufacturing firms of Central and South European, Scandinavian and Balkan countries. In addition, the impact of firm's productivity on country's export... moreThe purpose of the study is to analyze and compare the financial performance of manufacturing firms of Central and South European, Scandinavian and Balkan countries. In addition, the impact of firm's productivity on country's export intensity, foreign direct investments, R&D activity and financing costs is examined. This is the first comparative study making an inter-country, interregional and inter-manufacturing sector comparison of the financial performance of manufacturing firms in European, Scandinavian and Balkan regions through selected countries. This research attempts to investigate the relation of macro variables, such as country export intensity, FDI and R&D on the competitiveness of the manufacturing firms in those countries measured on the firm level. In order to access the factors that affect the competitiveness of the manufacturing firms in each one of the 15 countries of the sample, we run 15 Tobit (truncated) models, using balanced panel data for the period 2008-2011.Save to LibraryDownloadby Konstantinos Vassakis and +1Xanthi Partalidou•  12  Southern Europe, Manufacturing, Balkan Studies, Competitiveness (Economics)The 4th Dimension of CompetitionEconomists have argued for centuries about that nature of competition. In the 18th Century, economist Adam Smith stated that every individual “intends only his own gain.” Therefore, he exchanges what he produces with others who su ciently... moreEconomists have argued for centuries about that nature of competition. In the 18th Century, economist Adam Smith stated that every individual “intends only his own gain.” Therefore, he exchanges what he produces with others who su ciently value what he has to o er. The one topic that most economists agree on is the elusive nature of individual utility. What one man values, others often ignore. This simple fact is what drives human innovation and ingenuity.Most business leaders will tell you that you have to choose two of the three competitive dimensions: price, quality or speed, and that you cannot compete on all three. In today’s market, however, consumers expect all three.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sean W Flaherty•  3  User Experience (UX), Competitiveness (Economics), Behavioral EconomicsSanctions and Export Deflection: Evidence from IranDo export sanctions cause export deflection? Data on Iranian non-oil exporters between January 2006 and June 2011 shows that two-thirds of these exports were deflected to non-sanctioning countries after sanctions were imposed in 2008, and... moreDo export sanctions cause export deflection? Data on Iranian non-oil exporters between January 2006 and June 2011 shows that two-thirds of these exports were deflected to non-sanctioning countries after sanctions were imposed in 2008, and that at this time aggregate exports actually increased. Exporting firms reduced prices and increased quantities when exporting to a new destination, however, and suffered welfare losses as a result.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamal Ibrahim Haidar•  59  Business, Management, Marketing, Business AdministrationCan Industrial Policy be Good Policy?Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeffrey A Hart•  3  Competitiveness (Economics), International Political Economy, Trade and Industrial PolicySTATE AND PROSPECTS OF THE MACEDONIAN CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT IN REGIONAL AND GLOBAL COMPETITIVE FRAMEWORKS Save to LibraryDownloadby Slagjana Stojanovska•  4  Clusters & Networks, Competitiveness (Economics), Strategic Management, Regional developmentHigher education and economic competitivenessHigher education plays an increasingly critical role in the economic competitiveness of local, state, and national economies. The factors driving the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index are examined to illustrate how... moreHigher education plays an increasingly critical role in the economic competitiveness of local, state, and national economies. The factors driving the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index are examined to illustrate how higher education has come to be viewed as a driver of economic growth. Then, by examining institutional economic development reports and national economic competitiveness plans, this chapter lays out the growing global interest and import of economic competitiveness and the ways in which governments are seeking to harness the power of higher education to support their own competitiveness. It concludes with a discussion of how governments, businesses, and higher education institutions could collaborate to develop public agendas to guide, among other things, the economic contributions of colleges and universities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jason Lane•  7  Higher Education, Competitiveness (Economics), Transformation of University Systems, Economic Development[Rec.] Klastry biznesowe w rozwoju konkurencyjności i innowacyjności regionów. Świat - Europa - Polska, red. E. Skawińska, R. Zalewski [Business Clusters in the Development of Competitiveness and Innovative Capacity of Regions : World - Europe - Poland]Save to LibraryDownloadby Marian  Gorynia•  3  Competitiveness (Economics), Literature Review, Business ClustersQuality: A Determinant Factor of Competitiveness - The Evolution of ISO Certifications for Management SystemsIn the current economy characterized by increased competition, quality represents a fundamental condition for the competitiveness of firms producing goods or providing services at global level. Obtaining competitiveness implies a... moreIn the current economy characterized by increased competition, quality represents a fundamental condition for the competitiveness of firms producing goods or providing services at global level. Obtaining competitiveness implies a permanent adaptment of the management procesesses of the organizations to the market conditions and consumer demands and requires the adoption of a systemic quality control concept, which refers not only to the productive activities, but to all their functional departments. The purpose of this article is to discuss the concept of quality from the perspective of business competitiveness and, furthermore, to examine the evolution of ISO certifications for management systems. The ISO 9000 series are standards based on the idea of continual improvement, that establish the requirements for a quality management system, allowing businesses and organizations to improve their process performance, organizational capabilities and customer satisfaction. The permanent improvement and adaptation of this quality standard to the economic turbulences are the subject of this study. Using methods of qualitative research, this paper analyses the evolution of ISO certifications for management systems worldwide emphasizing on ISO 9001. The interest shown by organizations to continuous improvement of quality is due to an external threat generated by real or potential market losses caused by poor quality. Therefore, quality is considered a strategic contribution that can not be neglected in order to achieve competitiveness.Save to LibraryDownloadby Adriana  Dima (Girneata) and +1Mihaela MASCU  (UDA)•  5  Quality Management, Competitiveness (Economics), Total Quality Management (TQM), Competitive advantageHow CDFIs can Leverage Fintech and Banking Innovations to Increase Competitive Advantage of the Inner CityWhile much has been opined concerning the causal nature of economic disadvantage; the current socio-economic landscape of the inner city remains a fertile ground to yield the fruits of advantage and economic empowerment provided that the... moreWhile much has been opined concerning the causal nature of economic disadvantage; the current socio-economic landscape of the inner city remains a fertile ground to yield the fruits of advantage and economic empowerment provided that the correct recipe of institutional and technological innovation is administered to the most afflicted areas. In an attempt to stitch an innovative economic framework to ameliorate the gravity of disadvantage in the inner city, the community empowerment paradigm articulated by Anthony D. Taibi (1994) will merge with Michael E. Porter’s (2008) theories on competitive advantage within the context of the technological revolutions instigated by cryptocurrencies, blockchain, roboadvisors and “cloudbanking.” A special recognition will be made for Paul Tracey and Neil Stott’s theory of “social extrapreneurship” insofar as it articulates an impactful organizational framework for strategic institutional partnerships. Fusing theory and practice together, this paper will survey institutions such as the congressionally mandated Community Development Financial Institution also known as CDFIs and in what ways such institutions might deploy cutting-edge​ fintech and banking innovations to increase competitive advantage in American inner cities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Charles Massiatte•  8  Community Development, Competitiveness (Economics), Banking, Cloud ComputingKorean Dramas and Films: Key Factors for Their International CompetitivenessThe Korean wave, which is the popularity of Korean entertainment outside Korea, is a fairly new phenomenon. Encompassing Korean dramas, films, and songs, it has been highlighted by international media outlets and scholars. Several... moreThe Korean wave, which is the popularity of Korean entertainment outside Korea, is a fairly new phenomenon. Encompassing Korean dramas, films, and songs, it has been highlighted by international media outlets and scholars. Several prestigious newspapers and scholars attempted to explain the competitiveness of the Korean wave, but they have remained biased by missing, overemphasizing , or overlapping important success factors. To provide a more comprehensive and accurate analysis, this paper conducts a rigorous study on the competitiveness of Korean entertainment industry focused on Korean dramas and films with a comprehensive analytical tool, the generalized double diamond model. The results of this study provide evidences that the Korean wave is not a temporary phenomenon but a sustainable industry segment. For further enhancement of this important industry, this paper suggests useful implications, including international cooperation with other countries.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hwy-Chang  Moon and +1Jimmyn Parc•  11  Cultural Studies, Media and Cultural Studies, International Business, South KoreaDestination Competitiveness: Evidence from BaliWithin the dynamic global tourism industry, understanding the reasons for a destination’s competitiveness is essential in order to enhance its performance, facilitate more effective destination management, and inform its overall... moreWithin the dynamic global tourism industry, understanding the reasons for a destination’s competitiveness is essential in order to enhance its performance, facilitate more effective destination management, and inform its overall sustainable economic development. This paper applies Kim and Wicks’ (2010) tourism cluster development model to Bali - a small, mature destination in the developing economy of Indonesia. It demonstrates that there are complex relationships between: (i) cluster actors; (ii) barriers preventing effective networking; and (iii) the significance of these interactions for the local host community. This paper contributes to the debate by addressing new and different attributes and actors such as transnational corporations (TNCs), universities, and the concept of co-opetition, as being significant attributes in Kim and Wicks’ initial model. Through a qualitative approach involving n=23 semi-structured interviews, this paper illustrates intricate issues and relationships that are identified in Bali, a small mature destination. Purposive sampling methods were employed to generate a range of key stakeholders who informed our understanding of ‘cluster actors’ in Kim and Wicks’ terms. The systematic examination of these key tourism elements provides a detailed analysis of the destination’s strengths and weaknesses, and a more nuanced understanding of what facilitates a destination’s competitive position. Key words: destination competitiveness; cluster theory; impacts; island tourism; IndonesiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Mark  Hampton and +1Wei Lee Chin•  11  Human Geography, Economic Geography, Tourism Studies, Tourism ManagementEnforcement Directive – Measures for the enforcement of IP Rights in accession countries from Western Balkans (Croatia & Macedonia in the focus)The Directive 2004/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the enforcement of intellectual property rights [Enforcement Directive] , as controversial as it is, provokes interest for further research and analyses of its... moreThe Directive 2004/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the enforcement of intellectual property rights [Enforcement Directive] , as controversial as it  is, provokes interest for further research and analyses of its impact on the national legislation in EU countries. Another issue that provokes interest is the effect and impacts of the Enforcement Directive in regard to the EU enlargement and the impact of the EU legislation onto the legislation in countries that accessed the Community or that are in the process of accession. In that regard the objective of this thesis is to explore the adoption of the Directive provisions into the national legislation of two candidate countries from the Western Balkans group, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Croatia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maja Baric•  6  Intellectual Property, Industrial Design, Competitiveness (Economics), Copyright and intellectual propertyCultural heritage, tourism and regional competitiveness: The Motor Valley clusterSave to LibraryDownloadby Fred Alberti•  5  Tourism Studies, Cultural Heritage, Innovation statistics, Competitiveness (Economics)Refleksje nad rozwojem marketingu – ujęcie historyczne   /   Reflections on development of marketing – a historical viewStreszczenie: Niniejszy artykuł pokazuje początki stosowania pojęcia marketing i jego ewolucję do czasów współczesnych. Pierwsze odnotowane użycie tego słowa pochodzi z 1561 roku, a więc w 2014 roku ma ono 453 lata. Publikacje mające w... moreStreszczenie: Niniejszy artykuł pokazuje początki stosowania pojęcia marketing i jego ewolucję do czasów współczesnych. Pierwsze odnotowane użycie tego słowa pochodzi z 1561 roku, a więc w 2014 roku ma ono 453 lata. Publikacje mające w tytule termin marketing, pojawiają się na początku XX w. i wiążą się z produkcją rolniczą oraz handlem żywnością. Mimo, że pozycje książkowe o istocie marketingu pojawiają się w latach 20. XX w., to za pierwszą definicję uznać trzeba dopiero stwierdzenie F.E. Clarka z 1925 roku, że Marketing oznacza wysiłki, których efekt przenosi się na własność towarów. Definicja inicjująca działalność stowarzyszenia AMA powstanie 10 lat później i będzie odnosiła się do dystrybucji. W miarę rozwoju przemysłu i handlu, powstawania wielkich miast, upowszechniania się wynalazków, rynek się zmienia i zmieniają się działania marketingowe przedsiębiorców. Wydaje się jednak, że dopiero od lat 50. XX w. mówić można o marketingu, jako metodzie zdobywania sukcesu przez lepsze niż konkurencja zaspokajanie potrzeb odbiorców.Słowa kluczowe: sprzedaż, rolnictwo, pośrednicy, transformacja rynku, konkurencja, ewolucja marketingu Summary: This paper shows the origins of a concept of marketing and its evolution from the XVI c. till modern times. The first recorded use of the term dates from 1561, so in 2014 it is 453 years old. Publications with the term marketing in a title become visible at the beginning of the XX c. and are associated with agricultural production and trade of food. Although books discussing the theory and essence of marketing appear in the 20s. of XX c., it must be regarded that the first definition is F.E. Clark`s the statement (1925) that Marketing means efforts which effects transfers in the ownership of goods. Definition initiating activity of the AMA association will upraise 10 years later and will refer to distribution. According to development of industry and trade, emergence of large cities, dissemination of inventions, the market is changing and entrepreneurs` approach to marketing is changing as well. It seems, however , that only from 50s. of XX c. we can talk about marketing as a way of gaining success through better than competition meeting the needs of customers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joanna  Hernik•  5  Competitiveness (Economics), Agriculture, Market Research, Sales & MarketingTchibo Gmb HSave to LibraryDownloadby Alyona Lanovaya•Competitiveness (Economics)The Panama Canal: Cluster analysis and recommendations for future growth and competitivenessThe change in ownership of the Panama Canal from the United States to Panama in 1999 has allowed the Panamanian government to use this extensive infrastructure to trigger development in the local economy. Although the Panama Canal has... moreThe change in ownership of the Panama Canal from the United States to Panama in 1999 has allowed the Panamanian government to use this extensive infrastructure to trigger development in the local economy. Although the Panama Canal has predominantly served as a way of passage for ships wishing to bridge the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, its expansion due to be finished in 2015 has the potential to accelerate local economic development by attracting a greater share of maritime trade and by generating the conditions for the creation of interrelated industries that capture and retain added value. Panama’s national business environment is examined using a cluster diamond analysis, followed by an in-depth analysis of the Panama Canal cluster. This paper argues that nationwide competitiveness is contingent upon reforms regarding corruption, reformed oversight of the financial sector, increased industry diversification, and improved access to education. With regards to the Panama Canal, its competitiveness as a maritime hub will depend on how effectively the development of new and emerging industries can be incentivized, particularly transshipment and light manufacturing.Save to LibraryDownloadby Matthieu  Baril•  7  Regional competitiveness, Maritime Transport Geography, Competitiveness (Economics), Competitiveness (Business)MAIN APPROACHES TO DEFINING CRITERIA FOR COMPETITIVENESS OF ENTERPRISESScientific adviser: Ashurmetova N.A. Uzbekistan, Tashkent. Tashkent State Agrarian University, Agribusiness and investment activity Competitiveness is the key to the market success of a product and its manufacturer, and solving the... moreScientific adviser: Ashurmetova N.A. Uzbekistan, Tashkent. Tashkent State Agrarian University, Agribusiness and investment activity Competitiveness is the key to the market success of a product and its manufacturer, and solving the competitiveness problem is a very difficult task in the activity of any producer company, requiring coordinated, focused work of all departments. In order to deliberately influence the improvement of the competitiveness of an enterprise, it is necessary to have a clear idea of the factors that determine it. To do this, it is necessary to analyze the tasks of the enterprise and identify key characteristics or indicators of competitiveness that reflect its state as it develops. As it develops, each enterprise is faced with certain problems and tasks, the overcoming and solution of which are carried out through the use of various management techniques and technologies. The first task that arises for an enterprise operating in a market is elementary survival or the ability to pay its bills, i.e. ensuring solvency. The problem is solved by taking urgent measures to sell already manufactured products, conducting a number of marketing activities: market analysis, assortment, pricing policy, promotion methods. Upon achieving solvency, the natural task of achieving profitability arises. At this stage, marketing measures must be supplemented with economic measures (analysis of production costs, cost analysis and pricing) and organizational and technological measures (analysis of production efficiency, manufacturability, etc.). After solving pressing current problems, tasks of a different level arise. The first key characteristic at the second level is the management strategy. After solving current problems, the company's management should focus on longer-term goals and objectives. For this, a strategic concept, an enterprise strategy, and, based on a SWOT analysis and business plans, strategies for each department are developed. The next important task for enterprise management is structuring and the characteristic corresponding to this problem-adaptability of the management system. The adaptability of an enterprise management system is understood as the correspondence of the organizational structure, methods, principles and mechanisms of enterprise management to the goals, functions and strategies of the enterprise and its divisions. The management system should contribute to the implementation of the strategic concept of the company.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mansurkhuja Tukhtasinov•  6  Agribusiness, Competitiveness (Economics), Logistics Management, InvestmentITALIAN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS: A MODEL OF SUCCESS OR A WEAK PRODUCTIVE SYSTEM?The present contribution focuses on two issues. The first one concerns the characteristics of industrial districts and the increasing weight of these districts in the Italian system of production. The second issue is about the... moreThe present contribution focuses on two issues. The first one concerns the characteristics of industrial districts and the increasing weight of these districts in the Italiansystem of production. The second issue is about the competitiveness of the Italian industrial districts, if they represent a model of success or rather a weak system of production.Thus, the transformation of the industrial districts is examined and the strengths and weaknesses are highlighted. One argument that comes out of this investigation is that industrial districts are strongly influenced by institutions, territory, and also by the socialand cultural environment. The second argument regards the competitiveness of this Italian industrial development model, based on SMEs, which is founded on the specializationof productions, on innovation and internationalization. The paper argues that this model, which represents the “Made in Italy”, is still a strong and dynamic system which has shown good performances and it represents a paradigm of lasting competitiveness, even if it is restrained by many external chronic constraints.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniele  Schilirò•  3  Industrial Economics, Competitiveness (Economics), internationalization of SMEsProgetto urbano strategico e competitività delle aree metropolitane: Quaderni AUCSave to LibraryDownloadby Francesco Vescovi•  5  Architecture, Globalization, Competitiveness (Economics), Urban RegenerationEconomies of Scale and Concentration in the Greek and the Norwegian Aquaculture Industry. An empirical Study.To investigate economies of scale, we use the Cobb-Douglas production function, while we examine the structure of the fish-farming by computing the HHI indicator over different years. We find that the market concentration level is high in... moreTo investigate economies of scale, we use theCobb-Douglas production function, while we examine the structure of the fish-farming by computing the HHIindicator over different years. We find that the market concentration level is high in Greece in both relative, toNorway, and in absolute terms. From the other part, Norway, the leader of the fish farming of Atlantic salmonand Rainbow trout globally, suffers from economies of scale in the examined period. Given the fact that bothGreek and Norwegian production is targeting large markets in Europe (UK, France, Italy) both the findings inGreece and Norway may be worrying signals, that large M&A activity may lead to decreasing competitionand increasing returns to scale in the industry, as previously happened in the food retail industry. Given theimportant contribution of fish farming to poverty alleviation, food security and social well being, Europeanregulators should investigate whether it is optimal to exercise policies that enhance technology transfer andlimit further market concentration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Konstantinos Vergos and +1Panagiotis Krystallidis•  25  Economics, Macroeconomics, Competition Law, Competitiveness (Economics)HACIA LA CONSTRUCCIÓN DE UN MODELO DE NEGOCIOS INNOVADOR PARA EL SUMINISTRO, COMERCIALIZACIÓN Y VENTA DE FRÍO EN EDIFICACIONES EN EL SECTOR TERCIARIO MEDIANTE EL USO DE TECNOLOGÍAS LIMPIAS Y EFICIENTESLa literatura ofrece una gran cantidad de definiciones y conceptos acerca de modelos de negocio, para objeto de este estudio se define como un grupo de operaciones interdependientes que ayudan a descubrir las necesidades del mercado... moreLa literatura ofrece una gran cantidad de definiciones y conceptos acerca de modelos de negocio, para objeto de este estudio se define como un grupo de operaciones interdependientes que ayudan a descubrir las necesidades del mercado permitiendo que la organización se ajuste a estas con el fin de dar mejor respuesta al cliente final y generar valor. Este trabajo corresponde a la primera fase en la construcción de un nuevo modelo de negocios en el contexto de servicios de climatización para edificaciones. Se encuentra enmarcado en el desarrollo del proyecto Diseño, desarrollo y validación de un modelo de gestión energética de sistema de climatización de edificaciones en el sector terciario de la región Caribe colombiana para la mejora de la eficiencia energética y la sostenibilidad ambiental, que se desarrolla entre algunas de las más importantes universidades de Colombia. Se parte de una revisión y caracterización de los modelos de negocios existentes relacionados con el suministro, comercialización y venta de frío-calor, mediante el uso de tecnologías limpias y eficientes en el mundo, con el fin de identificar cuáles deben ser las características de este tipo de modelos de negocio, que permitan el diseño y validación del nuevo modelo de negocios teniendo en cuenta el carácter innovador del mismo y su viabilidad dentro de la relación cliente-proveedor que permita ofertar frío en ambientes previamente caracterizados integrando las variables del sistema correspondiente al sector terciario. Esto constituye innovación en Colombia ya que actualmente no se cuenta con modelos de esta naturaleza, lo que contribuirá a construir proyecciones a escalas en el consumo del frío con sus respectivas implicaciones en el consumo energético y tarifario. La revisión se lleva a cabo a través de búsqueda en bases de datos especializadas, tesis doctorales y de maestría, trabajo de campo y otras fuentes secundarias.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Ovallos and +2Yulineth Gómez CharrisPEDRO JESSID PACHECO TORRES•  4  Competitiveness (Economics), Innovation and Creativity (Business), Business Models, HVAC / Building ServicesMatryca EisenhoweraPopularny i prosty sposób na zarządzanie czasem - jego autorem był ponoć Dwight Eiseinhower...Save to LibraryDownloadby krzysztof maciejewski•  4  Competitiveness (Economics), Competitive Intelligence, Business Intelligence, Time ManagementA Modest ProposalOver the last few years, I have had the opportunity to guest lecture, usually at the Master’s level, at various Universities in Upstate New York. I find the experience very rewarding as I have the opportunity to bring value to the next... moreOver the last few years, I have had the opportunity to guest lecture, usually at the Master’s level, at various Universities in Upstate New York.  I find the experience very rewarding as I have the opportunity to bring value to the next generation.  But, most importantly, I am always enriching my knowledge in the classroom participation of the students.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Paris•  11  Business, Cultural Studies, Education, GlobalizationAncient Greek competition - a modern construct?To contribute to an understanding of the nature and role of competition in human society, this chapter points out that the notion of competition was first used as a scientific concept when economic theory came into being. It became an... moreTo contribute to an understanding of the nature and role of competition in human society, this chapter points out that the notion of competition was first used as a scientific concept when economic theory came into being. It became an axiom of the new science of 'economics' that human competitiveness was not restricted to any single part of the world or any particular period of time. But the histtoy of the various meanings and connotations of 'competition' shows how intricately this term is intervowen with changing world views. By using the word as an analytical concept or a descriptive term, one cannot help projecting theses world views into the study of antiquity. The best way out of this conundrum would seem to be a thorough examination of the manifold historical situations in which men competed with each other for different goals in different ways.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christoph  Ulf•  9  Ancient History, Cultural Studies, Classics, Competitiveness (Economics)Иновационната политика на Китай като фактор на международната конкурентоспособност на страната (Innovation policy as a factor of China's international competitiveness)Over the past 20 years China has registered an impressive growth in its exports and since 2009 is the world largest exporter. The country’s export bundle has been upgraded and includes more sophisticated skill-based goods. However, there... moreOver the past 20 years China has registered an impressive growth in its exports and since 2009 is the world largest exporter. The country’s export bundle has been upgraded and includes more sophisticated skill-based goods. However, there is a debate whether China’s stellar export performance is based on ample and cheap labour force or the fundamental factors shaping its comparative advantage have changed. The paper first looks at China’s national innovation policy. Then the international competitiveness of the country is analyzed, based on changes in the exports structure, market share and relative trade balance indices. The results infer that China’s improvement of the export competitiveness is increasingly based on the building-up of its own technology-related strength.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paskal  Zhelev and +1Martin Lukov•  4  Competitiveness (Economics), Innovation Policy, China, ExportsSTRATEGIC COMPETITIVENESS OF MARITIME COMPANIES IN VOLATILE SHIPPING MARKET CONDITIONS: "KEEPING TRADE OR TRADITION?"In international trade and logistics sector, competitive priorities are placed at important level on the success of a firm. A firm's position on its competitive priorities is determined by its four long-term structural decisions:... moreIn international trade and logistics sector, competitive priorities are placed at important level on the success of a firm. A firm's position on its competitive priorities is determined by its four long-term structural decisions: facility, capacity, technology and vertical integration. However, maritime sector is quite different. Maritime transportation is the oldest economic mode of transportation and is still a viable part of the total transportation system. Competition among shipping carriers is limited as long as there are sufficient commodities to transport by using this method. The maritime transportation competes with many diverse economic factors such as commodity rates, petroleum prices and existing of other transportation types such as railroads and pipelines. In this study, qualitative methodology has been used and latest condition of shipping market including bulk, container and tanker segments has been descriptively reviewed within combination of different market reports and ship owners/managers' comments. Traders need a transportation service by chartering a vessel while performing the carriage step. This paper is aimed to reflect how shipper's and receiver's conduct decision-making process of chartering a vessel as per specifications of the vessels such as type, tonnage, flag, gearing condition, seaworthiness status and fuel consumption. Competition in maritime transport cannot be only described with supply and demand of shipping market, particularly the diverse fleets of different owners will become more important as the technologic developments increase. Evaluating the volatility of current shipping market will provide a new perspective to ship owners, managers and operators so that they can survive by changing the traditional mentality to trade benefit conjecture.Save to LibraryDownloadby A. Aslı Başak and +2Erdal NebolAYSE BASAK•  3  Competitiveness (Economics), Strategic Management, Shipping/ Transport LogisticsWork 2.0 : nowhere to hideWork is changing profoundly in new digital age. The whole world of work is in evolution. The old employment system of secure, lifelong jobs with predictable advancement and stable pay is dead. For some time now we’ve observed a greater... moreWork is changing profoundly in new digital age. The whole world of work is in evolution. The old employment system of secure, lifelong jobs with predictable advancement and stable pay is dead. For some time now we’ve observed a greater focus on flexibility, mobility, and the ability of quick adaptation of workers. The new era of Work 2.0 is coming driven by: work virtualisation, nonroutine creativity, hyperspecialisation, and reduction of communication, coordination and interactions costs. This calls for a different approach to management and work. However, technology is a double-edged sword, with the power to both liberate and enslave.  The recession is said to be over, but you’ll never get your old job back – it’s disappeared and you can’t even blame the Chinese! Your job no longer exists – it’s been automated. Book "Work 2.0” isn’t just a description of what is happening to the labor market, how we're working nowadays, it’s a complete how-to guide for successfully navigating today’s treacherous jobs environment, mitigating the risks of job loss, job insecurity, and increasing automation. Book is discussing the repercussions of automation, changes in the economic balance between East and West in terms of work, the growing importance of innovation and creativity for creating value, how companies can take advantage of the new situation and how can individuals stay competitive on the labour market.  How do you survive and thrive in the new labour market? How can workers cope in an economy which doesn’t generate stable lifelong careers? How can companies remain competitive and manage armies of dispersed hyperspecialists? You’ve become the newest victim of Work 2.0, a force you can’t possibly fight – but you can join it! If you are looking for a job – why not create one for yourself? If your company is losing its best talent – why not listen to what your workers are saying. Let them work anywhen. After all, there is nowhere to hide from the wave of creative destruction.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergiusz Prokurat•  59  Business, Organizational Behavior, Management, Social ChangeEvaluation of Cluster Competitiveness: Review, Framework and the Methodology EXECUTIVE SUMMARYRegional industry clusters have attracted the attention of international development agencies, national and local governments and corporations, as a means for of achieving competitiveness. In the literature, a considerable effort has gone... moreRegional industry clusters have attracted the attention of international development agencies, national and local governments and corporations, as a means for of achieving competitiveness. In the literature, a considerable effort has gone into investigating linkages and the role of clusters in boosting economic success of regions or their member firms. Yet, unlike national, industry and firm levels, a holistic attempt to evaluate competitiveness at the level of clusters has remained inadequate. This paper, through a thorough review of extant literature, pulls together diverse insights on clusters and competitiveness to devise a framework and a methodology that can be utilized for evaluation and comparison of competitiveness across industry clusters.Save to LibraryDownloadby Utpal Chattopadhyay•  2  Competitiveness (Economics), Impact of Macro Environment on BusinessA Área dos Estudos EstratégicosThis essay aims to clarify the definition of the area of Strategic Studies in what concerns its approach and methodology. The fact that Strategic Studies are not exclusively focused in military problems is underlined. In peacetime... moreThis essay aims to clarify the definition of the area of Strategic Studies in what concerns its approach and methodology. The fact that Strategic Studies are not exclusively focused in military problems is underlined. In peacetime competitive reality is much more a “non-armed conflictuality” situation stimulated by political, economic and cultural factors. In this context there is a vivid debate on the interdisciplinary condition of Strategic Studies and its connections with Security Studies and other area studies. Therefore this essay finishes with a proposal for an interdisciplinary framework of Strategic Studies and a strategic logic approach that sees Strategy as a cross-cut phenomenon of social reality used both as science and art by social actors whose goals are the acquisition and consolidation of Power.  Keywords: strategic studies; competitivity; interdisciplinary convergence; non-armed conflictuality; strategic logics.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pedro Borges Graca•  35  Area Studies, Strategy (Military Science), Regional competitiveness, Intelligence StudiesKonkurencyjność przedsiębiorstwa - próba konceptualizacji i operacjonalizacjiSave to LibraryDownloadby Marian  Gorynia•  4  Competitiveness (Economics), Economy, Operationalization, ConceptualizationАнализ и оценка на конкурентоспособносттаАнализът включва две предприятия от сектора на млекопреработвателната промишленост /"Ел Би Булгарикум" и "Би Си Си Хандел".Анализът ще се извърши въз основа на методиката за определяне на конкурентноспособността, която включва 5 етапа.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dimitar Mihaylov•  3  Economics, Competitiveness (Economics), Economy of IndustryCompetitiveness of International Business: Management, Economics, Technology, Environment, and Social Study of Cultural PerspectiveThe world is experiencing rapid growth and change, and for a business to compete qualified, manpower must receive full training. The world economy will determine the balance of power competitive advantages. A strong management approach... moreThe world is experiencing rapid growth and change, and for a business to compete qualified, manpower must receive full training. The world economy will determine the balance of power competitive advantages. A strong management approach will increase quality and productivity. It is an important factor for the companies to gain superiority in the field of efficiency, to adapt to the technological changes, and to compete. Therefore, businesses also need to realize these advantages to provide technological changes, as well as to create competitive advantages. Management approach is necessary to create the organizational structure. Business management delivering the identified strategic objectives requires continuous effort by employees from every level. This chapter investigates international business management in terms of competitiveness combined with the effects of the cultural and social environment in understanding the management and the impact of the economy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zafer ADIGUZEL•  13  Management, Information Technology, Economics, TechnologyA VANTAGEM COMPETITIVA DAS NAÇÕES DE MICHAEL PORTER: Um estudo sobre a Indústria Francesa de PerfumesSave to LibraryDownloadby Djessica Laiana Niehues•  6  Competitiveness (Economics), Marketing Strategy, Competitive advantage, Michael PorterCompetitive and Complementary Cruise PortsSave to LibraryDownloadby Alkis John Corres•  26  Sociology, Economics, Development Economics, Tourism StudiesRedbull: Dominating The Energy Drink IndustryThis paper has been prepared as an exercise in strategic analysis as part of my MBA program at the American University of Beirut (AUB), fall 2012-2013 semester.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mada  Arslan•  4  Competitiveness (Economics), Strategy (Business), Competitive advantage, StrategyNextLast »Related TopicsIndustrial EconomicsFollowFollowingIndustrial OrganizationFollowFollowingEcological EconomicsFollowFollowingEconomicsFollowFollowingRegional developmentFollowFollowingRegional competitivenessFollowFollowingMexican StudiesFollowFollowingCompetitivenessFollowFollowingPolitical EconomyFollowFollowingEconomics of InnovationFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023