Interest in women's history began much earlier than is assumed
Topics
Week's top
Latest news
Unread news
Subscribe
Science X Account
Remember me
Sign In
                           Click here to sign in with
                               
                                   or
                                
Forget Password?
Not a member?
                           Sign up
Learn more
Nanotechnology
Physics
Earth
Astronomy & Space
Chemistry
Biology
Other Sciences
 Medicine
                                
 Technology
                                 
share this!
46
9
Share
Email
Home
Other Sciences
Social Sciences
August 25, 2015
Interest in women's history began much earlier than is assumed
 by Dan Stober,   Stanford University
                Detail of a miniature of medieval writer Christine de Pizan. Stanford historian Paula Findlen has studied Renaissance biographies of medieval women and says these often embellished tales represent a kind of feminism. Credit: The British Library
             
Today, feminism is often associated with the political protests of the 1960s or the earlier women's suffrage movement, but Stanford historian Paula Findlen's latest research reveals that the impetus to champion women started in the late Middle Ages.
  
        
A scholar of the Italian Renaissance, Findlen has collected biographies of medieval women, written in Italy from the 15th to 18th centuries, several centuries after the women lived.
Through a close examination of these texts, Findlen found that these early modern writers were so passionate about medieval women that they sometimes fabricated stories about them.
As Findlen carefully tracked down the claims in these stories, she found they varied from factual to somewhat factual to entirely false.
These invented women were often mentioned in regional histories, with imaginary connections to important institutions. They were described as having law degrees or professorships, claims that turned out to be fictitious.
Findlen argues that these embellished tales represent what could possibly be described as the origins of a certain kind of feminism.
"Early modern forgers used stories of women to create precedents in support of things they wanted to see in their own time but needed to justify by invoking the past," Findlen said. "While debating the existence of these medieval women, the writers also contributed to the science of history as we know it."
Expanding her archival base from Bologna to other Italian cities, and observing how these stories traveled beyond Italy, Findlen found that the stories of local women gained international recognition.
Findlen described her foray into conjectural history "a project partly about how early modern medievalists invented the Middle Ages, claiming and defining this past." She added, "Making up history is a way of ensuring that you get the past you want to have."
In her forthcoming publication, currently titled "Inventing Medieval Women: History, Memory and Forgery in Early Modern Italy," Findlen pays particular attention to Alessandro Macchiavelli, an 18th-century lawyer from a Bolognese family.
Macchiavelli was passionate about finding evidence to support Bologna's reputation as a "paradise for women." He created stories and footnotes about learned medieval women from the region, including writer Christine de Pizan.
According to Findlen, "He aggressively made up [biographies of] medieval women and supplied the evidence that was missing for them."
Presented as facts, these fables forged the medieval origins of Bologna's female intelligentsia. Findlen initially worked on this material because she was searching for – and failing to find – evidence of medieval precedents that kept being invoked in early modern sources. "In the end," she said, "it intrigued me."
While people later recognized that Macchiavelli was a forger, it was true that he brought critical attention to women's lives.
In a sense, Macchiavelli demonstrates "a quirky early modern male version of feminism," Findlen said. He also contributed to the beginnings of the discipline of medieval history. When he forged a document, he did so based on extensive knowledge of the archives and a fine understanding of historical method.
"Medieval history is one of the really important subjects where people develop a documentary culture during the late 17th and 18th centuries, and they begin to identify and select the documents that matter for defining the Middle Ages," Findlen said.
      
Imagining the women of Bologna
Between the 15th and 18th centuries, Findlen said, representations of medieval women enhanced a city's reputation.
For example, scholars in Bologna wanted to learn about its presumed tradition of learned women. They craved information about medieval women who could provide historical precedents for someone like Laura Bassi, the first woman who can be documented as receiving a degree and professorship from the University of Bologna in 1732. Having precedents made her seem like a reinvention of the old rather than someone threateningly new.
Findlen first turned to Christine de Pizan (c. 1364-1430), the daughter of a University of Bologna graduate and professor. She is perhaps best known for her writings praising women.
In her Book of the City of Ladies (1405), a catalog of illustrious women, Christine contemplated her Italian roots. This longing for her past inspired Christine to imagine "what the ingredients were of this world that made her, and other women like her," Findlen said.
Although inspired by some kernels of truth, Christine's writings invented evidence to fill out her narratives, Findlen said. In this way, Christine provides a starting point for Bologna's interest in women's history that will unfold over the next four centuries.
What we want from history
Findlen's project rethinks our compulsion to write about the past. "Some of the stuff we take for granted is legend, not fact," she said, "but I think that I'm even more interested in having people understand why we want it."
Despite the presence of fake facts in medieval women's biographies, Findlen emphasized that "the unreliability of the past is also part of the evidence that we have to account for." Moreover, she added, this project requires "knowing the archives … well enough to catch the nuances."
"The process of creating a history of women," Findlen said, "starts with this impulse to create collective biographies in the 14th and 15th centuries onward."
Envisioning the wider impact of her work, Findlen said: "I would like this project to offer an interesting window into the invention of history, taking Italy as a case study, to understand why [early modern] people were so passionate about the Middle Ages."
During the Renaissance, "people are increasingly concerned with documenting the history that was," Findlen said. "They're interested in the history that might have been. And then they're also interested in the history that should have been. And those are three different approaches to history."
 
Provided by
Stanford University
Citation:
Interest in women's history began much earlier than is assumed (2015, August 25)
retrieved 3 September 2023
from https://phys.org/news/2015-08-women-history-began-earlier-assumed.html
 
 This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no
 part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
 
Explore further
The 'woman who understood Newton'
74 shares
Facebook
Twitter
Email
 Feedback to editors
Featured
Last Comments
Popular
Saturday Citations: Ancient corvids, tetraquarks, and researchers who aren't bored hearing about your dreams
Sep 2, 2023
0
Japanese astrophysicists suggest possibility of hidden planet in the Kuiper Belt
Sep 1, 2023
4
Clay formation prolonged global warming event 40 million years ago, according to new biogeochemical model
Sep 1, 2023
4
LHCb collaboration observes a doubly charged tetraquark and its neutral partner for the first time
Sep 1, 2023
0
Multiple types of testing reveal details of Bronze Age cremation remains
Aug 31, 2023
0
 
India's moon rover completes its walk, scientists analyzing data looking for signs of frozen water.
12 hours ago
 
AI 'nose' predicts smells from molecular structures
Sep 2, 2023
 
Saturday Citations: Ancient corvids, tetraquarks, and researchers who aren't bored hearing about your dreams
Sep 2, 2023
 
Patrolling honey bees expose spread of antimicrobial resistance
Sep 2, 2023
 
From the moon to the sun: India launches next space mission
Sep 2, 2023
 
New research explains 'Atlantification' of the Arctic Ocean
Sep 1, 2023
 
SMART-BARN: A cutting-edge technology lab to study large animal groups
Sep 1, 2023
 
Groundwater depletion rates in India could triple in coming decades as climate warms, study warns
Sep 1, 2023
 
Hunting for supermassive black holes in the early universe
Sep 1, 2023
 
Seismologists use deep learning to forecast earthquakes
Sep 1, 2023
Related Stories
 
The 'woman who understood Newton'
Aug 29, 2013
 
Oral contraceptives may impact aspects of arthritis in women
Aug 18, 2015
 
Treasure trove of medieval manuscripts published
Dec 16, 2010
 
Egypt historical study shows 'traditional' marriage more modern than we think
Jun 16, 2015
 
Attention to angry faces can predict future depression
Jun 16, 2015
Detailed medical history best screening for preeclampsia
Aug 23, 2015
Recommended for you
 
Evidence shows that, in love, opposites don't actually attract
Aug 31, 2023
 
Speech and sun: New research on climate and how we speak
Aug 31, 2023
 
Study suggests most people watching extremist videos on YouTube already hold extremist views
Aug 31, 2023
 
Surprising study results: Students are bored during exams
Aug 30, 2023
 
How Norway is helping to restore humanity inside US prisons
Aug 30, 2023
 
Gender disparities limit chances for women PhD students training to be new inventors, says new research
Aug 28, 2023
Load comments (0)
 
Let us know if there is a problem with our content
Use this form if you have come across a typo, inaccuracy or would like to send an edit request for the content on this page.
For general inquiries, please use our  contact form.
For general feedback, use the public comments section below (please adhere to guidelines).
Please select the most appropriate category to facilitate processing of your request
 -- please select one -- 
Compliments / Critique
Typos / Errors / Inaccuracies
Edit / Removal request
Your message to the editors
Your  email  (only if you want to be contacted back)
Send Feedback
Thank you for taking time to provide your feedback to the editors.
Your feedback is important to us. However, we do not guarantee individual replies due to the high volume of messages. 
E-mail the story
Interest in women's history began much earlier than is assumed
Your friend's email
Your email
                                            I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more
Your name
Note
                                            Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose.
The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Phys.org in any form. 
                                        
Your message
Send
Newsletter sign up
Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox.
You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties.
Subscribe
More information
Privacy policy
Donate and enjoy an ad-free experience
                    We keep our content available to everyone.
                    Consider supporting Science X's mission by getting a premium account.
Remove ads
Maybe later
Medical Xpress
Medical research advances and health news
Tech Xplore
The latest engineering, electronics and technology advances
Science X
The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web
Newsletters
Subscribe
                                                Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
                                            
Follow us
Top
Home
Search
Mobile version
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Science X Account
Premium Account
Archive
News wire
Android app
iOS app
RSS feeds
Push notification
© Phys.org 2003 - 2023 powered by Science X Network
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Your Privacy
                    This site uses cookies to assist with navigation, analyse your use of our services, collect data for ads personalisation and provide content from third parties.
                    By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Privacy Policy
                    and Terms of Use.
                
Ok
Cookie options
E-mail newsletter
Subscribe
Follow us