More than just a card
68 captures
05 Jan 2009 - 26 Mar 2023
Dec
JAN
May
05
2008
2009
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20090105101826/http://thestar.com.my:80/news/story.asp?file=/2007/8/30/nation/18649549&sec=nation
Classifieds
Jobs
Property
Motoring
Kuali
Women
Youth
AllMalaysia
Global Malaysians
mStar
red fm
SuriaFM
988
Mobile
The Web
News
Classifieds
Stocks
Web search enhanced by 
 
 
News
Nation
World Updates
Courts
Parliament
Columnists
Opinion
Business
News
Market Watch
Bursa Malaysia
My Portfolio
Exchange Rates
Unit Trusts
Market Intelligence
IPO Watch
Company Ratings
Bonus & Dividends
Financial Results
Share Buybacks
Changes in Shareholdings
Broker's Call
Eye on Stocks
Supportline
Stock Watch
Snapshots
Currency Converter
BizWeek
Maritime
Multimedia
Gallery
TheStarOnline.tv
Interactive
Blogs
Citizen's Blog
FootBlog
Galaxie Blog
Trendsetter
Parent
Guy
Celeb Watch
AMBP Editor's Note
Thumbnails
Metro
Central
North
South & East
Sunday
Sports
Football
StarGolf
Lifestyle
Focus
Health
Living
Arts & Fashion
Bookshelf
Parenting
Travel & Adventure
AudioFile
Youth2
yum.my
Entertainment
Movies
2008 Releases
Coming Attractions
Movie Buzz
Making The Grade
Candy Counter
Music
Reviews
Sleeve Notes
Video
Reviews
TV & Radio
TV Guide
TV Tracks
Directory
Sound & Stage
Events
Online Games
Tech
News
Corporate IT
Home User
Reviews
Software
Computers
Peripherals/ Components/ Misc
Cellphones
PDAs
Digi/Video cams
Audio Players
Games
Features
Opinions
Editorials
Videos
Education
MyStar
More
What's Hot
Bookstore
Star Gadgets
Archives
Last 7 Days
365-Day Archives
Mind Our English
Comics
Directory
Site Map
About Us
Star Publications
The Star Online
News
Home > 
News > Nation
 
Nation
World Updates
Courts
Parliament
Columnists
Opinion
Honours List
 
Thursday August 30, 2007
More than just a card
How many of us truly understand the significance of carrying our IC? National Registration Department Director-General Datuk Abdul Halim Muhammad speaks on how the IC has evolved in our country and the exciting plans ahead for the agency.
 BY LEOW YONG MAY   THE recent case of the 19-year-old Sabahan who spent six months in jail for an identity card offence not only shook up the community, but created an awareness that the IC must be carried around at all times by everyone, young and old.  The law is clear – individuals caught without their MyKad can be fined between RM3,000 and RM20,000.   The Government wants the people to carry the MyKad because of the increasing problems related to illegal immigrants.  In a situation where a person’s identity is to be verified, MyKad can be used as proof.  “It is therefore not advisable to carry a photocopy of your original IC around because it isn’t valid. Only a genuine IC will be able to identify the person,” says Jainisah Mohd Noor, the NRD’s public relations officer. Easier and faster  Director-General Datuk Abdul Halim Muhammad said the process of getting a MyKad is very simple these days.  “Gone are the days when you have to wait for days or weeks. Members of the public can now obtain their MyKad within one working day. All one needs to do is to hand in the application form and relevant documents at the NRD headquarters and it will be processed within 24 hours.   “But if you apply at the nearest NRD branch, it would take 10 days for a card to be issued. At present, the 210 branches located around the country are responsible for providing replacement cards, amendments of particulars, defective ICs, and for first-time applicants.  “There is no need to lodge a police report whenever one has misplaced or lost the MyKad. Just head over to the headquarters in Putrajaya and apply for a new one,” says Abdul Halim.  “Our policy is to make the process as simple as possible.”  According to Abdul Hamid, the head office is capable of handling 500 applications a day.  However, the Director-General says despite the efficiency, a major problem is still with uncollected MyKads.  “People should be aware that a lot of money is wasted when we have to destroy MyKads that are not collected within two years,” says Abdul Hamid.  The NRD’s long-term vision, which the department hopes to realise within the next 10 years, is to be able to issue MyKad in an instant.  This “Wait & Return” project will expedite the application process, allowing the individual to have his or her MyKad right away. The NRD started a pilot project in Malacca last March.  When the system is implemented, it should take approximately two hours for the card to be processed. Going mobile  There are still some 300,000 citizens who have yet to change their ICs to the MyKad, The NRD has, therefore, set up Mobile MyKad Units to assist those who are unable to go to the branches or headquarters to apply for the card.   According to Abdul Hamid, members of the public who have not switched to MyKad are mostly elderly folks, mental patients, drug addicts in rehabilitation centres, as well as the aborigines living in the remote areas.  The mobile units are most active in Sabah and Sarawak. Just for kids  Since March 2003, the NRD has started issuing cards to children under the age of 12 years, called MyKid. MyKid is also a chip-based identity card similar to MyKad. MyKid, however, does not include a photograph and fingerprints. The identification number on MyKid can be used for all official matters, from birth to death. The card contains three main applications inside its chip:  NRD application (birth data)  Health information  Educational information   What’s in a name?  Names spelt in short forms, such as Mohd or Abd are not encouraged to be used on the MyKad. This is due to higher chances for the names to be pronounced as ‘Mod’ or ‘Ad’ when a citizen travels overseas.  To prevent scams, individuals born into royalty are required to obtain certification from the Istana in order for them to place their royal name on their IC.   For more information, visit www.jpn.gov.my or email pro@jpn.gov.my. 
More News
Nation Headlines
     Angkasawan probe to be finished in 2wks
     Retrenched young mother resorts to shoplifting
     Boycott US goods and currency: Dr M
     Wan Farid to be reappointed if he wins: Najib
     MCA Youth to study toll agreements
     Malaysian Indian ‘showdown’ in Chennai
     Quakes hit eastern Indonesia, killing 10yr-old
     US$1mil humanitarian aid for Palestine from M’sia
     Floods in Kelantan, Pahang, Terengganu (Update 1)
     M’sia wants UN special assembly on Palestine (updated)
     Toll agreements made public for the first time
     Over 100 railway level crossings deemed unsafe
     Tee Keat: Stop arguing, work for the people
     ISA not invoked to punish
     Karpal calls on PAS chief to revoke hudud plan
     OIC should send peacekeepers to Gaza, says Dr Zahid
     Mamma Mia! bids goodbye
     40 charged in Sabah over hijacked bank accounts
     Missing teen found dead in a drain
     Misconception keeping women away from engineering
     TV newscaster and actress freed on bail
     Gerakan: Declassify NSE deal
     Mum of nine needs help again
     Hokkien song contest winner who does not speak the dialect
     MCA to send delegation to Beijing
     No phantom voters, says EC
     Chinese voters may be BN’s trump card
     Chinatown’s wish list
     Dancing queens set the tone
     Caution – badly designed road ahead
     Body of murdered man found
     No lobbying in Tuanku Muhriz’s appointment, says Negri chieftain
     Youth drowns while retrieving fishing hook
     Mouth injuries stall abduction probe
     Wan Ahmad gives up senatorship
     RTM to give balanced coverage
     Muhyiddin: Focus on by-election
     30,000 miss school because of floods
     Kedah pupils and parents kickstart the year’s new session
     Pakatan reps deny rift claims
     MIC panel to probe contract awards
     Muar cops flush out illegals during ops
     15-year-old suspected motorcycle thief held
     Border sweep for cop attackers
     300 protest over sackings of  two union officials
     Man hurt in assault by son
     Stranded campers rescued at waterfall
     Bogus officials nabbed in raids
     Tudung-clad teens who are hooked on sex
     Cop nabbed for raping six-year-old niece
     ‘Don’t let up on keeping tabs on your children’
Go
 
Most Viewed
Most E-mailed
Tudung-clad teens who are hooked on sex
TV newscaster and actress freed on bail
Missing teen found dead in a drain
Invest wisely
1 Utama now home to two-storey interactive multimedia hub
Chewing the fat
Toll agreements made public for the first time
Buses and bus stop vandalised
Mums rule in the kitchen
Karpal calls on PAS chief to revoke hudud plan
No phantom voters, says EC
Chinatown’s wish list
Angkasawan probe to be finished in 2wks
Retrenched young mother resorts to shoplifting
Boycott US goods and currency: Dr M
Wan Farid to be reappointed if he wins: Najib
Shippers yet to bounce back from devastating year
Warriors league player presumed drowned
MCA Youth to study toll agreements
Ssangyong Motor workers vote on strike
Latest Jobs from Star-Jobs
Sales Executive
Manager, Corporate Finance
Naval Architect
Legal Manager
QA / QC Engineer
Management Trainees
Production Trainees
Plant Operators
QA Assistant
Maintenance Trainee
 
 
Site Map
FAQ
Privacy Statement
Terms Of Use
Write To Us
Advertise With Us
 RSS
Copyright © 1995-2009 Star Publications (M) Bhd (Co No 10894-D) Managed by I.Star
 