Our legal case against Turkey’s block of Wikipedia has been expedited. Here's what that means. – Wikimedia Foundation
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
News
Our legal case against Turkey’s block of Wikipedia has been expedited. Here’s what that means.
By Wikimedia Foundation•22 July 2019 
 
In an important step, the European Court of Human Rights has decided to give our case priority status, signaling its wider public importance and reinforcing our hope that a final decision could create new precedent on how information is shared online and states' attempts to limit the free flow of information.
Today, the Wikimedia Foundation welcomes the news that our case brought before  the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) to lift the block of Wikipedia in Turkey has been communicated to the Turkish Government and given priority status by the court, just two months after the case was filed with the court. Priority status is granted rarely and reserved for the most important, serious, and urgent cases before the court and signals the critical impact our case could have in curbing government censorship online.
Two years ago, the Turkish government blocked Wikipedia. We believe free access to knowledge and freedom of expression are fundamental human rights, and by blocking Wikipedia, the Turkish government violated these rights for everyone living in the country. After extensive discussions with the Turkish government and challenging the block in Turkish courts, we were left with no choice but to bring our petition to the ECHR, an international court which hears cases of human rights violations within the Council of Europe.
The court’s new designation for our case is significant for a number of reasons.
Granting our case priority status means it will likely proceed at a faster rate than other cases typically do. Cases before the ECHR can take months or even years to get to where we are now. The Government of Turkey has until late October to submit its observations in the case to the court. We hope this case will uphold peoples’ fundamental rights to freedom of expression.
The case may also help set precedent for future decisions in the area of governments limiting access to information, and comes at a time when we’ve seen a rise in government censorship online globally.
Why is this important?
Wikipedia is written by the world, for the world. It is a completely free source of knowledge. Anyone in the world should be free to contribute knowledge to the site. Equally, anyone should be free to read its pages and learn more about the world around them. But not everyone in the world is free to do these things. And when Wikipedia, and other sources of free knowledge, are censored and blocked in parts of the world, we all suffer. The people living within the impacted areas lose access to one of the modern wonders of the world and are cut off from millions of topics that could inspire creation and innovation.
The rest of the world loses out on the perspectives of the people inside these areas—their histories, their cultures, and their unique sources of knowledge created and maintained over thousands of years.
People deserve the chance to discover for themselves the facts about the world they live in. They deserve the ability to give back and to contribute their perspective and worldview to the digital commons we all share. When any free knowledge is censored, we’re all the worse for it.
We urge the Turkish government to unblock Wikipedia and once again let the people of Turkey join in sharing and participating in free knowledge.
If you believe in our cause, here are two things you can do:
Use #ForFreeKnowledge and #UnblockWikipedia on Twitter to let people know you support efforts to unblock Wikipedia in Turkey.
Make a donation to the Wikimedia Foundation to support our efforts to keep Wikipedia’s knowledge freely accessible in countries around the world.
 
• • •
For the Wikimedia Foundation’s formal statement about the ECHR’s decision to expedite our legal case, please see our press release.
Read more
Advocacy,Turkey,Wikipedia block 
Related
Read further in the pursuit of knowledge
 
Wikimedia Foundation urges Pakistan Telecommunications Authority to restore access to Wikipedia in Pakistan
Advocacy Legal Wikipedia 
On Friday, February 3, 2023, Pakistan’s Telecommunications Authority blocked Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects. The Wikimedia Foundation calls on Pakistan to restore access to Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects in the country immediately.
3 February 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
European Court of Human Rights case dismissed after two years of access to Wikipedia being restored in Turkey
Advocacy Community Legal Wikipedia 
Today, the European Court of Human Rights announced that it is dismissing the Wikimedia Foundation’s 2019 petition to lift the block of Wikipedia in Turkey. The case was dismissed because access to Wikipedia was restored by the Turkish government in January 2020 and the block was already determined to be a human rights violation in….
24 March 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
İki buçuk yıldan uzun zamanın ardından Türkiye’den Wikipedia’ya erişim açıldı
Advocacy Community Wikipedia 
Bugün, Wikipedia’nın 19. doğum gününde, Wikimedia Vakfı Türkiye’den Wikipedia’ya erişimin yeniden açılmakta olduğuna ilişkin haberler aldı.* Bu son gelişme, Anayasa Mahkemesi’nin Türkiye yetkililerinin iki buçuk yıldan uzun süren engelini 26 Aralık 2019 kararı ile anayasaya aykırı bulmasının ardından gerçekleşti. Bugün erken saatlerde Anayasa Mahkemesi kararın tam metnini kamuya açık olarak paylaştı, hemen ardından Wikipedia’ya erişimin….
15 January 2020
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
Photo credits
 
Blue Mosque Courtyard Dusk Wikimedia Commons
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Benh LIEU SONG
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Wikimedia - Pakistan - PR - 2-3-23
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Rana Usman Shakoor
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR)- Court room
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
CherryX
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Welcome back Turkey graphic - Turkish
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.