Global Taxon Reviews
About PensoftBooksJournalsNews & BlogContact
Register |
Login
 
Full Text
Author
Title
Submit manuscript
About
Articles
Issues
Topical collections
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Contacts
In this collection
Papers published: 1
Documents added: 13
Printed version: Paperback
Global Taxon Reviews
Sort by:
Publication date newest
Publication date oldest
Total views
Unique views
Best match
Citations countHighly accessed (last month)Highly accessed (last 3 months)Highly accessed (last 6 months)Highly accessed (last year)
Edited by Michael Engel, Fedor Konstantinov
The Global Taxon Reviews is a topical collection of papers in the field of zoology that aims to provide comprehensive and up-to-date reviews of suprageneric taxa of significant diversity, with a special emphasis on taxonomy, phylogeny, and other aspects of taxon-centered biodiversity exploration. These reviews are intended to serve as authoritative resources for researchers, students, and enthusiasts interested in the inventorying, classification, evolutionary relationships of animals, and other related topics.
Each paper in the collection focuses on an entire taxonomic group, such as a class, order, family, subfamily or tribe, of any zoological taxon. Large genera distributed over one or more continents can be considered for publication in the collection as well. The authors of the papers should be proven experts in their respective fields, with extensive experience and knowledge of the group in question. 
The reviews are typically structured to provide a comprehensive overview of a taxon, including information on its morphology, ecology, and distribution. A particular focus is placed on the phylogenetic relationships of the group. Priority will be given to manuscripts that specifically concentrate on widely distributed taxa. Manuscripts primarily focusing on high-ranked monotypic taxa can also be considered, but only if they are discussed within a broader context. We also encourage illustrated identification keys, as they provide an efficient way to recognize taxa. 
The Global Taxon Reviews collection is designed to be a valuable resource for both researchers and students in the field of zoology, as well as for anyone interested in learning more about animal diversity and classification. By providing authoritative and up-to-date reviews of higher taxa, these papers can help in advancing our understanding of the astonishing diversity of animals at a global scale.
Realizing the importance of this series to the scientific community, the editorial team will consider special conditions for publication in the Global Taxon Reviews collection, including potential high discounts or waivers. These conditions will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, taking into account individual circumstances and the overall merit of the manuscript.
 10.3897/zookeys.coll.221
Research Article
﻿Stingless bee classification and biology (Hymenoptera, Apidae): a review, with an updated key to genera and subgenera
    Michael S. Engel,     Claus Rasmussen,     Ricardo Ayala,     Favízia F. de Oliveira
10.3897/zookeys.1172.104944
  27-07-2023
  Unique: 2426 | Total: 3451
 | Access Period: 
  Reprint: € 26,70
  239-312
HTML
XML
PDF
ABOUT PENSOFT
Company Profile
Innovations & Tools
Open Access & APC Policies
Terms of Use
Editorial Policies
PRODUCTS
Journals
Advanced Books
Conventional Books
Conference Abstracts
Conference Proceedings
SERVICES
For Authors
For Journals
For Books
For Conferences
For Organisations
PROJECTS
Research Projects
Services
Partners
Brochure
ARPHA
ARPHA Publishing Platform
ARPHA Manual
ARPHA Pricing
Web Services
GET IN TOUCH
Contacts
Publishing Inquiry
Migrate Your Journal
Open a New Journal
Follow PENSOFT
Blog & News
Subscribe
Media Center
© Pensoft Publishers 2023
This website uses cookies in order to improve your web experience. Read our Cookies Policy
OK