Babel by R. F. Kuang - Ebook | Scribd
Open navigation menuClose suggestionsSearchSearchenChange Languageclose menuLanguageEnglish(selected)EspañolPortuguêsDeutschFrançaisРусскийItalianoRomânăBahasa IndonesiaLearn moreUploadLoading...User Settingsclose menuWelcome to Scribd!UploadLanguage (EN)Read for freeFAQ and supportSign inSkip carouselCarousel PreviousCarousel NextWhat is Scribd?Ebooks(selected)AudiobooksMagazinesPodcastsSheet musicDocumentsExplore EbooksCategoriesBestsellersEditors' PicksAll EbooksContemporary FictionLiterary FictionReligion & SpiritualitySelf-ImprovementPersonal GrowthHome & GardenGardeningMystery, Thriller & Crime FictionSuspenseTrue CrimeScience Fiction & FantasyYoung AdultDystopianParanormal, Occult & SupernaturalRomanceHistorical FictionScience & MathematicsHistoryStudy Aids & Test PrepBusinessSmall Business & EntrepreneursAll categoriesExplore AudiobooksCategoriesBestsellersEditors' PicksAll audiobooksMystery, Thriller & Crime FictionMysteryThrillersRomanceContemporarySuspenseYoung AdultParanormal, Occult & SupernaturalMysteries & ThrillersScience Fiction & FantasyScience FictionDystopianCareer & GrowthCareersLeadershipBiography & MemoirAdventurers & ExplorersHistoricalReligion & SpiritualityInspirationalNew Age & SpiritualityAll categoriesExplore MagazinesCategoriesEditors' PicksAll magazinesNewsBusiness NewsEntertainment NewsPoliticsTech NewsFinance & Money ManagementPersonal FinanceCareer & GrowthLeadershipBusinessStrategic PlanningSports & RecreationPetsGames & ActivitiesVideo GamesWellnessExercise & FitnessCooking, Food & WineArtHome & GardenCrafts & HobbiesAll categoriesExplore PodcastsAll podcastsCategoriesReligion & SpiritualityNewsEntertainment NewsMystery, Thriller & Crime FictionTrue CrimeHistoryPoliticsSocial ScienceAll categoriesGenreClassicalCountryFolkJazz & BluesMovies & MusicalsPop & RockReligious & HolidayStandardsInstrumentBrassDrums & PercussionGuitar, Bass, and FrettedPianoStringsVocalWoodwindsDifficultyBeginnerIntermediateAdvancedExplore DocumentsCategoriesAcademic PapersBusiness TemplatesCourt FilingsAll documentsSports & RecreationBodybuilding & Weight TrainingBoxingMartial ArtsReligion & SpiritualityChristianityJudaismNew Age & SpiritualityBuddhismIslamArtMusicPerforming ArtsWellnessBody, Mind, & SpiritWeight LossSelf-ImprovementTechnology & EngineeringPoliticsPolitical ScienceAll categoriesEnjoy millions of ebooks, audiobooks, magazines, and more, with a free trialOnly R$ 27,99/month after trial. Cancel anytime.Ebook865 pages15 hoursBabel: Or the Necessity of Violence: An Arcane History of the Oxford Translators' RevolutionShow full titleBy R. F. KuangRating: 4 out of 5 stars4/5(171 ratings)Switch to audiobookStart your free  daysRead previewSaveDownloadShareShare titleAbout this ebookInstant #1 New York Times Bestseller from the author of The Poppy War  “Absolutely phenomenal. One of the most brilliant, razor-sharp books I've had the pleasure of reading that isn't just an alternative fantastical history, but an interrogative one; one that grabs colonial history and the Industrial Revolution, turns it over, and shakes it out.” -- Shannon Chakraborty, bestselling author of The City of BrassFrom award-winning author R. F. Kuang comes Babel, a thematic response to The Secret History and a tonal retort to Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell that grapples with student revolutions, colonial resistance, and the use of language and translation as the dominating tool of the British empire.Traduttore, traditore: An act of translation is always an act of betrayal.1828. Robin Swift, orphaned by cholera in Canton, is brought to London by the mysterious Professor Lovell. There, he trains for years in Latin, Ancient Greek, and Chinese, all in preparation for the day he’ll enroll in Oxford University’s prestigious Royal Institute of Translation—also known as Babel.Babel is the world's center for translation and, more importantly, magic. Silver working—the art of manifesting the meaning lost in translation using enchanted silver bars—has made the British unparalleled in power, as its knowledge serves the Empire’s quest for colonization.For Robin, Oxford is a utopia dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge. But knowledge obeys power, and as a Chinese boy raised in Britain, Robin realizes serving Babel means betraying his motherland. As his studies progress, Robin finds himself caught between Babel and the shadowy Hermes Society, an organization dedicated to stopping imperial expansion. When Britain pursues an unjust war with China over silver and opium, Robin must decide…Can powerful institutions be changed from within, or does revolution always require violence? Read moreSkip carouselCarousel PreviousCarousel NextFantasyLiterary FictionAlternative HistoryGeneral FictionLanguageEnglishPublisherHarperCollinsRelease dateAug 23, 2022ISBN9780063021440Switch to audiobookStart your free  daysRead previewSave for laterDownload to appShareShare titleRelated categoriesSkip carouselCarousel PreviousCarousel NextScience Fiction & FantasyIdentity & Culture FictionMarriage & DivorceSouthernFeministReviews for BabelRating: 4 out of 5 stars4/5171 ratings13 reviewsWhat did you think?Rate as 1 out of 5, 1 stars. Rate as 2 out of 5, 2 stars. Rate as 3 out of 5, 3 stars. Rate as 4 out of 5, 4 stars. Rate as 5 out of 5, 5 stars. Tap to rateWrite a reviewReview must be at least 10 wordspgchuisRating: 4 out of 5 stars4/5This is not a genre I typically read, and I did struggle a bit with the whole silver/magic aspect - I'm not sure what it added to England's empirical ambitions over and above what actually happened in history. I also found it hard to remember that the story was set in the Victorian era - many of the attitudes and speech patterns were very modern.On the other hand, I thought Robin's character was very well drawn, and there were a couple of truly shocking moments in the plot, even if it did drag out a bit at the end. On a very minor point, the asterisks denoting a footnote were so tiny I kept failing to spot them in the main text.Recommended.Read moreridgewaygirlRating: 4 out of 5 stars4/5Speculative fiction and alternate histories are very much not my thing. I'm also bad at listening to audiobooks. But this turned out to be the one audiobook novel that worked for me. I think I liked it far more than I would have had I read it as a traditional book, because it's told in a straightforward way, plot-driven and with characters that are YA in their simplicity (although this is not a YA novel). The book centers on a Dickensian protagonist; Robin Swift is a child when he is found laying next to his mother's dead body in a plague-ridden Canton. Rescued by an Oxford professor, he is taken to London to be rigorously trained in languages so he can study language and translation at the famous Babel tower in Oxford. Translators are necessary to the production and maintenance of "silver," a magical substance that fuels the British Empire, allowing it to colonize and rule countries around the globe. Robin is needed because of his Chinese language skills, and his fellow students are largely (but not entirely) chosen because their native languages are unspoken by the English. As he learns more and meets more people, he comes to see that he is being used in the British war for domination and he discovers a secret society that is fighting back. For the most part, this is an adventure story, of the kind common in the genre. What separates it from the usual is the detail and ingenuity of the world-building, how well it's written and especially for the ways it discusses translation and colonialism. Sure, the characters were largely exactly who they seemed to be -- the bad guys very bad, the good guys pure of heart and the twists and turns not exactly out of the ordinary, but the way this novel talked about translation and colonialism and how they are tied together, has resonance in this non-imaginary world and were anything but simplistic; they were fascinating.Read morejmchshannonRating: 5 out of 5 stars5/5Babel by R. F. Kuang is, without a doubt, the best book I’ve read this year. Its theme of language usage is a fascinating commentary on imperialism, revolution, and resistance. As compelling as the story is, and it delivers a little nugget of insight on almost every page, the language of the story is the true star of Babel. Ms. Kuang’s writing style is perfect. While it most definitely is prose, each sentence has a beauty that feels like poetry. Between the story, that magical setting that is Oxford, and the language, Babel left me in awe. I cannot recommend it highly enough.Read morestrider66_1Rating: 4 out of 5 stars4/5Pros: thought provoking, great characters, fascinating discussionsCons: ending gets brutal, tension drags onWhen Robin is saved from cholera in Canton and brought to England his life becomes one of study and languages. He’s sent to Oxford’s translation department, where silver bars are inscribed with words that - like magic - power much of Britain’s modernization. The others in his program have also suffered to be a part of it. But they realize their successes are designed to only benefit the British Empire, not the homelands they were torn from and whose languages the silverworking magic is based on.This is a brilliant book. I found the frequent etymological breakdown of words and the discussions on translation fascinating. The author did an excellent job of showing the fallacies of colonialist thought. It was such a thought provoking story.The characters were all well fleshed out. Robin is such a conflicted character, not fitting into white society but also no longer Chinese. Told to feel grateful for the opportunities he’s been given but aware that he’s been given no choice regarding his future. I loved Ramy and Victoire and their perspectives on things. I wasn’t as keen on Letty, but she was still an interesting character. I appreciated that we get to see interludes from their perspectives, giving more information about their backgrounds and allowing us to see what led to their convictions.Towards the end of the book the tension ramps up. It stays high so long though that I found myself needing a break from the book. There is a section of the book towards the end that gets quite brutal, with a lot of people dying in quick succession. It’s not overly graphic, though there is a torture scene. The book also contains period accurate slurs which may be distressing to read.The book has footnotes, which is great as they give some authorial asides and additional information that’s not essential for the story but fun nonetheless. They also make the book feel more scholarly. They are marked by as star (*) after the text. Clicking the mark is supposed to hyperlink you to the explanatory note at the back of the book. Unfortunately, the first time I tried this is just turned the page, so I didn’t realize it worked (I guess you have to be very careful to hit the star). I ended up using bookmarks to flip between them, but the footnotes aren’t numbered, so I had to be careful to check each one and move my bookmarks so I didn’t lose my place in the 100+ pages of footnotes.If you like languages and alternate history, though brutal at times, this is a brilliant read you’ll be thinking of for some time after you close the book.Read morejillmwo-74323Rating: 5 out of 5 stars5/5A young boy is rescued from poverty amidst a cholera epidemic in Canton, China. He becomes the ward of a faculty member of Oxford University. His facility with languages is fostered and bolstered so that he will be able to join Oxford when he comes of age – specifically as a part of Babel. Babel is a distinctly academic research environment in support of silver-magic which operates as technological infrastructure in this alternate version of 1830’s England. It's driven by translation and understanding of linguistic meaning.This is an excellent read if not a relaxing one. One should probably pay attention to the subtitle which is Or the Necessity of Violence: An Arcane History of the Oxford Translators' Revolution. When I began reading, I suppose I was expecting run-of-the-mill fantasy -- a coming-of-age story, perhaps with dragons flying over Oxford University or something more eldritch. After a very slow initial build of character and environment, even when I thought I was able to guess in advance where the story was going, the twists would catch me off guard. I would fully expect this one to be up for a Hugo next year. The story arc escalates and escalates and escalates as it examines the faults and failures of imperialistic trade and colonial exploitation. There is a wicked and emotional punch by the close.The author is currently pursuing a PhD in linguistics at Yale (and she's done a brilliant job at explaining to the casual reader some of the challenges associated with translation work).Read moreeyejaybeeRating: 5 out of 5 stars5/5I am not sure where to start with this novel, which I found utterly enthralling. Every now and again one comes across a novel which is so different to anything one has read before, and which strikes such a powerful chord, that one is actually pulled up short by it. This was definitely such a book for me. What somehow makes it even more marvellous was that I came upon it largely by chance. I had been making my customary post payday bookhaul at Daunt Books in Marylebone, and was queuing to pay when I heard the woman at the counter discussing it with another customer. I hadn’t heard of it, or noticed the impressive pile of copies at the counter, but she made it sound so enticing that, weak willed as I always am at the suggestion of a new book, I succumbed and quickly added it to my stash. A serendipitous and rewarding decision.In terms of genre, it is, I suppose, a work of fantasy or mild science fiction, offering an alternative version of nineteenth century history. In the world of this book, much of the British Empire has been established and maintained through the manipulation of the magical properties of silver, which when engraved with certain words, releases amazing powers. The words to be engraved are etymologically linked matched pairs of words from current English and their philological cognates ... What! Is that not clear enough? Well it might prove to be too longwinded for me to try to explain her, and I am, a bit of a philology nerd myself. R F Kuang, however, explains it all admirably, and while I am not overly fond of fantasy works, among which I suppose this marvellous novel might most closely be grouped, I found no trouble at all in suspending any shred of disbelief.The book has so much to offer. Along with some finely drawn characters, it gives the reader a fascinating insight into the growth and development of language, with a series of painless lessons into social and imperial history of the nineteenth century.Robin Swift, as the principal protagonist comes to be known, is born in Canton in the 1820s and is orphaned at the age of ten when his impoverished mother succumbs to plague. Robin had never known who his father was, but discovers that he has been supported by an English professor, who takes hm on as a ward, moving him to England and supporting him throughout a private education designed to secure him a place at Oxford University. All that his guardian asks is that Robin work as hard as he can to learn the various languages prescribed by the professor. Robin duly secures a place at the prestigious University College, Oxford, and a scholarship attend the world-renowned Royal Institute of Translation. The Institute, known as Babel, is the heart of the silver production that has powered Britain’s Industrial Revolution and supported the growth of the Empire’. At the Institute, Robin befriends three other students who have also shown exceptional skill at the acquisition of other languages, and they form a close-knit group. This all sounds fairly jolly so far, but there are darker undercurrents in play. Robin’s clear Chinese heritage has occasionally resulted in him being marked out for instances of discrimination and racial slurs. Even so, his experience has not been as bad as that of two of the other member s of the group, Ramy and Victoire. Ramy is from India while Victoire is from Haiti, and they are both subjected to clear racism of the vilest nature, while Victoire also has to combat the rampant gender discrimination of the time, which did not look kindly at women seeking an academic career. The fourth member of the group is Letty, daughter of an English admiral who has had to bear the weight of his disappointment that she had not been born male.Their work revolves around mastering the art of translation. This is not merely the rendering of classic works of literature into English, but discovering closely related pairs of words between two languages that might be used to imbue the silver bars with new properties that could be harnessed in ever new ways.R F Kuang is clearly a very deft linguist herself, and has studied the spread of languages, and their historical growth. I too spent much of my own time as a student and aspiring academic delving into the philology and spread of the Indo-European languages (especially the North Germanic ones), and finding wonder in the semantic shift that such studies revealed. I was pleased to see that one of Kuang’s characters recounted the history of the word ‘Knight’ that I remember expounding to my students. Yet, despite her mastery of difficult subjects, she applies it with a light touch, and the book does not become mired in the technicalities of linguistics which (apparently) some people occasionally find challenging.The story is well plotted, and conveys a vivid sense of nineteenth century England, and the cloistered atmosphere of academia. The book does not shy away from uncomfortable subjects. Robin comes to see his hitherto privileged life since the death of his mother in different terms, and there are powerful arguments highlighting the horrors of the slavery, and also some of the hypocrisy that followed its formal abolition, where the practice remained but hidden with more comfortable nomenclature. It also casts a disdainful perspective on the horrors of British imperialism. Unfortunately, it is difficult to construct any cogent defence.My one tiny cavil about the book is a typological one – there are frequent enlightening footnotes, but the asterisks that indicate them are, to my aging eyes, often scarcely noticeable.Read morerivkat_2Rating: 5 out of 5 stars5/5et in an alternate world where Britain rules the seas and much of the land in part because of its near-monopoly on the magical powers of silver through its near-monopoly on translation. If properly inscribed and activated by a translator, silver can perform wonders based on nearly-matching pairs of words with slightly different meanings in different languages. Robin, a young Cantonese boy whose mother dies of illness, is taken by a British scholar to train as a translator at Oxford, the heart of silverworking and translation. He learns to love translation but also experiences discrimination and discovers the oppressive foundations of the world that makes him mostly happy. Because it was Kuang, I was desperately worried for the fates of the characters I grew to care about, and many do come to unhappy ends. The magic system and associated discussion of translation is fascinating; the politics are both pessimistic and fiery, a bit crude like real political arguments are.Read moreantao-3Rating: 1 out of 5 stars1/5Mr Leopold Bloom's solution for constipation in general (from James Joyce's "Ulysses"):"Quietly he read, restraining himself, the first column and, yielding but resisting, began the second. Midway, his last resistance yielding, he allowed his bowels to ease themselves quietly as he read, reading still patiently, that slight constipation of yesterday quite gone. Hope it's not too big bring on piles again. No, just right. So. Ah! Costive one tabloid of cascara sagrada."As a kid we could never afford laxatives so my dad use to sit me on my potty and tell me ghost stories. Sometimes when I was at my granny’s house, I used to scream across the house for my sibling to bring some rhubarb compote. In more contemporary terms, my wife would phone me at work to let me know she was breaking a duck right now. I guess I've been lucky to have such a frank women in my life, or maybe the mutual attraction came from us both being full of shit.This novel is virtually unreadable with all the physical and mental punishments Robin Swift suffers as well as other speaking styles replicated in dialogue and also plot that moves with the pace of a constipated snail. I’d advise Kuang that the easiest was to get rid of narrative constipation is to eat undercooked chicken manufactured in the US. Then follow up with Imodium once cleared out. Of course, after diarrhoea you often get even worse constipation. So, not sure how good an advice this is…After the awful “The Poppy War”, it appears that SF writers nowadays can be divided into two types - those who get constipated frequently (narratively speaking), and those who don't, but who verge on diarrhoea for some of the time. I don't know which type is preferable though.This novel is what SF has come down to. Some SF writers are so bunged up that it’s nigh on impossible to read them. SF = Speculative Fiction.Read moreshrike58Rating: 4 out of 5 stars4/5When this book first came to my attention I had two primary thoughts. First, that it was great to be getting more fiction from Ms. Kuang, as she herself wasn't sure that she had another novel in her. However, there is also the small matter that I'm not a particular enthusiast of 19th-century British literature, and it was not clear how the concept I was being presented was going to work.So, having engaged with "Babel," I come away with mixed feelings. The prose is polished, Robin Swift (the main POV) is believable, and Kuang does get her points across. That might be the major issue; whatever else this book is it's a polemic, and polemics should be short and sharp, as opposed to being narrative bricks. Another point is that I tend to agree with the folks who think that Kuang could do better with her antagonists, and this is speaking as someone who is far from enthralled with the image of the British Empire. Three, in regards to the climax, this only makes sense if you appreciate that, for Chinese patriots and sympathizers, the First Opium War was where matters all went wrong for China, setting in train events that, into the current day, give you the atrocities of the Chinese Communist Party. Violence committed in the name of averting the disaster of colonization could be argued to be worth it.In the end then, I'm left with the opinion that this book is an interesting experiment that I was happy to have the chance to read, but which doesn't quite hit the mark.Also, as a public service, those interested in the real history of this period might wish to read Stephen R. Platt's "Imperial Twilight," which deals with how poor communications and imperial arrogance in both Beijing and London contributed to disaster. Whatever caveats I may have about Kuang's execution, it's thematically on target.Read moreblack2lillyRating: 3 out of 5 stars3/5I thought it was boring, well written but boring.I understand the need to explain how language works, so that the magic makes sense, but having a literal lecture on translation philosophy is a bit too much. (Zuviel des Guten.) Already found that boring in university, don't need that in a novel either.There is also a huge plot hole or confusion about the grammaticas.On the one hand it is said that there are back ups all over the place which are updated yearly, yet, if a fire would destroy the tower decades of research would be lost. What is it now? *spoiler begin*That's a reason why I thought the whole idea of bringing the tower down was illogical. The main part of the work was still available in other places, especially if they were updated annually. Yes,  occupying the tower because of the resonance sticks made sense but destroying it didn't. "spoiler end"Other than that, the whole story was at times too slow moving, and even though I liked the characters, who were nicely developed, I actually fell asleep a couple of times while reading.I am giving three stars because Kuang has a nice writing style and voice and because the ending made up for a lot of the sluggishness in the beginning. (Yet, she could have went on with the allegory of the Bible, are languages now strewn around the world again and no one understands each other anymore?)Read moreneedmoreshelvesRating: 5 out of 5 stars5/5I have been struggling to find words adequate to describe this brilliant novel, and I know I won't be able to do it justice, but I am determined to try.I've seen Babel described as the author's love-hate letter to academia, and I think that's a great, succinct summation. This is a novel about education, in all it's wonders and horrors; about the ways words and ideas can be used for good and for evil; about the ways that learning can make a life more full, and the ways it can make a life more desperate. If you like novels about school, this will be for you.This novel explores the ideas of colonization and empire, the ones in power and the ones oppressed. Each of its four main characters are, in different ways, victims of the structures of power. Each character experiences that victimization in different but equally damaging ways. Watching these four grow in friendship and admiration for each other; misunderstand and hurt each other; betray and defend each other - this is magnificent and heartbreaking to read. Each character's small angers are so clear and understandable, that when they reach their breaking points it seems inevitable, even as their rages cause consequences that cannot be forseen.This book was like nothing I've read before. It was emotional, and infuriating, and rich, and satisfying. It broke my heart. It is a masterpiece.Read moreladycatoRating: 3 out of 5 stars3/5I received an advance copy via NetGalley.Babel is a complicated work of fantasy, and requires a complicated review. It takes place in an alt history 19th century, wherein the might of the British empire is being empowered through the strength of magic derived from the use of silver and linguistic word play. The narrative primarily follows Robin, born and raised in China. After his mother dies, he's taken in by a white Oxford professor and brought to England, where his linguistic skills are cultivated with a goal of eventual education at the great tower known as Babel in Oxford. As a work of research, this book is masterful. Kuang knows languages, knows Oxford, and this is a novel that word geeks will delight in... or like me, delight in to a point. The book succeeds in channeling an academic voice, footnotes and all, and is a slog to read. The plot isn't big on action, but on revelation. The deep criticism of colonialism and empire-building is fascinating, educational, and quite often horrific, because it's very clear that everything is based on fact even if given a magical bent. The characters are incredibly well-done, too, complex and real. If you've read Kuang's other books, you know she handles the dark shades of people with deftness, and she does so again here.The book slowly yet surely built up to an ending that left me surprised only in that the major point of plot resolution was blatant very early on. I expected it to go a different way but it didn't, leaving me feeling flat at the conclusion.Read morehccpskRating: 4 out of 5 stars4/5In the author’s note at the beginning of Babel, R.F. Kuang’s final thought is, “...feel free to remind yourself this is a work of fiction.” In her alternate 19th century England, linguists learned to harness the power of language and embed it into silver bars with magical consequences that the wealthy whites use to dominate the world. Snatched from his home in Canton, Robin Swift is raised by Professor Lovell in England with one purpose —to attend Oxford and use his skill will language to become one of the famous translators and silver workers. Kuang weaves a complicated tale of friendship, language, colonialism, and foreignness as Robin and his Oxford cohorts work their way through school and realize how the world really works.  Readers who heed Kuang’s advice and can let go of reality will be rewarded with the pleasure of this book; readers who cannot will remain frustrated and hung up on the anachronisms and the modern people, ideas, and language. So bring your patience for convoluted linguistic explanations, footnotes, and speculative details and enjoy this well-written and heartbreaking novel.Read moreBook previewBabel - R. F. KuangBook I Chapter One Que siempre la lengua fue compañera del imperio; y de tal manera lo siguió, que junta mente començaron, crecieron y florecieron, y después junta fue la caida de entrambos. Language was always the companion of empire, and as such, together they begin, grow, and flourish. And later, together, they fall. ANTONIO DE NEBRIJA, Gramática de la lengua castellana By the time Professor Richard Lovell found his way through Canton’s narrow alleys to the faded address in his diary, the boy was the only one in the house left alive. The air was rank, the floors slippery. A jug of water sat full, untouched by the bed. At first the boy had been too scared of retching to drink; now he was too weak to lift the jug. He was still conscious, though he’d sunk into a drowsy, half-dreaming haze. Soon, he knew, he’d fall into a deep sleep and fail to wake up. That was what had happened to his grandparents a week ago, then his aunts a day after, and then Miss Betty, the Englishwoman, a day after that. His mother had perished that morning. He lay beside her body, watching as the blues and purples deepened across her skin. The last thing she’d said to him was his name, two syllables mouthed without breath. Her face had then gone slack and uneven. Her tongue lolled out of her mouth. The boy tried to close her filmy eyes, but her lids kept sliding back open. No one answered when Professor Lovell knocked. No one exclaimed in surprise when he kicked through the front door – locked, because plague thieves were stripping the houses in the neighbourhood bare, and though there was little of value in their home, the boy and his mother had wanted a few hours of peace before the sickness took them too. The boy heard all the commotion from upstairs, but he couldn’t bring himself to care. By then he only wanted to die. Professor Lovell made his way up the stairs, crossed the room, and stood over the boy for a long moment. He did not notice, or chose not to notice, the dead woman on the bed. The boy lay still in his shadow, wondering if this tall, pale figure in black had come to reap his soul. ‘How do you feel?’ Professor Lovell asked. The boy’s breathing was too laboured to answer. Professor Lovell knelt beside the bed. He drew a slim silver bar out of his front pocket and placed it over the boy’s bare chest. The boy flinched; the metal stung like ice. ‘Triacle,’ Professor Lovell said first in French. Then, in English, ‘Treacle.’ The bar glowed a pale white. There came an eerie sound from nowhere; a ringing, a singing. The boy whined and curled onto his side, his tongue prodding confusedly around his mouth. ‘Bear with it,’ murmured Professor Lovell. ‘Swallow what you taste.’ Seconds trickled by. The boy’s breathing steadied. He opened his eyes. He saw Professor Lovell more clearly now, could make out the slate-grey eyes and curved nose – yīnggōubí, they called it, a hawk’s-beak nose – that could only belong on a foreigner’s face. ‘How do you feel now?’ asked Professor Lovell. The boy took another deep breath. Then he said, in surprisingly good English, ‘It’s sweet. It tastes so sweet . . .’ ‘Good. That means it worked.’ Professor Lovell slipped the bar back into his pocket. ‘Is there anyone else alive here?’ ‘No,’ whispered the boy. ‘Just me.’ ‘Is there anything you can’t leave behind?’ The boy was silent for a moment. A fly landed on his mother’s cheek and crawled across her nose. He wanted to brush it off, but he didn’t have the strength to lift his hand. ‘I can’t take a body,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘Not where we’re going.’ The boy stared at his mother for a long moment. ‘My books,’ he said at last. ‘Under the bed.’ Professor Lovell bent beneath the bed and pulled out four thick volumes. Books written in English, spines battered from use, some pages worn so thin that the print was barely still legible. The professor flipped through them, smiling despite himself, and placed them in his bag. Then he slid his arms under the boy’s thin frame and lifted him out of the house. In 1829, the plague that later became known as Asiatic Cholera made its way from Calcutta across the Bay of Bengal to the Far East – first to Siam, then Manila, then finally the shores of China on merchant ships whose dehydrated, sunken-eyed sailors dumped their waste into the Pearl River, contaminating the waters where thousands drank, laundered, swam, and bathed. It hit Canton like a tidal wave, rapidly working its way from the docks to the inland residential areas. The boy’s neighbourhood had succumbed within weeks, whole families perishing helplessly in their homes. When Professor Lovell carried the boy out of Canton’s alleys, everyone else on his street was already dead. The boy learned all this when he awoke in a clean, well-lit room in the English Factory, wrapped in blankets softer and whiter than anything he’d ever touched. These only slightly reduced his discomfort. He was terribly hot, and his tongue sat in his mouth like a dense, sandy stone. He felt as though he were floating far above his body. Every time the professor spoke, sharp pangs shot through his temples, accompanied by flashes of red. ‘You’re very lucky,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘This illness kills almost everything it touches.’ The boy stared, fascinated by this foreigner’s long face and pale grey eyes. If he let his gaze drift out of focus, the foreigner morphed into a giant bird. A crow. No, a raptor. Something vicious and strong. ‘Can you understand what I’m saying?’ The boy wet his parched lips and uttered a response. Professor Lovell shook his head. ‘English. Use your English.’ The boy’s throat burned. He coughed. ‘I know you have English.’ Professor Lovell’s voice sounded like a warning. ‘Use it.’ ‘My mother,’ breathed the boy. ‘You forgot my mother.’ Professor Lovell did not respond. Promptly he stood and brushed at his knees before he left, though the boy could scarcely see how any dust could have accumulated in the few minutes in which he’d been sitting down. The next morning the boy was able to finish a bowl of broth without retching. The morning after that he managed to stand without much vertigo, though his knees trembled so badly from disuse he had to clutch the bedframe to keep from falling over. His fever receded; his appetite improved. When he woke again that afternoon, he found the bowl replaced with a plate with two thick slices of bread and a hunk of roast beef. He devoured these with his bare hands, famished. He spent most of the day in dreamless sleep, which was regularly interrupted by the arrival of one Mrs Piper – a cheery, round woman who plumped his pillows, wiped his forehead with deliciously cool wet cloths, and spoke English with such a peculiar accent that the boy always had to ask her several times to repeat herself. ‘My word,’ she chuckled the first time he did this. ‘Must be you’ve never met a Scot.’ ‘A . . . Scot? What is a Scot?’ ‘Don’t you worry about that.’ She patted his cheek. ‘You’ll learn the lay of Great Britain soon enough.’ That evening, Mrs Piper brought him his dinner – bread and beef again – along with news that the professor wanted to see him in his office. ‘It’s just upstairs. The second door to the right. Finish your food first; he’s not going anywhere.’ The boy ate quickly and, with Mrs Piper’s help, got dressed. He didn’t know where the clothes had come from – they were Western in style, and fitted his short, skinny frame surprisingly well – but he was too tired then to inquire further. As he made his way up the stairs he trembled, whether from fatigue or trepidation, he didn’t know. The door to the professor’s study was shut. He paused a moment to catch his breath, and then he knocked. ‘Come in,’ called the professor. The door was very heavy. The boy had to lean hard against the wood to budge it open. Inside, he was overwhelmed by the musky, inky scent of books. There were stacks and stacks of them; some were arrayed neatly on shelves, while others were messily piled up in precarious pyramids throughout the room; some were strewn across the floor, while others teetered on the desks that seemed arranged at random within the dimly lit labyrinth. ‘Over here.’ The professor was nearly hidden behind the bookcases. The boy wound his way tentatively across the room, afraid the slightest wrong move might send the pyramids tumbling. ‘Don’t be shy.’ The professor sat behind a grand desk covered with books, loose papers, and envelopes. He gestured for the boy to take a seat across from him. ‘Did they let you read much here? English wasn’t a problem?’ ‘I read some.’ The boy sat gingerly, taking care not to tread on the volumes – Richard Hakluyt’s travel notes, he noticed – amassed by his feet. ‘We didn’t have many books. I ended up re-reading what we had.’ For someone who had never left Canton in his life, the boy’s English was remarkably good. He spoke with only a trace of an accent. This was thanks to an Englishwoman – one Miss Elizabeth Slate, whom the boy had called Miss Betty, and who had lived with his household for as long as he could remember. He never quite understood what she was doing there – his family was certainly not wealthy enough to employ any servants, especially not a foreigner – but someone must have been paying her wages because she had never left, not even when the plague hit. Her Cantonese was passably good, decent enough for her to make her way around town without trouble, but with the boy, she spoke exclusively in English. Her sole duty seemed to be taking care of him, and it was through conversation with her, and later with British sailors at the docks, that the boy had become fluent. He could read the language better than he spoke it. Ever since the boy turned four, he had received a large parcel twice a year filled entirely with books written in English. The return address was a residence in Hampstead just outside London – a place Miss Betty seemed unfamiliar with, and which the boy of course knew nothing about. Regardless, he and Miss Betty used to sit together under candlelight, laboriously tracing their fingers over each word as they sounded them out loud. When he grew older, he spent entire afternoons poring over the worn pages on his own. But a dozen books were hardly enough to last six months; he always read each one so many times over he’d nearly memorized them by the time the next shipment came. He realized now, without quite grasping the larger picture, that those parcels must have come from the professor. ‘I do quite enjoy it,’ he supplied feebly. Then, thinking he ought to say a bit more, ‘And no – English was not a problem.’ ‘Very good.’ Professor Lovell picked a volume off the shelf behind him and slid it across the table. ‘I suppose you haven’t seen this one before?’ The boy glanced at the title. The Wealth of Nations, by Adam Smith. He shook his head. ‘I’m sorry, no.’ ‘That’s fine.’ The professor opened the book to a page in the middle and pointed. ‘Read out loud for me. Start here.’ The boy swallowed, coughed to clear his throat, and began to read. The book was intimidatingly thick, the font very small, and the prose proved considerably more difficult than the breezy adventure novels he’d read with Miss Betty. His tongue tripped over words he didn’t know, words he could only guess at and sound out. ‘The par . . . particular ad-advantage which each col-o-colonizing country derives from the col . . . colonies which par . . . particularly belong to it, are of two different kinds; first, those common advantages which every empire de . . . rives?’ He cleared his throat. ‘Derives . . . from the provinces subject to its dom . . . dom . . .’* ‘That’s enough.’ He had no idea what he’d just read. ‘Sir, what does—’ ‘No, that’s all right,’ said the professor. ‘I hardly expect you to understand international economics. You did very well.’ He set the book aside, reached into his desk drawer, and pulled out a silver bar. ‘Remember this?’ The boy stared, wide-eyed, too apprehensive even to touch it. He’d seen bars like that before. They were rare in Canton, but everyone knew about them. Yínfúlù, silver talismans. He’d seen them embedded in the prows of ships, carved into the sides of palanquins, and installed over the doors of warehouses in the foreign quarter. He’d never figured out precisely what they were, and no one in his household could explain. His grandmother called them rich men’s magic spells, metal amulets carrying blessings from the gods. His mother thought they contained trapped demons who could be summoned to accomplish their masters’ orders. Even Miss Betty, who made loud her disdain for indigenous Chinese superstition and constantly criticized his mother’s heeding of hungry ghosts, found them unnerving. ‘They’re witchcraft,’ she’d said when he asked. ‘They’re devil’s work is what they are.’ So the boy didn’t know what to make of this yínfúlù, except that it was a bar just like this one that had several days ago saved his life. ‘Go on.’ Professor Lovell held it out towards him. ‘Have a look. It won’t bite.’ The boy hesitated, then received it in both hands. The bar was very smooth and cold to the touch, but otherwise it seemed quite ordinary. If there was a demon trapped inside, it hid itself well. ‘Can you read what it says?’ The boy looked closer and noticed there was indeed writing, tiny words engraved neatly on either side of the bar: English letters on one side, Chinese characters on the other. ‘Yes.’ ‘Say them out loud. Chinese first, then English. Speak very clearly.’ The boy recognized the Chinese characters, though the calligraphy looked a bit strange, as if drawn by someone who had seen them and copied them out radical by radical without knowing what they meant. They read: 囫圇吞棗. ‘Húlún tūn zǎo,’ he read slowly, taking care to enunciate every syllable. He switched to English. ‘To accept without thinking.’ The bar began to hum. Immediately his tongue swelled up, obstructing his airway. The boy grasped, choking, at his throat. The bar dropped to his lap, where it vibrated wildly, dancing as if possessed. A cloyingly sweet taste filled his mouth. Like dates, the boy thought faintly, black pushing in at the edges of his vision. Strong, jammy dates, so ripe they were sickening. He was drowning in them. His throat was wholly blocked, he couldn’t breathe— ‘Here.’ Professor Lovell leaned over and pulled the bar from his lap. The choking sensation vanished. The boy slumped over the desk, gulping for air. ‘Interesting,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘I’ve never known it to have such a strong effect. What does your mouth taste of?’ ‘Hóngzǎo.’ Tears streamed down the boy’s face. Hastily he switched to English. ‘Dates.’ ‘That’s good. That’s very good.’ Professor Lovell observed him for a long moment, then dropped the bar back into the drawer. ‘Excellent, in fact.’ The boy wiped tears from his eyes, sniffling. Professor Lovell sat back, waiting for the boy to recover somewhat before he continued. ‘In two days, Mrs Piper and I will depart this country for a city called London in a country called England. I’m sure you’ve heard of both.’ The boy gave an uncertain nod. London existed to him like Lilliput did: a faraway, imaginary, fantasy place where no one looked, dressed, or spoke remotely like him. ‘I propose to bring you with us. You will live at my estate, and I will provide you with room and board until you’ve grown old enough to make your own living. In return, you will take courses in a curriculum of my design. It will be language work – Latin, Greek, and of course, Mandarin. You will enjoy an easy, comfortable life, and the best education that one can afford. All I expect in return is that you apply yourself diligently to your studies.’ Professor Lovell clasped his hands together as if in prayer. The boy found his tone confusing. It was utterly flat and dispassionate. He could not tell if Professor Lovell wanted him in London or not; indeed, this seemed less like an adoption and more like a business proposal. ‘I urge you to strongly consider it,’ Professor Lovell continued. ‘Your mother and grandparents are dead, your father unknown, and you have no extended family. Stay here, and you won’t have a penny to your name. All you will ever know is poverty, disease, and starvation. You’ll find work on the docks if you’re lucky, but you’re still small yet, so you’ll spend a few years begging or stealing. Assuming you reach adulthood, the best you can hope for is backbreaking labour on the ships.’ The boy found himself staring, fascinated, at Professor Lovell’s face as he spoke. It was not as though he had never encountered an Englishman before. He had met plenty of sailors at the docks, had seen the entire range of white men’s faces, from the broad and ruddy to the diseased and liver-spotted to the long, pale, and severe. But the professor’s face presented an entirely different puzzle. His had all the components of a standard human face – eyes, lips, nose, teeth, all healthy and normal. His voice was a low, somewhat flat, but nevertheless human voice. But when he spoke, his tone and expression were entirely devoid of emotion. He was a blank slate. The boy could not guess his feelings at all. As the professor described the boy’s early, inevitable death, he could have been reciting ingredients for a stew. ‘Why?’ asked the boy. ‘Why what?’ ‘Why do you want me?’ The professor nodded to the drawer which contained the silver bar. ‘Because you can do that.’ Only then did the boy realize that this had been a test. ‘These are the terms of my guardianship.’ Professor Lovell slid a two-page document across the desk. The boy glanced down, then gave up trying to skim it; the tight, looping penmanship looked nigh illegible. ‘They’re quite simple, but take care to read the entire thing before you sign it. Will you do this tonight before you go to bed?’ The boy was too shaken to do anything but nod. ‘Very good,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘One more thing. It occurs to me you need a name.’ ‘I have a name,’ said the boy. ‘It’s—’ ‘No, that won’t do. No Englishman can pronounce that. Did Miss Slate give you a name?’ She had, in fact. When the boy turned four, she had insisted he adopt a name by which Englishmen could take him seriously, though she’d never elaborated which Englishmen those might be. They’d chosen something at random from a children’s rhyming book, and the boy liked how firm and round the syllables felt on his tongue, so he harboured no complaint. But no one else in the household had ever used it, and soon Miss Betty had dropped it as well. The boy had to think hard for a moment before he remembered. ‘Robin.’* Professor Lovell was quiet for a moment. His expression confused the boy – his brows were furrowed, as if in anger, but one side of his mouth curled up, as if delighted. ‘How about a surname?’ ‘I have a surname.’ ‘One that will do in London. Pick anything you like.’ The boy blinked at him. ‘Pick . . . a surname?’ Family names were not things to be dropped and replaced at whim, he thought. They marked lineage; they marked belonging. ‘The English reinvent their names all the time,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘The only families who keep theirs do it because they have titles to hold on to, and you certainly haven’t got any. You only need a handle to introduce yourself by. Any name will do.’ ‘Then can I take yours? Lovell?’ ‘Oh, no,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘They’ll think I’m your father.’ ‘Oh – of course.’ The boy’s eyes cast desperately around the room, searching for some word or sound to latch on to. They landed on a familiar volume on the shelf above Professor Lovell’s head – Gulliver’s Travels. A stranger in a strange land, who had to learn the local languages if he wished not to die. He thought he understood now how Gulliver felt. ‘Swift?’ he ventured. ‘Unless—’ To his surprise, Professor Lovell laughed. Laughter was strange coming out of that severe mouth; it sounded too abrupt, almost cruel, and the boy couldn’t help but flinch. ‘Very good. Robin Swift you’ll be. Mr Swift, good to meet you.’ He rose and extended his hand across the desk. The boy had seen foreign sailors greeting each other at the docks, so he knew what to do. He met that large, dry, uncomfortably cool hand with his own. They shook. Two days later, Professor Lovell, Mrs Piper, and the newly christened Robin Swift set sail for London. By then, thanks to many hours of bed rest and a steady diet of hot milk and Mrs Piper’s abundant cooking, Robin was well enough to walk on his own. He lugged a trunk heavy with books up the gangplank, struggling to keep pace with the professor. Canton’s harbour, the mouth from which China encountered the world, was a universe of languages. Loud and rapid Portuguese, French, Dutch, Swedish, Danish, English, and Chinese floated through the salty air, intermingling in an implausibly mutually intelligible pidgin which almost everyone understood, but which only a few could speak with ease. Robin knew it well. He’d gained his first instruction in foreign languages running about the quays; he’d often translated for sailors in exchange for a tossed penny and a smile. Never had he imagined he might follow the linguistic fragments of this pidgin back to their source. They walked down the waterfront to join the boarding line for the Countess of Harcourt, one of the East India Company ships that took on a small number of commercial passengers on each voyage. The sea was loud and choppy that day. Robin shivered as frigid seaside gusts cut viciously through his coat. He badly wanted to be on the ship, inside a cabin or anywhere with walls, but something held up the boarding line. Professor Lovell stepped to the side to have a look. Robin followed him. At the top of the gangplank, a crewman was berating a passenger, acerbic English vowels piercing through the morning chill. ‘Can’t you understand what I’m saying? Knee how? Lay ho? Anything?’ The target of his ire was a Chinese labourer, stooped from the weight of the rucksack he wore slung over one shoulder. If the labourer uttered a response, Robin couldn’t hear it. ‘Can’t understand a word I’m saying,’ complained the crewman. He turned to the crowd. ‘Can anyone tell this fellow he can’t come aboard?’ ‘Oh, that poor man.’ Mrs Piper nudged Professor Lovell’s arm. ‘Can you translate?’ ‘I don’t speak the Cantonese dialect,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘Robin, go on up there.’ Robin hesitated, suddenly frightened. ‘Go.’ Professor Lovell pushed him up the plank. Robin stumbled forward into the fray. Both the crewman and the labourer turned to look at him. The crewman merely looked annoyed, but the labourer seemed relieved – he seemed to recognize immediately in Robin’s face an ally, the only other Chinese person in sight. ‘What’s the matter?’ Robin asked him in Cantonese. ‘He won’t let me aboard,’ the labourer said urgently. ‘But I have a contract with this ship until London, look, it says so right here.’ He shoved a folded sheet of paper at Robin. Robin opened it. The paper was written in English, and it did indeed look like a lascar contract – a certificate of pay to last for the length of one voyage from Canton to London, to be specific. Robin had seen such contracts before; they had grown increasingly common over the past several years as the demand for indentured Chinese servants grew concurrently with overseas difficulties with the slave trade. This was not the first contract he’d translated; he’d seen work orders for Chinese labourers to board for destinations as far away as Portugal, India, and the West Indies. It all looked in order to Robin. ‘So what’s the problem?’ ‘What’s he telling you?’ asked the crewman. ‘Tell him that contract’s no good. I can’t have Chinamen on this ship. Last ship I sailed that carried a Chinaman got filthy with lice. I’m not taking risks on people who can’t wash. Couldn’t even understand the word bath if I yelled it at him, this one. Hello? Boy? Do you understand what I’m saying?’ ‘Yes, yes.’ Robin switched hastily back to English. ‘Yes, I’m just – give me a moment, I’m just trying to . . .’ But what should he say? The labourer, uncomprehending, cast Robin an imploring look. His face was creased and sun-browned, leathered in a way that made him look sixty, though he was likely only in his thirties. All lascars aged quickly; the work wrecked their bodies. Robin had seen that face a thousand times before at the docks. Some tossed him sweets; some knew him well enough to greet him by name. He associated that face with his own kind. But he’d never seen one of his elders turn to him with such total helplessness. Guilt twisted his gut. Words collected on his tongue, cruel and terrible words, but he could not turn them into a sentence. ‘Robin.’ Professor Lovell was at his side, gripping his shoulder so tightly it hurt. ‘Translate, please.’ This all hinged on him, Robin realized. The choice was his. Only he could determine the truth, because only he could communicate it to all parties. But what could he possibly say? He saw the crewman’s blistering irritation. He saw the rustling impatience of the other passengers in the queue. They were tired, they were cold, they couldn’t understand why they hadn’t boarded yet. He felt Professor Lovell’s thumb digging a groove into his collarbone, and a thought struck him – a thought so frightening that it made his knees tremble – which was that should he pose too much of a problem, should he stir up trouble, then the Countess of Harcourt might simply leave him behind onshore as well. ‘Your contract’s no good here,’ he murmured to the labourer. ‘Try the next ship.’ The labourer gaped in disbelief. ‘Did you read it? It says London, it says the East India Company, it says this ship, the Countess—’ Robin shook his head. ‘It’s no good,’ he said, then repeated this line, as if doing so might make it true. ‘It’s no good, you’ll have to try the next ship.’ ‘What’s wrong with it?’ demanded the labourer. Robin could hardly force his words out. ‘It’s just no good.’ The labourer gaped at him. A thousand emotions worked through that weathered face – indignation, frustration, and finally, resignation. Robin had been afraid the labourer might argue, might fight, but quickly it became clear that for this man, such treatment was nothing new. This had happened before. The labourer turned and made his way down the gangplank, shoving passengers aside as he did. In a few moments he was gone from sight. Robin felt very dizzy. He escaped back down the gangplank to Mrs Piper’s side. ‘I’m cold.’ ‘Oh, you’re shaking, poor thing.’ She was immediately on him like a mother hen, enveloping him within her shawl. She spoke a sharp word to Professor Lovell. He sighed, nodded; then they bustled through to the front of the line, from which they were whisked straight to their cabins while a porter collected their luggage and carried it behind them. An hour later, the Countess of Harcourt left the port. Robin was settled on his bunk with a thick blanket wrapped around his shoulders, and he would have happily stayed there all day, but Mrs Piper urged him back above deck to watch the receding shoreline. He felt a sharp ache in his chest as Canton disappeared over the horizon, and then a raw emptiness, as if a grappling hook had yanked his heart out of his body. It had not registered until now that he would not step foot on his native shore again for many years, if ever. He wasn’t sure what to make of this fact. The word loss was inadequate. Loss just meant a lack, meant something was missing, but it did not encompass the totality of this severance, this terrifying un-anchoring from all that he’d ever known. He watched the ocean for a long time, indifferent to the wind, staring until even his imagined vision of the shore faded away. He spent the first few days of the voyage sleeping. He was still recuperating; Mrs Piper insisted he take daily walks above deck for his health, but initially he could manage only a few minutes at a time before he had to lie down. He was fortunate to be spared the nausea of seasickness; a childhood along docks and rivers had habituated his senses to the roiling instability. When he felt strong enough to spend whole afternoons above deck, he loved sitting by the railings, watching the ceaseless waves changing colour with the sky, feeling the ocean spray on his face. Occasionally Professor Lovell would chat with him as they paced the deck together. Robin learned quickly that the professor was a precise and reticent man. He offered up information when he thought Robin needed it, but otherwise, he was happy to let questions lie. He told Robin they would reside in his estate in Hampstead when they reached England. He did not say whether he had family at that estate. He confirmed that he had paid Miss Betty all those years, but did not explain why. He intimated that he’d known Robin’s mother, which was how he’d known Robin’s address, but he did not elaborate on the nature of their relationship or how they’d met. The only time he acknowledged their prior acquaintance was when he asked Robin how his family came to live in that riverside shack. ‘They were a well-off merchant family when I knew them,’ he said. ‘Had an estate in Peking before they moved south. What was it, gambling? I suppose it was the brother, wasn’t it?’ Months ago Robin would have spat at anyone for speaking so cruelly about his family. But here, alone in the middle of the ocean with no relatives and nothing to his name, he could not summon the ire. He had no fire left in him. He was only scared, and so very tired. In any case, all this accorded with what Robin had been told of his family’s previous wealth, which had been squandered completely in the years after his birth. His mother had complained about it bitterly and often. Robin was fuzzy on the details, but the story involved what so many tales of decline in Qing dynasty China did: an aging patriarch, a profligate son, malicious and manipulative friends, and a helpless daughter whom, for some mysterious reason, no one would marry. Once, he’d been told, he’d slept in a lacquered crib. Once, they’d enjoyed a dozen servants and a chef who cooked rare delicacies imported from northern markets. Once, they’d lived in an estate that could have housed five families, with peacocks roaming about the yard. But all Robin had ever known was the little house on the river. ‘My mother said that my uncle lost all their money at the opium houses,’ Robin told him. ‘Debtors seized their estate, and we had to move. Then my uncle went missing when I was three, and it was just us and my aunts and grandparents. And Miss Betty.’ Professor Lovell made a noncommittal hum of sympathy. ‘That’s too bad.’ Apart from these talks, the professor spent most of the day holed up in his cabin. They saw him only semi-regularly in the mess for dinners; more often Mrs Piper had to fill a plate with hardtack and dried pork and take it to his room. ‘He’s working on his translations,’ Mrs Piper told Robin. ‘He’s always picking up scrolls and old books on these trips, you see, and he likes to get a head start on rendering them into English before he gets back to London. They keep him so busy there – he’s a very important man, a fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society, you know – and he says sea voyages are the only time he gets any peace and quiet. Isn’t that funny. He bought some nice rhyming dictionaries in Macau – lovely things, though he won’t let me touch them, the pages are so fragile.’ Robin was startled to hear that they’d been to Macau. He had not been aware of any Macau trip; naively, he’d imagined he was the only reason why Professor Lovell had come to China at all. ‘How long were you there? In Macau, I mean.’ ‘Oh, two weeks and some change. It would have been just two, but we were held up at customs. They don’t like letting foreign women onto the mainland – I had to dress up and pretend to be the professor’s uncle, can you imagine!’ Two weeks. Two weeks ago, Robin’s mother was still alive. ‘Are you all right, dear?’ Mrs Piper ruffled his hair. ‘You look pale.’ Robin nodded, and swallowed down the words he knew he could not say. He had no right to be resentful. Professor Lovell had promised him everything, and owed him nothing. Robin did not yet fully understand the rules of this world he was about to enter, but he understood the necessity of gratitude. Of deference. One did not spite one’s saviours. ‘Do you want me to take this plate down to the professor?’ he asked. ‘Thank you, dear. That’s very sweet of you. Come and meet me above deck afterwards and we’ll watch the sun go down.’ Time blurred. The sun rose and set, but without the regularity of routine – he had no chores, no water to fetch or errands to run – the days all seemed the same no matter the hour. Robin slept, reread his old books, and paced the decks. Occasionally he struck up a conversation with the other passengers, who always seemed delighted to hear a near pitch-perfect Londoner’s accent out of the mouth of this little Oriental boy. Recalling Professor Lovell’s words, he tried very hard to live exclusively in English. When thoughts popped up in Chinese, he quashed them. He quashed his memories too. His life in Canton – his mother, his grandparents, a decade of running about the docks – it all proved surprisingly easy to shed, perhaps because this passage was so jarring, the break so complete. He’d left behind everything he’d known. There was nothing to cling to, nothing to escape back to. His world now was Professor Lovell, Mrs Piper, and the promise of a country on the other side of the ocean. He buried his past life, not because it was so terrible but because abandoning it was the only way to survive. He pulled on his English accent like a new coat, adjusted everything he could about himself to make it fit, and, within weeks, wore it with comfort. In weeks, no one was asking him to speak a few words in Chinese for their entertainment. In weeks, no one seemed to remember he was Chinese at all. One morning, Mrs Piper woke him very early. He made some noises of protest, but she insisted. ‘Come, dear, you won’t want to miss this.’ Yawning, he pulled on a jacket. He was still rubbing his eyes when they emerged above deck into a cold morning shrouded in mist so thick Robin could hardly see the prow of the ship. But then the fog cleared, and a grey-black silhouette emerged over the horizon, and that was the first glimpse Robin ever had of London: the Silver City, the heart of the British Empire, and in that era, the largest and richest city in the world. Chapter Two That vast metropolis, The fountain of my country’s destiny And of the destiny of earth itself WILLIAM WORDSWORTH, The Prelude London was drab and grey; was exploding in colour; was a raucous din, bursting with life; was eerily quiet, haunted by ghosts and graveyards. As the Countess of Harcourt sailed inland down the River Thames into the dockyards at the beating heart of the capital, Robin saw immediately that London was, like Canton, a city of contradictions and multitudes, as was any city that acted as a mouth to the world. But unlike Canton, London had a mechanical heartbeat. Silver hummed through the city. It glimmered from the wheels of cabs and carriages and from horses’ hooves; shone from buildings under windows and over doorways; lay buried under the streets and up in the ticking arms of clock towers; was displayed in shopfronts whose signs proudly boasted the magical amplifications of their breads, boots, and baubles. The lifeblood of London carried a sharp, tinny timbre wholly unlike the rickety, clacking bamboo that underwrote Canton. It was artificial, metallic – the sound of a knife screeching across a sharpening steel; it was the monstrous industrial labyrinth of William Blake’s ‘cruel Works / Of many Wheels I view, wheel without wheel, with cogs tyrannic, moving by compulsion each other’.* London had accumulated the lion’s share of both the world’s silver ore and the world’s languages, and the result was a city that was bigger, heavier, faster, and brighter than nature allowed. London was voracious, was growing fat on its spoils and still, somehow, starved. London was both unimaginably rich and wretchedly poor. London – lovely, ugly, sprawling, cramped, belching, sniffing, virtuous, hypocritical, silver-gilded London – was near to a reckoning, for the day would come when it either devoured itself from inside or cast outwards for new delicacies, labour, capital, and culture on which to feed. But the scales had not yet tipped, and the revels, for now, could be sustained. When Robin, Professor Lovell, and Mrs Piper stepped ashore at the Port of London, the docks were a flurry of the colonial trade at its apex. Ships heavy with chests of tea, cotton, and tobacco, their masts and crossbeams studded with silver that made them sail more quickly and safely, sat waiting to be emptied in preparation for the next voyage to India, to the West Indies, to Africa, to the Far East. They sent British wares across the world. They brought back chests of silver. Silver bars had been used in London – and indeed, throughout the world – for a millennium, but not since the height of the Spanish Empire had any place in the world been so rich in or so reliant on silver’s power. Silver lining the canals made the water fresher and cleaner than any river like the Thames had a right to be. Silver in the gutters disguised the stink of rain, sludge, and sewage with the scent of invisible roses. Silver in the clock towers made the bells chime for miles and miles further than they should have, until the notes clashed discordantly against each other throughout the city and over the countryside. Silver was in the seats of the two-wheeled Hansom cabs Professor Lovell hailed when they had cleared customs – one for the three of them, and a second for their trunks. As they settled in, tightly nestled against each other in the tiny carriage, Professor Lovell reached over his knees and pointed out a silver bar embedded in the floor of the carriage. ‘Can you read what that says?’ he asked. Robin bent over, squinting. ‘Speed. And . . . spes?’ ‘Spēs,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘It’s Latin. It’s the root word of the English speed, and it means a nexus of things involving hope, fortune, success, and reaching one’s goal. Makes the carriages run a bit more safely and quickly.’ Robin frowned, running his finger along the bar. It seemed so small, too innocuous to produce such a profound effect. ‘But how?’ And a second, more urgent question. ‘Will I—’ ‘In time.’ Professor Lovell patted him on the shoulder. ‘But yes, Robin Swift. You’ll be one of the few scholars in the world that knows the secrets of silver-working. That’s what I’ve brought you here to do.’ Two hours in the cab brought them to a village called Hampstead several miles north of London proper, where Professor Lovell owned a four-storey house made of pale red brick and white stucco, surrounded by a generous swath of neat green shrubbery. ‘Your room is at the top,’ Professor Lovell told Robin as he unlocked the door. ‘Up the stairs and to the right.’ The house was very dark and chilly inside. Mrs Piper went about pulling open the curtains, while Robin dragged his trunk up the spiralling staircase and down the hall as instructed. His room consisted of only a little furniture – a writing desk, a bed, and a sitting chair – and was bare of any decorations or possessions except for the corner bookshelf, which was packed with so many titles that his treasured collection felt paltry in comparison. Curious, Robin approached. Had those books been prepared especially for him? That felt unlikely, though many of the titles looked like things he would enjoy – the top shelf alone had a number of Swifts and Defoes, novels by his favourite authors he hadn’t known existed. Ah, there was Gulliver’s Travels. He pulled the book off the shelf. It seemed well-worn, some pages creased and dog-eared and others stained by tea or coffee. He replaced the book, confused. Someone else must have lived in this room before him. Some other boy, perhaps – someone his age, who loved Jonathan Swift just as much, who had read this copy of Gulliver’s Travels so many times that the ink at the top right where one’s finger turned the page was starting to fade. But who could that have been? He’d assumed Professor Lovell had no children. ‘Robin!’ Mrs Piper bellowed from downstairs. ‘You’re wanted outside.’ Robin hurried back down the stairs. Professor Lovell waited by the door, looking impatiently at his pocket-watch. ‘Will your room do?’ he asked. ‘Has everything you need?’ Robin nodded effusively. ‘Oh, yes.’ ‘Good.’ Professor Lovell nodded to the waiting cab. ‘Get in, we’ve got to make you an Englishman.’ He meant this literally. For the rest of the afternoon, Professor Lovell took Robin on a series of errands in the service of assimilating him into British civil society. They saw a physician who weighed him, examined him, and reluctantly declared him fit for life on the island: ‘No tropical diseases nor fleas, thank heavens. He’s a bit small for his age, but raise him on mutton and mash and he’ll be fine. Now let’s have a smallpox jab – roll that sleeve up, please, thank you. It won’t hurt. Count to three.’ They saw a barber, who clipped Robin’s unruly, chin-length curls into a short, neat crop above his ears. They saw a hatter, a bootmaker, and finally a tailor, who measured every inch of Robin’s body and showed him several bolts of cloth among which Robin, overwhelmed, chose at random. As the afternoon wound down, they went to the courthouse for an appointment with a solicitor who drafted a set of papers which, Robin was told, would make him a legal citizen of the United Kingdom and a ward under the guardianship of Professor Richard Linton Lovell. Professor Lovell signed his name with a flourish. Then Robin went up to the solicitor’s desk. The surface was too high for him, so a clerk dragged over a bench on which he could stand. ‘I thought I had signed this already.’ Robin glanced down. The language seemed quite similar to the guardianship contract that Professor Lovell had given him in Canton. ‘Those were the terms between you and me,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘This makes you an Englishman.’ Robin scanned the looping script – guardian, orphan, minor, custody. ‘You’re claiming me as a son?’ ‘I’m claiming you as a ward. That’s different.’ Why?, he almost asked. Something important hinged on that question, though he was still too young to know what precisely it was. A moment stretched between them, pregnant with possibility. The solicitor scratched his nose. Professor Lovell cleared his throat. But the moment passed without comment. Professor Lovell was not forthcoming, and Robin already knew better than to press. He signed. The sun had long set by the time they returned to Hampstead. Robin asked if he might head up to bed, but Professor Lovell urged him to the dining room. ‘You can’t disappoint Mrs Piper; she’s been in the kitchen all afternoon. At least push your food around on your plate for a bit.’ Mrs Piper and her kitchen had enjoyed a glorious reunion. The dining room table, which seemed ridiculously large for just the two of them, was piled with pitchers of milk, white rolls of bread, roast carrots and potatoes, gravy, something still simmering in a silver-gilded tureen, and what looked like an entire glazed chicken. Robin hadn’t eaten since that morning; he should have been famished, but he was so exhausted that the sight of all that food made his stomach twist. Instead, he turned his eyes to a painting that hung behind the table. It was impossible to ignore; it dominated the entire room. It depicted a beautiful city at dusk, but it was not London, he didn’t think. It seemed more dignified. More ancient. ‘Ah. Now that,’ Professor Lovell followed his gaze, ‘is Oxford.’ Oxford. He’d heard that word before, but he wasn’t sure where. He tried to parse the name, the way he did with all unfamiliar English words. ‘A . . . a cow-trading centre? Is it a market?’ ‘A university,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘A place where all the great minds of the nation can congregate in research, study, and instruction. It’s a wonderful place, Robin.’ He pointed to a grand domed building in the middle of the painting. ‘This is the Radcliffe Library. And this,’ he gestured to a tower beside it, the tallest building in the landscape, ‘is the Royal Institute of Translation. This is where I teach, and where I spend the majority of the year when I’m not in London.’ ‘It’s lovely,’ said Robin. ‘Oh, yes.’ Professor Lovell spoke with uncharacteristic warmth. ‘It’s the loveliest place on earth.’ He spread his hands through the air, as if envisioning Oxford before him. ‘Imagine a town of scholars, all researching the most marvellous, fascinating things. Science. Mathematics. Languages. Literature. Imagine building after building filled with more books than you’ve seen in your entire life. Imagine quiet, solitude, and a serene place to think.’ He sighed. ‘London is a blathering mess. It’s impossible to get anything done here; the city’s too loud, and it demands too much of you. You can escape out to places like Hampstead, but the screaming core draws you back in whether you like it or not. But Oxford gives you all the tools you need for your work – food, clothes, books, tea – and then it leaves you alone. It is the centre of all knowledge and innovation in the civilized world. And, should you progress sufficiently well in your studies here, you might one day be lucky enough to call it home.’ The only appropriate response here seemed to be an awed silence. Professor Lovell gazed wistfully at the painting. Robin tried to match his enthusiasm, but could not help glancing sideways at the professor. The softness in his eyes, the longing, startled him. In the little time he’d known him, Robin had never seen Professor Lovell express such fondness for anything. Robin’s lessons began the next day. As soon as breakfast concluded, Professor Lovell instructed Robin to wash and return to the drawing room in ten minutes. There waited a portly, smiling gentleman named Mr Felton – a first class at Oxford, an Oriel man, mind you – and yes, he’d make sure Robin was up to Oxford’s Latinate speed. The boy was starting a bit late compared to his peers, but if he studied hard, that could be easily remedied. Thus began a morning of memorizing basic vocabulary – agricola, terra, aqua – which was daunting, but then seemed easy compared to the head-spinning explanations of declensions and conjugations which followed. Robin had never been taught the fundamentals of grammar – he knew what worked in English because it sounded right – and so in learning Latin, he learned the basic parts of language itself. Noun, verb, subject, predicate, copula; then the nominative, genitive, accusative cases . . . He absorbed a bewildering amount of material over the next three hours, and had forgotten half of it by the time the lesson ended, but he came away with a deep appreciation of language and all the words for what you could do with it. ‘That’s all right, lad.’ Mr Felton, thankfully, was a patient fellow, and seemed sympathetic to the mental brutalization he’d subjected Robin to. ‘You’ll have much more fun after we’ve finished laying the groundwork. Just wait until we get to Cicero.’ He peered down at Robin’s notes. ‘But you’ve got to be more careful with your spelling.’ Robin couldn’t see where he’d gone wrong. ‘How do you mean?’ ‘You’ve forgotten nearly all the macron marks.’ ‘Oh.’ Robin suppressed a noise of impatience; he was very hungry, and just wanted to be done so he could go to lunch. ‘Those.’ Mr Felton rapped the table with his knuckles. ‘Even the length of a single vowel matters, Robin Swift. Consider the Bible. The original Hebrew text never specifies what sort of forbidden fruit the serpent persuades Eve to eat. But in Latin, malum means bad and mālum,’ he wrote the words out for Robin, emphasizing the macron with force, ‘means apple. It was a short leap from there to blaming the apple for the original sin. But for all we know, the real culprit could be a persimmon.’ Mr Felton departed at lunchtime, after assigning a list of nearly a hundred vocabulary words to memorize before the following morning. Robin ate alone in the drawing room, mechanically shoving ham and potatoes into his mouth as he blinked uncomprehendingly at his grammar. ‘More potatoes, dear?’ Mrs Piper asked. ‘No, thank you.’ The heavy food, combined with the tiny font of his readings, was making him sleepy. His head throbbed; what he really would have liked then was a long nap. But there was no reprieve. At two on the dot, a thin, grey-whiskered gentleman who introduced himself as Mr Chester arrived at the house, and for the next three hours, they commenced Robin’s education in Ancient Greek. Greek was an exercise in making the familiar strange. Its alphabet mapped onto the Roman alphabet, but only partly so, and often letters did not sound how they looked – a rho (P) was not a P, and an eta (H) was not an H. Like Latin, it made use of conjugations and declensions, but there were a good deal more moods, tenses, and voices to keep track of. Its inventory of sounds seemed further from English than Latin’s did, and Robin kept struggling not to make Greek tones sound like Chinese tones. Mr Chester was harsher than Mr Felton, and became snippy and irritable when Robin kept flubbing his verb endings. By the end of the afternoon, Robin felt so lost that it was all he could do to simply repeat the sounds Mr Chester spat at him. Mr Chester left at five, after also assigning a mountain of readings that hurt Robin to look at. He carried the texts to his room, then stumbled, head spinning, to the dining room for supper. ‘How did your classes go?’ Professor Lovell inquired. Robin hesitated. ‘Just fine.’ Professor Lovell’s mouth quirked up in a smile. ‘It’s a bit much, isn’t it?’ Robin sighed. ‘Just a tad, sir.’ ‘But that’s the beauty of learning a new language. It should feel like an enormous undertaking. It ought to intimidate you. It makes you appreciate the complexity of the ones you know already.’ ‘But I don’t see why they have to be quite so complicated,’ Robin said with sudden vehemence. He couldn’t help it; his frustration had been mounting since noon. ‘I mean, why so many rules? Why so many endings? Chinese doesn’t have any of those; we haven’t got tenses or declensions or conjugations. Chinese is much simpler—’ ‘You’re wrong there,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘Every language is complex in its own way. Latin just happens to work its complexity into the shape of the word. Its morphological richness is an asset, not an obstacle. Consider the sentence He will learn. Tā huì xué. Three words in both English and Chinese. In Latin, it takes only one. Disce. Much more elegant, you see?’ Robin wasn’t sure he did. This routine – Latin in the morning, Greek in the afternoon – became Robin’s life for the foreseeable future. He was grateful for this, despite the toil. At last, he had some structure to his days. He felt less unrooted and bewildered now – he had a purpose, he had a place, and even though he still couldn’t quite fathom why this life had fallen to him, of all the dock boys in Canton, he took to his duties with determined, uncomplaining diligence. Twice a week he had conversational practice with Professor Lovell in Mandarin.* At first, he could not understand the point. These dialogues felt artificial, stilted, and most of all, unnecessary. He was fluent already; he didn’t stumble over vocabulary recall or pronunciations the way he did when he and Mr Felton conversed in Latin. Why should he answer such basic questions as how he found his dinner, or what he thought about the weather? But Professor Lovell was adamant. ‘Languages are easier to forget than you imagine,’ he said. ‘Once you stop living in the world of Chinese, you stop thinking in Chinese.’ ‘But I thought you wanted me to start thinking in English,’ Robin said, confused. ‘I want you to live in English,’ said Professor Lovell. ‘This is true. But I still need you to practise your Chinese. Words and phrases you think are carved into your bones can disappear in no time.’ He spoke as if this had happened before. ‘You’ve grown up with solid foundations in Mandarin, Cantonese, and English. That’s very fortunate – there are adults who spend their lifetimes trying to achieve what you have. And even if they do, they achieve only a passable fluency – enough to get by, if they think hard and recall vocabulary before speaking – but nothing close to a native fluency where words come unbidden, without lag or labour. You, on the other hand, have already mastered the hardest parts of two language systems – the accents and rhythm, those unconscious quirks that adults take forever to learn, and even then, not quite. But you must maintain them. You can’t squander your natural gifts.’ ‘But I don’t understand,’ said Robin. ‘If my talents lie in Chinese, then what do I need Latin and Greek for?’ Professor Lovell chuckled. ‘To understand English.’ ‘But I know English.’ ‘Not as well as you think you do. Plenty of people speak it, but few of them really know it, its roots and skeletons. But you need to know the history, shape, and depths of a language, particularly if you plan to manipulate it as you will one day learn to do. And you’ll need to attain that mastery of Chinese as well. That begins with practising what you have.’ Professor Lovell was right. It was, Robin discovered, startlingly easy to lose a language that had once felt as familiar as his own skin. In London, without another Chinese person in sight, at least not in the circles of London where he lived, his mother tongue sounded like babble. Uttered in that drawing room, the most quintessentially English of spaces, it didn’t feel like it belonged. It felt made-up. And it scared him, sometimes, how often his memory would lapse, how the syllables he’d grown up around could suddenly sound so unfamiliar. He put twice the effort into Chinese that he did into Greek and Latin. For hours a day he practised writing out his characters, labouring over every stroke until he achieved a perfect replica of the characters in print. He reached into his memory to recall how Chinese conversations felt, how Mandarin sounded when it rolled naturally off his tongue, when he didn’t have to pause to remember the tones of the next word he uttered. But he was forgetting. That terrified him. Sometimes, during practice conversations, he found himself blanking on a word he used to toss around constantly. And sometimes he sounded, to his own ears, like a European sailor imitating Chinese without knowing what he said. He could fix it, though. He would. Through practice, through memorization, through daily compositions – it wasn’t the same as living and breathing Mandarin, but it was close enough. He was of an age when the language had made a permanent impression on his mind. But he had to try, really try, to make sure that he did not stop dreaming in his native tongue. At least thrice a week Professor Lovell received a variety of guests in his sitting room. Robin supposed they must have also been scholars, for often they came bearing stacks of books or bound manuscripts, which they would pore over and debate about until the late hours of the night. Several of these men, it turned out, could speak Chinese, and Robin sometimes hid out over the banister, eavesdropping on the very strange sound of Englishmen discussing the finer points of Classical Chinese grammar over afternoon tea. ‘It’s just a final particle,’ one of them would insist, while the others cried, ‘Well, they can’t all be final particles.’ Professor Lovell seemed to prefer that Robin keep out of sight when company came. He never explicitly forbade Robin’s presence, but he would make a note to say that Mr Woodbridge and Mr Ratcliffe were visiting at eight, which Robin interpreted to mean that he ought to make himself scarce. Robin had no issue with this arrangement. Admittedly, he found their conversations fascinating – they spoke often of far-flung things like expeditions to the West Indies, negotiations over cotton prints in India, and violent unrest throughout the Near East. But as a group, they were frightening; a procession of solemn, erudite men, all dressed in black like a murder of crows, each more intimidating than the last. The only time he barged in on one of these gatherings was by accident. He’d been out in the garden, taking his daily physician-recommended turn, when he overheard the professor and his guests loudly discussing Canton. ‘Napier’s an idiot,’ Professor Lovell was saying. ‘He’s playing his hand too early – there’s no subtlety. Parliament’s not ready, and he’s irritating the compradors besides.’ ‘You think the Tories will want to move in at any point?’ asked a man with a very deep voice. ‘Perhaps. But they’ll have to get a better stronghold in Enjoying the preview?Subscribe to continue readingStart your free  daysPage 1 of 1HomeEbooksFantasyFooter menuBack to topAboutAbout ScribdPressOur blogJoin our team!Contact usInvite friendsGiftsScribd for enterpriseSupportHelp / FAQAccessibilityPurchase helpAdChoicesPublishersLegalTermsPrivacyCopyrightDo not sell or share my personal informationSocialInstagram InstagramTwitter TwitterFacebook FacebookPinterest PinterestGet our free appsAboutAbout ScribdPressOur blogJoin our team!Contact usInvite friendsGiftsScribd for enterpriseLegalTermsPrivacyCopyrightDo not sell or share my personal informationSupportHelp / FAQAccessibilityPurchase helpAdChoicesPublishersSocialInstagram InstagramTwitter TwitterFacebook FacebookPinterest PinterestGet our free appsAudiobooksBooksDocumentsMagazinesPodcastsSheet musicLanguage:English close menuEnglish(selected)EspañolPortuguêsDeutschFrançaisРусскийItalianoRomânăBahasa IndonesiaLearn moreCopyright © 2023 Scribd Inc.Language:English close menuEnglish(selected)EspañolPortuguêsDeutschFrançaisРусскийItalianoRomânăBahasa IndonesiaLearn moreCopyright © 2023 Scribd Inc.