Comparative law | Australian Law Postgraduate Network
30 captures
21 Feb 2011 - 25 Apr 2013
Jan
APR
May
14
2012
2013
2014
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: National Library of Australia Crawls
  Crawls performed by Internet Archive on behalf of the National Library of Australia.  This data is currently not publicly accessible.
Collection: NLA 2013 Domain crawl
  This crawl of the .au domain was performed on behalf of the National Library of Australia in Spring of 2013.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20130414202207/http://alpn.edu.au/node/66
 
 
Contents
Academic Directory
Postgraduate awards on offer
Prizes and Scholarships
Participating Universities
Research Centres
Research Bulletin
Guide for postgraduate students
Research skills
Australian law
The law outside Australia
United Kingdom law
United States legal system
Canadian Legal System
Comparative law
New Zealand legal system
Foreign law
Public international law
Private international law
Mastering the literature
Career development
Deliver your verdict
Resources
Conferences and Forums
HDR Supervisor Training
2007 ALPN Paper Series
Links
Survey
Contact ALPN
Home › Guide for postgraduate students › Research skills › The law outside Australia
Comparative law
Learning objectives
At the end of this module, you will be able to:
explain the concept of comparative law
explain the role of comparative law in Australian law
identify different types of legal systems which exist world-wide
find online materials on comparative law.
What is comparative law?
 Comparative law is the study of the laws and legal systems of different jurisdictions in terms of their similiarities and differences. The field is undergoing rapid growth for a number of reasons: 
Increasing dissatisfaction with traditional jurisprudance. Comparative law offers fresh insights into the evolution and operation of legal systems. It is also increasingly seen as an aid to legislative reform. 
Growing emphasis on the protection of human rights. It has been argued that, without an understanding of comparative law, it will be difficult to reconcile different legal systems while protecting and extending human rights world-wide. 
Globalisation. The study of comparative law is widely regarded as critical in ensuring fair terms of cultural exchange, trade and investment in an age of rising globalisation. 
International interest in legal harmonisation. The international harmonisation of laws is regarded as increasingly desirable in order to facilitate cross-border trade, international investment and the control of transnational crime. 
The Australian courts and comparative law
No recent decision of any court outside this country is binding on an Australian court. This does not mean, however, that overseas case law has no part in the Australian legal system. The decisions of foreign courts are regularly cited in Australian courts. 
Australian judges cite overseas decisions for a number of reasons. These include: 
as aid to the formulation of rulings in unusual or difficult cases
as a means of bringing Australian law in line with developing common law principles world-wide
in order to harmonise Australian law with private international law
as purely rhetorical support for favoured rulings.
English precedents were particularly influential in Australia for most of the twentieth century. However, courts now seek persuasive precedents from a wider range of common-law jurisdictions. 
Not all common law jurisdictions are equally highly regarded. No hard and fast rules exist. In practice, however, an overseas decision is more likely to be regarded as a persuasive precedent if it is made by a superior court in a small number of common law jurisdictions in the developed world. These include the United Kingdom, Eire, Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong and the United States. 
Decisions made by courts in Scotland or South Africa may also provide persuasive precedents, although technically both Scotland and South Africa are mixed jurisdictions.
Casting a wide net
Citations from other common law jurisdictions can be extensive. A recent example is Hancock v Nominal Defendant [2002] 1 Qd R 578. In this case, the Queensland Court of Appeal upheld the award of damages against a negligent driver. In their decision, the judges referred to decisions from a number of foreign jurisdictions: England, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, Scotland, the United States and Eire. One judge, Judge Byrne, cited no less than 60 US cases. Overall, the number of overseas precedents cited was far greater than the number of Australian ones. 
Comparative law and Legislation
The impact of comparative law is not limited to case law. Australian parliaments are often influenced by the example of overseas legislation. The European Commission Directive on Product Liability was used as the model for the inclusion of Part VA in the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth). A recent example of the influence of overseas statutes law is the proposed legislation regarding price fixing. In January 2008, the Commonwealth announced that it intended to legislate for jail terms of up to five years for business people who collude with competitors to control prices. This decision brings Australian law into line with that in North American and the European Union. This harmonisation is expected to make international co-operation against cartels easier.
Italian law and the Queensland Criminal Code
As Chief Justice of Queensland in the 1890s, Sir Samuel Griffith (left) was responsible for drafting the model criminal code for the State. This enormous task took him five years. During this time, Griffith made considerable use of the Italian Penal Code of 1888. In a few instances, Griffith simply translated the relevant Italian article into English. 
Griffith's Code passsed into law in 1899 and was used by the British Colonial Office as a model for the criminal codes elsewhere in the British Empire. His willingness to make use of the Italian Penal Code is a striking early example of the reception of civil law into Australian law.
Legal Families
Authorities disagree regarding the exact boundaries of the overarching legal families which exist across the world. However, three broad distinctions are useful: 
Common law Jurisdictions. The common law jurisdictions include the legal systems of England and Wales, Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland (Eire), United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, Hong Kong, and a number of other Commonwealth countries.
Mixed jurisdictions. In the traditional sense, these are jurisdictions which are based on a mixture of common law and civil law. Many mixed jurisdictions consist of former France, Dutch or Spainish colonies which came under the rule of Great Britain or the United States during the eighteenth or nineteenth centuries. Mixed jurisdictions include Louisiana, Quebec, St Lucia, Puerto Rico, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, the Philippines, Malta and Sri Lanka. More recently, the term has also been used to describe cases in which common law or civil law jurisdictions co-exist with customary legal systems or religious systems (such as Sharia law). 
Civil law or civilian jurisdictions. Civil law jurisdictions are those code-based legal systems ultimately derived from the Roman law of Justinian's Corpus Juris Civilis. The enduring legacy of Roman law in Western Europe is not surprising. What is more remarkable is the extent to which colonialism and Westernisation have led to the adoption of civil law codes by countries which never formed part of the Roman Empire. Countries across Latin America have adopted civil law codes derived from the French Code Napoleon (1804). Civil law influence is also apparent on the legal codes of Japan, Thailand and Brazil through the influence of the late ninteenth century German civil code. 
Not all jurisdictions fall into these broad categories. Many countries have legal systems based on the Soviet model or systems which reflect the influence of Islamic law. GlobaLex has a page on Religious Legal Systems which summarises the contributions made by religious legal systems to law of different jurisdictions. The University of Ottawa has additional information on the World Legal Systems site. Note that the maps provided by the University of Ottawa class the legal systems of the post-Communist world as civil law jurisdictions, on the grounds that the Communist-era law of these nations was code-based. Although many would argue that Soviet law represented a separate legal family, this issue is quickly becoming a dead letter. Many Eastern European countries have replaced their Soviet-inspired laws with legal systems based on the civil law traditions of Western Europe.
Israeli Law
Before 1948, Palestine was part of the British Empire and its legal system was largely based on the common law. The new state of  Israel initially took over this body of law (including the remnants of Ottoman law). Over the next few decades the Israeli legal system moved steadily away from the English model.
Even now, sixty years later, the influence of the English common law is still strong: it remains evident in areas such as tort, criminal law, the law of evidence and court procedures. Israeli courts apply stare decisis (precedent) and judges continue to fill in gaps in the existing law by arguments from analogy.
 Despite these continuities, there are very significant departures from the English common law. There are no juries in Israeli courts and over 99% of criminal cases end in conviction, something unthinkable in most common law jurisdictions. Further, the influence of the English common law has been increasingly diluted by the reception of the US common law, particularly in the area of commercial law. Israelis can now point to a distinctive Israeli common law tradition.
Given the strength of the common law, why is Israel regarded as a mixed jurisdiction? The reason is that between 1962–1981, large areas of Israeli private law were codified through legislation based primarily on French, Italian and German models. The result was the replacement of common law with civil law. The influence of European positive law is also felt in the courts. Israeli lawyers are more likely than, say, their Australian or English counterparts, to majke use of abstract reasoning in their pleadings.
Stop for a moment, and think about the historical factors which might have been at work in Israel after 1948. Is there anything particularly surprising about the direction of legal changes after Independence? Why do you think most other newly-independent common-law jurisdictions have remained closer to the English model?
General starting points
Looking for evidence of comparative law in a particular area? Start your research with the secondary sources. Journal articles, book chapters and entries in reference works will provide a useful guide to overseas concepts and terminology, which can be very different to those in use in Australia. 
If your question is fairly simple, try the Martindale-Hubbell International Law Digest. This publication provides short summaries of the laws of many states under standard topics (eg wills), including the names of important pieces of legislation. Although the information in the International Law Digest is brief, getting the name of important statutes or cases will allow you to find full-text materials elsewhere.
The Martindale-Hubbell International Law Digest is available in paper or online through LexisNexis.
If Martindale-Hubbell  is not available in your institutional library, look for one of the other encyclopedias in the area.
Comparative law encyclopedias
Apart from Martindale-Hubbell, reference works in the area of comparative law include:
Elgar Encyclopedia of Comparative Law. This resource is reasonably current (2006) and comprises articles by some of the leading scholars in the field of comparative law.
International Encyclopedia of Comparative Law. To date, thirty-eight instalments, comprising over 150 chapters, have been published. Unfortunately, much of the material is out of date. The material on Australia, for example, was published as long ago as 1973. 
Legal Systems of the World: A Political, Social, and Cultural Encyclopedia. This is a four-volume, basic encyclopedia offering an reasonably up-to-date (2002) snapshot of the world's legal systems.
Modern Legal Systems Cyclopedia. This is ten volume work with loose-leaf updates published by Hein. 
Oxford Handbook of Comparative Law. The Handbook contains forty-eight chapters on different areas of comparative law. Each chapter includes a short bibliography including the definitive works in the field. 
Useful Web sites on comparative law
American Society of Comparative Law. This site hosts a number of resources, including a searchable index to the American Journal of Comparative Law.
British Institute of International and Comparative Law. The institute's site includes a number of full text papers and reports issued by different groups within the Institute's umberella.
Comparative Law Guide. The Comparative Law Guide provides a useful overview of comparative law resources in print and on the Web. 
Comparative Law Methodology and Sources. This is a Adobe Acrobat (PDF) document which provides an exhaustive "how-to" guide. 
Foreign and Comparative Law by Subject. This page by the Pritzker Legal Research Centre lists links to comparative law materials by subject. 
Institute for Transnational Law. This site provides English-language translations of French, German, Italian, Austrian and Israeli legal materials in the fields of constitutional, administrative, contract and tort law.
Global Legal Information Network (GLIN). GLIN is a searchable database of laws, regulations, judicial decisions, and other legal information contributed by government agencies and international organisations. Each document includes an English summary.
Oxford University Comparative Law Forum. The Forum seeks to promotes the study legal issues from a comparative perspective. The site contains a number of useful articles in full text.
  
Rechtsprechung und Aufsätze zum Völker- und Europarecht  (RAVE). RAVE is a database which covers recent publications (articles and decisions) in public international law and European law 
Swiss Institute of Comparative Law. The Institute's site includes a useful database of online resources on the law of different countries.
The Common law
How confident are you of the unique value of the common law tradition? Iain Stewart, a Senior Lecturer at Macquarie University, has some valuable things to say about the common law. Read this excerpt from a recent article:
From a practical point of view, the reliance on analogy makes the law highly flexible, to a degree that a civilian can envy. On the other hand, it leads to several types of obscurity:
Lack of rational clarity: analogy has a limited capacity to state a general rule or principle, which would belong to deduction.
Literal obscurity: a judgement of a superior court is incomprehensible to anybody without a legal qualification; and, since the law is not what was decided yesterday but what is likely to be decided tomorrow, one needs to be able to predict the analogies that will be entertained—and old cases never die.
Lack of moral or political transparency: it is hard to perceive, under the analogies drawn, by what moral or political values the judges are guided.
Unpredictability: this is a defect in terms of organisational efficiency; it is also a defect in being anti-democratic so far as it amounts to dog-law, as Bentham complained so long ago
These obscurities, however, are a goldmine for the legal profession. It is rarely possible to discover one's legal rights or duties reliably without consulting, hence feeing, a lawyer. This compounds the anti-democratic bias: partly by privileging those who can afford legal advice and representation; and partly because the judge-made law, including constitutional and statutory interpretation, is then moulded upon the interests of those who can afford to sue.
How valid are these criticisms? Can it be argued that positive law based systems (such as civil law) are inherently superior to the common law?
The whole article is available online. 
Further information
For further information on finding information on the law of countries, see the modules on International Public Law and Foreign Law. There are also separate modules on the laws of New Zealand, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. 
Summary
This module dealt with the following:
the concept of comparative law
the role of comparative law in Australian law
the concept of legal families
sources of material on comparative law.
 
©2012 Australian Law Postgraduate Network
 
 