The Prime Meridian at Greenwich : Royal Observatory & history of astronomy : Astronomy fact files : Astronomy & time : Explore online : RMG
132 captures
03 Mar 2012 - 27 Jun 2023
Oct
NOV
Jan
07
2014
2015
2016
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Archive Team
 Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.
The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.
This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. 
Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.
The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. 
Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler
  ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites).
To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently.
There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com.
ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20151107023957/http://www.rmg.co.uk/explore/astronomy-and-time/astronomy-facts/history/the-prime-meridian-at-greenwich
Jump to navigation
 
Keep in touch 
Section Dept
National Maritime Museum
Royal Observatory
The Queen's House
Cutty Sark
Main menu
Home
Visit
What's on
Buy tickets
Collections
Schools
Researchers
Membership
Shop
The Prime Meridian at Greenwich
The Royal Observatory in Greenwich is the home of Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and the Prime Meridian of the world.
What is a meridian?
Have your photo taken standing on the Meridian Line. A meridian is a north-south line selected as the zero reference line for astronomical observations. By comparing thousands of observations taken from the same meridian it is possible to build up an accurate map of the sky.
Hemispheres
The line in Greenwich represents the Prime Meridian of the World - Longitude 0º. Every place on Earth is measured in terms of its distance east or west from this line. The line itself divides the eastern and western hemispheres of the Earth - just as the Equator divides the northern and southern hemispheres.
Where is the meridian?
In 1884 the Prime Meridian was defined by the position of the large 'Transit Circle' telescope in the Observatory’s Meridian Observatory. The transit circle was built by Sir George Biddell Airy, the 7th Astronomer Royal, in 1850. The cross-hairs in the eyepiece of the Transit Circle precisely defined Longitude 0° for the world. As the earth’s crust is moving very slightly all the time the exact position of the Prime Meridian is now moving very slightly too, but the original reference for the prime meridian of the world remains the Airy Transit Circle in the Royal Observatory, even if the exact location of the line may move to either side of Airy’s meridian.
What is the latitude of the Observatory?
Meridian line laser and Flamsteed house, Old Royal observatory from the grounds of the National Maritime Museum. 
Airy's Transit Circle lies at Longitude 0°, by definition, and Latitude 51° 28' 38'' N.
The creation of Standard Time
Since the late 19th century, the Prime Meridian at Greenwich has served as the reference line for Greenwich Mean Time. Before this, almost every town in the world kept its own local time. There were no national or international conventions which set how time should be measured, or when the day would begin and end, or what length an hour might be. However, with the vast expansion of the railway and communications networks during the 1850s and 1860s, the worldwide need for an international time standard became imperative.
The deciding conference
The Greenwich Meridian was chosen as the Prime Meridian of the World in 1884. Forty-one delegates from 25 nations met in Washington DC for the International Meridian Conference. By the end of the conference, Greenwich had won the prize of Longitude 0º by a vote of 22 to 1 against (San Domingo), with 2 abstentions (France and Brazil).
Why Greenwich?
There were two main reasons for the choice. The first was the fact that the USA had already chosen Greenwich as the basis for its own national time zone system. The second was that in the late 19th century, 72% of the world's commerce depended on sea-charts which used Greenwich as the Prime Meridian.
The decision, essentially, was based on the argument that by naming Greenwich as Longitude 0º, it would be advantageous to the largest number of people. Therefore the Prime Meridian at Greenwich became the centre of world time, and was the official starting point for the new Millennium.
Also Of InterestMeridian Line
Explore menu
Explore onlineArt
Astronomy & timeAstronomy fact filesAstronomical instruments
Astronomy FAQs
Comets, meteors and asteroids
Royal Observatory & history of astronomy
Stars
The solar system
The universe
General astronomy
Space exploration archive
Time fact files
Solar Stormwatch
Sea & ships
Podcasts
Games & activities
About Us menu
About usSupport us
The Organization
Jobs, volunteering & work experience
Press office & news
Our history in Greenwich
International activities
Partnerships & initiatives
Museum policies
Contact & Enquiries menu
Contact & enquiriesJobs & volunteering
Newsletter
Work with us
Family history enquiries
Library & collections enquiries
Buying a ship plan
Buying prints & photos
Object donations & valuations
Astronomy enquiries
Make a donation
Business & Hire menu
Business & hireVenue hire
Touring exhibitions & shows
Picture Library
Print sales
Brand licensing
Location filming
Publishing
Languages menu
LanguagesDeutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Polski
العربية Arabic
简体中文 Mandarin
日本語 Nihongo
Русский язык Russian
Participate menu
ParticipateAstronomy Photographer of the Year
Citizen Science
Events
Exhibitions
Explore online
Newsletter
Planetarium shows
© 2015 National Maritime Museum. All rights reserved. Website development by Annertech
Copyright
Terms of use
Privacy
Accessibility
 