Bilingual experience and resting-state brain connectivity: Impacts of L2 age of acquisition and social diversity of language use on control networks
  
    
    
    
    
      
  Bilingual experience and resting-state brain connectivity: Impacts of L2 age of acquisition and social diversity of language use on control networks
    
  
Neuropsychologia. 2018 Aug;117:123-134.
        doi: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2018.04.037.
      
        Epub 2018 May 1.
      
            Authors
          
Jason W Gullifer 
                1
              , Xiaoqian J Chai 
                2
              , Veronica Whitford 
                3
              , Irina Pivneva 
                4
              , Shari Baum 
                5
              , Denise Klein 
                6
              , Debra Titone 
                7
              
            Affiliations
          
1 Department of Psychology, McGill University, 2001 McGill College Ave, Montréal, QC, Canada H3A 1G1; Cognitive Neuroscience Unit, Montreal Neurological Institute, Canada; Centre for Research on Brain, Language and Music, McGill University, Canada. Electronic address: jason.gullifer@mail.mcgill.ca.
2 Cognitive Neurology/Neuropsychology Division, Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, United States; Centre for Research on Brain, Language and Music, McGill University, Canada.
3 Department of Psychology, University of Texas at El Paso, United States; Centre for Research on Brain, Language and Music, McGill University, Canada.
4 Department of Psychology, McGill University, 2001 McGill College Ave, Montréal, QC, Canada H3A 1G1; Centre for Research on Brain, Language and Music, McGill University, Canada.
5 School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, McGill University, Canada; Centre for Research on Brain, Language and Music, McGill University, Canada.
6 Cognitive Neuroscience Unit, Montreal Neurological Institute, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Canada; Centre for Research on Brain, Language and Music, McGill University, Canada.
7 Department of Psychology, McGill University, 2001 McGill College Ave, Montréal, QC, Canada H3A 1G1; Centre for Research on Brain, Language and Music, McGill University, Canada. Electronic address: debra.titone@mcgill.ca.
    
      PMID:
    
  
      29727624
    
    
      PMCID:
    
  
      PMC6086747
    
    
      DOI:
    
  
      10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2018.04.037
    
        Abstract
        
      
      
      We investigated the independent contributions of second language (L2) age of acquisition (AoA) and social diversity of language use on intrinsic brain organization using seed-based resting-state functional connectivity among highly proficient French-English bilinguals. There were two key findings. First, earlier L2 AoA related to greater interhemispheric functional connectivity between homologous frontal brain regions, and to decreased reliance on proactive executive control in an AX-Continuous Performance Task completed outside the scanner. Second, greater diversity in social language use in daily life related to greater connectivity between the anterior cingulate cortex and the putamen bilaterally, and to increased reliance on proactive control in the same task. These findings suggest that early vs. late L2 AoA links to a specialized neural framework for processing two languages that may engage a specific type of executive control (e.g., reactive control). In contrast, higher vs. lower degrees of diversity in social language use link to a broadly distributed set of brain networks implicated in proactive control and context monitoring.
    
          Keywords:
        
      
      Bilingualism; Brain imaging; Executive control; L2 age of acquisition; Resting-state functional connectivity; Social diversity of language use.
    
    Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
  
        Publication types
      
                
                  
  Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
                
              
        MeSH terms
      
                  
                    
  Adolescent
                  
                
                  
                    
  Adult
                  
                
                  
                    
  Age Factors
                  
                
                  
                    
  Brain / diagnostic imaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Brain / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Brain Mapping
                  
                
                  
                    
  Executive Function / physiology
                  
                
                  
                    
  Female
                  
                
                  
                    
  Humans
                  
                
                  
                    
  Image Processing, Computer-Assisted
                  
                
                  
                    
  Language Development*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Magnetic Resonance Imaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Male
                  
                
                  
                    
  Multilingualism*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Neural Pathways / diagnostic imaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Neural Pathways / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Rest*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Sociological Factors*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Young Adult
                  
                
        Grant support
      
          F32 HD082983/HD/NICHD NIH HHS/United States
        