 BBC - Welsh language - Early Welsh poetry
          British Broadcasting CorporationHome   Accessibility links Skip to content Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Skip to bbc.co.uk search Accessibility Help  
            This page has been archived and is no longer updated.
            
Find out more about page archiving.
Wales History
History home
Themes
Local history
Archive
Blog
History for kids
Wales History
Themes
Celtic languages

Welsh language: Early Welsh poetry 
Latest
History of Wales
Historic figures
Periods
Society and culture
Black history
Castles
Celts
Family history
Industry
Investiture
King Arthur
Migration
Miners' strike
Politics
Myths and legends
Welsh flag
Welsh language
Welsh royalty
Women
History of Religion
Full site A - Z index
Early Welsh poetry 
Last updated: 11 August 2008
The first Welsh poets included Aneirin and  Taliesin, whose work descended from the tradition of the druids.
Sometime between 400 and 700 AD, Brittonic developed into four different languages: Early Welsh, Breton, Cornish and Cumbric. The latter was spoken in northern England and southern Scotland and now extinct.
The little evidence we have of Brittonic shows similarities to Latin. Both contained case endings, which vanished in the language change. The noted translator Tony Conran believes this may have been a reaction to the retreat of Rome and the consequent invasions, as the huge stresses in British society were reflected in the language.
Labelled the Heroic Age, this is the period of the earliest Welsh poetry. The ninth century historian Nennius mentions five British poets famous in the sixth century. Unfortunately no work survives from Talhaiarn Cataguen, Bluchbard, and Cian. But the other two, Aneirin and Taliesin, are acknowledged as the earliest authors of Welsh poetry and known as the Cynfeirdd (Early Poets).
Aneirin is famous as the author of Y Gododdin, found in the 13th-century manuscript known as Llyfr Aneirin (Book of Aneirin) now kept in Cardiff City Library. The precise age of the poem is not known; it has been dated to anywhere between the 7th and the early 11th centuries.
The poem concerns a disastrous attempt by the Cumbric-speaking Gododdin tribe from southern Scotland to re-take Catterick in Yorkshire from a Germanic tribe in around 595 AD. Out of some 300 warriors only a handful, including Aneirin himself, survived. The poem is an elegy to those warriors.
As the poet of Y Gododdin, Aneirin is not that far removed from the druids who maintained the memories of the tribe. The poem is not only an artistic statement but also a ritual which ensures those warriors and their sacrifice will always be remembered. One of the fallen is compared to the mysterious Arthur, in the earliest known reference in world literature to this legendary figure.
When the Cumbric kingdoms were eventually overrun it appears that their culture and literature found a new home in Wales, possibly due to noblemen and Celtic monks fleeing to safety there. Cumbric was easily understood by speakers of Welsh and Y Gododdin became a well-known and respected poem. Indeed, it was referred to by the 12th century poet Prince Owain Cyfeiliog of Powys in his poem Hirlas Owain, which unlike Y Gododdin celebrates a victory.
In contrast to his contemporary Aneirin, Taliesin is associated with a number of poems. Little is known about his life but it is believed he came originally from Powys and moved north to find his most famous patron, Urien, king of Rheged in present day Cumberland, in the latter part of the sixth century. Taliesin became something of a mythic figure and features as a shaman or magician in early Welsh legend.
Both these poets were studied by the Welsh poets who followed them and continue to be studied today. They were masters of their art who inspired writers down the ages and provide important clues for British historians about what happened in the post-Roman age.
Next article: An official language
Previous article: Barbarians attack
Bookmark this page:
delicious
Digg
Reddit
Stumbleupon
facebook
What are these?
See also
An official language
Elsewhere on the BBC
Learn Welsh
National Eiesteddfod 2008
Voices
Elsewhere on the web
Welsh language board
Last of the Welsh monglots
Ancient druids of Wales
History blog
Explore the celebrated and lesser-known incidents in Welsh history, watch rare clips from BBC Wales' own archive, find out about history events in Wales.
July 1942: enemy action over Pwllheli
Britain might have been totally unprepared for war in 1939 but within ... 
By: Phil Carradice
Wales History
The Story of Wales
Your story. Our story.
Missed an episode? Catch up on the BBC iPlayer.
Watch preview clips
Follow us on Twitter
Family history
Getting started
Tracing your Welsh roots? Pick up some tips in our guides.
Research sources
Welsh naming
Migration
The Welsh in Patagonia
In 1865, the Mimosa, a tea-clipper set sail for South America.
Society and culture
The Welsh in North America
     BBC iD      BBC iD            Settings     Sign out         Search term:   BBC navigation News Sport Weather  iPlayer  TV Radio More…     CBBC CBeebies Comedy Food History Learning Music Science Nature Local Northern Ireland Scotland Wales Full A-Z of BBC sites       BBC links  Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC   Privacy Accessibility Help   Cookies Contact the BBC   Parental Guidance    BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.    