Multilingual ontology matching based on Wiktionary data accessible via SPARQL endpoint - NASA/ADS
Now on home page
 ads
 Enable full ADS
                    
 
view 
                Abstract
              
                Citations
              
                References
                (3)
                Co-Reads
              
                Similar Papers
              
                Volume Content
              
                  Graphics
                  
                  Metrics
                  
                Export Citation
              
NASA/ADS
                  
                  Multilingual ontology matching based on Wiktionary data accessible via SPARQL endpoint
                  
                  
Lin, Feiyu
;
                    
                    Krizhanovsky, Andrew
Abstract
                    Interoperability is a feature required by the Semantic Web. It is provided by the ontology matching methods and algorithms. But now ontologies are presented not only in English, but in other languages as well. It is important to use an automatic translation for obtaining correct matching pairs in multilingual ontology matching. The translation into many languages could be based on the Google Translate API, the Wiktionary database, etc. From the point of view of the balance of presence of many languages, of manually crafted translations, of a huge size of a dictionary, the most promising resource is the Wiktionary. It is a collaborative project working on the same principles as the Wikipedia. The parser of the Wiktionary was developed and the machine-readable dictionary was designed. The data of the machine-readable Wiktionary are stored in a relational database, but with the help of D2R server the database is presented as an RDF store. Thus, it is possible to get lexicographic information (definitions, translations, synonyms) from web service using SPARQL requests. In the case study, the problem entity is a task of multilingual ontology matching based on Wiktionary data accessible via SPARQL endpoint. Ontology matching results obtained using Wiktionary were compared with results based on Google Translate API.
                  
Publication:
arXiv e-prints
Pub Date:
September 2011
DOI:
10.48550/arXiv.1109.0732
arXiv:
arXiv:1109.0732
Bibcode:
                    2011arXiv1109.0732L
                    
Keywords:
Computer Science - Information Retrieval;
68W25;
90C35;
I.7.2;
I.7.3;
I.7.5;
H.3.1;
H.3.3
E-Print:
                    
                    8 pages, 3 tables, 4 figures, In: Proceedings of the 13th Russian Conference on Digital Libraries RCDL'2011. October 19-22, Voronezh, Russia. - pp. 19-26. (preprint)
                  
 
full text sources
arXiv
 
|
 
            © The SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System
            
 adshelp[at]cfa.harvard.edu
              
                The ADS is operated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory under NASA Cooperative
                Agreement NNX16AC86A
              Resources
            
 About ADS
                
 ADS Help
                
 What's New
                
 Careers@ADS
                
              Social
            
 @adsabs
                
 ADS Blog
                
              Project
            
Switch to full ADS
Is ADS down?
                  (or is it just me...)
Smithsonian Institution
Smithsonian Privacy
                  Notice
Smithsonian Terms of
                  Use
Smithsonian
                  Astrophysical Observatory
NASA
🌓