Lloyd's - The world’s specialist insurance market.
15 captures
27 Feb 2021 - 26 Mar 2023
Oct
FEB
Mar
27
2021
2023
2024
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Save Page Now
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20230227100951/https://www.lloyds.com/about-lloyds/value-proposition-coverholder
Skip to main content
Lloyd's around the world
Contact us
Log in
Search
Menu
About Lloyd’s
About Lloyd’s
                                            Welcome to Lloyd’s – the world’s insurance marketplace. Bringing together experts who share intelligence, judgement, capital and risk to create a braver world.
                                        
Back
View all ‘About Lloyd’s’
Our marketplace
Why Lloyd’s?
Our purpose
Our strategy
Our market
The Corporation
Our past
Our home
Our future
Working with Lloyd’s
Our people & culture
Culture at Lloyd’s
Careers
Our impact on society
ESG approach
Sustainability
Community involvement
Responsible business
Get in touch
Media centre
Investor relations
Contact us
Lloyd’s Pulse Survey
Join Lloyd’s market
Join Lloyd’s market
                                            Join the best minds in the market - access the expertise, knowledge and insights to protect and develop your business.
                                        
Back
View all ‘Join Lloyd’s market’
How to join the Lloyd’s market
As an underwriter
As a coverholder
As a broker
As an investor/member
As an InsurTech start-up
Careers at Lloyd’s
Careers
Market directory
Market directory
                                            Discover the breadth of the Lloyd’s marketplace and find the experts to support your risk - whatever the size and complexity.
                                        
Back
Go to Market directory
Our network
Brokers
Coverholders
Managing agents
Members agents
Open market correspondent
Memberships
Committees & associations
News & insights
News & insights
                                            Stay on top of all the latest news impacting the insurance marketplace and understand the innovations, trends and insights on the changing risk landscape.
                                        
Back
View all ‘News & insights’
News & communications
News
Market communications
Mind of the market
Events at Lloyd’s
Innovations & risk insight 
Lloyd’s Futureset
Lloyd’s Lab
Risk reports
Lloyd’s Product Launchpad
Disaster Risk Facility
Market insights
Insights Hub
Data & research
Market insight reports
Conducting business
Conducting business
                                            Discover our suite of tools and technologies to support your business needs.
                                        
Back
View all ‘Conducting business’
Policy & compliance
Regulatory tools (Crystal, Risk Locator & Stamp Decision Tool) 
Lloyd’s wordings repository
Business Timetable
Contract confidence
Regulatory information
Open Market Quality Assurance Tool (QA Tool)
Delegated Authority tools
Doprint
Mocha
Lineage
Coverholder Applications (ATLAS)
Delegated Contract & Oversight Manager
Delegated Audit Manager (AiMS)
 
Delegated Data Manager (DA SATS)
Binding Authority Quality Assurance Tool (QA Tool)
Faster Claims Payment
Core business
Underwriting
Third Party Oversight (Delegated Authority)
Member services
Requirements and standards
Customer Oversight
Reporting
Market data collections
Core market returns
Reporting Standards
Oversight at Lloyd’s
Market oversight
Resources & services
Resources & services
                                            Find and access the services you need to do your job.
                                        
Back
View all ‘Resources & services’
Finance
Tax information
Capital & reserving
Investment
Member Modeller
Funds at Lloyd’s
The Capital and Planning Group (CPG) 
Learning
Professional development
Learning at Lloyd’s
Services
Claims
Make a complaint
Policyholders
Lloyd’s Agency
SecureShare
Visiting the Lloyd’s building
Search
Why coverholders bring their business to Lloyd’s
Home
About Lloyd's
Why coverholders bring their business to Lloyd’s
Choice
Lloyd’s is the world’s largest insurance marketplace and global distribution network, competing and collaborating to share risk whatever the size, location, industry or complexity.
Brokers can grow their business in a truly global market. Lloyd’s can write onshore insurance in 80 countries, onshore reinsurance in 100 countries and offshore reinsurance in over 200 countries – giving you a capability to develop your business from around the world.
Read more
Confidence
We take pride in doing what’s right, paying all valid claims. For over three centuries the security of Lloyd’s has protected what matters most to people, businesses and communities and helped them recover in times of need.
Lloyd’s financial model ensures the stability of the market. With over £28bn net resources backing Lloyd’s policies and competitive financial ratings, your clients can have confidence that we will be there to meet their claim.
Read more
Partnership
The trusted relationships which underpin our marketplace are one of our greatest strengths. Our community of experts bring a collaborative culture to best serve our customers, enabling us to share risk.
Lloyd’s brokers thrive in the world’s most dynamic insurance centres. At Lloyd's you are able to make the most of your specialism and expertise, collaborating with the best underwriters to develop solutions and negotiate terms to meet your clients requirements.
Read more
Expertise
With an unrivalled depth and breadth of insurance expertise, Lloyd’s is the leading marketplace for protecting against new and emerging risks. We bring together the best minds in the industry, and together our underwriters and brokers create innovative, responsive solutions.
Insurance is a collaborative process and Lloyd’s has always been at the forefront of innovation, embracing new ideas and working with you to develop new products and solutions that respond to your and your clients needs.
Read more
Insight
Lloyd’s has always been an intelligence network and continues to lead the industry. Our insight, experience and judgement inform decision-making, enable innovation and ensure our customers stay resilient and ahead.
Lloyd’s Market Intelligence reports highlight key global opportunities by region and our country international office network combines local insight with global access, to help inform your business strategies.
Read more
Ecosystem
As a marketplace, Lloyd’s provides access to economies of scale through consistent standards and shared business services. Our competitive environment and capital efficiencies improve performance and unlock new opportunities.
Our central infrastructure and processes provides a competitive advantage with modern operations and systems – through central claims settlement to electronic risk placement, our infrastructure works alongside yours to make it easier to do business.
Read more
Subscribe for the latest updates
Future at Lloyd’s updates
Lloyd’s Futureset updates 
Market Bulletins
Risk reports
Tax news & updates
Support
Contact us
FAQs
Glossary & acronyms
Useful organisations
Accessibility
Legal
Privacy
Cookies
Terms & conditions
Modern Slavery Act
Lloyd’s Copyright 2023
Lloyd’s and Corporation of Lloyd’s are registered trademarks of the Society of Lloyd’s
Lloyd’s is authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000