Aromanian language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Geographic distribution
2Official status
3History
4Dialects
5Standardization efforts
6Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
6.1Consonants
6.2Vowels
7Orthography
8Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
8.1Verbs
8.1.1Future tense
8.1.2Pluperfect
8.1.3Gerund
9Current situation
Toggle Current situation subsection
9.1Media
9.2Situation in Greece
10Language samples
Toggle Language samples subsection
10.1Fãrshãrot 1
10.2Fãrshãrot 2
10.3Grãmushtean
10.4Universal Declaration of Human Rights
11Comparison with Romanian
12Common words and phrases
13See also
14References
Toggle References subsection
14.1Citations
14.2Bibliography
15External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Aromanian language
77 languages
AfrikaansالعربيةAragonésArmãneashtiArpetanAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaelgGalego한국어HrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaItalianoעבריתKernowekLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLimburgsLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംNederlands日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanپنجابیPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt吴语粵語中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadView sourceView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Not to be confused with Armenian language, Romanian language, or Romani language.
Romance language of the Balkans
AromanianVlachMacedo-Romanianlimba armãneascã, limba armãnã, armãneashti, armãneashte, armãneashci, armãneashce, limba rãmãneascã, limba rãmãnã, rrãmãneshtiNative toGreece, Albania, North Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania, SerbiaRegionBalkansEthnicityAromaniansNative speakers210,000 (2018)[1]Language familyIndo-European
ItalicLatino-FaliscanRomanceEastern RomanceBalkan RomanceAromanianEarly formsProto-Indo-European
Proto-Italic
Old Latin
Vulgar Latin
Proto-Romance
Common Romanian[2]
Dialects
Farsherot (incl. Muzachiar)
Moscopolean
Gopeš–Malovište
Pindean (incl. Olympiot)
Gramostean
Writing systemLatin (Aromanian alphabet)Official statusRecognised minoritylanguage in Albania North MacedoniaLanguage codesISO 639-2rupISO 639-3rupGlottologarom1237ELPAromanianLinguasphere51-AAD-baDistribution and dialects of the Aromanian language in the southwestern BalkansThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Part of a series onAromanians
Etymology
List of Aromanians
Geographical distribution
By country
Albania
Bulgaria
Greece
North Macedonia
Romania
Serbia
Diaspora
Major settlements
Moscopole
Muzachia
Metsovo
Pindus
Kruševo
Gramos
Grabova
Farsala
Culture
Cuisine
Folk dance
Music
Traditional clothing
Language and identity
Alphabet
Anthem
Flag
National day
Nationalism
Religion
Eastern Orthodoxy
Aromanian Orthodox Church
History
Romanization
Great Vlachia
Aromanian question
Ullah millet
Samarina Republic
Principality of the Pindus
Recommendation 1333 (1997)
Related groups
Romanians
Moldovans
Megleno-Romanians
Istro-Romanians
vte
Eastern Romance languages
Vulgar Latin languageSubstratumThraco-Roman culture
Romanian
including Moldovan
Alphabet
Romanian Cyrillic
Moldovan Cyrillic
Grammar
Nouns
Verbs
Numbers
Phonology
Lexis
Regulating bodies
Romanian Academy
Academy of Sciences of Moldova
Aromanian
Alphabet
Megleno-Romanian
Istro-Romanian
Alphabet
Grammar
vte
An Aromanian speaking in the Gramostean dialect, recorded in Bucharest, Romania
The Aromanian language (Aromanian: limba armãneascã, limba armãnã, armãneashti, armãneashte, armãneashci, armãneashce or limba rãmãneascã, limba rãmãnã, rrãmãneshti), also known as Vlach or Macedo-Romanian, is an Eastern Romance language, similar to Megleno-Romanian, Istro-Romanian and Romanian,[3] spoken in Southeastern Europe. Its speakers are called Aromanians or Vlachs (a broader term and an exonym in widespread use to define Romance communities in the Balkans). Some scholars, mostly Romanian ones, consider Aromanian a dialect of Romanian.
Aromanian shares many features with modern Romanian, including similar morphology and syntax, as well as a large common vocabulary inherited from Latin. An important source of dissimilarity between Romanian and Aromanian is the adstratum languages (external influences); whereas Romanian has been influenced to a greater extent by the Slavic languages, Aromanian has been more influenced by Greek, with which it has been in close contact throughout its history.[4]
Geographic distribution
Aromanian is native to Albania, Bulgaria, Greece, North Macedonia, Romania and Serbia. In 2018, it was estimated that Aromanian had 210,000 native speakers, of which 50,000 were in Albania, 50,000 in Greece, 50,000 in Romania, 32,000 in Serbia, 18,200 in Macedonia, and 9,800 in Bulgaria.[1] Aromanian-speakers also exist in the diaspora, with at least 53 speakers recorded to be living in Australia at the time of the 2021 Australian census.[5]
Official status
Aromanian has a degree of official recognition in North Macedonia, where it is taught as a subject in some primary schools. In North Macedonia, Aromanian-speakers also have the right to use the language in court proceedings. Since 2006, Aromanian has had the status of a second official municipal language in the city of Kruševo,[6] the only place in the world where Aromanian has any kind of official status apart from general state recognition.
Apart from North Macedonia, the Aromanians are also recognized in Albania as a national minority.[7]
History
See also: Common Romanian
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 Dictionary of four Balkan languages (Greek, Aromanian, Bulgarian and Albanian), by Daniel Moscopolites
Aromanian, Daco-Romanian (Romanian), Istro-Romanian language, and Megleno-Romanian language are descendants of a proto-language called Common Romanian, itself descending from the Proto-Romance language. No later than the 10th century Common Romanian split into southern and northern dialects, and Aromanian and Romanian have developed differently from these two distinct dialects of the proto language over the course of the next one thousand years.[8]
Greek influences are much stronger in Aromanian than in other Eastern Romance languages, especially because Aromanian has used Greek words to coin new words (neologisms), especially within Greece, while Romanian has based most of its neologisms on French. However, there has also been an increasing tendency for Aromanian-speakers outside of Greece to borrow terms from Romanian, due to the shared alphabet and contact with Romanian over the Internet, where Romanian-language material is much more available than it is in Aromanian.
With the arrival of the Turks in the Balkans, Aromanian also received some Turkish words. Still, the lexical composition remains mainly Romance.
Compared to other Balkan languages, the earliest documents and manuscripts of Aromanian appear late. This is due to the historical predominance of the Greek language in the region and the successive destruction of Aromanian books and documents throughout history. The oldest known written text in the language is an inscription from 1731 by Nektarios Terpos at the Ardenica Monastery, now in Albania. It is followed by the inscription of the so-called Simota Vase, dated to the first half of the 18th century. In the Monastery of the Holy Apostles near Kleino (Aromanian: Clinova), now Greece, there is an inscription in Aromanian dated from around 1780. The St. Athanasius Church in Moscopole, now Albania, also includes an old Aromanian writing. Other early Aromanian manuscripts are the Aromanian Missal potentially from the beginning of the 18th century, the works of Theodore Kavalliotis (1770), Constantin Ucuta (1797), Daniel Moscopolites (1802), Gheorghe Constantin Roja (1808/1809) and Mihail G. Boiagi (1813) and the Codex Dimonie possibly from the early 19th century.[9]
Dialects
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Aromanian is not a homogenous linguistic entity. Its main varieties include the Pindus type, the Gramoste type, the Farsherot type, Olympus type, and the Moscopole type.[10]
It has also several regional variants, named after places that were home to significant populations of Aromanians (Vlachs); nowadays located in Albania, North Macedonia and Greece. Examples are the Moscopole variant; the Muzachiar variant from Muzachia in central Albania; the variant of Bitola; Pelister, Malovište (Aromanian: Mulovishti), Gopeš (Aromanian: Gopish), Upper Beala; Gorna Belica (Aromanian: Beala di Suprã) near Struga, Kruševo (Aromanian: Crushuva), and the variant east of the Vardar river in North Macedonia.
Standardization efforts
The Aromanian language is not standardized. However, there have been some efforts to do so. Notable examples include those of Matilda Caragiu Marioțeanu [ro],[11] Tiberius Cunia [bg; ro; roa-rup][12] and Iancu Ballamaci.[13]
Phonology
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Aromanian exhibits several differences from standard Romanian in its phonology, some of which are probably due to influence from Greek or Albanian. It has spirants that do not exist in Romanian, such as /θ, ð, x, ɣ/ and which are a Greek influence. Other differences are the sound /ts/, which corresponds to Romanian /tʃ/, and the sounds: /ʎ/ and /ɲ/, which exist only in local variants in Romanian. Aromanian is usually written with a version of the Latin script with an orthography that resembles both that of Albanian (in the use of digraphs such as dh, sh, and th) and Italian (in its use of c and g), along with the letter ã, used for the sounds represented in Romanian by ă and â/î. It can also be written with a modified Romanian alphabet that includes two additional letters, ń and ľ, and rarely with a version of the Greek script.
Compared to Daco-Romanian, the Aromanian varieties have preserved from Proto-Romanian the word-final glide [w] alongside [j] (in the Pindean and Gramostean types), while the Farsharot and Grabovean types do not have neither diphthongs nor the phoneme /ɨ/.[14]
Consonants
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Post-alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
central
sibilant
Stop
voiceless
p
t
c
k
voiced
b
d
ɟ
ɡ
Affricate
voiceless
t͡s
t͡ʃ
voiced
d͡z
d͡ʒ
Fricative
voiceless
f
θ
s
ʃ
[ç]
x
(h)
voiced
v
ð
z
ʒ
[ʝ]
ɣ
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
Trill
r
Approximant
lateral
l
ʎ
central
j
w
Central approximant consonants only occur as a result of a word-initial or intervocalic [i] and [u] when preceding another vowel.
/x/, /ɣ/ can have allophones as [ç], [ʝ] when preceding front vowels.
/x/, /h/ are in free variation among different dialects.[15][16]
Vowels
Front
Central
Back
Close
i
ɨ
u
Mid
e
ə
o
Open
a
Two vowel sounds /ɨ, ə/ are both represented by one grapheme; ã.
Orthography
The Aromanian alphabet consists of 27 letters and 9 digraphs.[17][18][19]
Letter
Name[20]
Pronunciation (IPA)
Notes
A, a
a
/a/
–
Ã, ã
ã
/ə/, /ɨ/
For /ɨ/, "â" may be used
B, b
bã
/b/
–
C, c
cã
/k/, /tʃ/, /x/
/k/ when followed by "a", "o", "u" or a consonant (/x/ in some dialects); /tʃ/ when followed by "e" or "i"
D, d
dã
/d/
–
Dh, dh
dhã
/ð/
Used only for notation in particular accents where this phoneme is present, otherwise "d" is used
Dz, dz
dzã
/dz/
–
E, e
e
/ɛ/
–
F, f
fã
/f/
–
G, g
gã
/ɡ/, /dʒ/, /ɣ/
/ɡ/ before "a", "o", "u" or a consonant (/ɣ/ in some dialects); /dʒ/ before "e" and "i"
H, h
hã
/h/
–
I, i
i
/i/
–
J, j
jã
/ʒ/
K, k
ca
/c/
before "e" or "i" only
L, l
lã
/l/
–
Lj, lj
lj
/ʎ/
Found in Macedonian Latin alphabet
M, m
mã
/m/
–
N, n
nã
/n/
–
Nj, nj
nj
/ɲ/
Found in Macedonian Latin alphabet
O, o
o
/o/
–
P, p
pã
/p/
–
Q, q
kiu
/k/
Used only in foreign words – "c" is normally used instead
R, r
rã
/r/
–
Rr, rr
rrã
?
Used only for notation in particular accents where this phoneme is present, otherwise "r" is used
S, s
sã
/s/
–
Sh, sh
shã
/ʃ/
–
T, t
tã
/t/
–
Th, th
thã
/θ/
Used only for notation in particular accents where this phoneme is present, otherwise "t" is used
Ts, ts
tsã
/ts/
–
U, u
u
/u/
–
V, v
vã
/v/
–
W, w
dublã vã
/w/
Used only in foreign words
X, x
csã/gzã
/ks/, /ɡz/
Same pronunciation as found in English
Y, y
i greacã
/j/, /ɣ/
/j/ before "e" and "i", /ɣ/ elsewhere
Z, z
zã
/z/
–
In addition, the digraph "gj" (/ɟ/ before "e" and "i") is used as well.
Grammar
Mihail G. Boiagi's 1813 Aromanian grammar book, "Romanic or Macedono-Vlach Grammar". Written in German and Greek, it includes Aromanian texts and introduced the first writing system for Aromanian in the Latin alphabet.
The grammar and morphology are very similar to those of other Romance languages:
It has two grammatical numbers: singular and plural (no dual).
It is a null-subject language.
Verbs have many conjugations, including:
A present tense, a preterite, an imperfect, a pluperfect and a future tense in the indicative mood, for statements of fact.
An imperative mood, for direct commands.
Three non-finite forms: infinitive, gerund, and past participle.
Distinct active and passive voices, as well as an impersonal passive voice.
The Aromanian language has some exceptions from the Romance languages, some of which are shared with Romanian: the definite article is a clitic particle appended at the end of the word, both the definite and indefinite articles can be inflected, and nouns are classified in three genders, with neuter in addition to masculine and feminine.
Verbs
Aromanian grammar has features that distinguish it from Romanian, an important one being the complete disappearance of verb infinitives, a feature of the Balkan sprachbund. As such, the tenses and moods that, in Romanian, use the infinitive (like the future simple tense and the conditional mood) are formed in other ways in Aromanian. For the same reason, verb entries in dictionaries are given in their indicative mood, present tense, first-person-singular form.
Aromanian verbs are classified in four conjugations. The table below gives some examples and indicates the conjugation of the corresponding verbs in Romanian.[21]
Conjugation
Aromanian(ind. pres. 1st sg.)
Romanian(ind. pres. 1st sg.)
Romanian(infinitive)
English
I
cãntu dau lucredzu
cânt dau lucrez
a cânta I a da I a lucra I
sing give work
II
ved shed rrãmãn
văd șed rămân
a vedea II a ședea II a rămâne III (or a rămânea II)
see sit stay
III
duc cunoscu ardu
duc cunosc ard
a duce III a cunoaște III a arde III
carry, lead know burn
IV
mor fug ndultsescu
mor fug îndulcesc
a muri IV a fugi IV a îndulci IV
die run away, flee sweeten
Future tense
The future tense is formed using an auxiliary invariable particle "u" or "va" and the subjunctive mood.
Aromanianfãrshãrot/  grãmushtean
Romanian(archaic)
Romanian(colloquial)
Romanian(modern)
English
u s'cãntu/ va s'cãntu
va să cânt
o să cânt
voi cânta
I will sing
u s'cãnts/ va s'cãnts
va să cânți
o să cânți
vei cânta
you (sg.) will sing
u s'cãntã/ va s'cãntã
va să cânte
o să cânte
va cânta
(s)he will sing
u s'cãntãm/ va s'cãntãm
va să cântăm
o să cântăm
vom cânta
we will sing
u s'cãntatsi/ va s'cãntats
va să cântați
o să cântați
veți cânta
you (pl.) will sing
u s'cãntã/ va s'cãntã
va să cânte
o să cânte
vor cânta
they will sing
Pluperfect
Whereas in Romanian the pluperfect (past perfect) is formed synthetically (as in literary Portuguese), Aromanian uses a periphrastic construction with the auxiliary verb am (have) as the imperfect (aviam) and the past participle, as in Spanish and French, except that French replaces avoir (have) with être (be) for some intransitive verbs. Aromanian shares this feature with Meglenian as well as other languages in the Balkan language area.
Only the auxiliary verb inflects according to number and person (aviam, aviai, avia, aviamu, aviatu, avia), whereas the past participle does not change.[22]
Aromanianfãrshãrot/ grãmushtean
Meglenian
Romanian
English
avia mãcatã/ avea mãcatã
vea mancat
mâncase
(he/she) had eaten
avia durnjitã/ avea durnjitã
vea durmit
dormise
(he/she) had slept
Gerund
The Aromanian gerund is applied to some verbs, but not all. These verbs are:
1st conjugation: acatsã (acãtsãnd), portu, lucreadzã/lucreashce, adiljã/adiljeashce.
2nd conjugation: armãnã, cade, poate, tatse, veade.
3rd conjugation: arupã, dipune, dutse, dzãse, fatsi/featse, tradzi/tradze, scrie.
4th conjugation: apire, doarme, hivrie, aure, pate, avde.
Current situation
Media
The Macedonian Radio Television (Macedonian: Македонска радиотелевизија, transliteration: Makedonska radiotelevizija) (MRT) produces radio and television broadcasts in Aromanian.
Radio Romania International has Aromanian service producing radio shows in Aromanian.[23]
Films produced in the Aromanian language include Toma Enache's I'm Not Famous but I'm Aromanian (2013), the first in Aromanian.[24]
Situation in Greece
Romanian schools for Aromanians and Megleno-Romanians in the Ottoman Empire (1886)
Use of the Aromanian language in the Florina Prefecture, Greece
Even before the incorporation of various Aromanian-speaking territories into the Greek state (1832, 1912), the language was subordinated to Greek, traditionally the language of education and religion in Constantinople and other prosperous urban cities. The historical studies cited below (mostly Capidan) show that especially after the fall of Moscopole (1788) the process of Hellenisation via education and religion gained a strong impetus mostly among people doing business in the cities.
The Romanian state began opening schools for the Romanian-influenced Vlachs in the 1860s, but this initiative was regarded with suspicion by the Greeks, who thought that Romania was trying to assimilate them. 19th-century travellers in the Balkans such as W. M. Leake and Henry Fanshawe Tozer noted that Vlachs in the Pindus and Macedonia were bilingual, reserving the Latin dialect for inside the home.[25]
By 1948, the new Soviet-imposed communist regime of Romania had closed all Romanian-run schools outside Romania and, since the closure, there has been no formal education in Aromanian and speakers have been encouraged to learn and use the Greek language. This has been a process encouraged by the community itself and is not an explicit State policy. The decline and isolation of the Romanian orientated groups was not helped by the fact that they openly collaborated with the Axis powers of Italy and Germany during the occupation of Greece in WWII. Notably, the vast majority of Vlachs fought in the Greek resistance and a number of their villages were destroyed by the Germans.
The issue of Aromanian-language education is a sensitive one, partly because of opposition within the Greek Vlachs community to actions leading to the introduction of the language into the education system, viewing it as an artificial distinction between them and other Greeks.[citation needed] For example, the former education minister, George Papandreou, received a negative response from Greek-Aromanian mayors and associations to his proposal for a trial Aromanian language education programme. The Panhellenic Federation of Cultural Associations of Vlachs expressed strong opposition to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's Recommendation 1333 (1997) that the tuition of Aromanian be supported so as to avoid its extinction.[26] This recommendation was issued after pressure from the Union for Aromanian Language and Culture in Germany.[27] On a visit to Metsovo, Epirus in 1998, Greek President Konstantinos Stephanopoulos called on Vlachs to speak and teach their language, but its decline continues.[citation needed]
A recent example of the sensitivity of the issue was the 2001 conviction (later overturned in the Appeals Court) to 15 months in jail of Sotiris Bletsas,[28][29] a Greek Aromanian who was found guilty of "dissemination of false information" after he distributed informative material on minority languages in Europe (which included information on minority languages of Greece), produced by the European Bureau for Lesser Used Languages and financed by the European Commission. His conviction met with broad condemnation in Greece, where at least one editorial compared the situation to the suppression of Kurdish and other minority languages in Turkey and noted the irony that some prosecutors in fact came from non-Hellenophone families that had once spoken Aromanian or Turkish.[30] Bletsas was eventually acquitted.[31]
Language samples
Fãrshãrot 1
Tatã a nostu tsi eshti tu tser,
si ayisiascã numa a Ta,
s’yinã amirãria a Ta,
si facã vrearea a Ta,
cum tu tser, ashã sh'pisti loc.
Pãnia a nostã, atsa di cathi dzuã, dãnu sh’azã,
sh‘ yiartãni amartiili a nosti,
ashe cum li yiãrtãm sh’noi a amãrtor a noci,
sh’nu ni du la pirazmo,
ma viagljãni di atsel rãu.
Cã a Ta esti amirãria sh'puteria,
a Tatãlui shi Hiljãlui shi a Ayiului Spirit,
tora, totãna sh’tu eta a etilor.
Amin.
Fãrshãrot 2
Tati a nost tsi esht tu tser,
s’ayiãsiaste numa a Ta,
s’zine amirãria a Ta,
si fache vrera a Ta,
cum tu tser, ashe sh'pisti loc.
Penia a noste, atsa di cathi dzue, denu sh’aze,
sh‘ yiartãni amartiãli a nosti,
ashe cum li yiãrtem sh’noi a amãrtor a noci,
sh’nu ni du la pirazmo,
ma viagãni di atsel reu.
Che a Ta esti amirãria sh'putera,
al Tati shi al Hiyiu shi al Ayiu Duh,
tora, totãna sh’tu eta a etãlu.
Amin.
Grãmushtean
Tatã a nostu, tsi eshtsã tu tseru,
s'ayiseascã numa a Ta,
s'yinã amirãriljea a Ta,
si facã vrearea a Ta,
cumu tu tseru, ashi sh'pisti locu.
Pãnea a nostã atsea di cathi dzuã dãnãu sh'adzã
sh'yiartãnã amãrtiile a noasti
ashi cum ilj yirtãmu sh'noi a amãrtoshloru a noshtsã.
Sh'nu nã du tu pirazmo,
Sh'aveagljinã di atsel arãulu.
Cã a Ta easti Amirãriljia sh'putearea
a Tatãlui shi Hiljãlui sh a Ayiului Duhu,
tora, totna sh tu eta a etilor.
Amen.
The Lord's Prayer – source
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Dina Cuvata translated Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as follows:
Tuti iatsãli umineshtsã s'fac liberi shi egali la nãmuzea shi ndrepturli. Eali suntu hãrziti cu fichiri shi sinidisi shi lipseashti un cu alantu sh si poartã tu duhlu a frãtsãljiljei.
Comparison with Romanian
The following text is given for comparison in Aromanian and in Romanian, with an English translation. The spelling of Aromanian is that decided at the Bitola Symposium of August 1997. The word choice in the Romanian version was such that it matches the Aromanian text, although in modern Romanian other words might have been more appropriate. The English translation is only provided as a guide to the meaning, with an attempt to keep the word order as close to the original as possible.
Aromanian
Romanian
English
Vocala easti unã son dit zburãrea a omlui, faptu cu tritsearea sonorã, libirã sh'fãrã cheadicã, a vimtului prit canalu sonor (adrat di coardili vocali shi ntreaga gurã) icã un semnu grafic cari aspuni un ahtari son.
Vocala este un sunet din vorbirea omului, făcut cu trecerea sonoră, liberă și fără piedică, a aerului prin canalul sonor (compus din coardele vocale și întreaga gură) sau un semn grafic care reprezintă un atare sunet.
The vowel is a sound in human speech, made by the sonorous, free and unhindered passing of the air through the sound channel (composed of the vocal cords and the whole mouth) or a graphic symbol corresponding to that sound.
Ashi bunãoarã, avem shasili vocali tsi s'fac cu vimtul tsi treatsi prit gurã, iu limba poati si s'aflã tu un loc icã altu shi budzãli pot si sta dishcljisi unã soe icã altã.
Așa, avem șase vocale ce se fac cu aerul ce trece prin gură, unde limba poate să se afle într-un loc sau altul și buzele pot să stea deschise într-un soi sau altul.
This way, we have six vowels that are produced by the air passing through the mouth, where the tongue can be in one place or another and the lips can be opened in one way or another.
Vocalili pot s'hibã pronuntsati singuri icã deadun cu semivocali i consoani.
Vocalele pot să fie pronunțate singure sau împreună cu semivocale sau consoane.
The vowels can be pronounced alone or together with semivowels or consonants.
 
Common words and phrases
English
Aromanian
Aromanian (person)
(m.) Armãn/ rrãmãn, (f.) armãnã/ rrãmãnã
Aromanian (language)
Limba armãneascã/ limba rrãmãneascã; armãneashti/ armãneashte / armãneashci / armãneashce / rrãmãneshti
Good day!
Bunã dzua!
What's your name?
Cum ti chiamã? (informal)
How old are you?
Di cãtsi anji esht?
How are you?
Cumu hits? (formal) Cumu eshti?/ Cumu eshci? (informal)
What are you doing?
Tsi fats?/ Tsi adari? (popular)
Goodbye!
S'nã videmu cu ghine!/ Ghini s'ni videmu!/ Ghini s'ni vãdem!
Bye!
S'nã avdzãmu ghiniatsa!/ Sã s'avdzãm buniatsa! 
Please.
Vã plãcãrsescu. (formal) Ti plãcãrsescu. (informal)
Sorry.
S'mi hãrãdzesht.
Thank you.
Haristo.
Yes.
Ye/ E.
No.
Nu.
I don't understand.
Nu adukiescu/ Nu akicãsescu.
I don't know.
Nu shtiu/ Nu shciu.
Where's the bathroom?
Yu esti tualetu? / Yu easti toaletlu?/ Yu easte tualetu?
Do you speak English?
Zburats / Grits – anglikiashti? / anglicheashce?
I am a student.
Mini est / estu un student/ Mine escu un student.
I am a good person.
Mini est / estu un om bun
You are beautiful.
Eshti mushat(ã)/ Eshci mushat(ã)/ Hi mushat(ã)/ Esht mushat(e).
See also
Language portal
Aromanian alphabet
Common Romanian
Substrate in Romanian
Balkan sprachbund
Origin of the Romanians
Thraco-Roman
Daco-Roman
Eastern Romance languages
Romance languages
Legacy of the Roman Empire
Latin-Greek connection
References
Citations
^ a b Aromanian at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ Dindelegan, Gabriela Pană; Maiden, Martin, eds. (2013). The Grammar of Romanian. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199644926.
^ "Romanian Language". britannica.com. Archived from the original on 2008-07-26. Retrieved 2018-05-17.
^ Ntasiou, Evegenia (2017). Communities in Control:Learning tools and strategies for multilingualendangered language communities. Foundation for Endangered Languages. p. 71. ISBN 978-0-9560210-9-0.
^ "SBS Australian Census Explorer". SBS News. Retrieved 2023-04-14.
^ Aromanians Archived March 1, 2007, at the Wayback Machine
^ Stan, Liviu G. (19 October 2017). "Moment istoric: Aromânii, recunoscuți prin lege ca minoritate națională în Albania". InfoPrut (in Romanian).
^ Vrabie, Emil (2000). An English-Aromanian (Macedo-Romanian) Dictionary. Romance Monographs. p. 78-79. ISBN 1-889441-06-6.
^ Kahl, Thede; Prifti, Elton (2016). "Geschichte der Kodifizierung des Aromunischen". In Dahmen, Wolfgang; Holtus, Günter; Kramer, Johannes; Metzeltin, Michael; Schweickard, Wolfgang; Winkelmann, Otto (eds.). Romanische Kleinsprachen heute: Romanistisches Kolloquium XXVII. Tübinger Beiträge zur Linguistik (in German). Vol. 546. Narr Francke Attempto Verlag. pp. 33–64. ISBN 9783823378815.
^ Vrabie, Emil (2000). An English-Aromanian (Macedo-Romanian) Dictionary. Romance Monographs. p. 78-79. ISBN 1-889441-06-6.
^ Caragiu Marioțeanu, Matilda, capitolul „Dialectul aromân”, Iorgu Iordan (coord.), Crestomație romanică, vol. III, partea I, București, Editura Academiei, 1968; online: Dialectul aromân, Avdhela Project – Library of Aromanian Culture.
^ Cunia, Tiberius, Dictsiunar a limbãljei armãneascã, Constanța, Editura Cartea Aromână, 2010.
^ Ballamaci, Iancu, Metoda aromână/vlahă, București, Predania, Avdhela Project – Library of Aromanian Culture, 2010, ISBN 978-606-8195-07-0.
^ Dragomirescu, Alina (27 October 2020). "Balkan-Romance".{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: url-status (link)
^ Béis, Stamatis (2000). Le parler aroumain de Metsovo: Déscription d'une langue en voie de disparition [The Aromanian language of Metsovo: Description of an endangered language] (Doctoral thesis) (in French). Université Paris 5 René Descartes.
^ Caragiu Marioțeanu, Matilda (1997). Dicționar aromân (Macedo-vlah) [Aromanian Dictionary (Macedo-Vlach)]. Bucharest: Editura Enciclopedică. pp. xxviii–xxxvii.
^ Aromanian alphabet at Omniglot
^ Cunia, Tiberius. On the Standardisation of the Aromanian System of Writing Archived February 21, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
^ "Bana Armâneascâ". Archived from the original on 2022-03-28. Retrieved 2021-04-06.
^ "Bana Armâneascâ". Archived from the original on 2022-03-28. Retrieved 2021-04-06.
^ Iancu Ianachieschi-Vlahu Gramatica armãneascã simplã shi practicã, Crushuva 1993, 1997; Μιχάλη Μπογιάτζη Βλαχική ήτοι μάκεδοβλαχική γραμματική Βιέννη, and Κατσάνης Ν., Κ. Ντίνας, 1990, Γραμματική της κοινής Κουτσοβλαχικής.
^ Iancu Ianachieschi-Vlahu Gramatica simplã shi practicã, Crushuva 1993, 1997.
^ "Radio Romania International".
^ "Primul film realizat în limba aromână este povestea romantică a lui Toni Caramuşat". Observator (in Romanian). Retrieved 2021-03-09.
^ Weigand, in his 1888 Die Sprache der Olympo-Wallachen, nebst einer Einleitung über Land und Leute remarks: "By inclination, the Livadhiotes are zealous advocates of Greek ideas and would much prefer to be unified with Greece" (p.15).
^ "ΠΟΠΣΒ – Διοικητικό Συμβούλιο" [POPSV – Board of Directors]. vlahos.xan.duth.gr (in Greek). 18 March 2004. Archived from the original on 12 August 2014.
^ Baicu, Cornel (29 August 2003). ""Rumänien ist für uns eine zweite Heimat"" (in German). Deutsche Welle.
^ "It's Not Greek Enough to Them". vlachophiles.net. 13 July 2001. Archived from the original on 2012-02-04. Retrieved 2007-01-17.
^ "15-month prison sentence handed down to Mr Sotiris Bletsas for distributing information material financed by the Commission". European Parliament. 8 January 2002. Retrieved 2020-11-12.
^ "Διασπορά αληθινών ειδήσεων" [Dissemination of real news]. iospress.gr (in Greek). February 10, 2001. Archived from the original on 3 March 2016. Retrieved 9 February 2016.
^ Haggman, Johan (18 December 2001). "Minority Language Activist, Bletsas Found Not Guilty in Historic Court Decision". European Free Alliance – Rainbow. Archived from the original on 30 November 2007.
Bibliography
Bara, Mariana. Le lexique latin hérité en aroumain dans une perspective romane. Munich: Lincom Europa, 2004, 231 p.; ISBN 3-89586-980-5.
Bara, Mariana. Limba armănească: Vocabular şi stil. Bucharest: Editura Cartea Universitară, 2007, ISBN 978-973-731-551-9.
Berciu-Drăghicescu, Adina; Petre, Maria. Şcoli şi Biserici româneşti din Peninsula Balcanică: Documente (1864–1948). Bucharest: Editura Universităţii, 2004.
Capidan, Theodor. Aromânii, dialectul Aromân. Academia Română, Studii şi Cercetări, XX 1932.
Caragiu Marioțeanu, Matilda. Dicționar aromân (Macedo-vlah). Bucarest: Editura Enciclopedică, 1997.
Friedman, Victor A. “The Vlah Minority in Macedonia: Language, Identity, Dialectology, and Standardization”, in Selected Papers in Slavic, Balkan, and Balkan Studies, eds. Juhani Nuoluoto, Martti Leiwo, & Jussi Halla-aho. Slavica Helsingiensa 21. University of Helsinki, 2001. online
Gołąb, Zbigniew. The Arumanian Dialect of Kruševo, SR Macedonia. Skopje: MANU, 1984.
Kahl, Thede. "Aromanians in Greece: Minority or Vlach-speaking Greeks?". Society Farsharotu. Archived from the original on 2007-08-08.
Kahl, Thede. “Sprache und Intention der ersten aromunischen Textdokumente, 1731–1809”, in Festschrift für Gerhard Birkfellner zum 65. Geburtstag: Studia Philologica Slavica I/I, ed. Bernhard Symanzik. Münstersche Texte zur Slavistik, 2006, p. 245–266.
Marangozis, John. An Introduction to Vlach Grammar. Munich: Lincom Europa, 2010.
Markoviḱ, Marjan. Aromanskiot i makedonskiot govor od ohridsko-struškiot region: vo balkanski kontekst [Aromanian and Macedonian dialects of the Ohrid-Struga region: in Balkan context]. Skopje: Makedonska akademija na naukite i umetnostite, 2007.
Pascu, Giorge. Dictionnaire étymologique macédoroumain, 2 vols. Iaşi: Cultura Naţionalâ, 1918.
Rosetti, Alexandru. Istoria limbii române, 2 vols. Bucharest, 1965–1969.
"The Little Prince" by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry in Aromanian. Njiclu amirārush. Translated by Maria Bara and Thede Kahl, ISBN 978-3-937467-37-5.
Vrabie, Emil. An English-Aromanian (Macedo-Romanian) Dictionary. University, Miss.; Stratford, CT: Romance monographs, 2000.
Weigand, Gustav. Die Sprache der Olympo-Wallachen, nebst einer Einleitung über Land und Leute. Leipzig: Johann Ambrosius Barth, 1888.
External links
 Aromanian  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Look up Aromanian in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
"Dictionary in Aromanian Language".
Aromanian Language website
Στα Βλάχικα – In Vlach: A website about the Vlach language in Greece
Aromanian Swadesh list of basic vocabulary words (from Wiktionary's Swadesh list appendix)
Aromanian basic lexicon at the Global Lexicostatistical Database
Asterios Koukoudis: Studies on the Vlachs
Greek Helsinki Human Rights Organization: Aromanians (Vlachs) in Greece
Conjugation of verbs in Aromanian and Istro-Romanian Archived 2008-12-19 at the Wayback Machine
Romanian and the Balkans, with some references to Aromanian
Greek Vlach website
Consiliul A Tinirlor Armanj – CTARM, webpage about Youth Aromanians and their projects
Armans Association from Serbia
Armans Cultural Association from Romania
Η βλαχική γλώσσα στο γλώσσες και αλφάβητα του κόσμου
EVANGHELU PI DUPI LUKA (The Gospel according to Luke in Aromanian).
vte AromaniansNames
Aromanians
Vlachs
Koutsovlachs
Macedo-Romanians
Macedonians
Tsintsars
History
Origin of the Aromanians
Vlach uprising of 1066
Great Vlachia
Ottoman era
Macedonian Struggle
Ottoman Aromanians in Romanian foreign policy
Romanian churches in the Balkans
Romanian schools in the Balkans
Armatoles
Chetas
Ullah millet
World War I
Samarina Republic
World War II
Population exchange between Bulgaria and Romania
Roman Legion (1941–1943)
Principality of the Pindus
Recommendation 1333 (1997)
Identity
Genetic studies on Aromanians
Aromanian nationalism
Aromanian studies
Aromanian territorial self-determination
Aromanian question
Grecoman
Flag of the Aromanians
Football team
Aromanian National Day
Dimãndarea pãrinteascã
Military history
Political parties
Alliance for Equality and European Justice
Democratic Union of the Vlachs of Macedonia
Party of the Vlachs of Macedonia
Culture
Aromanian cuisine
Aromanian folk dance
Aromanian language
alphabet
dialects
Bible translations into Aromanian
Influence on Slavic languages
Aromanian-language names
Aromanian literature
Aromanian Missal
Codex Dimonie
Aromanian mass media
I'm Not Famous but I'm Aromanian
Newspapers
Românul de la Pind
Radio stations
Radio Romania International
Aromanian music
Aromanian Orthodox Church
Aromanian traditional clothing
Avdhela Project
Subgroups of the Aromanians
Organizations
Lunjina Serbian–Aromanian Association
Macedo-Romanian Cultural Society
Panhellenic Federation of Cultural Associations of Vlachs
Society Farsharotu
Union for Aromanian Language and Culture
World Vlach Amphictyony
PopulationGeographicaldistribution
By country
Albania
Bulgaria
Greece
North Macedonia
Romania
Serbia
Diaspora
Settlements
Avdella
Bitola
Constanța
Gramos
Kruševo
Malovište
Metsovo
Moscopole
Peshtera
Samarina
People
Nicolae Constantin Batzaria
Constantin Belimace
Mihail G. Boiagi
Matilda Caragiu Marioțeanu
Alcibiades Diamandi
Pitu Guli
Gheorghe Hagi
Simona Halep
Manaki brothers
Nicolaos Matussis
Gheorghe Constantin Roja
Nushi Tulliu
Constantin Ucuta
Related groups
Romanians
Moldovans
Megleno-Romanians
Istro-Romanians
vteDialects of the Eastern Romance languagesClassical Latin → Vulgar Latin → Common Romanian → Eastern Romance languagesRomaniandialectsNorthern variantsMoldavian
Moldavian
Bukovinian
Transylvanian
Transylvanian
Crișana, divided into several subdialects
Maramureș
Banat
Banat
Boyash
Southern variantsMuntenian
Muntenian
Oltenian
Oltenian
†Dician
†Dician (original Dobrujan dialect)
Romanian-basedargots/speech forms*
Gumuțeasca
Păsăreasca
Totoiana
AromaniandialectsNorthern
Farsherot
Moscopolean
Muzachiar
Gopeš–Malovište
Gorna Belica–Dolna Belica
Southern
Pindean
Gramostean
Olympiot
Megleno-RomaniandialectsNorthern
Northern
Southern
Southern
Istro-RomaniandialectsIn IstriaNorthern
Northern (Žejane)
Southern
Southern (variants between villages)
†In Krk†Krko-Romanian
†Krko-Romanian
* = Not strictly dialects; † = extinct
vte Languages of AlbaniaOfficial language
Albanian (Tosk - Gheg)
Minority languages
Aromanian
Bulgarian
Greek (Himariote)
Macedonian
Romani
Serbo-Croatian
Sign languages
Albanian Sign Language
vteLanguages of BulgariaOfficial language
Bulgarian
Minority languages
Romani
Russian
Serbian
Turkish
Tatar
Sign languages
Bulgarian Sign Language
vte Languages of GreeceOfficial language
Greek
Greek varieties
Cretan
Cappadocian
Pontic
Maniot
Romano-Greek
Tsakonian
Yevanic
Sign languages
Greek Sign Language
Other languages
Aromanian
Arvanitika
Macedonian Slavic
Megleno-Romanian
Pomak Bulgarian
Romani
Balkan Romani
Vlax Romani
Turkish
vte Languages of North MacedoniaOfficial language
Macedonian
Albanian
Minority languages
Aromanian
Bosnian
Megleno-Romanian
Romani
Serbian
Turkish
Sign languages
Macedonian Sign Language
vteLanguages of RomaniaOfficial language
Romanian
Regional or minoritylanguages
Albanian
Armenian
Bulgarian
Croatian
Czech
German
Greek
Hungarian
Italian
Macedonian
Polish
Romani
Russian
Rusyn
Serbian
Slovak
Tatar
Turkish
Ukrainian
Yiddish
Sign languages
Romanian Sign Language
vte Languages of SerbiaOfficial language
Serbian
Minority languages
Albanian
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Croatian
Hungarian
Macedonian
Slovak
Romani
Romanian
Rusyn
Sign languages
Yugoslav Sign Language
vteRomanian languageSubdialects
Wallachia
Oltenia
Dobruja
Moldavia
Bukovina
Republic of Moldova
Banat
Transylvania
Crișana
Maramureș
Argots and speech forms
Gumuțeasca
Păsăreasca
Totoiana
Dialects/related languages
Daco-Romanian (Romanian itself)
Aromanian
Megleno-Romanian
Istro-Romanian
Linguistics
Grammar
nouns
verbs
numbers
Ă
Â
Î
Ș
Ț
Former: D̦
Ŭ
Lexis and vocabulary
longest Romanian word
traditional month names
profanities
Phonology
Diachronic phonology from Latin
Periods of historic evolutionClassical Latin → Vulgar Latin → Common Romanian → Old Romanian → Re-latinization → Modern RomanianWritten form
Modern alphabet
Romanian transitional alphabet
Moldovan Cyrillic alphabet
Romanian Cyrillic alphabet
Romanian Braille
Institutions and movements
Transylvanian School
Junimea
Romanian Academy
Dicționarul explicativ al limbii române
Dicționarul Limbii Române
Dicționar moldovenesc-românesc
Academy of Sciences of Moldova
Language contact
Substrata
Balkan sprachbund
Relationship with Albanian
Slavic superstratum and adstratum
Influence on Slavic languages
Speech communities
Romanians
origin
diaspora
Moldovans
Vlachs
Others
Romanian Language Day
Romanian language in Serbia
Romanian-language schools in Transnistria
 Category
vteRomance languages (classification)Major branches
Eastern
Italo-Western
Italo-Dalmatian
Western
Southern
Eastern
Aromanian
Istro-Romanian
Megleno-Romanian
Romanian
dialects
Banat
Bukovinian
Crișana
Maramureș
Moldavian
Transylvanian
Wallachian
Common Romanian
Italo-DalmatianCentral
Central dialects
Central Marchigiano
Ancona
Fabriano
Macerata
Central−Northern Latian
Romanesco
Sabino
Corsican
Gallurese
Italian
Italo-Australian
Regional Italian
Swiss Italian
Sassarese
Tuscan
Florentine
Southern
Extreme Southern Italian
Central−Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Neapolitan–Calabrese
Neapolitan
Barese
Benevento
Castelmezzano
Cilentan
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Northern Calabrian
Southern Italian Koiné
Others
Dalmatian
Istriot
Judaeo-Italian
WesternGallo-Italic
Emilian-Romagnol
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Gallo-Picene
Ligurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Judeo-Italian
Lombard
Eastern
Bergamasque
Western
Brianzöö
Canzés
Bustocco–Legnanese
Comasco–Lecchese
Comasco
Laghée
Lecchese
Vallassinese
Milanese
Ossolano
Southwestern
Cremunés
Novarese
Pavese
Ticinese
Varesino
Piedmontese
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Gallo-RomanceLanguesd'oïl
Angevin
Berrichon
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
Gallo
French
Jersey
Meridional
North American dialects
Canadian
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay French
Brayon
Newfoundland
Quebec
Joual
Magoua
Franco-Ontarian
Métis
Muskrat
New England
Frenchville
Louisiania
Houma
Missouri French
Creoles
Lorrain
Welche
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Sercquiais
Orléanais
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Faetar
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Moselle Romance
Ibero-Romance(WestIberian)Asturleonese
Asturian
Western Asturian
Cantabrian
Leonese
Mirandese
Galician-Portuguese
Fala
Galician
Galician-Asturian/Eonavian
Minderico
Portugis
Portuguese
dialects
African
Asian
Brazilian
Mineiro
European
Estremenho
Uruguayan
Creoles
Judaeo-Portuguese
Castilian
Amazonic Spanish
Extremaduran
Judaeo-Spanish
Spanish
dialects
Equatoguinean
Latin American
Peruvian
Peruvian Ribereño
Peninsular
Andalusian
Llanito
Castilian
Castrapo
Castúo
Murcian
Philippine
Saharan
Creoles
Old Spanish
Others
Andalusi Romance
Barranquenho (mixed Portuguese–Spanish)
Caló (mixed Romani–Ibero- and Occitano-Romance)
Navarro-Aragonese
Aragonese
Judaeo-Aragonese
Occitano-Romance
Catalan
dialects
Eastern
Algherese
Balearic
Menorcan
Central
Northern
Judaeo-Catalan
Patuet
Western
Catalan Ribagorçan
Valencian
Occitan
Auvergnat
Gascon
Aranese
Béarnese
Landese
Judeo-Gascon
Judeo-Provençal
Languedocien
Limousin
Provençal
Niçard
Vivaro-Alpine
Gardiol
Mentonasc
Old Occitan
Old Catalan
Rhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Fornes
Ladin
Cadorino
Nones
Romansh
Jauer
Putèr
Surmiran
Sursilvan
Vallader
Others
Mediterranean Lingua Franca (Western Romance-based pidgin)
Venetian (unknown further classification)
Chipilo
Fiuman
Talian
Triestine
Others
African Romance
British Latin
Pannonian Romance
Sardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Reconstructed
Proto-Romance
Italics indicate extinct languages
Bold indicates languages with more than 5 million speakers
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control: National 
Germany
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Aromanian_language&oldid=1172192092"
Categories: Aromanian languageLanguages of AlbaniaLanguages of BulgariaLanguages of GreeceLanguages of North MacedoniaLanguages of RomaniaLanguages of SerbiaEndangered Romance languagesDefinitely endangered languagesHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 25Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 Romanian-language sources (ro)CS1 German-language sources (de)CS1 maint: url-statusCS1 French-language sources (fr)CS1 Greek-language sources (el)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataWikipedia pages semi-protected from banned usersLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeArticles containing Aromanian-language textArticles needing additional references from March 2023All articles needing additional referencesArticles needing additional references from July 2022All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2015Articles with GND identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 25 August 2023, at 15:03 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width