Odia language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Charyapada of 8th century and its affinity with Odia
1.2Poet Jayadeva's literary contribution
2Geographical distribution
Toggle Geographical distribution subsection
2.1India
2.2Foreign countries
3Standardization and dialects
Toggle Standardization and dialects subsection
3.1Major varieties or dialects
3.2Major tribal and community dialects/sociolects
4Phonology
5Grammar
6Writing system
Toggle Writing system subsection
6.1Odia Script
7Literature
8Sample text
9Software
10See also
11Notes
12References
13Further reading
14External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Odia language
102 languages
Afrikaansअंगिकाالعربيةঅসমীয়াAsturianuअवधीAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБашҡортсаБеларускаяभोजपुरीBikol CentralБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGalegoગુજરાતી客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HausaՀայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiবিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরীBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡქართულიIkinyarwandaKiswahiliКомиКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuЛезгиLietuviųMagyarमैथिलीMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanଓଡ଼ିଆOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀPangasinanپنجابیPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийसंस्कृतम्ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSimple EnglishسنڌيکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt吴语粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Indic language
Odiaଓଡ଼ିଆThe word "Odia" in Odia scriptPronunciation[oˈɽia] (listeni)Native toIndiaRegionOdisha[a]EthnicityOdiasNative speakers35 million (2011–2019)[1][2]L2 speakers: 4 million[1]Language familyIndo-European
Indo-IranianIndo-AryanEasternOdiaEarly formsPrakrit
Magadhi Prakrit
Odra Prakrit
Old Odia
Dialects
Northern, Central, Southern, Northwestern, Western, Desia, Tribal and Community dialects
Writing systemOdia scriptOdia Braille  Kalinga script (historical)Official statusOfficial language in India
Odisha
Jharkhand[3] (additional)
West Bengal[4][5] (additional)
Regulated byOdisha Sahitya Akademi, Government of Odisha[6]Language codesISO 639-1orISO 639-2oriISO 639-3ori – inclusive codeIndividual codes:ory – Odiaspv – Sambalpuriort – Adivasi Odia (Kotia)dso – Desiya (duplicate of [ort])[7]Glottologmacr1269  Macro-Oriya (Odra)oriy1255  Odia  Odia majority or plurality
  Significant Odia minority
Part of a series on
Constitutionally recognised languages of India
Category
22 Official Languages of the Indian Republic
Assamese
Bengali
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Hindi
Kannada
Kashmiri
Konkani
Maithili
Malayalam
Marathi
Meitei (Manipuri)
Nepali
Odia
Punjabi
Sanskrit
Santali
Sindhi
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Related
Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of India
Official Languages Commission
Classical Languages of India
List of languages by number of native speakers in India
 Asia portal
 India portal
 Language portal
 Politics portal
This article contains Odia text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Odia script.
Odia /əˈdiːə/[8] (ଓଡ଼ିଆ, ISO: Oṛiā, pronounced [oˈɽia] (listeni);[9] formerly rendered as Oriya /ɒˈriːə/) is an Indo-Aryan language spoken in the Indian state of Odisha. It is the official language in Odisha (formerly rendered as Orissa),[10] where native speakers make up 82% of the population,[11] and it is also spoken in parts of West Bengal,[12] Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.[13] Odia is one of the many official languages of India; it is the official language of Odisha and the second official language of Jharkhand.[14][15][16] The language is also spoken by 700,000 people in Chhattisgarh.
Trilingual Signboard at Bhubaneswar Airport having text in Odia, Hindi and English
Odia is the sixth Indian language to be designated a classical language, on the basis of having a long literary history and not having borrowed extensively from other languages.[17][18][19][20] The earliest known inscription in Odia dates back to the 10th century CE.[21]
In the Indian subcontinent, a command over Odia language, alongside Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu, Meitei, Persian, or Arabic, is highly appreciated and respected for learning dances (most significantly Indian Classical Dances) as dancers could have the tools of these languages to go into the primary material texts.[22]
History[edit]
Odia is an Eastern Indo-Aryan language belonging to the Indo-Aryan language family. It descends from Odra Prakrit, which evolved from Magadhi Prakrit,[23] which was spoken in east India over 1,500 years ago, and is the primary language used in early Jain and Buddhist texts.[24] Odia appears to have had relatively little influence from Persian and Arabic, compared to other major Indo-Aryan languages.[25]
The proto-languages of eastern Magadhan; the split and descent of Proto-Odra (Odra Prakrit), the ancestor of the modern Odia language, from Proto-Magadhan (Magadhi Prakrit)[26]
Urajam inscription in Old Odia, royal charter of Eastern Ganga dynasty (1051 CE)[27]
The history of the Odia language is divided into eras:
Proto Odia (Odra Prakrit) (10th century and earlier): Inscriptions from 9th century shows the evolution of proto-Odia, i.e. Odra Prakrit or Oriya Prakrit words used along with Sanskrit. The inscriptions are dated to third quarter of 9th century during the reign of early Eastern Gangas.[28]
Old Odia (10th century till 13th century): Inscriptions from the 10th century onwards provide evidence for the existence of the Old Odia language, with the earliest inscription being the Urajam inscription of the Eastern Gangas written in Old Odia in 1051 CE.[27] Old Odia written in the form of connected lines is found in inscription dated to 1249 CE.[29]
Early Middle Odia (13th century–15th century): The earliest use of prose can be found in the Madala Panji of the Jagannath Temple at Puri, which dates back to the 12th century. Such works as Sisu Beda, Amarakosa, Gorekha Samhita, Kalasa Chautisa and Saptanga are written in this form of Odia.[30][31][32]
Middle Odia (15th century–17th century): Sarala Das writes the Mahabharata and Bilanka Ramayana.[33][34] Towards the 15th century, Panchasakha 'five seer poets' namely Balarama Dasa, Jagannatha Dasa, Achyutananda Dasa, Sisu Ananta Dasa and Jasobanta Dasa wrote a number of popular works, including the Odia Bhagabata, Jagamohana Ramayana, Lakshmi Purana, Haribansa, Gobinda Chandra and more.
Late Middle Odia (17th century–Early 19th century): Usabhilasa of Sisu Sankara Dasa, the Rahasya Manjari of Deba Durlabha Dasa and the Rukmini Bibaha of Kartika Dasa were written. Upendra Bhanja took a leading role in this period with his creations Baidehisa Bilasa, Koti Brahmanda Sundari, Labanyabati which emerged as landmarks in Odia Literature. Dinakrushna Dasa's Rasakallola and Abhimanyu Samanta Singhara's Bidagdha Chintamani were prominent latter kabyas. Of the song poets who spearheaded Odissi music, classical music of the state – Upendra Bhanja, Banamali, Kabisurjya Baladeba Ratha, Gopalakrusna were prominent. Bhima Bhoi emerged towards the end of the 19th century.
Modern Odia (Late 19th century to present): The first Odia magazine, Bodha Dayini was published in Balasore in 1861. During this time many Bengali scholars claimed that Odia was just a dialect of Bengali to  exercise of power by cornering government jobs. [35] For instance Pandit Kanti Chandra Bhattacharya, a teacher of Balasore Zilla School,  published a little pamphlet named 'Odia Ekti Swatantray Bhasha Noi' (Odia not an independent language) where Mr. Bhattacharya claimed that Odia was not a separate and original form of language and was a mere corruption of Bengali. He suggested British Government to abolish all Odia Vernacular Schools from Odisha and to alter into Bengali Vernacular Schools. [36]The first Odia newspaper Utkala Deepika, launched in 1866 under editors Gourishankar Ray and Bichitrananda. In 1869 Bhagavati Charan Das started another newspaper, Utkal Subhakari. More Odia newspapers soon followed like Utkal Patra, Utkal Hiteisini from Cuttack, Utkal Darpan and Sambada Vahika from Balasore and Sambalpur Hiteisini from Deogarh. Fakir Mohan Senapati emerged as a prominent Odia fiction writer of this time and Radhanath Ray as a prominent Odia poet. Other prominent Odia writers who helped promote Odia at this time were Madhusudan Das, Madhusudan Rao, Gangadhar Meher, Chintamani Mohanty, Nanda Kishore Bal, Reba Ray, Gopabandhu Das and Nilakantha Das.
Charyapada of 8th century and its affinity with Odia[edit]
The beginning of Odia poetry coincides with the development of Charya sahitya, the literature started by Vajrayana Buddhist poets such as in the Charyapada. This literature was written in a specific metaphor called twilight language, and prominent poets included Luipa, Tilopa and Kanha. Quite importantly, the ragas that are mentioned for singing the Charyapadas are found abundantly in later Odia literature. The singing of the Charyas, their ragas, as well as later literature are still extant in the tradition of Odissi music.
Poet Jayadeva's literary contribution[edit]
Jayadeva was a Sanskrit poet. He was born in an Utkala Brahmin family of Puri[citation needed] around 1200 CE. He is most known for his composition, the epic poem Gita Govinda, which depicts the divine love of the Hindu deity Krishna and his consort, Radha, and is considered an important text in the Bhakti movement of Hinduism. About the end of the 13th century and the beginning of the 14th, the influence of Jayadeva's literary contribution changed the pattern of versification in Odia.[citation needed]
Geographical distribution[edit]
India[edit]
Odia is mainly spoken in the state of Odisha, but there are significant Odia-speaking populations in the neighbouring states, such as Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh.[37]
Due to the increasing migration of labour, the west Indian state of Gujarat also has a significant population of Odia speakers.[38] Significant numbers of Odia speakers can also be found in the cities of Vishakhapatnam, Hyderabad, Pondicherry, Bangalore, Chennai, Goa, Mumbai, Raipur, Jamshedpur, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, New Delhi, Guwahati, Shillong, Pune, Gurgaon, Jammu and Silvassa.[39] According to the 2011 census, 3.1% of Indians in India are Odia speakers,[40] of which 93% belong to Odisha.
Foreign countries[edit]
The Odia diaspora is sizeable in several countries around the world, bringing the number of Odia speakers worldwide to 50 million.[41][42][page needed][need quotation to verify] It has a significant presence in eastern countries, such as Thailand and Indonesia, mainly brought by the sadhaba, ancient traders from Odisha who carried the language along with the culture during the old-day trading,[43] and in western countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia and England. The language has also spread to Burma, Malaysia, Fiji, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Middle East countries.[42] It is spoken as a native tongue by the Bonaz community in northeastern Bangladesh.
Standardization and dialects[edit]
Major varieties or dialects[edit]
Baleswari (Northern Odia): Spoken in Baleswar, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj and Kendujhar districts of Odisha and southern parts of undivided Midnapore of West Bengal. The variant spoken in Baleswar is called Baleswaria.
Kataki (Central Odia):[44] Spoken in the coastal and central regions consisting of Cuttack, Khordha, Puri, Nayagarh, Jajpur, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Dhenkanal, Angul, Debagarh and parts of Boudh districts of Odisha with regional variations. The Cuttack variant is known as Katakia.
Khurda Odia (standard register): Spoken in Khordha, Puri and Nayagarh districts of Odisha.[45]
Ganjami (Southern Odia): Spoken in Ganjam, Gajapati and parts of Kandhamal districts of Odisha, Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. The variant spoken in Berhampur is also known as Berhampuria.
Sundargadi (Northwestern Odia): Spoken in Sundergarh and parts of adjoining districts of Odisha and the districts of Jashpur of Chhattisgarh and Simdega of Jharkhand.[46][47]
Sambalpuri (Western Odia): It is the western dialect/variety of Odia language with the core variant spoken in Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Bargarh, Balangir and Subarnapur districts, along with parts of Nuapada and western parts of Boudh districts of Odisha. Also spoken in parts of Raigarh, Mahasamund and Raipur districts of Chhattisgarh. A 2006 survey of the varieties spoken in four villages in Western Odisha found out that Sambalpuri share three-quarters of their basic vocabulary with Standard Odia and has 75%–76% lexical similarity with Standard Odia.[48][49][50]
Desia (Southwestern Odia/Koraputi): Spoken in southwestern districts of Nabarangpur, Rayagada, Koraput, Malkangiri and southern parts of Kalahandi districts of Odisha and in the hilly regions of Vishakhapatnam and, Vizianagaram districts of Andhra Pradesh.[51] A variant spoken in Koraput is also known as Koraputia.
Minor regional dialects
Medinipuri Odia (Medinipuria): Spoken in parts of undivided Midnapore district and Kakdwip subdivision (South 24 Parganas) of West Bengal.[52]
Singhbhumi Odia: Spoken in parts of East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan district of Jharkhand.
Phulbani Odia: spoken in Kandhamal and in parts of Boudh district.
Kalahandia Odia: Variant of Odia spoken in Kalahandi and Nuapada districts and neighbouring districts of Chhattisgarh.
Debagadia Odia: Variant of Odia spoken in Debagarh district and the adjoining Rairakhol, Athmallik area. It is known as Debgadia or Deogarhia.
Major tribal and community dialects/sociolects[edit]
Bodo Parja (Jharia): spoken by the Parang Proja tribe of Koraput and neighbouring districts of Odisha.
Bhatri: language variety spoken by the Bhottada tribe in Odisha and Chhattisgarh.[53][54]
Reli: language variety spoken by the Reli people in the Koraput and Rayagada districts of southern Odisha and bordering districts of Andhra Pradesh.
Kupia: language variety spoken by Valmiki people of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, mostly in Koraput, and Visakhapatnam districts.
Minor sociolects
Odia minor dialects include:[55]
Bhuyan: Tribal dialect spoken in Northern Odisha.
Kurmi: Northern Odisha and Southwest Bengal.
Sounti: Spoken in Northern Odisha and Southwest Bengal.
Bathudi: Spoken in Northern Odisha and Southwest Bengal.
Kondhan: Tribal dialect spoken in Western Odisha.
Agharia: Spoken by Agharia community in districts of Western Odisha and Chhattisgarh.
Bhulia: Spoken by Bhulia community in districts of Western Odisha and Chhattisgarh.
Matia: Tribal dialect spoken in Southern Odisha.
Phonology[edit]
Pronunciation of Odia alphabet.
Odia has 30 consonant phonemes, 2 semivowel phonemes and 6 vowel phonemes.
Odia vowel phonemes[56][57]
Front
Central
Back
High
i
u
Mid
e
o
Low
a
ɔ
Length is not contrastive. The vowel [ɛ] can also be heard as an allophone of /e/, or as an allophone of the coalescence of the sequences /j + a/ or /j + ɔ/.[58] Final vowels are pronounced in the standard language, e.g. Odia [pʰulɔ] contrasts Bengali [pʰul] "flower".[59]
Odia consonant phonemes[60][56][58]
Labial
Alveolar/Dental
Retroflex
Post alv./Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɳ
ŋ
Stop/Affricate
voiceless
p
t
ʈ
tʃ
k
voiceless aspirated
pʰ
tʰ
ʈʰ
tʃʰ
kʰ
voiced
b
d
ɖ
dʒ
ɡ
voiced aspirated
bʱ
dʱ
ɖʱ
dʒʱ
ɡʱ
Fricative
s
ɦ
Trill/Flap
r~ɾ
(ɽ, ɽʰ)
Lateral approximant
l
ɭ
Approximant
w
j
Odia retains the voiced retroflex lateral approximant [ɭ],[56] among the Eastern Indo-Aryan languages. The velar nasal [ŋ] is given phonemic status in some analyses, as it also occurs as a terminal sound, e.g. ଏବଂ- ebaṅ /ebɔŋ/[61] Nasals assimilate for place in nasal–stop clusters. /ɖ ɖʱ/ have the near-allophonic intervocalic[62] flaps [ɽ ɽʱ] in intervocalic position and in final position (but not at morpheme boundaries). Stops are sometimes deaspirated between /s/ and a vowel or an open syllable /s/+vowel and a vowel. Some speakers distinguish between single and geminate consonants.[63]
Grammar[edit]
Main article: Odia grammar
Odia retains most of the cases of Sanskrit, though the nominative and vocative have merged (both without a separate marker), as have the accusative and dative. There are three genders (masculine, feminine and neuter) and two grammatical numbers (singular and plural). However, there are no grammatical genders. The usage of gender is semantic, i.e. to differentiate male members of a class from female members.[64] There are three true tenses (present, past and future), others being formed with auxiliaries.
Writing system[edit]
Main articles: Odia alphabet and Odia braille
A detailed chart depicting evolution of the Odia script as displayed in a museum at Ratnagiri, Odisha
The Odia language uses the Odia script (also known as the Kalinga script). It is a Brahmic script used to write primarily the Odia language and others like Sanskrit and several minor regional languages. The script has developed over nearly 1000 years, with the earliest trace of the script being dated to 1051 AD. 
Odia is a syllabic alphabet, or an abugida, wherein all consonants have an inherent vowel. Diacritics (which can appear above, below, before, or after the consonant they belong to) are used to change the form of the inherent vowel. When vowels appear at the beginning of a syllable, they are written as independent letters. Also, when certain consonants occur together, special conjunct symbols are used to combine the essential parts of each consonant symbol.
The curved appearance of the Odia script is a result of the practice of writing on palm leaves, which have a tendency to tear if too many straight lines are used.[65]
Odia Script[edit]
Vowels ସ୍ୱର ବର୍ଣ୍ଣ
ଅ
ଆ
ଇ
ଈ
ଉ
ଊ
ଋ
ୠ
ଌ
ୡ
ଏ
ଐ
ଓ
ଔ
Consonants ବ୍ୟଞ୍ଜନ ବର୍ଣ୍ଣ
କ
ଖ
ଗ
ଘ
ଙ
ଚ
ଛ
ଜ
ଝ
ଞ
ଟ
ଠ
ଡ
ଢ
ଣ
ତ
ଥ
ଦ
ଧ
ନ
ପ
ଫ
ବ
ଭ
ମ
ଯ
ର
ଳ
ୱ
ଶ
ଷ
ସ
ହ
ୟ
ଲ
ଡ଼
ଢ଼
କ୍ଷ
Diacritics
ା
ି
ୀ
ୁ
ୂ
ୃ
ୄ
ୢ
ୣ
େ
ୈ
ୋ
ୌ
Signs, Punctuation
ଂ
ଃ
ଁ
୍
଼
।
॥
ଽ
ଓଁ
୰
Numbers ସଂଖ୍ୟା
୦
୧
୨
୩
୪
୫
୬
୭
୮
୯
Literature[edit]
Main article: Odia literature
The earliest literature in Odia can be traced to the Charyapadas, composed in the 7th to 9th centuries.[66] Before Sarala Das, the most important works in Odia literature are the Shishu Veda, Saptanga, Amara Kosha, Rudrasudhanidhi, Kesaba Koili, Kalasa Chautisa, etc.[30][31][32] In the 14th century, the poet Sarala Das wrote the Sarala Mahabharata, Chandi Purana, and Vilanka Ramayana, in praise of the goddess Durga. Rama-Bibaha, written by Arjuna Dasa, was the first long poem written in the Odia language.
The following era is termed the Panchasakha Age and stretches until the year 1700. Notable religious works of the Panchasakha Age include those of Balarama Dasa, Jagannatha Dasa, Yasovanta, Ananta and Acyutananda. The authors of this period mainly translated, adapted, or imitated Sanskrit literature. Other prominent works of the period include the Usabhilasa of Sisu Sankara Dasa, the Rahasya Manjari of Debadurlabha Dasa and the Rukmini Bibha of Kartika Dasa. A new form of novels in verse evolved during the beginning of the 17th century when Ramachandra Pattanayaka wrote Harabali. Other poets, like Madhusudana, Bhima Dhibara, Sadasiba and Sisu Iswara Dasa composed another form called kavyas (long poems) based on themes from Puranas, with an emphasis on plain, simple language.
However, during the Bhanja Age (also known as the Age of Riti Yuga) beginning with turn of the 18th century, verbally tricky Odia became the order of the day. Verbal jugglery and eroticism characterise the period between 1700 and 1850, particularly in the works of the era's eponymous poet Upendra Bhanja (1670–1720). Bhanja's work inspired many imitators, of which the most notable is Arakshita Das. Family chronicles in prose relating religious festivals and rituals are also characteristic of the period.
The first Odia printing typeset was cast in 1836 by Christian missionaries. Although the handwritten Odia script of the time closely resembled the Bengali and Assamese scripts, the one adopted for the printed typesets was significantly different, leaning more towards the Tamil script and Telugu script. Amos Sutton produced an Oriya Bible (1840), Oriya Dictionary (1841–43) and[67] An Introductory Grammar of Oriya (1844).[68]
Odia has a rich literary heritage dating back to the thirteenth century. Sarala Dasa who lived in the fourteenth century is known as the Vyasa of Odisha. He wrote the Mahabharata into Odia. In fact, the language was initially standardised through a process of translating or transcreating classical Sanskrit texts such as the Mahabharata, Ramayana and the Bhagavad Gita. The translation of the Bhagavatam by Atibadi Jagannatha Dasa was particularly influential on the written form of the language. Another of the Panchasakha, Matta Balarama Dasa transcreated the Ramayana in Odia, titled Jagamohana Ramayana. Odia has had a strong tradition of poetry, especially devotional poetry.
Other eminent Odia poets include Kabi Samrat Upendra Bhanja, Kabisurjya Baladeba Ratha, Banamali Dasa, Dinakrusna Dasa and Gopalakrusna Pattanayaka. Classical Odia literature is inextricably tied to music, and most of it was written for singing, set to traditional Odissi ragas and talas. These compositions form the core of the system of Odissi music, the classical music of the state.
Three great poets and prose writers, Kabibar Radhanath Ray (1849–1908), Fakir Mohan Senapati (1843–1918) and Madhusudan Rao (1853–1912) made Odia their own. They brought in a modern outlook and spirit into Odia literature. Around the same time the modern drama took birth in the works of Rama Sankara Ray beginning with Kanci-Kaveri (1880).
Among the contemporaries of Fakir Mohan, four novelists deserve special mention: Aparna Panda, Mrutyunjay Rath, Ram Chandra Acharya and Brajabandhu Mishra. Aparna Panda's Kalavati and Brajabandhu Mishra's Basanta Malati were both published in 1902, the year in which Chha Mana Atha Guntha came out in the book form. Brajabandhu Mishra's Basanta Malati, which came out from Bamanda, depicts the conflict between a poor but highly educated young man and a wealthy and highly egoistic young woman whose conjugal life is seriously affected by ego clashes. Through a story of union, separation and reunion, the novelist delineates the psychological state of a young woman in separation from her husband and examines the significance of marriage as a social institution in traditional Indian society. Ram Chandra Acharya wrote about seven novels during 1924–1936. All his novels are historical romances based on the historical events in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Odisha. Mrutyunjay Rath's novel, Adbhuta Parinama, published in 1915, centres round a young Hindu who gets converted to Christianity to marry a Christian girl.
One of the great writers in the 20th century was Pandit Krushna Chandra Kar (1907–1995) from Cuttack, who wrote many books for children like Pari Raija, Kuhuka Raija, Panchatantra, Adi Jugara Galpa Mala, etc. He was last felicitated by the Sahitya Academy in 1971–72 for his contributions to Odia literature, development of children's fiction, and biographies.
One of the prominent writers of the 20th and 21st centuries was Muralidhar Mallick (1927–2002). His contribution to Historical novels is beyond words. He was last felicitated by the Sahitya Academy in the year 1998 for his contributions to Odia literature. His son Khagendranath Mallick (born 1951) is also a writer. His contribution towards poetry, criticism, essays, story and novels is commendable. He was the former President of Utkal Kala Parishad and also former President of Odisha Geeti Kabi Samaj. Presently he is a member of the Executive Committee of Utkal Sahitya Samaj. Another illustrious writer of the 20th century was Mr. Chintamani Das. A noted academician, he was written more than 40 books including fiction, short stories, biographies and storybooks for children. Born in 1903 in Sriramachandrapur village under Satyabadi block, Chintamani Das is the only writer who has written biographies on all the five 'Pancha Sakhas' of Satyabadi namely Pandit Gopabandhu Das, Acharya Harihara, Nilakantha Das, Krupasindhu Mishra and Pandit Godabarisha. Having served as the Head of the Odia department of Khallikote College, Berhampur, Chintamani Das was felicitated with the Sahitya Akademi Samman in 1970 for his outstanding contribution to Odia literature in general and Satyabadi Yuga literature in particular. Some of his well-known literary creations are 'Bhala Manisha Hua', 'Manishi Nilakantha', 'Kabi Godabarisha', 'Byasakabi Fakiramohan', 'Usha', 'Barabati'.
20th century writers in Odia include Pallikabi Nanda Kishore Bal, Gangadhar Meher, Chintamani Mahanti and Kuntala Kumari Sabat, besides Niladri Dasa and Gopabandhu Das. The most notable novelists were Umesa Sarakara, Divyasimha Panigrahi, Gopala Chandra Praharaj and Kalindi Charan Panigrahi. Sachi Kanta Rauta Ray is the great introducer of the ultra-modern style in modern Odia poetry. Others who took up this form were Godabarisha Mohapatra, Mayadhar Mansingh, Nityananda Mahapatra and Kunjabihari Dasa. Prabhasa Chandra Satpathi is known for his translations of some western classics apart from Udayanatha Shadangi, Sunanda Kara and Surendranatha Dwivedi. Criticism, essays and history also became major lines of writing in the Odia language. Esteemed writers in this field were Professor Girija Shankar Ray, Pandit Vinayaka Misra, Professor Gauri Kumara Brahma, Jagabandhu Simha and Harekrushna Mahatab. Odia literature mirrors the industrious, peaceful and artistic image of the Odia people who have offered and gifted much to the Indian civilisation in the field of art and literature. Now Writers Manoj Das's creations motivated and inspired people towards a positive lifestyle. Distinguished prose writers of the modern period include Baidyanath Misra, Fakir Mohan Senapati, Madhusudan Das, Godabarisha Mohapatra, Kalindi Charan Panigrahi, Surendra Mohanty, Manoj Das, Kishori Charan Das, Gopinath Mohanty, Rabi Patnaik, Chandrasekhar Rath, Binapani Mohanty, Bhikari Rath, Jagadish Mohanty, Sarojini Sahoo, Yashodhara Mishra, Ramchandra Behera, Padmaja Pal. But it is poetry that makes modern Odia literature a force to reckon with. Poets like Kabibar Radhanath Ray, Sachidananda Routray, Guruprasad Mohanty, Soubhagya Misra, Ramakanta Rath, Sitakanta Mohapatra, Rajendra Kishore Panda, Pratibha Satpathy have made significant contributions towards Indian poetry.
Anita Desai's novella, Translator Translated, from her collection The Art of Disappearance, features a translator of a fictive Odia short story writer. The novella contains a discussion of the perils of translating works composed in regional Indian languages into English.
Four writers in Odia – Gopinath Mohanty, Sachidananda Routray, Sitakant Mahapatra and Pratibha Ray – have been awarded the Jnanpith, an Indian literary award.
Sample text[edit]
The following is a sample text in Odia of Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (ମାନବିକ ଅଧିକାରର ସାର୍ବଜନୀନ ଘୋଷଣା):
Odia in the Odia script
ଅନୁଚ୍ଛେଦ ୧: ସମସ୍ତ ମନୁଷ୍ୟ ଜନ୍ମକାଳରୁ ସ୍ୱାଧୀନ ଏବଂ ମର୍ଯ୍ୟାଦା ଓ ଅଧିକାରରେ ସମାନ । ସେମାନଙ୍କଠାରେ ବୁଦ୍ଧି ଓ ବିବେକ ନିହିତ ଅଛି ଏବଂ ସେମାନଙ୍କୁ ପରସ୍ପର ପ୍ରତି ଭ୍ରାତୃତ୍ୱ ମନୋଭାବରେ ବ୍ୟବହାର କରିବା ଉଚିତ୍ ।
Odia in IAST
Anuccheda eka: Samasta manuṣya janmakāḷaru swādhīna ebaṅ marẏyādā o adhikārare samāna. Semānaṅkaṭhāre buuddhi o bibeka nihita achi ebaṅ semānaṅku paraspara prati bhrātr̥twa manobhābare byabahāra karibā ucit.
Odia in the IPA
ɔnut͡ːʃʰed̪ɔ ekɔ: sɔmɔst̪ɔ mɔnuʂjɔ d͡ʒɔnmɔkaɭɔɾu swad̪ʱinɔ ebɔŋ mɔɾd͡ʒjad̪a o ɔd̪ʱikaɾɔɾe sɔmanɔ. semanɔŋkɔʈʰaɾe bud̪ːʱi o bibekɔ niɦit̪ɔ ɔt͡ʃʰi ebɔŋ semanɔŋku pɔɾɔspɔɾɔ pɾɔt̪i bʱɾat̪ɾut̪wɔ mɔnobʱabɔɾe bjɔbɔɦaɾɔ kɔɾiba ut͡ʃit̪
Gloss
Article 1: All human beings from birth are free and dignity and rights are equal. Their reason and intelligence endowed with and they towards one another in a brotherhood spirit behaviour to do should.
Translation
Article 1: All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Software[edit]
Google introduced the first automated translator for Odia in 2020.[69] Microsoft too incorporated Odia in its automated translator later that year.[70]
See also[edit]
Brahmic scripts
Lakshmi Purana
List of languages by number of native speakers in India
Notes[edit]
^ Parts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh that are near the border with Odisha.
References[edit]
^ a b Odia language at Ethnologue (22nd ed., 2019) 
^ "Scheduled Languages in descending order of speaker's strength – 2011" (PDF). Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India.
^ "Jharkhand gives second language status to Magahi, Angika, Bhojpuri and Maithili". The Avenue Mail. 21 March 2018. Archived from the original on 28 March 2019. Retrieved 30 April 2019.
^ "West Bengal Official Language Act, 1961". www.bareactslive.com. Retrieved 17 September 2020.
^ Roy, Anirban (28 February 2018). "Kamtapuri, Rajbanshi make it to list of official languages in". India Today. Archived from the original on 30 March 2018. Retrieved 30 March 2018.
^ "Odisha Sahitya Academy". Department of Culture, Government of Odisha. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 9 March 2016.
^ Hammarström (2015) Ethnologue 16/17/18th editions: a comprehensive review: online appendices
^ "Odia", Lexico.
^ "PRS | Bill Track | The Constitution (113th Amendment) Bill, 2010". www.prsindia.org. Retrieved 31 January 2018.
^ "Constitution amended: Orissa is Odisha, Oriya is Odia". Hindustan Times. 6 September 2011. Retrieved 31 January 2018.
^ Mahapatra, B. P. (2002). Linguistic Survey of India: Orissa (PDF). Kolkata, India: Language Division, Office of the Registrar General. p. 14. Retrieved 20 February 2014.
^ "Ordeal of Oriya-speaking students in West Bengal to end soon". The Hindu. 21 May 2009. Retrieved 30 January 2019.
^ "Govt to provide study facility to Odia-speaking people in State". The Pioneer. Retrieved 30 January 2019.
^ "Oriya gets its due in neighbouring state- Orissa". IBNLive. 4 September 2011. Archived from the original on 15 August 2012. Retrieved 29 November 2012.
^ Naresh Chandra Pattanayak (1 September 2011). "Oriya second language in Jharkhand". The Times of India. Archived from the original on 7 July 2012.
^ "Bengali, Oriya among 12 dialects as 2nd language in Jharkhand". daily.bhaskar.com. 31 August 2011. Retrieved 29 November 2012.
^ "Classical Language: Odia" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 November 2015. Retrieved 9 December 2018.
^ "Odia gets classical language status". The Hindu. 20 February 2014. Retrieved 20 February 2014.
^ "Odia becomes sixth classical language". The Telegraph. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 29 March 2015.
^ "Milestone for state as Odia gets classical language status". The Times of India. 21 February 2014. Retrieved 29 March 2015.
^ Pattanayak, Debi Prasanna; Prusty, Subrat Kumar. Classical Odia (PDF). Bhubaneswar: KIS Foundation. p. 54. Retrieved 26 July 2016.
^ Munsi, Urmimala Sarkar; Burridge, Stephanie (2012). Traversing Tradition: Celebrating Dance in India. en: Routledge, Taylor & Francis. p. 35. ISBN 978-1-136-70378-2. ... This means a command of Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu, Oriya, Meitei, Persian, or Arabic. ...
^ (Toulmin 2006:306)
^ Misra, Bijoy (11 April 2009). Oriya Language and Literature (PDF) (Lecture). Languages and Literature of India. Harvard University.
^ "Odia Language". Odisha Tourism. Archived from the original on 10 October 2021. Retrieved 8 February 2021.
^ (Toulmin 2006:306)
^ a b Tripathī, Kunjabihari (1962). The Evolution of Oriya Language and Script. Utkal University. p. 29, 222. Retrieved 21 March 2021.
^ (Rajaguru 1966:152)
^ B. P. Mahapatra (1989). Constitutional languages. Presses Université Laval. p. 389. ISBN 978-2-7637-7186-1. Evidence of Old Oriya is found from early inscriptions dating from the 10th century onwards, while the language in the form of connected lines is found only in the inscription dated 1249 A.D.
^ a b Patnaik, Durga (1989). Palm Leaf Etchings of Orissa. New Delhi: Abhinav Publications. p. 11. ISBN 978-8170172482.
^ a b Panda, Shishir (1991). Medieval Orissa: A Socio-economic Study. New Delhi: Mittal Publications. p. 106. ISBN 978-8170992615.
^ a b Patnaik, Nihar (1997). Economic History of Orissa. New Delhi: Indus Publishing. p. 149. ISBN 978-8173870750.
^ Sukhdeva (2002). Living Thoughts of the Ramayana. Jaico Publishing House. p. 7. ISBN 978-81-7992-002-2.
^ Sujit Mukherjee (1998). A Dictionary of Indian Literature: Beginnings-1850. Orient Blackswan. p. 420. ISBN 978-81-250-1453-9.
^ Pritish Acharya, "Nationalistic Politics: Nature, Objectives and Strategy.” From Late 19th Century to Formation of UPCC,” in Culture, Tribal History and Freedom Movement, ed. P.K. Mishra, Delhi: Agam Kala Prakasham, 1989
^ Sachidananda Mohanty, “Rebati and the Woman Question in Odisha,” India International Centre Quarterly, New Delhi, Vol. 21, No.4, Winter 1994
^ James Minahan (2012). Ethnic Groups of South Asia and the Pacific: An Encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. p. 233. ISBN 978-1-59884-659-1.
^ "A Little Orissa in the heart of Surat – Ahmedabad News". The Times of India. 18 May 2003. Retrieved 12 July 2019.
^ Danesh Jain; George Cardona (2007). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Routledge. p. 445. ISBN 978-1-135-79711-9.
^ "Number of Odia speaking people declines: Census report". sambad. sambad. 18 July 2018. Retrieved 24 March 2020.
^ "Oriya language". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2 July 2020. Oriya language, also spelled Odia, Indo-Aryan language with some 50 million speakers.
^ a b Institute of Social Research and Applied Anthropology (2003). Man and Life. Vol. 29. Institute of Social Research and Applied Anthropology. Retrieved 31 July 2012.
^ Subhakanta Behera (2002). Construction of an identity discourse: Oriya literature and the Jagannath cult (1866–1936). Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers. Retrieved 31 July 2012.
^ "Mughalbandi". Glottolog.
^ "LSI Vol-5 part-2". dsal. p. 369, 382.
^ "Northwestern Oriya". Glottolog.
^ "LSI Vol-5 part-2". dsal. p. 403.
^ Mathai & Kelsall 2013, pp. 4–6. The precise figures are 75–76%. This was based on comparisons of 210-item wordlists.
^ "Sambalpuri". Ethnologue.
^ CENSUS OF INDIA 2011. "LANGUAGE" (PDF). Government of India. p. 7.
^ 
CENSUS OF INDIA 2011. "LANGUAGE" (PDF). Government of India. p. 7.
^ "Midnapore Oriya". Glottolog.
^ "Bhatri". Ethnologue. Retrieved 20 August 2021.
^ Masica (1991:16)
^ Rabindra Nath Pati, Jagannatha Dash (2002). Tribal and Indigenous People of India: Problems and Prospects. New Delhi: APH PUBLISHING CORPORATION. pp. 51–59. ISBN 81-7648-322-2.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
^ a b c Ray (2003:526)
^ Cardona, George; Jain, Danesh (2003). The Indo-Aryan Languages. p. 488. ISBN 9781135797119.
^ a b Neukom, Lukas; Patnaik, Manideepa (2003)
^ Ray (2003:488–489)
^ Masica (1991:107)
^ Danesh Jain; George Cardona (2007). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Routledge. p. 490. ISBN 978-1-135-79711-9.
^ Masica (1991:147)
^ Ray (2003:490–491)
^ Jain, D.; Cardona, G. (2007). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Routledge language family series. Taylor & Francis. p. 450. ISBN 978-1-135-79711-9. Retrieved 1 August 2020.
^ Caldwell, R. (1998). A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian Or South-Indian Family of Languages. Asian Educational Services. p. 125. ISBN 978-81-206-0117-8. Retrieved 26 May 2020.
^ Medieval Indian Literature: Surveys and selections. Sahitya Akademi. 1 January 1997. ISBN 9788126003655.
^ Biswamoy Pati Situating social history: Orissa, 1800–1997 p30
^ The Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature (Volume Two) (Devraj To Jyoti): 2 p1030 ed. Amaresh Datta – 2006 "Amos Sutton also prepared a dictionary named Sadhu bhasharthabhidhan, a vocabulary of current Sanskrit terms with Odia definitions which was also printed in Odisha Mission Press in 1844."
^ Statt, Nick (26 February 2020). "Google Translate supports new languages for the first time in four years, including Uyghur". The Verge. Retrieved 27 February 2020.
^ "Odia Language Text Translation is Now Available in Microsoft Translator". Microsoft. 13 August 2020.
Further reading[edit]
Ghosh, A. (2003). An ethnolinguistic profile of Eastern India: a case of South Orissa. Burdwan: Dept. of Bengali (D.S.A.), University of Burdwan.
Masica, Colin (1991). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Cambridge Language Surveys. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-29944-2.
Mathai, Eldose K.; Kelsall, Juliana (2013). Sambalpuri of Orissa, India: A Brief Sociolinguistic Survey (Report). SIL Electronic Survey Reports.
Mohanty, Prasanna Kumar (2007). The History of: History of Oriya Literature (Oriya Sahityara Adya Aitihasika Gana).
Neukom, Lukas; Patnaik, Manideepa (2003). A Grammar of Oriya. Arbeiten des Seminars für Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft der Universität Zürich. Zurich: University of Zurich. ISBN 9783952101094.
"Oriya Language and Literature" (PDF). Odia.org. Retrieved 29 November 2012.
Rabindra Nath Pati, Jagannatha Dash (2002). Tribal and Indigenous People of India: Problems and Prospects. India: APH PUBLISHING CORPORATION. pp. 51–59. ISBN 81-7648-322-2.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)
Rajaguru, Satyanarayan (1966). Inscriptions of Orissa C. 600–1100 A.D. Volume 2. Government of Orissa, Superintendent of Research & Museum.
Ray, Tapas S. (2003). "Oriya". In Cardona, George; Jain, Dhanesh (eds.). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Routledge. pp. 485–522. ISBN 978-0-7007-1130-7.
Toulmin, Mathew W S (2006). Reconstructing linguistic history in a dialect continuum: The Kamta, Rajbanshi, and Northern Deshi Bangla subgroup of Indo-Aryan (Ph.D.). The Australian National University.
Tripathi, Kunjabihari (1962). The Evolution of Oriya Language and Script (PDF). Cuttack: Utkal University. Archived from the original on 10 May 2013.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)
External links[edit]
 Odia  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Odia.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Odia language.
Odia language at Curlie
Odia Wikipedia
Praharaj, G.C. Purnachandra Odia Bhashakosha (Odia-English dictionary). Cuttack: Utkal Sahitya Press, 1931–1940.
A Comprehensive English-Oriya Dictionary (1916–1922)
vteOdia languageLanguage
Grammar
Dialects/VarietiesRegional
Baleswari
Kataki
Ganjami
Sundargadi
Sambalpuri
Desia
Minor
Kalahandia
Phulbani
Singhbhumi
Sociolects
Bodo Parja
Bhatri
Reli
Kupia
Scripts
Odia
Karani
Kalinga
Numerals
Odia Braille
Literature
Literature
Chautisa
Writers
Literary awards
Sahitya Akademi Award
Sahitya Akademi Translation Prize
Yuva Puraskar
Odisha Sahitya Akademi
Odisha Sahitya Akademi Award
Atibadi Jagannath Das Award
Culture
Odissi music
Odia calendar
vteLanguages of IndiaOfficiallanguagesUnion-level
Hindi
English
8th schedule to the Constitution of India
Assamese
Bengali
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Hindi
Kannada
Kashmiri
Konkani
Maithili
Malayalam
Meitei (Manipuri)
Marathi
Nepali
Odia
Punjabi
Sanskrit
Santali
Sindhi
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
State-level only
Angika
Bhojpuri
Chhattisgarhi
Garo
Gurung
Ho
Kamatapuri
Kharia
Khasi
Khortha
Kokborok
Kurmali
Kurukh
Lepcha
Limbu
Magahi
Magar
Mizo
Mundari
Newari
Rai
Rajbangshi
Sadri
Sherpa
Sikkimese
Sunwar
Tamang
MajorunofficiallanguagesOver 1 millionspeakers
Awadhi
Bagheli
Bagri
Bajjika
Bhili
Bundeli
Dhundhari
Garhwali
Gondi
Harauti
Haryanvi
Kangri
Khandeshi
Kumaoni
Lambadi
Malvi
Marwari
Mewari
Nimadi
Rajasthani
Surjapuri
Tulu
Wagdi
Varhadi
100,000 – 1 millionspeakers
Adi
Angami
Ao
Badaga
Dimasa
Halbi
Karbi
Khotta
Kodava
Kolami
Konyak
Korku
Koya
Kui
Kuvi
Ladakhi
Lotha
Malto
Mising
Nishi
Phom
Rabha
Sema
Sora
Tangkhul
Thadou
Linguistic history
Classical
Multilingualism
Endangered
Scheduled languages in states
vteIndo-Aryan languagesDardicKashmiri
Kashmiri
Kishtwari
Shina
Shina
Brokskat
Kundal Shahi
Kalkoti
Ushoji
Palula
Sawi
Pashayi
Pashayi
Kunar
Dameli
Gawar-Bati
Nangalami
Shumashti
Chitral
Kalasha
Khowar
Kohistani
Indus Kohistani
Bateri
Chilisso
Gowro
Kalami
Tirahi
Torwali
Wotapuri-Katarqalai
NorthernEastern
Doteli
Jumli
Nepali
Central
Garhwali
Kumaoni
Western
Dogri
Kangri
Bhadarwahi
Churahi
Bhateali
Bilaspuri
Chambeali
Gaddi
Pangwali
Mandeali
Mahasu Pahari
Jaunsari
Kullui
Pahari Kinnauri
Hinduri
Sirmauri
Sarazi
NorthwesternPunjabiEastern
Punjabi
dialects
Sansi
Lahnda
Hindko
Inku
Khetrani
Pahari-Pothwari
Saraiki
Sindhi
Jadgali
Kholosi
Kutchi
Luwati
Memoni
Sindhi
WesternGujarati
Aer
Gujarati
Jandavra
Koli
Kachi
Parkari
Wadiyara
Lisan ud-Dawat
Parkari Koli
Saurashtra
Vaghri
Rajasthani
Bagri
Goaria
Loarki
Gujari
Dhundari
Harauti
Malvi
Marwari
Mewati
Mewari
Shekhawati
Dhatki
Nimadi
Bhil
Bhili
Bhilali
Chodri
Dhodia-Kukna
Dhanki
Dubli
Bauria
Bhilori
Mawchi
Magari
Palya Bareli
Pauri Bareli
Rathwi Bareli
Pardhi
Gamit
Kalto
Vasavi
Wagdi
Vaagri Booli
Others
Khandeshi
Lambadi
Dawoodi
Domari
Romani
list of languages
CentralWestern
Braj Bhasha
Bundeli
Haryanvi
Hindustani
Kauravi
Hindi
Urdu
Deccani
Judeo-Urdu
Hyderabadi Urdu
Rekhta
Kannauji
Sansi
Sadhukkadi
Eastern
Awadhi
Bagheli
Chhattisgarhi
Fiji Hindi
Others
Parya
EasternBihariBhojpuric
Bhojpuri
Caribbean Hindustani
Magahi
Magahi
Khortha
Maithili
Maithili
Angika
Bajjika
Sadanic
Sadri
Kurmali
Tharuic
Tharu
Kochila
Buksa
Majhi
Musasa
Others
Kumhali
Kuswaric
Bote-Darai
Danwar
Bengali–AssameseBengali
Bengali
dialects
Bishnupriya Manipuri
Hajong
Chittagonian
Chakma
Kharia Thar
Kurmukar
Mal Paharia
Noakhailla
Rohingya
Sylheti
Tanchangya
Kamarupic
Assamese
Kamrupi
Goalpariya
Rajbanshi (Nepal)
Rangpuri
Surjapuri
Odia
Odia
Sambalpuri
Desia
Bhatri
Bodo Parja
Reli
Kupia
Halbic
Halbi
Kamar
Bhunjia
Nahari
SouthernMarathi–KonkaniMarathic
Marathi
Varhadi
Andh
Berar Deccan
Varli
Phudagi
Katkari
Kadodi
Konkanic
Konkani
Maharashtrian Konkani
Canarese Konkani
Insular
Maldivian
Sinhala
Old
Sanskrit
Vedic
Classical
Mitanni superstrate
MiddleEarly
Ashokan Prakrit
Pāli
Early Ardhamagadhi
Middle (Prakrit)
Buddhist Hybrid Sanskrit
Dramatic Prakrits
Ardhamagadhi
Magadhi
Maharashtri
Shauraseni
Gāndhārī
Paishachi
Late (Apabhraṃśa)
Abahattha
Apabhraṃśa
Elu
Kamarupi
Khasa Prakrit
Proto-languages
Proto-Indo-Iranian
Proto-Indo-Aryan
Unclassified
Bazigar
Chinali–Lahul
Chinali
Lahul Lohar
Sheikhgal
Pidginsand creoles
Andaman Creole Hindi
Bombay Hindi
Haflong Hindi
Nagamese
Nefamese
Vedda
See also
Indo-Iranian languages
Nuristani languages
Iranian languages
vte State of OdishaCapital: BhubaneswarState symbols
Emblem: Emblem of Odisha
Song: Bande Utkala Janani
Animal: Sambar
Bird: Indian roller
Flower: Ashoka
Tree: Sacred fig
Fish: Mahanadi mahseer
Governance
Governors
Chief ministers
Legislative Assembly
Constituencies
High Court
Police
Elections
Politics
Human Rights Commission
History
Kalinga
Rulers
Mahameghavahana dynasty
Murunda dynasty
Nala dynasty
Mathara dynasty
Pitrbhakta dynasty
Shailodbhava dynasty
Bhauma-Kara dynasty
Bhanja dynasty
Somavamshi dynasty
Eastern Ganga dynasty
Gajapati Empire
Bhoi dynasty
Orissa Tributary States
Utkal Sammilani
Historic sites
Maritime history of Odisha
Geography
Flora and Fauna
Forests
Utkal Plains
Garhjat Hills
Chilika Lake
Deomali (Highest point)
Abdul Kalam Island
DistrictsbydivisionNorthern
Angul
Balangir
Bargarh
Debagarh
Dhenkanal
Jharsuguda
Kendujhar
Sambalpur
Subarnapur
Sundergarh
Central
Balasore
Bhadrak
Cuttack
Jagatsinghpur
Jajpur
Kendrapara
Khordha
Mayurbhanj
Nayagarh
Puri
Southern
Boudh
Gajapati
Ganjam
Kalahandi
Kandhamal
Koraput
Malkangiri
Nabrangpur
Nuapada
Rayagada
Cities
Angul
Balangir
Balasore
Barbil
Bargarh
Baripada
Bhadrak
Bhawanipatna
Bhubaneswar
Berhampur
Cuttack
Dhenkanal
Jajpur
Jharsuguda
Jeypore
Joda
Kendrapara
Kendujhar
Khordha
Paradeep
Puri
Rourkela
Sambalpur
Talcher
GI products
Berhampur Patta
Bomkai sari
Dhalapathar Parda & Fabrics
Ganjam Kewda Flower
Ganjam Kewda Rooh
Gopalpur Tussar Fabrics
Habaspuri sari
Khandua
Konark stone carving
Kotpad Handloom fabrics
Odisha Ikat
Pattachitra
Pipili appliqué work
Odisha Rasagola
Sambalpuri sari
Topics
Arts
Cinema
Cuisine
Culture
Day
Economy
Education
Festivals
Language
Act
Script
Literature
Grammar
People
Tribes
Sports
Tourism
 India portal
Authority control: National 
Germany
Japan
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Odia_language&oldid=1172323016"
Categories: Odia languageLanguages used in AkashvaniLanguages used in DoordarshanEastern Indo-Aryan languagesIndo-Aryan languagesOfficial languages of IndiaSubject–object–verb languagesClassical Language in IndiaLanguages associated with classical dances of IndiaLanguages of OdishaLanguages of JharkhandLanguages with own distinct writing systemsLanguages used in Press Information Bureau of IndiaLanguages used in Prime Minister's Office of IndiaLanguages used in recruitment of Central Armed Police Forces of IndiaLanguages used in Staff Selection Commission of IndiaLanguages officially written in Indic scriptsLanguages attested from the 3rd century BCMILs in Central Board of Secondary Education of IndiaMILs in Indira Gandhi National Open UniversitySahitya Akademi recognised languagesHidden categories: Pages that use PhonosLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 22CS1 maint: uses authors parameterArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse Indian English from May 2020All Wikipedia articles written in Indian EnglishUse dmy dates from April 2020Articles containing Odia-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeISO language articles citing sources other than EthnologueAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2011Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from March 2018Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from March 2018CS1 maint: unfit URLCommons category link from WikidataArticles with Curlie linksArticles with GND identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles containing video clips
 This page was last edited on 26 August 2023, at 10:39 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width