The bats of Trinidad - Conserving the bats of Trinidad
Home
Book: The Bats of Trinidad and Tobago
About bats
The bats of Trinidad
Vampire bats
Research & Expeditions
Bats in Houses
Bat videos
Links
Meet the Team
Contact us
There are approximately 70 species of bats in Trinidad. They represent 9 families:(Click on the family names for further information)  Phyllostomidae (Leaf nosed bats)this diverse and successful family of bats is named after the leaf shaped appendage on the nose of most bats in this group. They feed on a wide range of fruits, nectar, insects, vertebrates and blood. The most important sub families in this group are the nectar and fruit eating bats which are responsible for pollination and seed dispersal of many tropical plants. Vespertilionidae (Evening bats)these bats are small and insectivorous. They roost in trees, foliage, caves and buildings. They are very successful and widespread and are the largest family of bats in the World.Mormoopidae (Leaf chinned bats)this group of specialised bats consume huge amounts of insects and form dense colonies in caves and trees. Some of these species have enlarged lips and bizarre facial features that help them emit the constant frequency calls that this family produces.Molossidae (Free tailed bats)a long thick tail that protrudes from the tail membrane distinguishes these bats from others in Trinidad. They are fast flying aerial insectivores consuming large beetles, moths and flies. They emit a low frequency ultrasound which can often be heard by the human ear.Emballonuridae (Sac-winged bats)so called due to a sac like structure present on their wings. The sac is used like a scent gland by males to attract females. They can be seen hanging in moderately lit areas and are sometimes seen flying during the day in forested areas. They feed on small insects and have elaborate courtships where males sing to females.Noctilionidae (Fishing bats)these large bats can be seen hunting around harbours, lakes and rivers. There huge feet are used to trawl through the water gaffing any small fish that are present. They roost in trees and caves and also consume insects.Natalidae (Funnel eared bats)one species of this family lives in Trinidad and is distinguished by its large funnel shaped ears and long tail enclosed in a membrane. They roost in caves in large colonies and consume small insects caught during flight.Thyropteridae (Disk winged bats)a very specialised species that has evolved to live inside furled leaves. Due to the smooth texture of the leaf the bats have developed suction pads on their wrists and ankles which enable them to stick to the smooth surface. They are very small and consume small insects.Furipteridae (Thumbless bats)again only one species of this group is found in Trinidad. It's a very rare bat with very little known about it's ecology. It can be identified by a much reduced thumb. It's a very small insect eating bat that typically roosts in foliage and hollow logs in forested areas.
Powered by 
Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started