Northern Cheyenne Tribe Homepage
Home
Executive
Legislative
Judicial
Employment
Northern Cheyenne Tribe
Northern Cheyenne Board of Health
Federal/ Other Jobs
Programs
Tribal Education
Childcare/ WIA
TERO
  NCDC - Solid Waste
Northern Cheyenne Tribal Historic Preservation Office
Contact Us
NCT Policies
   
Public Information and Announcements
Breaking Free from Fort Dependency Registration Form 
Latest News
Proposals / Bids
Links
Check Email
THPO - Request for Consultations
NCT Law and Order Code
Documents
HIP Assistance Application 2022
NCTS Returning Student Application
 NCTS New Student Application
 Northern Cheyenne Head Start 2021 - 2022
 Northern Cheyenne Head Start 2020-2021 Annual Report 
Northern Cheyenne Water Quality Standards June 2022
2023 Holiday List
Procurement and Purchasing Manual
Northern Cheyenne Clean Air Act
Northern Cheyenne Burn Permit Application
Northern Cheyenne Tribe 2016 Season: Hunting, Trapping & Fishing
Hunting, Fishing and Recreation Ordinance
 NC Election Ordinance
Waste Service User Agreement
Tribal Constitution
Tribal Council Agenda Request
Enrollment Application
Request for Address Change Form (update your address for tribal members)
Tribal ID Form
Request for Change on Membership Roll
Revised Solid Waste Code
 
Welcome to the Northern Cheyenne Tribe
 The Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation is located in present-day southeastern Montana, and is approximately 444,000 acres in size with 99% tribal ownership. We have approximately 12,266 enrolled tribal members with about 6,012 residing on the reservation.
 
ECONOMY
Major employers include the local schools, the federal government, tribal government, power companies and construction companies. The education system, farming, ranching and small businesses contribute to the economy.
POINTS OF INTEREST
Chief Two Moons Monument
This historic monument was built in 1936 in memory of Chief Two Moons, who participated in the Battle of the Little Bighorn.
Busby, MT
Chief Dull Knife College
Associate's degrees in the Arts and Sciences are offered, along with vocational programs. The John Woodenlegs Memorial Library is a part of the college. Food service, library and gift shops are open to the public.

Lame Deer, MT
406-477-6215
www.cdkc.edu
St. Labre Indian School and Museum
This school was established in 1884 by the Franciscan Order. The visitor center, Cheyenne Indian Museum and Gift Store are important showplaces of Cheyenne heritage and art.
Ashland, MT
406-784-4500
TRIBAL GOVERNMENT
Constitution and By-Laws of the
  Northern Cheyenne Tribe of the Northern Cheyenne Reservation
  
  The Northern Cheyenne Tribal Council consists of members elected from each of the following districts: Ashland, Birney, Busby, Muddy, and Lame Deer. The President and the members of the Tribal Council serve four year staggered terms.  
 
 
Questions or Comments about this web site contact the Webmaster
    © Copyright 2013 Northern Cheyenne Tribe. All Rights Reserved. 