Ways to give - Wikimedia Foundation
Ways to give
From Donate
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Wikimedia Foundation
Language
                        en
                    
expand
English
Afrikaans
català
čeština
dansk
Deutsch
Ελληνικά
español
français
עברית
magyar
italiano
日本語
latviešu
norsk bokmål
Nederlands
polski
português
português do Brasil
română
русский
slovenčina
svenska
українська
中文（简体）
isiZulu
                    Donate now
                
Ways to give
Contents
1 Online gift
2 Monthly gift
3 Bank transfer
4 Checks & money orders (via mail)
5 Donor Advised Funds
6 Stock donation
7 Endowment gift
7.1 Donate online
7.2 Qualified Charitable Distributions
7.3 Legacy gift
8 Matching gifts
8.1 Volunteer Hour Match
9 Payroll deduction
9.1 Combined Federal Campaign
Thank you for your interest in donating to the Wikimedia Foundation, the nonprofit that hosts Wikipedia and other free knowledge projects.
Online gift
You can give easily and securely online via methods such as credit/debit card, PayPal, Apple Pay, Google Pay, Amazon Pay, online bank transfer and others, depending on your country. Please select your continent followed by your country for payment methods available.
Africa
Algeria
Angola
Burundi
Chad
Egypt
Ghana
Kenya
Liberia
Morocco
Niger
Nigeria
South Africa
Uganda
Asia
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Brunei
Cambodia
China
Hong Kong SAR China
India
Israel
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kuwait
Macao SAR China
Malaysia
Maldives
Mongolia
Nepal
Oman
Pakistan
Philippines
Qatar
Singapore
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
United Arab Emirates
Vietnam
Europe
Albania
Andorra
Austria
Belgium
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Czechia
Denmark
Estonia
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Monaco
Montenegro
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Ukraine
United Kingdom
Vatican City
North America
Aruba
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Canada
Costa Rica
Dominica
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Martinique
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Puerto Rico
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Pierre & Miquelon
St. Vincent & Grenadines
Trinidad & Tobago
Turks & Caicos Islands
United States
South America
Argentina
Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Ecuador
Falkland Islands
French Guiana
Guyana
Paraguay
Peru
Suriname
Uruguay
Venezuela
Oceania
American Samoa
Australia
Cook Islands
Fiji
French Polynesia
Guam
Kiribati
Marshall Islands
Micronesia
Nauru
New Zealand
Palau
Monthly gift
Please click here to make an automatic monthly donation via credit/debit card or PayPal.
A monthly donation will process until you ask us to cancel it. 
If you donate by credit/debit card, in some cases credit card processors will notify us when card details (including expiration date) are updated, to ensure the donation is not interrupted. If you have questions about this, please contact your credit card provider for more information.
Bank transfer
We accept a range of currencies, and Citibank will convert your currency into USD or EUR.
For domestic and international transfers in USD, our deposit-only account is
Bank: Citibank
Address: 590 Market Street, San Francisco, California, 94104 USA
ABA/ACH#: 321171184
Swift Code: CITIUS33
A/C#: 203129580
Phone: 415-982-2960
To donate in £ GBP
Account Number: 18797250
Account Title: WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION INC
Currency: GBP
IBAN: GB33CITI18500818797250
Swift Code: CITIGB2L
Sort Code: 185008
To donate in € EUR
Account Number: 18796270
Account Title: WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION INC
Currency: EUR
IBAN: GB12CITI18500818796270
Swift Code: CITIGB2L
Sort Code: 185008
The € EUR account is SEPA compliant.
Please note we cannot automatically confirm the receipt of bank transfer donations, so please retain a confirmation of the transfer from your bank. If you would like to receive a tax receipt, we advise contacting your bank to create a transfer via Bill Pay (USA), or donating via a different method.
The Foundation does not charge a transfer fee for donations, but your local bank may. We highly recommend checking with your bank before initiating a transfer to make sure you understand any charges that you may incur by making a donation to Wikimedia.
For more information or if you have any question regarding Bank Transfers, please email donate@wikimedia.org
Checks & money orders (via mail)
Donations by check and money order are processed at our lockbox, located at the address below. Please make checks payable to "Wikimedia Foundation, Inc." and  include a letter with your name, mailing address, phone number, email address, and donation amount. Please do not send cash through the mail. Note that we currently cannot accept checks from France, Italy, or Spain.
Please mail your checks or money orders to:
Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
P.O. Box 98204
Washington, DC 20090-8204
USA
For large checks of $10,000 and over, please email benefactors@wikimedia.org to notify us of your incoming donation.
Donor Advised Funds
Donor Advised Funds (DAFs) allow you to combine the most favorable tax benefits with the flexibility to support your preferred causes. If you’d like to recommend a grant to the Wikimedia Foundation directly from your DAF, please see the links below:
DAF Direct (Fidelity Charitable, Greater Kansas City CF, Schwab Charitable)
Vanguard
American Endowment Foundation
Jewish Community Federation & Endowment Fund
Silicon Valley Community Foundation
New York Community Trust
T. Rowe Price Charitable
Franklin Templeton Charitable Giving Fund
Please contact us at benefactors@wikimedia.org if you have questions or if your DAF of choice is not listed.
Stock donation
To move stock from your brokerage to ours, please give the broker our name and account information listed below.
Bank Name
Bank of America
Account Name
Wikimedia Foundation – Gift Account
Account number
16-200-2942639
DTC Number
0955
Tax ID
20-0049703
Broker contact details
If you require any assistance making a stock donation, please contact:
Avi Cohen, Bank of America: avi.cohen@bofa.com
When the transaction is complete, please let us know the stock name and number of shares and we can verify the transaction and issue a thank you letter and tax receipt for your gift. You can do so by emailing benefactors@wikimedia.org. 
Please note it can take up to several weeks for the stock to be credited to our account and for us to receive notice. When we get notice that the stock has been received, we will generate an acknowledgment letter that includes the number of shares, stock name, and the date the stock was received.
Endowment gift
The Wikimedia Endowment is our enduring commitment to a world of freely-shared knowledge, now and in perpetuity. As a fund that is invested for long-term growth, it creates a solid financial foundation for Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects and helps ensure their future. For more information, visit wikimediaendowment.org or email us at endowment@wikimedia.org.
Donate online
Your gift to the Wikimedia Endowment will have a lasting benefit for future generations. You can make a gift today via our online donation form. For information on other ways to give to the Endowment, visit wikimediaendowment.org.
Qualified Charitable Distributions
If you are a U.S. taxpayer aged 70.5 or older and have an Individual Retirement Account (IRA), you are eligible to make a gift via a Qualified Charitable Distribution (QCD), also known as an IRA Charitable Rollover. In order to benefit from the tax advantages of satisfying all or some of your Required Minimum Distribution through a QCD, the gift must be issued directly from your IRA custodian. This free tool from our partners at FreeWill can help you navigate this process. 
The Wikimedia Foundation directs all QCD gifts to the Wikimedia Endowment, where they are invested to ensure the long-term future of Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects. For more information, contact endowment@wikimedia.org.
Legacy gift
You can support the future of free knowledge for generations to come by making a gift in your will or other estate plans. A legacy gift costs you nothing now and can be changed at any time, for any reason. Once realized, your gift will be added to the Wikimedia Endowment, where your legacy will live on by providing support to Wikimedia projects in perpetuity. 
Legacy gifts are exempt from U.S. federal estate taxes. Make a legacy gift online at no cost using FreeWill (in the U.S.) or by including the following sample language in your will: 
I give, devise, and bequeath [the sum of _____ USD (or other currency) OR _____ percent of the rest and residue of my estate] to the Wikimedia Endowment (tax identification number 87-3024488), a charitable corporation currently located at 1 Montgomery Street, Suite 1600, San Francisco, California, United States, to be used for its general charitable purposes at its discretion.
For more information about legacy giving, visit wikimediaendowment.org or contact legacy@wikimedia.org.
Matching gifts
Matching Gifts are a great, easy way to double or even triple your donation to the Wikimedia Foundation.
Click here to see if your employer will match your gift to the Wikimedia Foundation. Matching gift information provided by HEPdata.
If you have questions regarding your employer's matching gift, please email matching@wikimedia.org.
To nominate or register the foundation to receive matching gifts, please provide the following contact information:
Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
P.O. Box 98204
Washington, DC 20090-8204
USA
Email: matching@wikimedia.org
Volunteer Hour Match
Many companies will match an employee's time spent volunteering (this includes tasks like editing Wikipedia or its sister sites, patrolling Wiki pages for vandals, and contributing to the MediaWiki software) with a financial gift to the nonprofit. Learn more about the Volunteer Hour Match program.
If you have questions regarding the Volunteer Hour Match program, please email matching@wikimedia.org
Payroll deduction
Some employers in the United States and Canada offer an easy and convenient way to give to the Wikimedia Foundation through a payroll deduction. Please check with your organization for availability and send any necessary paperwork to:
Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
P.O. Box 98204
Washington, DC 20090-8204
USA
Combined Federal Campaign
Many federal and state employees choose to give to the Wikimedia Foundation via the Combined Federal Campaign (CFC), a workplace giving program. If you would like to give the Wikimedia Foundation as part of the Educate America! CFC, please reach out to your human resources department for instructions to give.
Our CFC number is 61478.
For questions, please contact donate@wikimedia.org.
The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia, the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects, and our mission of free knowledge for every single person.
            
Edit this page · Edit template · Edit footer template · Support pages index
Retrieved from "https://donate.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ways_to_Give&oldid=38312"
Categories: EnglishWays to Give
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishLog in
Namespaces
PageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadView sourceView history
More
Search
Navigation
Support pages indexOther ways to giveProblems donatingCancel or change recurring givingMatching Gifts
Wiki
Recent changesDocumentation (collab)
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this page
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
 This page was last edited on 4 May 2023, at 12:41.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Privacy policy
About Donate
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement