Meet the Perens | Akash Singh
16 captures
06 Nov 2013 - 07 Apr 2022
Oct
NOV
Dec
06
2012
2013
2014
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20131106193215/http://akashsingh.ulitzer.com/node/32606
Advertise
|
Contact
|
About
Welcome!
Register | Sign-in 
akashsingh.ulitzer.com
Home
Topics
Authors
Members
Write an Article
Search 
    
Akash Singh
Subscribe to Akash Singh:
            Email Alerts
      Get Akash Singh: Homepage
Mobile
RSS
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Article
Meet the Perens
Joe Barr catches up with former HP Linux strategist Bruce Perens
By Joe Barr
Article Rating:
Select ratingGive it 1/5Give it 2/5Give it 3/5Give it 4/5Give it 5/5
January 13, 2003 12:00 AM EST
Reads:
22,885
Related
Print
Email
Feedback
Add This
Blog This
(LinuxWorld) — If you've kept one eye open watching industry news the past week or two, you've seen the stories about Bruce Perens and his open-source licensed book series with Prentice Hall. I'll get in a few words on that book series later in the column, but first I'll try to put things in context.Bruce Perens is a fascinating individual, and he probably knows his way around the suit side of the house better than any other leading figure in the free/open-source software movements. I had the chance to visit with Perens for nearly an hour last week. I couldn't help but get off-topic. In addition to the books, I was supposed to be talking to him about his consulting work, grants and donations — you know, the things he has been doing to try to keep food on the table since his departure from HP.However, as I mentioned, Perens is very interesting. The more I asked him, the more I wanted to hear his thoughts on other things. If he hadn't had to keep an appointment with the New York Times a half-hour after our interview was supposed to end, I might still be asking him questions.Choosing his departure from HP last fall as the starting point, I asked Perens if he had any regrets about his HP experience. He said, "My two years at HP was just a great time, overall. My only regret is that it couldn't go on longer." Later, he added: "One of the very nice things about the HP position was that they gave me a reasonably nice salary and pretty much let me do what I felt like. It's harder now in that I have to go out there and sell my own services." Perens has a wife (Valerie) and a son (Stanley) to feed as well as himself. As many of you are intimately aware, the current economy doesn't make this the most affluent of times.His consulting company is just getting off the ground. His clients (they must remain anonymous for the moment) are companies and industry organizations that want to get more involved with free/open-source software. His experience at HP, where he pretty much wrote the book on corporate guidance in this strange new world, can be translated easily for other environments. Perens invites all such firms who "don't want to fall into the pitfalls that might be obvious to us but not to them" or who might need assistance to successfully "negotiate all of this licensing quagmire" to contact him.Perens is also working with the Cyber Security Policy Institute at George Washington University. I had to ask exactly what the Institute was all about. "The Cyber Security Policy Institute just does grant-based work and comments on government software security policies," Perens explained.Why is that important? So that free/open source software isn't trapped by a Hollings-type bill requiring the use of Palladium in all government computers, for one. Such an eventuality would be a very bad thing for the free/open-source communities. Microsoft, of course, is adamant about the use of free/open-source software in government: they feel it shouldn't be allowed.
 Microsoft and the Mitre Report
An example in near real-time: the Mitre Report (See Resources for a link to this 60-page report in PDF format). Perens told me "Microsoft got extremely upset about this report and actually caused the report to be held back for six months. It was very interesting. Microsoft actually had so many criticisms of the Mitre Report that their general counsel is now given first credit in the attributions of the report because he contributed so much text."
However, Microsoft could not change the report's conclusion: removing free/open-source software would be very detrimental to the Department of Defense. The study, by the way, was conducted at the request of DISA, the DOD's IT folk. Its genesis was concern over proprietary licenses, which might ban the use of free/open-source software at the DOD. The study not only found widespread usage (more than a hundred free/open-source projects) in the DOD, it also reached the following conclusion:The main conclusion of the analysis was that FOSS [free and open-source software] plays a more critical role in the DoD than has generally been recognized. FOSS applications are most important in four broad areas: Infrastructure Support, Software Development, Security, and Research...Taken together, these factors imply that banning FOSS would have immediate, broad, and strongly negative impacts on the ability of many sensitive and security-focused DoD groups to defend against cyber attacks.Perens, by the way, is at work on a response to heavy criticism of FOSS by Microsoft's Software Choice campaign, which is desperately trying to persuade the unwary that freedom is a bad thing, at least when it comes to software.The Cyber Security Policy Institute will give Perens an opportunity to earn money by writing grants and doing the grant work, but it has its limits. For one thing, because George Washington University is a 501(C)3 organization, it cannot engage in lobbying. That's where the Global Policy Institute comes in. It allows Perens to engage in that activity. The Global Policy Institute Web site also provides a vehicle for the community to help support Perens in his efforts through PayPal. Perens says this money doesn't go into his pocket, it just helps pay for travel expenses. He does travel a bit. Very recently, he went to Denmark, Belgium, Norway and Boston on a single trip to speak to various groups about open source.Now, about those books. The Bruce Perens series published by Prentice Hall is already at Barnes and Noble. At least the first two titles are; the third will be there in March. The series is the first of its kind to be covered by an open license (it's not the first book to have an open license, but it's the first series)."These are print books," Perens said. "Everything is treated exactly like any other print book at Prentice Hall. We pay people the same, we wholesale them the same, all the way through." A few months after publication, however, the books go online in an open-source manner. "We don't think that most people read their books on the screen, so we don't see that as a tremendous revenue drain," Perens noted.What's needed for the series? Just about anything to do with free/open-source software. If you want to write a title in the series, just send Perens an e-mail at bruce@perens.com. Perens asks that you include a writing sample and a book proposal with an outline, if possible. The main thing is not to just sit on top of a good idea.The hour passed too quickly. The conversation had wandered to such diverse topics as how a hot-headed journalist like myself (Perens, apparently straight-faced: "Oh, why would you say that, Joe?") could attract lobbyists like Perens to work their magic on the Texas state legislature, fraudulent practices by the Business Software Alliance, the debate over the use of a proprietary tool in Linux kernel development, who will be the first tier-one OEM to offer Linux desktop preloads in the US, and a final timely and incendiary topic: TCO studies. Those random subjects don't fit neatly into the category of "What is Perens up to now?" They do make for a great column all by themselves. That's what we'll be serving next week in the second half of this Perens extravaganza.                
                  Published January 13, 2003                                    – Reads 22,885                                    
                  Copyright © 2003 Ulitzer, Inc. — All Rights Reserved.
                  
                  Syndicated stories and blog feeds, all rights reserved by the author.
                
Related
Print
Email
Feedback
Add This
Blog This
Related Stories
What's new with HP's open source efforts
Cooltown tour shows HP's commitment to Linux
Industry leaders react to kernel 2.4
*SPECIAL Linux.SYS-CON.com ANALYSIS* Bruce Perens White Paper on UserLinux 
Related Links
The Linux Development Platform: Configuring, Using and Maintaini
Embedded Software Development with eCos
Intrusion Detection with SNORT
Bruce's son
Global Policy Institute
Cyber Security Policy Institute
Mitre Report
How to copyright your software and choose a license
Bruce Perens, the original upstart 
More Stories By Joe Barr
Joe Barr is a freelance journalist covering Linux, open source and network security. His 'Version Control' column has been a regular feature of Linux.SYS-CON.com since its inception. As far as we know, he is the only living journalist whose works have appeared both in phrack, the legendary underground zine, and IBM Personal Systems Magazine.
Comments (0) 
Share your thoughts on this story.
Add your comment
You must be signed in to add a comment.
                              Sign-in | Register 
In accordance with our Comment Policy, we encourage comments that are on topic, relevant and to-the-point. We will remove comments that include profanity, personal attacks, racial slurs, threats of violence, or other inappropriate material that violates our Terms and Conditions, and will block users who make repeated violations. We ask all readers to expect diversity of opinion and to treat one another with dignity and respect.
Please wait while we process your request...
Your feedback has been submitted for approval.
All Time
Multihop Wirelesss Networks
CommentsNew Release of Quest Toad for Oracle Offers Enhancements to Reduce Risk By Liz McMillanyourfanat wrote: I am using another tool for Oracle developers - dbForge Studio for Oracle. This IDE has lots of usefull features, among them: oracle designer, code competion and formatter, query builder, debugger, profiler, erxport/import, reports and many others. The latest version supports Oracle 12C. More information here.Oct. 22, 2013 02:57 AM EDTread more & respond »
Latest Articles
Latest Blogs
Latest News
Multihop Wirelesss Networks
More Articles...
    Top Stories  
Cloud Computing
Computers and Software
Cisco Pioneers Real-Time Application Delivery in Global Data Centers and Clouds to Enable Greater Business Agility 
Global Enterprise Mobility Industry
Kronos Announces Exceptional Fiscal 2013 Financial Performance; Kronos Cloud Propelling Growth
IBM Recognizes Perficient for Worldwide Business Analytics, Performance Management and ECM Capabilities
Technology Leaders Rally Behind Cisco's Application Centric Infrastructure 
CIO/CTO Update
Computers and Software
Research and Markets: Global x86 Server Virtualization Infrastructure Market - 2013 Report
Research and Markets: Global Data Center Market to 2016: Cisco, Dell, EMC, IBM, HP & NetApp Dominate the Industry
Newsbyte: SAP® Business All-in-One Solutions Powered by SAP HANA® Now Globally Available in 52 Countries and for Key Industries
Open Mobile Alliance and OpenSocial Collaborate to Deliver Social Web Specifications 
Research and Markets: Global Application Delivery Network (ADN) Market to 2018: Controllers, ADCs, WOCs, Secure Access Gateways & Security
Java in the Cloud
Computers and Software
Hostway Launches Next Generation FlexCloud Server; First Public Cloud Platform on Windows Server 2012 R2
Fortune 50 Organizations Quickly Turn to Sonatype to Address a Global Software Security Threat 
CUSTOMER WIN: Avis Budget Group in EMEA Selects the Appcelerator Platform to Enable Mobile First Transformation 
Research and Markets: Global System Infrastructure Software 2012-2016: Market Size and CAGR
Birst Helps Subscription-Based Businesses Multiply Their Revenue With New Recurring Revenue Solution Accelerator 
Ajay Budhraja Cloud Big Data
Computers and Software
Gainsight Unlocks Power of Customer Data in the $500 Billion Subscription Economy 
Research and Markets: Global Big Data Market to 2018: Software/Hardware Analysis
Nils Puhlmann, Former Zynga Chief Security Officer and Co-Founder of Cloud Security Alliance, Joins Endgame as Chief Technology Officer
LiveOps Names Karl Gustafson SVP of Sales To Expand Agent Services
IDC Financial Insights, American Banker, and Bank Technology News Announce the 2013 FinTech Enterprise 25 Technology Companies
Televation
Telecom
Research and Markets: Worldwide Complex Event Processing (CEP) Market to 2018
Research and Markets: Global In-Memory Computing (IMC) Market to 2018: IMDB, IMDG, IMAP
Platform Technology, Sri Lanka's Newest Web Development Company, Opens for Business
Toshiba's Call Manager Mobile Optimized for Apple iOS 7, Now Available at Apple App Store 
Actuate Launches BIRT iHub™ 3: New Generation of Design and Deployment Productivity for Developers and OEMs who Deliver Personalized Insights to Customers, Partners and Employees
Microsoft Developer
Computers and Software
Gridstore 3.0 Software-Defined Storage Solution Now in General Availability 
Virtustream Expands Presence in Growing Big Data Market with Cognilytics Partnership
NineMSN Adopts Brightcove Video Cloud to Deliver Premium Video Experiences Across the Web, Smartphones and Tablets
Research and Markets: Global Cloud Computing Market In Healthcare Industry Report 2013 - 2018
Research and Markets: Global Software Configuration Management Market 2012-2016: Drivers, Challenges, Trends
Tech CEOs
Computers and Software
XL Marketing Corp., a leading Big Data-Driven Marketing & CRM company, announces the acquisition of Adchemy Actions Division of Adchemy, Inc.
Full Support for Global Clusters Now Available in OpenStack Object Storage
Spanning Cloud Apps Announces New CEO
NuoDB To Demonstrate Geo-Distribution At Amazon's AWS: re:Invent Conference
Gravitant Announces New Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales
Twitter
Media and Entertainment
Infinite Peripherals Introduces Infinea Tab® M, the First Mobile POS Device Compatible with the Apple® iPad® mini
Exclusive Press Briefing at ad:tech New York Breaks News in Digital Marketing Field
NexJ Selected to Support Canaccord Genuity's Global Platform
Prolexic Releases New Infographic Explaining DDoS Attack and Defense Strategies
Global Mobile Value Added Services (MVAS) Industry
Facebook
Media and Entertainment
Hong Kong Housing Society Reduces Time Required to Manage Housing Contracts and Process Payments With Oracle Fusion Middleware Solutions 
Latest NuGuard KX Cases from NewerTech Offer Ultimate Protection for New Apple iPad Air and iPad Mini with Retina Display
Aerohive Receives Awards Recognizing Revenue Growth and Next Generation Enterprise Networking Solutions
PLAYSTUDIOS Launches myVEGAS Slots for iOS and Android, Expands Real-World Rewards Program
Vonage Holdings Corp. Reports Third Quarter 2013 Results
Cloudonomics
Computers and Software
Rolta's Promoters Increase Holding to Over 50%
Research and Markets: Global Software Testing System Integrator Market - 2013 Report
Rolta's Promoters Increase Holding to Over 50%
Huawei Reinforces Commitment to Open Source Projects and Contribution to the Acceleration of OpenStack Commercialization
Document Security Systems Announces Partnership with Conde Nast Publication, Brides Magazine
Las Vegas
Lifestyle and Leisure
PBS Holdings, Inc. Defines The Trifecta Initiative 
Multi-Platinum Rock Band Fall Out Boy And Teen Pop Star Austin Mahone To Perform Live At Fifth Annual TeenNick HALO Awards, Sunday, Nov. 17, At 8 P.M. (ET/PT)
Eastwick Adds Veteran Journalist Mark Veverka to Lead Content Marketing Group 
Samba TV Adds Smart TV Apps to Sony Connected Devices, Bringing Popular Content to Millions 
i.TV Acquires GetGlue
It's All About Engaging
Media and Entertainment
Global Automatic Number Plate Recognition Systems Industry
Juneau Biosciences Names Dr. Dinesh Patel to Board of Directors
Must-attend Events At MAPIC
TEAM Informatics, Inc. Announces the Content Management Product - Bulk Loader for Oracle WebCenter
Internap and Aerospike Announce Integrated Solution for Accelerated Big Data Performance
SaaS
Computers and Software
Paessler, LANAIR Group Partner to Launch ControlPoint Monitor for Hosted Network Monitoring
Verify Platform Gives Automakers and Parts Suppliers Greater Protection Against Counterfeits
Visual IQ’s Madan Bharadwaj to Explore Marketing Attribution at Digital Analytics Association San Francisco Symposium
Gainsight Raises $20 Million to Eradicate Churn in the Subscription Economy 
Box Gathers Cloud Leaders for Business Without Boundaries Event in London
Government
Government
Donna K. Lencki of Capital BlueCross to serve as panelist, will challenge payers at The 2013 DiabetesMine™ Innovation Summit
IT Spending Expected to Accelerate Next Year, After Emerging Markets Slowdown in 2013
techUK Launches and Announces New Target to Create over 500,000 Tech Sector Jobs by 2020
General Cable publie ses résultats estimatifs pour le troisième trimestre ; ses résultats d'exploitation ajustés estimatifs du troisième trimestre reflètent la stabilité continue en Europe et dans le reste du monde ; ...
PressReader to Host More Than 50 Popular Magazines From Singapore Press Holdings on its Multi-Channel Digital Network
Mergers & Acquisitions
Financial Services
Research and Markets: Global Healthcare IT Market to 2016: McKesson, Dell, CareFusion & Philips Healthcare Dominate the Industry
Transworld Business Advisors Signs Master License Agreement for Singapore
Global Predictive Diagnostics Industry
Galaxy Technologies Announces Boyington as New President and Chief Executive Officer
ZL Technologies Positioned as Leader in Gartner Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Information Archiving 
SEO
Professional Services
MRV Unveils Next-Generation Optical Transport Product Family
codeREADr App Launches Regex Technology for Authenticating Ticket, Offer and Voucher IDs Issued in Real-Time to Today's Mobile Consumer 
DudaMobile Gives Back with Launch of Non-Profit Program
Puppet Enterprise Achieves Certification for Red Hat Enterprise Linux OpenStack Platform 
ValueClick Retains Edelman as Public Relations Agency of Record
Datacenter Automation
Computers and Software
American Portwell Inks Global Distribution Agreement with Digi-Key
MaintenanceNet Honored for Enabling Sales Channels in ITSMA's 2013 Marketing Excellence Awards 
EiQ Networks Offers to Help Organizations Assess Cyber Defense Readiness at No Cost
Life-Size Version of Einstein Brain Atlas App on Display at Neuroscience 2013 
Honeywell To Present At Goldman Sachs Industrials Conference
Sarbanes Oxley
Computers and Software
Cloud Security Solutions That Avoid Health IT Breaches
Morning Research: The Procter & Gamble Co., Colgate-Palmolive Co., Avon Products Inc., and The Estee Lauder Cos Inc.
Under AAAResearchReports.com Microscope: Unitedhealth Group Inc., WellPoint Inc., Aetna Inc., and Humana Inc.
Trading Technologies and Ullink to Provide an Integrated Execution Management System and Order Management System (EMS/OMS) Solution
TRADE NEWS: Agilent Technologies’ Conformance Test System Enables Certification of First Chinese NFC Controller Chipset
Market Research
Professional Services
Infonetics: Vendor Consolidation Continues in Mobile M2M Module Market amidst Challenging Environment
Research and Markets: Learning Management Systems (LMS) Market by Products & Users Research Report
Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) Market in the US 2014-2018
Research and Markets: Global Set Top Box Market 2014-2018: One of the Major Drivers in this Market is the Increasing Adoption of HD STB
Research and Markets: Mobile Value Added Services Market in India 2014-2018: The Government is Planning to Offer M-Governance Services to More Than 700 Aadhaar Card Holders by the End of 2014
Mac
Computers and Software
Chrysler Customers Purchasing Any 2014 Model Year Vehicle to Get Every Available Premium Satellite Radio Channel, Plus SiriusXM Internet Radio
Sabre Launches Mobile Tablet App for Travel Agents
Introducing the All-New DiabetesForecast.org 
Unisys Cloud-Based Managed Mobility Services Help CIOs Rein in "BYOD Sprawl"
Make Epic Holiday Memories with these 4 EPIC Vodka Recipes
IBM Journal
Computers and Software
Dr. James W. Owens, Former CEO & Chairman Of Caterpillar Inc., Receives Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity's Highest Award
Smart Pills Technologies Market (2012-2017) (Diagnostic imaging, patient monitoring, drug delivery)
Smart Pills Technologies Market (2012-2017) (Diagnostic imaging, patient monitoring, drug delivery)
Skytap Launches Development and Test Environments on Amazon Web Services 
Research and Markets: 2013 Report on the Cloud Analytics Market - with Forecast to 2018
Ajay Budhraja Big Data Cloud
Computers and Software
UNC and SAS Join Forces to Personalize Health Care for Better Outcomes
Neue Studie von Evolv enthüllt Eigenschaften von effektiven Managern und Saisonarbeitern
2013 FinTech 100 Rankings Released By IDC Financial Insights, American Banker, and Bank Technology News
GE Invests in the Future with Controls Convergence Strategy
SysFera to Showcase Strength in HPC Management and Remote Visualization at Supercomputing Conference 13
Oracle
Computers and Software
Hitachi Communication Technologies America, Inc. and Tendril Extend Partnership to Improve Home Energy Management 
Avecto Enables “Build Your Own” Desktop Environment for University of Dundee
Global Superstar Miley Cyrus To Launch BANGERZ TOUR On Valentines Day 2014
Mobile Health News Weekly – Week of November 3, 2013
The Radicati Group Releases "Messaging Platforms for Service Providers - Market Quadrant, 2013" 
For SAP professionals
Computers and Software
Box Gathers Cloud Leaders for Business Without Boundaries Event in London 
Ceridian, SAP, Citrix to Present at the 2014 Summit on Customer Engagement
Social Technology Proves Integral in Building a Culture of Communication and Collaboration
MolecularHealth Sponsors Harvard Personalized Medicine Conference
OpenText to Unveil Project Red Oxygen at Enterprise World 2013
ipad
Electronics and Semiconductors
Jumio Unveils Faster Credit Card Scanning Technology With Netswipe 2.0 
Flexible Display Market: Global Analysis & Forecast (2012 - 2017) - By Application, Technology, Components & Geography
72% of Employees Stuck with Unauthorized File Sharing Services
Gogo Partners with Glympse Inc. to Allow Airline Passengers to Share their Location in the Sky
GlassesOff Announces Appointment of Sasson Darwish as Vice Chairman of Its Board of Directors
BuyerSteps
Computers and Software
Paxeramed debuts industry's first social-media medical images sharing module
People en Espanol Wins Gold for the Hispanic Market
CA Technologies Names Adam Famularo as Head of Partner Sales for North America
The California Endowment Announces Cristina Saralegui, Veteran Journalist And Beloved TV Personality, As A Spokesperson For The Get Covered Campaign
Bonfyre Sees $1.7m Round of Funding Led By International Marketing Agency MKTG INC
Infrastructure 2.0
Computers and Software
What Is Application-Centric Infrastructure?
Options Bolsters Midwest Sales Team, Names Former NYSE Euronext Executive Roark Siko VP of Sales
Global Water Analysis Instrumentation Industry
Zacks Industry Outlook Highlights: Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal, ArcelorMittal, POSCO and ThyssenKrupp
Service-Flow Slashes Application Development Time In Half And Delivers Upgrades Continuously With CloudBees Platform
android
Computers and Software
MobileSpaces Makes the 2013 AlwaysOn OnMobile Companies to Watch List
Vivante Vega IP Enables Full GPU Hardware Virtualization on Mobile and Home Entertainment Devices
Scivantage Named to the FinTech 100 Ranking of the World’s Top Financial Services Technology Providers
AT&T 4G LTE Available In Gettysburg
New Upgrade to Nuance Swype Makes It Even More Powerful and Personal
Open Source Journal
Computers and Software
Huawei renforce son engagement en matière de projets open-source et de contribution à l'accélération de la commercialisation d'OpenStack
Actuate Launches BIRT iHub 3: New Generation of IT Administration with Unprecedented Control for All BI Projects Throughout the Organization
New Joomla! 3.2 Adds Record Number of New Features and Improvements to Popular CMS 
Spirent and Luxoft Introduce Industry’s First Open and Extensible OpenFlow Compliance Testing Solution
WhiteHat Security Expands Code Analysis Language Support
Cisco Virtualization Journal
Computers and Software
National High School Cybersecurity Competition Draws More Than 1,500 Teams, Reaches All 50 States
Global Content Delivery Networks (CDN) Market - Trends, Geographical Analysis & Worldwide Market Forecasts (2012 - 2017)
Acquisitions, Project Announcements & Trend Analysis News for Oxygen Biotherapeutics, Glu Mobile, Cisco Systems, Barrick Gold, CVS Caremark
Global Content Delivery Networks (CDN) Market - Trends, Geographical Analysis & Worldwide Market Forecasts (2012 - 2017)
Research and Markets: 2013 Report on the Worldwide In-Room Entertainment Market
Cloud Expo 
Home
Register
Keynotes
Speakers
Sessions
Schedule
Exhibitors
Sponorship Info 
Conference Info 
Hotel Info 
Press Registration 
Call For Papers 
Media Sponsors 
Advisory Board 
Volunteers
Is Your Business 100% Ready for the
New Era of Cloud Computing and
Big Data? The Only Enterprise IT Event in 2013 Covering
the Entire Scope of both Cloud & Big Data
 
                      
                      
                      
                      Come to Silicon Valley and get yourself up to date with the Big Data revolution! As advanced data storage, access and analytics technologies aimed at handling high-volume and/or fast moving data all move center stage, aided by the Cloud Computing boom, Cloud Expo is the single most effective event for you to learn how to use you own enterprise data – processed in the Cloud – most effectively to drive value for your business.
There is little doubt that Big Data solutions will have an increasing role in the Enterprise IT mainstream over time. Get a jump on that rapidly evolving trend at Big Data Expo, which we are introducing in November at Cloud Expo Silicon Valley.
                 
"Cloud" has become synonymous with "computing" and "software" in two short years. Cloud Expo is the new PC Expo, Comdex, and InternetWorld of our decade. By 2012, more than 50,000 delegates per year will participate in Cloud Expo worldwide. 
                      The cloud is certainly a compelling alternative to running all applications within a traditional corporate data center. But moving from theory into practice is where things get complicated, and this is where attending a top industry event like Cloud Expo comes in.
                      No one can take full advantage of cloud computing without first becoming familiar with the latest issues and trends, which is why the organizing principle of the 10th International Cloud  Expo on November 4-7, 2013 - is to ensure - through an intensive four-day schedule of keynotes, general and breakout sessions, and our bustling Expo Floor - that attending delegates leave the Santa Clara Convention Center with abundant resources, ideas and examples they can apply immediately to leveraging the Cloud, helping them to maximize performance, minimize cost and improve the scalability of their Enterprise IT endeavors. 
Delegates will leave Cloud Expo with dramatically increased understanding the entire scope of the entire cloud computing spectrum from storage to security.
Whether you're an enterprise or small to medium business, you'll soon be benefiting from the Cloud. Join your peers in Silicon Valley November 4-7, and maximize those benefits already in 2013. See you in Santa Clara!
 
 
Register Now! 
Save $500 on your “Golden Pass”! Call 201.802.3020 
                      or click here to Register 
                    Early Bird Expires Friday.
                  Speaker Opportunities 
Submit your speaking proposal for the upcoming Cloud Expo in Silicon Valley
[November 4-7, 2013]
                  Exhibitor Info 
Please Call 201.802.3021 
events (at) sys-con.com. 
Carmen Gonzalez, 
carmen (at) sys-con.com.
Produced and presented by Cloud Expo, Inc.
Terms of Use & Our Privacy Statement - About Newsfeeds / Videofeeds. Copyright ©1994-2013 Ulitzer, Inc.
                All Rights Reserved. All marks are trademarks of Ulitzer, Inc.
                Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of Ulitzer, Inc. is prohibited.