Asia Times
128 captures
01 Aug 2003 - 19 Apr 2023
Jul
AUG
Oct
01
2002
2003
2004
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawls DS
  Crawl data donated by Alexa Internet. This data is currently not publicly accessible
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20030801205716/http://www.atimes.com:80/atimes/Front_Page/EF07Aa01.html
Search Asia Times 
 
 
Advanced 
Search
 
 
Front Page
Minority rule, majority 
                        hateWorld on Fire by 
                        Amy Chua Review by Sreeram Chaulia 
                        Can two seemingly 
                        unrelated issues like globalization and violent 
                        ethnonationalism actually have a priori linkages? Yale 
                        University professor Amy Chua's new book takes the 
                        globalization debate into uncharted territory via myriad 
                        comparative examples to show the explosive collision 
                        between free market democracy and ethnic hatred. 
                        Chua begins with the murder of her Chinese 
                        Filipina aunt in Manila, an expression of the extreme 
                        frustration and anger of the indigenous majority towards 
                        Chinese "outsiders" who dominate key sectors of the 
                        Philippines' increasingly globalized economy. Plutocrats 
                        of Chinese descent, whose fortunes have ballooned due to 
                        free market economic policies, appear "to the vast 
                        majority of Filipinos as exploiters, as foreign 
                        intruders, their wealth inexplicable, their superiority 
                        intolerable". (p 4) The same story is being replayed in 
                        many other parts of Southeast Asia. In Burma's 
                        new liberalized economy, Sino-Burmese minorities have 
                        been transformed into a garishly prosperous business 
                        community that monopolizes the gem, teak wood and light 
                        consumer industries. "Today, ordinary Burmans speak of 
                        'the Chinese invasion' or 'recolonization by the 
                        Chinese'." Vietnam's post-1988 pro-market reforms have 
                        also marked the resurgence of Chinese commercial 
                        dominance at the expense of the impoverished locals. 
                        Here too, there is a bitter outcry against "the Chinese 
                        stranglehold". In Thailand, all but three of the 
                        most powerful business groups are owned by Thai Chinese. 
                        In Malaysia, Chinese minorities comprise a third of the 
                        population but account for 70 percent of the country's 
                        market capitalization. In Indonesia, which has witnessed 
                        bloody anti-Chinese riots, the 3 percent Chinese 
                        minority controls 70 percent of the private economy. 
                        Throughout the region, "there festers among the 
                        indigenous majorities deep anti-Chinese resentment, 
                        rooted not just in poverty but feelings of envy, 
                        insecurity and exploitation". (p 47) Moving to 
                        South America, Chua finds the same pattern of a 
                        "market-dominant minority" from outside grabbing the 
                        lion's portion of globalization's benefits and stoking 
                        ethnonationalist fires. Bolivia's Amerindian majority is 
                        largely excluded from the modern economy, while the 
                        white capitalists originating from Europe and North 
                        America own the most valuable natural resources and the 
                        most advanced economic sectors. "Global markets have 
                        intensified the economic dominance of Bolivia's white 
                        elite over the country's growth-stunted, impoverished 
                        indigenous majority." (p 56) In Peru, Guatemala and 
                        Ecuador too, Amerindians represent a mass underclass 
                        being bossed around by the light-skinned rich. All of 
                        Mexico's lucrative corporate sectors are concentrated in 
                        the exclusive hands of a small clubby white 
                        market-dominant minority. The latifundia feudal land 
                        ownership system, dominated by Spanish-blooded families, 
                        is booming further with each new round of 
                        pro-globalization reforms. Other outsider 
                        minorities making hay under the neo-liberal economic 
                        order in Latin America include Lebanese, Jewish and 
                        Palestinian businessmen, who corner enormous profits in 
                        Brazil, Panama, Argentina, Belize and Honduras. All over 
                        the region, traditionally soft in ethnic identity 
                        assertion, "distinctively ethnic resentment against 
                        market-dominant light-skinned elites is on the rise." (p 
                        73) In post-Communist Russia, six out of the 
                        seven wealthiest and most powerful oligarchs, wielding 
                        mind-boggling political and economic leverage, are 
                        Jewish. Owing to the virulent history of Russian 
                        anti-Semitism, this racial profile of the nouveau riche 
                        has not gone unnoticed. How, it is being asked on the 
                        streets, did members of a minuscule "outsider" ethnic 
                        minority come to wield unimaginable might since 1991? 
                        Chua notes that political anti-Semitism is on the rise, 
                        as a majority of ordinary Russians believe "they have 
                        been impoverished at the expense of rich Jews." 
                        References to "Zioncrats" and "bloodsucking Yids" who 
                        hijacked privatization and stole the wealth of the 
                        Russian people are commonplace. In southern 
                        Africa, English-speaking whites, thanks to the 
                        gargantuan head start of colonialism, lord over 
                        lucrative industries like gold, platinum, diamond 
                        mining, finance, insurance and technology. Namibia, 
                        Zimbabwe and South Africa have market-dominant white 
                        minorities that are stretching this historical lead 
                        longer due to laissez-faire market conditions. Kenya has 
                        an inordinately prosperous, disproportionately skilled 
                        white minority that cavorts in colonial fashion in 
                        country clubs and golf courses, while the 31 million 
                        blacks survive on less than two dollars per day. 
                        Indigenous Kenyan market-dominant minorities, the 
                        Kikuyu, are seen by the toilers as accomplices of these 
                        white "rulers". Nigeria's Ibo community is another 
                        indigenous market-dominant minority that dominates key 
                        sectors and is enriching itself in the globalized 
                        economy due to its long experience of manipulating 
                        markets. The Bamileke of Cameroon and the Susu of Guinea 
                        are other indigenous minorities subject to widespread 
                        resentment by the masses. Besides whites, the 
                        other non-indigenous market dominant minorities in 
                        Africa are Indian and Lebanese merchants. Indian 
                        Kenyans, less than 2 percent of the population, "benefit 
                        extremely disproportionately from globalization and 
                        market liberalization because of their international 
                        connections" and access to capital. (p 113) Lebanese 
                        market dominance in Sierra Leone, Gambia, Cote d'Ivoire, 
                        Benin, Ghana and Liberia is astounding, encompassing 
                        fields like diamonds and gold, finance, retail, 
                        construction and real estate. Lebanese entrepreneurs, 
                        together with a handful of native politicians and 
                        foreign investors, are the principal beneficiaries of 
                        globalization in West Africa. Chua's second part 
                        of the thesis relates to raw majoritarian democracy 
                        which, when added to markets, cooks a recipe for 
                        upheaval and ethnic conflagration. "As markets enrich 
                        the market-dominant minority, democratization increases 
                        the political voice and power of the frustrated 
                        majority." (p 124) The violence directed at Zimbabwe's 
                        white farmers and their black farmhands is "an anarchy 
                        born of democracy", ie Robert Mugabe's vote hankering 
                        and reduction of democracy to bare minimum electoral 
                        connotation. Nationalization of "foreign-owned 
                        property" is the result of this sort of lopsided 
                        democracy that is being imposed on the third world. 
                        Confiscations and expropriations in developing countries 
                        have explicitly and exclusively targeted assets and 
                        industries of the hated market-dominant minorities, 
                        giving an outlet to the popular frustration and 
                        vengeance demanded by the majority population. 
                        Demagogues promising to restore the honor and 
                        possessions of the majority are supported with wild 
                        enthusiasm, be it in post-Suharto Indonesia, which 
                        embarked on an anti-Chinese business pogrom, or Putin's 
                        Russia, which is turning on Jewish media moguls. Hugo 
                        Chavez came to power in Venezuela by attacking "rotten 
                        white elites", and the mysterious right-wing coup 
                        against him in April 2002 failed because the new 
                        leadership excluded the Pardos majority from power 
                        entirely. To preempt confiscations, 
                        market-dominant minorities sometimes enter into 
                        symbiotic alliances with corrupt indigenous politicians, 
                        better known as crony capitalism. Sierra Leone under 
                        Siaka Stevens saw Lebanese magnate Jamil Mohammed become 
                        a shadow "co-president", with "global markets generally 
                        approving of these arrangements". (p 150) Kenya's Daniel 
                        Arap Moi concluded a network of deals with a coterie of 
                        Indian businessmen in 1978. Suharto's Chinese-friendly 
                        autocracy in Indonesia was similarly a backlash by 
                        market-dominant minorities after Sukarno's 
                        nationalizations. Marcos' crony capitalist empire with 
                        the Chinese business community in Philippines was a 
                        payback for Ramon Magsaysay's anti-Chinese drive of the 
                        fifties. Some market-dominant minorities do not rest at 
                        crony capitalism or rent seeking and seize power 
                        directly. Apartheid South Africa and the whole of Latin 
                        America bear testimony. The most horrific 
                        outcome of free market democracy in the face of a 
                        market-dominant minority is government-sponsored 
                        attempts to "cleanse" the outsiders. Non-Russian former 
                        Soviet Republics cleansed and drove out 2 million ethnic 
                        Russians after 1991. Russia, Ukraine and Belarus upped 
                        anti-Jewish violence and expelled nearly 1 million 
                        "shylocks" in 1999. Ethiopia deported 50,000 
                        Eritrean-Ethiopians who used to dominate commerce in the 
                        last few years. An estimated 110,000 Chinese families 
                        fled Indonesia around the same period. Hutu Power 
                        advocates in Rwanda called for "majority rule" and 
                        "democratic revolution," only to mastermind a 
                        bloodcurdling genocide against Tutsi "invaders" in 1994. 
                        In the Balkans, Croat and Slovene minorities that were 
                        disproportionately prosperous vis-a-vis the more 
                        populous Serbs faced the deadly fate of mass expulsions 
                        and genocidal violence. Extending the theory of 
                        market-dominant minorities beyond the confines of the 
                        nation-state, Chua argues that in the Middle East as a 
                        region, "globalization has wildly disproportionately 
                        benefited an 'outsider'- Israeli Jews - fuelling ethnic 
                        resentment and hatred among a massive Arab population 
                        that considers itself the 'indigenous' true owner of the 
                        land". (p 211) Besides cultural and historical enmities, 
                        the Middle East is a conflict between 221 million, 
                        largely poor Arabs, against Israel's starkly prosperous 
                        5.2 million Jews. Arab squalor and mass frustration runs 
                        headlong into Israel's highly educated, skilled and 
                        Westernized Jews. That is why "one often hears 
                        half-admiring, half-contemptuous grumblings about Jewish 
                        wealth, greed and moneymaking tendencies" among common 
                        Arabs. (p 222) Rapid democratization of the Arab states, 
                        being pushed by the US government as a cure-all, will 
                        exacerbate ethnonationalist hatred for the 
                        market-dominant Jews and fuel even greater bloodshed. 
                        Chua's piece de resistance is the idea 
                        that "America today has become the world's 
                        market-dominant minority." The principal beneficiary of 
                        globalization and spread of free markets, the United 
                        States, has attained heights of global economic power 
                        that are wildly disproportionate to its tiny numbers. 
                        "Our extraordinary market dominance, our global 
                        invincibility have earned the envy, fear and resentment 
                        of much of the rest of the world." (p 231) American 
                        products, companies, investors, entertainment, cuisine 
                        and culture are viewed as "outsider" threats to 
                        legitimate "indigenous" society all over the third 
                        world. Anti-Americanism is a form of "frustration 
                        heightened by access to images and information about how 
                        much better Americans live"/ (p 246) Anti-American 
                        investor confiscations and expulsions have occurred in 
                        Mexico, Argentina, Chile and Uruguay before the era of 
                        globalization, but countries daring to expropriate 
                        American property today risk serious consequences, a 
                        fact that heightens suppressed fury. The September 11, 
                        2001 terror attacks, reminds Chua, prompted "momentary 
                        jubilation of millions of poor and exploited people 
                        around the world", not just in Muslim countries. It was 
                        a reflection of the crushing humiliation perceived to be 
                        inflicted by the US on the Third World. Chua 
                        concludes with recommendations to prevent ethnic hatred 
                        from devouring the globalizing South. Educational reform 
                        and equalization of opportunities for poor 
                        indigenous-blooded majorities are imperative. Strong 
                        redistributive measures - progressive taxation, social 
                        security, unemployment insurance, antitrust regulation, 
                        affirmative action, dispersed capital market ownership - 
                        need to be implemented in Asia, Africa and South 
                        America. The precedent of Malaysian Prime Minister 
                        Mahathir Mohamad's ethnic quotas for bumiputra Malays 
                        could be worth emulating. Market-dominant minorities 
                        themselves should eliminate corrupt and illicit business 
                        practices that enrage the majority community, and invest 
                        in the local economies in which they thrive. Corporate 
                        responsibility by Indian firms in East Africa and Roman 
                        Abramovich in Russia are current instances of softening 
                        the ethnic fault lines that have been opened by global 
                        markets. Washington "should not promote 
                        unrestrained, overnight majority rule" by shipping out 
                        ballot boxes for national elections in countries that 
                        have market-dominant minority problems. It must also 
                        improve its dismal foreign aid record (the US has the 
                        lowest aid budget among advanced economies, viz 0.1 
                        percent of GDP). Chua fails to add that the vice-like 
                        grip of the United States on global financial 
                        institutions is a major source of anti-Americanism that 
                        also needs restructuring. For those countries 
                        that ill-fit her model, Chua has an escape clause 
                        disclaimer to the thesis that free market democracy, as 
                        is being vigorously exported by globalization advocates, 
                        aggravates ethnic imbalances and distrust in the 
                        developing world. "This book is not proposing a 
                        universal theory applicable to every developing 
                        country." (p 15) She cautions against misappropriating 
                        her thesis to cases that are exceptions and outliers. As 
                        a result, she leaves scant room for disagreement or 
                        criticism. Marxists will dislike this book since 
                        it complicates the simplistic class struggle blueprint 
                        by introducing the ethnicity card. Thomas Friedman and 
                        other globalization honchos will also dislike it for 
                        questioning their core tenets of "trickle down effect" 
                        and "lifting all boats". For those not married to 
                        ideology, Chua's sui generis theory will make a lot of 
                        sense. World on Fire: How exporting free 
                        market democracy breeds ethnic hatred and global 
                        instability by Amy Chua, Doubleday, New 
                        York, 2003. ISBN: 0-385-50302-4. Price: US$26. 340 Pages 
                        (Copyright 2003 Asia Times Online Co, Ltd. All 
                        rights reserved. Please contact content@atimes.com for 
                        information on our sales and syndication policies.)
 
 
Jun 7, 2003
 
Affiliates
Click here to be one)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No 
material from Asia Times Online may be republished in any form without written 
permission.
Copyright 
2003, Asia Times Online, 4305 Far East Finance Centre, 16 Harcourt Rd, 
Central, Hong Kong
 
 
Privacy and Legal Policies
 
 