      Oxford University/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine approved - GOV.UK
  
 Skip to main content
Cookies on GOV.UK
We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services.
We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services.
You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.
You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.
Accept additional cookies
Reject additional cookies
View cookies
          Hide this message
        
              GOV.UK
            
        Navigation menu
      
                Menu
              
Menu
 
                Search GOV.UK
              
                ×
              
                Search GOV.UK
              
                  Services and information
                
Benefits
Births, death, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
                  Government activity
                
Departments
Departments, agencies and public bodies
News
News stories, speeches, letters and notices
Guidance and regulation
Detailed guidance, regulations and rules
Research and statistics
Reports, analysis and official statistics
Policy papers and consultations
Consultations and strategy
Transparency
Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports
            Search
          
Search GOV.UK
        Search
        
 
Popular on GOV.UK
Get support with the cost of living
Find out about the Energy Bills Support Scheme
Find a job
Universal Credit account: sign in
Check your National Insurance record
Home
Health and social care
Medicines, medical devices
Pharmacy
    Press release
  
    Oxford University/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine approved
  
The new vaccine has been approved after meeting the required safety, quality and effectiveness standards.
From:
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency
Published
30 December 2020
The COVID-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University/AstraZeneca has today been given regulatory approval by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) after meeting required safety, quality and effectiveness standards.
Following a rigorous, detailed scientific review by the MHRA’s expert scientists and clinicians and on the basis of the advice of its scientific, independent advisory body, the Commission on Human Medicines, the UK regulator has approved COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca for use across the UK.
MHRA Chief Executive Dr June Raine said:
We are delighted to announce the good news that the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 is now approved for supply following a robust and thorough assessment of all the available data.
A huge collaborative effort and commitment goes into these assessments which include reviewing vast amounts of data. Our staff have worked tirelessly to ensure we continue to make safe vaccines available to people across the UK.
No stone is left unturned when it comes to our assessments. This approval means more people can be protected against this virus and will help save lives. This is another significant milestone in the fight against this virus. We will continue to support and work across the healthcare system to ensure that COVID-19 vaccines are rolled out safely across the UK. Protecting health and improving lives is our mission and what we strive for.
The Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine has been approved for use for people 18 years or older and consists of two doses, with the second dose administered 4-12 weeks after the first dose. The transportation and storage requirements for this vaccine mean that it needs to be kept at temperatures of 2C to 8C, which is similar to a conventional fridge for up to six months and can be administered within existing healthcare settings.
Oxford University/AstraZeneca has been submitting data to the MHRA since September 2020 under the rolling review process, enabling data to be reviewed in stages, as it became available.
The National Institute for Biological Standards and Control, part of the MHRA, has been and will continue doing, independent laboratory testing to ensure that every batch of the vaccine meets the expected standards of safety and quality.
As with any vaccine or medicine, COVID-19 vaccines require continuous safety monitoring by the MHRA and that the benefits in protecting people against COVID-19 must be greater than any side-effect or potential risks.
See Information for Healthcare Professionals, and Information for UK recipients .
Additional updates relating to use of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine
The CHM has also reviewed further data for the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine as it has become available and has recommended the following changes:
Pregnancy and women who are breastfeeding - the vaccine should only be considered for use in pregnancy when the potential benefits outweigh any potential risks for the mother and baby. Women should discuss the benefits and risks of having the vaccine with their healthcare professional and reach a joint decision based on individual circumstances. Women who are breastfeeding can also be given the vaccine. This advice is in line with pregnancy and breastfeeding advice for the Oxford University/AstraZeneca vaccine
Allergies - anyone with a previous history of allergic reactions to the ingredients of the vaccine should not receive it, but those with any other allergies such as a food allergy can now have the vaccine.
Dosage interval - the advice has been updated to say that the second dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine should be given at least 21 days after the first dose.
Notes to Editor
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in the UK by ensuring they work and are acceptably safe. All our work is underpinned by robust and fact-based judgements to ensure that the benefits justify any risks.
The decision to approve the supply of this vaccine was taken under Regulation 174 of the Human Medicine Regulations 2012, which enables rapid temporary regulatory approvals to address significant public health issues such as a pandemic.
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (‘the agency’) has three centres.  The MHRA, the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). The agency is an executive agency of the Department of Health and Social Care.
The Commission on Human Medicines (CHM) advises ministers and the MHRA on the safety, efficacy and quality of medicinal products. The CHM is an advisory non-departmental public body, sponsored by the Department of Health and Social Care.
Media enquiries
      News centreMHRA
10 South ColonnadeLondonE14 4PU
    
          Email newscentre@mhra.gov.uk
          During office hours: 020 3080 7651 (08:30 - 17:00)
        
          Out of office hours: 07770 446 189 (17:00 - 08:30)
        
Office hours are Monday to Friday, 8:30am to 5pm. For real-time updates including the latest press releases and news statements, see our Twitter channel at https://www.twitter.com/mhragovuk.
Share this page
      Sharing will open the page in a new tab
    
 
              Share on
          
          Facebook
          
            (opens in new tab)
          
 
              Share on
          
          Twitter
          
            (opens in new tab)
          
    Published 30 December 2020
        Related content
      
Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine shelf-life extended from 5 to 31 days, says MHRA
Collection
MHRA guidance on coronavirus (COVID-19)
Explore the topic
Pharmacy
Vaccinations for COVID-19
Is this page useful?
              Maybe
 
              Yes this page is useful
              No this page is not useful
      Thank you for your feedback
    
        Report a problem with this page
      
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only. Please leave blank
What were you doing?
What went wrong?
Send
        Cancel
      
Help us improve GOV.UK
To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. We’ll send you a link to a feedback form. It will take only 2 minutes to fill in. Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
Email address
Send me the survey
        Cancel
      
Services and information
Benefits
Births, death, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Government activity
Departments
News
Guidance and regulation
Research and statistics
Policy papers and consultations
Transparency
How government works
Get involved
Support links
Help
Privacy
Cookies
Accessibility statement
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Government Digital Service
          All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
        
© Crown copyright