Unesco Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Unesco14,392 FollowersRecent papers in UnescoTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleI giardini dei Gonzaga: un atlante per la storia del territorio. Esiti in ambito urbanoSave to LibraryDownloadby Claudia Bonora Previdi•  4  Unesco, Architectural History, Garden History, The Gonzaga of MantuaWorld Heritage and Sustainable Development: New Directions in World Heritage Management (co-edited with William Logan, Routledge 2018)In 2015, the General Assembly of States Parties to the World Heritage Convention passed a ground-breaking Sustainable Development policy that seeks to bring the World Heritage system into line with the UN’s sustainable development agenda.... moreIn 2015, the General Assembly of States Parties to the World HeritageConvention passed a ground-breaking Sustainable Developmentpolicy that seeks to bring the World Heritage system into line with theUN’s sustainable development agenda. World Heritage andSustainable Development provides a broad overview of the processthat brought about the new policy, and the implications of itsenactment.Divided into four parts, Part I puts the policy in its historical andtheoretical context, and Part II offers an analysis of the four policydimensions - environmental sustainability, inclusive socialdevelopment, inclusive economic development, and the fostering ofpeace and security – on which the policy is based. Part III presents theviews of IUCN, ICOMOS, and ICCROM - the three Advisory Bodies to theWorld Heritage Committee, and Part IV offers ‘case study’ perspectiveson the practical implications of the policy. Contributions come from awide range of experienced heritage professionals and practitionerswho offer both ‘inside’ perspectives on the evolution of the policy and‘outside’ perspectives on its implications. Combined, they present andanalyse the main ideas, debates, and implications of the policy change.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter B Larsen and +6William LoganStefan DiskoLuisa De MarcoDina BakhoumPatricia AlberthCesar Augusto Velandia Silva•  11  Heritage Studies, Human Rights, Sustainable Development, UnescoHaitian Creole Comes of Age: Philology, Orthography, Education, and Literature in the "Haitian Sixties," 1934-1957The twenty-three years (1934-1957) between the end of the US Occupation and the start of the Duvalier era were a dynamic period of introspection and change in Haitian society. The relatively high degree of freedom of expression, the... moreThe twenty-three years (1934-1957) between the end of the US Occupation and the start of the Duvalier era were a dynamic period of introspection and change in Haitian society. The relatively high degree of freedom of expression, the proliferation of ideologies like Marxism and Noirisme, and the "Revolution of 1946" were all linked to a transformation of Haitian politics and culture unprecedented since 1804. One clear indication of the spirit of this chapter of the country's history, which I have labeled the Haitian Sixties, was the progress made by the Kreyòl movement. After the setbacks under the US Occupation, the call for a legitimation of the popular language entered a phase of renewed vigor: it was bolstered by groundbreaking philological studies, concerted attempts to create a standard orthography, experiments in the use of the Kreyòl language as a medium of instruction, and a renaissance in Kreyòl-language literature. Yet as the movement progressed, it was hampered by new internal divisions and longstanding prejudices at different levels of Haitian society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Matt Robertshaw•  13  Cultural History, Education, Languages and Linguistics, SociolinguisticsPartecipazione alla gestione: il ruolo della società civile (Domodossola, 2008)Pag. 67 (Intervento)Save to LibraryDownloadby Massimo Marco Carcione•  6  Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Unesco, Cultural Heritage Management, Civil SocietyUNESCO s project to Revive the Spirit of Mosul.pdfFollowing the devastation of the northern Iraqi city of Mosul by the Islamic State (IS), UNESCO launched a project to ‘Revive the Spirit of Mosul’. This article critically reflects on this UNESCO-led project, drawing on 47 interviews with... moreFollowing the devastation of the northern Iraqi city of Mosul by theIslamic State (IS), UNESCO launched a project to ‘Revive the Spirit ofMosul’. This article critically reflects on this UNESCO-led project, drawingon 47 interviews with Syrians and Iraqis, as well as documenting theimplications of UNESCO’s efforts in earlier (post-)conflict heritage reconstructionprojects in the Balkans, Afghanistan and Mali. Specifically, thisarticle focuses on two sites in Mosul, both deliberately destroyed by theIS and both nominated by UNESCO for reconstruction. The data analysedreveal that heritage reconstruction projects, especially in complex (post-)conflict environments such as Iraq, requires ongoing, nuanced and carefulengagement with local populations to succeed. Failure to do soleaves both local people and their heritage sites vulnerable to renewedattacks and therefore ultimately undermines UNESCO’s broader missionto foster peace.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lynn Meskell and +1Benjamin  Isakhan•  15  Anthropology, Peace and Conflict Studies, Cultural Heritage, Heritage StudiesRevisiting the Faure Report (1972) and the Delors Report (1996): Why was UNESCO's Utopian Vision of Lifelong Learning an "Unfailure"?Save to LibraryDownloadby Maren Elfert•  6  Lifelong Learning, Unesco, New International Economic Order, Faure reportI giardini dei Gonzaga. Un Atlante per la storia del territorioa cura di P.E. Falini, C. Bonora Previdi, M. Brignani, Del Gallo Editori, Spoleto, 2018Save to LibraryDownloadby Claudia Bonora Previdi•  6  Landscape Architecture, Unesco, Gardens, Garden HistoryDas iniciativas internacionais para a regulação da Inteligência ArtificialPalestra para o II Congresso Internacional das Américas, I Simpósio do GRULAC e Fórum Argentina Brasil de Direito - Aduaneiro e Tecnologia. Organizado pela Comissão de Direito e Relações Internacionais da Subseção de Santos da Ordem dos... morePalestra para o II Congresso Internacional das Américas, I Simpósio do GRULAC e Fórum Argentina Brasil de Direito - Aduaneiro e Tecnologia. Organizado pela Comissão de Direito e Relações Internacionais da Subseção de Santos da Ordem dos Advogados do Brasil. Dia 10 de junho de 2022.Save to LibraryDownloadby Manuel David Masseno•  11  Artificial Intelligence, International Relations, International Human Rights Law, UnescoLe Nazioni Unite e l’antropologia.Gli Stati e le istituzioni internazionali agiscono come importanti attori di cambiamento sociale e culturale su individui, gruppi e comunità. Per questo è utile applicare la lente dell’antropologia sociale e culturale ad apparati... moreGli Stati e le istituzioni internazionali agiscono come importanti attori di cambiamento sociale e culturale su individui, gruppi e comunità. Per questo è utile applicare la lente dell’antropologia sociale e culturale ad apparati burocratici che, tramite il paradigma giuridico-politico della salvaguardia delle “culture” intese come diversità di pensiero e di azione, dunque come “biodiversità”, influenzano così tanto la vita quotidiana e le aspirazioni comuni. Peraltro, il lavoro antropologico è assai presente nelle istituzioni internazionali e soprattutto nelle agenzie delle Nazioni Unite, attraverso il coinvolgimento diretto degli antropologi nei lavori di consulenza e di analisi istituzionale che può essere anche molto critica. Passando in rassegna attività svolte nell’UNESCO, nella Banca Mondiale, nella FAO e nell’IFAD, questo volume riflette sul lavoro degli antropologi nelle istituzioni internazionali tra giudizi valutativi, analisi dei progetti, impegno professionale interno e consulenze esterne.Antonino Colajanni, già professore di Antropologia Sociale presso la Sapienza Università di Roma, si è occupato di cambiamenti sociali e conflitti tra alcune popolazioni indigene dell’America Latina (Jivaro dell’Ecuador e Kogi della Colombia) e anche di Antropologia giuridica, di Antropologia dello sviluppo e di Antropologia applicata. È stato consulente di ONG e di Organizzazioni Internazionali.Lia Giancristofaro è professore di Antropologia Culturale presso l’Università di Chieti, dove insegna la materia dal 2006. Si occupa di Antropologia delle Istituzioni, Heritage studies ed Etnologia dell’Europa. Coordina progetti di ricerca per il suo Ateneo e altri Enti, operando in Europa, Nordafrica, Canada e Argentina.Viviana Sacco, laureata in Discipline antropologiche presso la Sapienza Università di Roma, ha conseguito il Master in “Cooperazione e Sviluppo”, presso l’Università degli Studi Superiori di Pavia. Ha oltre 15 anni di esperienza lavorativa nella cooperazione internazionale per conto di ONG e organizzazioni internazionali.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lia Giancristofaro•  7  Cultural Heritage, Applied Anthropology, United Nations, UnescoUNESCO, World Heritage, and Human Rights ComplianceThis whitepaper provides a legal analysis to align the 1972 World Heritage Convention and the UNESCO Constitution and its commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms. It sets out recommendations for UNESCO, the World Heritage... moreThis whitepaper provides a legal analysis to align the 1972 World Heritage Convention and the UNESCO Constitution and its commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms. It sets out recommendations for UNESCO, the World Heritage governing bodies, and States Parties to ensure properties on the World Heritage List and Tentative Lists are not sites of serious, systematic violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lynn Meskell•  18  International Relations, Indigenous Studies, Cultural Heritage, Human Rights LawAnatómia historického domu. Hodnoty historickej architektúry a urbanizmu Banskej Štiavnice/ Anatomy of historic houseIde o populárno-náučnú knihu,ktorá je určená vlastníkom historických domov a študentom architektúry. Snaží sa predstaviť typické architektonické znaky architektúry -- jej proporcií, tvarov, detailov v jednotlivých slohových obdobiach. To... moreIde o populárno-náučnú knihu,ktorá je určená vlastníkom historických domov a študentom architektúry. Snaží sa predstaviť typické architektonické znaky architektúry -- jej proporcií, tvarov, detailov v jednotlivých slohových obdobiach. To všetko predstavuje kresbami Marcela Mészárosa na konkrétnych historických domoch Banskej Štiavnice. Keďže kniha je určená najmä tým, ktorí domy najčastejšie adaptujú na bývanie, zameriava sa na typologické druhy obytného charakteru, ktoré sú pre mesto typické: dom meštiansky, dom remeselnícky a dom banícky. 143 stránSave to LibraryDownloadby Katarína Vošková•  5  Cultural Heritage, Unesco, World Heritage Site Studies, Historic ArchitectureMILLÁN, HEIRAS, QUESTA, PÉREZ TÉLLEZ 2018 Patrimonio inmaterial y danzas indígenas de MéxicoMILLÁN, Saúl (coordinación); Carlos HEIRAS; Alessandro QUESTA; Iván PÉREZ TÉLLEZ (investigación), “Patrimonio cultural inmaterial y los pueblos indígenas de México”; “Danzas indígenas de México”, en Las culturas indígenas de México. Atlas... moreMILLÁN, Saúl (coordinación); Carlos HEIRAS; Alessandro QUESTA; Iván PÉREZ TÉLLEZ (investigación), “Patrimonio cultural inmaterial y los pueblos indígenas de México”; “Danzas indígenas de México”, en Las culturas indígenas de México. Atlas nacional de etnografía, Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia, México, 2018, 739 pp. ISBN 978-607-539-102-1.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Guadalupe  Heiras Rodríguez•  12  Unesco, Patrimonio, Pueblos indígenas, Patrimonio cultural inmaterialSomut Olmayan Kültürel Miras Kapsamında Elazığ Kürsübaşı GeleneğiÖZET Turistleri, bir destinasyonu ziyaret etmeye iten önemli motivasyon kaynaklarından biri de o yörenin sahip olduğu kültürel değerlerdir. Kültürün yaşatılması ve aktarılabilmesi için, kültürel değerlerin doğru şekilde sunulabilmesi... moreÖZET Turistleri, bir destinasyonu ziyaret etmeye iten önemli motivasyon kaynaklarından biri de o yörenin sahip olduğu kültürel değerlerdir. Kültürün yaşatılması ve aktarılabilmesi için, kültürel değerlerin doğru şekilde sunulabilmesi gerekmektedir. 2010 yılında UNESCO Dünya Kültür Mirası Listesine eklenen geleneksel sohbet toplantıları kategorisindeki kürsübaşı, Elazığ'a özgü bir somut olmayan kültürel miras değeridir. Somut olmayan kültürel mirasın korunması açısından, kültürel miras turizminin etkinliği ve sürdürülebilirliği önemli bir konudur. Bu bağlamda, kürsübaşı geleneğinin yaşatılması, turistlere sürdürülebilir şekilde sunulması ve bu konuda farkındalık yaratılması açısından, Elazığ'da faaliyet gösteren turizm işletmelerinin rolü büyüktür. Bu çalışmada, İnsanlığın Somut Olmayan Kültürel Mirası Türkiye Temsil Listesi'nde yer alan kürsübaşı sohbet toplantılarının, geleneklerin yaşatılması adına otel işletmelerinde hangi düzeyde ele alındığının tespiti ve kürsübaşı geleneğinin, otellerde yönetici farkındalığı bağlamında ve kanâât önderleri nezdinde incelenmesi amaçlanmıştır. Araştırmanın sonuçlarına göre kürsübaşı geleneği günümüzde özünün dışına çıkarak, bir eksen kayması yaşamıştır. Ayrıca, otel misafirlerinden gelen taleplerin düşük seviyede olması ve otel yöneticilerinin bu geleneğe tam anlamıyla vakıf olmamaları, kürsübaşı geleneğinin turistik bağlamda bilinirliğini sekteye uğratmaktadır. ABSTRACT One of the most substantial sources of motivation for tourists to visit a destination is the unique cultural practices carried out in that region. It is important to reveal cultural values effectively in terms of keeping and transferring culture. Kürsübaşı, which was inscribed in the List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of UNESCO in 2010, in the category of traditional sohbet meetings, is an important cultural value unique to Elazığ. The sustainability and operability of cultural heritage tourism is an important issue for the protection of intangible cultural heritage. In this context, tourism enterprises operating in Elazığ play a big role in keeping the Kürsübaşı tradition alive, presenting it to tourists in a sustainable way and raising awareness on this issue. In this Save to LibraryDownloadby Melih AYDIN•  15  Unesco, Kongre Turizmi, Somut Olmayan Kültürel Miras, Elazığ Yöresi Söz varlığıEducation Diplomacy at the Intersection of Gender Equality and Quality EducationThis article discusses the role of education diplomacy in the recent UNESCO publication, The Intersection of Gender Equality and Education in South-East Europe: A Regional Situation Analysis of the Nexus Between Sustainable Development... moreThis article discusses the role of education diplomacy in the recent UNESCO publication, The Intersection of Gender Equality and Education in South-East Europe: A Regional Situation Analysis of the Nexus Between Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4 (Quality Education) and SDG 5 (Gender Equality), authored by Sarah Fuller for the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Science and Culture in Europe (Venice, Italy).Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah  Fuller•  4  Comparative & International Education, Unesco, Education Policy, Educational DiplomacyAnmeldelse: UNESCO's pyrrhussejrAnmeldelse af Poul Duedahls "Fra overmenneske til UNESCO-menneske: Racebegrebet i Danmark 1890-1965"Save to LibraryDownloadby Frederik F Ørskov•  6  History Of Eugenics, Race and Racism, International organizations, History of ScienceThe Canadian Commission for UNESCO and the Culture of PeaceThe International Year for a Culture of Peace as a catalyst As we move into the International Year for a Culture of Peace, UNESCO can be justifiably proud of having provided the international community with a concept which is no less than... moreThe International Year for a Culture of Peace as a catalyst As we move into the International Year for a Culture of Peace, UNESCO can be justifiably proud of having provided the international community with a concept which is no less than a vision of the world and a social project. These were the terms used by former Director-General Federico Mayor to describe this groundbreaking initiative. In Canada, the Canadian Commission for UNESCO works from the premise that many of the actions undertaken by UNESCO since its creation have advanced the implementation of these principles without anyone actually stopping to think that this was what was being done. The CCU as facilitator Agents of change in Canadian civil society are well organized and varied. For reasons of efficiency they tend to target their actions too specifically, often losing sight of the overall view and movement. The Canadian Commission for UNESCO, by facilitating meetings focusing on the concept of the culture of peace, permits each individual to rediscover a meaning, motivation and sense of belonging in his or her contacts with others. The CCU as developer Agents of change concerned with accomplishing their work often do not take the time to describe it, share their experience and create sustainable links. By producing a variety of lists of partners to accompany the Canadian National Commission's Discussion Kit (http://www.unesco.ca/english/peacekit.htm), the Commission proposes a sharing of experiences and visibility for those who contribute to a culture of peace. This is due acknowledgement of the work accomplished, and will hopefully serve as encouragement to do more. The Commission hopes that its meetings will lead to more collaborations, based on lessons learned and new paths identified. We do this because we believe, that as important as formal education is in promoting a culture of peace, the non-formal sector touches more people. The CCU's partners We have tended to specialize and limit ourselves and limit ourselves to specific goals. The concept of a culture of peace invites us to open up to other approaches and other ways of seeing and thinking. It also invites us to work together toward a common goal. We would like to open the idea of the "culture of peace" to all who work with these principles, and feel inspired by the concept of the Culture of Peace.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marsh Conley•  2  Unesco, Culture of PeaceCrespi D'AddaCrespi d'Adda è un esempio eccezionale di villaggio operaio sorto per volere di alcuni industriali del XIX secolo desiderosi di migliorare non solo la produttività, ma anche la qualità di vita degli operai. Sorse così un complesso... moreCrespi d'Adda è un esempio eccezionale di villaggio operaio sorto per volere di alcuni industriali del XIX secolo desiderosi di migliorare non solo la produttività, ma anche la qualità di vita degli operai. Sorse così un complesso abitativo autonomo con giardini, orti, scuole, centri sportivi ed edifici civili e religiosi di interessante configurazione urbanistica. Sebbene le condizioni sociali ed economiche siano state una minaccia alla sopravvivenza di Crespi d'Adda, oggi la sua integrità è evidente ed è stata conservata in parte anche la sua attività industriale.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gloria Viale•  5  Unesco, Architectural History, Architettura, Architecture and Public SpacesHijacking isis digital imperialism and salvage politicsI remain wary of the academic industry that continues to flourish around Palmyra. Yes, the archaeological adventurism and opportunism of the early 20th century have been refashioned into new forms of international technocratic expertise.... moreI remain wary of the academic industry that continuesto flourish around Palmyra. Yes, the archaeological adventurism and opportunism of theearly 20th century have been refashioned into new forms of international technocratic expertise.But in fetishizing the arch, and indeed its copies, we also risk participating in the same discoursesthat are being critiqued. More sobering still is that the topics that scholars formulate (and seek tohave funded) have simply been recalibrated to the insidious practice of ‘crisis chasing’ (Cabot2019). The crisis is about salvage, albeit our own, since what is unfolding in Syria and Iraqhas inevitably saved and spawned myriad institutions, foundations, digital start-ups, initiativesand research, with a new mission and moral charge. Perhaps now we should be consideringwhether we are creating ever more hostages to fortune.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lynn Meskell•  12  Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, Peace and Conflict Studies, Middle East StudiesLa Conferencia de San José de Costa Rica (1976)En esta conferencia se dieron todos los ingredientes de lo que luego serían los turbu-lentos debates en la UNESCO. Aunque, como explicaremos aquí, los debates ya ha-bían sido muy duros y habían dibujado en el escenario de confrontación... moreEn esta conferencia se dieron todos los ingredientes de lo que luego serían los turbu-lentos debates en la UNESCO. Aunque, como explicaremos aquí, los debates ya ha-bían sido muy duros y habían dibujado en el escenario de confrontación Este/Oeste y Norte/Sur, será ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Ana I. Segovia•  5  Development Studies, Unesco, Nwico, Communication and DevelopmentThe Gold, Ivory, Myrrh and Slaves Routes out of Africa. A UNESCO three to five years research programme proposalA programme proposals to UNESCO to cover ongoing, and new research on the Indian Ocean African trade routes, history, goods and ships. A forgotten splendour on the way to be recovered and reconstructed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marco Vigano,  ማርኮ ቪጋኖ•  7  Ethiopian Studies, Indian Ocean History, Unesco, Indian Ocean TradeImplementation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions in the Digital Age: Challenges, Priority Actions and RecommendationsReport presented to the Intergovernmental Committee of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions Seventh Ordinary Session, Paris, December 10-­‐13, 2013Save to LibraryDownloadby Hélène Ruiz Fabri•UnescoBook Review: UNESCO on the Ground: Local Perspectives on Intangible Cultural Heritage  Journal of Anthropological ResearchUNESCO on the Ground: Local Perspectives on Intangible Cultural Heritage.Michael Dylan Foster and Lisa Gilman, eds. Bloomington:Indiana University Press, 2015, 180 pp. $30.00, paper.ISBN 978-0-253-01953-0.Save to LibraryDownloadby Charlotte L Joy•  3  Folklore, Unesco, Intangible Cultural Heritage (Culture)Prácticas culturales y DesarrolloA lo que nos llama el Plan –a través del nuevo subcampo —es a explorar, reconocer y valorar las prácticas culturales, no por nuestra afición a lo viejo, sino para añadir aceleradamente a nuestra bagaje, el mayor número de herramientas... moreA lo que nos llama el Plan –a través del nuevo subcampo —es a explorar, reconocer y valorar las prácticas culturales, no por nuestra afición a lo viejo, sino para añadir aceleradamente a nuestra bagaje, el mayor número de herramientas posible, de tal manera que renovemos nuestra capacidad creativa y reencontremos el sentido de nuestro desarrollo, desde lo propio; antes de que los errores de un modelo de desarrollo que ya dejó de producir rendimientos de satisfacción termine de morir.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Villasenor•  9  Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Social and Cultural Anthropology, Unesco Tilbury, D. (2011)  Are We Learning to Change? Mapping Global Progress in Education for  Sustainable Development in the Lead Up to 'Rio Plus 20.' Global Environmental Research, 14(2), 101–107. ISSN: 1343 8808  Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniella Tilbury•  22  Higher Education, Leadership, Organisational Change, Monitoring And EvaluationEl bien común como meta: retos para las instituciones de educación superior en América LatinaEn la bibliografía sobre educación superior en América Latina, la Reforma Universitaria de Córdoba en el 1918 resulta trascendental, refleja un antes y un después en cómo concebir las universidades y sus relaciones con los grupos de... moreEn la bibliografía sobre educación superior en América Latina, la Reforma Universitaria de Córdoba en el 1918 resulta trascendental, refleja un antes y un después en cómo concebir las universidades y sus relaciones con los grupos de interés de la sociedad. Los cambios legislativos en la educación superior, consecuencia de los hechos acontecidos en la Universidad de Córdoba, se extendieron progresivamente a los demás países de la región que introdujeron cambios en la estructura organizacional de sus universidades. Implicó un cambio del orden establecido, conforme las universidades respondían a mandatos orquestados por las élites dominantes de ese entonces, situación que dificultaba, por no decir imposibilitaba, representar la importancia socioeconómica de una emergente clase media que exigía su participación del cogobierno de lasuniversidades. El éxito de la reforma llevó a dotar a las universidadesde mayor autonomía frente al control de estamentos externos, la representación de estudiantes a los órganos de gobernanza e incluir a las misiones de formación e investigación, una tercera misión de extensión o proyección de la universidad hacia la sociedad (Acevedo, 2010; Tünnennann, 1998).Save to LibraryDownloadby Oscar Licandro•  4  Unesco, Educación superior, Responsabilidad Social, Bien Común Leave spirits outside heritageSave to LibraryDownloadby David Berliner•  29  Religion, Archaeology, Southeast Asian Studies, Cultural HeritageМеждународное спортивное право: учебник для бакалавров / отв. ред. К.А.Бекяшев. – Москва, Проспект, 2017.https://litgid.com/catalog/yuridicheskaya/mezhdunarodnoe_sportivnoe_pravo_uchebnik_dlya_bakalavrov/Save to LibraryDownloadby Larissa I Zakharova (Rybkinа)•  13  International Law, United Nations, Unesco, International Sports LawMyanmar: The Community Learning Centre ExperienceAn evaluation of the project: Community Learning Centres in Myanmar.  A pilot project supported by UNESCO to provide education and community development to rural areasSave to LibraryDownloadby Jorn Middelborg•  9  Community Development, Monitoring And Evaluation, Educational evaluation, Community Based EducationInternational Legal Framework for the Application of Genetic Technologies: Main Features and Issues Open for Discussion, pp. 39-72.The objective of the present article is to determine the specific characteristics of the established international legal framework for the application of genetic technologies and to identify general guidelines that influence states'... moreThe objective of the present article is to determine the specific characteristics of the established international legal framework for the application of genetic technologies and to identify general guidelines that influence states' policies in this area. Genetic technologies evolve rapidly, raising a number of ethical and legal issues and directly affecting human rights. At the universal level, there is still no international treaty containing uniform rules in this field. At the regional level, the experience of the Council of Europe deserves further study. National approaches to the legal regulation of applying genetic technologies differ since States retain a great deal of discretion in regulating these issues. Though the Council of Europe Member States enjoy a margin of appreciation in regulating the use of genetic technologies, a number of common distinctive features underlying the international legal framework in this area can still be singled out. These are informed consent, prohibition of reproductive human cloning, prohibition of germ line modification with certain exceptions. They arise primarily from the Oviedo Convention, the Protocols thereto and the ECtHR practice. Soft law documents adopted at the UN, UNESCO and the Council of Europe contribute to the process of their formation, too, but to a lesser extent. The efforts undertaken at the European and universal level shape modern international legal regulation in the field and set up the course of action for States to follow.Save to LibraryDownloadby Larissa I Zakharova (Rybkinа)•  14  Biomedicine, Bioethics, Human Rights, International Human Rights LawLe mura poligonali. Atti del VII Seminario ( Luca Attenni a cura di)Il volume raccoglie gli atti del VII Seminario sulle mura poligonali, tenutosi ad Alatri nei giorni 29 e 30 Novembre 2019. Il VII seminario è stato incentrato allo studio di quei comuni dell'Italia Centrale con la presenza di importanti... moreIl volume raccoglie gli atti del VII Seminario sulle mura poligonali, tenutosi ad Alatri nei giorni 29 e 30 Novembre 2019. Il VII seminario è stato incentrato allo studio di quei comuni dell'Italia Centrale con la presenza di importanti strutture in opera poligonale all'interno del loro territorio che stanno lavorando, sotto il coordinamento dei comuni di Alatri e Amelia, al progetto di futura candidatura Unesco di queste straordinarie realtà archeologiche.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luca Attenni•  5  Unesco, Beni Culturali, Popoli italici, UNESCO world heritageServing up change? Gender mainstreaming and the UNESCO-WTA partnership for global gender equalitySave to LibraryDownloadby Courtney C-to•  7  Unesco, Tennis, Cameroon, Sport for DevelopmentBEYOND ACCESS AND BARRIERS: INCLUSIVE EDUCATION AND SYSTEMS CHANGESave to LibraryDownloadby Christopher  Johnstone and +1Matthew J Schuelka•  5  Unesco, Morocco, Inclusive Education, Comparative and International Development EducationEducational Quality: Global Politics, Comparative Inquiry, and Opportunities to LearnEducational Quality: Global Politics, Comparative Inquiry, and Opportunities to LearnSave to LibraryDownloadby Gilbert Valverde•  8  Comparative & International Education, International Political Economy, Unesco, ArgentinaThe UNESCO Map of the Pamirs and its implications of ecotourism in TajikistanSave to LibraryDownloadby Markus Hauser•  5  Cartography, Ecotourism, Unesco, TajikistanSacred Mountain Landscape and Heritage Routes : Nature, Culture and Borderless BeliefsThe traditional pilgrimage route through India towards the holy mountain of Kailash in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China represents a timeless example of nature-culture linkage where the exquisite terrain is an integral part of the... moreThe traditional pilgrimage route through India towards the holy mountain of Kailash in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China represents a timeless example of nature-culture linkage where the exquisite terrain is an integral part of the local cultural practices. With multiple generations of pilgrims passing through, adding continuous layers of interpretation and memories, it is a living heritage which continues building its reputation and legend. The paper will look at the nature-culture connections that make the Indian section of the pilgrimage trail unique while acknowledging its continuity with the larger transnational landscape of pilgrimage to Mt. Kailash spread across India, Nepal and China. It will also correlate learnings from the Capacity Building Workshop on Nature-Culture Linkages 2019 organized by the University of Tsukuba and the site visit to Mt. Fuji to their parallels in the Indian pilgrimage route and landscape.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anuranjan Roy•  7  Heritage Tourism, Unesco, Nature Culture, Heritage ManagementDe nouvelles perspectives pour la protection des biens culturels en cas de conflit armé: l'entrée en vigueur du Deuxième Protocole relatif à la Convention de La Haye de 1954Fifty years after the adoption of the 1954 Hague Convention, the entry into force of the Second Protocol is the most recent step forward in the legal protection of cultural property during armed conflicts. The aim of this article is to... moreFifty years after the adoption of the 1954 Hague Convention, the entry into force of the Second Protocol is the most recent step forward in the legal protection of cultural property during armed conflicts. The aim of this article is to explain the significance of the new rules introduced by this instrument. Drawn up within the framework of UNESCO, the Second Protocol takes into account major developments in international humanitarian law, international criminal law and cultural heritage law. It significantly reinforces the provisions of the Hague Convention, particularly regarding measures to safeguard and ensure respect for cultural property, provides for a new system of enhanced protection, establishes a new institutional framework, defines serious violations, which entail individual criminal responsibility and the duty upon States Parties to establish jurisdiction over those violations, and, finally, extends the scope of application to non–international armed conflicts.                                                        * * * Cinquante ans après l’adoption de la Convention de La Haye, l’ entrée en vigueur du Deuxième Protocole constitue l’ avancée la plus récente dans la protection juridique des biens culturels dans les situations de conflit armé. L’auteur de l’ article s’attache à expliquer l’importance des nouvelles règles qu’introduit cet instrument. Élaboré dans le cadre de l’UNESCO, le Deuxième Protocole prend en compte les principaux éléments nouveaux dans le droit international humanitaire, le droit international pénal et le droit du patrimoine culturel. Il renforce considérablement les dispositions de la Convention de La Haye, notamment celles qui touchent aux mesures visant à préserver les biens culturels et à en garantir le respect, prévoit un nouveau système de protection renforcée, établit un nouveau cadre institutionnel, définit les violations graves, qui engendrent la responsabilité pénale individuelle et l’obligation, pour les États parties, d’incriminer dans leur droit inte rne de telles violations, et enfin élargit le champ d’ application aux conflits armés non-internationaux.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vittorio Mainetti•  9  Cultural Heritage, Cultural Heritage Conservation, Unesco, Cultural Property LawThe safeguard of Cultural Heritage in the Mediterranean countries afflicted by conflicts (Roma 2013)Valorization and protection of cultural patrimony as a tool for socio-economic development. Community awareness: a way to protect the cultural heritage to be considered as shared patrimony. International stakeholders active in risk... moreValorization and protection of cultural patrimony as a tool for socio-economic development. Community awareness: a way to protect the cultural heritage to be considered as shared patrimony. International stakeholders active in risk analysis and emergency initiatives: the experience of UNISDR, Blue Shield, ICRC, ICCROM and UNESCO. Risks factor to cultural heritage protection in emergency and conflict times: vandalism, illicit diggings, looting and illicit trafficking. Cultural relics inventory as a tool for fighting illicit trafficking: the experience of Carabinieri and INTERPOL. The activity of the Italian Civil Defense as a model to respond to emergencies that affect the cultural heritage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Massimo Marco Carcione•  17  Geography, Political Geography and Geopolitics, International Relations, Development StudiesEntrevista sobre o Movimento dos Sem Teto da Bahia (Brasil)Save to LibraryDownloadby Javier Collado Ruano•  18  Screenwriting, Education, Journalism, RadioTürkiye'nin Kültürel Mirası ISave to LibraryDownloadby Rüstem ASLAN•  7  Archaeology, Unesco, Arkeoloji, TroyThe UN and Mexico's South-South Cooperation: Towards a Global Partnership for DevelopmentSince the beginning of the 21st century southern countries have been experiencing a sustained period of development, allowing hundreds of millions of people to get out of poverty and expanding different forms of South-South Cooperation... moreSince the beginning of the 21st century southern countries have been experiencing a sustained period of development, allowing hundreds of millions of people to get out of poverty and expanding different forms of South-South Cooperation (SSC). As underlined by the 2013 Human Development Report published by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the growing group of Middle-Income Countries (MICs) has benefitted from economic growth, greater trading opportunities, as well as increasingly sophisticated information and communication technologies. Countries such as China, India and Brazil but also Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey are now proof of a multipolar world in which the MICs have an accumulated capital of experiences and solutions on how to promote sustainable human development. The publication at hand is embedded in this dynamic global context and provides a first account of the different ways through which the UN supports Mexico’s South-South Cooperation (SSC). As one of the first joint country-level analyses of UN SSC activities in the Latin American region, it identifies elements to improve both the scale and quality of this multilateral effort.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sebastian Haug•  11  United Nations, Unesco, United Nations Development Programme, MexicoUNESCO Science Report 2010: The Current Status of Science around the WorldThe Arab world stretches from the Indian Ocean in the East to the Atlantic Ocean in the West. Twenty Arab countries occupy the southern and eastern shores of the Mediterranean and border the Red Sea. It is an area of historical... moreThe Arab world stretches from the Indian Ocean in theEast to the Atlantic Ocean in the West. Twenty Arabcountries occupy the southern and eastern shores of theMediterranean and border the Red Sea.It is an area of historical importance, as it is the birthplaceof the world’s three Abrahamic religions. For centuries, theregion was a hub of groundbreaking science. It is ofcontemporary strategic importance owing to its locationand a wealth of subterranean natural resources, essentiallyin the form of oil and natural gas – 32% of the world’sknown natural gas reserves are to be found in the region –as well as phosphate: Morocco alone possesses more thanhalf of the world’s reserves.The region encompasses remarkable cultural similarities aswell as highly distinct political and economic systems with aheterogeneous social fabric. Its peoples share a commonalityof language, history and religion but their societies are atvariance in terms of natural wealth, governance, currency,traditions and socio-economic systems.The period since the UNESCO Science Report 2005appeared has been one of mixed fortunes for Arabcountries. The region has witnessed continuing politicalupheaval and military conflict in the Gaza Strip and theWest Bank, Iraq, Lebanon and Sudan. The oil-exportingArab states of Kuwait, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Qatar,Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have enjoyed ashort-lived downpour of revenue resulting from the hikein international oil prices to a peak of more than US$ 140 abarrel in July 2008. Conversely, oil-importing countriessuch as Jordan, Tunisia and Morocco have faced fiscaldifficulties due to their mounting national energy bills, asituation compounded by the associated rise in the cost ofimported food commodities.The subsequent plummet in oil prices, which fell to aboutUS$ 40 by the end of 2008 before recovering slightly in2009, has brought this exceptional situation to an end.It has also highlighted the volatility of oil prices and theneed for Arab oil-exporting countries to diversify theireconomies in future.Notwithstanding these difficulties, the same period alsowitnessed renewed interest on the part of many Arabcountries in reinvigorating science and technology (S&T)and higher education, with the launch of a number of topdowninitiatives to support education and research. Someof these will be highlighted in the present chapter. Ahandful of countries have also approved plans to allocatemore resources to research and development (R&D),among them Egypt, Tunisia and Qatar.The current global economic recession may not affectArab states in the immediate term, as the banking sectorin the majority of Arab states is highly regulated and onlyloosely linked to international money markets. However,the economic fallout will ultimately be felt by all,negatively affecting foreign direct investment flowing intoArab countries and real estate markets. This will cause aslowdown in economic growth and a rise inunemployment in the region. Arab countries reliant onexporting goods and services to the USA and EuropeanUnion (EU) and those that normally receive aid from thesequarters may suffer. Even before the economic recessionemerged in the last quarter of 2008, unemployment in theArab world was higher than in any other part of the world,at around 12%. Young job-seekers constitute over 40% ofthe region’s unemployed (UNESCWA, 2007).Despite the international economic uncertainty, Arabstates will have no choice but to stimulate science,technology and innovation (STI), together with theeducation sector, if only to overcome some lingeringproblems like food, water and energy insecurity. Arabcountries can also learn from the remarkable socioeconomicprogress of countries such as Brazil, China,India, Malaysia and Mexico, due in part to S&T.Save to LibraryDownloadby Moneef R Zou'bi PhD•  13  Science Policy, Water, Higher Education, History of ScienceHeritage sites, emerging markets. The case of textile industry in Luang Prabang, Lao PDRUnesco’s policies related to World Heritage Sites do not only impinge on buildings, urban structures or natural and urban spaces but on the entire ‘ecology of relations’ between humans, places, objects and materials. It has in particular... moreUnesco’s policies related to World Heritage Sites do not only impinge on buildings, urban structures or natural and urban spaces but on the entire ‘ecology of relations’ between humans, places, objects and materials. It has in particular an effect on economic activities associated with heritage management and tourism. Based on an ethnographical approach, this chapter examines the case of textile industry in the city of Luang Prabang (Lao PDR) listed in 1995 by virtue of its status as former royal capital renowned for its Buddhist culture and its vernacular architecture interwoven with French colonial influences. Taking examples from villages, market places, night bazaars and art galleries, it focuses on the reconfigurations that textile production, distribution and consumption have experienced over the last fifteen years in relation to the inscription of Luang Prabang as a Unesco world heritage site. It emphasizes notably the reallocation of textiles and spaces through various devices whether commercial, legal or even artistic that had been promoted and funded by international agencies in relation with local technical office linked to Unesco. In this context of renew opportunities that emerge not only at a local or regional scale but also at the national and international, it explores processes of cooperation and negotiation, and also rivalries and tensions that arise among individuals and commercial spaces dedicated to textiles, sometimes in relation to institutions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Annabel Vallard•  5  Anthropology, Cultural Heritage, Textiles, Laos (Lao PDR)Culture, platforms and machines (UNESCO)The impact of artificial intelligence on the diversity of cultural expressionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Octavio Kulesz•  5  Artificial Intelligence, Unesco, Culture, Cultural DiversityInternationaal Recht - De vernieling van cultureel erfgoed als oorlogsmisdaadSave to LibraryDownloadby Pauline Geentjens•  9  Cultural Heritage, International Law, International Criminal Law, International Criminal CourtIntroduction--Humanism In Ruins- Entangled Legacies of the Greek-Turkish Population Exchange.pdfThe principal legacy of the 1923 exchange is arguably its contribution to the institutionalization of the management of difference via forced migration—a form of spatial redistribution of different groups according to their backgrounds... moreThe principal legacy of the 1923 exchange is arguably its contribution to the institutionalization of the management of difference via forced migration—a form of spatial redistribution of different groups according to their backgrounds and “origins.” Informed by the principle of segregation, the 1923 exchange is organically related to other cases that operate with the same logic: the construction of walls, apartheids, partitions, and forced migrations. In the book, I conceptualize these dynamics as segregative biopolitics. The 1923 exchange signaled a modern fusion of the eugenicist logic with demography, mobilized through racialized thinking and statistics, and implemented as spatial segregation—all of which gained a legal framework in the international arena with the ratification and execution of the 1923 exchange. Against this backdrop, Humanism in Ruins offers a multi-sited analysis of how difference is regulated in refugee integration and in cultural politics in the post-1945 era. Considering the scale of atrocities of the Second World War, one might have expected that the underlying racialized logics, repertoires and archives of knowledge that contributed to the atrocities in the first place, such as eugenics and segregative biopolitics, would have been effectively put into question by the institutions established to find solutions to the postwar crises, such as refugee associations (particularly one that the book engages for the first time), or platforms founded to promote peace, such as the United Nations or UNESCO. Following the Second World War, however, population transfers again took place en masse across Europe and beyond in the name of securing peace and stability, generating a massive refugee crisis. The Greek-Turkish exchange constituted an important reference point for these population transfers as a story of "successful repatriation." Within this framework, the book addresses how despite major transnational efforts—spearheaded by UNESCO—to overcome scientific racialism and accompanying archives of knowledge that inform repertoires of cultural identification, the effort remained largely a limited one in the post-Second-World-War era. The book traces the implications of these limitations for the cultural policies developed over the last few decades through the case of Turkey—based on the legacies of the population exchange, as well as in the European Union and UNESCO. The book ultimately raises questions for the resurfacing of fascistic and racist discourses in different parts of the world today.Save to LibraryDownloadby Asli Igsiz•  20  Cultural Policy, Genealogy, Segregation, LiberalismInternational Handbook of Teachers Education Worldwide: Training, Issues and Challenges for Teachers ProfessionPublished a chapter as: [Al-Shammari, Z. (2010). Teacher Education in Kuwait. (Two Volumes of Book: English & Greek editions). In K. Karras, G.Mavroides & CC Wolhuter (Eds.). International Handbook of Teachers Education Worldwide:... morePublished a chapter as: [Al-Shammari, Z. (2010). Teacher Education in Kuwait. (Two Volumes of Book: English & Greek editions). In K. Karras, G.Mavroides & CC Wolhuter (Eds.). International Handbook of Teachers Education Worldwide: Training, Issues and Challenges for Teachers Profession. Nicosia: University of Nicosia Press and UNESCO Chair of Education, University of Cyprus. ISBN: for the set: 978-960-459-088-9, Volume 1: 978-960-459-089-6, and Volume 2: 978-960-459-090-2].Save to LibraryDownloadby Zaid Al-Shammari, Ph.D.•  3  Teacher Education, Unesco, KuwaitO ρόλος της UNESCO στον τομέα του πολιτισμούSave to LibraryDownloadby Dimitra Papanastasiou•UnescoEmilia Romagna Apennine Geopark project Report to UNESCO Global GeoparksThe report aims to support the application to the Geoparks Network with the information required.Save to LibraryDownloadby sara gentilini and +1Stefano Sozzi•  6  Unesco, Geoparks, Emilia Romagna, Emilia Romagna Geopark projectInternational Council for Health, Physical Education, Recreation, Sport and Dance (ICHPER-SD): partnering ACHPER. The Australian Council for Health, Physical Education and Recreation (ACHPER)’s National Strategy (2014-2016) lists four strategic priorities, which includes; ‘to identify and promote broader ACHPER collaborations and partnerships’. The... moreThe Australian Council for Health, Physical Education and Recreation (ACHPER)’s National Strategy (2014-2016) lists four strategic priorities, which includes; ‘to identify and promote broader ACHPER collaborations and partnerships’. The International Council for Health, Physical Education, Recreation, Sport and Dance (ICHPER-SD) shares vision and purpose with ACHPER and PENZ (Physical Education New Zealand), specifically with an international focus. Hence, ACHPER, PENZ and ICHPER-SD, working in collaboration, compliment and strengthen one another in promoting active and healthy living, as evidenced throughout history.The umbrella international organisation ICHPER was first conceived in 1950, and officially founded in Rome, Italy in 1958. The theme of the first ICHPER world congress was ‘Child Health and the School’. There have since been 36 world congresses, 32 regional congresses and numerous forums, conferences and symposia. The ICHPER name was extended to include ‘Sport’ and ‘Dance’ (ICHPER-SD) in Yokohama, Japan in 1993. The latest congress, the 56th ICHPER-SD Anniversary World Congress & Exposition was recently held in Bahrain (December, 2014). ACHPER was formally known as Australian Physical EducationAssociation (APEA) and the name change was a direct result of the ICHPER-SD first and only world congress to be held in Oceania (Sydney, 1970). Some may remember theICHPER-SD (Oceania) first Regional congress, held in Wellington, NZ in 2006. The title of the 1970 Sydney world congress was 'New Endeavours in Physical Education, Health Education and Recreation', it was of international significance, the best attended conference in the history of APEA and a milestone for ‘Health, Physical Education and Recreation’ (Kirk & Macdonald, 1998). Proud ACHPER member and ICHPER-SD Vice-President(representing Oceania region), Dr. Timothy Lynch, shares the strong history, direction and opportunity for working collaboratively with one of the oldest, largest and most prestigious international umbrella organisations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Timothy  Lynch•  20  Early Childhood Education, Unesco, Well-Being, HealthThe United Nations and Goodwill AmbassadorsExecutive Summary: The United Nations has a long history of engaging the public through prominent celebrity Goodwill Ambassadors who advocate for various organizational goals. The overarching goals of organizational partnerships with... moreExecutive Summary: The United Nations has a long history of engaging the public through prominent celebrity Goodwill Ambassadors who advocate for various organizational goals. The overarching goals of organizational partnerships with celebrities involve attracting the attention of the public (and influencing the public sphere) to promote United Nations program values and objectives. Within the past decade, Information Communication Technologies (ICTs) have greatly enhanced Goodwill Ambassador programs and the capabilities of their communication strategies.Although communication strategies for Goodwill ambassadors are multifaceted and vary by program sector, they share the broad objectives of maximizing publicity that simultaneously promote both the United Nations program and celebrity diplomat; Celebrity diplomacy is a convenient strategy for the United Nations because it can be employed without uproar for impact research. Even though the ideological motivations of international organizations might be unclear, celebrities are convenient tools for promoting the universality that the United Nations embodies.The increased use of celebrity Goodwill Ambassadors does come with drawbacks for United Nations programs. Media attention on celebrity advocates overshadows the communication objectives of United Nations organizations. In order to enhance the impact of the Goodwill Ambassador, communication strategies involving social media should be emphasized in order to meet the goals and objectives of UNICEF, UNESCO and UN women programs. Using Goodwill Ambassadors in social media campaigns can have the dual benefit of increased engagement with civil society and the public sphere along with meeting fundraising goals.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jason  Muirragui•  6  United Nations, Unesco, Information Communication Technology, UNICEFNextLast »Related TopicsUNESCO world heritageFollowFollowingPatrimoine Mondial (Culturel Et Naturel)FollowFollowingCultures Et CommunicationFollowFollowingWorld Cultural HeritageFollowFollowingCultural HeritageFollowFollowingHeritage StudiesFollowFollowingCultural Heritage ManagementFollowFollowingIntangible Cultural Heritage (Culture)FollowFollowingIntangible cultural heritageFollowFollowingMuséologieFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023