Government Offices | National | National
172 captures
30 Jun 2005 - 06 Oct 2011
May
JUN
Jul
06
2008
2009
2010
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20090606073647/http://www.gos.gov.uk:80/national/
What we do
  Children and Young People
  Culture and Leisure 
  Economy
  Education and Skills
  Environment and Rural
  European Funding
  Fact Files
  Local Government
  Community Safety
  People and Sustainable Communities
  Planning
  Preparing for Emergencies
  Public Health
  Transport
  Our Network
Home
News
About Us
Publications
Contact Us
A to Z
Help
Welcome to the Government Office Network 
We are working to transform lives and places by: - 
acting for Government in our regions and localities 
acting for our regions and localities in Government 
building partnerships and delivering in partnership
As a Network we provide a base of policy experts from across government. We specialise in knowing and understanding the regions and aim to ensure that government policies and programmes can be delivered effectively. 
We also identify local issues and feedback to influence emerging policy development. Government Offices (GOs) also have a key role in overseeing contingency planning, so Government can respond to large-scale emergencies in an integrated way.
This site contains general information on the work of the GO Network, drawing together national policies, news, and events across the regions. You can access the nine GO regions by using the map to the right, or any of the regional images across the top of the screen. Find out more about us here. 
We greatly value your feedback. Please email us at: rcuenquiries@goncs.gsi.gov.uk
What's happening nationally?
RCU becomes NCSThe Regional Co-ordination Unit (RCU) has been renamed to GO Network Centre and Services (GONCS). This move is part of our Transformation and change programme and follows a review of the role and structure of the RCU to support the delivery of a strong and networked organisation.
Real Help Now is a new website which signposts businesses and individuals facing the effects of the economic downturn to national sources of help, advice and support.
Regional ministers are supported by local Government Offices. They bring together key individuals and partners in the region to identify key challenges, and develop partnership approaches to address them. Regional ministers champion their regions locally and nationally. 
 
Find which region your City/Town is in:
item type
 
  Text Only  |  Print View
  Keyword Search
  
  
  Feedback on this page
  
  Go to Another Region
   East Midlands
   East of England
   London
   North East
   North West
   South East
   South West
   West Midlands
   Yorkshire and The Humber
 
   National
  Terms and Conditions | 
Privacy policy | 
Crown copyright | 
Site Map