  
Divali Nagar, City of Lights in Trinidad and Tobago By Raj Shah
18 captures
02 Dec 2019 - 05 Apr 2023
Nov
DEC
Aug
02
2018
2019
2021
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20191202233126/https://www.deshvidesh.com/divali-nagar-city-of-lights-in-trinidad-and-tobago-by-raj-shah/
Magazine
Classified
Advertising
Our Advertisers
Wedding Resources
Blog
Preferred Vendors
Contact Us
MagazineClassifiedAdvertisingOur AdvertisersWedding ResourcesBlogPreferred VendorsContact Us
Divali Nagar, City of Lights in Trinidad and TobagoPosted on: 09-28-2018 by: Deshvidesh 
By Raj Shah
Divali Nagar, City of Lights is an annual exposition of Hindu culture, and it is associated with the celebration of Diwali in Trinidad and Tobago. The idea of Divali Nagar was born in 1986 out of a concept enunciated by Hans Hanoomansingh, then President of the National Council of Indian Culture and was organized by a team of dedicated individuals, such as Rampersad Parasram, the first chairman of Divali Nagar.
The event be­came so pop­u­lar, the original venue was no longer large enough to house the crowd. The Na­tion­al Coun­cil of In­di­an Cul­ture (NCIC) lob­bied for the Na­gar’s per­ma­nent home to be lo­cat­ed along Uri­ah But­ler High­way. Presently, the exposition is hosted in the borough of Chaguanas. In three decades, the Na­gar has be­come part of the cul­tur­al land­scape that has served to educate peo­ple who have lit­tle knowl­edge about Hinduism. The event also en­cour­ages new gen­er­a­tions of Hin­dus to strength­en their faith.
The Divali Nagar celebration in Trinidad and Tobago is the largest celebration outside of India. Over nine days, more than 300,000 visitors attend this event. It is the most significant Indian cultural event of the Trinidad and Tobago as well as throughout the entire Caribbean. The event has set a trend in that now South Florida and other places in the US have Divali Nagars of their own.
Festivities usually begin one week prior to the annual Diwali day holiday and finishes the night before Diwali. The event concludes with extensive fireworks show on the final night.
Emphasis has been given to the several cultural and religious parts of the program every year and the enormous positive impact it has had in Trinidad and the Caribbean as well as the diaspora living abroad.
Over the last few years, the exposition of Hindu Culture at the Divali Nagar has expanded with significant improvement. The celebration is annually undertaken with a theme depicting an aspect of Hindu philosophy. There are various displays that are selected to educate the visitors on the theme. Mahatma Gandhi and Swami Vivekananda were two of the most popular themes over the years. A huge statue of the Swami Vivekananda was erected on the compound and for years it brings great inspiration to visitors.
In 2016, the theme was Gan­ga Maa, which fo­cus­ed on the god­dess of the Riv­er Gan­ga (Ganges). In 2017, the theme was Hindu Symbolism. This year’s theme is Hindu Reformers.
This sacred festival brings all within the community positive feelings and is marked by unity, harmony, and festivity. It is observed and celebrated as a national holiday and unifies multi-religious, multi-cultural and multi-ethnic Indo-Caribbeans living in Trinidad and Tobago.
The Divali Nagar site is used during the year for educational seminars, Indian Arrival Day festivities, religious festivities, trade exhibition and wedding receptions.
 
Photos Courtesy
Dr Kumar Mahabir
About Raj Shah
A software engineer by profession, Indian culture enthusiast, ardent promoter of Hinduism, and a cancer survivor, Raj Shah is a managing editor of Desh-Videsh Magazine and co-founder of Desh Videsh Media Group. Promoting the rich culture and heritage of India and Hinduism has been his motto ever since he arrived in the US.
He has been instrumental in starting and promoting several community organizations such as the Indian Religious and Cultural Center and Hindu University of America South Florida Chapter. He serves as a chairman of Board of International Hindu University. Raj has written two books on Hinduism titled Chronology of Hinduism in which he has documented the rich history of the world’s oldest religion, and Understanding Hinduism – The Basic Facts about Hinduism and Frequently Asked Questions. He has also written three children books, We love Diwali, Holi Hai and The Complete Ramayan in 100 Tweets.
 Categories: Festival of India, Hinduism, Raj Shah, Religion 
Share this:
 e-Magazine
  
    
Magazine 
Past Issues
E-Magazines
Subscription
Order Back Issue
Classified 
Submit Classified
View Classifieds
Matrimonial Classified
Photo Gallery 
Photo Gallery
Video Gallery
Advertising 
Advertising
Request Media Kit
Ad Sample Layout
E-Marketing
Payment
Download Media Kit
Upload File
Preferred Vendors 
View Preferred Vendors
Submit Listing
Blog 
Bollywood News
Community News
Cricket
Bollywood TV
Health & Fitness
Incredible Indians
India News
NRI News
Religion
Sports
Travel
 
About Us
e-newsletter
My Shadi Bridal Expo
Yellow Pages
Visa Assistance
Authors
Associations
Valedictorians Salutatorians
Distributors 
Writer Wanted
OnLine Store
Book Review
Movie News
Sign Up Newsletter 
Get our latest news by email
Hindu Resources 
Hindu Cremation
Hindu Temples
Hinduism News
Hindu Temples In USA
 
© Desh Videsh      Website Design & Develop By :  www.globalams.comIndian Magazine for Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina, USA
About Us