Malaysia lodges diplomatic protest against intrusion at Beting Patinggi Ali - The Rakyat Post - The Rakyat Post
42 captures
29 Sep 2015 - 09 Jul 2023
Aug
SEP
Feb
29
2014
2015
2016
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20150929024442/http://www.therakyatpost.com/news/2015/08/15/malaysia-lodges-diplomatic-protest-against-intrusion-at-beting-patinggi-ali/
Close
Share
Up
NEXT STORY: ‘Moderate voices needed to counter racial, religious extremism in Malaysia’ 
PREVIOUS STORY: ‘Illegal immigrants bring in leprosy’ 
The Rakyat Post  
News
PUBLISHED: Aug 15, 2015 7:20pm
Malaysia lodges diplomatic protest against intrusion at Beting Patinggi Ali
 
Source: Bernama 
Minister in the Prime Minister's Department, Datuk Seri Shahidan Kassim says intrusion by foreign ships in the waters near Beting Patinggi Ali began two years ago and the incident is still going on now. — TRP file pic
Adjust Font Size:
ALOR STAR, Aug 15, 2015:
Malaysia will continue to send diplomatic protests against the intrusion of Chinese coast guard ships in Malaysian waters near Beting Patinggi Ali, Sarawak, said Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, Datuk Seri Shahidan Kassim today.
Shahidan, who is in charge of the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency (MMEA) and the National Security Council (NSC), said the republic’s ships had been in Malaysian waters for more than two years.
“We have never received any official claims from them (China) and they said the island (Beting Patinggi Ali) belongs to them but the country is 400,000km away.
“We are taking diplomatic action but in whatever approach, they have to get out of our national waters,” he told reporters after opening the Alor Star Wanita Umno division meeting today.
Beting Patinggi Ali is located only about 90 nautical miles from the shore of Miri.
Shahidan said the government had been sending diplomatic notes each week to protest against the intrusion of foreign ships found near Beting Patinggi Ali.
In June, Shahidan and senior officers from the Malaysian navy, MMEA and NSC made a survey by air against the intrusion of Chinese coast guard ships at Beting Patinggi Ali.
Shahidan, who is also Umno Supreme Council member, said intrusion by foreign ships in the waters near Beting began two years ago and the incident was still going on now.
Nonetheless, he said the government was working through diplomatic channels to ensure the foreign ships leave Malaysian waters.
“No parties should try to trespass the territorial right of this country,” he said, adding that the presence of foreign ships in national waters should not have happened.
Tags Chinese ships Intrusion Shahidan Kassim
How does this story make you feel?
Happy 18%Sad 5%Angry 36%Shocked 14%Nothing 27% 
Share article
Share this
Tweet this
Send to email
PREVIOUS STORY: ‘Illegal immigrants bring in leprosy’ 
NEXT STORY: ‘Moderate voices needed to counter racial, religious extremism in Malaysia’ 
EN English
English
Chinese
Malay
ENPartners
TRENDING
‘Picture of Najib addressing empty UN hall is fake’
26 Sep 2015, 06:09PM
Avoid Jalan Alor area, U.S. embassy advises its citizens
25 Sep 2015, 12:09AM
Kazakh Muslim leader proposes sex tax
19 Sep 2015, 02:09PM
Man slaps imam at Masjid Negara during Friday prayers
18 Sep 2015, 03:09PM
‘I applied to run a business in Petaling Street 10 years ago, but was denied permission’
17 Sep 2015, 06:09PM
•
•
•
•
•
 
LATEST CONTENT
RAKYAT TV
TRP Heroes: Hasan wants to keep his deceased friend’s legacy alive
 
Share : 
 
LETTERS...RAKYAT
Malaysia’s Internet: Not in dire straits but could be better
columnists
Afghan Taliban seize Kunduz city centre in landmark gain
QUOTE OF THE DAY
“Regarding the yellow shirts (Bersih 4), I have no problem, but apart from demonstrating about economy, justice and fair elections, they were asking the Prime Minister to resign. This is a problem because they must know that the PM was elected through a general election. As for the red shirt rally (Himpunan Rakyat Bersatu), even though it was a legal assembly, there were irresponsible people who created racism through their speeches and posters.”
Minister in the Prime Minister's Department Datuk Paul Low Seng Kuan stating that the recent rallies had disrupted the nation's peace and harmony.
LEAVE US YOUR FEEDBACK
How do you like the new site
Leave your feedback here.
Have a story worth sharing?
Send us your details here.
 
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS
Copyright © 2015 The Rakyat Post
Terms of Use ›  
Privacy Policy ›  
Contact ›
Oops! We could not locate your form. Click to close