UCB Libraries | GovInfo | Trinidad and Tobago
29 captures
07 Apr 2008 - 01 Jul 2017
Jan
SEP
Nov
06
2011
2012
2013
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20120906080515/http://ucblibraries.colorado.edu:80/govpubs/for/trinidadtobago.htm
UCB Libraries
Ask Us: email | chat | phone
Chinook
Articles
Reserves
Research Guides
Site Search
Chinook Plus
Chinook Classic:
Title
Author
Keyword
Subjects
LC Call Number
Genre
Local Call #
Dewey Call #
SUDOC #
ISBN/SN/Contr #
OCLC #
 Search for articles using databases: Find Articles & More
Instructor
Course
Home
Find
Articles
Books and Media
Theses and Dissertations
Images
Data
Microform
Reserves
Using the Libraries
Hours
Manage: My Account
Connect: Off Campus Access / VPN
Borrow, Renew, Request: CU Materials
Borrow, Renew, Request: Non-CU Materials
Suggest: Library Purchases
Research Assistance
Meet: Your Librarian
Ask: Research Assistance
Ask: How do I ...?
Learn: Workshops and Seminars
Learn: Online Research and Subject Guides
Learn: Teaching Resources
Request: Media Duplication
Libraries & Collections
Norlin Library
  Archives
  Art & Architecture Collection
  East Asian Collection
  Government Information Library
  Juvenile Collection
  Periodicals Collection
  Popular Reading Collection
  Reference Collection
  Science Library
  Special Collections
  Video Collection
  Norlin Commons
  Norlin Floorplans
Branch Libraries
American Music Research Center
Business Library
Earth Sciences Library
Engineering, Math, Physics Library
Map Library
Music Library
University Libraries
CU Digital Library
Faculty and Staff Directories
Faculty Profiles
Friends of the Libraries
Jobs at the Libraries
Publishing and Rights
Support the Libraries
Libraries A to Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Government Information Library
govpubs@colorado.edu
  303-492-8834 (ph) 
  303-492-1881 (fx) 
  Norlin Library, Third Floor 
 
 
Home
Hours
About
Maps
Staff
Quick Sources 
Find articles & more
FDsys
Monthly Catalog  CU
USAGov
Web resources
A-Z Guides
Country Guides
GovInfo Databases
GovInfoBlog
Depository libraries (GoPIG) resources
 
University Libraries > Libraries & Departments  > Government Information > Foreign Information by Country >
Country background
Trinidad and Tobago 
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Trinidadian and Tobagonian Government Information
Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago  
Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago 
Central Statistical Office 
Department of Tourism 
Judiciary of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago 
Ministries Directory 
Ministry of Finance 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Ministry of National Security 
Ministry of Trade and Industry 
National Archives of Trinidad and Tobago 
National Library and Information System (NALIS)
Office of the Prime Minister 
Parliament of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago 
Tobago House of Assembly
Government Information | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Country Profiles
BBC News Profile - Trinidad and Tobago 
    A guide to history, politics and economic background of countries from BBC News.
CIA World Factbook - Trinidad and Tobago  
Country profile provides information on country background, geography, people, government, communications, transportation, military, and transnational issues. 
FAO and Trinidad and Tobago 
This page from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has information on economic and agricultural issues. It also has a good selection of maps.
Human Development Report on Trinidad and Tobago 
    Provides quick statistics on human development, economy, labor force, and population from the United Nations Development Programme. 
IAEA - Trinidad and Tobago 
    Country factsheet on 
    multilateral and safeguard agreements from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
IEA - Trinidad and Tobago  
Country information, energy-related statistics,  graphs and publications from the International Energy Agency (IEA). 
IMF - Trinidad and Tobago 
Country information, reports and publications from the International Monetary Fund. 
ITC - Trinidad and Tobago 
Country-specific trade and market profiles, map, and trade  statistics from the International Trade Centre (ITC). 
OHCHR - Trinidad and Tobago 
Country background, treaties, reporting status, calendar of events and publications related to human rights  from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner on Human Rights (OHCHR).
UNESCO Worldwide - Trinidad and Tobago  
    Highlights cooperation between the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and its Member States.
      
UNESCO Institute for Statistics - Trinidad and Tobago 
          A selection of national statistics on education, literacy, science and technology, culture, and communication. 
UNESCO Office for the Caribbean
Cluster Office representing UNESCO member and associate states in the Caribbean. Member States are Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas,  Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Saints Kitts and  Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent  and the Grenadines, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago. Associate Member  States are British Virgin Islands, Netherlands Antilles and Cayman  Islands.
UNESCO World Heritage - Trinidad and Tobago
          Cultural and natural heritage properties and documents on the World  Heritage List.
United Kingdom's Foreign and Commonwealth Office - Trinidad and  Tobago
Country profile covering history, politics, economy, human rights, relations with the UK, and travel.
UNdata - Trinidad and  Tobago
    Country overview, news, economy, environment, health and technology from the United Nations Cyberschoolbus. 
United Nations Statistics Division: Environment Snapshot - Trinidad and  Tobago
Country snapshots offer national environment statistics.
U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Statistics - Trinidad and  Tobago
    U.S. 
    trade in goods (imports, exports and balance) with Trinidad and  Tobago.
U.S. Commercial Service - Trinidad and  Tobago 
Country profile about doing business abroad by the Commercial Service, the global business solutions unit of the Department of Commerce. 
  
U.S. Commercial Service - Caribbean Region
      Regional profile about doing business in the Caribbean (Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahamas, Bermuda,
      British Virgin Islands,
      Curacao / Aruba,
      Dominican Republic, Guadeloupe, 
      Guyana, Jamaica, 
      Netherlands Antilles, St. Maarten,
      Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks, and Caicos Islands) by the Commercial Service, the global business solutions unit of the Department of Commerce.
U.S. Department of Energy - Trinidad and  Tobago
Country energy profile for production, consumption, U.S. oil imports, and CO2 emissions. 
Government Information | Country Profiles | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Articles and Databases 
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Declassified Documents 
Declassified information available from the FOIA Electronic Reading Room.
    
National Intelligence Council (NIC) Declassified Documents 
        Database of intelligence reports, National Intelligence Estimates, and other  publications produced by the National Intelligence Council or its predecessor organizations, the Office of National Estimates and the Office of Reports and Estimates since 1946.
Congressional Research Service (CRS) Reports CU 
    The Congressional Research Service (CRS), the research arm of Congress,   prepares reports (usually under 20 pages long) on topics of interest to members of Congress. Enter "Trinidad and Tobago" as the search term.
Declassified Documents Reference System CU 
    Search this database to find declassified documents related to Trinidad and Tobago. 
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)
    Department of Defense Scientific and Technical Reports Collection provides access to citations to unclassified unlimited documents that have been entered into DTIC's Technical Reports (TR) Database, as well as the electronic full-text of many of these documents. 
Digital National Security Archive CU 
    Database of primary declassified documents  regarding critical U.S.   policy decisions. 
Facts on International Relations and Security Trends (FIRST) 
    An integrated database containing information on armed conflicts and  peace keeping, arms production and trade, military expenditure, armed  forces and weapons.
Global Legal Information Network (GLIN)
  "Public database of official texts of laws, regulations, judicial  decisions, and other complementary legal sources contributed by  governmental agencies and international organizations."
Human Rights Watch - Trinidad and Tobago 
   News and reports related to human rights.
International Area Studies General CU
    Collection of general databases from the University of Colorado covering international issues.
International Area Studies Latin America CU
    Collection of databases from the University of Colorado covering Latin America. 
International Area Studies Statistics CU
    Collection of international statistics databases from the University of Colorado. 
PAHO/WHO Databases
    Regional Core Health Data Initiative Table Generator System from the Pan American Health Organization, a regional office of the World Health Organization.  Provides national health statistics and other data on the health situation in the Caribbean and North, Central, and South American countries.
UNdata 
        UNdata provides a single entry point  allowing users to search and download numerous statistical resources of the United Nations System. World dataBank 
    Contains data from the World Bank, including the World Development Indicators & Global Development Finance, Gender Statistics, Education Statistics, Health Nutrition and Population Statistics, African Development Indicators, Global Economic Monitor, and Millennium Development Goals. Users can select variables (some going as far back as 1960) to create customized tables, charts, maps, and reports.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Diplomatic Relations 
Diplomacy, Programs and Aid
CARICOM - Trinidad and Tobago  
    The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) was established by the Treaty of Chaguaramas in 1973. It is a regional organization dedicated to improving development, trade and economics, international competitiveness and economic leverage, coordination of foreign economic policies, and standards of living and work. 
Commonwealth of Nations - Trinidad and Tobago 
  "The Commonwealth is an association of 53 independent states  consulting and co-operating in the common interests of their peoples  and in the promotion of international understanding and world peace.  The Commonwealth's 2 billion citizens, about 30 per cent of the world's  population, are drawn from the broadest range of faiths, races,  cultures and traditions."
Embassy of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago in Washington, DC 
Diplomatic representation of Trinidad and Tobago in the United States. 
Embassy of the United States in Trinidad and Tobago  
    Diplomatic representation of the U.S. in Trinidad and Tobago. 
EU's Relations with Trinidad and Tobago 
Overview, country strategy, agreements, and documents on the European Union's relations with St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
G-77 at the United Nations
    The Group of 77 is an intergovernmental organization of developing states in the UN. It provides the means for the countries of the South to articulate  and promote their collective economic interests and enhance their joint  negotiating capacity on all major international economic issues within  the United Nations system, and promote South-South cooperation for  development. There are now 130 member states (including Trinidad and Tobago), although the name G-77 was retained because of its historical significance.
Inter-American Development Bank and Trinidad and Tobago 
Strategy, projects,and news about Trinidad and Tobago and the IADB. 
Permanent Mission of Trinidad and Tobago to the Organization of American States
"The OAS brings together the nations of the Western Hemisphere to strengthen  cooperation on democratic values, defend common interests and debate  the major issues facing the region and the world. The OAS is the  region's principal multilateral forum for strengthening democracy,  promoting human rights, and confronting shared problems such as  poverty, terrorism, illegal drugs and corruption."
Permanent Mission of Trinidad and Tobago to the United Nations
Website of member state missions and their representatives to the United Nations.
ReliefWeb - Trinidad and Tobago 
    ReliefWeb, administered by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), provides news, documents, maps, and background information on emergency assistance by country.
UNHCR  
        News, operations, statistics, background, analysis and policy, and maps from the  Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Select Trinidad & Tobago from the "Browse by country" drop-down menu on the right. 
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Trinidad and Tobago 
UNDP helps countries work toward human rights, democratic governance, poverty reduction, crisis prevention and recovery, energy and environment for sustainable development, and HIV/AIDS prevention. The Trinidad and Tobago country office also covers  Suriname,  Netherlands Antilles and Aruba.
United Nations Division for Sustainable Development - Trinidad and Tobago 
    Economic, social and environmental policies and plans for sustainable development from the UN Department Economic and Social Affairs.
USAID - Trinidad and Tobago
    United States Agency for International Development (USAID)  economic   and humanitarian assistance programs.
    
USAID - Caribbean  
        USAID Assistance in the Caribbean (Antigua & Barbuda, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Jamaica, St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent & the Grenadines, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago). 
U.S. Department of State - Trinidad and Tobago 
    U.S.-Trinidad and Tobago relations, humanitarian assistance, reconstruction, and country background notes.
      
Background Notes  - Trinidad and Tobago  
          Provides country background and  foreign policy information for the American public from the Department of State's Bureau of Public Affairs.
World Bank - Trinidad and Tobago
    World Bank data, projects, and research in Trinidad and Tobago.
World Trade Organization - Trinidad and Tobago
    Provides key information on trade statistics, WTO commitments, disputes, trade policy reviews, and notifications for member countries.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Health 
PAHO/WHO 
Official site of the Pan American Health Organization, a regional office of the World Health Organization. 
     
    
Country Health Profile - Trinidad and Tobago
        Information, health situation analysis, and statistics about countries in the Americas.
UNAIDS - Trinidad and Tobago
    Country situation analysis and news from the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.
WHO - Trinidad and Tobago
    Information and statistics on the status of public health in Trinidad and Tobago from the World Health Organization (WHO).
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Peacekeeping and Military Information 
Trinidad and Tobago: Security Assistance
Country-by-country listing provides information on Political-Military-administered security assistance funds from the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Related Topics
Resources in the Catalog 
The Library Catalog, Chinook
There are numerous secondary, federal, and international sources of information on Trinidad and Tobago available in the
     collection.
     Try these searches to see some of the resources in Chinook, the library catalog:
  
Electronic Resources
Print and Electronic Resources
trinidad and tobago and econom*
trinidad and tobago and econom*
trinidad and tobago and histor*
trinidad and tobago and histor*
trinidad and tobago and politic*
trinidad and tobago and politic*
trinidad and tobago (government publications only)
trinidad and tobago (government publications only)
     The * replaces up to five characters in a word.
For additional foreign information, arranged by subject, see the Subject Page.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog
Related Topics 
Foreign Relations and International Aid
 
Contact University Libraries: email |  chat |  phone                       
    
    University Libraries, 184 UCB, 1720 Pleasant Street, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309-0184
    Libraries Information 303-492-8705 | Research Assistance 303-492-7521
  © Regents of the University of Colorado  