Press Release – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
News
Category: Press Release 
 
Wikimania 2023 in Singapore centers on diversity, collaboration, and the future of free knowledge
Events Press Release Singapore Wikimania 
In its eighteenth edition, Wikimania, the flagship annual conference that celebrates Wikimedia projects like Wikipedia and the volunteers who make them possible, is set to take place in Singapore.
10 August 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
For third time, China blocks Wikimedia Foundation as permanent observer to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
Advocacy Press Release 
The Wikimedia Foundation was rejected for the third time from gaining accreditation as a permanent observer to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).
7 July 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation appoints new Chief Talent and Culture Officer and Chief Communications Officer
Leadership Press Release Wikimedia Foundation 
The Wikimedia Foundation today announced that Courtney Bass Sherizen will be joining as the new Chief Talent and Culture Officer, and Anusha Alikhan will become the Chief Communications Officer.
27 June 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikipedia’s new sound logo: Winner of The Sound of All Human Knowledge contest announced
Press Release Sound Logo 
The Wikimedia Foundation, the nonprofit that operates Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects, announced the winner of its global Sound of All Human Knowledge contest, ending the search for a sound logo for Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects. 
28 March 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation blocked once again by China for accreditation to World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
Advocacy China Free Knowledge Press Release 
Yesterday, the Wikimedia Foundation was rejected for accreditation to the World Intellectual Property Organization’s (WIPO) Standing Committee on Copyright and Related Rights (SCCR). The accreditation was once again blocked by China, marking the fourth time that China has raised objections to the Wikimedia Foundation and Wikimedia affiliate groups participating in WIPO.
14 March 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Stephen LaPorte becomes the new General Counsel for the Wikimedia Foundation
Leadership Legal Press Release 
The Wikimedia Foundation announced Stephen LaPorte as General Counsel. Stephen was previously Deputy General Counsel at the Foundation; he has held several leadership roles in the Legal department, covering a range of legal issues including copyright, trademarks, governance, and public policy.
28 February 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
U.S. Supreme Court Declines to Hear Wikimedia Foundation’s Challenge to NSA Mass Surveillance
Advocacy Legal Press Release Wikimedia v. NSA 
 The U.S. Supreme Court today denied the Wikimedia Foundation’s petition for review of its legal challenge to the National Security Agency’s (NSA) “Upstream” surveillance program. Under this program, the NSA systematically searches the contents of internet traffic entering and leaving the United States, including Americans’ private emails, messages, and web communications.
21 February 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Enterprise announces Google and Internet Archive as its first customers; allows new customers to self sign-up for free trials
Press Release Wikimedia Enterprise 
Wikimedia Enterprise announced its first customers: multinational technology company Google and nonprofit digital library Internet Archive. Wikimedia Enterprise was recently launched by the Wikimedia Foundation as an opt-in product.
21 June 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation appoints new Vice President of Communications, Vice President of Product Design
Press Release Technology 
8 October 2021, San Francisco, California — The Wikimedia Foundation today announced the appointment of two new Vice Presidents: Anusha Alikhan as Vice President of Communications, and Margeigh Novotny as Vice President of Product Design. The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia and other free knowledge projects. With this news, both Anusha….
8 October 2021
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation Appoints Maryana Iskander as Chief Executive Officer
Press Release 
14 September 2021, San Francisco, California — Today, the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation announced the appointment of Maryana Iskander as the organization’s new CEO. She is a globally recognized social entrepreneur and an expert in building cross-sector partnerships that combine innovative technology with community-led solutions to close opportunity gaps.   As CEO of….
14 September 2021
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
1
2
3
Older 
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.