The Malaysian Bar - PRESS STATEMENT: Malaysia a secular State
27 captures
23 Feb 2008 - 09 Jul 2023
Mar
DEC
Aug
28
2012
2018
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Archive Team
 Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history.
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations.
The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs.
This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. 
Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find.
The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. 
Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler
  ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites).
To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently.
There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com.
ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20181228154440/http://www.malaysianbar.org.my/press_statements/press_statement_malaysia_a_secular_state.html
Friday
 
Transmenu powered by JoomlArt.com - Mambo Joomla Professional Templates Club 
HomeAbout UsDirectoriesNews/NoticesLawsResourcesCalendar of EventsPublic AwarenessLinksFAQsContact UsAdvertise
 
 
Home  News/Notices  News  Press Statements    PRESS STATEMENT: Malaysia a secular State 
Sorry, but Javascript is not enabled in your browser!
PRESS STATEMENT: Malaysia a secular State
Wednesday, 18 July 2007 07:19pm
•
Groups: We are 
secular
• MCA: We are a 
secular nation
The statement made by the Deputy Prime Minister in 
this 50th year of Merdeka that Malaysia has never been a secular state is 
startling as it ignores the undisputed constitutional history of the country as 
well as the social contract by which the multi-racial and multi-religious people 
of this nation came together.
The Federal Constitution was a carefully thought out, 
carefully negotiated document that evolved after much debate and discussion. 
Some historical context is necessary. In 1956, Tunku Abdul Rahman had headed a 
Merdeka Mission to London to negotiate for independence. The negotiations were 
conducted by 4 representatives of the Malay Rulers, 4 representatives of the 
then Alliance Government and representatives of the British Government. The Reid 
Commission was then appointed to draft a constitution for independent Malaya. 
The Reid Commission held 118 meetings in Malaya. It met a wide cross-section of 
people and organisations and received 131 memoranda.
One of the striking features of the Reid Commission report 
and the Federal Constitution is the inter-communal compromises. These 
compromises were essentially the result of proposals set out in a memorandum by 
the then Alliance party which had in turn been vigorously debated over many 
months by a core group from UMNO, MCA, and MIC under Tunku’s chairmanship. The 
Alliance Memorandum referred to the issue of religion as follows:
“The religion of Malaya shall be Islam. The observance of 
this principle shall not impose any disability on non-Muslim nationals 
professing and practising their own religion, and shall not imply that the State 
is not a secular State.” (Emphasis added)
Subsequent to the issuance of the Reid Report, further reviews were carried out 
by a Working Party that again consisted of representatives from the Malay 
rulers, the Alliance party and the British Government. The Alliance party set up 
its own sub-committee chaired by its then deputy president, Datuk Abdul Razak. 
Again the Alliance maintained its position that they had no intention of 
creating a Muslim theocracy and that Malaya would be a secular State. A white 
paper subsequently issued by the British Government in June 1957 confirmed this 
by stating “This will in no way affect the present position of the Federation as 
a secular State”.
Since then Tunku himself, respected Academics, and our own Supreme Court in 1988 
have reiterated in one way or another that we are a secular State and not an 
Islamic State. Thus for more than 40 years (until 2001), no-one had suggested 
that Malaysia is an Islamic State.
One has to only look at the Articles in the Federal Constitution, our system of 
government and the administration of justice to know that we are not an Islamic 
State. The Civil Courts set up under the Constitution dispense secular justice 
on a daily basis to all the citizens of this country. Secular law governs 
contracts, commerce, international relations and trade and every aspect of the 
lives of a citizen. Islamic law governs specific matters set out in the Federal 
Constitution in relation to persons professing Islam. 
In the context of our history and the Constitution itself that proclaims its 
supremacy, it is the Bar Council’s view that there is no doubt whatsoever that 
Malaysia is a secular state and not an Islamic state. It is noteworthy that the 
Prime Minister in his speech delivered at the conference yesterday and in his 
propagating Islam Hadhari has never referred to Malaysia as an Islamic State.
It is time that the proposition that Malaysia is not secular, 
(which is a rewriting of the Constitution), be put to rest once and for all and 
that there is due recognition and reaffirmation of the clear legal and 
constitutional position that Malaysia is, and has always been, a secular State.
Ambiga Sreenevasan
President
Malaysian Bar
18 July 2007
   Set as favourite     Share     Email This   
Facebook
del.icio.us
Digg
Furl
Yahoo! My Web
StumbleUpon
Google Bookmarks
Technorati
reddit
 
We are sorry, for registered members only.
 
Comments (4)
Subscribe to this comment's feed
STILL A SECULAR STATE!
written by Stephen Tan Ban Cheng, 
Wednesday, July 18 2007 08:33 pm
Ours is a parliamentary democracy, warts and all notwithstanding. And there are many warts to speak of, one of which is the consistent gerrymandering of parliamentary and state-level constituencies that has taken place since Merdeka nearly fifty years ago.  If a mere declaration of a serving prime minister or a deputy prime minister - all Members of Parliament are sworn to uphold the Constitution, mind you - can turn our State into an Islamic State, then let us dismantle our Parliament. Let us be done with the charade.  Right now, absent Parliament's amendment of the Constitution, ours is a secular State.  As a lawyer friend, since dead, once said rightly, "Without the Tunku, there would not have been a Federation of Malaya."  Pray hard that in the interests of all citizens and their children and grandhicldren, our blessed country will not descend into a failed State.  Stephen Tan Ban Cheng
Time to come clean.
written by Andrew Khoo, 
Wednesday, July 18 2007 09:20 pm
Sometime after that fateful day when the then Prime Minister Dato' Seri Dr. Mahathir declared that Malaysia was an Islamic State, I am given to understand that there was a meeting between him and certain leaders of the non-Muslim religions, who were of course alarmed by the declaration. Certain matters were discussed, and the then PM gave certain explanations/reasons for his declaration. If indeed such a meeting did take place, and because of this on-going controversy as to whether Malaysia is an Islamic State (which she is not), I believe the time has come for (now) Tun Dr. Mahathir or someone else who was present at the meeting to come clean and disclose to the Malaysian public what exactly was said by Tun Dr. Mahathir to assure the leaders of the non-Muslim religions who attended the meeting. Only then can this issue be put to rest once and for all.   Andrew Khoo
WHAT DR M HAS TO SAY IS 'IRRELEVANT'
written by Stephen Tan Ban Cheng, 
Wednesday, July 18 2007 10:42 pm
My dear Andrew Khoo  What former prime minister Tun Dr Mahathir is going to say is, to borrow a famous phrase "irrelevant." He was the one who first made the declaration.  As an experienced parliamentarian and as a prime minister, he should have known better. He never saw it fit to operate within the bounds of moderation.  I am still wondering why the DAP did not propose a motion to cut his salary by RM10. I recall the DAP trying to make political capital out of the declaration when the leaders, being lawyers, know better than to lay politics on something as fundamental as this. The DAP went on a street campaign instead.  Stephen Tan Ban Cheng
Perception!
written by Cheah Choo Kheng, 
Thursday, July 19 2007 01:45 pm
My dear Ban Cheng,  It is a question of perception. One at times need to perceive according to the audience and  one's survival value.   Cheah Choo Kheng
 
Write comment
You must be logged in to post a comment. Please register if you do not have an account yet.
 
 
< Prev
 
Next >
[ Back ]
Forum
Photos
Jobs
Polls
Shop
Law Firms
Public Awareness
2019 Sijil Annual ApplicationClick the link above for details on how to apply for your Sijil Annual and Practising Certificate 2019.  All applications must be made online through the Bar Council's online portal. No hard copies accepted.
2018 Sijil Annual ApplicationClick the link above for details on how to apply for your Sijil Annual and Practising Certificate 2018.  All applications must be made online through the Bar Council's online portal. No hard copies accepted.
2018 Malaysian Bar Payments Required Under the LPAClick the link above to download Circular 109/2018, which includes a payment guide and a set of Frequently-Asked-Questions.
Praxis (Oct–Dec 2017) Available for DownloadThe Oct-Dec 2017 issue of Praxis is available for download. Click the link above to download.
2018 Hotel Corporate RatesAttending seminars? Going for a holiday? Click on the link above to check out the list of hotel corporate rates for Members of the Bar, which is updated occasionally.
Borneo Rainforest Law Conference, Kota Kinabalu (17 Jan 2019)Organised by the Sabah Law Society, this conference will be held at 8:00 am to 5:40 pm, at Pacific Sutera Hotel Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, on 17 Jan 2019 (Thursday). Registration fee is RM300. For more details, click on the link above, or contact Clemintina Jaimin / Marcetha Manuel at 088-232 662.
LAWASIA Employment Law Forum 2019, Fiji (25 and 26 Jan 2019)Organised by LAWASIA, this forum — themed "Balancing Employment Law Rights & Obligations" — will be held at Sofitel Fiji Resort & Spa, Denarau Island, Fiji, on 25 and 26 Jan 2019 (Friday and Saturday).  Click on the link above to register, and for more information on travel, accommodation, and the conference programme.
Seminar on Current Issues Affecting Conveyancing Practice (Melaka | 28 Jan 2019)Organised by the Malacca Bar Committee, in collaboration with the Bar Council Conveyancing Practice Committee, this seminar will be held at 9:00 am to 6:00 pm, at Malacca Bar Auditorium, No 10, Jalan PPPS, Pusat Perniagaan Putra Sentosa, 75150 Bukit Baru, Hang Tuah Jaya, Melaka, on 28 Jan 2019 (Monday). Click on the link above for the pricing schedule and more details.
 
New login method: If first-time login, the password is your NRIC No. Call 20502191 for help.
NRIC No. *
Lost your Password?
 Remember Me
                
Password *
 
User ID 
 Password  
Forgot Firm Username/Password?
No User ID/Password for firm?  Click here for more information. 
           We have 49 guests and 11 members online            
Retain IPCMC Bill drafted by RCI, government urgedUnjust & Unwanted: Malaysia's Mandatory Death Penalty
Latest News/Articles
Other news
Most Commented
The Malaysian Bar vs. The Attorney General of Malaysia & The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission: The Moment the Malaysian Bar Stood Up for the Key Institutions of State
Practising without a Practising Certificate after 31 Dec 2018
Bar Council Library Update (24 Dec 2018) 
Press Release | Implement Measures to Uphold Rights of Migrants
Early Closure of the Bar Council Secretariat and Library on 31 Dec 2018 (Monday)
Press Release | Summon the Moral Courage to Uphold Human Rights for All
List of Members without Sijil Annual/Practising Certificate for 2018 as at 29 Nov 2018
What do you need at Mid-Level Practice?
Bar Council–MyCC Conference on Challenges in Enforcing Competition Law in Malaysia and Possible Reform (27 Nov 2018)
Introductory Remarks by YBhg Dato’ Seri Mohd Hishamudin Md Yunus, Chairman, MyCC | Conference on Challenges in Enforcing Competition Law and Possible Reform (Bar Council, 27 Nov 2018)
Welcoming Address by Abdul Fareed Abdul Gafoor, Vice-President, Malaysian Bar | Conference on Challenges in Enforcing Competition Law in Malaysia and Possible Reform (Bar Council, 27 Nov 2018)
Don’t break your promise, Pakatan told after ‘oppressive’ laws allowed for use
Press Release | Reinstate Moratorium on Use of Repressive Laws as First Step Towards Repeal
Cyber Laws Cases
Information Technology and Cyber Laws Committee [2018/2019] | List of Members
Applause in court: farewell to Lord Judge, the judge's judge
Minister: Study proposal on switch to Syariah law thoroughly (69 comments)Siri Pemikiran Kritis (Segmen Pertama), Sessi Pertama (36 comments)Federal Court dismisses Lina Joy's appeal (35 comments)OPINION: Why I support the LPA amendments (31 comments)Video links CJ to 'appointment fixing' scandal (29 comments)Amaran kepada MCA (27 comments)Judge gives lawyer dressing-down over attire (26 comments)2008 Bar Council Subscription (24 comments)Penang Bar passes resolution on SRO Enforcement (23 comments)OPINION: LPA Amendments - "Stupid is as stupid does" (Forrest Gump) (22 comments) 
Latest Forum Posts
Latest Events
Bar Calendar
Serve a Judgment to a company by MUHAMMAD NAJIB BIN ROHIMHow to enforce money judgment of Court of Appeal by FRANCIS TAN JENG LOKRe:AMENDED CAVEAT FORM - BM VERSION by Chow Keng ChinRe:AMENDED CAVEAT FORM - BM VERSION by NURUL SYAFIQA BINTI MOHD IDRISRe:application for consent to transfer and charge by NURADHILLA BINTI MAZLANapplication for consent to transfer and charge by SYAHIDA BINTI DZIARUDDINshow last 4hrs - 24hrs 
                There are no upcoming events currently scheduled.View Full Calendar 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Latest Documents
Most Downloaded
Most Read
 The Malaysian Bar vs. The Attorney General of Malaysia & The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Circular No 304/2018 | Practising without a Practising Certificate after 31 Dec 2018 Circular No 303/2018 | Seminar on How Not to be a Statistic: The Conveyancing Scam  Circular No 302/2018 | Seminar on Avoiding the Quicksand of Divorce (26 Jan 2019) Circular No 301/2018 | Assistance for Members Who Cease Practice | Storing and/or Returning Files Circular No 300/2018 | Early Closure of the Bar Council Secretariat and Library on 31 Dec 2018 Circular No 299/2018 | Implementation of the E-Review Module in the High Court (Commercial) Circular No 298/2018 | Expanding the Horizons of Your Practice: Malaysian Bar Legal Market Visit Circular No 297/2018 | Invitation to the Opening of the Legal Year 2019 Ceremony (11 Jan 2019) Pekeliling Nombor 296/2018 | Kursus Kepeguaman Sivil (Kuala Lumpur | 23 dan 24 Febuari 2019) 
 Rules of Court 2012 (184885) SRO 2005 (English) (outdated version) (164035) Caveats (93196) Sample Letter of Complaint / Registration Form to lodge a Complaint (80192) Redbook pamphlet (English) (75001) RED BOOK: Know Your Rights (English) (74447) Redbook pamphlet (Malay) (72281) BUKU MERAH: Polis Dan Hak-Hak Asas Anda (54920) Rakyat Guide 5 BM (50684) Redbook pamphlet (50577) 
Crisis in the Judiciary
Lina Joy v Majlis Agama Islam Wilayah Persekutuan & 2 Ors 2005 [CA]
LAW & REALTY: Tenancy Agreement
LAW & REALTY: Stamp duty payable
Video links CJ to 'appointment fixing' scandal
Malaysian Bar outraged by a woman detainee stripped naked and forced to do ear squats
Walk for Justice: "When lawyers walk, something must be very wrong"
Fawziah Holdings Sdn Bhd v Metramac Corporation Sdn Bhd 2005 [CA]
The Role of Public Interest Litigation In Promoting Good Governance in Malaysia and Singapore
Jeffrey Jessie: Recognising Transexuals by Honey Tan Lay Ean
Nazri launches the Red Book
Siri Pemikiran Kritis (Segmen Pertama), Sessi Pertama
OPINION: Do laws grind the poor, and rich men rule the law?
Judge gives lawyer dressing-down over attire
New kid on the blog: Dr Mahathir @ www.chedet.com
 
Latest Jobs
Latest Firm Adverts
Total Users
LEE KIAN HONG & PARTNERSMudzafar & CoNorendra & YapTan & AssociatesZAMAN TENG & CHANAkram Hizri Azad & AzmirKhoo Chai HarJeeva PartnershipChia, Lee & AssociatesHS LIM & CO (PJ) 
 33127 registered
 6 today  14 this week  2121 this month  
Polls
CNN
BBC
MBar in News
Singapore_Law_Watch
      Amos Oz: Acclaimed Israeli author dies at 79
      New York awe-struck as sky over Queens turns blue
      Ukraine conflict: Russia completes Crimea security fence
      Tear gas used as Sudan protests continue
      British mail bosses criticised for D-Day stamp error
      Madagascar pochard: World's rarest bird gets new home
      Syria war: Pro-government forces 'enter Manbij' amid Turkey threats
      DR Congo election: EU condemns expulsion of envoy Bart Ouvry
      Huawei: China accuses UK of 'pride and prejudice'
      Bandersnatch: Netflix's interactive Black Mirror film puts viewers in control
      North Korea defector hack: Personal data of almost 1,000 leaked
      Angelina Jolie hints at move into politics
      Six arrested for killing, eating endangered langur monkey
      Gerrard confident Rangers will bring 'A-game' against Celtic
      Sanchez & Lukaku must 'do it themselves' - Solskjaer
cURL error 35: error:1407742E:SSL routines:SSL23_GET_SERVER_HELLO:tlsv1 alert protocol version
    ADVERTISE HERE 
 
 
 
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
 
 ©2002-2008 All Rights Reserved by Malaysian Bar Council,
      No. 13, 15 & 17, Leboh Pasar Besar, 50050 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
      Tel: +603-20502050 Fax: +603-20261313 Email: council@malaysianbar.org.my Terms
      of Use