Udmurt – BGN/PCGN transliteration system
Transliteration
Transliteration tools
What is transliteration?
Books
Contact us

Share:Twitter 
Facebook
Udmurt – BGN/PCGN transliteration system
Language:
Abkhaz
Adyghe
Altai
Armenian (eastern, classical)
Armenian (western)
Azerbaijani (Azeri)
Bashkir
Belarusian
Bulgarian
Carrier
Cherokee
Chuvash
Georgian
Greek
Ingush
Inuktitut
Japanese
Kazakh
Kyrgyz
Macedonian
Moldovan
Old Church Slavonic
Ossetian
Russian
Serbian
Tamazight
Udmurt
Ukrainian
Vai
Yakut
To Cyrillic script
To Latin script
Copy
Commercial links
аaбbвvгgдdеeёyoжzhӝdzhзzӟjиiӥïйyкkлlмmнnоoӧöпpрrсsтtуuфfхkhцtsчchӵtshшshщshchъ”ыyь’эeюyuяya 
CAPS
Udmurt virtual keyboard

The Udmurt virtual keyboard allows you to enter characters with a click of your mouse. There’s no need to change your keyboard layout anymore. The transliteration of each supported character is displayed on the right side of the character. You can then directly transliterate your text from one script to the other according to the selected transliteration system.
Language overview
Udmurt (удмурт кыл, transliterated as udmurt kyl), also known as Votyak, its name traditionally given by the Russians, belongs to the Uralic languages family, and more precisely to the Finno-Ugric languages family. Co-oficial language alongside Russian in Udmurtia, or the Udmurt Republic, located to the west of the Ural Mountains, the Udmurt language counts about 550,000 speakers. It is written in its present Cyrillic orthography since 1905.
Transliteration system: BGN/PCGN

The BGN/BGCN is a virtual committee formed by the United States Board on Geographic Names (BGN), which is a United States federal body, and the Permanent Committee on Geographical Names (PCGN), an independent inter-departmental body for the use of the British government. Both are aimed at establishing and maintaining uniform usage of geographic names, and their standards have been agreed upon by both party as a joint adoption.Specific rule
Е/e should be romanized Ye/ye word-initially, after a vowel, after Й, Ъ, Ь, and after the palatalizing consonants: Д, З, Л, Н, С and Т. It should be romanized E/e elsewhere.
Books
In English
In French
Udmurt
by Eberhard Winkler, editors LINCOM publishers  (2001)
 [ Amazon.com]
Votyak Folksongs
by Laszlo Vikar & Gabor Bereczki, editors Akademiai Kiado  (1990)
 [ Amazon.com]
Parlons oudmourte : Une langue finno-ougrienne - Un peuple d’Europe
by Jean-Luc Moreau, editors L’Harmattan  (2009)
 [ Amazon.com]
Udmurt links
Counting in Udmurt
BGN/PCGN romanization system for Udmurt (.pdf)
Other supported languages

The other supported languages are: Abkhaz, Adyghe, Altai, Armenian (eastern, classical), Armenian (western), Azerbaijani (Azeri), Bashkir, Belarusian, Bulgarian, Carrier, Cherokee, Chuvash, Georgian, Greek, Ingush, Inuktitut, Japanese, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Macedonian, Moldovan, Old Church Slavonic, Ossetian, Russian, Serbian, Tamazight, Ukrainian, Vai, and Yakut.
 

    © 2009-2023 Mancko
    | Site map
    | Privacy policy
English | Español | Français | Português