  
    BBC Academy - Journalism - B  
      
 
     
 
  
      
 
42 captures
16 Aug 2014 - 26 Mar 2023
Sep
MAR
Jun
26
2016
2018
2019
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20180326162901/http://www.bbc.co.uk:80/academy/journalism/news-style-guide/article/art20130702112133551
          
             Accessibility links  Accessibility Help       BBC iD   
Notifications
   BBC navigation   Home   Home   News   News   Sport   Weather   Shop   Earth   Travel   Capital   iPlayer   Culture   Autos   Future   TV   Radio   CBBC   CBeebies   Food   iWonder   Bitesize   Travel   Music   Earth   Arts   Make It Digital   Taster   Nature   Local   Tomorrow's World  Menu     Search
Search the BBC
Search the BBC
        

Academy
 Journalism
 Production
 Academy
 Work in Broadcast
News
About
Courses
Contact

JournalismBack
Journalism home
18 language websites
18 language websitesBack
Arabic (عربی)
Burmese
Chinese - Simplified (简体)
Chinese - Traditional (繁體)
French
Hausa
Hindi (हिन्दी)
Indonesian
Kinyarwanda
Kirundi
Pashto (پښتو)
Persian (فارسی)
Russian (Pусский)
Swahili
Turkish (Türkçe)
Urdu (اردو)
Uzbek (Ўзбек)
Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)
Blog
BlogBack
Skills
SkillsBack
BBC Investigation Support
Digital journalism
Editing
Filming and recording
Interviewing 
Multimedia journalism
Picture editing
Presenting
Reporting
Researching and producing
Social media
Vulnerable contributors
Writing
Writing: The English language
BBC News style guide
BBC News style guideBack
Safety
SafetyBack
Subject Guides
Subject GuidesBack
Business and the economy
Devolution
European Union
Israel and the Palestinians
Military
Religion
Science
Sport
UK politics
Law
LawBack
Contempt
Copyright
Courts
Defamation
Privacy
Values
ValuesBack
Getting a job
Getting a jobBack
BBC staff only
BBC staff onlyBack
ProductionBack
Production home
Television
TelevisionBack
Directing
Lighting
Live broadcast
Post production
Producing
Production design
Production management
Scripting and writing
Self shooting
Sound
Specialist filming
Radio
RadioBack
Editing and sound design
Outside broadcast
Presenting
Producing
Production management
Proteus
Recording audio
Scripting
Specialist programmes
Online
OnlineBack
Content production
Design
Live programming
Multiplatform programming
Project management
Social media
Job hunting
Job huntingBack
The essentials
Getting in
Moving up
Freelancing
Ideas and research
Ideas and researchBack
Pitching and development
Research
Scripting and writing
Storytelling
Writing radio comedy
Danny Cohen's Creative Briefings
Podcasts
PodcastsBack
Television
Radio
Online
Jobs and careers
Ideas and research
Technology and innovation
AcademyBack
Technology Home
Broadcast technology
Broadcast technologyBack
File delivery
Loudness
Radio
Television
Drones
Working at the BBC
Software engineering
Software engineeringBack
Development practices
Infrastructure & distribution
Linked data & semantic web
Product management
Production systems
Tablets & mobile
BBC Digital Open Day 2015
For BBC Staff
For BBC StaffBack
Work in BroadcastBack
Work in Broadcast Home
Digital Cities Events 2017
Digital Cities Events 2017Back
Digital Cities: Birmingham
Digital Cities: Cardiff
Digital Cities: Glasgow
Digital Cities: North East
Make it Digital Traineeship: England & Northern Ireland
Make it Digital Traineeship: England & Northern IrelandBack
Trainee schemes & apprenticeships
Trainee schemes & apprenticeshipsBack
Journalism Trainee Scheme
Digital Journalist Apprenticeship
Engineering Trainee Scheme
Production Trainee Scheme
Extend
Engineering Apprenticeship
Production Apprenticeship
Apprentice Broadcast Operator scheme
Getting a job
Getting a jobBack
Who does what
Getting in
Apply for BBC jobs
Applications and interviews
Social media for your career
Moving up
Working life
Past events
Past eventsBack
Archived Event: Expert Voices: BAME Talent Days
Archived Event: BBC Get In 2014 & 2015
Archived Event: Women in Radio
Archived Event: Expert Women
Archived Event: Fast Train
Fusion: Past events
Leadership (for BBC staff only)
Leadership (for BBC staff only)Back
Health & Safety
Health & SafetyBack
Journalism
BBC News style guide
B
BA - (for British Airways) ie both caps. It should be used only after a first reference where the title is given in full...
 
BA
(for British Airways) ie both caps. It should be used only after a first reference where the title is given in full. The same abbreviation is used for Bachelor of Arts.
Baa-Baas
(rugby union) ie two words, both capped, hyphenated, no apostrophe. Acceptable abbreviation - but only after a first reference has spelled out The Barbarians.
Baath
(ruling party in Syria - and formerly in the late Saddam Hussein's Iraq) ie without an internal apostrophe.
babies/toddlers
A child up to 12 months can be described as a baby. A toddler is generally aged one or two.
Backbench
ie one word (eg backbench unrest, backbencher). But two words for back benches.
Bacteria
is a plural - the singular is bacterium. They cause food poisoning, cholera, typhoid etc, and may be treated with antibiotics. Not to be confused with viruses, which are smaller organisms - not susceptible to antibiotics - which cause influenza, measles, mumps, chicken pox, Aids etc. 
Bad news
is, like 'good news', a term never to be used unqualified, because it is subjective. A rise in interest rates is bad news for house-buyers, but good news for savers. Just say what has happened - and let the punters decide.
BAE Systems
And not 'BAe' (it is the former British Aerospace).
Bail/bale
Use bail for the temporary release of someone awaiting trial. To bail out is to help a company or person with financial problems (noun: bailout). Use bale out for removing water from a boat, or jumping out of a plane.
Balance of payments
is not the same as the trade balance, which involves only visible imports and exports. The balance of payments includes so-called invisibles: earnings from the City, international insurance, tourism etc.
Ban Ki-moon 
(former UN Secretary General) ie upper case 'B' and 'K', but lower case 'm' in Ki-moon hyphenated. Mr Ban at second reference. This style applies to all Korean names.
Bank holiday
ie lower case, unless a specific one (eg: the Spring Bank Holiday). Note that some bank holidays do not apply across the whole of the UK.
Bank of England
Should be spelled out at first reference, but can be trimmed later to BoE. NB: interest rates are set by the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee (which can be abbreviated at second reference to MPC).
Bankruptcy
A UK company should never be described as 'going bankrupt' since, under UK law, this can only happen to individuals (who file a petition for bankruptcy). The technical situation for a company in financial crisis is that it faces the possibility of a Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA), administration, receivership or winding-up. Use the proper technical description in the top four pars (eg: Smith Scaffolding has gone into administration). Elsewhere, it is acceptable to say simply that a company has collapsed or gone bust.
Outside the UK, the term bankruptcy can be valid. In the US, for example, companies can go bankrupt or enter bankruptcy protection. The best-known form of bankruptcy protection is called 'Chapter 11', which allows a company to continue to operate while all claims from debtors or the company are put on hold. If using the term, explain what Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection means.
Bar, the
(barristers) ie with capital 'B'.
Barclays Bank
ie no apostrophe.
Basel
(city in Switzerland) ie not 'Basle'. Our style conforms to the rules on banking supervision and the football team.
BBC
Say the BBC in references to the organisation that makes announcements, decisions and programmes (eg The BBC is to devote more money to sports coverage). For news-related items, say eg BBC News understands that... or Our correspondent has learned... For news online, say the BBC News website (ie website, lower case).
Do not start your first sentence with 'The BBC...' The aim should be to convey the news - not to wave the BBC flag. Always check BBC quotes from other sources with the BBC press office.
BBC networks
Stick with the official titles for BBC networks, even when this involves extra characters.
For the TV networks, say: BBC One, BBC Two, BBC Three, BBC Four, CBeebies, CBBC, BBC News channel, BBC Parliament.
Write BBC Radio 1, BBC Radio 2, BBC Radio 3, BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 4 Extra, BBC Radio 5 live and BBC Radio 5 live sports extra.
The word 'Radio' does not feature in either BBC 6 Music or 1Xtra - which is also without a 'BBC' label. Elsewhere: BBC Asian Network, BBC World Service.
Note that some BBC local radio stations do not have the word 'Radio' in their title (eg BBC Essex).
Non-BBC TV channels include Sky One, ITV, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4 and Channel 4.
Channel 5, which for a time was known as Five, has reverted to its original name.
BC
(before Christ) ie unpunctuated. It goes after the year - eg: 100BC, with no gap. 
Beg the question
Often misused. The dictionary definition is 'to assume in an argument the truth of something which is part of what is to be proved'. Best avoided.
Belarus
formerly part of the Soviet Union as Byelorussia; now independent. Adjective, Belarusian.
Benelux
comprises Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg.
Best-seller, best-selling ie with hyphens.
Between
is correctly used when only two parties are involved (eg: talks between Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn). If there are more than two parties, use 'among' (eg: talks among cabinet ministers).
Beverley/Beverly Hills 
The town in Yorkshire is Beverley with an 'e' before the 'y'. There is no third 'e' in California's Beverly Hills.
Biannual/biennial
These are often confused: biannual means twice a year; biennial means every two years. (Plants that complete their lifecycle in two years are biennials.) Best to avoid both.
Bible/bible
The original gets an initial cap. Otherwise, lower case (eg: The footballer's bible).
Bid
May serve as substitute for 'attempt', but should primarily be used to mean 'financial bid', as in auctions, company takeovers and the football transfer market - as well as campaigns to stage the Olympics, and similar events.
Big Society
Our style is to cap up this government initiative - no quote marks.
Bill/bill
In a parliamentary context, use caps for the full title (eg: the Health Bill). Otherwise, lower case (eg: Pressure is growing for a new education bill).
Billion
Means one thousand million. Spell the word out, except in headlines, or when using it with currencies (eg: £3bn).
Bin Laden 
Former al-Qaeda leader who died in 2011. Always with a capital 'B'. At first mention, Osama Bin Laden. Afterwards, Bin Laden (never Mr). He was Saudi-born, but was not 'a Saudi citizen', as he was stripped of his citizenship.
Biro
Do not use generically - it is a trademark. Say: ballpoint pen.
Bishops
Bishops (both Anglican and Roman Catholic) are consecrated (whereas priests are ordained, and deacons made). At first reference, say eg The Bishop of St Albans, the Right Reverend John Smith or, if he has a doctorate, The Bishop of St Albans, Dr John Smith. Afterwards, Bishop Smith or Dr Smith. If in doubt, check in Crockford's Clerical Dictionary for Anglicans; via the diocesan website; or the Catholic Media Office for Roman Catholics.
Bits/bytes
There are eight bits in a byte. Historically, memory (hard drives, file sizes etc) is measured in bytes - kilobytes (kB), megabytes (MB), gigabytes (GB), terabytes (TB). However, data rates/speeds or capacities of fibres and networks are quoted in bits (megabits per second, Mbps) eg: Bloggsnet is offering broadband at 20Mbps and a contract comes with a free 16GB USB stick.
Black
Use the term black people rather than 'blacks'.
But the colour of someone's skin should be mentioned only when it is relevant.
The term 'black' should not normally be used to include Asians. Refer to black and Asian people or Asian, African and Caribbean people. Avoid 'non-whites'.  
The word 'coloured' is inappropriate in a racial context, except with reference to apartheid South Africa, where the term Coloured (ie initial cap) meant 'mixed race'. Take care, too, with the word 'immigrant', which is often wrongly used to describe people who were born in the UK.
Many people in Britain of African and Caribbean origin prefer to be called black British.
black box
Although they tend to be orange, flight recorders are widely known and described as 'black boxes'. But we should clarify what it is at first reference - Divers are searching for the ‘black box’ flight recorder - and use quotes in headlines. Be aware there are two recorders – a flight data recorder and a cockpit voice recorder – that may be together or in separate containers.
Black, in the
Avoid this phrase. It means 'in profit' for a UK audience, but exactly the opposite for some other English speakers.
Blast
Should not be used in sentences such as: 'The prime minister has blasted his own supporters.' Say: criticised or condemned.
Blind
Write about blind people - not 'the blind'.
Blond/blonde
Use blond of a man, and blonde of a woman.
Boat Race, the
ie initial caps.
Bogus
The phrase 'bogus asylum seeker' is judgemental and should not be used except in a quote eg The government spokesman said the number of 'bogus' asylum seekers had doubled.
Bomb warning/hoax
Should not normally be reported - unless there is a strong news angle (eg: significant disruption).
Book titles
Use initial caps, with short 'link' words in lower case: eg: Far from the Madding Crowd. No italics or quotation marks.
Boots
(the chemists) ie no apostrophe.
Bosnia-Herzegovina
Formerly part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Bosnia-Herzegovina emerged in its present form after the end of the Bosnian war in 1995. Spell it with a hyphen (rather than the official title, which is 'Bosnia and Herzegovina') and with a 'z' in Herzegovina rather than a 'c'.
Citizens of Bosnia-Herzegovina should be referred to as Bosnians, unless their ethnicity or religion is of particular relevance.
The Dayton accords formalised the division of the country into two parts - the Bosnian Serb republic (Republika Srpska) and the Bosniak-Croat Federation. Most Bosniaks are Muslims.
When referring to these groups separately, they should be called Bosnian Serbs, Bosnian Croats and Bosniaks (Bosnian Muslims). 
In stories specifically about Bosniaks, it may be useful to include this line of background: 'The Bosniak people, most of whom are Muslims, are descended from Bosnian Slavs who adopted Islam under Ottoman Turkish rule in the Middle Ages.'
It is wrong to call the Bosnian conflict a 'civil' war, because neighbouring countries were involved. Stick to 'war' or 'conflict'.
Bottom line
is a cliché. Do not use it unless you are quoting someone, or referring literally to the bottom line of a company balance sheet.
Bourse
is a French word, favoured by some agencies. Use the English: stock market or stock exchange.
Brackets, square
Use these, not round brackets, for interpolations within quotes: eg: Reacting to the news, Mr Smith said: 'He [President Brown] must not back down.'
Brands Hatch
ie it has no apostrophe.
Britain
(aka Great Britain) is made up of England, Scotland and Wales; the United Kingdom also includes Northern Ireland. The British Isles also include the Republic of Ireland, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands. However, it is a term that can be frowned on in Ireland, so if using it ensure it is employed correctly.
British means 'belonging or relating to Great Britain'.
British law
There is no such thing. England and Wales have a separate legal system from Scotland. Northern Ireland's system is similar to England and Wales.
BSE
It stands for bovine spongiform encephalopathy. The alternative, mad cow disease, should be in quotation marks at first reference.
BTec
(a vocational qualification, available at various levels, from the equivalent of GCSEs to professional diplomas.) ie with both the 'B' and the 'T' capped up. Plural is BTecs.
Budget/budget
Use an initial cap for the Westminster extravaganza. Otherwise, lower case (Mr Brown's Budget; Mr Brown's pre-Budget report; the Australian budget).
Bullet points
If, for example, someone has three objections to a pay deal, then use bullet points to summarise them, and then explain in more detail. They are easier to read on screen than dense paragraphs of text.
If the items in a bullet point list are complete sentences in themselves, then each should start with a capital letter, and in general end with no punctuation: eg:
There is more than one way to cook potatoes.
You can roast them in the oven
You can mash them with milk and butter
You can fry them in a pan 
If the items are not complete sentences, they should start with a lower case letter, and again omit punctuation at the end: eg:
If you want to cook potatoes, you can
roast them in the oven
mash them with milk and butter
fry them in a pan
Single-word lists of nouns should also start with a lower case letter: eg:
Teachers think they are getting a raw deal in three areas:
pay
hours
pensions
The exception on punctuation is that we do include a question mark after each item if that is what logic would suggest: eg:
Is the first thing you think about in the morning
your headache?
your shower?
your breakfast?
This is also true with complete sentence lists. Eg:
There are three questions you should ask yourself each morning:
Why am I here?
Who is this person?
Where are my clothes?
Bullseye
ie no apostrophe.
Bundestag
ie initial cap. We should make clear at first reference it is the lower house of the German parliament. Elections for the Bundestag are held every four years.
Burka
is our favoured spelling for this form of Islamic veil, which covers the entire face and body.
Burma
The BBC is gradually moving towards calling the country Myanmar. We should use Myanmar rather than Burma in headlines and summaries. Inside the body of our stories, preferably on first mention, we should include the wording ‘Myanmar, also known as Burma’. Further references should be to Myanmar. We should talk about the main commercial city as ‘Yangon, also known as Rangoon’, and thereafter Yangon.
Businessmen
Use only if they really are all men. Otherwise, say business people, a business audience, business executives etc.
By-election
ie no 'e' - and with a hyphen.
by-law
ie no 'e' - and with a hyphen.
Bylines
Should not be used on general news stories compiled from a variety of sources (agencies, correspondents' despatches etc). A byline should be reserved for original journalism.
Picture bylines should be used sparingly: for well-known BBC correspondents writing a substantial piece for us, or occasionally for a diary or a first-person piece.
The tag in the CPS production system will enable you to provide:
a) a first line beginning By (capped) and then giving the person's name.
b) a second line giving further information
Examples:
By Zoe McGuire BBC News, Birmingham
By Jonathan Garrod BBC News Magazine
By Paula Harris BBC News
Specialist non-correspondents should be called reporter, not 'staff' or 'writer' etc (initial cap, then lower case) eg:
By Kevin Robertson Political reporter, BBC News
By Christine Peters Health reporter, BBC News
Refer to specialist BBC correspondents and editors as follows:
By Peter Bywater  Political editor, BBC News
By Jane McGuire  Business editor, BBC News
By Mark Morgan Transport correspondent, BBC News
We should refer to (non-specialist) overseas BBC correspondents as belonging to 'BBC News' and give their location. So examples would be:
By Simon Hargreaves
BBC News, Beirut 
By Peter James
BBC News, Washington
By Melanie Buford
BBC News, Brussels
Pieces of original journalism by non-staff should normally follow a similar pattern: ie the first line of a byline should consist of the name only eg:
By Clive James
If relevant, a job description or a location can be added as a second line eg:
By Nicola Horlick
Investment fund manager
However, it will sometimes be preferable with high-profile outside contributors to give further information not as a second line but as a more detailed standfirst, in bold eg: Nicola Horlick has run a number of successful investment funds and earned the nickname Superwoman for having a high-flying career and bringing up five children. If the expert has a rather lower profile, stick with the one-line job description at the top, and add a longer note at the end of the story. This should be written in italics (not bold).
We do not use correspondents' bylines with on-demand video and audio pages. The convention is to go with The BBC's as a label; Sport, where appropriate, say BBC Sport's.
Bypass
ie no 'e' - and no hyphen.
  
Share this page
Elsewhere on the BBC
Journalism section
The BBC News style guide
BBC News style guide blog
Elsewhere on the Web
The Guardian style guide
Telegraph style book
The Economist style guide
The Reuters style guide
      Explore the BBC    Home   Home   News   News   Sport   Weather   Shop   Earth   Travel   Capital   iPlayer   Culture   Autos   Future   TV   Radio   CBBC   CBeebies   Food   iWonder   Bitesize   Travel   Music   Earth   Arts   Make It Digital   Taster   Nature   Local   Tomorrow's World            Terms of Use   About the BBC   Privacy Policy   Cookies   Accessibility Help   Parental Guidance   Contact the BBC   Get Personalised Newsletters   Advertise with us   Ad choices    Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.         
 
   