Making Ireland British, 1580-1650 : Canny, Nicholas P : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive
 
Skip to main content
We will keep fighting for all libraries - stand with us!
Internet Archive logo
A line drawing of the Internet Archive headquarters building façade.
Search icon
An illustration of a magnifying glass.
Search icon
An illustration of a magnifying glass.
Upload icon
An illustration of a horizontal line over an up pointing arrow.
Upload
User icon
An illustration of a person's head and chest.
Sign up
        |
        Log in
Web icon
An illustration of a computer application window
Wayback Machine
Texts icon
An illustration of an open book.
Books
Video icon
An illustration of two cells of a film strip.
Video
Audio icon
An illustration of an audio speaker.
Audio
Software icon
An illustration of a 3.5" floppy disk.
Software
Images icon
An illustration of two photographs.
Images
Donate icon
An illustration of a heart shape
Donate
Ellipses icon
An illustration of text ellipses.
More
Hamburger icon
An icon used to represent a menu that can be toggled by interacting with this icon.
Internet Archive Audio
Live Music Archive
Librivox Free Audio
Featured
All Audio
This Just In
Grateful Dead
Netlabels
Old Time Radio
78 RPMs and Cylinder Recordings
Top
Audio Books & Poetry
Computers, Technology and Science
Music, Arts & Culture
News & Public Affairs
Spirituality & Religion
Podcasts
Radio News Archive
Images
Metropolitan Museum
Cleveland Museum of Art
Featured
All Images
This Just In
Flickr Commons
Occupy Wall Street Flickr
Cover Art
USGS Maps
Top
NASA Images
Solar System Collection
Ames Research Center
Software
Internet Arcade
Console Living Room
Featured
All Software
This Just In
Old School Emulation
MS-DOS Games
Historical Software
Classic PC Games
Software Library
Top
Kodi Archive and Support File
Vintage Software
APK
MS-DOS
CD-ROM Software
CD-ROM Software Library
Software Sites
Tucows Software Library
Shareware CD-ROMs
Software Capsules Compilation
CD-ROM Images
ZX Spectrum
DOOM Level CD
Books
Books to Borrow
Open Library
Featured
All Books
All Texts
This Just In
Smithsonian Libraries
FEDLINK (US)
Genealogy
Lincoln Collection
Top
American Libraries
Canadian Libraries
Universal Library
Project Gutenberg
Children's Library
Biodiversity Heritage Library
Books by Language
Additional Collections
Video
TV News
Understanding 9/11
Featured
All Video
This Just In
Prelinger Archives
Democracy Now!
Occupy Wall Street
TV NSA Clip Library
Top
Animation & Cartoons
Arts & Music
Computers & Technology
Cultural & Academic Films
Ephemeral Films
Movies
News & Public Affairs
Spirituality & Religion
Sports Videos
Television
Videogame Videos
Vlogs
Youth Media
          Search the history of over 828 billion
          web pages
          on the Internet.
        
Search the Wayback Machine
Search icon
An illustration of a magnifying glass.
Mobile Apps
Wayback Machine (iOS)
Wayback Machine (Android)
Browser Extensions
Chrome
Firefox
Safari
Edge
Archive-It Subscription
Explore the Collections
Learn More
Build Collections
Save Page Now
Capture a web page as it appears now for use as a trusted citation in the future.
Please enter a valid web address
AboutBlogProjectsHelpDonateContactJobsVolunteerPeople
Sign up for free
Log in
          Search metadata
        
          Search text contents
        
          Search TV news captions
        
          Search radio transcripts
        
          Search archived web sites
        
Advanced Search
About
Blog
Projects
Help
Donate
Donate icon
An illustration of a heart shape
Contact
Jobs
Volunteer
People
    Making Ireland British, 1580-1650  
    Bookreader Item Preview
  
remove-circle
                    Internet Archive's in-browser bookreader                    "theater" requires JavaScript to be enabled.
                    It appears your browser does not have it turned on.
                    Please see your browser settings for this feature.
                  
remove-circle 
Share or Embed This Item
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Share to Reddit
Share to Tumblr
Share to Pinterest
Share via email
EMBED
EMBED (for wordpress.com hosted blogs and archive.org item <description> tags)
[archiveorg makingirelandbri00cann width=560 height=384 frameborder=0 webkitallowfullscreen=true mozallowfullscreen=true]
                Want more?
                Advanced embedding details, examples, and help!
              
Favorite 
Share 
Flag
Flag this item for
                  Graphic Violence                
                  Explicit Sexual Content                
                  Hate Speech                
                  Misinformation/Disinformation                
                  Marketing/Phishing/Advertising                
                  Misleading/Inaccurate/Missing Metadata                
 
 
 
texts
Making Ireland British, 1580-1650
 by
Canny, Nicholas P
 
Publication date
2001
Topics
British, British
 Publisher
Oxford ; New York : Oxford University Press
 Collection
inlibrary; printdisabled; internetarchivebooks; china
 Contributor
Internet Archive
 Language
English
 
Includes bibliographical references (p. [579]-606) and index
Access-restricted-item
true
Addeddate
2011-10-26 18:20:50
Boxid
IA173401
Camera
Canon EOS 5D Mark II
City
Oxford
Donor
              bostonpubliclibrary                
Edition
1. publ.
External-identifier
              urn:oclc:record:1036687736 
              urn:lcp:makingirelandbri00cann:lcpdf:53b2a2b0-9785-4d54-9c33-9e9e2ef72e6f                
              urn:lcp:makingirelandbri00cann:epub:34fd897a-45db-4775-8b5f-9abf27925680                
Extramarc
University of Toronto
Foldoutcount
0
Homepage
              https://archive.org                
Identifier
makingirelandbri00cann
Identifier-ark
ark:/13960/t89g6rg1r
Isbn
97801982009180198200919
Lccn
00065226
Ocr
tesseract 4.1.1
Ocr_detected_lang
en
Ocr_detected_lang_conf
1.0000
Ocr_detected_script
Latin
Ocr_module_version
0.0.5
Ocr_parameters
-l eng
Openlibrary
OL6795326M
Openlibrary_edition
              OL6795326M                
Openlibrary_work
              OL4729103W                
Origin-contact
info@archive.org
Origin-note
Physical items are owned or controlled by and digitized by Internet Archive
Origin-organization
Internet Archive
Page-progression
lr
Page_number_confidence
91.86
Pages
690
Ppi
514
Related-external-id
urn:isbn:0199259054urn:lccn:00065226urn:oclc:249470539urn:oclc:263653362urn:oclc:830808409urn:oclc:840926267urn:oclc:462424465urn:oclc:54482061urn:isbn:0191542016urn:oclc:252552703urn:isbn:1280444991
Republisher_date
20120406180728
Republisher_operator
scanner-shenzhen-thomas@archive.org
Scandate
20120405220005
Scanner
scribe7.shenzhen.archive.org
Scanningcenter
shenzhen
Worldcat (source edition)
              185532272                
Show More
Show Less
 Full catalog record
MARCXML
 
plus-circle              Add Review
comment
        Reviews
      
Reviewer:
Porlock
            -
      favoritefavoritefavoritefavoritefavorite      -
      June 1, 2020      
Subject:
      Government o' the Tongue (Draft Review)      
        Irish histories have typically confined their focus to events in Ireland, often at the expense of their larger Atlantic context, a weakness surely?. 
Irish history books, at least the ones used in many schools in the south of Ireland, have tended to skirt around the uncomfortable fact that Ireland, to mention but two, found itself on the 'wrong' side of the Reformation and on the wrong side of the English Civil War, or the War of the Three Kingdoms as it is now known. 'Wrong' in the sense that predominantly Ireland was neither Protestant nor Puritan.
And while it is understandable that a new country, the Irish Free State of 1921, would prefer not to cast its history in terms of either religion or its opposition to English rule, religion and England have largely defined Irish history since the 16th Century where this wonderful study begins, representing a more comprehensive and a more inclusive approach.   
The more I read this book and attempt to absorb its contents the more I realise that highlighting this or that feature probably only has the effect of weakening the overall impact of a book well able to speak for itself; beautifully written, well argued and, quite apart from the detailed research and the well of information (see the detailed bibliography) the author has at his disposal, even handed in its depiction of events on a landscape that remains to some extent tribal, which is to say factional (...the fish being often the last one to discover water.).
Readers already familiar with Ireland and its history can skip down to the Book Review which follows a summary update on the extent to which Ireland retains its British connection today.
A. Background information. (Acts, Facts, Elections, Etc.).
B. Book Review. 
C. Some observations about Edmund Spenser.
Background
To what extent is Ireland British today? -Well, because a person can be declared a British (or an 'American' or 'Indian' or 'Chinese') citizen without that person necessarily changing their 'religious, linguistic or cultural' sympathies or affiliations (to borrow the author's definition) some background information may help untangle this complex knot so far as it relates to Ireland.
Exactly one hundred years ago, in 1920, the entire island of Ireland was officially British. The Government of Ireland Act in 1920, also known as the Fourth Home Rule Act saw the country divided with six of the northern province of Ulster's counties maintaining the link with Great Britain.
-------The island of Ireland, geographically, is part of the British Isles and the 'Great' in Great Britain refers to the larger island comprising England, Scotland, Wales (as well as a number of smaller islands). Ireland George Bernard Shaw described as 'John Bull's Other Island'.
----The British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act was passed in 1914, defining citizenship and creating official passports. In 1920, the League of Nations held its first conference on passports-----
So, 1921-22 saw the establishment of the Irish Free State when the predominantly Nationalist and Catholic south (representing roughly 3/4 of the island or 26 of 32 counties) ceased to be officially British. 
--------Ireland left the Commonwealth in 1952, having remaining officially neutral in WWII (1939-45). Many Irish soldiers also served in WWI (1914-19). The declaration of the Irish Free State of December 1922 followed the 1914 (3rd) Home Rule Act. Catholic Emancipation (achieved 1829) and Home Rule for Ireland dominated British parliamentary politics for much of the 19th Century.   |  In the wake of the French Revolution (1789) and the American War of Independence (1777-1783) the kingdoms of Ireland and Great Britain were merged in 1800 with the Act of Union------
Fifty six years ago, in 1964, over 63% of voters in the independent (since 1921) state of Northern Ireland declared for Unionist candidates (UUP) who occupied all twelve allocated seats at Westminster. 
In the 1919 election, that figure was just over 32% with Unionist candidates (mainly DUP) holding one seat more than their Nationalist counterparts abstentionist Sinn Fein ('We Ourselves', who refuse to take their seats at Westminster as they refuse to swear an oath of allegiance, just as they wouldn't in Dublin in 1921/22). This change reflects demographic change where there are today more Nationalists than there were previously, though care should be exercised in drawing conclusions. Both Nationalist (-6.7%) and Unionist (-5.4%) candidates lost ground in the 1919 Northern Ireland election as moderate centrist parties (Alliance Party, SDLP, UUP) gained ground. 
------------This suggests that the sectarian gulf is narrowing but as DUP voters might have once support the UUP, it may amount to an insifgnificant lateral shift just as Fianna Fail voters in the South voted Sinn Fein in the 2020 election. see below). 
------That a party (UUP) can gain over 11% of the popular vote but win no seats while 30% of the popular vote can win 10 seats is an anomaly of the voting system and one which clearly needs addressing as that 11% represents 93,000 voters in a province that remains volatile--------
In the 2020 election in southern Ireland, known as the Irish Republic, Nationalist Sinn Fein, long in hibernation in the south, narrowly missed becoming the biggest political party and while many pundits reminded readers about Sinn Fein's role in the armed struggle as the anti-Treaty party, the entire history of the island (and that of Europe) is the story of often violent struggle.
Book Review
When Karl Marx summarily dismissed Edmund Spenser as Queen Elizabeth I's 'arse-kissing poet', he wasn't short-changing Spenser so much as he was the interested Reader. Spenser (like Shakespeare) was so much more than a humble born poet in need of patronage, and this wonderful study explains how he set the agenda. 
When John Pope-Hennessy (...if I recall correctly) likewise likened Spenser's epic poem 'the Faerie Queene' as 'a hymn to purity sung from the depths of a brothel', in effect he too was usurping the need to investigate the poet/administrator's actual role and influence in Ireland. This book does not attempt to rehabilitate Spenser but helps us to understand his influence on policy makers, those who would see Ireland become British. 
------------That a truly great critic like Frank Kermode can write a whole study on Spenser without mentioning Ireland should give the reader a sense of how Spenser needs to be understood not simply as the author of a long epic about Knights doing chivalrous things. The same can be said for Northrop Frye and any number of others. Distinguished as they were, like Spenser they too were a product of their age and training. Until the advent of New Historicism, works of imaginative literature tended not to be related to their larger cultural context.
-----Whatever about his need for patronage (a consequence surely of his being born without title or property), love him or loath him, he had a very clear understanding of the problem successive English administrations faced in their efforts to make Ireland British. Not until Sir John Davies (1569-1626) later book detailing why England failed to impose its stamp on Ireland do we such a clear minded critique of 'what needs to be done' (as Vladimir Lenin put it). While Davies book is in many respects an elaborate  and dispassionate post-mortem, Spenser's 'View' represents a chilling prognosis.
In a European context, broadly speaking, England saw itself as defending its sovereignty by extending it to Ireland which (at least until 1985 with the Anglo-Irish agreement) it regarded as falling within its immediate strategic interest.
So, Spenser's epic supplied the proscenium arch, the narrative frame for an epic struggle of two competing ideologies or belief systems which are still working themselves out on the island of Ireland. As the author  of this history reminds the reader, the history of Ireland since Spenser's time in Ireland (the late 16th Century) is in so many ways a playing-out of the Faerie Queene, the story of an epic struggle by chivalrous knights attempting to impose the, as they see it, correct moral order on barbarous Others. And, as so often happens, the prescribed cure is much worse than the malady.
--------Spenser made the naive mistake in his epic of 'Othering' (demonising) the departed Stuart dynasty, (notably the Catholic Mary Queen of Scots, Duessa, a type of moth) which was returned to power with the death of a childless Elizabeth Tudor in 1603.
The events detailed in this book, covering 70 years to 1650, permanently shaped Ireland and, as historiographers have latterly come to realise with not a little object-relational irony, that of England also as it was in Ireland that England first encountered the question how an occupying force might not just physically subdue people with a different cultural and legal tradition but how, or if indeed, they could be made British. 
So, at the beginning of the so called 'Age of Discovery', administrators in England considered not just the manner and the means of geographic expansion but also, crucially, whether it could export its language, its culture, and ultimately its mode of government to less developed (certainly in terms of technology and formal institutions) parts of the globe.
In examining events in Ireland it is well to bear in mind that Ireland was only one site in a large theatre of war. The two Desmond Rebellions (Munster 1569, 1579) for example occurred between the French Wars of Religion (1562) and the Anglo-Spanish War of 1585. This, not to mention the lingering effects of the Reformation, the counter-Reformation, the English Civil War, the Commonwealth or the Restoration. 
To highlight just how intertwined the history of these two islands are (as this study emphasises), no sooner had England under Cromwell finally conquered Ireland, the English Commonwealth gave way to the Restoration when Charles II restored much of the property confiscated from Irish leaders in the Irish phase of the War of the Three Kingdoms (the English Civil War). 
So many fine works of history are marred because historians quite understandably haven't been able to muster or harness the requisite literary-critical acumen, what I think Frederic Jamison referred to as 'the mastery of perplexing idiolects'. -Not so here. 
If the reader imagines that the events featured in these pages are of no relevance to their own lives and surroundings, he can be reminded that though the action is centered in the British Isles, the plot, whereby at least two cultures come into fierce contact, can be read as a critique of every other conflict where languages and traditions clash, whether Columbus or Cortes in the Americas, Russia in the Ukraine, China in Tibet, Germany's 1930s claim for more living space, or the Eastern Europe of today as it resists EU rubrics, to mention but a few.
End.
A few observations about Edmund Spenser.
This study begins with Edmund Spenser, recently rusticated to Ireland still in in his twenties, a beneficiary of Gaelic land dispossession, whose new found wealth and position gave him a real stake in ensuring that England spread the new gospel of secular self sufficiency (albeit with a Protestant face) as he mulled over how best to bring those he saw as barbarous to sense. Spenser, keenly aware of the threats to his new found status, wrote to influence government policy. 
What differentiates Spenser as a government official and perhaps explains why he clearly identified the challenges for England in Ireland was the fact that he had a personal stake (his only stake as he was born without title or influence) in the success of the English government's new venture in Ireland in the form of a confiscated estate in County Cork.
So many books on Edmund Spenser's main work are marred because such is the length of the Faerie Queene (six books, twelve originally planned) and such are their contents that the typical reader quickly becomes snowed in under all the detail, the cast of characters exceeding that of Richard III, the reader's energy dissipates under the weight of events. -Not so here. 
For fifty years, some critics have been trying to rescue Spenser from a different type of critic who seemingly abjuring the rise of Historicism have preferred a focus on allegory and archetype in Spenser to what might be called surface or pragmatic readings of the poem.
Frank Kermode, borrowing a quote from Joyce criticism explains that "The mistake in short is to 'be led away into exploring the possible significance the myths used [sic] may be thought to possess in themselves, into infinite speculations regarding archetypal patterns and analogies, instead of the realized meaning of the work itself' ".
So, getting a little ahead of ourselves here, what has an epic poem, the allegorical depiction of chivalrous knights enforcing what they or their creator saw as the correct moral order, written in Ireland around 1580 by an inventive poet and junior government official, got to do with the signing of the Atlantic Charter in 1941 'to guarantee the right to self determination of small nations' and 'to restore self government to those to whom it had been denied'?
The short answer is absolutely everything and this persuasive study, without straying beyond 1650 (or mentioning the Atlantic Charter) rescues Spenser from the allegorists by tracing the role of imaginative literature in formulating official government policy, the word made flesh. 
This book furnishes the reader with passages from the imaginative writing of the period, detailing how works of literature were in fact the sites of the geo-political imagination. Irish language accounts of the Cromwellian conquest (as mentioned previously) fortify the accounts that have been handed down to us from posterity. Edward Said's study 'Culture & Imperialism' will sit very comfortably next to this work.
I may be wrong but I imagine this book owes something to the rise of New Historicism. Prior to about 1970 at least within the discipline of Literature, literary theorists on both sides of the Atlantic rigidly proscribed any examination of the background to works of imaginative literature. I cannot speak to orthodoxies in the discipline of History except to cite EL Carr's wonderful study which probes the unavoidable ideology of the historian. (I cannot detect any ideology at work in this wonderful study).
Previously dominated by New Criticism, texts began to be studied in other contexts which lead theorists, for example, Edward Said to examine the relationship between Jane Austen's 'Mansfield Park' and the institution of slavery. Likewise, Jane Eyre was re-examined, quite contrary to its traditional literary reception, for what it said about domestic incarceration, madness, and the laws pertaining to divorce, inheritance, remarriage, and so on.
Perhaps to demonstrate that a man's fortunes could be determined by a diligent application of his talents, that his fortunes lay not in his stars but in his self, Spenser's heroes in the Faerie Queene are portrayed as having a civilising effect on their environment, the implicit message or at least the hope being that an exemplary presence alone would eventually win the day over perceived ignorance and adversity. After 1580, Spenser was not so sure particularly as some of the villains who he had nonchalantly maligned in his epic had returned to power in the guise of the Stuarts as the Tudor line ended with a childless Elizabeth, the eponymous heroine of his Arthurian epic.
So, the reader learns the point of the Faerie Queene, which is to say we learn its purpose within the larger scheme of things, what Spenser sought to achieve. We learn why he wrote his epic as an allegory, we learn what it aimed to portray, why he did not finish the work and why, a little dissatisfied with what his Epic had managed to achieve, he subsequently wrote 'the View of the Present State of Ireland', a prose dialogue and a more controversial work whose contents, intimations of genocide and what would today be called ethnic cleansing,  were not lost on Oliver Cromwell who later subdued Ireland in a series of routs which are still remembered with bitterness. 
Reading about Spenser in traditional works, the reader often comes away informed but unsatisfied with that dread feeling that an opportunity has been missed, to present the work as part of a larger socio-political and cultural landscape. This study provides that context. Sir John Davies (much later) masterful summary on why England repeatedly failed to bring Ireland to heel finds ample expression in chapter two of this book as the political theories of chapter one come face to face with the realities on the ground. Easy to invade but difficult to hold, much harder to rule or coerce the native population to enjoy the 'sweetness of subjection', the scene is set for a series of Plantations which were expected to bring about a final solution to at least England's woes in Ireland after a number of other strategies had exhausted themselves. 
The subject of this book is as topical today as it was in the time of Edmund Spenser. The shadow of William Penn (1644-1718) and his decision to leave his Munster estate and instead move to America looms large as does the decision of Oliver Cromwell (1599-1658) to subdue Ireland during the Irish phase of the War of the Three Kingdoms when Gaelic Ireland supported the Royalist faction of Charles I.      
825
        Previews      
21
Favorites
1
            Review          
        DOWNLOAD OPTIONS
      
No suitable files to display here.
14 day loan required to access EPUB and PDF files.
IN COLLECTIONS
          Texts to Borrow                      
          Books for People with Print Disabilities                      
          Internet Archive Books                      
          Scanned in China                      
        Uploaded by
                  
            SeanFagan          
        
                  on February 2, 2012
SIMILAR ITEMS (based on metadata)
Terms of Service (last updated 12/31/2014)