TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO SPORT
4 captures
24 Jan 2000 - 22 Jun 2007
Oct
JUN
Jul
22
2000
2007
2008
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Around The World Crawl
  Data crawled by Sloan Foundation on behalf of Internet Archive
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20070622115557/http://www.nalis.gov.tt/Sport/BOLDON_LaraAmes.html
BOLDON, 
  LARA, AMES PUT TRINIDAD & TOBAGO ON INTERNATIONAL MAP…
 
KEEPING THE FLAG FLYING
 
By Irving Ward 
Sunday Express
August 31, 1997
Page 19
 
 
Trinidad and Tobago's newest sprinting star 
  Ato Boldon last month 
  blazed into the sporting archives of this country. 
The 23-year-old sprinter became the country's first World Championship gold 
  medal winner when he sped down the track to victory ahead of Namibian Frankie 
  Fredericks and Brazil's Claudinei De Silva in the 200-metre event in Athens.
His time of 20.01 seconds was relatively slow, well off the 19.32 seconds world 
  mark set by American Michael Johnson in Atlanta last year.
But in the 21 years since Hasely 
  Crawford gave this country its first and still only Olympic 
  gold medal at the Montreal Games in Canada, Boldon's win is T&T's only really 
  outstanding athletic achievement at the highest level.
Indeed, Boldon's achievements apart - and they include his double 
  bronze medal haul in Atlanta last year and his earlier double gold at the World 
  Junior Games in Seoul - only cricketer Brian 
  Lara and golfer Stephen 
  Ames have brought significant glory on the international 
  circuit for the red, white and black.
s the nation celebrates the 35th anniversary of Independence, it 
  is not clear why more of our sportsmen have not made their mark on the international 
  circuit.
And it is no consolation that in many areas we continue to dominate at the 
  regional level.
Trinidad and Tobago was just two years old as an independent nation when their 
  sportsmen burst on to the international stage in memorable fashion.
At the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo, we had what remains our best-ever Olympic medal 
  haul at a single game.
Wendell Mottley, later to 
  become a minister of government, claimed the silver medal in the 400-yards event. 
  Edwin Roberts copped 
  the bronze in the 200 yards before he and Mottley teamed up with Edwin 
  Skinner and Kent Bernard 
  to take another bronze in the 4 x 440 yards relay.
For a young nation of fewer than one million people still trying to find its 
  identity, a three-medal haul was an outstanding achievement. It whetted the 
  country's appetite for more.
It would be long in coming. Twelve years would go by before Crawford would 
  pass through a shortcut, as Sparrow put it, to post 10.06 seconds and win the 
  Montreal hundred, thus putting the country on the top rung of the rostrum for 
  the first time ever.
Barring Boldon's two bronzes in the 100 and 200 metres in Atlanta, no other 
  athlete in the next two decades would bring home any other type of precious 
  metal.
But athletics was not the only sport in which T&T excelled 
  in the early days of Independence. Back then, bodybuilders Mike 
  Hercules and Christopher 
  Forde were ranked among the best in the world, wicketkeeper 
  Deryck Murray was rated 
  among the world's best glovemen and cyclist Roger 
  Gibbon was good enough to put fear into the hearts of the 
  kings of the world's velodromes; lightweight boxer Johnny
De Peiza was into the 
  world rankings, and Jean Pierre 
  - also subsequently to become a minister - led the country's netballers to a 
  World Championship title, shared with Australia and New Zealand, in 1979.
If the athletes have been the ones to fly the flag highest through the years, 
  other sportsmen have provided this country with enough significant performances 
  over the years to leave many satisfied.
Among them is Gene Samuel 
  whose cycling exploits kept world attention long focused on the red, white and 
  black and who eventually earned himself a World Championship bronze medal in 
  August 1991 in Stuttgart, Germany. He also copped three Pan-American Games gold 
  medals in 1984, 1991 and 1994.
But perhaps the sportsman who must head the list of national achievers 
  is Brian Lara. Under 
  Lara's captaincy, T&T were able to win two regional knockout (Shell/Sandals) 
  titles in 1995 and 1996.
These liens on the relatively new one-day cricket trophy were added to the 
  four notches on the Shell Shield (now Red Stripe) in 1970, 1971, 1976 and 1985.
But it was more as batsman than as skipper that the dapper left-hander made 
  his mark. His magnificent knock of 277 against Australia at Sydney in January 
  1993 was only a taste of what he had in store for T&T and the world.
For just after 11.45 a.m. on April 18, 1994 at the Antigua Recreation 
  Ground, he pulled pacer Chris Lewis to the mid-wicket boundary for four runs 
  to go past the previous best Test innings of 365 not out made against Pakistan 
  by Sir Gary Sobers 36 
  years earlier in Jamaica's Sabina Park.
His marathon innings eventually ended on 375 but it had already sparked massive 
  celebrations all over the region particularly here at home in T&T.
Mere months later when playing for English County side Warwickshire, the talented 
  former Fatima College student added the record for the highest individual first-class 
  innings. His 501 not out broke a mass of records, including the 36-year-old 
  mark of 499 set by Pakistan's Hanif Mohammed playing for Karachi against Bahawalpur 
  in 1958. On the way to his mammoth achievement, Lara had also obliterated several 
  other English records and by the end of the season he would lead Warwickshire 
  to an unprecedented four major titles.
That was an unforgettable year for Lara and for the country as his name became 
  a household word in all the countries of the former British Empire - and in 
  some places where cricket remains a word in the dictionary!
Another outstanding achiever was the country's first professional 
  golfer, Ames. He broke 
  new ground by becoming the first T&T golfer to win, not one, but two major 
  European PGA titles.
His first success came at the Lyon Open in France in 1994 and then last year 
  he followed that up with a Benson and Hedges Cup victory, outplaying a field 
  of seasoned veterans at the Oxfordshire course in Thames, England.
Claude Noel and Leslie 
  'Tiger' Stewart would bring our only major boxing glory 
  in 1981 and 1986 respectively.
Noel lifted the WBA light-weight title in Atlantic City, New Jersey, breaking 
  the jaw of his Mexican opponent Rudolfo 'El Gato' Gonzalez in the process. Stewart 
  also knocked out Mervyn 'Pops' Johnson in the ninth round right here at the 
  then National Stadium - now renamed the Hasely Crawford Stadium - to be crowned 
  WBA light heavyweight champ. Unfortunately, neither man would have an extended 
  reign as champion.
T&T's football now has a wealth of professional players - 
  Russell Latapy (Boavista), 
  Dwight Yorke 
  (Aston Villa), Clint Marcelle 
  (Barnsley), Shaka Hislop 
  (Newcastle), Leonson Lewis 
  (Chaves), Anthony Rougier 
  (Hibernian) - playing in prestigious leagues abroad but football remains arguably 
  the most barren of the major sporting disciplines.
Twice, the national team came close to reaching the World Cup 
  Finals. On the first occasion in 1974, some appalling hometown decisions in 
  Port-au-Prince saw Haiti advance to the Finals in Germany ahead of the Kevin 
  Verity - coached Trinidadians. Then 15 years later on November 19, 1989, Everald 
  'Gally' Cummings, one of the major players on the 1974 squad, 
  led his 'Strike Squad' through an unforgettable campaign tot he brink of qualification 
  for the 1990 Finals in Italy.
Needing but a draw against the United States in their final qualifying match 
  at the then National Stadium, the team fell at the last hurdle.
Home fans will arguably never forget the excruciating pain of 
  the moment when Paul Caligiuri's shot from almost half-line beat goalkeeper 
  Michael Maurice to give 
  the visitors a 1-0 lead. Maurice earned little sympathy with his lame 'sun-in-my-eye' 
  excuse for the costly error.
Several years and post-mortems later, the T&TFA still have not been able 
  to come up with any substantial framework to suggest that the country will be 
  spared another visit to 1989. That remains the country's biggest sporting disappointment 
  since Independence, made all the more poignant in the wake of two subsequently 
  disastrous attempts to reach the 1994 World Cup in the USA and the 1998 World 
  Cup in France.
But there has been no question about T&T's domination of regional 
  football. Despite the occasional challenge from Jamaica, the Shell/Umbro Caribbean 
  Cup title has come home to Port of Spain six out of possible eight times - in 
  1989, 1992, 1993, 1995, 1996, and 1997. Last year's win was a comprehensive 
  4-0 thrashing of St Kitts at the Antigua Recreation Ground with a team made 
  up mostly of locally-based players under coach Bertille 
  St Clair.
On the whole though, Boldon and Lara apart, the sporting cupboards look pretty 
  bare for a nation that has been nurturing its sportsmen and sportswomen for 
  the last 35 years…
TOP