"Accountability in patenting of federally funded research" by Arti K. Rai and Bhaven N. Sampat
Home
 Search
Browse Collections
My Account
About
 Digital Commons Network™
Skip to main content
Duke Law Scholarship Repository
Duke Law > 
Duke Law Scholarship Repository
 > Faculty Scholarship
 > 2771
Faculty Scholarship
 
Title
Accountability in patenting of federally funded research
Authors
Arti K. Rai, Duke Law SchoolFollow
Bhaven N. Sampat
Document Type
Article
Publication Date
2012
Keywords
patents, scientific research, Bayh-Dole Act, federal grants, transparency, accountability
Abstract
Bayh-Dole allows academic grantees to patent federally-funded research for purposes of promoting the commercialization of this research. To ensure commercialization goals are achieved, the Act requires grantees to report to funding agencies not only the existence of federally-funded patents but also utilization efforts they and their licensees/assignees are making.
Although reporting is a cornerstone of accountability under Bayh-Dole, information about grantee compliance with reporting requirements is incomplete and dated. In fact, the last significant study of the question dates back to the late 1990s and analyzes only 633 patents. Since that time, concerns have emerged that federally-funded university patents are being asserted improperly against independent commercializers or even assigned to so-called “patent trolls.”
This article provides fresh evidence indicating substantial under-reporting of the existence of federal funding in over 30,000 academic biomedical patents issued between 1980 to 2007. The article finds substantial under-reporting of federal funding even in the case of patents on FDA-approved drugs, which should presumably receive significant attention from universities.
Grantees’ failure to report federal funding suggests similar, or even more significant, noncompliance with requirements to report utilization information. However, compliance with reporting requirements on utilization cannot be assessed because of secrecy associated with relevant government databases. Accordingly, the article makes a fresh argument that the Commerce Department, which has the requisite regulatory authority, work with funding agencies, to improve transparency. Greater transparency would not only motivate grantees to improve reporting but would also allow assessment of whether grantee patent management is actually achieving Bayh-Dole's utilization goals.
Citation
Arti K. Rai & Bhaven N. Sampat,
Accountability in patenting of federally funded research, 30 Nature Biotechnology 953-956
(2012)
        Download
      
Library of Congress Subject Headings
Patents, Grants-in-aid, Research, Bayh-Dole Act, Responsibility, United States
 DOWNLOADS
Since December 10, 2012
Included in
Administrative Law Commons, 
Intellectual Property Law Commons
COinS
 
Available at: https://scholarship.law.duke.edu/faculty_scholarship/2771
 
 

Enter search terms:

Select context to search:
in this series
in this repository
across all repositories

Advanced Search

Notify me via email or RSS
Browse
Collections
Subjects
Subjects
Duke Law Authors
All Authors
Submissions
Author FAQ
Top Downloads
Most Popular Faculty Scholarship
Duke Law Links
            Repository Home
          
            Faculty Profiles
          
 
Elsevier - Digital Commons
Duke University School of Law
 
Accessibility Statement
 | 
Contact Duke Law
 | 
Duke University Home