Israel Language Policy and Linguistics by Haiim B Rosén – Ariel vol
Israel Language
Policy and Linguistics[1]  
by Haiim B Rosén –
– Ariel vol. 25 (1969) pp. 48-63
Reprinted by David Steinberg with permission of
copyright holders
 
Professor Haiim B Rosén.
Professor of General and Indo-European Linguistics of the Hebrew
University, has been
twice visiting Professor of Hebrew Linguistics at the Sorbonne.  He is a member of the Permanent International
Committee of Linguistics, and among his publications are the first books to
present a linguistic analysis of current Hebrew.
 
Overview – Israeli Language
     Policy; Language Policy only Deals with
     Superficial Aspects of Hebrew; Opposition to
     Descriptive Studies of Current Hebrew
Israeli
     Hebrew as a Western language
Examples
      of “Calqued” Western Semantics  - takhana “station” ; sherut “service
The “Fatal Question”
In What Way Can We Say that Israeli Hebrew Has Grown out
      of Classical Hebrew?
Biblical Hebrew Centers More on what is Happening vs.
      Israeli Hebrew on the Position of the Narrator
Influence of Russian
Israeli Hebrew Three-Tense System: past, present and
      future
“Seventh” Personal Form Equivalent to French on – German man
Preservation of Verbless Sentence Due to
      Russian Influence
Western-Type compound Adjectives
Styles of Israeli Hebrew
Westernization of “Parts of Speech”
Westernization of Israeli Hebrew Sentence
      Structure
“Re-Classicization” of Israeli Hebrew
Futility of Puristic Language Policy
Hebrew Language Policy and Language Teaching
 
 
1. Overview
Language policy and language teaching are affected by
linguistics in different ways.  For
languages of civilization, wherever language policy is conducted at all, it is
conservative and directed against habits or trends considered undesirable by
the policy-makers.  From a very broad
point of view, this conservatism need not necessarily try to perpetuate
language usages that are, by evolution or chronology, the antecedents of
existing ones, although this was the principal facet of Israel’s official
language policy in the earlier years of the State.  Another facet evident in enlightened speech
communities, and lately enjoying increasing favor in this country, is the
braking effect of language policy (that chiefly followed in schools) seeking to
protect “good” usage against too speedy development and destructive
restructuring.  Consequently, whether the
policy maker wishes to champion the linguistic usage of his generation or to
wage a losing battle against it, he needs linguistic analysis as the primary
diagnostic took for the purpose of defining either the state of health he
wishes to safeguard or the disease he wishes to fight.
It is fortunate for the
linguistic development of Israel that language policy-makers and teachers alike have,
for a generation at least, been taking little more than a very superficial view
of what constitutes the image of a language. 
Their attention was directed towards, perhaps more correctly restricted
to, very external features of Hebrew speech and writing, ipso facto limited to what we technically term the “level of
expression,” the physically apparent, formal features of the language –
excluding practically altogether the “level of content” and relations between
expression and content structure.  For many
years, language policy and language teaching alike were guided by a desire to
preserve what appeared to be (in keeping with the superficial considerations
just mentioned) the Semitic character of Hebrew, fighting a – losing, as I have
said – battle for pronunciation habits reminiscent of contemporary Arabic, and
for a morphology consistent with Biblical vocalization and diacritics uttered
in the shape they acquired during the centuries in some of the culturally
preponderant Jewish communities.
The real image of contemporary
Hebrew was necessarily left to develop without any control on its own
lines.  Had the declared principles of
language guiding the Jewish community of Palestine and the early State of
Israel taken notice of the intrinsic nature of Israeli Hebrew as a language,
that is, as an activity of the human mind facing the world and its realities
and “expressing itself into them,” then Israeli Hebrew – of this I am convinced
though I can adduce no evidence – would have been stillborn.
I believe I am not deluding
myself in stating the day of the superficial concept of the physis of Israeli Hebrew is over, for
the more educated at least.  More and
more language teachers are being brought up on modern methods of language
didactics and contrastive analysis (in the prodigious project of teaching
Hebrew to speakers of a foreign language); they become more and more aware of
the necessity of learning in nature, not only of what it appears to be, but
what it is by nature and type.  The
language policy-maker examining his target and achievements is increasingly
compelled to establish what Hebrew is, here and now.  The common denominator for both language
policy and language teaching in this country, consequently, is an objective
view of what type of language Israeli Hebrew constitutes at the time of this
writing.
 
2. Israeli Hebrew as a
Western language
We must, therefore, first
attempt to define Israeli Hebrew typologically, and see whether Israeli Hebrew
is a Western language.  We shall dispense
with two preliminary questions that immediately arise in this context.  The one is what is meant by “Western.”  We take it that this concept has become
sufficiently crystallized to make any attempt at quasi-definition superfluous.  The other is a “chicken-and-egg” dilemma: is
Israeli Hebrew a Western language because it is spoken by a community
essentially imbued with Occidental civilization, or conversely, is it a
language predisposed to shape a society imbued with a common mental attitude
and at the same time capable of perpetuating itself as a carrier of Western
civilization based and centered on the conceptual framework of this type of
language as its vehicle of thought?
While avoiding an explanation
of what is meant by “Western,” it might still be expedient to say what is
not.  “Western” may be adequately
understood as an antonym of “Oriental;” but let it be clearly understood that
when the rather outdated concept of Oriental Languages was created in the
earlier part of the modern era, it could not possibly have borne a genealogical
connotation, simply because genealogical classification had not yet been
conceived at the time.   “Oriental” may
have meant “non-European,” but European is not a family of languages.[2]  Non-Oriental could not have meant Indo-European
(since the very notion of the Indo-European language family was formed in the
minds of scholars by their intensive occupation with the Asiatic
representatives of that group, such as Indic, Armenian, Iranian) any more than
“non-Western” can mean “Semitic.”[3]
Thus Israeli Hebrew is a Western language while never ceasing to be a
Semitic language[4].  It is a vehicle of expression that has in
common with its Semitic sisters the formal elements (roots, prefixes, suffixes,
word-grouping mechanisms, sentence-patterns) that make expression as such
possible, while its notional structure, that is, what expression stands for,
what makes it worthwhile for me to express myself at all, is shared by it with
the principal languages of “Europe.”[5]
This may be hard to grasp for
the uninitiated; how hard, I know when I remember a Central European postal
clerk looking up a mail tariff for me and not being able to find it until I
told him to look under “Asia.”   “Why, I
thought Israel was a European country!”  “Yes, well,” I had to admit, “in Asia.”  If a language and the
community speaking it have a mission in cultural history, the mission of the Israel language-community might serve as an example.
 
a. Examples of “Calqued” Western Semantics - takhana “station” ; sherut “service
To bring this rather
abstract argument down to earth may not be so difficult as it seems.  A few examples will serve our purpose.
Let us take the Hebrew word takhana[6] “station.”  On the surface this is one of the myriad of
“stock” words of Hebrew root, Hebrew etymology, classical documentation.  Cut off its first syllable, and you get the
shape of the radical element khana- “stopped
movement, s’est stationé.”  It recurs
again and again in the Biblical narrative of the Israelites’ wanderings in the
desert: “after they had set out from …, they stopped at …”[7]  Another Biblical derivative of this root
denotes an encamped army.  Nowadays we use the verb khana
with a very limited reference: of the encampment of an army or an organized
group, or of leaving a vehicle in a stationary position, “parking” (to use the
currently appropriate word).  We do not
use it for stopping the motion of a vehicle or any other moving object.  Nevertheless, at the beginning of the
twentieth century, takhana was the
word found suitable, and justifiably so, to denote the regular stopping point
of a public means of transportation, a “station”, in brief.  The formal connection with the mechanism of
classical roots and derivations had not yet been severed.   
But what is takhana
now?  Takhanat
shidur (shidur “broadcast”) “radio
station”; takhanat klita (klita “taking
in”) “radio receiving station”; takhanat
mishtara (mishtara “police”) “police station”; takhanat delek (delek “fuel” “gas”) “gas station”; takhanat sherut (sherut “service”)  “service station”; takhanat rishum (rishum “registration”) “registration post”; takhanat ‘ezra rishona (‘ezra “help, aid, rishona
”first” fem. sing.) “first aid
station,” and so on.
We cannot explain this merely by saying that once takhana meant a station and its meaning
was broadened, or by simply arguing that it became applied to any kind of
station in expressions guided by, or calqued on, foreign models.  This goes much deeper than semantic change or
phenomena of language contact.  But
before we plunge into the depths let us note two simple facts.  First, that takhana has severed its umbilical cord from the inherited root kh-n- just as station has from the Latin stare;
this severance has gone so far as to preclude the location at which the
act  khana
(in the limits of modern usage as outlined above) takes
place, from being termed takhana;
another derivative of the same root is used for that purpose (khanaya
“parking” or, more explicitly migrash
khanaya “parking lot”); motorists may consider a khanaya a desideratum for
every takhana.
The second consideration
is that the facts of contemporary Arabic[8] -
taken as the most notable representative of genealogically related languages –
are really not comparable.  In that language,
a “bus-stop” is still mawqaf
(pronounced moqaf), based on the root
w-q-f 
“stop” and reflecting its connotation. 
The same term is used for a parking lot. 
A railroad station bears neither this name nor any correlation to the
notion of “standing”.  That kind of
‘station” as well as “police station” and, occasionally, a  “first aid station,” is
called markaz, which etymologically
means more or less “point of onset, center of eradiation,” then “center,
headquarters, residence.”  We shall revert to the Hebrew affiliations of this word later.  Markaz
is also used for “bus depot” (to distinguish it from “bus station,” a
distinction not made in Hebrew).  Other
“stations” have nothing to do in current Palestinian Arabic with either of the
two; they may be termed maḥaţţa, a word whose root conveys the notion of “going
down, alighting,” and which seems to expand its use to cases where “station” is
a take-over from a Western language (as in radio station”).
Consequently it seems that Arabic, while still
calling any station a “station,” takes an entirely different attitude towards
the question of what “any” station is. 
Such an attitude cannot be defined otherwise than on the civilizatory
level.  It is Hebrew that takes the
Western point of view (and let it be said that point of view is a technical
term in this context) by considering as “any” station precisely what European
languages consider as “any” station. 
Translate the above-mentioned examples into German, French or Italian,
and you will find easily that all these are ordinarily “stations,” maybe with
some interference produced by French poste.  This is not a question of vocabulary, it is a
question of categorical classification, of conceptualization, and that
reflected by Israeli Hebrew is Western, and it must be stressed, irrespective
of the origin of the speaker.
The establishment of what would be technically called a range of
reference for a given lexical entity in accordance with a foreign model of
pan-occidental validity is, of course, anything but an isolated case.
With sherut “service” we have sherut mdina
“state service,” sherut takhbura “public transportation service,” sherut
shidur “broadcasting organization, broadcasting service,” sherut
khitulim “diaper service,” sherut mekhonot kvisa ( mekhonot “machines,”
kvisa “laundry, washing) “washing machine service,” and let us just
recall here the word for “service station,” takhanat sherut.  It would
be futile to go into any more of these; they are too numerous.  But still, these cases have a history; why do
we have the word sherut for “service”
at all?  In Classical Hebrew sherut denotes, if we are to take an
accepted dictionary definition, “serving, functioning, particularly in holy
office, also for public benefit.”  It is
certainly appropriate to circumscribe all these by the simple word service, and
I would not argue against the statement that classical sherut meant “service.”
Now what our predecessors who are to be credited with
the resuscitation of Hebrew simply did, was this: since we know that Hebrew sherut is English (or French, or
“Franglais”) for service, we conclude
that service is Hebrew sherut!
Within the limits of these pages we cannot go into
any linguistic argument to show how fundamentally wrong such a line of
reasoning is.  Let me rely on the
instinct and intuition of my reader, who has experienced matters of this kind
in any bilingual situation.
 
b. The “Fatal Question”
When Hebrew was revived the question that was asked for
this and for tens of thousands of other words was: “What is X called in
Hebrew?”  (Where X was service, the answer was sherut, where X was station, - takhana; for
X= German fahren – linsoa).  I have, upon other occasions, called
precisely this question la question
fatale in the history of contemporary Hebrew.  It is its fatal impact that
undermined the relational system of concepts in Classical Hebrew and – as one
may retrospectively say with some satisfaction – assured the perpetuation of a
European system of civilizatory concepts within the revived Holy Tongue.[9]
 
c. In What
Way Can We Say that Israeli Hebrew Has Grown out of Classical Hebrew?
Do these reflections bear any conflict with the accepted
notion of contemporary Hebrew having grown out of Biblical and other layers of
Classical Hebrew[10]?  This depends on whether we correctly view the
role of Biblical (and post-Biblical Classical) Hebrew in the process of
revival. The correct interpretation to my mind is this: it was not the Biblical and other Classical texts that served as the
foundation for the reconstruction of the Hebrew linguistic system; the point of
departure for the revival was rather the way these texts were understood and
traditionally interpreted and conceptually digested.  If we accept that this is not necessarily
identical with what these texts mean and may be scientifically be found to say,
and moreover, that their understanding had passed through a notional “sieve”
that was at least as European as not, we shall find that considering Classical
Hebrew as the basis of Israeli Hebrew is not contradictory to viewing the
revival of Hebrew as a process of Westernization, any more than is the Western
character of present-day Hebrew contradictory to its Semitic genealogy.
I wish to dispel any doubt that might have arisen
concerning the choice of the examples cited. 
Although we have used expressions like service station and information
service, it must be stated here that, as a general principle, our
considerations have nothing to do with “modern” or “technical notions,” but are
valid as a tool of analysis for any semantic field observable in the Hebrew
linguistic system.[11]
 
d. Biblical Hebrew Centers More on what
is Happening vs. Israeli Hebrew on the Position of the Narrator
Perhaps our allusion to the relations between vocabulary
entities and conceptual units have not been made sufficiently clear to the
non-professional reader, and some skepticism may remain in his mind.  I would not enter here even upon a
superficial explanation of these intricacies, were it not for the peculiar, but
nevertheless significant, coincidence that the conceptual relations between
English and Hebrew vocabularies served as the very first and representative
example of differences in notional structure between two languages, in one of
the more important modern textbooks of general linguistics.  Its author, H. A. Gleason,[12]
offers as the first exercise in his Workbook,
devised to introduce students to analytical linguistic thought, the following
question:
The four pictures represent four
situations.  Below them are labels giving
verbs that might be used to describe them in English and in Hebrew.  Make a brief statement on the difference in
the English structuring of the content implied in the contrast between come and go and the Hebrew structuring implied in the contrast between bå and yåṣå.
1.      
English comes
Hebrew bå’
2.      
English comes
Hebrew yåṣå’ 
3.      
English goes
Hebrew yåṣå’
4.      
English goes
Hebrew bå’
In translating the Hebrew scriptures
into English, how must one determine whether to use come or go?
 
The required answer about whose accuracy we need not
argue here would emerge from breaking up situations 1-4 into their conceptually
constitutive elements:
1.     
The man turning his face towards the
speaking narrator is engaged in a movement whose initial point is outside the
circumscribed area (house), while its terminal point is inside that area:    comes
= bå’
2.     
The man turning his face towards the speaking
narrator is engaged in a movement whose initial point is inside the
circumscribed area (house), while its terminal point is outside that area:    comes
= yåṣå’
3.     
The man turning his face away from the
speaking narrator is engaged in a movement whose initial point is inside the
circumscribed area (house), while its terminal point is outside that area:    goes
= yåṣå’
4.     
The man turning his face away from the
speaking narrator is engaged in a movement whose initial point is outside the
circumscribed area (house), while its terminal point is inside that area:    goes
= bå’
From this results that what is common to the uses of yåṣå’ and contrasts
with those of bå’, is the common
situational component of Nos. 2 and 3, viz. the motion leading from inside an
area to its outside.  The opposite is
true for bå’.   The choice of bå’ or yåṣå’, respectively,
in Classical Hebrew has nothing to do with whether the movement is directed
towards the narrator or away from him. 
This may be further illustrated by the well-known fact that the Biblical
Hebrew noun for “sun” which frequently occurs with both verbs in contrast, has yåṣå’ for its rising
in the morning, while it has bå’ for
its setting in the evening.
What emerges for English come vs. go is that their
choice is dictated by the position of the viewer relative to the movement (but
in no way relative to the area in reference to which the movement takes place),
which approximately matches current dictionary definitions for English come and go.[13]
This answer clearly refers to Biblical Hebrew (cf.
the concluding instructions[14]
of the exercise); Gleason is one of the few American linguists who, at several
instances of his writings, stresses the structural differences between Biblical
and contemporary Hebrew.  Had this
exercise been given in view of the equivalences of Israeli Hebrew and English –
maybe in that case it would have had no didactic value at all for the purposes
of a course in general linguistics – the captions under the drawings 1-3 would
have to read as follows:
1.     
English come = Israeli Hebrew bå’;
2.     
English come = Israeli Hebrew bå’;
3.     
English go (out) = Israeli Hebrew yatsa’.
It can be suspected at the first glance that current
semantic ranges in Hebrew are re-organized to match European (e.g., English) ones,
since one and the same Hebrew verb matches English come in captions 1 and
2.  As a matter of fact, yåŞå’
and bå’ are no longer contrastive
pairs in Israeli Hebrew; they have two different counterparts; they belong to
two different semantic fields;
 
Field I
Field II
from
  inside area
yatsa’
come out
go out
to goal
  or viewer-speaker
bå’
come
from
  outside area
nikhnas 
come in
go in
from
  point of departure or viewer-speaker
halakh
go
 
It is a logical result from this newly-created
situation that in Israeli Hebrew yåŞå’ may, in many utterances,
be easily replaced by bå’  (just as halakh
may by nikhnas ) without changing
the reality situation referred to, which is absolutely impossible in Biblical
Hebrew: e.g.:
 
ha-‘ish
yatsa’
min-ha-bayit
“The man
went
out of
  the house”
ba’
came
The equivalence of ba’ and come become
fairly obvious; it is a result of a conceptual Westernization in Hebrew.[15]
 
e. Influence of Russian[16]
Western type conceptualization in Hebrew is a process, of
course, of several stages or waves, according to the various waves of
immigration that formed the earlier layers of settlers in this country.  The earliest layer of conceptualization seems
to have been Eastern European-modeled, by now so well-rooted, so thoroughly
absorbed, that some of the subsequent layers of conceptualization tend to
appear as bulks of “Germanisms,” or, much later, “Anglicisms” in contrast to
what is felt by some to be original, not to say primordial, contemporary
Hebrew, that is prevalently Slavic-conceptualized language.
The study of some case-histories of this nature will
allow us an insight into more aspects of semantic restructuring.
A contemporary dictionary would have to list for tnu’a,
apart from a terminological usage stemming from medieval grammar, two
productive ranges of reference: “movement (also social or political)” and
“traffic (of vehicles or travelers).” 
While the conceptual relation between the two can easily be seen, it is
still not found expressed by vocabulary relations in many languages.  The type of language that seems to have
furnished the model for the conceptual relation is Slavic (Russian dvizyéniye “movement” also denotes
“flowing movement of vehicles, traffic” whether úlicnoye “street-“ is expressed or not); Yiddish seems to have been
Slavic-inspired (bevegung in both
senses) and served as a mediator to Hebrew.
These processes have their reflexes in very abstract spheres of human
mental activity.  “Point out verbally” is
letsayen, whose classical meaning is
“to mark.”  The latter use is now
obsolete and taken over by another verb, but persists in a nominal derivation
of the verb, tsiyun “mark (at
school), landmark, act of pointing out.” 
The shift of meaning for the verb, although observable also in the
formal relation prevalent between the French verb marquer and remarquer,
was undoubtedly catalyzed by Russian zamy’cat
“note, notice, remark observe” (cf. German bemerken) which in itself relates to myétka “mark (also at school), sign.”
Merkaz, which is a
medieval takeover from Arabic mathematical and philosophic terminology (markaz “center (of eradiation),” cf. above) had no formally related items in the Hebrew vocabulary
and presented difficulties if a verb were to be formed for the notion of an act
derivable from “center.”  We have now lerakez that denotes two mutually
unrelated notions, that of “concentrating” as well as that of
“centralizing,”  a conceptual liaison
catalyzed again, as it seems, by Russian, where sosry’dotoci(va)t’ carries the same combined range of reference
(“middle”).
The cases of tnu’a and lerakez
just discussed bear resemblance to that of takhana in that the similarity of semantic structure
between Hebrew and another language is observable at the total semantic range
of the lexical unit concerned.  Another
type of semantic structuring lies in considering one notional content as derived
or derivable from another (like the notion of worker from work, which
by the way is not the case in Israeli Hebrew), in contrast to its being
included in a primary, “motivating” content-range as in the case of takhana. 
Conceptual derivability becomes tangible if there is a formal relation
between lexical units concerned.
We have two verbs in Israeli Hebrew, lehatsig and leyatseg, related by the radical element common to both, the
consonantal sequence         –ts-g. 
The first is Classical, in the meaning of “place in a standing position,
put on,” later “present” while the latter is modern, in the sense of
“represent” and has to be considered notionally derivable from the first.  The possibility of basing oneself on such
derivability – irrespective of neo-Latin present
vs. re-present, that cannot have been
present in the minds of the revivers of Hebrew – seems to have been created
through Russian pry’dstavit’
“present, represent, more so since its relation to the verbs “stand” (stoyat’) and “put in a standing
position” (stavit’) may have fostered
the creation of a correlation with lehatsig
in primary sense as motivating form.
 
We have concentrated on certain aspects of vocabulary
for two reasons only, because some had not been coherently presented earlier, and
because facts relating to words more easily guide the non-professional reader
into the line of thought that is essential for our purposes.  But it must in no way be lost sight of that
other areas of linguistic structure are much more material towards establishing
the typology of a language. 
Nevertheless, if we enter into some grammatical features of contemporary
Hebrew we shall do so only very briefly, because a real discussion of the facts
concerned would necessitate so many technical preliminaries that our
presentation might easily explode.
 
f. Israeli Hebrew Three-Tense System:
past, present and future
Israeli
Hebrew has a three-tense system: past, present and future.  This is
consistent with the predominant Western European systems,[17] although
different from Slavic; what is more important, a classification of time into
(a) past, (b) future, (c) what lies between them, is altogether foreign to
Biblical and, as it would seem, post-Biblical Classical Hebrew.[18]
 
g. “Seventh” Personal Form Equivalent
to French on – German man
Israeli Hebrew has fully stabilized what was a commencing
development in post-Biblical Hebrew: a “seventh” personal form beyond the three
persons of the singular and the three of the plural. Widening the scope of the
verbal form that had acquired that use in post-Biblical Hebrew, Israeli Hebrew
now has a full-fledged equivalent for the French on – German man category
in all its breadth and implications, a category so highly important in social
conversation.
 
h.
Preservation of Verbless Sentence[19] Due to Russian Influence
Israeli
Hebrew sentences may be roughly
divided into those that are built around a verb and those that are not: the
Hebrew equivalents for “the army fights furiously” or “faint ideas are useless”
have a verbal form, the one for “green oranges are sour” has not.  It is often said, and perhaps rightly so,
that the very existence of verbless sentences and the possibility of the
dichotomy just mentioned is one of the most striking features by which Hebrew
preserves its non-European, “Semitic” character.  But Slavic languages, and above all Russian,
have the same dichotomy, and what we have just said about the presence or
absence of the verb “to be” in our sample sentences would equally apply to
it.  It is my considered judgment  that maintaining the contrast between verbal
and non-verbal sentence structure was made possible in resuscitated Hebrew
right from its beginnings thanks to the support of Slavic language habits.  
 
i. Western-Type compound Adjectives[20]
One of the more noteworthy features of the educated
style of Hebrew is the existence of compound adjectives exactly corresponding
to bi-monthly, prehistoric,
North-American. This type of adjective, very much en vogue in journalese and educated parlance is a fairly recent
acquisition of Hebrew.  We point to it at
this juncture because this class of word cannot be considered as the linguistic
or cultural property of any specific Western language.  It is an outgrowth of certain properties of
Latin word-structure that made it possible to form compound words beginning
with quantitative (bi‑),
prepositional (pre-) and similar
elements, while excluding this possibility in all other cases like, e.g., red-eyed, horse-driven.  Western languages have made so much use of
these formal possibilities furnished through their Latin heritage, that the
free facility of forming such adjectives has almost become a characteristic
distinguishing mark of a Western-oriented language.
 
j. Styles of Israeli Hebrew
Israeli Hebrew has acquired this facility to such an extent
that these words already escape listing in dictionaries.  The last consideration leads us to another
Western-type aspect of Israeli Hebrew, namely its stratified character;
not only can vulgar, familiar, learned, religious, journalistic, administrative
and other styles be clearly distinguished, but the more noteworthy of their
distinctive traits lie in the morphological and syntactic areas, as is the case
with the European languages of civilization.
 
k. Westernization of “Parts of Speech”
Finally let me present a typologically highly instructive feature
of Hebrew, that nevertheless requires some theoretical explanation.  We shall be concerned here with the division
of language elements into parts of speech. 
A student of Hebrew whose primary tongue is one of the “Western”
languages will pay no attention at all to this matter, finding that a Hebrew
noun matches a German noun and that what corresponds to an English verb will be
a verb in Hebrew.[21]  The uninitiated reader might wonder what this
has to do with a typological characterization of a language, as though the
repartition of the “world” into substantival “objects” or “concepts,” verbal
“actions” or “states,” and adjectival “qualities” were given by the very nature
of things.  But we must call attention
here to the fact well-known to even a tyro in linguistics, namely, that the
division of nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc., and even the very number of word
classes (parts of speech) in a language is characteristic of its formal
structure and not of the universal properties of either the world or the human
thinking apparatus; the divisions of parts of speech create a conceptual
classification but do not reflect objectively given classes.  The almost perfect one-to-one relation
between Israeli Hebrew and Western-European word classes is therefore striking,
the more so, since the parts-of-speech groupings as they stand in Western
language are not a result of a given nature but of centuries-long
development.  Romance languages
contradict their common ancestor in various features in this respect and
represent, most likely, a compromise between the facts of Latin and those of
non-Latin speech systems, that were prevalent in Europe prior to its
Romanization or alongside with it.  The
fact most noteworthy for us, because it has a clear parallel in the development
of Hebrew is that qualities or features apparent in an object (as color,
temperature, strength and the like) were expressed in Latin by verbs, not by
adjectives.  European languages have
undergone a common development that led to expressing this notion by adjectival
means and discarding “verbs of quality” altogether.  The type of notion concerned had verbal
expression in Biblical Hebrew (there is a verb for “be beautiful,” “be strong”
etc., not an adjective for “beautiful,” 
“strong”)[22]
while Israeli Hebrew has lost – in an obvious process of Westernization, and in
contrast, e.g., to Arabic – the quality verbs and has let quality adjectives
grow out of them.  While the same word חזק (Israeli – khazak; Biblical - ḥazaq) would be used for the notion of strength in both
Israeli and Biblical Hebrew in the phrase ve-ha’anashim
khazakim/we-ha’anashim ḥazaqim “…and the men are strong,” transferring the content
of such a clause into the past would entail the addition of the past form of
the verb “to be” in Israeli Hebrew (ve-ha’anashim
hayu khazakim, as in English “The men were
strong”), while in Biblical Hebrew a past verbal ending of the appropriate
person would be added (we-ha’anashim ḥazaqu).  It is
significant that current poetical style has preserved the verbal form as such,
but still cannot run counter to the common trend of the language in preserving
their type of content: they now serve, in that style, not as verbs of quality,
but as verbs of process (“The men became strong”)[23].
The situation in current Hebrew being intrinsically as it has been
set out here, language policy must find itself enclosed in the boundaries
demarcated in the introductory paragraphs. 
Policy-makers – be it intuitively or out of a lack of interest in the
below-surface data of language – seem to feel that the thoroughly Western
character of Israeli Hebrew would cripple any effort to re-imbue Hebrew with
its “ancient” character.[24]  If “purism” were to be defined for the
purposes of Hebrew as a trend to regain an image of language prior to, and
exclusive of, all foreign influences, then not only Western, but any
conceptualization and linguistic mentality framing would be lost for this
language, if any such attempt proved successful.  Let it also be borne in mind – a fact rarely
taken into account – that language policy is conducted in Israel almost exclusively by scholars who, even if they
pretended to be able to, show no signs of freeing themselves of their innate
Western categorization habits. 
Consequently, even the most sincere, thoroughgoing and immaculate purist
language policy will not engage in anything beyond atomized matters pertaining to
grammatical forms, morphological subtleties, vowel and consonant alterations,
grammatical gender, verbal government, uses of prepositions and conjunctions;
but, more deplorably even, purists will engage in questions like how equivalents should be found in Hebrew for such and such
features (like adverbs) apparent in the principal foreign languages.
The internal structure of Hebrew, its conceptual
“form” (to use a Humboltian term) remains thereby untouched.
 
l.
Westernization of Israeli Hebrew Sentence Structure[25]
There
has been a trend, involving some
animated polemics, against too far-reaching periodization of the Hebrew
sentence in intellectual style.  Too intricate
clause chaining is still considered as having a foreign odor, particularly that
of German academic style, notwithstanding the fact that complicated sentence
structure cannot be a characteristic of a language, but only of stylistic
habits and reasoning attitudes of individual writers or types of writing.  Owing to a somewhat misconceived notion of
the nature of Biblical syntax, elaborate syntactic subordination was considered
as intrinsically un-Hebrew, and there still is a much-favored style of narrative
prose, ostentatiously refraining, as much as possible, from clause gradation
(subordinate vs. non-subordinate clauses).[26]  We all seem to feel that certain logical
concepts bear in them the very nature of principality or, on the other hand,
the very nature of subordination.  When
we think of “if it rains, we stay at home” it seems natural to us for the
staying at home to be the dominant content and therefore exclusively
expressible by the independent clause. 
The opposite, however, is true for Biblical Hebrew[27]
(and, incidentally, for some very ancient Indo-European languages as well).
The grading
of logical contents into two classes, and consideration of some of them as
principal by nature, of others as dependant by nature, fundamental and Western
at the same time, is something which purist language policy cannot even think
of discarding.  It would endanger the
very working of our thinking mechanism. 
It is utterly irrelevant in this context whether the graded chains of
clauses are intricate or not; the simplest sentence, as long as it is
structured on a “two-storey” basis will still be un-Hebrew[28].
 
Opposition to Descriptive Studies of Current Hebrew
A singular manner of self-expression on the part of the
purist language policy-maker, about a decade ago, was a demand that the
linguist refrain from descriptive research into current Hebrew.  This demand, occasionally assuming the
finality of a papal interdictum, has been uttered again recently.[29]  Of the reasons given, some are trite, for
example, the argument that descriptive grammars might be considered
prescriptive and therefore mislead learners and corrupt youth, but others are
more noteworthy.  It  has been said upon various occasions that
linguistic research into current  Hebrew
cannot be conducted because Hebrew is not yet stabilized and the publication of
descriptive treatises might serve as a stabilizing factor.  Linguistically it can be said, of course,
that any language is in development at any given time, and can still be
described, and that there is nothing to keep us from re-describing it, should
the changes incurred so necessitate at any given moment.  It may further be argued that , from a purely
theoretical point of view, there must be a “system” of some stability, because
otherwise communication would be impossible and that a linguist is entitled, if
he so wishes, to study established means of communication.  However, a more pertinent and very interesting
question has been asked,[30]
namely, whether study of the degree and speed of linguistic change undergone by
Hebrew in this country would not shed some light  on the question of whether language
description was legitimate or not.
 
3. “Re-Classicization” of Israeli
Hebrew
Although there is no published
material on this aspect I wish to impart some results achieved from a
contrastive observation of “Early Israeli Hebrew” (the written language of the
twenties and thirties) compared to usages of our own generation.  The
contrast is striking; quotations taken from the early layer have either to be
“translated” or reinterpreted, lest the immediate impression they create be one
of ridiculous language.  But a distinct direction can be observed in this
development; while early revived Hebrew is full of anachronisms, reminiscences
from classical sources, words that have become obsolete by now, it is
astonishing how much closer present-day Hebrew is, in morphology and syntactic[31]
constructions, to what is apparent to the linguist in the structure of
Classical Hebrew.
 
While
it is impossible here to substantiate this statement, I wish to offer an
explanation.  When Hebrew became “more living,” it became less
foreign.  Becoming less foreign means absorbing more and more of the
linguistic items that constitute the formal system of Hebrew, so that a
linguistic system can be created that is, in fact, largely a reconstitution of
a considerable portion of the classical system …. Features of modern standard
language that can be considered the result of re-classicization of Hebrew (e.g.
case government, stabilization of syntactical interrelation between verbal
stems, fargoing revival of the distinctions between various types of noun
linking, restriction of adjectives in favour of noun constructions, semantic
shadings, particularly in  the domain of verbs) were hardly ever taught by
normative grammar, since these very notions are largely the result of modern
synchronic descriptive Hebrew linguistics.
 
4. Futility of Puristic Language Policy
The simple conclusion is that the puristic aspect of
language policy is futile.  There could
be another facet of language policy which would be in keeping with policies
conducted in some culturally less-developed countries, aiming at standardization,
at creating a prestige style of linguistic expression, and at leveling out
group distinctions between speakers. 
This aspect is absent from our cultural life, owing to a peculiar
concatenation of circumstances.  The
prestige model of Hebrew (an image, whether well or ill conceived, of what Classical
Hebrew was) existed before there was anything comparable to group speech or
dialects.  The prestige group had been
defined before there was language policy. 
By a singular historical accident the group of speakers[32]
whose speech exhibits more puristically desirable features (“Semitic” tainted
phonetics: preponderance of pharyngealized consonants, “darker” articulation
and lesser discreteness of vowels, more noticeable distinctness of long and
short vowels; on the syntactic level: extremely restricted expression of clause
grading) is considered non-prestige by others, and what is more important
sociolinguistically, by themselves.  It
is the speech habits of groups hailing from Central and Eastern Europe that tend to be imitated by those coming from Oriental
countries, while speech habits fostered by purist language policy-makers will
not be observable normally, other than with “Oriental” subjects.  One will occasionally find a
linguistically-skilled purist using two phonetic styles in speech; one that has
been termed “General
Israeli” – in private and an oriental-tainted one in public.  Some readers may be reminded of a somewhat
comparable situation in Switzerland, where high school students and teachers alike have
a classroom language (Swiss-style Hochdeutsch)
contrasting with what they speak between classes.
 
5. Hebrew Language Policy and Language Teaching
Our discussion has led us to language teaching.  The impact of language policy on language
teaching has been stronger in Israel than in any other country.  Language education of native children bore,
until fairly recently, the character of remedial methods aiming at discarding
“errors” and “incorrect language habits” and accordingly, bore much resemblance
to teaching Hebrew to speakers of a foreign language.  Only in recent years has language teaching
proceeded in Israel on two methodically discrete paths; one, teaching native
speakers using acquired language habits to develop analytic languagemindedness,
relegating the corrective steps to a later and secondary stage; the second,
teaching Hebrew to newcomers, using the results of linguistic analysis to help
them overcome earlier habits and ways of verbal thinking, that are unlike those
of Hebrew.
Although it was said in the beginning with some
optimism that Israeli language teachers are becoming more and more aware of the
importance of scientific tools (contrastive linguistic analysis) for their
purposes, and that they feel, as I do, that the immediate object of their
teaching should be the acquisition by the newcomer of language habits common to
the majority of the residents, while remedies for “undesirable” expression
habits should be offered to them at the same time as to veteran residents or
native speakers, it must be noted that the achievements of linguistic science
are not – due to sociological considerations again – exploited as fully as they
could be.
Hebrew classes and institutes in the large-scale
framework of language education for adults are in fact as much classes of
Israelization as they are language classes. 
One of the most cherished objects of the scheme in Israel is to imbue the participants right away with the
spirit of integration, the “ingathering of exiles.”  It is taboo to hold Hebrew classes for
students originating from a single country; all classes must be ethnically
heterogeneous, immediately creating an “Israeli” society in miniature.  While this procedure is highly commendable
sociologically, it automatically deprives the instructor of the benefits of
present-day didactic linguistics.
The most important tool that has been furnished by
the linguist to language teaching is contrastive analysis, a method enabling us
to formulate the analogous and the non- analogous of any two given languages
and to organize and grade our teaching material accordingly, in view of the
pair of languages constituted by the target language (in our case Israeli
Hebrew) and the primary language of the student.  No scientific appreciation of the relative
difficulty of language features, no scientifically devised language teaching
material are conceivable nowadays unless they are the result of contrastive
analysis, that is, unless they are aimed at students of one mother tongue only.
The consequences of the current system of teaching
Hebrew as a foreign language in Israel are clear, and it is to be deplored that with few
exceptions, the existing situation does not encourage the creation of
scientific teaching materials and didactic tools.  But I am still in a position to conclude this
paragraph more optimistically.  A current
trend is gathering momentum: we have a linguistics-based audio-visual course of
Hebrew which, while still not directed at a single primary language, takes into
account analysis contrastive of Hebrew with English and French; there has been
an attempt at compiling a scientifically-graded textbook directed to
English-speaking students[33];
achievements of students on the higher education level are already tested
separately for speakers of one given primary language.
Without exaggeration it may be said that the problems
of the educated Israeli community in matters of language – peculiar as it may
sound – center around the person of the linguist, who (in whatever shape his
image is conceived) has always commanded a great deal of admiration in Jewish
life.  It is obvious that the future of
Hebrew will not be unaffected by the education and erudition we shall be able
to give to a future generation of Israeli linguists.
 
[1] For more
recent publications and general bibliography see and Contemporary Hebrew by
Haiim B. Rosén Publisher: Mouton, 1977. 
I have corrected obvious
errors and supplied the bolding, headings and table of contents to make this
rich, but discursive and often polemical essay more accessible. See also
The Languages of Israel:
Policy, Ideology, and Practice (Bilingual Education and Bilingualism, 17)
by Bernard Spolsky, Elana Goldberg Shohamy,Multilingual Matters 1999.  This has an extensive bibliography/ DS
[2]
Marginally situated European languages (Turkish, Hungarian, Estonian, Finnish
and some others) are non-Indo-European.
[3] The
term “Semitic” came to supercede, at the end of the 18th century, “Oriental,”
precisely when the interest of Western scholars began to concentrate on
non-Semitic (chiefly Indo-European) Oriental languages.
[4] Cf. Israeli Hebrew by David Tene  DS
[5] “Europe” in
the civilization sense, in order not to repeat “Western”.  “Transatlantic Europe,” of
course, is not excluded.
[6] For
transliteration list see
[7] E.g. Exodus 13:20; Numbers chap. 33 (frequently).
[8] Interestingly,
a well respected scholar of both Hebrew and Arabic has shown the Modern
Standard Arabic has developed in ways very closely paralleling developments in
Israeli Hebrew. See Joshua Blau's book "The Renaissance of Modern
Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic" (Berkeley: UC Press, 1981) DS
[9] “When
speaking of Modern Hebrew as consisting of older Semitic elements and foreign
structure, the issue of relexification may arise. Relexification is the process
wherein a language uses a lexicon from one language overlaid on a grammatical
structure of one or more other languages (Mühlhäusler 1997: 102-108). Wexler
(1990) has gone as far as to suggest that Hebrew in its twentieth century form
is a relexified Yiddish “ from The Emergence of Spoken Israeli Hebrew
by Shlomo Izre’el cf, Language Contact and Lexical
Enrichment in Israeli Hebrew (Palgrave Studies in Language History and
Language Change) by Ghil'ad Zuckermann (Hardcover - January 17, 2004) DS
[10]
Generally, when the author uses the term “Classical Hebrew” he means Biblical
plus Mishnaic Hebrew see.  DS
[11] “Yet the structure of the emerging language was not
and could not have been based upon a preexisting vital Hebrew structure.
Gotthelf Bergsträsser, one of the leading Semitists at the beginning of this
century, defined Modern Hebrew as a “europäische Sprache in durchsichtiger
hebräischer Kleidung” (Bergsträsser 1928: 47; cf. also Rosén 1977: #1.5). A
similar observation had already been made by an internal observer, E. M.
Lipschütz, as early as 1914: 
Our inner language is
not Hebrew, but foreign-jargonic. This truth has to be said, although it is not
pleasant. The inner form of the words is foreign, and the syntax is foreign.
The foreign influence comes from remote languages, most of them Indo-European
(Jüdish-Deutsch, Ladino, Judeo-Persian). The influence of the jargons is not to
be lost with children and children of children, since the children will have
learned the foreign syntactical features within the Hebrew of their parents.
Several years later he speaks of a younger generation for
whom “the colloquial language is now rooted in an inner language.” (Lipschütz
1920: 32). This “inner language” was, of course, Hebrew; but it was a new
Hebrew, structured during the first decades of the emergence of the spoken
language. The generators of this Hebrew were the first group who had this newly
emerged language as their mother-tongue.” From The Emergence of Spoken Israeli Hebrew
by Shlomo Izre’el
[12] His Introduction to Descriptive Linguistics
was primarily devised as a text for his students at the Hartford Seminary, Hartford, Conn.  The specific background of seminary students
is taken into account by giving Hebrew an unusually large role in the
exemplificatory material of this book. 
In reproducing the exercise given below, we have adapted Gleason’s
transcription system of Biblical Hebrew to match ours.
[13]
Quoted from the Oxford Concise Dictionary: “Come:
start, move, arrive towards a point, time or result (often not specified
because obvious, while point of departure, if it matters, is always specified;
cf. go)…” – “Go: start, depart, move, continue moving, with self-originated or
imparted motion, from some place, position, time, etc. (often not specified
because obvious, whereas the goal etc. is always specified if it matters; cf. come)…”
[14]
Gleason apparently had in mind translators’ habits in cases like Genesis 30:16,
where … the Revised Version has “and Jacob came
(for wayåbo’) out of the field in the evening, and Leah went (for wateŞe’)
out to meet him.”
[15] Israeli
Hebrew does not recognize a distinction like German her- vs. hin- (herausgehen, herauskommen vs. hinausgehen, hinauskommen), probably
because such a distinction is not part of the Slavic linguistic system that
stood at the cradle of revived Hebrew. 
May I append a remark aimed at the professional reader to the effect
that ba’ vs. yatsa’ have, in Israeli Hebrew, an aspectual contrast (perfective
vs. cursive) comparable to come vs. go in English, while no such contrast is
apparent in the relation of bå’ vs. yåṣå’ in Classical Hebrew.    
[16] See
also Wexler, P. 1990. The Schizoid Nature of Modern Hebrew: A Slavic
Language in Search of a Semitic Past. (Mediterranean Language and Culture
Monograph Series, 4.) Wiesbaden: Otto
Harrassowitz.
[17]
English has a two-time system (past vs. non-past), but the impact of English on
Israeli Hebrew (twice during its history: British English during the Mandatory
administration of Palestine, and
some amount of stylistic Americanisms as in most countries after World War II) was
posterior to the stabilization of the Hebrew grammatical system.  No interference by English would be likely,
at any rate, with the Hebrew tense system, because the verbal category most
closely linked to the expression of time in English is that of mood (shall love, will love, may love, can love, etc.) and the three Hebrew
tenses express time and modal contrasts indifferently.
[18]
Probably under Aramaic influence, post-Biblical Hebrew developed a system of
durative tenses alongside the original Biblical tenses.  The durative tenses, not unlike English
progressive tenses, were constructed of participles and appropriate tenses of
the verb “to be.”  Since, however, the
present tense, so to speak, of “to be” is zero (that is the construction of the
verbless sentence), the impression was liable to be created that
durative-characterized expressions had three time degrees, while non-durative
ones had only two.  
“Perhaps
even the tense system of Modern Hebrew is, to some extent, due to the blend of
Biblical and Middle Hebrew, although, in the main, it emerged through European
influence. In Modern Hebrew, the suffix tense marks the past, the participle
the present, and the prefix tense the future. In Biblical Hebrew it is a moot
point whether the verbal system denoted time (the so-called subjective time,
i.e., past present and future, referring to the speaker) or aspect (the
imperfective aspect, describing the action during its occurrence, and the
perfective aspect, referring to it as a fact).
I
except myself from treating
this disagreement in opinion, since the revivers of Hebrew understood Biblical
Hebrew as marking time, and shall be content to describe Biblical tense
structure according to the opinion of those who think that it designated time
rather than aspects. Moreover, I shall omit the tenses preceded by consecutive
waw altogether since they do not occur in modern standard. Accordingly, in
Biblical Hebrew the suffix-tense denotes the past, the prefix-tense the present
and the future (we do not deal here with the prefix-tense marking iterative or
durative past). The participle is outside the Biblical tense system proper. A
clause with participle as predicate may, as may any nominal clause, refer to
every time, past, present or future. In Middle Hebrew, on the other hand, the
suffix-tense marks the past, the participle present and future (the
prefix-tense being restricted to modal function and subordinate clauses) .
Accordingly, it is only in Modern Hebrew that present and future are marked by
special forms; in both Biblical Hebrew and Middle Hebrew they are designated by
the same form (by the
prefix-tense in Biblical Hebrew, by the participle in Middle Hebrew). Yet the
need for distinguishing present and future had already started in earlier
layers. In Middle Hebrew this problem was solved by the opposition participle: catid + infinitive, for example, me-avin bata l'-avin atta holekh, w'-li-phne mi atta catid
litten din w'-Heshbon "from where have you come (suffix-tense), where are
you going (participle) and to whom shall you render account (catid + infinite)?", so that the
suffix tense denoted as usual, the past, and the participle emphasized present.
In later language, the prefix-tense, which was used in Biblical Hebrew to mark
both present and future, came to mark emphasized future, which was in Middle
Hebrew denoted by catid + infinitive,
rather than by a simple form. This is already reflected by Massekhet Sofrim:  YHWH malakh, YHWH melekh (i.e., melekh, a substantive, rather than molekh, a participle; as often in Middle
Hebrew this is due to Biblical influence…), YHWH
yimlokh lecolam waced "the Lord has reigned, He is reigning and He
will reign forever". Cf. also the much later w'-hu haya w'-hu howe w'-hu yihye “and He was and He is and He will
be", which exactly reflects the verbal structure used in Modern Hebrew….
It is not unreasonable to assume that, inter
alia, this usage came into being by superposing Biblical structure on
Middle Hebrew pattern: in Biblical Hebrew the prefix-tense denoted present and
future, in Middle Hebrew the participle emphasized present. Therefore, the
participle has come to designate present, limiting the prefix-tense to the
future. Nevertheless, it is very possible that the merger of Biblical and Middle
Hebrew in the modern standard played only a small role in the emergence of the
Modern Hebrew tense structure. It stands to reason that it has emerged mostly
through the influence of European tongues….
As a
rule, Middle Hebrew forms supersede Biblical ones in modern standard, only when
they happen to be "easier". An example is the conjugation of double
verbs according to the analogy of the sound verb; additional examples are the
use of shel phrases, rather than
construct (making the application of special construct forms unnecessary) and
the marking of the pronominal object by et,
rather than by pronominal suffixes (which prevents the necessity of using
verbal forms changed by preceding pronominal suffixes). In Biblical Hebrew the
use of et in such cases is not
exceptional… (while) in Middle Hebrew they are somewhat more frequent, although
pronominal suffixes are also well attested. As a rule, though, Biblical
morphology prevails. 
Quite
different is the situation as to syntax. Biblical syntax, with its preference
for co-ordinated, rather than subordinated, clauses, in which the limits
between co-ordinated and subordinated clauses are often blurred (cf. the use of
w "and" connecting
subordinate clauses with following main clauses), was not fitted for expressing
the needs of modern culture. Middle Hebrew, on the other
hand, much more resembles Standard Average European sentence structure,
exhibiting
many more clear-cut subordinate clauses than Biblical Hebrew. Therefore, the
sentence structure of Modern Hebrew is closer to that of Middle Hebrew, yet, by
the influence of Standard Average European, it has become even more
complicated, as demonstrated by the frequent use of periods. Especially
frequent are conjunctions taken over or modeled on Middle Hebrew (she, and conjunctions exhibiting preposition + she).
These
and other phenomena, which need not be enumerated, make Modern Hebrew a
language so fused from various elements as not to be comparable with Modern
Standard Arabic. Although Modern Standard Arabic has undergone conspicuous
changes ….  compared with the role of
Classical grammar, the importance of other linguistic layers is
but marginal, morphology remaining almost entirely "Classical". The
main difference between Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic is that Hebrew
linguistic structure is binary, opposing Modern Hebrew to nonuniform classical
languages, whereas Arabic linguistic structure is tri-partite opposing Modern
Standard Arabic to the modern dialects on the one hand and to a comparatively
uniform Classical language on the other.”
From
The Renaissance of Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic: Parallels
and Differences in the Revival of Two Semitic Languages by Joshua Blau, Berkeley:
UC Press, 1981
One
should note the rather complex verbal systems of spoken Arabic dialects
expanded through the use of the prefix (imperfect) tense forms preceded by
prefixes.
[19]
See Verbless Sentences in Arabic and Hebrew by Mushira Eid in
Perspectives on Arabic Linguistics III, John Benjamins 1991
[20] “A very important phenomenon, betraying European influence,
has been pointed out by H. Blanc:
...the necessity of translating terms from Standard Average
European (SAE), have resulted in the introduction of prefixes, a type of
morpheme virtually unknown to Semitic languages and for which there is but the
barest precedent in earlier Hebrew; these have been adapted from, or invented
on the base of, existing Hebrew and Aramaic particles or words, or lifted
bodily from SAE, and today form an extremely important and productive part of
the language. Most prefixes are so productive that they can be added, as the
need arises, to almost any noun or adjective. Thus we have-‘i 'un-'or 'dis-' for nouns, bilti
for adjectives (‘i-seder, 'disorder',
bilti-mesudar, 'disorderly'); du  'bi-, di-, as in du-siakh, tlat as in tlat-regel 'tripod'; tut, ' sub-, under-,' as in tut-meymi 'underwater'; beyn, 'inter' as in beyn-lumi,
'international' etc. Of those borrowed outright from SAE we may list pro-and
anti-: pro-aravi 'pro-Arab', anti-mitzri 'anti-Egyptian.' One of the
reasons of the wholesale introduction of prefixes was structurally feasible and
easy, even though quite novel, is the partial resemblance such constructions
bear to the way Hebrew, as other Semitic languages, uses phrases of closely
bound words (the so-called "construct phrases") to form complexes of
noun-plus-noun or adjective-plus-noun: rav-tsdadim,
'many-sided,' literally 'many of sides,' is such a consruct phrase, but rav-tsdadi (same meaning) is formed with
a prefix rav  meaning 'multi- or poly'."…
A
HISTORY OF THE LANGUAGE HEBREW LANGUAGE EDUARD ECHEZKEL KUTSCHER Edited by RAPHAEL KUTSCHER
1982 THE MAGNES PRESS, THE HEBREW
UNIVERSITY,
JERUSALEM
EJ. BRILL, LEIDEN  DS
On the other hand see From THE MODERN ARABIC LITERARY LANGUAGE; Lexical
and Stylistic Developments, Jaroslav Stetkevych, U Chiago Press, 1970, p.
51 for a similar development in Modern Literary Arabic
[21] In
the very few cases in which this is not yet the case, certain syntactic developments
clearly indicate a trend in this direction.
[22]
Biblical Hebrew possesses one “part of speech” less than post-Biblical (and
Israeli) Hebrew, since there is no distinct morphological class of adjectives
(as is the case of some other non-Indo-European language types).
[23]
Israeli Hebrew replacement of stative verbs by adjectives, largely participles
of the stative verbs is similar to the situation in Mishnaic Hebrew see An
Introductory Grammar of Rabbinic Hebrew by M.Pérez Fernández, (translated
by J.Elwolde), Leiden 1997. Paperback 1999, p. 98.  perhaps the choice of going with the Mishnaic
rather than the Biblical model was based on the Western linguistic structural
norm.  DS
[24] Aba
Bendavid, an outstanding Hebrew philologist and active language policy-maker
(as an advisory member of the Hebrew Language Academy, his
is Advisor on Language for the Israel Broadcasting Service), enumerates in one of the most thoroughly
substantiated treatments of the history of Classical Hebrew, thirty
principles of his language policy (“The principles of the revival of
Hebrew”).  These postulates, formulated
on a “good” vs. “bad” or “we should do this, but shouldn’t do that” basis, are quite
contrary to the tenor of our attitude here.
[25] For
Semitic languages see Lipinski 1997 pp. 484 DS
The situation is similar in Modern Standard Arabic see
Joshua Blau's book "The Renaissance of Modern Hebrew and Modern
Standard Arabic" (Berkeley: UC Press, 1981), pp. 60-141.  Blau’s conclusion is - “… it was through the
influence of Standard Average European that the syntax and especially
phraseology in both Modern Standard
Arabic and Modern Hebrew underwent far-reaching changes.  These features, as well as the use of periods
(although they are well attested in earlier stages of Arabic as well), make
Hebrew and Arabic similar to European languages.  Both Hebrew and Arabic exhibit the tendency
of becoming a part of the European language bundle.  In spelling and morphology both Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic have preserved their
ancient character; in other linguistic fields, however they exhibit new layers
in the development of their respective languages.” DS
[26] It is
usually taken for granted by the non-professional observer that if clauses are
graded at all, the number of grades should be two: one clause independent,
reigning; another one additive, dependant, subordinate.  “Original” (i.e. Biblical) Hebrew, however,
while admittedly not showing bipartite grading, was not – as many scholars
believed – devoid of grading, but possessed, as more recent research has shown,
three grades, in that the independent clause may either logically govern the
dependant one or be (logically again) subordinate to it; Biblical Hebrew,
consequently, has subordinate, main and superordinate clauses.
“H. Rosen has noted a far more important phenomenon which
has changed the whole make-up of IH - its syntax.
“The development of the "period" with its many
subordinate clauses has made IH flexible enough to be employed like any other
modern language. To be sure, while IH is to a large extent paratactic, i.e. it
prefers to coordinate sentences, MH is much more syntactic, making use of the
subordinating she in all kinds of
subjunctions. MH has by far still not achieved the flexibility of modern
languages in this respect.
“Rosen is also right in pointing out the fact that this
development went practically unnoticed by the purists.
“As a matter of fact it already was alluded to by M.
Plessner and formulated by the famous Semitic scholar G. Bergstrasser in the
following sentence: "( IH) in fact (is) a European language in a
translucent Hebrew garment with common European characteristics... being Hebrew
but on the surface." There is more than a grain of truth in this statement.
though it is greatly exaggerated. Let us only remember that the morphology, the
very core of the language (as pointed out by A. Meillet), the conjugations, the
declension, the stems, and the noun patterns have scarcely changed. Also, as
far as changes have occurred they are well within the confines of Semitic (see
Blanc's remarks above). In this respect IH is very much like Akkadian, whose
syntax became 'un-Semitic' owing to the influence of Sumerian.
“Even more revealing is the state of affairs in Amharic (thc
official language of Ethiopia) which … is a Semitic language in respect to
morphology, but an African one in its syntax. Both Amharic and, for example,
Neo-Syriac, have become much more 'un-Semitic' in this respect than IH.
“U. Weinreich has pointed out that "the transfer of
morphemes which are as strongly bound as inflectional endings... seem to be
extremely rare" but "interference in the domain of grammatical
relation is extremely common in the speech of bilinguals." To the best of
my knowledge, there is no living Semitic language whose word order has not
changed from that of its parent language. I also doubt whether there is a
Semitic language, except for classical Arabic, where these changes cannot be
traced even in earlier times. Therefore, syntactic change as a yardstick to
measure whether and how far a language has kept (or lost) its Semitic (or
European) structure plays a very modest role. Indeed it is possible to
establish the relationship between, say, a modern Arabic dialect and an
Ethiopic dialect by comparing their morphology.”
[27] The
condition-expressing clause is usually not introduced by any conjunction, while
the clause expressing the conditioned content is dependent (superordinate, see
preceding footnote) upon the first.
[28] “Many of the changes in
both languages mirror parallel processes to the extent that observers not aware
of exact details may infer that the two languages influenced each other. As a
matter of fact, Modern Hebrew did not influence Modern Standard Arabic at all,
and even the direct impact of Modern Standard Arabic on Modern Hebrew was
limited. The features characteristic of both modern tongues result as a rule
from the influence of Standard Average European, developed through permanent
contact between the European languages of whatever origin during generations.
Hebrew was influenced mainly by the East European variety of this standard
(Yiddish and Russian) , by German, French, and (especially later) English;
Arabic has been exposed mainly to the influence first of French and later English"
Nevertheless, the European language "bundle" evinces so many common
features, especially in journalistic style, and the different influences were
so slight that the results were almost identical. The close affinity of both
languages and the basic similarity of the cultural status of their traditional
societies enforced those results….
“…
To sum up: the point of departure of Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic
was rather alike. Both classical Hebrew and classical Arabic were the literary
languages of mediaeval cultures based on religion. These classical tongues
remained open toward their modern variants….
“One
of the main reasons, if not the most important one, for considering Modern
Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic to be separate entities, and not just
variations of their classical predecessors, is the widespread loan translations
from Standard Average European in the domains of vocabulary and phraseology.
Because of loan translations Arabic and Hebrew developed in the same direction,
and sometimes the linguist even wonders whether or not these two languages are
about to become a part of the European language bundle. Not only is the
influence of European phraseology clearly felt in spheres without parallel in
classical Hebrew and in classical Arabic, but it also becomes more and more
conspicuous to the detriment of well-attested classical phrases. As expected,
European influence was especially strong on journalistic style, which is
exposed to the pressure of time when journalists are translating from European
languages. European phraseology has already penetrated belles lettres in both
languages. For a great part of the reading public, newspapers are the main
source of reading, and even authors who have command of a higher variety of
languages, sometimes consider themselves forced to address the public in
journalistic style. Journalistic phraseology penetrates even higher literary
language, since authors, reading newspapers, are influenced by their style. The
influence of European phraseology is the more conspicuous if the author happens
to be educated in one of the European tongues. Small wonder then, that the
impact of Standard Average European is felt everywhere.
The
long list of parallel loan translations from Standard Average European in
Modern Standard Arabic and Modern Hebrew which follows is the result of chance
reading. It demonstrates the extent of European influence and the parallel development
of Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic because of that influence…. Neither
classical Arabic nor classical Hebrew has been sufficiently analyzed to enable
us to know their phraseology in a sufficient manner, nor do we yet possess
historical dictionaries of both languages. Therefore, it is not beyond the
realm of possibility that a feature occurring in Modern Standard Arabic or in
Modern Hebrew and at first glance accurately modeled on Standard Average
European, is already attested in classical literature and has arisen through
parallel development. Yet even in those cases one can attribute the frequency
of a phrase already attested in classical layers of the language to European
influence, which causes an already existing phrase to be used more often….
…
Yet the influence of Standard Averaqe European is not restricted to
phraseology. It is attested, to a smaller extent to be sure, in the field of syntax as well, thus changing the
very linguistic structure of Hebrew and Arabic.
In
both Classical Arabic and Hebrew continuative relative clauses are exceptional,
if they occur at all. Through the impact of Standard Average European,
however, continuative relative clauses have become frequent in both Modern
Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic…. 
In
both Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic ,"such" expressed by
"as" governing a demonstrative referring back (i. e., "such a
thing" being denoted by "a thing like this") agrees with its
head, rather than with the noun to which it refers back. This is presumably due
to the agreement of such words ("such", Fr. Tel, Ger. solcher, Yid. azoyner, azelcher) to their heads in Standard Average European. For Hebrew,
it was H. Rosen who first called attention to this phenomenon…. 
The
adverbial of circumstance in Classical Arabic is … marked by the
accusative….  In Biblical Hebrew, in
which the case endings have disappeared, the adverbial denoting circumstance
has no external mark…. In Classical Arabic, ka
is never use as a marker of adverbials denoting circumstance since in sentences
like fa-qala -l-xalilu li-ibrahima
ka-l-cabithi, ka has preserved the sense of comparison "and al-Xalil
said to Abraham as if he were scoffing" (rather than "said to Abraham
scoffing"). In Biblical Hebrew, to be sure ka essentiae is attested, exhibiting pleonastic ka in various syntactical positions, not
only as introducing the subject or the nominal predicate, but, it seems, also
an adverbial denoting circumstance: k'-shod
mi-sh-shadday-yabho  "it shall
come as a destruction from the Almighty," where k  introduces an adverbial
denoting circumstance rather than a comparison. .Yet not only is this feature
in Biblical Hebrew quite exceptional, but the fact that k may introduce subjects and predicates as well clearly
demonstrates its structurally quite different character. In Modern Hebrew and
in Modern Standard Arabic, at any rate, the use of k/ka  marking adverbials
denoting circumstance is clearly due to the impact of words like as, Yid. vi, Fr. comme, Italian come
denoting both comparison and adverbials of circumstance, and it is also in the
wake of European that Heb. b'tor,
according to a certain understanding of I Chron. xvii 17 k'-tor and mainly by the influence of Yid. betoyras, and Ar. bi-sifa
are used….
In
the classical layers of Arabic and Hebrew too clauses denoting circumstance
may, inter alia, mark contrast. Nevertheless, the very frequent use of temporal
clauses, originally denoting simultaneous action, as designatinq contrast is,
no doubt, due to the influence of European conjunctions as while, Fr. lorsque, tandis que, Ger. wahrend.
In Hebrew, especially in journalistic style,
bo ba-z-z'man she. b' cet she bah ba-sh-shaca she, in Arabic bayna and especially fi Hini an and cala Hini are used.
In
Standard Averaqe European nominal clauses are not numerous. Through the
preponderance of verbal clauses in Standard Averaqe European, there is
the.tendency in Modern Standard Arabic and Modern Hebrew to introduce verbs
into nominal clauses. Arabic uses verbs like maththala,allafa, shakkala…. 
In Hebrew, especially in journalistic style, m'hawwe is very frequent, as in ze
m'hawwe mikhshol "this is a stumbling block.”  Nominal or prepositional phrases, rather than
verbs, are sometimes introduced into nominal clauses. Arabic utilizes  ciba-ratunan  can and bi-mithjabati….
Modern Hebrew, in a somewhat stilted style, sometimes uses b'Hinat/bi-b'Hinat, as ze
b'Hinat mikhshol "this is a stumbling block." 
In
Standard Average European consecutive clauses introduced by “so that”, Ger. so dass. derartiq dass, Fr. (au)tant/tellement que, de sorte que are very
frequent, and it is through their influence that in Modern Hebrew clauses
introduced by b’ophen she are quite
in vogu…. Modern Standard Arabic uses
bi-hadha -l-miqdari Hatta, ila Haddi an, li-dara-jati an ila dara an….The
fact that Hebrew almost consistently utilizes one expression, whereas Arabic
interchanges various phrases suggests that Hebrew has settled on a certain
construction, whereas Arabic is still trying to find its proper expression for
this frequent European construction. Nevertheless, both languages are clearly
developing in the same direction.
In
the Qur'an, final particles are employed to introduce consecutive clauses and
this is the case in Middle Arabic as well. This feature is quite frequent in
Modern Standard Arabic, and it stands to reason that, in the main, it is due to
the influence of European languages….  wa-fi dhati sabaHini-stayaZa -n-nasu
li-yajidu fi-S-SuHufi naba’an xaTiran and one morning people awoke to find
important news in the newspapers." The last example is especially
important since it corresponds exactly to English, in which non-intended result
is especially frequent with "to find", clearly denoting that this
feature is mainly attributable to European influence. And in Modern Hebrew, the
last sentence can be expressed in exactly the same way: u-bhoqer eHad hitcor'ru ha- nashim k'de li-mtzo y'dica Hashubha
ba-cittonim.
In
English and French the so-called "cleft sentence/phrase coupée
(of the type "it was good intention that dictated him these steps,"
Fr. c'est une bonne intention qui lui a
dicté
 cette démarche)are
of high frequency. Through their influence, this construction has penetrated
Modern Standard Arabic as well as Modern Hebrew. In Arabic, to be sure, it is
not altogether alien even to Classical Arabic…. Nevertheless, E. Murqus is
correct in regarding this feature as exceptional and due to foreign
influence….  In Modern Hebrew
journalistic style such sentences are very frequent, as haya ze moshe she-b-ba elay "it was Moshe who came to
me", usually corrected to meshe hu
she-b-ba elay. 
In
all layers of Arabic -- in Classical Arabic, in Middle Arabic, and in modern
dialects -- the same demonstrative may be employed to refer to different
objects.  The clear distinction obtaining
in Standard Average European between this-deixis and that-deixis does not
obtain, and it is the case in Biblical Hebrew too, for example ze yashpil w'-ze yarim "he puts
down THIS and sets up THIS." The speaker concentrates his attention on
different objects one after the other in turn and may, therefore, refer to each
by the same demonstrative. In both Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic
there is a marked tendency to use this- deixis and that-deixis in opposition.
Hebrew uses ze as against hahu "this: that", po as against sham "here: there"…. (Modern Standard) Arabic has huna wa-hunaka "here and
THERE": huna aw hunaka "here or THERE".
In
both Classical Hebrew and Arabic, as a rule, the passive is not used when the
aqent is marked. Yet this construction, which had already become quite usual in
Middle Arabic,is very frequent in both Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard
Arabic. Hebrew utilizes min, cal y'de, Arablc min for marking the
agent of the passive construction….
In
Classical Arabic and Hebrew, when two nouns govern the same nomen rectum, the first noun in
construct, as a rule precedes the nomen
rectum, whereas the second follows it and is followed by a prenominal
suffix referring back to the nomen rectum.
In Modern Standard Arabic (as already in Middle Arabic, further in some Arabic
dialects) and in Modern Hebrew, however, two nouns in construct that express
one notion, are directly followed by the nomen
rectum, as Ar.  taSdir(u)
wa-stiradu -l-intaji  “export and
import of products, Heb. m'nahale
u-phoale bet ha-Haroshet “the directors and workers of the factory", q’tzine wHayyale hayeHida  "the officers and soldiers of the
unit." There is no doubt that this usage is at least partly influenced by
Standard Average European. Closely related to this phenomenon is the use of two
contrasted prepositions preceding the governed noun. It occurs … in Middle
Arabic as well.  Yet its frequent
occurrence in Modern Standard Arabic, as well as in Modern Hebrew is, no doubt,
owing to the influence of Standard Average European. Arabic uses, for example, min wa-ila-l-ciraqi "from and to
Iraq” …. Hebrew has mar’e ma
-sh-she-n-nacase  li-phne --
w'gamme-me’aHore ha-m-matzlema  “it
shows what happens before -- and also behind the camera."
In
the wake of Standard Average European, Modern Standard Arabic and Modern Hebrew
use ,adverbials more frequently than their classical predecessors. They use not
only bound morphemes, as Arabic -an
(kathiran "much") or Hebrew –it
(yaHaasit) "relatively”),
but also free morphemes. Arabic utilizes bi
with an abstract noun, and so does Hebrew (b'-iTTyyut
"slowly", bi-mhirut
"quickly"). Both languages use prop-words, Arabic bi-shaklin, bi-Suratin, bi-Sifatin… ,Hebrew
b’tzura and especially b 'ophen (b’tzura Hophshit/b ‘ophen Hophshi "freely"). Moreover, through
the influence of European tongues, there is a general tendency in both Modern
Standard Arabic and Modern Hebrew to use new prepositions to mark more accurate
relations, as Ar. min ajji
"because of", bi-sha’ni
"on the subject of", li-SaliHi
"to the advantage of”, cala Daw'i
"in the light of", fi/ cala
athari "immediately after", natijatan
li "as a result of", Hebrew bi-dvar
"on the subject of", l’or "in the light of”,  k’totza'a
min "as result of" (some of these prepositions occur in older
layers, yet their frequency is,no doubt, owing to European impact). Similarly,
instead of old opaque conditional conjunctions, new, less arbitrary and more
transparent ones may be used, as Ar. sharTa
an/shariata an, Heb. bi-tnay she,
also b'-miqre she, denoting "on the
condition that", Fr. a condition que,
Ger. unter der Bedingung dass.
At
first glance, it would seem that the changes that have affected Modern Hebrew
under the influence of European tongues are more conspicuous than those
exhibited by Modern Standard Arabic. The fact that Modern Hebrew has become a
spoken language and is, accordingly, used by unlearned people as well, should
have entailed stronger alterations. Moreover, in Israel many immigrants have
been absorbed who came from an assimilated rather than traditional Jewish
environment. These new immigrants have received their education in languages of
the gentile societies in which they grew up, often bringing with them a very
scanty knowledge of Hebrew and Jewish sources. Wehr's statement that Hebrew linguistic
feeling had to be newly created is no doubt correct in the case of these new
immigrants, and since many of them,because of their organizational and
intellectual capacities, have come to occupy important…  positions, their influence on Modern Hebrew
in the direction of excessive europization must not be under-estimated.
(However), the differences between Hebrew and Arabic in this field are, at the
most, quantitative, but not qualitative….
…
both Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic … exhibit the tendancy to become
part of the European lanquaqe bundle. Nevertheless, the allegation that anyone
of them has already become a European language in external disguise, is …
exaggerated, and one should rather consider both Modern Hebrew and Modern
Standard Arabic to be Semitic languages influenced by Standard Average
European. Even features regarded as the most conspicuous manifestations of
European impact in general and Yiddish influence in particular on Modern Hebrew
are not without parallel in Modern Standard Arabic. Thus, very widespread in
Modern Hebrew are sentences like ha-yeled
hu tov "the child is good", which exhibit the copula between a
single subject and indefinite predicate (in accordance with the place of
"is" in many European tongues), rather than after the indefinite
predicate as in Biblical Hebrew (ha-yeled
tov hu. As we have seen, Modern Standard Arabic frequently uses … in
exactly the same position (parallel to Modern Hebrew mehavve), thus exhibiting the influence of the European copula as well
(though, admittedly, the use of Modern Hebrew hu in this position is even more frequent). Similarly the tense
structure of Modern Hebrew has, by the influence of European tongues, undergone
important changes, using the suffix-tense for the past, the participle for the
present, and the less prefix-tense for the future. Yet the tense system of
Modern Standard Arabic has not remained without changes either, though they are
less conspicuous than in Modern Hebrew. A clear tendency obtains not to use the
prefix-tense for the past. Therefore, contrary to genuine Classical Arabic, baynama "while" is followed by
the suffix-tense, rather than by the prefix-tense. There is a stronger tendency
than in the earlier layers of Arabic unequivocally to mark the future by making
sa/sawfa precede the prefix-tense in
many syntactic environments in which they do not ordinarily occur in Classical
Arabic. Thus they are utilized in negative clauses in interrogations and
conditions. Moreover, kana sa preceding the prefix-tense is used, denoting a
determination in the past that was not carried into effect. One of the
outstanding features of Modern Standard Arabic is the use of  raḥa
governing the prefix-tense to mark both ingressive and durative action....
 From The
Renaissance of Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabic: Parallels and
Differences in the Revival of Two Semitic Languages by Joshua Blau, Berkeley:
UC Press, 1981
[29] See 
[30] See
[31]
One that the author does not mention is, the use, iIn Modern Hebrew, of the
normal infinitive as a general imperative, no doubt under the influence of
European languages (eg. German) recreates a major use of the infinitive
absolute in Biblical Hebrew well described by Haiim Rabin (A Textbook of
Israeli Hebrew p. 315) as "...used in commands that are addressed to
nobody in particular, but are valid for everybody; its use is in such cases
comparable to that of the imperative. significantly, an example will be found
in the Decalogue." DS
[32] This
group, which he also refers to as “Oriental” consists of Jews from Arab
countries whose native language is Arabic.
[33] See Textbook
of Israeli Hebrew by Haiim B. Rosén University of Chicago Press 1962. DS