Requests for new languages/Wiktionary Igbo - Meta
Requests for new languages/Wiktionary Igbo
From Meta, a Wikimedia project coordination wiki
< Requests for new languages
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
←main page
Request for a new language edition: Wiktionary Igbo
​
submitted
verification
final decision
This proposal has been approved.The Board of Trustees and language committee have deemed that there is sufficient grounds and community to create the new language project.A committee member provided the following comment: phab:T314635. Jon Harald Søby (talk) 11:16, 5 August 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
The community needs to develop an active test project; it must remain active until approval (automated statistics, recent changes). It is generally considered active if the analysis lists at least three active, not-grayed-out editors listed in the sections for the previous few months.
The community needs to complete required MediaWiki interface translations in that language (about localization, translatewiki, check completion).
The community needs to discuss and complete the settings table below:
What
Value
Example / Explanation
Proposal
Language code
ig (SIL, Glottolog)
A valid ISO 639-1 or 639-3 language code, like "fr", "de", "nso", ...
Language name
Igbo
Language name in English
Language name
Igbo
Language name in your language. This will appear in the language list on Special:Preferences, in the interwiki sidebar on other wikis, ...
Language Wikidata item
Q33578 - item has currently the following values:
English label: Igbo
native label (P1705): Asụsụ Igbo, Igbo
instance of (P31)/subclass of (P279): language, modern language / Igboid, Kwa, Benue–Congo
Wikimedia language code (P424): ig
writing system (P282): Igbo alphabet
number of speakers, writers, or signers (P1098): 27,000,000
Item about the language at Wikidata. It would normally include the Wikimedia language code, name of the language, etc. Please complete at Wikidata if needed.
Directionality
LTR
Is the language written from left to right (LTR) or from right to left (RTL)?
Links
Links to previous requests, or references to external websites or documents.
Site URL
ig.wiktionary.org
langcode.wikiproject.org
Settings
Project name
Wikshọnarị
"Wiktionary" in your language
Project namespace
Wikshọnarị
usually the same as the project name
Project talk namespace
Kwuookwu_Wikshọnarị
"Wiktionary talk" (the discussion namespace of the project namespace)
Enable uploads
no
Default is "no". Preferably, files should be uploaded to Commons.If you want, you can enable local file uploading, either by any user ("yes") or by administrators only ("admin").Notes: (1) This setting can be changed afterwards. The setting can only be "yes" or "admin" at approval if the test creates an Exemption Doctrine Policy (EDP) first. (2) Files on Commons can be used on all Wikis. (3) Uploading fair-use images is not allowed on Commons (more info). (4) Localisation to your language may be insufficient on Commons.
Optional settings
Project logo
File:Wiktionary logo Ig.svg
This needs to be an SVG image (instructions for logo creation).
Default project timezone
Africa/Lagos
"Continent/City", e.g. "Europe/Brussels" or "America/Mexico City" (see list of valid timezones)
Additional namespaces
For example, a Wikisource would need "Page", "Page talk", "Index", "Index talk", "Author", "Author talk".
Additional settings
Anything else that should be set
submit Phabricator task. It will include everything automatically, except additional namespaces/settings. After creating the task, add a link to the comment.
Proposal[edit]
Hello Everyone!
Igbo language is spoken by more than 44 million people all over the world and it has rich vocabulary with different dialects. In the past one year there has been much activity on the Igbo Wiktionary test project and the content is increasing rapidly.
In summary, I would say that this test project (Igbo Wiktionary) has a so much potentials so I would request that it be approved. 
--Uzoma  19:20, 16 January 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Discussion[edit]
I remember the time when the Igbo Wikipedia had exactly one article. Things look so much better now, as they look for projects in African languages in general. Just one thing: as far as I could find out, you, Uzoma, seem to be the only regular contributor to the Igbo Wiktionary. Is that correct? Steinbach (formerly Caesarion) 16:46, 20 January 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Steinbach (formerly Caesarion) I would say yes for now to your question, but soon we will have more regular contributors and even an administrator. Just like the Igbo Wikipedia, we will make it happen.
--Uzoma  22:16, 20 January 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Support --Rubbish computer (Talk: Contribs) 16:04, 25 October 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Support in my official capacity as the Program Officer for the Rapid Grants program. The Igbo Wikimedians User Group has been able to support good community engagement on this Wiktionary project over a significant part of the past year, both supported by grants as well their own voluntary initiatives. There are also additional, regular contributors now, including Oby Ezeilo and Obihoja. I JethroBT (WMF) (talk) 07:58, 25 June 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
 Strong support As a test Wiki administrator i equally want to appreciate Igboanude a retiree and the oldest Igbo Wiki editor who has been adding content and editing the igbo Wiktionary.--Oby Ezeilo (talk) 14:19, 1 July 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Settings[edit]
Hello. We still need to know the settings for the project namespace, its talk pages, and the logo preferably in an SVG version. --MF-W 12:04, 6 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
@Igboanude, Oby Ezeilo, Timzy D'Great, Queenbella001, Lebron jay, Martins202, Nwonwu Uchechukwu P, Austine E Raph, Chrysella, and Juliegwen:@Akwugo, Chikeme Chizurum, Love4sure, Olugold, Iwuala Lucy, Chidimmanwaeze22, Accuratecy051, Palow s coba11, Samstringz, Sayvhior, Senator Choko, and Viva33:@Daberechi16, Dera xoxo, Zilzy, Austine E Raph, Kingsley Nkem, and Efoby: As asked here, how to translate the "Wiktionary:" and "Wiktionary_talk:" namespaces in Igbo? (boldly replaced the logo field to svg one) --Liuxinyu970226 (talk) 01:58, 10 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Hello, In Igbo Language Dictionary is called akwụkwọ nkọwaokwu, but I prefer spelling wiktionary in Igbo (Wikshọnarị) to make it stand out from other dictionaries. Furthermore will like the logo to carry a touch of the Igbo alphabets.  For the talk page, we can translate it as ebe nkwupụta okwu or ekwumekwu.Oby Ezeilo (talk) 13:54, 11 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
So what should be the project_talk? ebe nkwupụta okwu Wikshọnarị? ekwumekwu Wikshọnarị? Wikshọnarị ebe nkwupụta okwu? ekwumekwu Wikshọnarị? --Liuxinyu970226 (talk) 23:32, 14 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
The logo says "Wikshọnarị". Please confirm that that is the translation of "Wiktionary" you want to use for the ig.wiktionary domain and if "Okwu Wikshọnarị" is the appropriate translation of "Wiktionary talk:" namespace then. Ping User:Oby Ezeilo, User:Igboanude --MF-W 13:00, 16 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Note: If Olugold said well in the Wikiquote request, it looks like "Ńkàtá_Wikshọnarị" would be better than "Okwu". Liuxinyu970226 (talk) 14:01, 17 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Please Note: In Igbo Language, Nkata or Mkparịtaụka means Discussion and not Talk. We can leave it at kwuookwu Wikshọnarị (Its a short sentence that represents ekwumekwu or nkwupụta okwu while ebe nkwupụta okwu means where you can speak/talk) --Oby Ezeilo (talk) 11:36, 19 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Talk-kwuookwu/kwupụta okwu Akwugo (talk) 20:38, 24 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Wiktionary-wikishọnarị Akwugo (talk) 20:39, 24 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
And then, which timezone to use? Is "Africa/Abuja" from Wikiquote ok or not? --Liuxinyu970226 (talk) 01:28, 25 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Retrieved from "https://meta.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Requests_for_new_languages/Wiktionary_Igbo&oldid=23923245"
Category: Approved requests for new languages
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Content pageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageWikimedia NewsTranslationsRecent changesRandom pageHelpBabel
Community
Wikimedia Resource CenterWikimedia ForumMailing listsRequestsBabylonReportsResearchPlanet Wikimedia
Beyond the Web
Meet WikimediansEventsMovement affiliatesDonate
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this page
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other languages
Add links
 This page was last edited on 12 October 2022, at 20:09.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Privacy policy
About Meta
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement