Putin calls for Russian alternative to Wikipedia
Topics
Week's top
Latest news
Unread news
Subscribe
Science X Account
Remember me
Sign In
                           Click here to sign in with
                               
                                   or
                                
Forget Password?
Not a member?
                           Sign up
Learn more
Automotive
Business
Computer Sciences
Consumer & Gadgets
Electronics & Semiconductors
Energy & Green Tech
Engineering
Hardware
Hi Tech & Innovation
Internet
Machine learning & AI
Other
Robotics
Security
Software
Telecom
share this!
1
2
Share
Email
Home
Internet
                                                        November 5, 2019
                                                        
                                                    
Putin calls for Russian alternative to Wikipedia
                The Russian government plans to allocate nearly 1.7 billion rubles ($26.7 million) towards a Russian online reference resource similar to Wikipedia in the next three years, according to government documents published in September 2019
             
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday called for the creation of a more "reliable" national version of the online encyclopaedia Wikipedia.
                                              
The president told a Kremlin meeting of a committee on the future of the Russian language: "As for Wikipedia... it's better to replace it with the new Big Russian Encyclopaedia in electronic form," RIA Novosti news agency reported.
"At least that will be reliable information, presented in a good, modern way."
Putin was referring to a Russian encyclopaedia that came out between 2007 and 2014 and is currently only available in paper form.
The government plans to allocate nearly 1.7 billion rubles ($26.7 million) towards a Russian online reference resource similar to Wikipedia in the next three years, according to government documents published in September.
Putin was responding to a comment by a university rector who complained about the use of Wikipedia by courts to reach verdicts.
The widely used Russian-language Wikipedia, known as Vikipedia, says it has more than 1.5 million articles.
In 2015, Russia briefly banned Wikipedia over an entry on a form of cannabis.
Putin made the call after a controversial law entered force last week on the creation of an internet network that can be isolated from international servers and filtered to prevent users accessing banned sites.
                                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                © 2019 AFP
                                            
Citation:
                                                Putin calls for Russian alternative to Wikipedia (2019, November 5)
                                                retrieved 3 September 2023
                                                from https://techxplore.com/news/2019-11-putin-russian-alternative-wikipedia.html
                                            
                                            This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no
                                            part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
                                            
Explore further
Russia lifts Wikipedia ban after it edits drugs entry (Update)
4 shares
Facebook
Twitter
Email
 Feedback to editors
Featured
Last Comments
Popular
Scientists create soft and scalable robotic hand based on multiple materials
Sep 2, 2023
1
A bipedal robot that can walk using just one actuator
Sep 1, 2023
0
An energy-efficient object detection system for UAVs based on edge computing
Sep 1, 2023
0
An affordable and scalable strategy to fabricate efficient silicon heterojunction solar cells
Aug 31, 2023
0
Nineteen researchers say AI is not sentient—not yet
Aug 30, 2023
11
 
Tech's carbon footprint: can AI revolutionize responsibly?
15 hours ago
 
Scientists create soft and scalable robotic hand based on multiple materials
Sep 2, 2023
 
A smart color-changing flexible battery with ultra-high efficiency
Sep 1, 2023
 
A bipedal robot that can walk using just one actuator
Sep 1, 2023
 
Researchers propose linear scan-based vat photopolymerization for 3D printing ultra-high viscosity resin
Sep 1, 2023
 
Under the sea: Can solar-powered underwater vehicles help us better understand our oceans?
Sep 1, 2023
 
Brain-inspired learning algorithm realizes metaplasticity in artificial and spiking neural networks
Sep 1, 2023
 
Team simulates collective movement of worm blobs for future swarm robotic systems
Sep 1, 2023
 
An energy-efficient object detection system for UAVs based on edge computing
Sep 1, 2023
 
Consumers as likely to buy products advertised by AI-influencer models as those advertised by humans, research says
Aug 31, 2023
Related Stories
 
Russia lifts Wikipedia ban after it edits drugs entry (Update)
Aug 25, 2015
 
Controversial Russian law to control internet enters force
Nov 1, 2019
 
Wikipedia 'doing very well financially': co-founder
May 16, 2019
 
Putin signs controversial internet law
May 1, 2019
 
Russia to release 100 illegally captured whales
Jun 20, 2019
 
Hackers tweet resignation of Russian PM
Aug 14, 2014
Recommended for you
 
A system to keep cloud-based gamers in sync
Aug 31, 2023
 
TP-Link's Tapo smart bulb found to be vulnerable to hackers
Aug 24, 2023
 
Google algorithm found to overlook Spanish speakers in online SNAP ads
Aug 10, 2023
 
Researchers devise algorithm to break through 'search bubbles'
Jul 10, 2023
 
Lasers enable internet backbone via satellite, may soon eliminate need for deep-sea cables
Jun 20, 2023
 
Team sets new speed record for industry standard optical fiber
May 30, 2023
Load comments (0)
 
Let us know if there is a problem with our content
Use this form if you have come across a typo, inaccuracy or would like to send an edit request for the content on this page.
For general inquiries, please use our  contact form.
For general feedback, use the public comments section below (please adhere to guidelines).
Please select the most appropriate category to facilitate processing of your request
 -- please select one -- 
Compliments / Critique
Typos / Errors / Inaccuracies
Edit / Removal request
Your message to the editors
Your  email  (only if you want to be contacted back)
Send Feedback
Thank you for taking time to provide your feedback to the editors.
Your feedback is important to us. However, we do not guarantee individual replies due to the high volume of messages. 
E-mail the story
Putin calls for Russian alternative to Wikipedia
Your friend's email
Your email
                                            I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more
Your name
Note
                                            Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose. The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Tech Xplore in any form. 
                                        
Your message
Send
Phys.org
Daily science news on research developments and the latest scientific innovations
Medical Xpress
Medical research advances and health news
Science X
 The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web
Newsletters
Subscribe
                                            Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
                                        
Follow us
Top
Home
Search
Mobile version
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Science X Account
Premium Account
Newsletter
Archive
Android app
iOS app
RSS feeds
Push notification
© Tech Xplore 2014 - 2023 powered by Science X Network
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Your Privacy
                    This site uses cookies to assist with navigation, analyse your use of our services, collect data for ads personalisation and provide content from third parties.
                    By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Privacy Policy
                    and Terms of Use.
                
I'm OK with that
Cookie options
E-mail newsletter
Subscribe
Follow us