Career Guidance And Counseling Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Career Guidance And Counseling4,877 FollowersRecent papers in Career Guidance And CounselingTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleStrong Interest Inventory ® Test General Occupational Themes (GOTs)There are six Strong Interest Inventory test General Occupational Themes (GOT’s), and these Themes play a precise and significant role in differentiating and interpreting Strong Interest Inventory results and scores. General Occupational... moreThere are six Strong Interest Inventory test General Occupational Themes (GOT’s), and these Themes play a precise and significant role in differentiating and interpreting Strong Interest Inventory results and scores. General Occupational Themes consist of six categoriesSave to LibraryDownloadby Jonathan Bollag•  19  Psychology, Personality Psychology, Personality, Career Guidance CounselingCareer Decision-Making Attribution and Self Efficacy: The Moderating Role of Emotional IntelligenceIt is known that gifted high-school students tend to have difficulty in choosing career due to their wide-range interests and capabilities. In order to successfully making an appropriate career choice, having a high level of career... moreIt is known that gifted high-school students tend to have difficulty in choosing career due to their wide-range interests and capabilities. In order to successfully making an appropriate career choice, having a high level of career decision making self-efficacy (CDMSE) is an important precondition. CDMSE is the belief in one's ability to successfully complete the task necessary to make career-related decisions. Of several factors known to be affecting CDMSE, previous study has shown that career decision-making attribution (CDMA) could affect students CDMSE. However, the CDMA effect on CDMSE in gifted student is seemed to be related to personal trait of students, namely emotional intelligence (EI). Therefore, this study aims to examine the moderating role of EI on the impact of gifted high-school student CDMA on CDMSE. Subjects in this study were gifted high school students (N = 165; 52.12% males; M-age = 16.20 years old) in Jakarta. The measurement tools used are CDMSE Scale Short-Form, Assessment of Attribution for Career Decision Making, and Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire Short-Form (TEIQue-SF) adapted into Indonesian language. The data were analyzed using simple regression analysis with Hayes PROCESS model. It was found that there is a direct effect of CDMA on CDMSE with (F (1,163) = 10.6661, p = .0033 < .001), in which CDMA serves as a predictor of CDMSE. We also found that EI can serve as a predictor of CDMSE (F (1,163) = 10.6661, p = .0007<.001. However, EI did not moderate the CDMA-CDMSE relation. Discussion, limitations, and suggestions for further research are listed. Abstrak Siswa berbakat di jenjang sekolah menengah atas (SMA) cenderung mengalami kesulitan dalam memilih karier karena beragamnya minat dan kemampuan yang dimiliki. Agar dapat berhasil membuat pilihan karier yang tepat, adanya efikasi diri yang tinggi untuk membuat keputusan karier (CDMSE) menjadi penting. CDMSE adalah keyakinan diri seseorang untuk berhasil menuntaskan tugas yang diperlukan terkait pembuatan keputusan karier. Dari beberapa faktor yang mempengaruhi CDMSE, penelitian sebelumnya menunjukkan bahwa atribusi atas pengambilan keputusan karier (CDMA) dapat mempengaruhi CDMSE siswa. Namun, efek CDMA pada CDMSE, khususnya pada siswa berbakat berkelindan dengan karakteristik pribadi siswa berupa kecerdasan emosi. Oleh sebab itu, penelitian ini bertujuan untuk menguji efek moderasi dari kecerdasan emosi dalam hubungan antara CDMA dan CDMSE pada siswa SMA berbakat. Penelitian dilakukan pada siswa SMA berbakat (N = 165; 52.12% laki-laki; M-usia = 16.20 tahun) di Jakarta dengan alat ukur berupa skala CDMSE short-form, skala Assessment of Attribution for Career Decision Making, dan skala Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire Short-Form (TEIQue-SF) yang diadaptasi ke Bahasa Indonesia. Analisis data dengan teknik sederhana regresi menggunakan model PROSES Hayes menunjukkan bahwa terdapat efek langsung CDMA terhadap CDMSE (F (1,163) = 10,6661, p = 0,0033 <0,001), di mana CDMA berfungsi sebagai prediktor dari CDMSE. Kecerdasan emosi juga berfungsi sebagai prediktor CDMSE (F (1,163) = 10,6661, p = 0,0007, <0,001 tetapi tidak memoderasi hubungan antara CDMA dan CDMSE. Diskusi, limitasi, dan saran penelitian terlampir. Kata kunci: career decision-making attribution; career decision making self-efficacy; emotional intelligenceSave to LibraryDownloadby Romy Prianto and +1Shahnaz Safitri•  4  Emotional intelligence, Career Guidance And Counseling, Giftedness, GiftedSchool Counselors as Social Capital: The Effects of High School College Counseling on College Application Rates... 2005; Cabrera &amp; La Nasa, 2000, 2001; McDonough, 2005b; Perna, 2000; Perna et al., 2008). Although there has been much written about the influence of school counselors on the college choice process, there is limited empirical... more... 2005; Cabrera &amp; La Nasa, 2000, 2001; McDonough, 2005b; Perna, 2000; Perna et al., 2008). Although there has been much written about the influence of school counselors on the college choice process, there is limited empirical evidence with large samples Julia Bryan, ...Save to Libraryby Julia A Bryan•  20  Adult Education, Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance, College AccessInfluence of Career Self-Efficacy Beliefs on Career Exploration Behaviours among TVET College Students in Wollega Zones TownArticle Information The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which influence of career self-efficacy beliefs on career exploration behaviour of TVET college students. A total 238 TVET college students from the three... moreArticle Information The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which influence of career self-efficacy beliefs on career exploration behaviour of TVET college students. A total 238 TVET college students from the three Wollega Zone were selected using multistage sampling methods. The instrument of data collection was self-report questionnaire were career self-efficacy adapted (Nasta, 2007), and Career Exploration behaviour (Stumpf et al., 1983). Data was analyzed using Pearson correlation for career self-efficacy beliefs and career exploration behaviour, and regression analysis used to predicate influence of career self-efficacy on career exploration behaviour. Result of research indicated that career self-efficacy sources were positive influenced and statistical significantly correlated with career exploration behaviour(r= .408, P&lt;.01). The career self-efficacy has positive and strong statistically significant association with past performances accomplishment of the...Save to LibraryDownloadby Tefera Feyissa•  10  Higher Education, Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Career Guidance And Counseling, Learning And Teaching In Higher EducationCareer Decision-Making Attribution and Self Efficacy: The Moderating Role of Emotional IntelligenceIt is known that gifted high-school students tend to have difficulty in choosing career due to their wide-range interests and capabilities. In order to successfully making an appropriate career choice, having a high level of career... moreIt is known that gifted high-school students tend to have difficulty in choosing career due to their wide-range interests and capabilities. In order to successfully making an appropriate career choice, having a high level of career decision making self-efficacy (CDMSE) is an important precondition. CDMSE is the belief in one’s ability to successfully complete the task necessary to make career-related decisions. Of several factors known to be affecting CDMSE, previous study has shown that career decision-making attribution (CDMA) could affect students CDMSE. However, the CDMA effect on CDMSE in gifted student is seemed to be related to personal trait of students, namely emotional intelligence (EI). Therefore, this study aims to examine the moderating role of EI on the impact of gifted high-school student CDMA on CDMSE. Subjects in this study were gifted high school students (N = 165; 52.12% males; M-age = 16.20 years old) in Jakarta. The measurement tools used are CDMSE Scale Short-F...Save to LibraryDownloadby Shahnaz Safitri•  5  Emotional intelligence, Career Guidance And Counseling, Giftedness, GiftedFinlay, L., Madill, A. (2009) Relational centred qualitative research for psychotherapists and counsellors. Chapter 10: Analysis of data (pp.145-158).In chapter 10, Linday Finlay writes with Anna Madill , to describe and explain some different ways to analyse data. Four contrasting types of analysis are outlined with practical exemplars: narrative, thematic, discursive and creative.... moreIn chapter 10, Linday Finlay writes with Anna Madill , to describe and explain some different ways to analyse data. Four contrasting types of analysis are outlined with practical exemplars: narrative, thematic, discursive and creative. Each type of analysis highlights different aspects and so enables different insights. As such, qualitative analysis is always tentative, partial and emergent....Save to LibraryDownloadby Anna Madill•  60  Clinical Psychology, Social Research Methods and Methodology, Research Methods and Methodology, Domestic ViolenceCareer Roadmap Guide for EngineersEDITOR NOTE It is indeed a great pleasure to edit a book which has been long desired by every fresh graduate engineer and engineering professional. Career counseling has a long history within the field of professional counseling and plays... moreEDITOR NOTEIt is indeed a great pleasure to edit a book which has been long desired by every fresh graduate engineer and engineering professional. Career counseling has a long history within the field of professional counseling and plays important role in every society by guiding students, engineers to applyacademic and employability skills. Employers have reported that the most important skills employees need more include technical skills, reading, writing and communication skills. A person's career is one of the most important life activities occupying nearly half of an adult life. When enjoyed, a career can bring satisfaction and happiness, contribute to higher self-esteem, and ultimately aid to a healthy life adjustment to the society and country. Author has made excellent efforts to provide educational and informational material related to engineering career based on his own knowledgeand experience. Pre-Engineering Students, Undergraduate Engineering Students, Freshly Graduating Engineers, Practicing Engineers, Computer Professionals and Information Technologist may find book valuable with a view to careerprospects and getting better job opportunities in the field of engineering and let them fly their career by 360º. It is a well-established fact that change begins when you start trying.As Bill Gates rightly said" I am not in competition with some one else but myself. My Goal is to beat my last performance". Being editor, I welcome suggestions for improvement of subsequent printings and editions.Engr. Prof. Dr B.S ChowdhrySave to LibraryDownloadby Bhawani Shankar Chowdhry•  7  Wireless Sensor Networks, Ecommerce, Career Guidance And Counseling, Digital Signal processing (Engineering) (Engineering) (Engineering)Students’ Patronage of Guidance and Counselling Services in Senior High Schools in GhanaGuidance and counselling services are extensively known to be advantageous in shaping the decision making and thinking capabilities of both students and even people at work places. However, the services appears to be lacking in Senor High... moreGuidance and counselling services are extensively known to be advantageous in shaping the decision making and thinking capabilities of both students and even people at work places. However, the services appears to be lacking in Senor High Schools (SHSs) in Ghana. This study explored students' patronage of guidance and counselling services in SHSs in Ghana. The study further identified the factors affecting students' patronage of guidance and counselling services. The study was targeted to Form 2 and 3 students. Using a cross sectional design, 24 SHSs were selected out of 475 through a multi-stage sampling technique. The final sample made up of 2,969 Form 2 and 3 SHS students with a return rate of 98.25 percent. Survey questionnaire was used asthe main data collection instrument. The data was analysed using percentages and frequency counts, as well as one-sample t-test analysis. It was found that students are aware of the presence of guidance and counselling services (educational counselling especially) in their schools. However, the patronage of the services was low due to factors like accessibility of the services, misconceptions held by the students, issues of confidentiality, and counselloras teacher. The study recommended that GES together with headteachers of SHSs to provide guidance and counselling facilities and logistics which enhances the work of the counsellor. Again, the GES is advised not to allow counsellors posted to schools to engage in any teaching activities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joshua-Luther N D O Y E Upoalkpajor•Career Guidance And CounselingSchool Counselors as Social Capital: The Effects of High School College Counseling on College Application RatesUsing social capital theory as a framework, the authors examined data from the Educational Longitudinal Study (ELS: 2002) to examine how student contact with high school counselors about college information and other college-related... moreUsing social capital theory as a framework, the authors examined data from the Educational Longitudinal Study (ELS: 2002) to examine how student contact with high school counselors about college information and other college-related variables influence students’ college application rates. In addition to some college related variables, the number of school counselors, and student contact were significant predictors of college application rates.  Implications for school counselors and counselor training are included.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julia A Bryan•  134  Sociology, Rural Sociology, Psychology, Teaching and LearningΕπενδύοντας στο απρόοπτο: Η Μαθησιακή Θεωρία του Τυχαίου ως κλειδί για τη διαχείριση της σταδιοδρομίας (Capitalizing on happenstance: Happenstance Learning Theory as a key for career management (In Greek)Save to LibraryDownloadby Andronikos C Kaliris and +1Marianna Mikou•  8  Psychology, Education, Higher Education, Self-EfficacyDISCUSSION FORUM FOR STUDENTS AND FACULTY﻿This project entitled “Discussion Forum for Students and Faculty” is a medium to connect the current college students with the passed out students. This web application allows the former students to post the jobs in their working... moreThis project entitled “Discussion Forum for Students and Faculty” is a medium to connect the current college students with the passed out students. This web application allows the former students to post the jobs in their working environments, In the walk in dates preparation documents, career development discussion and even can guide the students achieve more on their career. Students can post their clarifications and they can get help from the former students who are working professionals in IT sector. The college management will create accounts for the students after they passed out their accounts will be converted former students account. After creating an account for the students they can post questions study materials they can even ask questions or start a topic by mentioning the passed out students. The main advantage of the project is to guide the student to achieve more in their career by connecting them with the former students who are currently got placed in various working environments. Moreover, this portal will control the students for unnecessary chatting with their friends.Save to LibraryDownloadby IJCSMC  Journal•  14  Computer Science, Information Technology, Technology, Computer Science EducationLibrat më të mirë për të përshpejtuar karrierën tuaj.Leximi është një mënyrë e tillë që të ndryshon jetën, e aksesueshme , për të rritur njohuritë tuaja dhe për t'u përfshirë në vetë-zbulim të fuqishëm. Tani me audiobooks dhe podcast-të në rritje, materiali i shkruar është më i aksesueshëm... moreLeximi është një mënyrë e tillë që të ndryshon jetën, e aksesueshme , për të rritur njohuritë tuaja dhe për t'u përfshirë në vetë-zbulim të fuqishëm. Tani me audiobooks dhe podcast-të në rritje, materiali i shkruar është më i aksesueshëm se kurrë, madje edhe për njerëzit që luftojnë me aftësinë e të lexuarit. Warren Buffet, investitori prodhues, dikur, pohoi se ai shpenzon rreth 80% të ditëve të tij thjesht duke lexuar dhe duke menduar. Emilie, një autore dhe krijuese e BOSSED UP, shprehet: "Të jem e sinqertë, të lexuarit rregullisht nuk më erdhi natyrshëm. Unë jam një person hiperaktiv. Më pëlqen të luaj jashtë, gjithmonë më ka pëlqyer. E urreja leximin, sepse urreja të qëndroja pa lëvizur, e qetë dhe e vetme me veten time. Dhe në moshën njëzet e pesë vjeçare, kjo ia vlente të hulumtohej. Çfarë kisha aq frikë të mësoja për veten time? Librat janë bërë që atëherë, një përshpejtues i rregullt për karrierën, biznesin dhe jetën time. Ndërkohë, dua të ndaj me ju disa nga librat e mi të preferuar për të përshpejtuar karrierën dhe jetën tuaj.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jonida Gjuzi•  4  Career Management, Career Guidance And Counseling, Career Development, Career ChoiceA palyavalasztasi tanacsadok tevekenysegenek es tortenetenek attekinteseSave to LibraryDownloadby Irén Sipeki•Career Guidance And CounselingPályakonstrukció és pályaalkalmasságA pályaválasztással, pályafutással kapcsolatos diskurzusban számos fogalmat használunk az egyé-ni életút lefedésére. Ezen fogalmak összefoglalásaként jelent meg a kétezres években a lifelong guidance (LLG; lásd: Council of the European... moreA pályaválasztással, pályafutással kapcsolatos diskurzusban számos fogalmat használunk az egyé-ni életút lefedésére. Ezen fogalmak összefoglalásaként jelent meg a kétezres években a lifelong guidance (LLG; lásd: Council of the European Union, 2004; Borbély-Pecze, Juhász és Gyöngyösi, 2013) elnevezés Európában, amelyet "ernyőfogalomként" használunk (életút-támogató pálya-orientáció, lásd: Borbély-Pecze, 2010). Ebben a cikkben a LLG részterületeit, valamint a foga-lomhoz kapcsolódóan megjelenő további meghatározásokat tekintjük át. A célunk az, hogy a pedagógiai értékelést, fejlesztést és ennek részeként a pályaedukációt, pályapedagógiát (Barkó, 2006), valamint a vállalati humánerőforrás-gazdálkodás fogalmait elhelyezzük az életút-támo-gató pályaorientáció rendszerén belül és ahhoz kívülről kapcsolódóan is. Mindezt azért tartjuk szükségesnek, mert bár a pályakonstruálás (a fogalmat ebben a cikkben a klasszikus pályaválasztás helyett használjuk) és a pályaalkalmasság kérdései a neveléstudomány, a pszichológia és az emberierőforrás-gazdálkodás területein magától értetődően két különböző tevékenységrendszert írnak le, a gyakorlatban ezen két fogalom értelmezési tartományainak folyamatos keveredését tapasztalhatjuk. A középfokú szakképzést választó 14-15 éves gyerekeken a szakmai elköteleződést, az alapszakos gólyákon a tudományterületi elköteleződést kérik számon, a vállalatok pedig a "kész" pályakezdő munkavállaló felvételének igényével állnak elő. Miközben tudományos nézőpontból tudjuk, hogy ezek az elvárások irreálisak, s a gyakorlatban is sokszor találkozhatunk jó megközelítéssel, a korai pályaválasztási döntéshozatalra és az érdeklődés korai zárására irányuló, funkció-és szerepzavarokhoz vezető igények is erőteljesen jelen vannak. Álta-lános az a vélekedés, hogy létezik optimális pálya-és szakmaválasztás, amikor a továbbtanulási döntéshez rendelkezésre állnak a kellő információk, amit az érintettek figyelembe is vesznek. A közvélemény ezt tekinti az iskolarendszerhez és a munkapiachoz való "jó állampolgári" viszonyulásnak, miközben ilyen korai zárással nem lehet modern életpályákat megvalósítani. 2020 őszén például ez a szemlélet jelent meg az országos pályaválasztási mérés kapcsán, amely, bár természetét tekintve önértékelő kérdőív volt, mégis sokan, helytelenül, pályaválasztási pedagógiai tesztként beszéltek róla.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tibor Bors Borbely-Pecze and +1Suhajda Csilla Judit•  2  Human Resource Management, Career Guidance And CounselingLesson Plan: STEM CareerSubjects: Career education, homeroom, citizenship, health, science, computer science Grade level: Middle school, high school, college, career. This is a student-centered activity that will work with all four levels. Distance learning:... moreSubjects: Career education, homeroom, citizenship, health, science, computer scienceGrade level: Middle school, high school, college, career. This is a student-centered activity that will work with all four levels.Distance learning: Yes, this activity can be adapted to use in an electronic classroom.Time for this lesson: 50 minutesContent goals:    • Students will be aware of STEM and STEAM and what they stand for.    • Students will be aware of how varied the paths to a profession are in real life.Skills taught:    • Quick reading for interest.    • Identifying unknown vocabulary in readings.    • Creative writing.    • Public reading.    • Critical thinking during group discussion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel S Helman•  19  Computer Science, Science Education, Career Guidance Counseling, AstrobiologyA systematic scoping review of the research on counselling in higher education and further education.A reference work for specialists in student counselling and for those who employ counsellors in mental health services. It provides an analysis of research in this area and provides useful information on the extent and severity of student... moreA reference work for specialists in student counselling and for those who employ counsellors in mental health services. It provides an analysis of research in this area and provides useful information on the extent and severity of student mental health problems and the effectiveness of counselling and psychotherapy across the student population. This is the first publication to systematically identify, assess and review research in this area.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anna Madill•  93  Management, Social Work, Domestic Violence, CreativityPengembangan Buku Kerja Eksplorasi KarirThis study aimed to: (1) produce a career exploration workbook for the junior high school students, (2) find out the effectiveness of the career exploration-workbook for junior high school. This study is a research and development.... moreThis study aimed to: (1) produce a career exploration workbook for the junior high school students, (2) find out the effectiveness of the career exploration-workbook for junior high school. This study is a research and development. Development procedure of this research refers to Borg and Gall model. The Trials of research subject is amount of 19 students, and the effectiveness test of research subject is amount of 43 students. Data collection instruments are used questionnaire for media experts; matter experts, teachers and students response scale; and the scale of career exploration. The analysis technique is used a quantitative descriptive analysis technique using categorization. The results of this study are (1) an appropriate career exploration workbook. The proof of the feasibility of the workbook is based on the test results of matter experts that obtains a score of 97 (very high category), the media expert test obtains a score of 101 (very high category), the response of the teacher obtains a score of 69 (medium category), and the response of the students obtains a score 74 (high category). (2) the workbook developed is effective to explore interests, the value of a work, the potential, and to recognize some types of job. The proof of the effectiveness of the workbook is based on the students career exploration results before using the workbook obtains a score of 169.4 (Medium Category) and after using the workbook becomes 198.8 (high category).Save to LibraryDownloadby Edi Purwanta and +1Moh. Khoerul Anwar•  10  Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance, Career Guidance And Counseling, School Guidance and CounselingEFFECTS OF CAREER GUIDANCE AND CAREER COUNSELLING TECHNIQUES ON STUDENTS VOCATIONAL MATURITYThis study investigated the effects of career guidance method and career counselling method on student’s vocational maturity. The main purpose of the study is to find out which of the two purposed techni1ques will best facilitate the... moreThis study investigated the effects of career guidance method and career counselling method on student’s vocational maturity. The main purpose of the study is to find out which of the two purposed techni1ques will best facilitate the development of vocational maturity among secondary school adolescents in Ekiti State, Nigeria. Two research questions were raised to guide the study and one hypothesis was formulated. The study was a quasi-experimental design of pre-test and post-test two experimental groups. The instrument used was an adopted inventory used by Kuti in 1979. The inventory was named Career Development Inventory (CDI). The validation of the instrument was re-established with reliability co-efficient of 74, 76 and 80 respectively in the sub-scale A, B, C. Treatments were done in two different schools. Career Guidance Technique (CGT) was used in school A, while, Career Counselling Technique (CCT) was used in school B, Career Development Inventory (CDI) was used as measure of vocational maturity at pre-test and post-test. Based on data collected and analysed, the results revealed general improvement in the students’ vocational maturity after treatment. The study also revealed that Career Counselling Technique (CCT) improve vocational maturity better than Career Guidance Technique (CGT). But both (CCT) and (CGT) help in the improvement of vocational maturity of students. Vocational or career guidance and counselling programme should be made compulsory in all secondary schools in Ekiti State.Save to LibraryDownloadby Open Access Publishing  Group•  33  Teaching and Learning, Education, Career Guidance Counseling, Educational ResearchECR and MCR WebsitesA collection of useful websites for Early Career Researchers (first five years after PhD conferral date) and Mid Career Researchers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alex Burns•  8  Higher Education, Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance, Career Guidance And CounselingThe Value of ExperienceThis autoethnographic essay discusses my own experiences and understanding of internships within the Creative Industries. I find myself in the fortunate position to not be seeking an internship, but instead to be offering one, through my... moreThis autoethnographic essay discusses my own experiences and understanding of internships within the Creative Industries. I find myself in the fortunate position to not be seeking an internship, but instead to be offering one, through my own Creative Industries endeavour, a short story literary journal.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ross Turner•  20  Humanities, Autoethnography, Creative Industries, Internships (Active Learning)ASSIGNMENTS 103 Career InformationAs part of DCGC Program I am happy to submit this assignment which covers the 2 topics - 1. SHORT TERM COURSES AFTER 10 TH STD 2. HANDLING A PARENT WITH STUDENT WHO COMES FOR CAREER GUIDANCE. As aspiring career guide and counselor it... moreAs part of DCGC Program I am happy to submit this assignment which covers the 2 topics -1.SHORT TERM COURSES AFTER 10 TH STD 2.HANDLING A PARENT WITH STUDENT WHO COMES FOR CAREER GUIDANCE. As aspiring career guide and counselor it gave me good insight on various theories which I referred and use for this work which in turn enhanced my knowledge. In first topic of short term courses though there are hundreds of courses available in ITI itself I have furnished a few popular in technical and non-technical area.The second topic I narrated through 4 steps of career guidance studied from the book 1 - basic of career guidance and counselling and applying portion of career concept applicable to the given parent and student .This assignment is a sincere approach to gauge my ability in understanding and transcend the knowledge acquired from theories and former experience as CIGI resource person, Hope this could be used in real life scenario as career counselor.Save to LibraryDownloadby Faizal Arikkoth•Career Guidance And CounselingSocial Capital and College-Going Culture in High Schools: the Effects of College Expectations and College Talk on Students' Postsecondary AttendanceUsing the Education Longitudinal Study of 2002, we examined the probability of students attending college by taking into account their 10th- and 12th-grade exposure to college expectations from and college-related interactions with school... moreUsing the Education Longitudinal Study of 2002, we examined the probability of students attending college by taking into account their 10th- and 12th-grade exposure to college expectations from and college-related interactions with school staff. Our results suggest that college expectations and college-related interactions with their school counselors, teachers, and coaches had a modest impact on students’ odds of enrolling in college, considering the large impact of taking advanced courses and completing college admissions tests.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julia A Bryan•  31  Counseling Psychology, Higher Education, Career Guidance Counseling, Psychotherapy and CounselingDevelopment of the system of lifelong guidance in Hungary, Phase I 2008-2011Hungary is actually ahead of most EU Member States as far as the venture to deploy a branch- and sector-neutral national guidance systems based on a standardised national methodology and database is concerned. Since the second half of the... moreHungary is actually ahead of most EU Member States as far as the venture to deploy a branch- and sector-neutral national guidance systems based on a standardised national methodology and database is concerned. Since the secondhalf of the 1990s, the international policy community has been urging with growing emphasis for a universal revision of the narrow interpretation of the career orientation function to adjust it to the new social and labour market needs and the,parallel, changed role of “schools”. In the industrial societies, career guidance has been the privilege of a few. It was readily applied in two cases: for talented children and, the opposite, for pupils in need of catching up. Contemporary career guidancemeant (based mainly on its roots in French and German work and school psychology) skills and personality analysis, and it was often forgotten that an assessment drawn up without the involvement of the client, the user – however correct – has little chance to materialise in the absence of the individual’s identification with it.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tibor Bors Borbely-Pecze•  4  Career Guidance And Counseling, Public Policy Analysis, Career Development, Employment PolicyHow to achieve your goals and aspirationsWhat is really needed to aspire ? How do you get those fundamentals right to achieve ? What do you need to look for in a career choice ?Save to LibraryDownloadby Sanskriti Bacchu•  7  Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance And Counseling, Career Development, CareersBK KARIR - TEORI GINZBERGSave to LibraryDownloadby Sheidati Zakiah Silalahi•  11  Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance, Career Guidance And Counseling, School Guidance and CounselingLesson Plan: STEM CareerSave to LibraryDownloadby Daniel S Helman•  18  Computer Science, Science Education, Career Guidance Counseling, AstrobiologyDecision Making in Voluntary Career Change: An Other-Than-Rational PerspectiveThe authors present a qualitative study of voluntary career change, which highlighted the importance of positive emotions, unplanned action, and building certainty and perceiving continuity in the realization of change. Interpretative... moreThe authors present a qualitative study of voluntary career change, which highlighted the importance of positive emotions, unplanned action, and building certainty and perceiving continuity in the realization of change. Interpretative phenomenological analysis was used to broaden theoretical understanding of real-life career decision making. The accounts of 8 women who had changed careers were explored, and the analysis supported other-than-rational perspectives of career decision making. An action-affect-cognition framework of decision making is proposed. The framework adds the role of emotion and the importance of self-regulation to existing theory of career decision making. Implications for career counseling are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Evanthia Lyons•  17  Sociology, Psychology, Decision Making, Career ManagementSanta Sophia and Blue Mosque Divinty Under the DomesA visit to the St. Sophia of Istanbul is like a visit to the nearly 2000 year old history of the city itself. The church is one the finest & most famous examples of Byzantine architecture in the world. It is located in the heart of old... moreA visit to the St. Sophia of Istanbul is like a visit to the nearly 2000 year old history of the city itself. The church is one the finest & most famous examples of Byzantine architecture in the world. It is located in the heart of old Istanbul, next to the also famous Blue Mosque, in the Sultan Ahmet Square of Istanbul. The above photograph above shows the actual view of the Hagia Sophia Church Museum (Aya Sofya Muzesi) as it appears in Istanbul today. Four minarets have been added to Hagia Sophia, after the Ottomans captured Constantinople at 1453 and converted the building from a church into the mosque. Today, Saint Sophia is neither a Church nor a Mosque, but a museum that is open to the public. The Hagia Sophia was built as a Constantinian Church by the emperor Justinian I, between A.D. 532 and 537 and at the time, it was estimated to be the largest covered space in the world. Its architects were Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles. It was built in only five years. On May 558, the dome of the church collapsed due to a December 557 earthquake, and though a new dome was quickly rebuilt afterwards.Hagia Sophia is a Greek phrase that means 'Holy Wisdom'. This ancient basilica was also called Saint Sophia. The Turks call it 'Aya Sofya Muzesi' (Hagia Sophia Museum) or in short, Ayasofya. After its construction ended, Hagia Sophia served as a Church for the following nine centuries, until  Constantinople was invaded and taken over by the Ottomans on the 29th of May, 1453. After this date, the Hagia Sophia was converted into a mosque.Then in 1935, during the first years of the Republic of Turkey, the Mosque was secularized and made into a museum under the direction of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Turkish Republic.    It became a national museum, as it remains today.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  270  History, Cultural History, Historical Anthropology, Teaching and LearningMBTI® Test and Careers- Personality Strengths and Career ObstaclesWith any career search or career change there are complexities and each of the 16 different MBTI Personality Types are confronted with different obstacles. At the same time, every person has their strengths they rely on during a career... moreWith any career search or career change there are complexities and each of the 16 different MBTI Personality Types are confronted with different obstacles. At the same time, every person has their strengths they rely on during a career search.  Allen H. Hammer explains in the text entitled Introduction to Type and Careers potential obstacles, and potential strengths for each of the 16 personality types.  For example purposes, we will review two opposite types, first The INFP Personality Type (Introverted-Intuitive-Feeling-Perceiving) and secondly The ESTJ Personality Type (Extraverted-Sensing-Thinking-Judging).Save to LibraryDownloadby Jonathan Bollag•  12  Personality Psychology, Career Guidance Counseling, MBTI, Personality AssessmentCAREER STATUS OF SAN BEDA COLLEGE CAS GRADUATES: AN ONLINE TRACER STUDYThe study examined the current career status of graduates from the SBCA CAS from SY 1999-2010. The study explored the employment status, relevance of jobs with completed course and the impact of SBCA programs on their current career... moreThe study examined the current career status of graduates from the SBCA CAS from SY 1999-2010. The study explored the employment status, relevance of jobs with completed course and the impact of SBCA programs on their current career competencies. The study utilized an online survey that was electronically mailed to a purposively sampled 100 CAS graduates. A total of (N=78) responded to the survey. Findings show that (59) 80% of the respondents are employed and majority (82%) gained employment in six months or less from their graduation in San Beda. Only 79% of the alumni respondents are in jobs related to their college course.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paulito V Hilario•Career Guidance And CounselingDETERMINANTS OF EFFECTIVE GUIDANCE AND  COUNSELLING PROGRAMMES IN PUBLIC SECONDARY SCHOOLS IN KERICHO SUB-COUNTY, KENYAThe Kenyan government recognizes guidance and counselling as an essential service that should be given to every student. To demonstrate its seriousness, the government, through the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has officially... moreThe Kenyan government recognizes guidance and counselling as an essential service that should be given to every student. To demonstrate its seriousness, the government, through the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has officially appointed heads of departments of guidance and counselling in secondary schools to oversee the implementation and proper running of this programme. Effectiveness of this programme has however not been felt as evidenced by common unrest in many schools. Limited research has been done to examine determinants of effective provision of guidance and counselling programmes in public secondary schools in Kenya. The purpose of this study was to investigate the determinants of effective guidance and counselling programmes in public secondary schools in Kericho Sub-County, Kericho County. The objectives of the study were; to investigate the qualifications of teacher counsellors providing guidance and counselling services; establish if materials for guidance and counselling are available in Kericho Sub-County. The study was based on Carl Rogers client centered therapy. The study adopted a descriptive survey research design. The study was conducted in Kericho Sub-county in Kericho County, since various schools here experienced problems such as school dropouts, strikes, poor relationships among students despite the provision of guidance and counselling services in their schools. The target population was 2000 students of form three and 60 guidance and counselling teachers. A sample of 200 students and 18 guidance and counseling teachers were selected using stratified and simple random sampling techniques. These figures served as a true representation of the whole population of form three students. The instruments for data collection were questionnaires, interviews, observation checklists and document analysis. Frequency counts and percentages were used to analyse the data. The study concluded that most teacher counsellors lack professional training on guidance and counselling and out of those who are not trained in guidance and counselling, only a few attend refresher courses every term, this hinders effective counselling in public secondary schools in Kericho County. The study also concluded that secondary schools do not have enough facilities for guidance and counselling and the rooms for counselling are not in a strategic place, which is conducive for counselling. Based on the findings, it was recommended that Teachers Service Commission should ensure guidance and counseling departments are headed by trained and qualified counselors for effectiveness and that the County government and the Ministry of Education should enhance quality assessment of G&C in all secondary schools. The findings of this study may be beneficial to policy makers in the Ministry of Education to see the need for employment of professional counsellors.Save to Libraryby Open Access Publishing  Group•  35  Teaching and Learning, Education, Career Guidance Counseling, DidacticsOkul Yöneticileri ve Öğretmenlerin Empati Eğitimiyle Üst-biliş ve Farkındalıklarının DeğişimiBu araştırma, sürdürebilir okul kültürü ve ekosistemi için, okul yöneticilerinin ve öğretmenlerinin farkındalık ve üst bilişlerini artırmak üzere yapılmış Empati Projesi ile ilgili görüşleri almak için gerçekleştirilmiştir. Araştırma 2015... moreBu araştırma, sürdürebilir okul kültürü ve ekosistemi için, okul yöneticilerinin ve öğretmenlerinin farkındalık ve üst bilişlerini artırmak üzere yapılmış Empati Projesi ile ilgili görüşleri almak için gerçekleştirilmiştir. Araştırma 2015 yılında İstanbul’da yer alan üç lisenin 6 yöneticisi ve 38 öğretmeninin gönüllü katılımı ile gerçekleştirilmiştir. Katılımcılar üç hafta boyunca 24 saatlik farkındalık ve üst biliş odaklı empati eğitimi aldıktan sonra Empati Projesinin kendilerine fayda sağlaması amacıyla 5 soruya cevap vermişlerdir. Nitel araştırma prensipleri çerçevesinde katılımcılardan veriler, açık uçlu anketler toplanmıştır. Daha sonra veriler NVivo kullanılarak ayrıştırılmış ve en fazla kullanılan temalar ve ikincil alt temalar çıkartılmıştır. Araştırmaya katılan okul yöneticileri ve öğretmenlerin görüşlerine göre  farkındalık ve üst biliş odaklı empati eğitiminin verimli ve etkili olabilmesi için öğrenci ve öğretmen işbirliğinin artırılmasının önemi ortaya konmuştur. Bu paralelde bu konu ile ilgili uygulamaların artırılmasının sağlanmasıdır. Farkındalık arttıkça okul içinde yer alan kişilerin olumlu anlamda değiştiğini göstermektedir. Kazanımlar ile ilgili olarak katılımcıların kişisel gelişimleri, deneyim ve beceri edinme imkanlarının arttığı tespit edilmiştir. Ayrıca yaşamlarının tamamını kapsayacak şekilde çatışma çözme becerileri, problem çözme becerileri, iletişim ve en önemlisi de farkındalık ve üst biliş odaklı empati becerilerini geliştirmeleridir. Asıl önemli olan bir diğer konu ise önyargılarla baş etme becerilerini artırırlarken yaratıcı düşünme becerilerini de geliştirmeleridir. Bu sayede  başarı ve mutluluk getiren  alışkanlıklar sağlamaktadır. Bu tür bir durumda sürdürebilir gelişim gösteren bir okul kültürü ve ekosisteminin oluşturulabileceğini mümkün kılmaktadır.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  266  Creative Writing, Management, Marketing, PsychologyProfessional consulting assistance to youth based on employment services (in Russian) / Профконсультационная помощь молодежи на базе служб занятости населенияThe article discusses the possibilities of the employment service in the field of career guidance and vocation counseling with young people. The authors identify several problems that make it difficult to employ young professionals,... moreThe article discusses the possibilities of the employment service in the field of career guidance and vocation counseling with young people. The authors identify several problems that make it difficult to employ young professionals, consider the Russian and foreign experience of career guidance organized by the employment service, and identifies a system of measures that promote professional self-determination of young people.В статье рассматриваются возможности службы занятости населения в сфере профориентационной и профконсультационной работы с молодежью. Авторы выделяют ряд проблем, обусловливающих сложности трудоустройства молодых специалистов, рассматривают российский и зарубежный опыт профориентационной работы, организуемой службой занятости, выделяют систему мер, способствующих профессиональному самоопределению молодежи.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergei Kremen and +1Faina Kremen•  13  Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance, Unemployment, Career Guidance And CounselingFAITH IN THE TIMES OF COVID-19: INTEGRATING RELIGION IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19 IN TANZANIAWhen and where a crisis such as a pandemic arises, people turn to religion in pursuit/search of comfort, justifications, and explanations. This article describes the role of religion in Tanzania in the times of COVID-19. The data... moreWhen and where a crisis such as a pandemic arises, people turn toreligion in pursuit/search of comfort, justifications, and explanations. This article describes the role of religion in Tanzania in the times of COVID-19. The data collected through a questionnaire from 258 participants asserts that COVID-19 increased the intensity level of religiosity in Tanzania. This was seen in peoples’ participation in religious activities, i.e., religious gatherings, frequent prayers,and other religious practices. This article has established that the process of de-secularization was strong, and religion became a provider of hope, unity, solace, and socialization. Moreover, COVID-19 has also facilitated the convergence of different religions and thus ecumenism and pluralism of faiths have been strengthened in the country.Save to LibraryDownloadby jonas kinanda•  7  Social Psychology, Mental Health, Career Guidance And Counseling, Quality of Life and Elderly PeopleThe Efficacy of Blended Learning in Courses on Intellectual Property Rights  and PatentsThe study reported in this paper compared the effects of two approaches of blended learning on students’ learning outcomes in courses on intellectual property rights and patents. One group of students followed three weeks of online... moreThe study reported in this paper compared the effects of two approaches of blended learning on students’ learning outcomes in courses on intellectual property rights and patents. One group of students followed three weeks of online graduate courses and underwent peer assessment. In a second group of students, the online work and peer assessment were combined with active face-to-face experience-based learning. Pre and post-tests were used to measure the students’ knowledge about intellectual property rights and patents. In addition, a questionnaire was used to gather data on the students’ opinions regarding course arrangement and implementation, digital learning, the learning environment, and their knowledge, understanding, and implementation of intellectual property rights and patents. The data were quantitatively analyzed to determine whether the two blended learning approaches differed in terms of the effects measured. The findings show that the students approved of the online courses and also the face-to-face learning. These findings may reflect approval of the decrease in costs and time. The implication is that active face-to-face experience-based learning should supplement online courses with peer assessment, as this combination led to more successful learning outcomes among students taking courses on intellectual property rights and patents.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  263  Creative Writing, Entrepreneurship, Management, MarketingThe Impacts of Strategic Talent Management Assessments on Improving Innovation-Oriented Career DecisionsAccording to the objectives of the paper, the evaluation was checked together with the participants in semi-structured interviews. Two assessments were given to the students: the strategic talent management and the innovation potential... moreAccording to the objectives of the paper, the evaluation was checked together with the participants in semi-structured interviews. Two assessments were given to the students: the strategic talent management and the innovation potential assessment. A control group was used, wherein the students received an innovation potential assessment but not the strategic talent management assessment. There was a vital difference between students who took the strategic talent management assessment and those who did not in assessing their innovation potential. A difference was also seen in the area of flexibility, self-confidence and achievement drive. The research exhibited that the assessment had helped the majority of the participants to get more involved in the needs of the market to make a greater impact in on today’s society since they became more aware of their own skills, talents,capabilities, and goals.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  255  Creative Writing, Critical Theory, Entrepreneurship, Psychological AssessmentFeatures of career self-determination of regional university applicants in the context of the COVID-19 pandemicThe impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the career plans of high school graduates in 2020 is examined in article. At the stage of graduating from high school and admission to university, career self-determination is considered in the... moreThe impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the career plans of high school graduates in 2020 is examined in article. At the stage of graduating from high school and admission to university, career self-determination is considered in the context of professional self-determination, an indicator of the development of which is a conscious choice of a professional future. As a result of a survey and diagnostic of 127 first-year students of Smolensk State University, it was found that students who entered the university with formed professional plans have a higher level of development of personal competencies that are significant for career self-determination. Most of them implemented their university admission plans despite the limitations associated with the COVID-19 pandemics. At the same time, students who did not have formed career ideas at the time of admission experienced more difficulties in entering; their choice of the training program was due to external factors.Save to LibraryDownloadby Faina Kremen•  14  Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance, Career Guidance And Counseling, CareerOnlife Guidance. Metodi e strumenti per orientare nell'era digitaleI bisogni orientativi dei giovani adulti del XXI secolo, sfidano le università a ripensare e riprogettare strumenti e modelli di orientamento con l’obiettivo di capacitare l’individuo in direzione di un apprendimento life-long, life-wide... moreI bisogni orientativi dei giovani adulti del XXI secolo, sfidano le università a ripensare e riprogettare strumenti e modelli di orientamento con l’obiettivo di capacitare l’individuo in direzione di un apprendimento life-long, life-wide e life-deep. In questa direzione le ICT offrono un’interessante opportunità, che consiste nel potenziare i servizi di orientamento tradizionali utilizzando sistemi “web based”, aprendo al contempo nuove opportunità per migliorarne la qualità e la portata, nonché ampliarne i benefici. Il presente progetto di ricerca intende sviluppare e implementare una metodologia che consenta l’erogazione di percorsi di orientamento formativo mediante l’applicazione delle tecnologie digitali nel contesto universitario. L’obiettivo è progettare un’azione formativo/orientativa concretamente rivolta alla valorizzazione del patrimonio di risorse personali e al potenziamento della capacità progettuale, dell’occupabilità e delle prospettive di carriera dei partecipanti, attraverso lo sviluppo della digital career literacy degli studenti. Più nello specifico, si è scelto di elaborare un modello di bilancio di competenze, quale intervento di elezione nell’orientamento formativo, in modalità blended, alternando momenti onsite a momenti online. Destinatari del percorso sono gli studenti dei corsi di laurea di secondo livello dell’Università di Foggia. Questi giovani adulti, infatti, si trovano a dover affrontare un importante momento decisionale circa il loro futuro formativo professionale e un dispositivo come il bilancio di competenze appare particolarmente utile per aiutarli a costruire i propri criteri di orientamento, per selezionare e accedere alle opportunità lavorative e ai percorsi formativi che meglio rispondono alle proprie mutevoli caratteristiche personali e aspirazioni professionali, anche grazie al supporto delle nuove tecnologie. Abstarct Career counseling needs in young adults in the XXI century, have been challenging universities to reconsider and redesign counseling guidance tools and models with the purpose of leading the individual to a life-long, life-wide and life-deep learning direction. Through this direction, ICT provide an interesting opportunity which consists of developing the traditional career counseling guidance services using “web based” system, extending at the same time new opportunities to improve the quality and the range, besides enlarging benefits. The current research project means to develop and implement a methodology that permits the distribution of counseling career guidance paths through the technological and digital application in the university context. The aim is to design an educational/orientative action concretely addressed to the enhancement of the personal assets and to the building up of the project skills, the employability and the career perspectives of the participants, through the development of the students’ digital career literacy. Specifically, we have chosen to create a model of skill audit, as an intervention of election in the educational career counseling, in a blended method, interchanging onsite time to online time. Beneficiaries of this path are students from second level degree of the University of Foggia. These young adults, as a matter of facts, have to cope an important decision about their own educational-professional future and such a tool as the skill audit appears particularly useful to help them to build their own career counseling criteria, select and access to the job opportunities and to the educational paths which better respond to their changeable personal features and professional ambitions, even thanks to the new technologies support.Save to Libraryby Silvia Della Posta•  7  Lifelong Learning, Career Guidance, ICT in Education, ICT for DevelopmentNathania Vita Lianti KARIR MIND MAPPING BIMBINGAN KLASIKAL KELAS 7 SMP NEGERI 209 JAKARTASave to LibraryDownloadby Nathania Vita Lianti•  10  Psychology, Teacher Education, Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance And CounselingFeatures of career self-determination of regional university applicants in the context of the COVID-19 pandemicThe impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the career plans of high school graduates in 2020 is examined in article. At the stage of graduating from high school and admission to university, career selfdetermination is considered in the... moreThe impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the career plans of high school graduates in 2020 is examined in article. At the stage of graduating from high school and admission to university, career selfdetermination is considered in the context of professional selfdetermination, an indicator of the development of which is a conscious choice of a professional future. As a result of a survey and diagnostic of 127 first-year students of Smolensk State University, it was found that students who entered the university with formed professional plans have a higher level of development of personal competencies that are significant for career self-determination. Most of them implemented their university admission plans despite the limitations associated with the COVID-19 pandemics. At the same time, students who did not have formed career ideas at the time of admission experienced more difficulties in entering; their choice of the training program was due to external factors.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergei Kremen and +1Faina Kremen•  16  Career Guidance Counseling, Self-Determination Theory, Career Guidance, Career Guidance And CounselingCareer Guidance: A Way of LifeCareer guidance plays an important role in helping product markets work and education systems to meet their goals. Because the choice of a career is undeniably one of the most crucial decisions one makes in life. The irony is that such an... moreCareer guidance plays an important role in helping product markets work and education systems to meet their goals. Because the choice of a career is undeniably one of the most crucial decisions one makes in life. The irony is that such an important decision is often made quite early in the life of an individual and is sometimes made without giving much thought to it. A career should be chosen with utmost care, thought, and planning. Individual have different innate capacities and abilities and hence aptitudes for different kind of work. The purpose of Career Guidance is to match the individuals and the occupation optimally for mutual benefits. It also promotes equity. Recent evidence suggests that social mobility relies on wider acquisition not just of knowledge and skills, but also understanding how to use them. In this context, the mission of career guidance is very vast, to become part of lifelong learning. In this paper, we become to know about the needs and importance of Career Guidance and its proper implementation. And we know how to improve C.G for making children"s beautiful life as well as for all of us. But today in some places of our country this service is already started and adapted, departing from a traditional model of occupational interviewing students about to leave school.Save to LibraryDownloadby Partha Roy•Career Guidance And CounselingRoadmaps and crossroads of Life Transitions: Exploring Career Decision-Making of Filipino Gay High School StudentsThe unique situations faced by lesbians, gay, bisexuals and transgender (LGBT) youth serve as important considerations in preparing them for their future career encounters. This research aimed to explore inclinations, considerations, and... moreThe unique situations faced by lesbians, gay, bisexuals and transgender (LGBT) youth serve as important considerations in preparing them for their future career encounters.  This research aimed to explore inclinations, considerations, and tribulations of Filipino gay high school students in choosing and deciding their future careers. Using a phenomenological inquiry design, the researchers conducted interviews with five selected gay high school students.  Six themes emerged from the analysis and were used to come up with the roadmap and crossroad model of career decision-making by gay high school students. Implications and recommendations for career counseling with gay youth are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marc Eric S . Reyes•  11  Career Guidance Counseling, LGBT Issues (Education), Career Guidance, LGBT IssuesLean Transcending RecyclingIn the first instance, prior to getting deep into the most significant points of discussion with regard to environmental recycling; would be better to know what recycling is; subsequent to knowing the real concept would be easy to get... moreIn the first instance, prior to getting deep into the most significant points of discussion with regard to environmental recycling; would be better to know what recycling is; subsequent to knowing the real concept would be easy to get onto the evocative arguments of discussion in order to come up with suggestive strategies and measures to put into action.Accordingly, starting from layman’s perception recycling is the process of making or manufacturing new products from the product that has originally served its purpose. If these used products are disposed of in an appropriate environmentally friendly way, the process of recycling has been set in motion. Items that are made from material such as aluminum, plastic water bottles and certain kinds of paper can be separated from regular trash and put in an appropriate recycling bin. In this regard all steps in order to save the environment would certainly become the part of environmental cycling.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  272  Management, Marketing, Management Information Systems, Teaching and LearningWhy there are so many unemployed graduates in India?In a study done by Institute of Human Development (IHD) in 2014, around 45 lakh graduates were jobless in the year 2012, and the number is only rising.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zubair Ahmed•  15  Education, Higher Education, Career Guidance And Counseling, Study AbroadThe Impacts of Career Centers of The Universities on The Skill Up Of The Next Generation: How To Make Ready For The Future Of WorkSave to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  7  Higher Education, Career Guidance And Counseling, Higher Education Management, Higher Education StudiesEffects of Two Selected Intelligent Tutors on Pre-Service Physics Teachers’ Academic Performance in Colleges of Education on Southwestern NigeriaThis study investigated the effects of the developed and adapted intelligent tutoring systems on academic performance of pre-service physics teachers in colleges of educations, southwestern Nigeria. It determines the effect of the... moreThis study investigated the effects of the developed and adapted intelligent tutoring systems on academic performance of pre-service physics teachers in colleges of educations, southwestern Nigeria. It determines the effect of the intelligent tutors on retention of Physics concepts at the colleges of education. This is with the ultimate goal of proffering solution to the challenges of achieving some of the objectives of Physics education in the nation. The study adopted non-equivalent pretest - posttest control group design. The population comprised Physics students in colleges of education in Southwestern Nigeria. Three colleges of education were purposively selected from three states in Southwestern Nigeria based on proximity, willingness to participate in the experiment, availability of ICT facilities and a favourable academic calendar. Three intact classes of 200 Level Physics students who were randomly assigned to the locally developed intelligent tutoring systems labelled (ITP...Save to LibraryDownloadby TEMITOPE OTEYOLA•  20  Education, Career Guidance Counseling, Didactics, Educational ResearchBarriers and Enablers for Career Development Among Marginalized South African YouthA South African case study is presented to provide insight into the career barriers and enablers of marginalized youth as well as recommendations for facilitating career decision-making processes. The systems theory framework of career... moreA South African case study is presented to provide insight into the career barriers and enablers of marginalized youth as well as recommendations for facilitating career decision-making processes. The systems theory framework of career development (STF) developed by Patton and McMahon was used as a conceptual guide to explore the influences affecting the career development of Grade 12 high school students at the Kayamandi township in South Africa. An in-depth qualitative analysis of participants’ perceptions was undertaken using the My System of Career Influences (MSCI) qualitative assessment measure developed by McMahon, Patton, and Watson. This instrument allows career influences to be explored at the individual, social, and environmental-societal levels. As part of the STF, a narrative approach was utilized to identify career enablers and barriers inherent in these adolescents’ career stories. This study provides a critical glimpse into the complexity of how the multitude of infl...Save to LibraryDownloadby Anouk J Albien•  3  Systems Theory, Career Guidance And Counseling, AdolescentesDecision Making in Voluntary Career Change: An Other-Than-Rational PerspectiveThe authors present a qualitative study of voluntary career change, which highlighted the importance of positive emotions, unplanned action, and building certainty and perceiving continuity in the realization of change. Interpretative... moreThe authors present a qualitative study of voluntary career change, which highlighted the importance of positive emotions, unplanned action, and building certainty and perceiving continuity in the realization of change. Interpretative phenomenological analysis was used to broaden theoretical understanding of real-life career decision making. The accounts of 8 women who had changed careers were explored, and the analysis supported other-than-rational perspectives of career decision making. An action-affect-cognition framework of decision making is proposed. The framework adds the role of emotion and the importance of self-regulation to existing theory of career decision making. Implications for career counseling are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paulo Victor Lopes•  17  Sociology, Psychology, Decision Making, Career ManagementDeveloping Your Research ProgramResearch development presentation for Professor Ranjeny Thomas's Immunology Lab at the Diamantina Institute, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland on 19th May 2017.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alex Burns•  9  Career Guidance, Career Guidance And Counseling, Grant Writing, Career CounsellingThe Comparative Study of Commercialization of the Higher Education InstitutionsProblem Statement: The increasing need of the funding and financing has changed the universities mission universities in terms of their commercial activities,particularly those in the best ranking lists of the universities. Research... moreProblem Statement: The increasing need of the funding and financing has changed the universities mission universities in terms of their commercial activities,particularly those in the best ranking lists of the universities.Research Questions: What kind of commercial activities is more important in increasing revenues is questioned taking into account the comparative study in the US,UK,and Turkey since they are critically in transition.Purpose of the Study: This paper focuses carefully on the university commercialization in three different countries(the US,the UK,and Turkey) in which the main activities,which create effective and efficient in increasing funding and financing,are analyzed because right decisions would be taken into account for short and long-term sustainable success of the universities.Research Methods: By using a phenomenological analysis, the data were collected through 57 semi-structured interviews with technology transfer officers (67) at 6 different universities (2 in the US, 1 in the UK, and 3 in Turkey) in three different countries. As taking into consideration the observations of the researchers,the collected data of were systematically examined in NVivo 10, data analysis software-program.Findings: The study shows critically that the heterogeneous commercial activities were seen in three different countries. The findings clarified that the university leadership was critical in funding and financing the universities. The American and English universities were really very successful in developing university-industry partnership comparing to Turkey. Their licensing revenues of the university patents were much higher than Turkish universities.Conclusions: The Technology Transfer Offices(TTOs) played important roles in developing university-industry partnership,particularly in the US and UK:however,in Turkey,the TTOs were so new in developing strong relationship with the industry. Additionally, the revenue through licensing activities was still limited.While the American and English universities were commercialized and funded by means of the industry,the Turkish universities were funded by the government.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gamze Sart•  264  Psychology, Applied Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Psychological AssessmentNextLast »Related TopicsDigital Signal processing (Engineering) (Engineering) (Engineering)FollowFollowingFPGA-based systems designFollowFollowingTelemedicine Applications and e-Health SystemsFollowFollowingProject Based Learning (PBL)FollowFollowingCareer CounselingFollowFollowingCareer CounsellingFollowFollowingCareer guidance researchFollowFollowingDisability LawFollowFollowingGlobalisation of disabilityFollowFollowingCareer Guidance CounselingFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023