Wikidata:ᱢᱩᱬᱩᱛ ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟ - Wikidata
Wikidata:ᱢᱩᱬᱩᱛ ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟ
Wikidata ᱠᱷᱚᱱ
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
ᱣᱤᱠᱤ ᱰᱟᱴᱟ ᱨᱮ ᱥᱟ.ᱜᱩᱱ ᱫᱟᱨᱟᱢ
the free knowledge base with 106,531,134 data items that anyone can edit.
Introduction • Project Chat • Community Portal • Help
Want to help translate? Translate the missing messages.
ᱥᱟᱹᱜᱩᱱ ᱫᱟᱨᱟᱢ!
Wikidata is a free and open knowledge base that can be read and edited by both humans and machines. 
Wikidata acts as central storage for the structured data of its Wikimedia sister projects including Wikipedia, Wikivoyage, Wiktionary, Wikisource, and others. 
Wikidata also provides support to many other sites and services beyond just Wikimedia projects! The content of Wikidata is available under a free license, exported using standard formats, and can be interlinked to other open data sets on the linked data web.
Get involved
For a complete starters’ guide, visit the community portal.
Learn about Wikidata
What is Wikidata? Read the Wikidata introduction.
Explore Wikidata by looking at a featured showcase item for author Douglas Adams (Q42).
Get started with Wikidata's SPARQL query service.
Contribute to Wikidata
Learn to edit Wikidata: follow the tutorials.
Work with other volunteers on a subject that interests you: join a WikiProject.
Individuals and organizations can also donate data.
Meet the Wikidata community
Visit the community portal or attend a Wikidata event.
Create a user account.
Talk and ask questions on the Project chat, Telegram groups, or the live IRC chatconnect.
Use data from Wikidata
Learn how you can retrieve and use data from Wikidata.
More...
ᱵᱮᱣᱨᱟ
2023-07-21: Entity schema E400, about an archival resource in the Yale University Art Gallery, is created.
2023-06-29: The Wikidata development team talk about what they've been working on in the office hours at 17:00 UTC on Telegram.
2023-06-27: The one hundred and twenty millionth item, about a Turkish female given name Nazmiye, is created.
2023-05-13: Wikidata tool QuickStatements (Q20084080) ran its batch 200000.
More news... (edit [in English])  News displayed in English? Translate it!
Learn about data
New to the wonderful world of data? Develop and improve your data literacy through content designed to get you up to speed and feeling comfortable with the fundamentals in no time.
Item: ᱫᱷᱟ.ᱨᱛᱤ (Q2)
Property: highest point (P610)
custom value: ᱢᱟᱶᱴ ᱮᱵᱷᱚᱨᱮᱥᱴ (Q513)
Current highlights
Bernhard Plesansky (Q24285937)
Michael Anthony Perez (Q121891331)
Tropical Storm Kirogi (Q122132991)
Estonia in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest (Q121995504)
Ali Boushaki (Q28936494) (pictured)
Pax Ahimsa Gethen (Q121763432)
2023 Johannesburg building fire (Q122146423)
Discover
Innovative applications and contributions from the Wikidata community
Featured WikiProject:
WikiProject Music
Wikiproject Music is home to editors that help add data about artists, music releases, tracks, awards, and performances! Additionally, importing from and linking Wikidata with the many music databases and streaming services is another focus of the project. Read about our data model on our project page and come chat with us on Telegram.
More:
Check out Wikidata:Tools for some of our best tools and gadgets for using and exploring Wikidata.
Know of an interesting project or research conducted using Wikidata? You can nominate content to be featured on the Main page here!
ᱥᱟᱹᱜᱟᱹᱭ
Wikidata mailing list
Wikidata technical mailing list
Discussion requests for specific topics
Facebook, Mastodon, Twitter
Leave a message at project chat
Chat on Telegram or on IRC
ᱥᱟ.ᱜᱟ.ᱭ
Report a technical problem
Keep up-to-date: Weekly summaries
Wikidata is part of the non-profit, multilingual, free-content Wikimedia family.
 Wikipedia – Encyclopedia   
 Wiktionary – Dictionary and thesaurus   
 Wikibooks – Textbooks, manuals, and cookbooks   
 Wikinews – News   
 Wikiquote – Collection of quotations   
 Wikisource – Library   
 Wikiversity – Learning resources   
 Wikivoyage – Travel guides   
 Wikispecies – Directory of species   
 Wikimedia Commons – Media repository   
 Incubator – New language versions   
 Meta-Wiki – Wikimedia project coordination   
 MediaWiki – Software documentation   
"https://www.wikidata.org/w/index.php?title=Wikidata:ᱢᱩᱬᱩᱛ_ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟ&oldid=1726698395" ᱠᱷᱚᱱ ᱧᱟᱢ ᱟᱹᱜᱩᱭ
ᱛᱷᱚᱠ: Wikidata
ᱟᱪᱩᱨᱵᱟᱲᱟ ᱢᱮᱱᱩ
ᱱᱤᱡᱮᱨᱟᱜ ᱦᱟᱹᱛᱭᱟᱹᱨᱠᱳ
ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤᱵᱟᱢ ᱵᱚᱞᱚ ᱟᱠᱟᱱᱟᱨᱚᱲᱮᱱᱮᱢᱠᱩᱮᱠᱟᱶᱩᱴ ᱛᱮᱭᱟᱨᱢᱮᱵᱚᱞᱚᱱ ᱫᱩᱣᱟᱹᱨ
ᱧᱤᱛᱩᱢ ᱡᱟᱜᱟ
ᱯᱨᱚᱡᱮᱠᱴ ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟᱜᱟᱞᱢᱟᱨᱟᱣ
English
ᱧᱮᱞᱚᱜᱚᱜ
ᱯᱟᱲᱦᱟᱣᱢᱮᱥᱟᱯᱲᱟᱣᱱᱟᱜᱟᱢ ᱧᱮᱞᱢᱮ
ᱟᱨᱦᱚᱸ
ᱥᱮᱸᱫᱽᱨᱟ
ᱟᱹᱪᱩᱨᱵᱟᱲᱟ
ᱢᱩᱬᱩᱛ ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟᱠᱚᱢᱩᱱᱤᱴᱤ ᱯᱚᱨᱴᱟᱞProject chatCreate a new Itemᱨᱚᱠᱟ ᱵᱚᱫᱚᱞᱠᱚᱡᱚᱲᱟᱣ ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟQuery ServiceNearbyᱜᱚᱸᱲᱚᱸᱜᱚᱸᱲᱚᱸ ᱮᱢᱯᱮ
Lexicographical data
Create a new Lexemeᱨᱚᱠᱟ ᱵᱚᱫᱚᱞᱠᱚRandom Lexeme
ᱦᱟᱹᱛᱭᱟᱹᱨ
ᱱᱚᱸᱰᱮ ᱫᱚ ᱪᱮᱫ ᱡᱚᱱᱚᱲ ᱠᱳᱥᱟᱹᱜᱟᱹᱭᱟᱱ ᱵᱚᱫᱚᱞᱠᱚᱵᱤᱥᱮᱥ ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟᱠᱚᱛᱤᱨᱮᱡᱩᱜᱮ ᱡᱚᱱᱚᱲᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟ ᱨᱮᱭᱟᱜ ᱠᱷᱚᱵᱚᱨ
ᱪᱷᱟᱯᱟ/ᱵᱷᱮᱡᱟ
ᱢᱤᱫᱴᱮᱱ ᱯᱚᱛᱚᱵ ᱛᱮᱭᱟᱨᱢᱮPDF ᱞᱮᱠᱷᱟ ᱟᱹᱛᱩᱨ ᱟᱬᱜᱚᱭᱢᱮᱪᱷᱟᱯᱟ ᱜᱟᱱᱚᱜ ᱚᱰᱚᱫ
ᱮᱴᱟᱜ ᱯᱟᱹᱨᱥᱤ ᱛᱮ
ᱡᱳᱱᱳᱲ ᱥᱮᱞᱮᱫ
 ᱱᱚᱶᱟ ᱥᱟᱦᱴᱟ ᱢᱩᱪᱟᱹᱫ ᱫᱷᱟᱣ ᱵᱚᱫᱚᱞ ᱟᱠᱟᱱᱟ  ᱑᱒ ᱥᱮᱯᱴᱮᱢᱵᱚᱨ ᱒᱐᱒᱒ ᱢᱟᱹᱦᱤᱛ,  ᱐᱕:᱔᱔ ᱚᱠᱛᱚᱨᱮ
All structured data from the main, Property, Lexeme, and EntitySchema namespaces is available under the Creative Commons CC0 License; text in the other namespaces is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
ᱩᱠᱩ ᱮᱠᱛᱤᱭᱟᱨ
Wikidata ᱵᱟᱵᱚᱛ
ᱫᱟᱹᱵᱤ ᱵᱟᱱᱩᱜᱠᱳ
Code of Conduct
ᱢᱚᱵᱟᱭᱮᱞᱛᱮ ᱧᱮᱞ
Data access
ᱞᱟᱦᱟᱱᱛᱤᱭᱤᱡ
ᱟᱝᱠᱲᱟ ᱠᱚ
ᱠᱩᱠᱤ ᱠᱟᱛᱷᱟ