Environment and climate change Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Environment and climate change1,545 FollowersRecent papers in Environment and climate changePapersPeopleAnalysis of Trend in Meteorological and Hydrological Time-series using Mann-Kendall and Sen’s Slope Estimator Statistical Test in Akwa Ibom State, NigeriaThe monthly, seasonal, annual, and decadal trends of seven hydro-meteorological variables were analysed for stations in Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria, controlled by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and the Cross River Basin... moreThe monthly, seasonal, annual, and decadal trends of seven hydro-meteorological variables were analysed for stations in Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria, controlled by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and the Cross River Basin Development Authority (CRBDA) from 1972 to 2021. At the 5% statistical significance level, the non-parametric Mann-Kendall and Sen&#39;s slope estimator techniques were used to detect if there was a positive or negative trend and the magnitude of the trend in hydro-meteorological data. In the present study, there was a significant statistically increasing (positive) trend in mean seasonal and annual rainfall, maximum temperature, minimum temperature, and runoff. However, there was a significant statistically decreasing (negative) trend in average annual relative humidity, solar radiation, and potential evapotranspiration. The magnitudes of the trends were 19.39mm/year, 0.0314oC/year, 0.013oC/year, -0.104%/year, -8.78MJ/m2/year, -1.440mm/year, and 0.028m3/s/y...Save to LibraryDownloadby Udeme udokpoh•Environment and climate changeNanomaterials and Diverse Agricultural Applications: A Comprehensive ReviewClimate change, the population explosion and the growing demand for good food and health require better, more reliable and more efficient. The different shape, size, composition and ability to interact with organic compounds make... moreClimate change, the population explosion and the growing demand for good food and health require better, more reliable and more efficient. The different shape, size, composition and ability to interact with organic compounds make nanomaterials and   technology widely used. Nano formulations and their applications in agriculture in the form of agrochemicals for crop protection, toxicity identification by nanobiosensors, genetic manipulation of plants treated by nanodevices, and rapid and efficient diseases of plants. The delivery of genetic material and proteins via nano-arrays has been proven in crop engineering, drug delivery and environmental monitoring. Nanotechnology also benefits the food industry by improving all stages of food production from food processing to  production, processing, packaging, safety, extending shelf life, testing for disease and creating smart foods. Therefore, technology can meet the needs of most consumers, including the improvement of food products and...Save to LibraryDownloadby charu rajpal•Environment and climate changeField Efficacy of Certain Insecticides against Fall Armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith) on Maize (Zea mays L.) under Prayagraj Region of IndiaA field experiment was conducted during rabi 2022 at Central Research Farm, SHUATS (Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences), Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh (India) using Randomized Block Design with eight treatments... moreA field experiment was conducted during rabi 2022 at Central Research Farm, SHUATS (Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences), Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh (India) using Randomized Block Design with eight treatments and replicated thrice. The Result showed that the effects of Insecticides against Spodoptera frugiperda, among the different treatments, Lowest larval population of maize fall army worm was recorded in Emamectin benzoate 5SG (1.178), Lambda cyhalothrin 5EC (1.311) is found to be the next best treatment following Spinosad 45SC (1.445) and Flubendiamide 49.35SC (1.567) is found to be the next effective treatment, Thiomethoxam 12.6 + Lambda cyhalothrin 9.5ZC (1.700) is found to be the next effective treatment followed by Chlorantraniliprole 18.5SC (1.833) , Beauveria bassiana 5% WP (2.134) is found to be least effective but comparatively superior over the control, The yields among the different treatments were significant. The highest yield was record...Save to LibraryDownloadby Chandan Kumar Panigrahi•Environment and climate changeDEM Computation of Flood Catchment Areas: Determining the Run-off and Maximum Discharge Time of Concentration in Uyo UrbanRainfall runoff modelling is a vital and an essential paradigm in flood risk management. This research sought to determine the runoff and maximum discharge time of concentration (TC) in Uyo Urban to help facilitate adequate and proper... moreRainfall runoff modelling is a vital and an essential paradigm in flood risk management. This research sought to determine the runoff and maximum discharge time of concentration (TC) in Uyo Urban to help facilitate adequate and proper flood risk and management plan in the area. The topographic map and 3D surface of the catchment area were generated and the rational method employed to determine the time of concentration of runoff as well as the maximum discharge while Hydrology extension in ArcGIS 10.3 was used to model the river basin from DEM and identify locations. Detailed analysis of 39 years (1977-2015) rainfall data was recorded to determine inter-annual variability, monthly distribution pattern, mean total annual rainfall, mean maximum daily rainfall and standardized anomaly index (SAI). The computed discharge was calculated. The results of the analyses indicate a total discharge of 1573.54m 3 /s and takes approximately 40 minutes of runoff time evident of prolonged rainstorms in areas like IBB Avenue as opposed to the short-lived rainfalls that causes flash floods in areas like Brook Street. This means that it takes a longer time of about 2 km to travel to the analysed site to cause flood. The study recommends the need for creation of more risk awareness and flood warning signs to further educate the people.Save to LibraryDownloadby nsisong ekong•  2  Environmental Management, Human and Physical GeographyRainfall Variability and Trend Analysis Over Nguru Yobe State, NigeriaAims: This study aimed to analyze rainfall variation in a semi-arid environment by examining the annual precipitation over Nguru in Yobe, Nigeria for a period of 31 years (1975-2005). Place and Duration of Study: The study was conducted... moreAims: This study aimed to analyze rainfall variation in a semi-arid environment by examining the annual precipitation over Nguru in Yobe, Nigeria for a period of 31 years (1975-2005). Place and Duration of Study: The study was conducted in Nguru town, an arid environment in Yobe State of Nigeria using rainfall data from Nguru meteorological station from 1975-2005. Methods: Coefficient of variability (CV) was used to evaluate rainfall variability over time in the area, and non-parametric Mann-Kendall and Sen’s slope estimator were used to determine rainfall trend and its magnitude in the study area. The investigation was based on data collected over a 31-year period at a single site. Results: The result indicates that the coefficient of variation CV for the annual rainfall in Nguru revealed a moderate inter annual variability (25%), whereas the CV for seasonal rainfall demonstrates that rainfall in the May June July monsoon period is highly variable between seasons (more than 40%). T...Save to LibraryDownloadby YUSUF SIDI•  7  Environmental Science, Climatology, Climate Change and the Built Environment, MonsoonScreening of Resistance Gene Analogue Marker(S) in Indian Bean [Lablab purpureus (L.) Sweet] against Yellow Mosaic DiseaseIn this study, 104 genotypes of Indian beans were evaluated against the yellow mosaic disease at  College Farm, N. M. College of Agriculture,  Navsari Agricultural University, Navsari  during Rabi 2021–2022 (South Gujarat Heavy Rainfall... moreIn this study, 104 genotypes of Indian beans were evaluated against the yellow mosaic disease at  College Farm, N. M. College of Agriculture,  Navsari Agricultural University, Navsari  during Rabi 2021–2022 (South Gujarat Heavy Rainfall Zone-II ), based on the disease rating scale (1–9). Out of the 104 genotypes of Indian beans, 33 genotypes showed resistance to the yellow mosaic disease, 14 genotypes showed moderate resistance, 17 genotypes showed moderate susceptibility, 29 genotypes showed susceptibility, and 11 genotypes showed highly susceptibility. The obtained sequence has a greatest identity of 95.05 percent with the full sequence of the dolichos yellow mosaic virus isolate AG segment DNA A with accession number MZ821026.1. As a result, the variant was given the accession number ON461886 and named dolichos yellow mosaic virus isolate NAU-RA coat protein gene segment DNA -A. In present investigation six resistant (P-19-169, V-19-15, V-19-35, GNIB-22, W-19-05, V-19-24) and six...Save to LibraryDownloadby Rishee Kalaria•Environment and climate changeStrategic Environmental Assessment: Current Status, Practices and Challenges in BangladeshStrategic environmental assessment (SEA) is an appraisal device of policies, plans, and programs and has evolved from an alternative of environmental impact assessment (EIA) to a potential environmental policy integration tool in national... moreStrategic environmental assessment (SEA) is an appraisal device of policies, plans, and programs and has evolved from an alternative of environmental impact assessment (EIA) to a potential environmental policy integration tool in national policy planning. Bangladesh has likewise rendered SEA in its environmental evaluation framework to consider environmental and social outcomes of policies, plans, and programs(PPPs), but the practice and current situation of SEA in Bangladesh is unknown to all. Considering this crisis the study was carried out to analyze the present status of SEA as well as to find out the constraints for successful SEA implementation in Bangladesh as an approach to integrate environmental considerations in the PPPs. The data were collected through multiple methodological techniques including document review as well as survey by standard questionnaire and key informant interviews (KIIs) with different stakeholders of the various backgrounds of Bangladesh related to ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sahadat Hossan•  6  Business, Philosophy of Agency, Strategic Environmental Assessment, Environmental PlanningA Compendium of Key Climate Smart Agriculture Practices in Intensive Cereal Based Systems of South AsiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Love Kumar Singh•  5  Climate Change, Agriculture, Food Security, Climate smart agricultureReducing Global Warming Potential through Sustainable Intensification of Basmati Rice-Wheat Systems in IndiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Love Kumar Singh•  14  Environmental Science, Economics, Agronomy, Climate ChangeTillage, residue and nitrogen management effects on methane and nitrous oxide emission from rice–wheat system of Indian Northwest Indo-Gangetic PlainsSave to LibraryDownloadby Love Kumar Singh•  16  Environmental Science, Agronomy, Climate Change, Food SecurityBridging the Digital Divide in Agriculture: An Investigation to ICT Adoption for Sustainable Farming Practices in Banaskantha District of Gujarat, IndiaThis article investigates the difficulties farmers encounter in adopting and utilising ICT technologies for sustainable agriculture, with a particular emphasis on bridging the digital divide. To assess the digital divide among farmers,... moreThis article investigates the difficulties farmers encounter in adopting and utilising ICT technologies for sustainable agriculture, with a particular emphasis on bridging the digital divide. To assess the digital divide among farmers, the study examines access to technology, digital literacy levels, and internet connectivity. Affordability, awareness, and complexity are highlighted and analysed as barriers to ICT adoption. To address these barriers, customised ICT solutions, including user-friendly tools, are being developed. The influence of these solutions on long-term farming practises were assessed. The interpretations emphasise solutions such as cost reduction, subsidisation, improved power supply, information delivery in local languages, the establishment of service centres, and the provision of training programmes. Implementing these solutions can help to bridge the digital divide, improve information access, and promote sustainable agriculture. This article examines the cha...Save to LibraryDownloadby Shruti Samadder•Environment and climate changeBiometric Assessment of Cyprinus carpio var. Communis from Anchar Lake of Kashmir ValleyMorphometric analysis have proven to be a useful tool for studying fish species, population and races. It is a basic fundamental tool for attaining information on development of organisms, systematics, growth, variation and morphology.... moreMorphometric analysis have proven to be a useful tool for studying fish species, population and races. It is a basic fundamental tool for attaining information on development of organisms, systematics, growth, variation and morphology. The present study was carried out in Anchar lake of Srinagar Kashmir to analyze morphometric measurements of Cyprinus carpio var. communis. About 120 specimens of Cyprinus carpio var. communis was collected randomly from different zones of the water body. The morphometric characters were classified into genetically controlled (narrow range), intermediate (moderate range) and environmentally (vast range) controlled characters. In percentage of total length out of fourteen 14 morphometric characters 5 were genetically controlled, 2 characters were intermediate and 7 characters were environmentally controlled. The relationship between the different morphometric characters was found to be linear with most of them being highly significant (p&lt;0.01). The ...Save to LibraryDownloadby shazia tariq•Environment and climate changeEffect of seed hardening and irrigation on economics of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivationSave to LibraryDownloadby punnam chhetri•  6  Mathematics, Agronomy, Irrigation, StrawNursery Raising of the Vegetables CropsPlants growing in nurseries can easily be protected from many harmful effects by following proper climatic conditions, protective structures, micro climatic conditions etc. Planting saplings on polybags helps it to gain access to all... morePlants growing in nurseries can easily be protected from many harmful effects by following proper climatic conditions, protective structures, micro climatic conditions etc. Planting saplings on polybags helps it to gain access to all artificial media, nutrients, growth regulators etc. Since vegetables are essential part of balanced diet it should be of good quality and disease free. This review aims to highlight the importance of growing vegetables on seedling trays, as it is low cost, good management and moreover it gives good productivity.Save to LibraryDownloadby LN Yadav•Spatial Vulnerability Assessment and Diurnal Climatology of Lightning Events in Tamil Nadu, IndiaThe research probes into the seven agro climatic zones in Tamil Nadu which are highly vulnerable to lightning strikes, as well as the human fatalities caused by Cloud to Ground lightning. The purpose of the study is to find out the... moreThe research probes into the seven agro climatic zones in Tamil Nadu which are highly vulnerable to lightning strikes, as well as the human fatalities caused by Cloud to Ground lightning. The purpose of the study is to find out the vulnerable hotspots and diurnal climatology of the Cloud to Ground lightning strikes during the northeast monsoon, southwest monsoon, and summer seasons. Heat maps are used for the lightning strikes using ArcGIS software and the diurnal climatology was performed by interpolating the data from the lightning location network into a 3-hour resolution. In vulnerability analysis, Northeastern zone is more prone to lightning during Southwest and Northeast Monsoon. On the other hand, High rainfall zone and Hilly zone are vulnerable to lightning in summer season. The Northeast monsoon has the highest lightning frequency ratio, followed by the summer. The maximum rate of strikes occurred between 10-15 hrs IST and showed a peak range between 10:00 to 12:00 hrs IST....Save to LibraryDownloadby Somnath Mahapatra•Environment and climate changeEffect of Vermicompost and Foliar Application of Zinc on Soil Properties and Nutrients Uptake by Groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L)A field experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of vermicompost and foliar application of zinc on soil properties and nutrients uptake by groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) during 2018-19 and 2019-20. The ten treatments in the... moreA field experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of vermicompost and foliar application of zinc on soil properties and nutrients uptake by groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) during 2018-19 and 2019-20. The ten treatments in the experiment viz., T1 (N:P:K, 15:60:30), T2 (N:P:K +Vermicompost), T3 (N:P:K +Vermicompost + Soil Zn 100%), T4 (N:P:K + Vermicompost + Soil Zn 75%), T5 (N:P:K + foliar application of 0.25% ZnSO4), T6 (N:P:K + foliar application of 0.50% ZnSO4), T7 (N:P:K + foliar application of 0.75% ZnSO4), T8 (N:P:K + Vermicompost + foliar application of 0.25% ZnSO4), T9 (N:P:K + Vermicompost + foliar application of 0.50% ZnSO4) and T10 (N:P:K + Vermicompost + foliar application of 0.75% ZnSO4) were replicated thrice under randomized block design (RBD). The results of the experiment revealed that the treatment receiving N:P:K (15:60:30) + Vermicompost (5 t ha-1) + Soil Zn 100% (T3) had significantly higher values of organic carbon (0.56 percent), available nitrogen (15...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sunil Kumar Dadhich•  7  Chemistry, Environment and climate change, Zinc, VermicompostTemperature Effects on the Development of Life Stages of Fall Armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) on MaizeThe effect of temperature on the development of different life stages of Spodoptera frugiperda on maize was assessed at the Centre for Agro Climatic Studies, University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur at five different constant... moreThe effect of temperature on the development of different life stages of Spodoptera frugiperda on maize was assessed at the Centre for Agro Climatic Studies, University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur at five different constant temperatures viz., 18, 22, 26, 30, and 32°C with a constant relative humidity 65 ± 5% for all the temperatures under growth chambers conditions. Over the temperature studied, the duration of different life stages decreased with a rise in temperature from 18 to 32°C. Where, the duration of the egg stage reduced from 6.00 days (1°C) to 2.00 days (32°C); for the larva from 31.50 to 10.10 days and for the pupae from 30.86 to 6.0 days. The temperature ranges of 26 to 30°C were found to be favourable for growth and development whereas the temperature extremities of 18 and 32°C were not favourable for the growth and development of fall armyworm; at 18°C there was no eclosion and at 32°C there was eclosion of adults but mortality occurred within an hour. The linear...Save to LibraryDownloadby SREENIVAS ADONI GINNU•Environment and climate changeEnhancing Soil Degradation Assessment through the Integration of GIS and RS: A Comprehensive ReviewGIS and RS are powerful tools that play a crucial role in natural resource management, especially when it comes to assessing soil degradation. Soil degradation is a long-standing global problem, and to understand the role of GIS and RS in... moreGIS and RS are powerful tools that play a crucial role in natural resource management, especially when it comes to assessing soil degradation. Soil degradation is a long-standing global problem, and to understand the role of GIS and RS in addressing it, data from secondary sources were collected and analyzed. Several researchers have utilized GIS and RS, integrated with the Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE), to assess soil degradation. Their findings reveal that soil erosion, triggered primarily by water, is a critical form of land degradation. This erosion significantly reduces the potential capacity of the soil, posing threats to economic growth, environmental resources, and social assets. Furthermore, the severity of soil erosion varies across different regions of the country. Despite the valuable insights gained through studies using GIS and RS for soil degradation assessment, their contributions are not yet widely recognized by government organizations, NGOs, policymakers, de...Save to LibraryDownloadby Vishakha Rai•Environment and climate changePerformance of Different Varieties of Tinda (Praecitrullus fistulosus) under Prayagraj Agro-climatic ConditionThe present experiment was carried out during summer season 2022-23 in Central Horticulture Research Farm of Department of Horticulture, SHUATS, Prayagraj. The experiment was conducted to evaluate Performance of different varieties of... moreThe present experiment was carried out during summer season 2022-23 in Central Horticulture Research Farm of Department of Horticulture, SHUATS, Prayagraj. The experiment was conducted to evaluate Performance of different varieties of Tinda (Praecitrullus fistulosus) under Prayagraj agro climatic condition. For the evaluation eight varieties treatments were V1-Ludhiana Special, V2- S-48, V3-Raja, V4-Komal, V5-IHS-45, V6-Laddu, V7-Heera, V8-Mahy Tinda are taken for the study in a Randomized Block Design with three replications in 2.5 x 1.5 m plot. The study revealed that the maximum vine length 182.8cm in V5 IHS-45. The number of primary branches was maximum in V5-IHS-45, 6.43 at final harvestings. At harvesting the number of nodes per plant was Maximum in V5-IHS-45, 34.36. Days to first female flower appearance was minimum in IHS45, 26.30. IHS-45 was found to be the best variety for fruit weight with 63.14gm. IHS-45 was found to be the best variety for diameter of fruit with 54.12mm...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•Environment and climate changeEffect of Growth Regulators on Plant Growth and Flower Yield in Marigold (Tagetes erecta)A field experiment was carried out in the Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj. During rabi season (2022-2023). The aim of this study was... moreA field experiment was carried out in the Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj. During rabi season (2022-2023). The aim of this study was to determine the effect of different growth regulators on plant growth, flowering and flower yield of African marigold and to estimate the economics of different treatments. This experiment was laid out in Randomized block design (RBD) with 10 treatments and each treatment replicated thrice. The treatments consist of different combinations of plant growth regulators (Gibberellic acid, Salicylic acid and Sea weed extract). Treatment T3 (Gibberellic acid @150ppm) was statistically significant compared to other treatment combination, which recorded highest plant height (44.11 cm), no. of branches (43.53), stem diameter (1.61 cm), no. of leaves (118.93), plant spread (37.17 cm2), Bud length (0.93cm), days to 1st flowering (66.07 days), Size of flower (8...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•Environment and climate changeEffect of Different Levels of NPK and Micronutrients for Plant Growth, Bulb and Quality of Onion (Allium cepa) in NFT System of HydroponicsAims: To evaluate the effect of different levels of NPK and micronutrients for plant growth, bulb and quality of Onion (Allium cepa) in NFT system of Hydroponics. Study Design: Randomized Block design. Place and Duration of Study: The... moreAims: To evaluate the effect of different levels of NPK and micronutrients for plant growth, bulb and quality of Onion (Allium cepa) in NFT system of Hydroponics. Study Design: Randomized Block design. Place and Duration of Study: The experiment was carried out in 2022 at the shadenet of Department of horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, SHUATS, Prayagraj. Methodology: The experiment was conducted in Randomized Block Design with 7+1 (Control) with 3 replications. The treatments were T0 Tap water, T1 (8.12ml NPK/Pl), T2 (9.37ml NPK/Pl), T3 (10.62ml NPK/Pl), T4 (11.87ml NPK/Pl), T5 (13.12ml NPK/Pl), T6 (14.37ml NPK/Pl), T7 (15.62ml NPK/Pl). From the present investigation it is found that treatment T7 )15.62ml NPK/Pl) was found to be best in terms of Plant length, Number of leaves, diameter and weight of bulb, girth of bulb, days to maturity, Days to flowering, days to maturity, average fresh weight, neck thickness at maturity, sensory evaluation, TSS, ascorbic acid, dry matter ...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•Environment and climate changeEffect of INM and Biofertilizers on Growth, Yield and Quality of Eggplant (Solanum melogena)This study aimed to determine the most effective combination of Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and biofertilizers for enhancing the growth, yield, and quality of eggplants (Solanum melongena). A randomized block design with ten... moreThis study aimed to determine the most effective combination of Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and biofertilizers for enhancing the growth, yield, and quality of eggplants (Solanum melongena). A randomized block design with ten treatments was employed, incorporating various biofertilizers (Trichoderma harzanium, Azotobacter, and Rhizobacter) and INM components (vermicompost, farmyard manure, and poultry manure).The treatment combinations were  T1 (100% Recommended Dose of Fertilizer - RDF), T2 (75% RDF + 25% Vermicompost + Azotobacter), T3 (50% RDF + 50% Vermicompost + Azotobacter), T4 (25% RDF + 75% Vermicompost + Azotobacter), T5 (75% RDF + 25% FYM + Trichoderma harzanium), T6 (50% RDF + 50% FYM + Trichoderma harzanium), T7 (25% RDF + 75% FYM + Trichoderma harzanium), T8 (75% RDF + 25% Poultry manure + Rhizobium), T9 (50% RDF + 50% Poultry manure + Rhizobium), and T10 (25% RDF + 75% Poultry manure + Rhizobium). The findings revealed that T1 exhibited the best performance in ...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•Environment and climate changeThe Growth Characteristic of Cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) Genotypes and Varieties Grown under Prayagraj Agro-climatic ConditionsThe experiment was carried out at Horticulture Research Field, Department of Horticulture, during the year 2022. This experiment was conducted to find out the best performing genotypes in relation of growth, yield and quality of cucumber.... moreThe experiment was carried out at Horticulture Research Field, Department of Horticulture, during the year 2022. This experiment was conducted to find out the best performing genotypes in relation of growth, yield and quality of cucumber. Seven cucumber genotypes such as IET, 2021/CUCUVAR-1,2,3,4,5,6,7 and three check variety namely NAZIA,LHC-1395 and MALINI were studied at SHUATS, Prayagraj in randomized block design with three replications in 4.5 x 3.0 m plot during summer season 2022 to find out the best performing genotype in related to growth, yield and fruit quality traits. NAZIA was found with the maximum fruit weight (247.67g), Fruit length (18.37cm), Fruit yield per plot (43.64 kg), Fruit yield (326.40 q/ha). NAZIA was found superior based on overall performance in term of growth, yield and quality and highest net return (3,33,718 Rs/ha). The highest cost benefit ratio (3.14) was found in cucumber NAZIA variety.Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•Environment and climate changeEffect of Different Levels of Controlled Release Fertilizers on Growth, Yield and Quality of Red Okra (Abelmoschus esculentus) Var Kashi Lalima under Prayagraj Agro-climatic ConditionAbout 40-70% of conventional fertilizer is wasted due to leaching causing environmental issues. Controlled release fertilizers provide a promising solution as they gradually release nutrients to match the crop&#39;s nutrient requirements,... moreAbout 40-70% of conventional fertilizer is wasted due to leaching causing environmental issues. Controlled release fertilizers provide a promising solution as they gradually release nutrients to match the crop&#39;s nutrient requirements, improving nutrient uptake efficiency and reducing nutrient losses. The Experiment was carried out During March To June 2021-22, using a randomized block design with three replications and eight treatments, including a control using the recommended dose of fertilizer (RDF). The statistical analysis of the variance showed that the use of CRF had a significant effect on the growth, yield, and quality of red okra. Among the different levels of CRF used, treatment T7 (11g CRF/plant) performed the best in terms of growth parameters such as plant height and number of leaves. Treatment T2 (7g CRF/plant) was found to perform the best in terms of earliness parameters. Treatment T5 (9g CRF/plant) had the highest yield with 14.30 t/ha. Treatment T6 (10g CRF/pl...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•Environment and climate changeEffect of Organic and Inorganic Fertilizer on Vegetative Growth Parameter of Lilium (Lilium Longiflorum) cv. Pavia under Shade Net ConditionThe present investigation entitled, “Effect of Organic and Inorganic Fertilizer on Vegetative Growth Parameter of Lilium (Lilium Longiflorum) cv. Pavia Under Shade Net Condition” was under taken in the Department of Horticulture, Naini... moreThe present investigation entitled, “Effect of Organic and Inorganic Fertilizer on Vegetative Growth Parameter of Lilium (Lilium Longiflorum) cv. Pavia Under Shade Net Condition” was under taken in the Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj, (Allahabad). During winter season of 2020-2021, 2021-2022 and Pooled. The experiment was layout in Randomized Block Design (RBD) with 13 treatments and each treatment replicated thrice. The treatments consist of different combinations of inorganic fertilizers (N, P and K) and organic fertilizers (FYM, Vermicompost and Poultry Manure) and control (No fertilizers and manures). The treatment T5 50% RDF + FYM 14 t ha-1 was found the statistically significant compared to other treatment combination, which recorded highest plant height (23.68, 57.11 and 76.41 cm), spread area (8.19 cm2, 15.54 cm2 and 18.47 cm2), Number of leaves (36.63, 57.11 and 76.41), ...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  6  Horticulture, Environment and climate change, Fertilizer, VermicompostEffect of Sun Drying on Osmotic Dehydration of Beetroot (Beta vulgaris L.)An Experiment was conducted at the Postharvest laboratory, Department of Horticulture entitled with “Effect of osmotic dehydration of beetroot (Beta vulgaris L.) under sun drying” during the year 2021-2022 to determine the effect of sun... moreAn Experiment was conducted at the Postharvest laboratory, Department of Horticulture entitled with “Effect of osmotic dehydration of beetroot (Beta vulgaris L.) under sun drying” during the year 2021-2022 to determine the effect of sun drying on osmotic dehydration of beetroot slices for its evaluation of physio-chemical contents, shelf life, and sensory evaluation during total 60 days of storage period and to work out on the economics In this study, 10 treatments with varying amounts of salt, honey, sugar, and K2S2O5 were used, with 4 replications (10 days, 30 days, 45 days, and 60 days) of storage periods at ambient temperature. On the basis of results obtained during the investigation the best osmotic agent for drying of beetroot slice was  T7 Treated beetroot slices  (Sugar 200g/Kg + K2S2O5 0.5%) + Sun drying of beetroot slices) with pH (6.30), TSS (11.46), fat content (0.28), Protein content (2.41), weight (92.5g). T7 (Treated beetroot slices (Sugar 200g/Kg + K2S2O5 0.5%) + Su...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  8  Chemistry, Food Science, Environment and climate change, SugarEffect of Organic Manures and Inorganic Fertilizers on Growth, Yield and Quality of Onion (Allium cepa) var. Nashik RedAn experiment was conducted to find out the effect of organic manures and inorganic fertilizers on growth, yield and quality of onion (Allium cepa L.) var. Nashik Red during 2021-2022 in Rabi season (Nov-Apr) at Horticulture Research... moreAn experiment was conducted to find out the effect of organic manures and inorganic fertilizers on growth, yield and quality of onion (Allium cepa L.) var. Nashik Red during 2021-2022 in Rabi season (Nov-Apr) at Horticulture Research Farm, Department of Horticulture, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh). Total 13 treatments were replicated thrice in Randomized Block Design (RBD).  The results showed that treatment T4 (75% NPK + 25% Poultry manure) was recorded maximum in growth and quality parameters i.e., plant height (62.29 cm), maximum number of leaves (10.38), maximum TSS (14.58 0Brix) and maximum ascorbic content  of (12.49).whereas, the yield parameters were maximum in treatment T8 (50% NPK + 50% Poultry manure) was recorded with maximum weight of fresh bulb weight (181.70 g), maximum weight of cured bulb (168.07 g), maximum bulb diameter (8.63 cm), maximum yield per plot (23.09 kg) and maximum yield per hectare (15.36 t).Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  6  Horticulture, Environment and climate change, Ascorbic Acid, Randomized Block designEffect of Exogenous Application of Auxin on Leaf Cuttings of Mexican Snow Ball (Echeveria elegans Rose)Aims: Succulents are on the rising trend of popularity due to its compromising behaviour with watering and durability indoors, creating a peaceful and healthy living condition. Thus it is the need of the hour to find a suitable... moreAims: Succulents are on the rising trend of popularity due to its compromising behaviour with watering and durability indoors, creating a peaceful and healthy living condition. Thus it is the need of the hour to find a suitable propagation method or use of exogenous substances with propagation to assist regenerating new plants. Study Design: The experiment was laid out in randomized block design (RBD) with three replications. Place and Duration of Study: The present investigation entitled Effect of IAA and IBA Application on leaf cuttings of Mexican Snow Ball (Echeveria elegans). Was conducted in Research Field, Department of Horticulture, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj, during February, 2021 to April, 2021. Methodology: The experiment was laid out in randomized block design (RBD) with three (IAA 100 ppm, IAA 300 ppm, IAA 500 ppm, IBA 100 ppm, IBA 300, IBA 500 ppm, IAA + IBA (100 ppm + 500 ppm), IAA + IBA (500 ppm  + 100 ppm) and Contr...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  5  Horticulture, Environment and climate change, Cutting, Randomized Block designEffect of Different Level of NPK and CRF for Plant Growth and Rhizome Yield in Arrowroot (Maranta arundinacea L.)The present investigation was carried out to Effect of different level of NPK and CRF for plant growth and rhizome yield in Arrowroot (Maranta arundinacea L.) was conducted in the horticulture Research Farm, Department of Horticulture,... moreThe present investigation was carried out to Effect of different level of NPK and CRF for plant growth and rhizome yield in Arrowroot (Maranta arundinacea L.) was conducted in the horticulture Research Farm, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higgin bottom University of Agriculture Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj (U.P.) during July 2021- April 2022. The experiment was laid out in RBD with 11 Treatments with 3 replications. The results revealed that the treatment T10 100% CRF(Control Release Fertilizer)performed the best in terms in Plant height (140.22), leaf length (49.06), leaf width (19.10), No. of tillers(14.33), fresh weight per plant (736.33), Number of rhizomes per plant (11.33), yield of rhizomes per plant (11.78), yield of rhizomes per hectare (81.81), Maximum cost benefit (3.50). Therefore, the treatment T10 100% CRF is the best when compared to other treatments. As, the highest benefit cost ratio was observed in T10 100% CRF. i.e. (3.50).Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  4  Horticulture, Environment and climate change, Rhizome, ShootEffect of Different Organic and Inorganic Fertilizers on Growth, Yield and Quality of Amaranthus under Polyhouse Condition (Amaranthus cruentus) cv. NSC 999IUSThe present investigation was carried out in the polyhouse of Horticultural Research Field, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agriculture Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agricultural Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj during... moreThe present investigation was carried out in the polyhouse of Horticultural Research Field, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agriculture Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agricultural Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj during year 2021on Amaranthus. The experiment was carried out in a Randomized Block Design consisting of 12 treatments with three replications using farm yard manure, vermicompost, poultry manure and goat manure for organic fertilizers and NPK for inorganic fertilizers to find out the best treatment combination. The application of treatment T9 [R.D.F50%+25% Poultry manure+25% Goat manure] was shown highest in terms growth attributes Plant height (37.02), Number of branches (29), plant spread (25.89), Root length (7.83), Yield per plant (151.27g), Yield per plot (5.56 kg), Yield per 200m2 (1112kg) and Anthocyanin content per 100g (158.8mg). T₉ [R.D.F 50%+50% Poultry manure] has given best results in terms of leaf length (7.36) and, Number of leaves (35.33). Th...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  4  Environment and climate change, Vermicompost, Manure, Randomized Block designEffect of Organic Fertilizers on Growth, Yield and Quality of Cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. Botrytis.)The present experiment was carried out during 2021-22 with an aim to study the different treatments of organic fertilizers on growth, yield and quality of Cauliflower and to work out with economics, in Central Horticulture Research Farm... moreThe present experiment was carried out during 2021-22 with an aim to study the different treatments of organic fertilizers on growth, yield and quality of Cauliflower and to work out with economics, in Central Horticulture Research Farm of Department of Horticulture, SHUATS,. The experiment was conducted in Randomized Block Design with 10 treatment replicated three times. The treatments were T1 FYM 100% (100:40:100), T2 Vermicompost (75%) + Poultry manure (25%), T3 Vermicompost (75%) + Goat manure (25%), T4 Vermicompost (50%) + Poultry manure (50%), T5 Vermicompost (50%) + Goat manure (50%), T6 Vermicompost (25%) + Poultry manure (75%), T7 Vermicompost (25%) + Goat manure (75%), T8 {Vermicompost + Poultry manure} (75%) + Goat manure (25%), T9{Vermicompost + Poultry manure} (50%) + Goat manure (50%), T10{Vermicompost + Poultry manure} (25%) + Goat manure (75%). From the present investigation it was concluded that treatment T5 Vermicompost (50%) + Goat manure (50%) was found best in t...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  5  Environment and climate change, Vermicompost, Brassica oleracea, ManureEffect of Nanochitosan and Biocapsules on Growth, Yield and Quality of Red Okra (Abelmoschus esculentus L. ) Var. Kashi LalimaAn experiment on okra was conducted throughout August to Nov 2021, in Horticulture Research Field, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, and Technology & Sciences Prayagraj... moreAn experiment on okra was conducted throughout August to Nov 2021, in Horticulture Research Field, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, and Technology & Sciences Prayagraj (U.P) India. The results of the investigation, concerning the performance of Nanochitosan and Biocapsule within the 9 treatment of Red Okra i.e. t0 control (NPK): 100:50:50 Kg/ha, T1 Biocapsule 250 ppm, T2 Biocapsule 500 ppm, T3 Nanochitosan 50 ppm, T4 Nanochitosan 100 ppm, T5 Nanochitosan 50 ppm + Biocapsule 250 ppm, T6 Nanochitosan 50 ppm + Biocapsule 500 ppm, T7 Nanochitosan 100 ppm + Biocapsule 250 ppm, T8 Nanochitosan 100 ppm + Biocapsule 500 ppm. The seed was obtained from source of IIVR Varanasi. To find out the best performance in terms of growth, yield and quality the experiment was conducted in randomized block design, where each treatment replicated thrice. The results from the current investigation concluded that the treatment T6 (Nanochi...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  5  Horticulture, Environment and climate change, Ascorbic Acid, Randomized Block designEffect of Nano Zeolite, Nano Micronutrients and Biocapsules on Plant Growth, Head Yield and Quality of Broccoli (Brassica oleracea var Italica)The present investigation was conducted at the Vegetable Research Farm, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology & Sciences (SHUATS), Prayagraj (U.P.), during the... moreThe present investigation was conducted at the Vegetable Research Farm, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology & Sciences (SHUATS), Prayagraj (U.P.), during the Rabi season of the year 2020–21. The experiment was laid out in a randomised block design with three replications and 15 treatments. T15 N P K (RDF) + Nanozeolite 50 ppm (Soil drenching)+ Biocapsule 500 ppm+ folia application of ZnO and FeO nano particles & T13 N P K (RDF) + Biocapsule 500 ppm (soil drenching) + foliar application of ZnO and FeOnano particles was found to be the best in Plant height, leaf area, and no of leaves. Again In terms of yield parameters, the treatment T15 N P K (RDF) + Nanozeolite 50 ppm (Soil drenching) + Biocapsule 500 ppm+ folia application of ZnO and FeO nano particles performed best in Head diameter (cm), Marketable Head Yield/plot (kg), Marketable Head Yield/hectare (q/ha), Harvest Index (%) (18.68 cm, 3.15 kg, 212.86 q...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  3  Horticulture, Environment and climate change, Brassica oleraceaEvaluation of Different Genotypes of Sponge Gourd (Luffa cylindrica M. Roem.) for Growth Yield and Fruit Quality in Prayagraj Agro-climatic ConditionsAn experiment was conducted to find out the best suitable genotypes of Sponge gourd in Prayagraj Agro-climatic conditions in the Vegetable Research Farm, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom... moreAn experiment was conducted to find out the best suitable genotypes of Sponge gourd in Prayagraj Agro-climatic conditions in the Vegetable Research Farm, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology & Sciences (SHUATS), Prayagraj (U.P.), during Zaid season of the year 2021. 22 genotypes including one check genotypes which are procured from Indian Institute of Vegetable Research center(IIVR),are evaluated and the experiment was laid out in randomized block design with three replications. The observations were recorded on growth, yield and Fruit quality. The results revealed that among all the IET/2020 SPGVAR-7 and AVT I/2019 SPGVAR-3 performed well in earliness parameters viz. Days to germination (6.69days),Days to first male flowering (51.533days), appearance of first male flower on node(3.6) and appearance of first female flower on node (7.81). In terms of vine Length maximum was recorded in AVT I/2019 SPGVAR 4 (4....Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  6  Horticulture, Forensic Science, Biology, Environment and climate changeEffect of Crop Geometry and Age of Seedlings on Its Growth, Flower Yield and Quality of Statice (Limonium sinuatum L.) under Prayagraj Agro Climatic ConditionsThe objective of this study is to find out the most suitable treatments for plant growth and flower yield and quality of Limonium (Limonium sinuatum L.) under prayagraj agro climatic conditions. The study was carried out at Experimental... moreThe objective of this study is to find out the most suitable treatments for plant growth and flower yield and quality of Limonium (Limonium sinuatum L.) under prayagraj agro climatic conditions. The study was carried out at Experimental field, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agriculture Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj (U.P.), India during Rabi season 2021-2022. The experiment was laid out in a Factorial randomized block design (FRBD) with 8 treatments which is replicated thrice. The first factor consists of four different levels age of seedlings i,e. 25,30,35,40 days old seedlings, second factor with two different spacings 45×60 cm and 30×45 cm. In Growth parameters, T7 (40 days seedlings + spacing of 45×60 cm) recorded significantly highest number of leaves (80.49), leaf length (32.20 cm), plant spread (45.65 cm2) Whereas, plant height was recorded significantly highest (84.80 cm) in T6 (35 days seedlings + spacing of 30×4...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  6  Horticulture, Biology, Environment and climate change, ChlorophyllEffect of Different Spacing on Yield and Yield Attributing Parameters of Red Cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata f. rubra)An experiment on Red Cabbage Genotypes planted in different planting densities was conducted during December, 2020 to February, 2021 in Research Field, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University... moreAn experiment on Red Cabbage Genotypes planted in different planting densities was conducted during December, 2020 to February, 2021 in Research Field, Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj (U.P.) India. The results of the present investigation, regarding the performance of six genotypes of Red Cabbage i.e. (CABRVAR - 1, CABRVAR - 2, CABRVAR – 3, CABRVAR – 4, CABRVAR – 5 and CABRVAR – 6) in two planting densities i.e. (60 x 45 cm and 60 x 60 cm) for plant growth, yield and quality of Red Cabbage, have been discussed and interpreted in the light of previous research work done in India and abroad. The experiment was conducted in 6x2 Factorial Randomized block design with 6 Genotypes of Red Cabbage obtained from different sources, were each genotype replicated thrice in different planting densities. From the present experimental findings it is found that the genotype G2 (CABRVAR - 2) foll...Save to LibraryDownloadby anita kerketta•  5  Horticulture, Brassica oleracea, Brassica, Randomized Block designVariability in the nutraceutical properties of fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum L.) seeds Variabilidad de las propiedades nutracéuticas de la alholva (Trigonella foenum-graecum L.)Save to LibraryDownloadby seema paroha•  6  Geography, Biology, Crop, NutraceuticalVarietal Evaluation of Carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus) in Naturally Ventilated Polyhouse under Prayagraj Agro-climatic ConditionCarnation, scientifically known as Dianthus caryophyllus, is a popular and attractive flowering plant that belongs to the Caryophyllaceae family. Native to the Mediterranean region, carnations are now cultivated all over the world for... moreCarnation, scientifically known as Dianthus caryophyllus, is a popular and attractive flowering plant that belongs to the Caryophyllaceae family. Native to the Mediterranean region, carnations are now cultivated all over the world for their beauty and fragrance. Therefore, present investigation was carried out at the Department of Horticulture, Naini Agricultural Institute, Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh during the Winter-2022-23 with a view to determine the performance of different varieties of carnation for its growth and flowering under ventilated polyhouse. Under this experiment, overall, 6 varieties were used comprising of variety Cerventes, Master, Magno, Baltico, Realism and Kiro. It was concluded that variety Baltico (white) reported significantly better performance compared to other varieties, in terms of Growth parameters like plant height was seen in cervantes (25.19 cm), number of leaves were maximum in master...Save to LibraryDownloadby shrangarika sharma•Environment and climate changeRice Straw Degradation with Mixed Cultures of Microfungi and Their EnzymesHuge quantities of agricultural residues are generated every year but it is neither converted into energy nor allowed to go back to the soil and sometimes burnt that leads to air pollution and loss of soil biology and fertility.... moreHuge quantities of agricultural residues are generated every year but it is neither converted into energy nor allowed to go back to the soil and sometimes burnt that leads to air pollution and loss of soil biology and fertility. Cellulolytic microfungi secrete extracellular enzymes that degrade lignocellulosic biomass in nature and this ability of microbes may be exploited to enhance the rates of degradation of agriculture residues to recycle carbon, nitrogen and minerals in the soil. This study aimed to find out the effect(s) of co-cultivation of high cellulolytic microfungi in various combinations on rice straw under field conditions to enhance its microbial decomposition to discourage the farmers from burning it in the fields. The effectiveness of five fungal cultures in different combinations was tested for efficient degradation of rice straw. Five dominant species of fungi that have been earlier shown to secrete high amounts of cellulases in our own laboratories, were cultured ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Rinni Sahrawat•Environment and climate changeA Systematic Review on Challenges and Conservation Strategies for Marine MegafaunaMarine megafauna play pivotal roles in oceanic ecosystems, contributing to their health, functionality, and biodiversity. These species are facing escalating threats, from direct harms such as overhunting to indirect pressures like... moreMarine megafauna play pivotal roles in oceanic ecosystems, contributing to their health, functionality, and biodiversity. These species are facing escalating threats, from direct harms such as overhunting to indirect pressures like habitat degradation and climate change. This systematic review explores the challenges confronting marine megafauna, examines current conservation strategies, and explores innovative future strategies. Current efforts, while beneficial, often fail to address socio-economic factors and cumulative threat impacts, and lack robust long-term outcome evaluations. Potential strategies, leveraging emerging technologies, climate-smart conservation, sustainable blue economies, and rights-based approaches, are discussed. Despite their potential, these strategies present challenges, necessitating further interdisciplinary, social, cumulative impact, and long-term monitoring research. Understanding and addressing these aspects is essential for the development of holis...Save to LibraryDownloadby morajdhwaj CHANDRAVANSHI•Environment and climate changeMorphological Description of Chickpea (Cicer arietanum L) Genotypes Using DUS CharacterizationThe cultivated chickpea (Cicer arietinum) holds great importance as a pulse crop in India. The identification and classification of diverse genotypes are crucial for implementing effective strategies to improve this crop. This study was... moreThe cultivated chickpea (Cicer arietinum) holds great importance as a pulse crop in India. The identification and classification of diverse genotypes are crucial for implementing effective strategies to improve this crop. This study was conducted to get a comprehensive morphological characterization of desi chickpea genotypes using the DUS (Distinctness, Uniformity, and Stability) descriptors suggested by the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmer&#39;s Rights Authority, Government of India, in 2018. Environmental conditions, such as temperature, light, humidity, and nutrient availability, can influence plant variability. Different environments impose selective pressures on plants resulting in variability within plant populations. The objective of the investigation was to identify and classify diverse chickpea genotypes based on 17 different qualitative traits observed in a field experiment. Among the 17 DUS traits only one trait exhibited a consistent phenotype (monomorphic), six...Save to LibraryDownloadby Niraj Tripathi•Environment and climate changeComparative Efficacy of Different Herbicidal Combinations on Weed Growth and Yield Attributes of WheatWeeds are the main biotic obstacles on wheat production, which can impair wheat productivity by up to 60%, if not handled under critical stages of crop life cycle. Chemical weed control through herbicides has been the most popular and... moreWeeds are the main biotic obstacles on wheat production, which can impair wheat productivity by up to 60%, if not handled under critical stages of crop life cycle. Chemical weed control through herbicides has been the most popular and effective method among farmers. The weed management using similar herbicides however has led to herbicide resistance in weeds. This requires the evaluation of newer herbicidal combinations for the control of weeds in wheat. Therefore, an experiment was conducted at Research Farm, Department of Agronomy, JNKVV, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh during the Rabi season of 2016-17 to evaluate the effect of post emergence application of herbicides on the weeds and yield of wheat. The experiment was laid out in randomized block design with ten treatments comprising of eight herbicidal combinations along with a hand weeding and a weed check and replicated thrice. Observations on different weed parameters, growth parameters and yield of wheat were recorded. Among the d...Save to LibraryDownloadby Badal Verma•Environment and climate changeExploring the Future of Agriculture through Nanotechnology: A ReviewAgriculture, as one of the oldest and most essential human endeavors, has constantly evolved through the integration of technology. In recent years, nanotechnology has emerged as a pivotal tool, redefining traditional agricultural... moreAgriculture, as one of the oldest and most essential human endeavors, has constantly evolved through the integration of technology. In recent years, nanotechnology has emerged as a pivotal tool, redefining traditional agricultural paradigms. This comprehensive review delves into the multifaceted implications and applications of nanotechnology within agriculture, providing a holistic view of its past, present, and future roles. Historically, nanotechnology&#39;s initial foray into agriculture sought to tackle prevalent challenges, from pest control to soil fertility. Despite some early obstacles, this merger has since showcased myriad successful applications, underscored by targeted and efficient solutions that significantly enhance crop yield and food quality. The present-day agricultural landscape is punctuated by nano-fertilizers ensuring optimal nutrient uptake, nanopesticides targeting pests with minimal off-target effects, nanosensors enabling precision agriculture, nano-based ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Hiren Das•Environment and climate changeA Systematic Review on Challenges and Conservation Strategies for Marine MegafaunaMarine megafauna play pivotal roles in oceanic ecosystems, contributing to their health, functionality, and biodiversity. These species are facing escalating threats, from direct harms such as overhunting to indirect pressures like... moreMarine megafauna play pivotal roles in oceanic ecosystems, contributing to their health, functionality, and biodiversity. These species are facing escalating threats, from direct harms such as overhunting to indirect pressures like habitat degradation and climate change. This systematic review explores the challenges confronting marine megafauna, examines current conservation strategies, and explores innovative future strategies. Current efforts, while beneficial, often fail to address socio-economic factors and cumulative threat impacts, and lack robust long-term outcome evaluations. Potential strategies, leveraging emerging technologies, climate-smart conservation, sustainable blue economies, and rights-based approaches, are discussed. Despite their potential, these strategies present challenges, necessitating further interdisciplinary, social, cumulative impact, and long-term monitoring research. Understanding and addressing these aspects is essential for the development of holis...Save to LibraryDownloadby Hiren Das•Environment and climate changeEffect of Herbicidal Weed Management on Yield Attributes, and Yield of Kodo (Paspalum scrobiculatum L.)The present experiment was carried out at the Instructional cum Research Farm, Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Raipur, Chhattisgarh during Kharif seasons 2021 and 2022. The field experiment was laid out with Indira Kodo 1 variety as... moreThe present experiment was carried out at the Instructional cum Research Farm, Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Raipur, Chhattisgarh during Kharif seasons 2021 and 2022. The field experiment was laid out with Indira Kodo 1 variety as test crop in Randomized block design (RBD) with 10 treatment and 3 replications. Results of the experiment revealed that, different weed management practices affected all the yield attributes and yield viz., Number of Ear Head, Length of Ear Head (cm), Number of Seeds Ear Head, Ear Head Weight (g), Test Weight (g), Harvest Index (%) and were significantly higher under Pyrazosulfuron ethyl 10 % 20 g/ha (PE) fb Chlorimuron ethyl 10 % + Metsulfuron methyl 10 % 4 g/ha (PoE) which was followed by Hand weeding twice at 20 and 40 DAS. All the yield attributes and seed yield were equally highest in both the kharif seasons i.e. seed and straw yield of kodo (Mean viz., 2044 and 4073 kg ha-1) were also found maximum under the treatment Pyrazosulfuron ethyl 10...Save to LibraryDownloadby Rama Mohan Savu•Environment and climate changeEffect of Micronutrients on Growth of Onion (Allium cepa L.)Onion is one of the most important bulb crop grown all over the India. It belongs to family Alliaceae and locally known as Pyaj. An experiment was conducted to determine the effect of micronutrients on growth of Onion (Allium cepa L.)... moreOnion is one of the most important bulb crop grown all over the India. It belongs to family Alliaceae and locally known as Pyaj. An experiment was conducted to determine the effect of micronutrients on growth of Onion (Allium cepa L.) during Rabi season of 2019-2020 at the Horticultural Research centre of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technology, Meerut (U.P.). The experiment was laid out in Randomized Block Design (RBD) with three replications. The maximum plant height (27.18, 43.32, 49.22 and 47.45 cm at 30, 60, 90 and at harvest after days of transplanting, respectively), number of leaves (5.11, 8.83, 12.87 and 13.98 at 30, 60, 90 and at harvest after days of transplanting, respectively), diameter of stem per plant (6.64, 8.97, 11.13 and 10.95 mm at 30, 60, 90 and at harvest after days of transplanting, respectively) and length of longest leaf at harvesting (43.56 cm) were reported under treatment T9 -RDF + Zinc Sulphate 20 Kg ha-1 + Borax 10 Kg ha-1 wher...Save to LibraryDownloadby Siddharth Kumar•  8  Horticulture, Environment and climate change, Crop, Randomized Block designDesign and Development of a Solar PV Based Evaporative Cooled Transit Storage Unit for Horticultural ProductsAdequate cold storage facility for Horticultural products is critical due to their perishable nature. Green energy based evaporative cooling storage unit is a sustainable and efficient solution for small scale farmers and vegetable... moreAdequate cold storage facility for Horticultural products is critical due to their perishable nature. Green energy based evaporative cooling storage unit is a sustainable and efficient solution for small scale farmers and vegetable vendors in hot and dry climates who need to store their produce. Solar power operated evaporative cooling structures are low cost and efficient in reducing ambient temperature and increasing relative humidity, which increases the shelf-life of vegetables. A green energy-based evaporative cooling transit storage unit of 0.63m3 capacity was designed and fabricated. The transit unit was designed and operated as a a tricycle. Two suction fans (15.6W), submersible water pump (12W) and LED light (2.88Wp) were powered through two 100-Wp solar panels. Two batteries, 7Ah each were also used to store energy. The storage unit was made up of MS sheets of 1.2mm thick while a side of the system was made up of GI wire mesh with honeycomb pad. To test the performance of ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Manisha Jagadale•Environment and climate changeExploring the Benefits of Rice Husk Waste: Synthesis and Characterization of Biochar and Nanobiochar for Agricultural and Environmental SustainabilityRice husk waste is a significant byproduct of rice production in developing countries, with a vast annual production. This waste material has been extensively used as an adsorbent for various substances due to its adsorption capabilities.... moreRice husk waste is a significant byproduct of rice production in developing countries, with a vast annual production. This waste material has been extensively used as an adsorbent for various substances due to its adsorption capabilities. Biochar, a carbon-rich material produced through pyrolysis of biomass, has gained attention for its diverse applications in agriculture and the environment. In this study, rice husk biochar and nanobiochar were synthesized and characterized to explore their potential benefits for agricultural and environmental sustainability. The biochar was prepared by pyrolysis of rice husk at 500°C in a low-oxygen environment, followed by grinding and sieving. Nanobiochar was obtained by ball milling the biochar particles. The physical and physicochemical properties of both biochar and nanobiochar were evaluated, including bulk density (0.41 and 0.59 Mg m-3), particle density (0.49 and 0.54 Mg m-3), water holding capacity (168.6 and 178.5%), pH (8.4 and 7.3), el...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sreenivasa Chari•Environment and climate changeOpportunities and Constraints for Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience Building among the Kenyan Pastoral Communities, Mandera County, KenyaClimate-related hazards have been recorded as the main triggers for major disasters worldwide. However, extensive research in Opportunities and Constraints for Disaster Risk Reduction Interventions is greatly lacking. This study sought to... moreClimate-related hazards have been recorded as the main triggers for major disasters worldwide. However, extensive research in Opportunities and Constraints for Disaster Risk Reduction Interventions is greatly lacking. This study sought to research on this gap among pastoral communities of Mandera County. Three sampling techniques; stratified sampling, simple random and purposive sampling were used to collect data and information from key informants with a sample size of 157. The findings were analysed with Statistical Package of Social Sciences and Excel. Data were presented in tables, pie-chart and graphs. The hypothesis was tested by Chi-Square (X2). The null hypothesis of drought shocks had no association with effective and affordable practices of drought mitigation and preparedness in Mandera County, χ2 =4.468, DF=6, P=0.624, failed to be rejected.Save to LibraryDownloadby francis irungu•  5  Kenya, Environment and climate change, Preparedness, Null HypothesisCharacterization and Classification of Sugarcane Growing Soil of Haryana, IndiaEight representative pedons of sugarcane growing soil of Haryana viz., Damla, Yamunanagar (P1), Shahabaad, Kurukshetra (P2), RRS, Karnal (P3), Kaithal (P4), Mehlana, Sonipat (P5), Nidhani, Jind (P6), Mokhra, Rohtak (P7) and Meham, Rohtak... moreEight representative pedons of sugarcane growing soil of Haryana viz., Damla, Yamunanagar (P1), Shahabaad, Kurukshetra (P2), RRS, Karnal (P3), Kaithal (P4), Mehlana, Sonipat (P5), Nidhani, Jind (P6), Mokhra, Rohtak (P7) and Meham, Rohtak (P8) were studied for morphological, physico-chemical characteristics and classified as per Soil Taxonomy. The colour of the studied pedons varied from yellowish brown (10YR 3/2) to dark brown (10YR 5/5) in colour, with dominant hue of 10YR. The range of bulk density of different horizons was 1.05 to 1.33 Mg m-3. These soils were slightly alkaline to moderately alkaline in reaction. The soils of all the pedons of studied area were non saline in nature having EC &lt; 1.36 dSm-1. Exchangeable Sodium percentage (ESP) and Base Saturation Percentage (BSP) ranged from 1.65 to 47.55 % and 23.18 to 99.60 % respectively. The CEC of the soils ranged from 1.98 to 13.82 cmol (p+) kg-1. The soils of the area were classified according to Soil Taxonomy as  Fine lo...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sekhar Kumar•  4  Agronomy, Environment and climate change, Soil Classification, Soil WaterNextLast »Related TopicsGreen GrowthFollowFollowingRenewable Energy Technologies in AfricaFollowFollowingRegional Trade in AfricaFollowFollowingTrade and UnemploymentFollowFollowingSustainable DevelopmentFollowFollowingBachelor of Arts in GeographyFollowFollowingRenewable EnergyFollowFollowingEnvironmental Hazards and DisastersFollowFollowingEnvironmental HazardsFollowFollowingEconomicsFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023