The Government, Prime Minister and Cabinet : Directgov - Government, citizens and rights
128 captures
08 Sep 2008 - 09 Jul 2023
Aug
SEP
Nov
21
2011
2012
2013
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks February 2012
  Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started February, 2012. These files are currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20120921004951/http://www.direct.gov.uk/en/Governmentcitizensandrights/UKgovernment/Centralgovernmentandthemonarchy/DG_073444
Go to main content
Website of the UK government
Please note that this website has a UK government accesskeys system.
Public services all in one place
Main menu
Home
Contacts
Do it online
Newsroom
Video
Friday, 21 September 2012
Page menu
Browse by subject
Crime and justice
 
Education and learning
 
Employment
 
Environment and greener living
 
Government, citizens and rights
 
UK government
 
Central government and the monarchy
Health and well-being
 
Home and community
 
Money, tax and benefits
 
Motoring
 
Pensions and retirement planning
 
Travel and transport
Browse by people
Young people
 
Britons living abroad
 
Caring for someone
 
Disabled people
 
Parents
Government, citizens and rights
The Government, Prime Minister and Cabinet
Her Majesty's Government consists of those ministers responsible for the conduct of national affairs. The Queen alone appoints the Prime Minister, and all other ministers are appointed by her on the Prime Minister's recommendation. 
Government ministers
Most ministers are members of the House of Commons, although the government is also fully represented by ministers in the House of Lords.The composition of governments can vary both in the number of ministers and in the titles of some offices. New ministerial offices may be created, others may be abolished, and functions may be transferred from one minister to another.
Key ministerial posts announced
The Prime Minister
As head of the UK government, the Prime Minister oversees the operation of the Civil Service and government agencies, appoints members of the Cabinet, and is the principal government figure in the House of Commons. The Prime Minister is also, by tradition, the First Lord of the Treasury – and draws his or her salary in that role, rather than as Prime Minister.The Prime Minister's unique position of authority comes from majority support in the House of Commons and the power to appoint and dismiss ministers. By modern convention, the Prime Minister always sits in the Commons.The Prime Minister presides over the Cabinet, is responsible for allocating functions among ministers and, at regular meetings with the Queen, informs her of the general business of the government.The Prime Minister's other responsibilities include recommending a number of appointments to the Queen. These include high-ranking members of the Church of England, senior judges and certain civil appointments. He also recommends appointments to several public boards and institutions, as well as to various royal and statutory commissions.The Prime Minister's Office supports him in his role as head of government. This includes providing policy advice, tracking the delivery of government commitments and initiatives, and ensuring effective communications to Parliament, the media and the public.
Number 10 website Opens new window
The Cabinet
The Cabinet is the committee at the centre of the British political system and the supreme decision-making body in government.The British Prime Minister has traditionally been referred to as ‘primus inter pares’, which means ‘first among equals’ and demonstrates that he or she is a member of the collective decision-making body of the Cabinet, rather than an individual who has powers in their own right. The Prime Minister is first among equals simply in recognition of the responsibility held for appointing and dismissing all the other Cabinet members.Cabinet ministers are the highest-ranking ministers in the government, and most government departments have one Cabinet minister (or more). Most Cabinet ministers are titled ‘Secretary of State’ – although some have traditional titles, such as the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Chief Whip.
How Cabinet works
Every Tuesday while Parliament is in session, the Cabinet meets in the Cabinet room at 10 Downing Street to discuss the issues of the day. Government Cabinets have met in the same room since 1856, when it was called the Council Chamber.The Prime Minister chairs the meeting and sets its agenda; he also decides who speaks around the Cabinet table, and sums up at the end of each item. It is this summing up that then becomes government policy.
More about the Cabinet and its history Opens new window
Cabinet committees
In addition to the whole Cabinet meetings, a range of Cabinet committees meet in smaller groups to consider policy with other ministers who are closely involved with the relevant issue.The Prime Minister decides who will sit on these committees, and the relevant committee is consulted for clearance before any new piece of legislation that an individual minister wants to introduce is brought before Parliament.A list of the current committees and the ministers who sit on them is available from the Cabinet Office website.
the list of Cabinet committees Opens new window
In this section...
Overview of the UK system of government
The monarchy
Government departments and agencies
The Civil Service
UK law, archives and government information
Bookmark with:
Facebook
Twitter
StumbleUpon
Delicious
Reddit
 How do you use this toolbar?
Additional links
Nominate someone for an honour
More than 2,500 Britons are honoured each year with orders such as the OBE or the MBE - anyone can make a nomination
Nominating someone for an honour
Diamond Jubilee
Find out what's happening, and how you can take part
Celebrations and events
Global links
About Directgov
Linking to Directgov
Terms and conditions
Cookies
Privacy
© Crown copyright
Site indexHelpCookiesAccessibility
Cymraeg
Search this site
 
 
Access keys
Home
Newsroom
Site index
Help
Complaints procedure
Terms and conditions
Access key details
Back to top
If you would like to take part in our website visitor survey, please visit the site and then come back and select this link to take part in the survey.
If you would like to take part in our website visitor survey, please visit the site and then come back and select this link to take part in the survey.