Malaysia defends palm oil production - Telegraph
200 captures
01 Dec 2009 - 04 Jun 2023
Nov
DEC
Mar
01
2008
2009
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20091201030531/http://www.telegraph.co.uk:80/earth/earthnews/3296977/Malaysia-defends-palm-oil-production.html
Accessibility links
Skip to article
Skip to navigation
Digital Publisher of the Year
| Tuesday 01 December 2009
| Earth News feed
Advertisement
Website of the Telegraph Media Group with breaking news, sport, business, latest UK and world news. Content from the Daily Telegraph and Sunday Telegraph newspapers and video from Telegraph TV.
Enhanced by Google
Home
News
Sport
Finance
Lifestyle
Comment
Travel
Culture
Technology
Fashion
Jobs
Dating
Games
 Offers
UK
World
UK Politics
Celebrities
Obituaries
Weird
Earth
Science
Health News
Education
Topics
News Blogs
News Video
Earth News
Climate Change
Environment
Wildlife
Outdoors
Picture Galleries
Earth Video
Home
Earth
Earth News
Malaysia defends palm oil production
 
By Charles Clover, Environment Editor
Published: 12:01AM BST 10 Jun 2007
The oil palm has been grown in Malaysia since the 1870s
 
Malaysia, one of the world’s leading growers of palm oil, has hit back at allegations that Europe's growing use of "green" fuels will increase the destruction of rainforests and great apes, such as the orang utan.
       
In March, EU leaders agreed to set a binding climate change target to make biofuel - energy sources made from plant material - account for 10 per cent of all Europe's transport fuels by 2020.
        
 
Related Articles
30 May 2007 Earth: Demand for biofuels 'threatens great apes'
But the European Commission has since admitted that the objective, which aims to cut carbon dioxide emissions, may have the unintended consequence of speeding up the destruction of tropical rainforests and peatlands in South-East Asia - actually increasing, not reducing, global warming.
          
Peter Chin, Malaysian minister of plantation industries and commodities, offered a solution to this problem in an interview with The Daily Telegraph.  
       
He favours the certification of palm oil from established plantations under internationally-agreed standards.
       
He also argues that palm oil is actually a superior fuel to rape seed, maize and soya - grown for biofuels in Europe and America - from an environmental point of view.  
       
An independent study commissioned by the Malaysian government has shown that palm oil requires an input of only 30-40 per cent of fossil fuels to produce a given amount of energy compared to an input of up to 60 per cent fossil fuels in the process of making biofuels from maize, rape seed or soya. 
        
The oil palm, which originated in West Africa, has been grown in Malaysia since the British took it there in the 1870s.   
      
Mainland Malaysia is far more developed than the provinces of Sabah and Sarawak in Borneo, which have sovereignty over their forests and where timber has long been treated as a kind of green gold.
There has been persistent criticism from environmentalists over the effect logging in Borneo has had on biodiversity and  native tribes who live in the forest.  
       
Mr Chin points out that in Sarawak the amount of land devoted to agriculture, which includes oil palm, is only four per cent. 
        
"I think there is a great misconception that we are going wholesale for palm oil," he said.  
"In mainland Malaysia, there is hardly any land left that can be converted to palm production.  With only five per cent of our total land mass converted to agriculture, how do you expect the people to live?  Agriculture is the way for them to earn a decent living.  Is it wrong to go and plant palm?"
Europe already imports 2.7 million tons of palm oil a year for use as a vegetable oil in foods and soaps.
European consumption of plant-based fuels is expected to soar from around three million tons at present to more than 30 million tons in 2010, driving a boom in imports of palm oil which is cheaper than other biofuels.
       
Mr Chin said the Malaysian government supports moves by the EU to have "properly regulated and supervised agriculture for palm" under the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil  - a global, multi-forum set up to encourage the sustainable production and use of palm oil. 
       
RSPO members include Waitrose, the Body Shop, HSBC and Cargill, the company with extensive palm oil plantations in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea.
      
"We have to have palm as a sustainable, long-term crop. That is why we are taking this initiative," Mr Chin said.
       He said that a certification scheme for palm oil was "quite close" and some plantations would be certified as sustainable by November under a voluntary scheme. 
       
Mr Chin admits that Malaysian palm oil, from established plantations, would be undercut if there was widespread and unsustainable forest clearance in South America, New Guinea and Africa for oil palm, so certification of sustainable plantations is in Malaysia's interests.
       
Indonesia, which has presided over widespread and often illegal clearance of forest for plantations in the orang utan habitats of Sumatra and Kalimantan, remains a problem. 
Between them, Malaysia and Indonesia account for 85 per cent of the world’s production of palm oil.
       
Mr Chin said: "We are as concerned about Indonesia as you are.  We want Indonesia to come along with us. We are appealing to the EU to be reasonable about it.  We want to get into sustainable production but allow them time to get their act together, and the proper infrastructure in place to show it is sustainable.
       "I don’t think your rape seed or sunflower oil have that – are they certifiable?"
       
He admits there is one remaining obstacle for an internationally agreed certification scheme.  If EU countries were to use it as a way of excluding palm oil, that would be deemed illegal by the World Trade Organisation. 
       
Mr Chin says these rules "may have to be renegotiated".
       
Environmentalists remain concerned about the amount of previously logged forest being zoned for agriculture in Malaysia. 
         
Ed Matthew, of Friends of the Earth, said: "While it is true that palm oil is one of the most productive vegetable oils and that significant carbon savings can be made if the crop is grown sustainably compared to the use of conventional fossil fuel, the reality is that the Malaysian government has plans to convert over one million hectares of forest into oil palm plantations. 
"Such forest land conversion, which is likely to include the conversion of peat forests, threatens to create substantial global warming emissions."
Email
Print
 
Share
|
Email
|
Print
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/earthnews/3296977/Malaysia-defends-palm-oil-production.html
TelegraphNews
 
Earth News
 Get feed updates
Earth
 Get feed updates
More on
Earth News
 Get feed updates
Earth
 Get feed updates
Advertisement
Telegraph.co.uk on Digg
Advertisement
EARTH LINKS
Al Gore: solutions to the climate crisis
Stern review of climate change economics
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
Earth Most Viewed
TODAY
PAST WEEK
PAST MONTH
Sea level rise will double due to melting of Antarctica
Leaked climate change emails 'won't bias UN global warning body' says chairman
Rat-eating plant discovered in Philippines
GPs 'should offer climate change advice to patients'
Polar bear pictured 'waving' at camera
Lord Lawson calls for public inquiry into UEA global warming data 'manipulation'
University of East Anglia emails: the most contentious quotes
Killer whales attack and eat sharks
GPs 'should offer climate change advice to patients'
Climate change emails: plot or damp squib?
Japanese fishing trawler sunk by giant jellyfish
Climate change 'sceptic' Ian Plimer argues CO2 is not causing global warming
Al Gore could become world's first carbon billionaire
Everyone in Britain could be given a personal 'carbon allowance'
Crocodile attacked and killed by angry hippos
Sponsored Features
Talking Energy with E.ON
We invite you to talk about the UK's energy for future generations, and to 
  join us at our Energy Debate.
Telegraph Energy Switching
Save money on household bills by comparing tariffs and services quickly and 
  securely.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
Sponsored Features
Working for change
Major company leaders offer their visions to help make a low-carbon economy a 
  reality.
MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK
 
 
TELEGRAPH JOBS
Brain training games
Give your mind a work out with free brain training games.
Play now
 
CHRISTMAS
 
Telegraph Christmas Charity Appeal 2009.
 
TECHNOLOGY
 
Gift ideas for the gadget lovers this Christmas.
 
FASHION
 
Christmas stocking fillers for her.
 
PROSPECTUS GUIDE 2010
 
Looking for a good school? Browse our school guide for 2010.
Back to top
Hot topics
Dubai
Tiger Woods
Football
X Factor
Copenhagen Climate Change Conference
Susan Boyle
World Cup 2010
Christmas 2009
News
UK News
World News
Obituaries
Travel
Health
Jobs
 
Sport
World Cup 2010
Football
Rugby Union
Culture
Motoring
Dating
 
Finance
Personal Finance
Markets
Economics
Fashion
Property
Games
 
Comment
Letters
My Telegraph
Blogs
Technology
Gardening
Offers
 
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Advertising
A to Z
Announcements
Promotions
Reader Prints
RSS feeds
Widgets
Mobile
Epaper
Subscribe
Syndication
 
© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast
 
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/earthnews/3296977/Malaysia-defends-palm-oil-production.html