Requests for new languages/Wikipedia Tarantino - Meta
Requests for new languages/Wikipedia Tarantino
From Meta, a Wikimedia project coordination wiki
< Requests for new languages
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Tarantino Wikipedia[edit]
←main page
Requests for new languages (Wikipedia Tarantino)
submitted
verification
final decision
This proposal has been approved.The Board of Trustees and language committee have deemed that there is sufficient grounds and community to create the new language project. 
The closing committee member provided the following comment: The requested project was created at roa-tara: at an indeterminate date. Note that this request was approved before the implementation of the standardised Language proposal policy, and should not be used as a model for future requests. Shanel 04:04, 7 January 2007 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Contents
1 Tarantino Wikipedia
Proposal summary
Language details: Dialetto tarantino (Tarandíne, roa-tara [invented])
Editing community: Beren85 (P), Capitanonemo, Maximix
List your user name if you're interested in editing the wiki. Add "N" next to your name if you are a native speaker of this language.
Relevant pages: —
External links: —
Please read the handbook for requesters for help using this template correctly.
Language code: (ISO639-1) ???.wikipedia.org (tar is impossible would be http://www.ethnologue.com/show_language.asp?code=tar)
Proposed domain: tara.wikipedia.org
Wikipedia article: it:Dialetto tarantino
Number of speakers: About 220.000
Locations spoken: it:Taranto (Italy)
Related languages: it:Salentino, it:Lingua napoletana
Request made in this diff December 28, 2005 20:33
Support:I'm Pugliese too and I would like so much the Tarantino to be an official language 82.59.9.56 December 28, 2005 21:12
Support:I think that this dialect is somewhat different by italian. Sometimes turists think tarantian dialect may be a sort of arabic language. Even if it has some morphological simile with the neapolitan language, it sounds completly strange for neapolitan people, infact they cannot understand each other if they speack quickly and with their own intonation. Its' amazing to see how the tarantinian people has become attached to their traditions and their customs. I think that a Tarantinian Wikipedia may be the best thing to emprove the popularization of the language of Taranto. Beren85 December 28, 2005 21:51
Support, but enough native or advanced spekers must be found. :o) Hégésippe | ±Θ± 08:38, 9 January 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Haven't heard about it before. Because of the location: maybe a sub-dialect of Napolitan? -- Raetius 11:38, 10 January 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Support basically it would be usefull to have a separate wiki even if I suppose we will not get enough people being able to edit such a wiki. On the nap wikipedia I was asked if we could integrate it there - well: if we find the right way to structure it, I would say: we can integrate local "minority languages" on any wikipedia. In some way I am thinking in the direction of the namespace manager and/or wikidata right now. We could also create portals that care about the single minority languages within a language code. It would make sense since the language of that specific town/region/city would be preserved. I know for a fact that writing and pronunciation from one place to the other within the "nap" language code region can differ a lot - even between Maiori where I live and Amalfi there are some basic differences. So: we just must find the right way to do things. I will come back on this matter after having talked with some poeple trying to understand how we could make this local language happen. --Sabine 15:41, 12 January 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Well ... as soon as I posted this we had someone who signed with "Nico" who told us ma chi ve lo ha detto che il napoletano si parla in Calabria e in Pugliavulite pazzia'?!Nico'   (without logging in) ... for now that user was blocked for spamming ... sorry ... but some people do not seem to understand. If this Nico' is around here: please contact me. - First of all: I would very much support this wikipedia because I know that it is a different language, but we have that strange situation that Pugliese is not known as a language of its own. Even if we cannot compare this problem directly to Sardinian, it is somewhat similar. Following Ethnologue Pugliese is part of "Italian" as a dialect. Following linguistic maps it belongs to the Neapolitan language group. Now Apulia is quite a big region with a huge variety of dialects or better languages since a language is a dialect and nothing else (or say it the other way round if you want). 
I heard that there is an ISO standard for proposal ISO 639-6 that is for dialects - so I will try to find out if there is already some kind of code we could use. The next thing is: what to do if for now there is no way to start this wikipedia - well the next version of the Mediawiki software includes a Namespace Manager that can be of help in that specific situation. So please: before getting angry and saying that we say that Tarandíne is part of Neapolitan understand that it is not us, but that organisations that are about language codes and linguistics do that. Personally I am, like many others I suppose, for giving the possibility to write articles in this language - so if the wikipedia should not be possible, we will simply find a way to do it. Wikipedia is about NPOV and giving the possibility to all people to read encyclopaedic articles in their language ... well we are geting closer and closer to a stage where this will be really possible. But please also understand that sometimes it is not easy to create a wikipedia for a language where there is no official recognition. Thanks! --Sabine 21:25, 12 January 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Oppose - not one more dialect-Wikipedia! Kenwilliams 20:07, 13 March 2006 (UTC) -- vote invalidated by DIQ precedentReply[reply]
Support nl:Boudewijn Idema, 13:47, 19 March 2006 (UTC)
Support Just one doubt, which may be meaningless (I really cannot judge myself): cannot you guys unite all the apulian languages into a basic koiné? I mean, this obviously would not include the albanian and greek minorities, but maybe would give you more users, readers and writers. Think about it. Making a wikipedia is a LOT of work bertodsera March 21, 2006 18:12
retiring my doubt after getting a bit of further info. Tarendine appears as a neo-sannitic language, and obviously cannot be grouped with its neighbours. Wish you good luck, guys! bertodsera March 25, 2006 12:12 (GMT+2)
Weak support Note that you cannot group all varieties of Apulia as a single language.  The southern ones (Salento) belong to the Sicilian group, the northern ones belong to the Neapolitan group.  It turns out that Taranto lies right on the isogloss between them, which is fairly sharp; hence Tarandine is a transition language, which does not typify the linguistic situation of Apulia as a whole.  Speakhits 11:09, 24 March 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Sorry but I must oppose this one. Not even SIL who assign the title "language" very generously consider this a distinct idiom. Arbeo 18:06, 30 March 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I entirely disagree about SIL.  They refuse to recognize the langues d'oïl (including Norman) as different languages from French, despite the fact that Jersey Norman (Jèrriais), at least, is a) politically separate from French, b) not mutually intercomprehensible with French, c) a recognized regional language by the British-Irish Council, and d) has a standardized orthography, literary tradition (dating back 800 years), and distinct regional dialects.  The language is currently being taught in schools (as a separate language from French), and a GCSE in the language should appear shortly.  Dictionaries exist between Jèrriais and English and Jèrriais and French.  (And, furthermore, Jersey has its own regional version of French, which is not Jèrriais).  Seeing as they, despite all this, do not recognize Jèrriais (or Norman in general) as a separate language, you can thus hardly say that SIL is "very generous".  However, I'm neutral about a Tarantino Wikipedia—I think we'd need to see a very successful test-wiki before considering it.  The Jade Knight 21:02, 2 April 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Strongly oppose I'm italian with strong knowledge in linguistic science and I have never been informed about this languages. In Italy there are some differences in the same dialects in several towns, but these are minor differences. Tarantino is only a variation in a bigger dialect which is "pugliese". --Ilario 09:47, 4 April 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Well Ilario, if you have never been informed about tha tarantinian language and the linguistic apulian situation, you're showing you haven't this "strong knowledge"... Read about this dialect a little bit more and then explain us (with real linguistic motivations) why it cannot be considered a separate idiom. Beren85 20.13, 14 April 2006 (UTC)
Support Different enough to be considered a separate language. --Wodan 11.46, 14 April 2006
Here you are: this it the test-wiki about tarantino. http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Test-wp/tara
Obviously it can be made much better. ;-) Beren85 21.00, 15, April 2006 (UTC)
Mild support - it's true that it's hard to tell this language from any other of the 100+ dialects spoken in Italy, but if a sufficient number of speakers exists and they have the will to start the project and the perseverance to make it grow, they will get their right to exist "on the battlefield". --Paginazero 19:45, 15 April 2006 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Retrieved from "https://meta.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Requests_for_new_languages/Wikipedia_Tarantino&oldid=5437425"
Categories: Approved requests for new languagesItalian regional languages
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Content pageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageWikimedia NewsTranslationsRecent changesRandom pageHelpBabel
Community
Wikimedia Resource CenterWikimedia ForumMailing listsRequestsBabylonReportsResearchPlanet Wikimedia
Beyond the Web
Meet WikimediansEventsMovement affiliatesDonate
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this page
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other languages
Add links
 This page was last edited on 27 April 2013, at 16:30.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Privacy policy
About Meta
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement