Features - Update to A Guide to the UK Legal System | LLRX.com
 
264 captures
04 Aug 2001 - 09 Jul 2023
Jan
MAY
Oct
05
2011
2012
2013
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wide Crawl started April 2012
  Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from April 2012.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20120505115306/http://www.llrx.com/features/uk2.htm
LLRX.com
 
Search
LLRX.com
LLRX and beSpacific
Legal Web
 
Navigation
Home
Court Rules, Forms & Dockets
Article Archives
Subjects
Date
Author
Column
Legal Research
Legal Technology
Librarian Resources
Legal Marketing
Submit an Article
Subscribe
beSpacific Blog
About LLRX
LLRX Awards and Press
Advertise on LLRX
Contact LLRX
Home » Carter, Sarah 
Features - Update to A Guide to the UK Legal System
By Sarah Carter, Published on August 1, 2001 
 Printer-Friendly Version
 
Sarah Carter  
is Law Librarian at the University of
Kent at Canterbury, UK. She has been
active in organising electronic legal information since it became available,
and especially since the growth of the internet. She has written extensively on the subject in the Law Librarian
and other publications. She was on the
editorial committee of Moys Classification for Legal Materials and contributed to the 3rd
edition, published in 1992. Her website  
LAWLINKS 
is internationally recognised and has received several awards, 
  including the Wallace Breem Memorial Award from 
BIALL 
(British &
Irish Association of Law Librarians) in 2000. At the same time she published a book based on LAWLINKS (Carter, S.
Lawlinks. Cavendish, 2000). In an earlier librarianship role she wrote
on the subject of women’s studies.
Editor's note 
  (SP):  This article is 
  another update to A Guide to the UK Legal System, 
  (published August 1, 2001).  There are numerous additions, changes for 
  some Web site addresses, as well as some deletions.  The
  additions and changes are indicated by       
   (yellow background color) for easy identification.
Table of Contents
The UK Legal System
Background and Constitution
The Court System
Primary Sources of Law:
  Introduction
Legislation
Primary
                  Legislation: Acts of Parliament
Subordinate
                  Legislation: Statutory Instruments
Electronic Sources for Legislation
Case Law
Law Reports
Citations
Electronic Sources for Case Law
Public Domain Services
Subscription Services
Indexes and Digests
Legislation and Case Law Indexes
Periodical Indexes
Parliamentary Information
Debates
Bills
United Kingdom Government
Official Publications
Law Reform
Scotland
Background
Legislation
Case Law
Wales
Northern Ireland
Background
Legislation
Case Law
The Legal Profession
Legal Education
Legal Publishers
Legal News & Current Awareness
Standard Texts
The UK Legal System
Background
and Constitution
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland consists of four countries forming three distinct jurisdictions each
having its own court system and legal profession: England & Wales,
Scotland, and Northern Ireland. The
United Kingdom was established in 1801 with the union of Great Britain and Ireland, but only achieved its present form
in 1922 with the partition of Ireland and the establishment of the independent
Irish Free State (later the Republic of Ireland).
The UK joined the European Economic Community (now the
European Union) in 1973, since when it has been a requirement to incorporate
European legislation into UK law, and to recognise the jurisdiction of the
European Court of Justice in matters of EU law.
There have been significant constitutional reforms
since the Labour Government came into power in 1997, which make any description
of the UK legal system before then out of date. The Labour Government immediately
instituted a process of devolution, i.e., devolving certain areas of government
to the component countries of the UK: a separate 
  Scottish Parliament and a
  Welsh Assembly 
  were established following referendums in the countries concerned. Ireland 
  already had its Assembly, although this was not in operation (see below under 
  Northern Ireland). In the context of these new
legislatures the English Parliament is often referred to as ‘Westminster’. These devolved governments are dealt with in
separate sections.
The UK is a signatory of the 
European Convention of
Human Rights, and this has recently been incorporated into UK law with the
passing of the  Human Rights Act
  1998. This allows for the provisions of the Convention to be applied
directly by the UK courts.
There is no written constitution. The Queen is the Head of State, although in
practice the supreme authority of the Crown is carried by the government of the
day. The legislature is a bicameral Parliament. The House of Commons consists of 659 Members of Parliament (MPs),
elected by simple majority vote in a general election every five years,
although the Government has the right to call an election at any time before
then, and in practice usually brings the date forward to secure electoral
advantage. The House of Lords until
recently consisted of life peers, awarded peerages for public service, and a
large number of hereditary peers whose membership of the House of Lords
depended on their aristocratic birth. The Labour Government began the 
  long-overdue process of reform of the House of Lords by abolishing the voting 
  rights of all the hereditary peers apart from ninety-two who remain until the 
  House is fully reformed. Proposals put forward by the
  Royal Commission on the Reform of the 
  House of Lords were published in 2000 as a command paper:
  A 
  House for the Future (Cm 4534). This proposed a predominantly appointed 
  second chamber with a minority of elected members representing regions of the 
  UK. Links to documents on Lords Reform are on the
  Lord 
  Chancellor's Department Lords Reform page and on the
  Cabinet Office 
  Constitution Secretariat page.
The Government is made up of the Prime Minister,
formally appointed by the Queen, and who is normally the leader of the majority
party in the House of Commons, and ministers with departmental
responsibilities, of whom the Ministers of State form the Cabinet. The ministerial posts are the choice of the
Prime Minister.
The constitutional law of the UK is regarded as consisting
of statute law on the one hand and case law on the other, whereby judicial
precedent is applied in the courts by judges interpreting statute law. A third
element consists of constitutional conventions which do not have statutory
authority but nevertheless have binding force. Much of the relationship between
the Sovereign and Parliament is conventional rather than statutory.
<Table
of Contents>
The
  Court System
The lowest criminal courts are the Magistrates Courts, which deal with 
  minor offences. More serious cases are heard in the Crown Court, in
front of judge and jury. The Crown Court also hears cases appealed from the
Magistrates Courts on factual points. Cases are appealed on points of law to
the High Court (Queen’s Bench Division). Appeals against conviction and
sentence are to the Court of Appeal (Criminal Division).
Civil cases at first instance are heard in the County
Courts (for minor claims) or the High Court, which is divided into three
divisions: Queen’s Bench, Family and Chancery. Cases may be appealed to the Court of Appeal (Civil Division). Cases may be appealed from the County Court
to the High Court.
The House of Lords is the supreme court of appeal. Its judicial functions are quite separate
from its legislative work, and cases are heard by up to 13 senior judges known
as Law Lords. The judicial work of the
House of Lords is described on its  web pages.
The  Court Service web pages provide information on the other courts.
In addition to the courts there are specialised
Tribunals, which hear appeals on decisions made by various public bodies and
Government departments, in areas such as employment, immigration, social
security, tax and land. The Court
Service also contains information on these.
There has been extensive reform of civil procedure in
recent years. Following on the
publication of a major report on Access to Justice by Lord Woolf in 1996, a
completely new set of civil procedure rules were put into operation in 1999, as
well as new legislation for modernising the courts and legal services. 
  A Review of the Criminal Courts by Sir 
  Robin Auld was published in 2001. The various reports, the new Civil Procedure
Rules and much else can be found on the 
Lord Chancellor’s Department website.
<Table
of Contents>
Primary
  Sources of Law: Introduction
Web-based
sources for primary law have been made available officially since 1996. However, while they offer valuable texts
they are limited by the fact that they are not annotated, amended or
hyperlinked. Consequently it is
necessary to use commercial subscription services in order to get reliable up
to date information. Early in 2000, a
new initiative to put up hyperlinked texts of UK legislation and case law was
launched. Known as  BAILII (British and Irish Legal Information
Institute), it is based on the Australian model  AustLII. It uses its
own system of citation for cases and there are links other cases and
legislation where they are loaded on the database. The site is under development, and coverage is patchy at present.
For regularly-updated details of all resources see
  LAWLINKS.
The major encyclopaedia is Halsbury’s Laws of
England. 4th ed. Butterworths, 1973. It is the starting point for any research on
English law. It is also available as an 
  online subscription service known as  Halsbury’s Laws Direct.
Legislation
Legislation since devolution forms several separate
entities:
United Kingdom legislation: applying to the whole UK
Scottish legislation
Welsh legislation (Statutory Instruments only)
Northern Irish legislation
For details of these categories see under the devolved
governments below. Legislation
published on the web can be accessed from the official
Legislation website, also from
 BAILII.
<Table
of Contents>
Primary
  Legislation: Acts of Parliament
There are two main forms of primary legislation: Public
General Acts and Local and Personal
Acts. The latter are of specific
and limited application only. For the
purposes of this survey I will concentrate on PGAs. Depending on the legislative programme of the government, some
40-70 Acts are passed each year. The
sequential numbering of each Act within each year is known as a chapter number.
Public General Acts appear in individual paper-covered
volumes, cumulating into three or four annual volumes. From 1996 they have been published on the
  
Acts of the UK Parliament 
  website, and their coverage now 
  extends back to 1988. Many recent Acts have useful
  
  Explanatory Notes. They are
also on  BAILII, and the texts here contain hyperlinks to
other legislation on the BAILII database.
Unamended legislation is of limited value, however,
and it is always necessary to consult up to date sources. The principal printed source for statutes is
Halsbury’s Statutes, published by 
  Butterworths. This is arranged
by subject in 50 volumes and contains the amended text of all Acts in force
with extensive annotations. It is
updated by means of an annual Cumulative Supplement and a loose leaf Noter-up,
both arranged like miniature versions of the work itself. There is no electronic version of Halsbury’s
Statutes.
Current Law Statutes, published by 
  Sweet & Maxwell, are a chronologically-arranged
printed source. The texts of Acts are
therefore unamended, but are annotated. This source is of particular value for finding the background to
legislation, and tracing the documents (reports, white papers, etc.) and
debates which preceded the Act. Some of 
  this material has been incorporated into Westlaw (see below under 
  Electronic Sources).
<Table
of Contents>
Subordinate Legislation: Statutory Instruments
Statutory Instruments, or SIs, are regulations made under the authority of 
  an Act of Parliament. There are up to 3500 of these published annually, and 
  they are numbered sequentially within each year. They are important documents, 
  which often provide the detail required for the application of the Statute, 
  and some contain provisions for the commencement of an Act (when it comes into 
  force). 
Statutory Instruments are 
  available on the Web from 1987 and also available in the
electronic services listed below.
<Table
of Contents>
Electronic
  Sources for Legislation
As well as the public domain sources for legislation
on the Web listed above there are several subscription services.
Butterworths Legislation Direct
    contains all UK legislation in force. including
Statutes and SIs, and Scottish Statutes and SIs. It is updated by Stop Press, 
  and includes Is It In Force? and Progress of Legislation databases.
  Butterworths also includes digests of 
  Acts with details of their status on their free
  Law Direct service.
Justis UK Statutes contains the
full text of Statutes as enacted with cross referencing between amended and
amending legislation, and is the only 
service to include all repealed statutes as well as those in force. Justis UK
Statutory Instruments contain SIs from 1987,
with a separate database containing an 
archive of pre-1987 SIs.
Westlaw UK (www.westlaw.co.uk or www.westlaw.com)
  contains Statutes
and SIs in force, though at the time of writing not fully loaded, with
commentary (Analysis). It also has historical
versions of statutes.
Lexis (lexis-nexis.co.uk 
or lexis-nexis.com) also contains the
texts of Statutes and SIs in force.
Lawtel contains links to the official 
version of Acts and statutory status tables giving details of amending and 
amended legislation with links.
<Table
of Contents>
Case
  Law
Law
  Reports
Cases in the courts are reported in numerous series of
law reports. Until 1865 case reporting was done by private court reporters, and
the resultant publications are known as the nominate reports, because they are
usually known by the name of the reporter. These have been gathered together in
a collection called the English Reports which makes them relatively easy to
find. The English Reports have also been published on CD-ROM
and the web by
Jutastat, but this is not
widely held. For a list of citations to 
the nominate reports contained in the English Reports see
Citations for the English Reports. In 1865 the reporting of
cases was systematised by the 
Incorporated Council of Law Reporting, which
started publishing series of reports organised according to the court,
collectively known as The Law Reports.
The main general series currently published are:
The Law Reports, 1865- which is in four separate
series at the present day. For a list
of the citations to all the series within The Law Reports see
  the
  guide Citations for The Law Reports.
Weekly Law Reports, 1954- 
All England Law Reports, 1936- 
In addition there is a large number of specialised
reports, covering different areas of law. There is a recognised hierarchy of
reports, the most authoritative being The Law Reports, but of course many cases
are only reported in specialised series.
Citations
Lists of citations can be found in many of the
published works, but the most comprehensive guide is Raistrick, Donald: Index to legal citations and abbreviations,
2nd ed, Bowker Saur 1993, which has world wide coverage.
  Most of the commoner citations can be 
  found online in
  Legal 
  Abbreviations.
<Table
of Contents>
Electronic
  Sources for Case Law
A distinction here has to be made between law reports
and transcripts. In recent years there has been a growth in the provision of
electronic transcripts of cases on the web, many available free. Many, though not all of these will
subsequently be reported.
Public Domain Services
BAILII contains an easily 
    searchable and growing number of case law databases,
    gathering together all the public 
    domain sources. 
House of Lords judgments
  are
available on the web from 1996, and within 2 hours of the decision.
The Court Service contains a database of selected recent cases from the Court of Appeal and the
High Court.
Other sources can be checked on  LAWLINKS.
Subscription Services
Justis Law Reports, 1865- . The electronic version of The Law Reports,
on CD-ROM and online. Justis also
produce electronic versions of several other major series of reports.
Westlaw contains The Law Reports back to
  1865 and several other series as well (www.westlaw.co.uk or
    www.westlaw.com.)
Lexis provides The Law Reports 
  from 1865, other reports 1945 and unreported cases (transcripts) from 1980 (www.lexis-nexis.co.uk or
    www.lexis-nexis.com.)
Butterworths All England 
  Direct contains the All England Law Reports 1936- and the All England Reporter 
  – a digest of recent cases with transcripts, not all of which will eventually 
  be reported in All ER. Butterworths 
  has also recently launched The Law Reports as a separate service.
Lawtel contains a wide-ranging database 
  of full text case transcripts from about 1980.
There
are numerous other services offering access to more specialised series of reports.
<Table
of Contents>
Indexes and Digests
Legislation and Case Law Indexes
The two major printed indexes to UK law are the
Digest, published by Butterworths, and Current Law, 
  published by Sweet & Maxwell. Both contain digests of
cases with references to cited cases and legislation, and both contain
invaluable indexes to cases which will tell you where they have been reported.
Current Law is available electronically as Current
Legal Information, on CD-ROM and 
online. This is in fact a family of databases. The Current Law Case Citator enables you to check the judicial history
of a case and to see where it has been reported, and to trace case commentaries
in journals, and links to the digest of the case in Current Law Cases. The Current Law Legislation Citator enables
you to find cases interpreting a piece of legislation, and commentary in
articles. The Current Law databases are 
  all now available on Westlaw, though in a somewhat altered form, and it is 
  expected that the CLI service will eventually cease to be available 
  separately.
Butterworths CaseSearch is a new 
  service which is in effect the electronic version of the Digest, allowing you 
  to search by case citation, case name and subject area.  It includes 
  annotations to cases from 1502.
Periodical
  Indexes
The Legal Journals Index is the major British source
for tracing articles in legal journals, and covers 
  over 400 UK and European
English-language publications. It
started publication in 1986 and is no longer available in hard copy. 
  It is available on Westlaw and is also 
  part of the Current Legal Information service, on CD-ROM and online. It is 
  expected that CLI will cease as a separate service in due course.
Index to Legal Periodicals has good coverage of the
more academic-orientated UK legal journals.
  Lawtel also includes an articles index for about 60 law journals from 
  around 1998.
Butterworths Law Direct is 
  a freely-available service which includes an articles index for about 80 law 
  journals from 1995.
<Table
of Contents>
Parliamentary
  Information
The 
Parliament website gives
access to information on the business of the two Houses of Parliament,
including a good deal of general material on the parliamentary system. You can
also find details of the composition of Parliament and of the government of the
day and links to official publications on the web, including white papers and
green papers, reports of committees, House business and the Weekly Information
Bulletin.
Debates
The debates of Parliament are published in Hansard.
There are separate series for the House of Commons and the House of Lords and
for Standing Committee debates. Hansard is also available on the web on the Parliament website, and
there are archives of the Commons Hansard back to 1988/89 The House of Lords Hansard database is from
1996.
Bills
Bills are published on the web with amendments where
available, and explanatory notes for major 
  public Bills introduced into Parliament by
a government minister. The progress of
legislation can be checked in the House of Commons Weekly Information Bulletin
on the Parliament website.
<Table
of Contents>
United Kingdom Government
The government’s website
  UK online includes an A-Z index to all government departments,
agencies and other public or quasi-governmental bodies and is the gateway to a 
  rich resource of material in the departmental websites.
Official Publications
Until 1996 all government publishing was in the hands
of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office when it was privatised. The trading business was sold off to a
company now known as The Stationery Office.  HMSO
  remains as a body handling the statutory
functions of official publishing, with responsibility for publishing
legislation and administering crown and parliamentary copyright.
The
  Stationery Office is now mainly useful for its online
catalogue and bookstore.
The major online subscription services for official
publications is  UKOP, which has authoritative
bibliographic information.  BOPCAS 
  (British Official Publications Current Awareness Service) is a subscription 
  service with a certain amount of free information on recent publications. 
  There is a public domain site for
  Official Documents.
BOPCRIS is a valuable free index to 
  official publications from 1688 to 1995.
<Table
of Contents>
Law Reform
The Law Commission is an
independent body set up in 1965 to keep the law of England and Wales under
review and recommend reform where needed. Its projects are 
  described on the website, and you can 
  access the valuable Law Commission Reports and Consultation Papers in its 
  online Library. The
valuable Law Commission Reports and Consultation Papers are 
  in its online
  Library.
The
  Scottish Law Commission is the 
  equivalent body for Scotland.
Recent
constitutional reforms are dealt with under Background and Constitution
above. Reform of civil and criminal procedure is under The Court System
above.
<Table
of Contents>
Scotland
Background
The Scottish legal system is in part separate from
that of England and Wales. It has its
own court system and legal profession. Scotland lost its independent legislative powers under the Treaty of
Union 1707, when Scotland became part of Great Britain. In 1997 the new Labour Government carried
through proposals for devolution, and the Scottish Parliament was set up
following a referendum in the Scotland Act 1998. Elections were held in 1999. The
  
Scottish Parliament can
legislate in areas of domestic policy, but excluding foreign affairs, defence
and national security, economic and monetary policy, employment and social
security. The  Scottish Executive is the official
government website.
The court system is separate and different from
  that of England and Wales, and uses different terminology. The principal law officer is the Lord Advocate. The Court of Session is the supreme civil
court, subject to appeal to the House of Lords, with most civil jurisdiction
being dealt with in the sheriff courts. The supreme criminal court is the High Court of Justiciary, 
  the lower courts are the sheriff courts and district courts. The
  Scottish Courts website
  contains information on the court 
  system and links to judgments.
The Laws of Scotland: Stair Memorial Encyclopaedia,
Butterworths 1987- is the definitive Scottish legal encyclopaedia. 
It is available as a web-based 
subscription service called Scotland Direct from
Butterworths.
Legislation
Until the
establishment of the Scottish Parliament, Acts of Parliament with specific
application to Scotland were made in the Westminster Parliament. The first Act of the Scottish Parliament was
passed in 1999, and they are on the  Scottish Legislation website. This site also includes links to Scottish Statutory Instruments and
other material.
Case Law
Session Cases 1822- is the main series, reporting not
only cases heard in the Court of Session, but also in the House of Lords and
the High Court of Justiciary.
Scots Law Times 1893- is a weekly publication
containing law reports. There are also
other series, and some significant Scottish judgments may be reported in the
Weekly Law Reports and the All England Law Reports.
BAILII publishes all the
Scottish cases in the public domain with links to legislation and cases cited.
The  Scottish Courts Web Site contains the same cases, though without links.
<Table
of Contents>
Wales
Wales has been united with England administratively,
politically and legally since the 16th century. Under arrangements for devolution a new
Welsh Assembly was established in 1999 following a referendum (The Government of Wales Act 1998), giving powers
legislate in domestic areas but excluding foreign affairs and defence,
taxation, overall economic policy, social security and broadcasting. However, the
   National Assembly for Wales is restricted to passing subordinate legislation only.
Welsh Statutory Instruments can be found on the  Wales
Legislation site and on  BAILII.
There
is no separate Welsh case law.
<Table
of Contents>
Northern Ireland
Background
Northern Ireland was created in 1922
  from the six protestant-dominated 
  counties of the Irish province of Ulster (the remaining three Ulster counties 
  being catholic).  After centuries of conflict with Britain, in which the 'Irish question' was a major political issue, demands for home
  rule for Ireland were met by establishing two separate parliaments subordinate to Westminster (the Government of Ireland Act 1920: text on BAILII). This proved unacceptable to the South and after negotiations leading to the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921 (on the National Archives of Ireland
  website), the 26 counties of Southern Ireland left to form the Irish Free State, now known as the Republic of Ireland.  The six predominantly Protestant  counties of the province of Ulster retained their own parliament under Westminster jurisdiction.
The present civil unrest between the Unionists (protestant) and the nationalists (catholic) began in the 1960s, and the British government assumed
  direct responsibility for law and order in 1972.  The Northern Ireland Parliament was abolished, and replaced by a unicameral Northern Ireland
  Assembly, with a Secretary of State appointed by the British Government and serving as a member of the British Cabinet. The constitutional authority
  of this lies in the Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973.  This only lasted until 1974, when the British government took over direct rule of Northern
  Ireland (the Northern Ireland Act 1974).  In 1998, following extensive negotiations, the
  
Good Friday Agreement was reached and endorsed by
  referendum.  A new Northern Ireland Assembly was created and legislation to implement the settlement (The 
  
Northern Ireland Act 1998: text 
  also on
  
BAILII) was passed.
The
  Northern Ireland Office 
  includes background and current information.
A valuable website for information and documents on the Northern Ireland conflict is
  CAIN (Conflict Archive on the Internet).
Legislation
Legislation applying to the whole of the UK can be assumed to apply in its entirety to Northern Ireland unless this is made explicit within the Act.  Some Acts apply primarily or exclusively to Northern Ireland.  Northern Ireland Orders in Council are Statutory Instruments applying exclusively to Northern Ireland under the Northern Ireland Act 1974, and which equate to primary legislation.  These are collected together in annual volumes: Northern Ireland Statutes, 1921-.  Statutory Rules of Northern Ireland are Statutory Instruments relating exclusively to Northern Ireland and are on the web from 1998. Statutes Revised Northern Ireland,
2nd. ed. (HMSO,1982) includes Acts passed before Northern Ireland came into existence.  These are also on
BAILII.
As well as BAILII  the official  Northern Ireland Legislation
website provides access to full text Northern Irish legislation.
Case Law
Northern Ireland has its own court structure, replicating that of England and Wales. The
Northern Ireland Court Service describes this.  The decisions from 1998 are available on BAILII.
<Table
of Contents>
The
  Legal Profession
The legal profession in England and Wales has two
branches, solicitors and barristers. There are some 67,000 solicitors in England
and Wales, and only 8,500 practising barristers. Barristers represent clients in
the courts on the instruction of solicitors, although their exclusive rights of
audience in the higher courts have been eroded in recent years. Barristers are
organised into sets of Chambers, but are essentially self-employed. Their
professional organisation is called the Bar. Solicitors are organised into firms
of varying size from sole practitioner to large 
multinational practices. They
provide all legal services and instruct barristers.
The 
Bar Council is the governing body for 
Barristers.
The 
Law Society is the governing body for 
solicitors. There is a separate 
Law Society of Scotland.
A valuable portal for the legal profession is
  
  Legal Resources in the UK and Ireland.
<Table
of Contents>
Legal Education
Law degrees in the UK are at undergraduate level.  Professional training is provided at postgraduate level by means of the Bar Vocational Course (BVC) for would-be barristers, and the Legal Practice Course (LPC) for solicitors.  Students with a first degree in a subject other than Law must follow a one-year qualifying course (known as the CPE, or Common Professional Examination) in the core subjects of law before being eligible for the qualifying courses.  In order to enter the profession student solicitors must find a post as a trainee solicitor, and barristers must obtain a pupillage in a set of barristers’ chambers.  Entry to both branches of the profession is extremely competitive.
<Table
of Contents>
Legal Publishers
The major legal publishers are 
Butterworths and
Sweet & Maxwell, who between them publish most of the principal reference works of law.  The Incorporated Council of Law Reporting publish The Law Reports  (see 
above).  However there are a large number of important publishers with large legal publishing programmes.  A list of these can be found on LAWLINKS.
<Table
of Contents>
Legal News & Current Awareness
There are many websites which provide free current awareness services.  Many of the major publishers do so, including
Butterworths, which offers 
Law Direct. 
There is also a growing number of legal 
portals, of which some examples can be found on
LAWLINKS.  See
Legal Resources in the UK and Ireland for lists of these and of law firms with current awareness and news on their websites, or offering free email newsletters.
Several legal newspapers also have websites.  The Lawyer,
Legal 
Week and the Law Society Gazette
are all useful current awareness sources.
<Table
of Contents>
Standard Texts
This is inevitably a rather ad hoc list.  I have omitted loose leaf publications, though in recent years many standard texts have changed to this form of publication.
A good place to search for UK law books is
Hammicks Legal Bookshops Online.
Banking Law
Cranston, R. Principles of banking law.
  Oxford University Press, 2002.
Hapgood, M.  Paget’s law of banking. 
12th ed. Butterworths 2002.
Commercial Law
Borrie, J. & Brown, I.   Commercial law.  7th ed.  Butterworths, 2000.
Goode, R.  Commercial law.  2nd ed. Butterworths,
1998.
Company Law
Farrar, J.H.  Farrar’s company law.  4th ed. Butterworths, 1998.
Morse, G.  Charlesworth & Morse: Company law.  16th ed.  Sweet & Maxwell, 1999.
Competition Law
Furse, M. Competition law of the 
  UK and EC. 3rd. ed. Oxford University Press, 2002.
Whish, R.  Competition law.  4th. ed. Butterworths,
2001.
Constitutional and Administrative Law
Bradley, A.W. & Ewing, K. Constitutional and administrative law.
  13th ed. Longman, 2002.
De Smith, S. & Brazier, R.  Constitutional and administrative law.  
8th ed.  Penguin Books, 1998.
McEldowney, J.F. Public law. 3rd ed. 
Sweet & Maxwell, 2002.
Consumer Law
Harvey, B.W. & Parry, D.  Law of consumer protection and fair trading.   
6th. ed. Butterworths,
2000.
Lowe, R. & Woodroffe, G. Consumer 
law and practice. 5th ed. Sweet & Maxwell, 1999.
Contract Law
Beale, H. (ed.)   Chitty on contracts.  2 vols.  28th ed.  Sweet & Maxwell, 1999,
  plus supplements.
Furmston, M.P.   Cheshire, Fifoot and Furmston’s law of contract.  
14th ed. Butterworths,
2001.
Goff, R.  Law of restitution.  5th ed. Sweet & Maxwell, 1998.
Criminal Law
Ashworth, A.  Principles of criminal law.  3rd ed.  Clarendon Press, 1999.
Smith, J.C. & Hogan, B.  Criminal law.  
2002 ed., Butterworths,
2002.
Employment Law
Pitt, G.  Employment law.  4th ed.  Sweet & Maxwell, 2000.
Selwyn, N.   Selwyn’s law of employment.  
11th ed. Butterworths,
2000.
Smith, I. & Thomas, G.  Industrial law.  7th ed.  Butterworths, 2000.
English Legal System
Elliott, C. & Quinn, F. English 
  legal system. Longman, 2002.Ward, R.  Walker and Walker’s English legal system.  8th ed.  Butterworths, 1998.
Slapper, G. et al, The English legal 
  system. 5th ed. Cavendish, 2001.
Environmental Law
Wolf, S. & White, A.H. 
  Principles of environment law. Cavendish, 2001.Hawke, N.  Environmental health law.  Sweet & Maxwell, 1995.
Hughes, D.  Environmental law.  4th ed. Butterworths,
2000.
Woolley, D. et al Environmental law. 
Oxford University Press, 2000.
Equity and Trusts
Burn, E.H.  Maudsley and Burn’s Trusts and trustees.  5th ed.  Butterworths, 1996.
Martin, J.  Hanbury and Martin: Modern equity.  
16th ed. Sweet & Maxwell,
2001.
Pettit, P. Equity and the law of 
trusts. 9th ed. Butterworths, 2001.
Evidence
Keane, C. Modern law of 
  evidence. 5th ed. Butterworths, 2000. Murphy, P.  Murphy on evidence.  
  7th ed. Blackstone, 2000.
Tapper, C.  Cross and Tapper on evidence.  9th ed.  Butterworths, 1999.
Family Law
Cretney, S.  Principles of
  Family law.  7th ed. 
  Sweet & Maxwell, 2002.
Lowe, N.  Bromley’s Family law.  9th ed.  Butterworths, 1998.
Shannon, G. Children and the law. 
Sweet & Maxwell, 2001.
Human Rights
Clayton, R. et al  The law of human rights.  Oxford University Press, 2000.
Feldman, D. Civil liberties and human 
  rights in England and Wales. Oxford University Press, 2002.
Lester, A. and Pannick, D.  Human rights law and practice. Butterworths, 1999.
Immigration Law
Jackson, D. Immigration - law and practice. Sweet & Maxwell,
  2001.
Macdonald, I.A.  Macdonald’s Immigration law and practice.  
5th ed. Butterworths,
2001.
Reed, C. & Angel, J. Computer law. 
4th ed. Blackstone, 2000.
Information Technology Law
Lloyd, I.  Information technology law.  
  3rd ed. Butterworths,
  2002.
Macdonald, E.  Information technology law.   2nd  ed.   Cavendish, 2000.
Insolvency Law
Fletcher, I.  Law of insolvency.  
  3rd ed.  Sweet & Maxwell, 2000.
Pennington,  R. Pennington’s 
Corporate Insolvency law.  2nd  ed. Butterworths, 1997.
Insurance Law
Birds, J & Hird, N. Birds' 
  Modern insurance law. 5th ed. Sweet & Macwell, 2001.Ivamy, E.R.H.  General principles of insurance law.  6th ed.  Butterworths, 1993.
McGee, A. The modern law of insurance. 
  Butterworths, 2001.
Legh-Jones, N. et al   Macgillivray on insurance law.  9th ed.  Sweet & Maxwell, 1997.
Intellectual Property
Bainbridge, D.I. Intellectual 
  property. 5th ed. Longman, 2002.Cornish, W.R.  Intellectual property.  4th ed.  Sweet & Maxwell, 1999.
Garnett, K. et al  Copinger and Skone James on copyright.  14th ed.  Sweet & Maxwell, 1998.
Legal dictionaries
Stroud’s judicial dictionary of words and phrases. 
  6th ed. Sweet & Maxwell, 2001.
Words and phrases legally defined.  3rd ed. Butterworths, 1998-.
Legal Skills
Clinch, P. Using a law library.  
  2nd ed. Blackstone, 2001.
Holborn, G.  Butterworths legal research guide.  
2nd ed. Butterworths,
2001.
Medical Law
Jones, M. Medical negligence. 
  3rd ed. Sweet & Maxwell, 2002.
Kennedy, I. & Grubb, A.  Medical law.  
3rd ed. Butterworths,
2000.
McLean, S. Medical law and ethics. 
Dartmouth, 2002.
Planning Law
Duxbury, R.M.C.  Telling and Duxbury: Planning 
  law and procedure.  12th ed. Butterworths,
  2002.
Grant, M. Planning law. 2nd ed. 
Sweet & Maxwell, 2003.
Heap, D.  An outline of planning law.  11th ed. Sweet & Maxwell, 1996.
Property Law
Brennan, G. Landlord and tenant 
  law. 2nd ed. Oxford University Press, 2002.Burn, E.H.   Cheshire and Burn: Modern law of real property.  16th ed.  Butterworths, 2000.
Furber, J.   Hill & Redman’s Guide to landlord and tenant law.  Butterworths, 1999.
Gray, K.   Elements of land law.  3rd ed.  Butterworths,
2000.
Scots Law
Walker, D.M. The Scottish legal 
  system. 8th ed. W. Green, 2001.Marshall, E.A.  General principles of Scots law.  W. Green, 1999.
White, R.M. & Willock, I.D.   The Scottish legal system.  2nd.ed.  Butterworths, 1999.
Tax Law
Morse, G.   Davies: Principles of tax law.  
  4th ed. Sweet & Maxwell,
  2000.
Whitehouse, C.   et al Revenue law – principles and practice.  
20th ed., Butterworths, 2002.
Torts
Cane, P.   Atiyah’s Accidents, compensation and the law.  6th ed.  Butterworths, 1999.
Jones, M. Textbook on torts. 8th 
ed., 2002.
Murphy, J. Street on tort. 11th ed. 
Butterworths, 2003.
<Table
of Contents>
 
 
Founder, Editor, Publisher:
Sabrina I. Pacifici
Follow LLRX and beSpacific on Twitter
Legal Research
Federal Legislative Research
Foreign & Comparative Law
Legislative Research Guide
United States Law
Librarian Resources
Competitive Intelligence
Government Resources
Information Management
Law Library Management
Presentation Skills
9/11 News & Legal Resources
Legal Technology
E-Discovery
Gadgets & Gizmos
Intranets
Knowledge Management
Websites, Blogs, & Wikis
From beSpacific.com 
Daily Law & Technology News
beSpacific
Investigation of a Multi-state Outbreak of Salmonella Infantis Linked to Dry Dog Food
TRAC: Recent Rise in Federal Suits to Recover Student Loans
FEMA - The National Preparedness Report
Ethical and Scientific Issues in Studying the Safety of Approved Drugs
New GAO Reports - Defense Inventory,  Defense Logistics, Federal Land Management
FAS: Counterintelligence Surveillance Under FISA Grew in 2011
Documents Captured During Bin Laden Raid Released by U.S. Military
Human Rights Watch Report on Syria - War Crimes in Northern Idlib during Peace Plan Negotiations
New GAO Reports: Defense Infrastructure, Climate Change, Tactical Aircraftwepgmail
Metropolitan Area Employment and Unemployment Summary
more
Copyright© 1996-2012 LLRX®
Home
About LLRX
Advertise
Privacy Policy
Linking
Contact Us
Find a Lawyer
 Justia Legal WebSite Design 
   