Imperfective aspect - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1English
2Indo-Aryan languages
3Slavic languages
4Other languages
5Perfective
Toggle Perfective subsection
5.1Combination
6References
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Imperfective aspect
6 languages
DeutschEestiNederlandsNorsk nynorskУкраїнська中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Grammatical aspect of continuity or repetitionThis article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Imperfective aspect" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The imperfective (abbreviated IPFV or more ambiguously IMPV) is a grammatical aspect used to describe ongoing, habitual, repeated, or similar semantic roles, whether that situation occurs in the past, present, or future. Although many languages have a general imperfective, others have distinct aspects for one or more of its various roles, such as progressive, habitual, and iterative aspects. The imperfective contrasts with the perfective aspect, which is used to describe actions viewed as a complete whole.
English[edit]
English is an example of a language with no general imperfective. The English progressive is used to describe ongoing events, but can still be used in past tense, such as "The rain was beating down". Habitual situations do not have their own verb form (in most dialects), but the construction "used to" conveys past habitual action, as in I used to ski. Unlike in languages with a general imperfective, in English the simple past tense can be used for situations presented as ongoing, such as The rain beat down continuously through the night.
A contrast between the progressive and imperfective is seen with stative verbs. In English, stative verbs, such as know, do not use the progressive (*I was knowing French is ungrammatical), while in languages with an imperfective (for instance, French), stative verbs frequently appear in the imperfective.
African American Vernacular English does have an imperfective aspect for present tense formed by adding "be" before the present continuous of a verb, such as "he be working", or "they be eating".
Indo-Aryan languages[edit]
Verbs in Hindi-Urdu (Hindustani) have their grammatical aspects overtly marked. Periphrastic Hindi-Urdu verb forms (participle verb forms) consist of two elements, the first of these two elements is the aspect marker and the second element (the copula) is the common tense-mood marker.[1] There are two independent imperfective aspects in Hindi-Urdu: Habitual Aspect, and Progressive Aspect. These two aspects are formed from their participle forms being used with the copula verb of Hindi which is होना honā (to be). However, the aspectual participles can also have the verbs रहना rêhnā (to stay/remain), आना ānā (to come) & जाना jānā (to go) as their copula.[2][3] The table below shows three verbs होना honā (to be), करना karnā (to do), and मरना marnā (to die) in their aspectual infintive forms using different copulas.[4]
Simple
Aspect
Imperfective Aspect
Habitual
Aspect
Progressive
Aspect
होना
honā
to be
होता होना
hotā honā
to happen
होता रहना
hotā rêhnā
to keep happening
होता जाना
hotā jānā
to keep on happening
होता आना
hotā ānā
to have been happening
हो रहा होना
ho rahā honā
to be happening
हो रहा रहना
ho rahā rêhnā
to stay happening
करना
karnā
to do
करता होना
kartā honā
to be doing
करता रहना
kartā rêhnā
to stay doing
करता जाना
kartā jānā
to keep doing
करता आना
kartā ānā
to have been doing
कर रहा होना
kar rahā honā
to be doing
कर रहा रहना
kar rahā rêhnā
to stay doing
मरना
marnā
to die
मरता होना
martā honā
to be dying
मरता रहना
martā rêhnā
to stay dying
मरता जाना
martā jānā
to keep dying
मरता आना
martā ānā
to have been dying
मरा रहा होना
mar rahā honā
to be dying
मर रहा रहना
mar rahā rêhnā
to stay dying
Note: some translations are approximate, and the nuance cannot be expressed exactly in English. Some aspectual forms also have the same translations in English but are not interchangeable in Hindi-Urdu.
Now, these copula verbs (besides होना honā) can themselves be converted into their participle forms and put into one of the three different aspects of Hindi-Urdu, which are habitual, progressive, and perfective aspects, hence generating sub-aspectual infinitive forms.[5] This way a verb form combining two grammatical aspects is constructed. The table below shows the combined aspectual forms:
Imperfective Aspect
Habitual
Aspect
Progressive
Aspect
रहना  (rêhnā)
जाना (jānā)
आना  (ānā)
रहना (rêhnā)
Habitual
subaspect
Perfective
subaspect
Progressive
subaspect
Habitual
subaspect
Progressive
subaspect
Progressive
subaspect
Habitual
subaspect
होता रहता होना
hotā rêhtā honā
to regularly keep happening
होता रहा होना
hotā rahā honā
to have been regularly happening
होता रह रहा होना
hotā rêh rahā honā
to stay being happening
होता जाता होना
hotā jātā honā
to continuously keep happening
होता जा रहा होना
hotā jā rahā honā
to continuously keep happening
होता आ रहा होना
hotā ā rahā honā
to have been continuously kept happening
हो रहा रहता होना
ho rahā rêhtā honā
to continuously stay happening progressively
करता रहता होना
kartā rêhtā honā
to regularly keep doing
करता रहा होना
kartā rahā honā
to have been regularly doing
करता रह रहा होना
kartā rêh rahā honā
to stay being doing
करता जाता होना
kartā jātā honā
to continuously keep doing
करता जा रहा होना
kartā jā rahā honā
to continuously keep doing
करता आ रहा होना
kartā ā rahā honā
to have been continuously kept doing
कर रहा रहता होना
kar rahā rêhtā honā
to continuously stay doing progressively
मरता रहता होना
martā rêhtā honā
to regularly keep dying
मरता रहा होना
martā rahā honā
to have been regularly dying
मरता रह रहा होना
martā rêh rahā honā
to stay being dying
मरता जाता होना
martā jātā honā
to continuously keep dying
मरता जा रहा होना
martā jā rahā honā
to continuously keep dying
मरता आ रहा होना
martā ā rahā honā
to have been continuously kept dying
मर रहा रहता होना
mar rahā rêhtā honā
to continuously stay dying progressively
Note: The perfective subaspect of the habitual main aspect (habitual) also is imperfective (habitual). Also, these sub-aspects are even more nuanced that it is not possible to translate each of them into English in a unique way. Some translations don't even make sense in English.
Slavic languages[edit]
Verbs in Slavic languages have a perfective and/or an imperfective form. Generally, any of various prefixes can turn imperfectives into perfectives;[6]
suffixes can turn perfectives into imperfectives.[7]
The non-past imperfective form is used for the present, while its perfective counterpart is used for the future. There is also a periphrastic imperfective future construction.[8]: p.84 
Other languages[edit]
The imperfective aspect may be fused with the past tense, for a form traditionally called the imperfect. In some cases, such as Spanish and Portuguese, this is because the imperfective aspect occurs only in the past tense; others, such as Georgian and Bulgarian, have both general imperfectives and imperfects. Other languages with distinct past imperfectives include Latin and Persian.
Perfective[edit]
Main article: Perfective aspect
The opposite aspect is the perfective (in Ancient Greek, generally called the aorist), which views a situation as a simple whole, without interior composition. (This is not the same as the perfect.) Unlike most other tense–aspect category oppositions, it is typical for a language not to choose either perfective or imperfective as being generally marked and the other as being generally unmarked.[8]: pp.69, 72 
In narrative, one of the uses of the imperfective is to set the background scene ("It was midnight.  The room was dark.  The rain was beating down.  Water was streaming in through a broken window.  A gun lay on the table."), with the perfective describing foregrounded actions within that scene ("Suddenly, a man burst into the room, ran over to the table, and grabbed the gun.").
English does not have these aspects. However, the background-action contrast provides a decent approximation in English:
"John was reading when I entered."
Here 'entered' presents "the totality of the situation referred to [...]: the whole of the situation is presented as a single unanalysable whole, with beginning, middle, and end all rolled into one; no attempt is made to divide this situation up into the various individual phases that make up the action of entry."[9] This is the essence of the perfective aspect: an event presented as an unanalyzed whole.
'Was reading', however, is different. Besides being the background to 'entered', the form 'reading' presents "an internal portion of John's reading, [with] no explicit reference to the beginning or to the end of his reading."[9] This is the essence of the imperfective aspect. Or, to continue the quotation, "the perfective looks at the situation from the outside, without necessarily distinguishing any of the internal structure of the situation, whereas the imperfective looks at the situation from inside, and as such is crucially concerned with the internal structure of the situation, since it can both look backwards towards the start of the situation, and look forwards to the end of the situation, and indeed it is equally appropriate if the situation is one that lasts through all time, without any beginning and without any end."
This is why, within the past tense, perfective verbs are typically translated into English as simple past, like 'entered', whereas imperfective verbs are typically translated as 'was reading', 'used to read', and the like. (In English, it is easiest to illustrate aspect in the past tense. However, any tense is possible: Present "John is reading as I enter", future "John will be reading when I enter", etc.: In each tense, the aspectual distinction is the same.)
This aspectual distinction is not inherent to the events themselves, but is decided by how the speaker views them or wishes to present them. The very same event may be described as perfective in one clause, and then imperfective in the next. For example,
"John read that book yesterday; while he was reading it, the postman came,"
where the two forms of 'to read' refer to the same thing. In 'John read that book yesterday', however, John's reading is presented as a complete event, without further subdivision into successive temporal phases; while in 'while he was reading it', this event is opened up, so that the speaker is now in the middle of the situation of John's reading, as it is in the middle of this reading that the postman arrives.[9]
The perfective and imperfective need not occur together in the same utterance; indeed they more often do not. However, it is difficult to describe them in English without an explicit contrast like "John was reading when I entered."
Combination[edit]
The two aspects may be combined on the same verb in a few languages, for perfective imperfectives and imperfective perfectives. Georgian and Bulgarian, for example, have parallel perfective-imperfective and aorist-imperfect forms, the latter restricted to the past tense. In Bulgarian, there are parallel perfective and imperfective stems; aorist and imperfect suffixes are typically added to the perfective and imperfective stems, respectively, but the opposite can occur. For example, an imperfect perfective is used in Bulgarian for a simple action that is repeated or habitual:[10]
vechereveningsedn-eshesit.PFV-PST.IPFVnaonchardak-averanda-DEFvecher sedn-eshe na chardak-aevening sit.PFV-PST.IPFV on veranda-DEFIn the evening, he would sit down on the veranda.
Here each sitting is an unanalyzed whole, a simple event, so the perfective root of the verb sedn 'sat' is used. However, the clause as a whole describes an ongoing event conceived of as having internal structure, so the imperfective suffix -eshe is added. Without the suffix, the clause would read simply as In the evening he sat on the veranda.
References[edit]
^ VAN OLPHEN, HERMAN (1975). "Aspect, Tense, and Mood in the Hindi Verb". Indo-Iranian Journal. 16 (4): 284–301. doi:10.1163/000000075791615397. ISSN 0019-7246. JSTOR 24651488. S2CID 161530848.
^ Shapiro, Michael C. (1989). A Primer of Modern Standard Hindi. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 216–246. ISBN 81-208-0475-9.
^ Campbell, George L. (1995). Compendium of the World's Languages. Great Britain: Routledge. pp. 225–229. ISBN 0-415-11392-X.
^ Mahajan, Anoop (2012-02-01). "Ergatives, antipassives and the overt light v in Hindi". Lingua. Accounting for Ergativity. 122 (3): 204–214. doi:10.1016/j.lingua.2011.10.011. ISSN 0024-3841.
^ Shapiro, Michael C. (1989). A Primer of Modern Standard Hindi. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass. pp. 216–246. ISBN 81-208-0475-9.
^ 
Bybee, Joan; Perkins, Revere; Pagliuca, William (1994). "1: Theoretical Background". The Evolution of Grammar: Tense, Aspect, and Modality in the Languages of the World. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. p. 17. ISBN 9780226086651. Retrieved 2016-08-04. The Slavic perfective prefixes originally signaled locative notions which made the verb telic (just as go out', go through, and eat up are telic in English).
^ 
Josephson, Folke (2008). "Actionality and aspect in Hittite". In Josephson, Folke; Söhrman, Ingmar (eds.). Interdependence of Diachronic and Synchronic Analyses. Studies in language companion series. Vol. 103. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing. p. 143. ISBN 9789027205704. Retrieved 2016-08-04. The imperfective suffix in Slavic languages corresponds to the English progressive (cf. Borer 2005). [...] According to Arsenijevic the meaning of the Slavic imperfective suffix is slightly more general than that of the progressive.
^ a b Östen Dahl, 1985. Tense and Aspect Systems. Blackwell.
^ a b c Bernard Comrie, 1976. Aspect. Cambridge University Press
^ "Bulgarian", Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, ed. 2
vteGrammatical and lexical aspectsComplete vs. incomplete
Perfective
Aorist
Momentane
Semelfactive#
Imperfective
Continuous and progressive
Delimitative
Imperfect
Iterative/distributive/frequentative#
Generic vs. episodic
Gnomic
Habitual
Beginning vs. ending
Inchoative aspect/verb#
Cessative
Relative time
Perfect (Retrospective)
Prospective
#Lexical aspects. Grammatical aspects unmarked.
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Imperfective_aspect&oldid=1131288227"
Category: Grammatical aspectsHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from September 2010All articles needing additional references
 This page was last edited on 3 January 2023, at 12:57 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width