Global Innovation Index 2022: What is the future of innovation-driven growth?
On this page 
Which are the most innovative economies in 2022?
The biggest science and technology innovation clusters in the world in 2022
What is the future of innovation – driven growth?
Global Innovation Tracker
About the Global Innovation Index
Previous editions of the Global Innovation Index
Global Innovation Index 2022
What is the future of innovation-driven growth?
The 2022 edition of the Global Innovation Index (GII) tracks the most recent global innovation trends against the background of an ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, slowing productivity growth and other evolving challenges. It reveals the most innovative economies in the world, ranking the innovation performance of around 132 economies while highlighting innovation strengths and weaknesses.
This edition's thematic focus on the future of innovation-driven growth provides a stance on whether stagnation and low productivity growth are here to stay, or whether we are about to enter a new era, where new innovation spurts - the Digital Age and the Deep Science Innovation waves - bring about an economic uplift.
Global Innovation Index 2022: What You Need to Know
Watch the Video on YouTube
Download the Global Innovation Index 2022 | Related documents | Expert contributions
Watch the launch event Agenda | Flyer | Press release | Event photos 
Executive Summary in: English, Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish.
Which are the most innovative economies in 2022?
Switzerland is the most innovative economy in the world in 2022 - for the 12th year in a row - followed by the United States, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. China is nearing the top 10 while Türkiye and India enter the top 40 for the first time, according to the GII 2022.
How does your economy rank in the Global Innovation Index 2022?
Find out more about the Global Innovation Index ranking
Select an economy
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malaysia
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
North Macedonia
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
Togo
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Türkiye
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United Republic of Tanzania
United States of America
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
 
(click to enlarge)
X
The biggest science and technology innovation clusters in the world in 2022
The Global Innovation Index 2022 announces the biggest science and technology (S&T) innovation clusters in the world with the highest density of inventors and scientific authors. S&T innovation clusters are often referred to as “science and technology hubs”.
In 2022, Tokyo–Yokohama is the top science and tech hub in the world, followed by Shenzhen–Hong Kong–Guangzhou (China and Hong Kong, China), Beijing (China), Seoul (Republic of Korea) and San Jose–San Francisco (United States).
Find out more what are the top 100 science and technology innovation clusters in 2022.
Global Innovation Index 2022: Top 10 Science and Technology Clusters
 
Close
Global Innovation Tracker
The Global Innovation Tracker measures the pace of technological progress and adoption, and captures key innovation trends within the four stages of the innovation journey.
According to this year’s Global Innovation Tracker, despite the economic downturn, investments in science and innovation have been remarkably resilient and technology adoption recorded positive growth rates across technologies. However, the socioeconomic impact of innovation is at a historic low, showing the detrimental effect of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Science and innovations investments
X
 
Technological progress
X
 
Technology adoption
X
 
Socioeconomic impact
X
Find out about the latest innovation trends unveiled by the Global Innovation Tracker.
What is the future of innovation–driven growth?
In the past, innovation used to be a key driver of economic growth, helping us to improve productivity. However, since the 1970s, technological advancements have not generated the type of sustained productivity growth that we experienced in previous industrial revolutions. Nevertheless, techno-optimists anticipate two major innovation waves that could spurt economic growth.
So, are we likely to live through a period of stagnation or will major innovations emerge that change all our lives for the better?
In this edition of the Global Innovation Index, experts reflect on whether with emerging technology and progress in science, we are to expect a period of productivity stagnation or if in the contrary, this will drive productivity.
Find out about what the future of innovation holds for the economy.
 
Graphic showing two future emerging innovation waves: the digital age wave and the deep science wave
(click to enlarge)
X
About the Global Innovation Index
Moving into its 15th edition in 2022, the Global Innovation Index has been a leading reference for measuring an economy’s innovation performance. A large number of countries use the GII to assess and improve their innovation ecosystems and use the GII as a reference in economic plans and/or policies.
Join the conversation: #GlobalInnovationIndex
What is the Global Innovation Index?
 
Close
Read our blog
Download materials from our social media kit
Previous editions of the Global Innovation IndexAll editions
2021 - Tracking Innovation through the COVID-19 Crisis
The GII 2021 presented the most recent global innovation trends in the new Global Innovation Tracker. This edition also focused on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on innovation.
2020 – Who Will Finance Innovation?
The GII 2020 shed light on the state of innovation financing by investigating the evolution of existing mechanisms and pointing to progress and remaining challenges.
2019 – The Future of Medical Innovation
The GII 2019 analyzed the medical innovation landscape of the next decade, looking at how technological and non-technological medical innovation will transform the delivery of healthcare worldwide.
2018 – Energizing the World with Innovation
The GII 2018 analyzed the energy innovation landscape of the next decade and identifies possible breakthroughs in fields such as energy production, storage, distribution, and consumption.
https://www3.wipo.int/contact/en/area.jsp?area=gii
https://www.wipo.int/pressroom/en/
https://www.wipo.int/tools/en/disclaim.html
https://www.wipo.int/tools/en/privacy_policy.html
https://www.wipo.int/accessibility/en/
https://www.wipo.int/tools/en/sitemap.html
https://www3.wipo.int/newsletters/en/
https://www.wipo.int/podcasts/en/
https://www.wipo.int/news/en/