Autism Spectrum Disorders Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Autism Spectrum Disorders87,496 FollowersMost downloaded papers in Autism Spectrum DisordersTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleEvidence of increased PTSD symptoms in autistics exposed to applied behavior analysisThis study examines the prevalence of Posttraumatic Stress Symptoms (PTSS) in adults and children who were exposed to Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) autism early childhood intervention. Using an online questionnaire to survey autistic... moreThis study examines the prevalence of Posttraumatic Stress Symptoms (PTSS) in adults and children who were exposed to Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) autism early childhood intervention. Using an online questionnaire to survey autistic adults and caregivers of autistic children, we collected data from 460 respondents on demographics, intervention types, and current pathological behaviors with symptom severity scales. This study noted PTSS in nearly half of ABA-exposed participants, while non-exposed controls had a 72% chance of being asymptomatic. ABA satisfaction ratings for caregivers averaged neutral or mild satisfaction. In contrast, adult satisfaction with ABA was lower on average and also tended to take on either extremely low or extremely high ratings. Exposure to ABA predicted a higher rate and more severe PTSS in participants, but the duration of exposure did not affect satisfaction with the intervention in caregivers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Henny Kupferstein, Ph.D.•  6  Autism, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Autism Spectrum Disorders, Applied Behavior AnalysisApplied behavior analysis in Autism Spectrum Disorders: Recent developments, strengths, and pitfallsSave to LibraryDownloadby Kimberly Tureck•  7  Genetics, Psychology, Research Methodology, AutismUso de las nuevas tecnologiascomo una nueva herramienta para pacientes con autismo en IberoamericaSave to LibraryDownloadby Cristina Elizabeth García  Guerrero•  6  Information Technology, Autism, Mobile Technology, Autism Spectrum DisordersEffects of swimming training on physical fitness and water orientation in autismSave to LibraryDownloadby Binyamin Birkan•  3  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Swimming, Water OrientatinGallagher, S.  2005. How the Body Shapes the Mind.  Oxford University Press.How the Body Shapes the Mind is an interdisciplinary work that addresses philosophical questions by appealing to evidence found in experimental psychology, neuroscience, studies of pathologies, and developmental psychology. There is a... moreHow the Body Shapes the Mind is an interdisciplinary work that addresses philosophical questions by appealing to evidence found in experimental psychology, neuroscience, studies of pathologies, and developmental psychology. There is a growing consensus across these disciplines that the contribution of embodiment to cognition is inescapable. Because this insight has been developed across a variety of disciplines, however, there is still a need to develop a common vocabulary that is capable of integrating discussions of brain mechanisms in neuroscience, behavioral expressions in psychology, design concerns in artificial intelligence and robotics, and debates about embodied experience in the phenomenology and philosophy of mind. Shaun Gallagher's book aims to contribute to the formulation of that common vocabulary and to develop a conceptual framework that will avoid both the overly reductionistic approaches that explain everything in terms of bottom-up neuronal mechanisms, and inflationistic approaches that explain everything in terms of Cartesian, top-down cognitive states. Gallagher pursues two basic sets of questions. The first set consists of questions about the phenomenal aspects of the structure of experience, and specifically the relatively regular and constant features that we find in the content of our experience. If throughout conscious experience there is a constant reference to one's own body, even if this is a recessive or marginal awareness, then that reference constitutes a structural feature of the phenomenal field of consciousness, part of a framework that is likely to determine or influence all other aspects of experience. The second set of questions concerns aspects of the structure of experience that are more hidden, those that may be more difficult to get at because they happen before we know it. They do not normally enter into the content of experience in an explicit way, and are often inaccessible to reflective consciousness. To what extent, and in what ways, are consciousness and cognitive processes, which include experiences related to perception, memory, imagination, belief, judgement, and so forth, shaped or structured by the fact that they are embodied in this way?Save to LibraryDownloadby Shaun Gallagher•  10  Cognitive Science, Schizophrenia, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Social CognitionA Review of Technology-Based Interventions to Teach Academic Skills to Students with Autism Spectrum DisorderSave to LibraryDownloadby Bethany McKissick•  3  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Instructional Technology, General Curriculum AccessAnalysis of Receptive Language Skills of Children with Autism and Normal Development from the Point of Different VariablesThe purpose of this study is to compare the receptive language skills of full time mainstreaming students diagnosed with autism, with normally developing children both are attending primary school. The study group of this investigation... moreThe purpose of this study is to compare the receptive language skills of full time mainstreaming students diagnosed with autism, with normally developing children both are attending primary school. The study group of this investigation consists of 20 full time mainstreaming students with autism and consists of 20 typical developed children. Data collection tool of this study is the Picture-Vocabulary Test of Peabody, two-way analysis of variance is used as analysis method. Results are interpreted according to .05 significance level. As a result of this research, it is observed that the difference between of receptive language skills of full time mainstreaming students diagnosed with autism and normally developing children, who are attending primary school, is significant. It is also observed that the gender does not have any effect on receptive language skills and also that the receptive language skills develop in direct proportion to grade.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kamil Karadeniz•  6  Special Education, Autism, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Inclusive EducationHemispheric specialization of impaired disengagement of attention in depression: a tachistoscopic methodDifficulty shifting attention away from negative stimuli once engaged is a wellestablished cognitive bias observed in depression. This study attempted to determine whether this impaired disengagement of attention is lateralized in the... moreDifficulty shifting attention away from negative stimuli once engaged is a wellestablishedcognitive bias observed in depression. This study attempted todetermine whether this impaired disengagement of attention is lateralized inthe brain. Thirty depressed and 30 control participants performed anattention disengagement task wherein the valence of the stimulus and thevisual field was presented. The depressed group had longer reaction timesthan the control group, indicative of the typical cognitive and psychomotorslowing seen in depression. The effect of visual field presentation on theability to disengage attention however was different for controls as comparedto the patients. In controls, a distinct right hemisphere advantage was seenfor disengaging attention which is in line with research that has identifiedright hemisphere structures as the seat of behavioural inhibition. In thedepressed group, however, this right hemisphere advantage was not observed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pereira Sharon and +1Azizuddin Khan•  3  Memory (Cognitive Psychology), Autism Spectrum Disorders, Neurodevelopmental DisordersMusic: a unique window into the world of autismUnderstanding emotions is fundamental to our ability to navigate the complex world of human social interaction. Individualswith autism spectrum disorders(ASD) experience difficultieswith the communication and understanding of emotions... moreUnderstanding emotions is fundamental to our ability to navigate the complex world of human social interaction. Individualswith autism spectrum disorders(ASD) experience difficultieswith the communication and understandingof emotions within the social domain. Their ability to interpret other people’s nonverbal, facial, and bodily expressions of emotion is strongly curtailed. However, there is evidence to suggest that many individuals with ASD show a strong and early preference for music and are able to understand simple and complex musical emotions in childhood and adulthood. The dissociation between emotion recognition abilities in musical and social domains in individuals with ASD provides us with the opportunity to consider the nature of emotion processing difficulties characterizing this disorder. There has recently been a surge of interest in musical abilities in individuals with ASD, and this has motivated new behavioral and neuroimaging studies.Here, we review this new work.We conclude by providing somequestions for future directions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pamela Heaton•  3  Music, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Autism Spectrum TreatmentAutismo_oggetto_culturale_Onofri.pdfQuesto lavoro è un estratto della mia tesi di Master in "Didattica e Psicopedagogia per gli allievi con disturbi dello spettro autistico", svolto presso l'Università di Roma Tre (Roma, Italia) nell'a.a. 2016-2017Save to LibraryDownloadby Orestina  Onofri•  7  Teacher Education, Disability Studies, Critical Disability Studies, Critical PedagogyIntervención fonoaudiológica Recursos para facilitar el desarrollo lingüístico de niños con retraso de lenguajeEl objetivo que se pretende alcanzar consiste en desarrollar una habilidad metacognitiva: La utilización de los recursos lingüísticos y comunicativos de forma consciente y discrecional aplicados al habla dirigida a los niños que... moreEl objetivo que se pretende alcanzar consiste en desarrollar una habilidad  metacognitiva: La utilización de los recursos  lingüísticos y comunicativos de forma consciente y discrecional aplicados al habla dirigida a los niños que presenten retrasos de lenguaje. Este uso permitirá valorar los efectos conseguidos en la tarea de desarrollar formas más elaboradas, disminuir los errores, evitar la falta de respuesta verbal o aumentar la fluidez dentro de un marco comunicativo.Save to LibraryDownloadby Monica Rousseau and +1Magali stolovitsky Colb•  6  Languages and Linguistics, Natural Language Processing, Speech-Language Pathology/ Communication Disorders, Autism Spectrum DisordersTransition to adulthood for individuals with autism spectrum disorder: current issues and future perspectivesSave to LibraryDownloadby Susan Parish and +2Nora FriedmanMarji Erickson Warfield•  2  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Transition to AdulthoodHow and Why is Autism Spectrum Disorder Misdiagnosed in Adult Patients? - From Diagnostic Problem to Management for Adjustment -Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is often overlooked or misdiagnosed in adult patients especially in those with other psychiatric comorbidities. Several reasons possibly account for this fact, for example, difficulty in obtaining accurate... moreAutism spectrum disorder (ASD) is often overlooked or misdiagnosed in adult patients especially in those with other psychiatric comorbidities. Several reasons possibly account for this fact, for example, difficulty in obtaining accurate developmental history from a patient, insufficient experience among psychiatrists detecting ASD in adult patients, and mild/atypical autistic traits in contrast to prominent symptoms of psychiatric comorbidities. We conducted a search of databases (PubMed, PsycINFO, and ERIC) for relevant articles published from January 2000 to May 2015 and summarized unrecognized or misdiagnosed cases as well as major psychiatric comorbidities among adults with ASD from previous reports. Five disorders, (i.e., schizophrenia, psychotic disorder, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and personality disorder) were specifically highlighted as misdiagnosed psychiatric diseases or comorbidities responsible for unrecognized ASD. This review also proposes plausible pathways for patterns of maladjustment and processes leading to misdiagnosis among adults with ASD, together with necessary approaches to support their goals of a requisite social life. In conclusion, clinicians should be more concerned with correct diagnosis of ASD as well as treatments of psychiatric comorbidities and need perspective of management for better mental health and social adjustment in ASD patients.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kiyoharu  Takara•  7  Psychology, Psychiatry, Autism, Mental HealthFixing the MirrorsSave to LibraryDownloadby Sabine Koch•Autism Spectrum DisordersWorking memory and autism: A review of literatureResearch studies that evaluated working memory with students with autism and other disorders were reviewed and summarized. Results suggest that persons with autism score lower on measures of working memory than do typical controls... moreResearch studies that evaluated working memory with students with autism and other disorders were reviewed and summarized. Results suggest that persons with autism score lower on measures of working memory than do typical controls especially on tasks that require cognitive flexibility, planning, greater working memory load, and spatial working memory, and with increasing task complexity and in dual task conditions. Lower scores in verbal working memory were associated with greater problems in adaptive behavior and more restrictive and repetitive behavior. Children with autism were as likely as typical children to employ articulatory rehearsal (verbal WM). The format of WM tasks may determine whether or not performance is impaired. Implications for educational practice and future research are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Janice Grskovic and +1Jasmine Begeske•  2  Autism Spectrum Disorders, MemoryArresting Ashley X: Trans Youth, Puberty Blockers and the Question of Whether Time is on Your SideIn 2004, a young Seattle girl with significant disabilities known only by the pseudonym Ashley X, underwent a series of medical procedures without her consent. At the request of her parents, Ashley received a mastectomy, a hysterectomy... moreIn 2004, a young Seattle girl with significant disabilities known only by the pseudonym Ashley X, underwent a series of medical procedures without her consent. At the request of her parents, Ashley received a mastectomy, a hysterectomy and hormonal treatment, designed to arrest her development in a childlike state. In the eyes of her doctors, her family, and their lawyers, it was urgent that Ashley's body be aligned with her purported cognitive age. The temporal and ethical arguments used to justify her 'Treatment' turned Ashley's body into a site of international debate over disability and human rights, consent and medical science, eugenics and human engineering. Yet the similarities and differences between Ashley's non-consensual pubertal arrest versus that actively sought by trans youth are rarely mentioned. This paper uses the clinical and media discourses at work in both the 'Ashley Treatment' and the treatment sought by trans youth to think through this moment in which some bodies are treated to greater forms of autonomy while other bodies have none. I argue that the discourses used to secure transition for some trans youth ought to be weighed against the implications for others, in particular for trans youth with disabilities. While the availability of puberty suppression for trans youth can be narrated as a sign that things are getting better, the literatures of queer temporality and critical disability studies help to consider that it may also augur something else—a widening gap between those invested with the ability to stop time versus those who are stopped in time.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jake Pyne•  48  Gender Studies, Queer Studies, Sex and Gender, Sociology of Children and ChildhoodThe Inclusion of children with Autistic Spectrum Disorder in Mainstream Primary Schools This paper explores the inclusion of children with Autistic Spectrum Disorder in mainstream primary schools in England, drawing on existing research. Following a discussion on the nature and importance of Autistic Spectrum Disorder, the... moreThis paper explores the inclusion of children with Autistic Spectrum Disorder in mainstream primary schools in England, drawing on existing research. Following a discussion on the nature and importance of Autistic Spectrum Disorder, the paper goes on to explore two main themes: theory and policy, and the impact of inclusion on practice. The section on theory and policy considers the history of inclusive education and the importance of inclusive practice, and goes on to define and analyse the barriers to inclusion. Finally, this section analyses the specific inclusion of children with Autistic Spectrum Disorder. The section on the impact of inclusion on practice is further split into educational inclusion and social inclusion, paying particular attention to the different support and barriers affecting these issues. This paper has found that children with Autistic Spectrum Disorder are not fully included in mainstream primary schools; they experience higher rates of exclusion, lower attainment and higher rates of bullying. In order to increase the inclusion of children with Autistic Spectrum Disorder in mainstream primary schools, teachers need to address the complexity and individuality of these children and adapt their strategies accordingly. This paper concludes that the main barriers to educational and social inclusion are a lack of financial support and autism specific training for teachers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Samantha Daniels•  4  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Inclusion, Social Inclusion, Educational InclusionGuía de atención a personas con Trastorno del Espectro AutistaSave to LibraryDownloadby Raquel Casado Muñoz and +1Fernando Lezcano•  5  Education, Autism, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Educación  Jungian Theory and Students with Emotional Disturbances (Autism & ADHD): an emphasis in Applying Jungian Theory to Students with Asperger’s SyndromeSave to LibraryDownloadby Alexander G. Colombos•  9  Special Education, Creativity, ADHD (Psychology), Autism Spectrum DisordersEmpathizing, systemizing, and the extreme male brain theory of autismFemales in the general population on average have a stronger drive to empathize, and males in the general population on average have a stronger drive to systemize. Evidence related to these claims is reviewed. People with autism spectrum... moreFemales in the general population on average have a stronger drive to empathize, and males in the general population on average have a stronger drive to systemize. Evidence related to these claims is reviewed. People with autism spectrum conditions have below average empathy alongside intact or even above average interest in systems. As such, they can be conceptualized as an extreme of the typical male brain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Simon  Baron-Cohen•  6  Psychiatry, Autism, Autism Spectrum Disorders, EmpathyDesarrollo normal y AutismoSave to LibraryDownloadby Yinyer Oswald•  10  Occupational Therapy, Autism, Art Therapy, Autism Spectrum DisordersMusic as a therapeutic intervention with Autism: A systematic review of the literatureSave to LibraryDownloadby Dawn DeVries•  7  Therapeutic Recreation, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Music Therapy, Music Therapy for Children with Developmental DisabilitiesWorking Memory in Children with Autism and with Moderate Learning DifficultiesWe asked whether children with autism are specifically impaired on tests of working memory. Experiment 1 showed that children with autism were at least as likely as normal children to employ articulatory rehearsal (criterion: evincing the... moreWe asked whether children with autism are specifically impaired on tests of working memory. Experiment 1 showed that children with autism were at least as likely as normal children to employ articulatory rehearsal (criterion: evincing the “word length effect”) and that they had superior spans to that of children with moderate learning difficulties. In Experiment 2, participants were given “capacity tasks” in order to examine group differences in the capacity of the central executive of working memory. The performance of the children with autism was inferior to that of the normally developing group and similar to that of the children with moderate learning difficulties.Save to LibraryDownloadby lucy henry•  10  Psychology, Cognitive Science, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Learning DifficultiesThe experience of friendship, victimization and bullying in children with an autism spectrum disorder: Associations with child characteristics and school placementSave to LibraryDownloadby tom loucas•  6  Psychology, Autism, Autism Spectrum Disorders, InteractionNeurodiversity: bridging the gap between the Disabled People's Movement and the Mental Health System Survivors' Movement?Chapter in the book 'Madness, Distress and the Politics of Disablement' edited by Spandler, Anderson & Sapey, 2015, Policy Press, pp.231-243 This chapter traces the origins and evolution of the neurodiversity movement, which consists of... moreChapter in the book 'Madness, Distress and the Politics of Disablement' edited by Spandler, Anderson & Sapey, 2015, Policy Press, pp.231-243This chapter traces the origins and evolution of the neurodiversity movement, which consists of people with conditions (such as autistic spectrum 'disorders', AD(H)D, dyspraxia, dyslexia, etc.) which have been positioned somewhere in between the traditional categories of 'disability' and 'mental illness'. The neurodiversity movement has roots in, and, as will be argued, has new insights to offer to, both the disabled people's and survivor movements; thus it should be of interest for those seeking to bridge conceptual gaps between the disabled people’s and survivor movements -such as the sticking point between them over the concept of 'impairment' (Plumb 1994).Writers and activists within the neurodiversity movement are acutely aware of and concerned with the social construction of both 'distress' and 'disability', and have developed their own distinct analysis of these concepts. This chapter gives an overview of some of that thinking. It draws on my own experience within the neurodiversity movement, as well as on published literature from all three movements, to illustrate the convergences and divergences between them, and finally offers some suggestions for ways forward...Save to LibraryDownloadby Steve Graby•  7  Disability Studies, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Sociology of Mental Health & Illness, Disabled people movementTıp Eğitiminde Kullanılan Etkileşimli Videolar ile İlgili Görüşlerinin İncelenmesi (Examination of Student Views Concerning Interactive Videos Used in Medical Education)Abstract Objective: The objective of this study is to identify the views of students of medicine concerning interactive videos and make inferences about the importance of such videos in medical education in line with the views of... moreAbstractObjective: The objective of this study is to identify the views of students of medicine concerning interactive videos and make inferences about the importance of such videos in medical education in line with the views of students.Materials/Methodology: The participants to thesurvey consisted of 12 students from the School of Medicine of Ataturk University who took part in interactive video practice. This video covers the issues of “What is autism”, “What are its symptoms”, “How to distinguish an autistic child from others” and “How to examine for autism”. It was a case study as one of the methods of qualitative survey. Interview forms were used as instruments of data collection and collected data were examined through content analysis.Outcomes: Students found interactive videos useful in that it facilitates learning about the symptoms and diagnosing autism. Students also made positive statements about the application of such videos in different contexts.Discussion: It is found that students consider the use of interactive videos in medical education positively. Hence, interactive videos may be used in medical education particularly in the context of psychiatric disorders where diagnosing is relatively difficult. Further, videos may also be used in monitoring specific cases and making diagnosis accordingly.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elif Taslibeyaz•  2  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Interactive VideoModelli teorici e programmi di intervento nell'autismo infantileIl presente elaborato passa in rassegna la storia dei modelli teorici e dei piani di intervento che si sono susseguito negli ultimi decenni in campo di disabilità, con un'attenzione particolare all'autismo infantile.Save to LibraryDownloadby annamaria orsi•  11  Education, Teacher Education, Autism, Autism Spectrum DisordersObiettivi didattici nell'educazione di soggetti autisticiSave to LibraryDownloadby Guido Del Din•  3  Special Education, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Autism Spectrum TreatmentComparison of behavioral intervention and sensory-integration therapy in the treatment of self-injurious behaviorSave to LibraryDownloadby Olive Healy•  23  Psychology, Functional Analysis, Education, Behavior ModificationMémoire de Fin d'études_CyberPsychologieSave to LibraryDownloadby Adrian E RADILLO•  14  Psychoanalysis, Social Networks, Cyberpsychology, TechnocultureRecomendaciones para la contención emocional y conductual en contextos educativos.Actualización JUNIO 2023: NUEVA VERSIÓN aumentada y enriquecida. - El objetivo general de estas recomendaciones es brindar herramientas y orientación para la contención conductual y emocional de estudiantes que presentan cuadros graves... moreActualización JUNIO 2023: NUEVA VERSIÓN aumentada y enriquecida. - El objetivo general de estas recomendaciones es brindar herramientas y orientación para la contención conductual y emocional de estudiantes que presentan cuadros graves de desregulación emocional. El manual está dirigido a equipos pedagógicos, profesores, asistentes de educación y otros profesionales que trabajan con niños en entornos educativos. Los cuadros graves de desregulación emocional se definen como patrones persistentes de comportamiento que afectan significativamente la regulación emocional y tienen un impacto negativo en la vida diaria del individuo y su entorno. Estos cuadros pueden estar asociados con diversas condiciones de alteración del neurodesarrollo o trastornos de salud mental, como el trastorno límite de la personalidad, los trastornos del espectro autista y el trastorno por déficit de atención e hiperactividad, entre otros. SI TIENES ALGUNA RECOMENDACIÓN NO DUDES EN HACÉRMELO SABER SANCHEZ.LUENGO@GMAIL.COMSave to LibraryDownloadby Patricio Sanchez Luengo•  19  Emotional intelligence, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Emotion Regulation, Diversity & InclusionAddressing Autism Spectrum Disorder through Yoga as a Complementary TherapyAutism is a neuro-developmental disorder characterized by restricted, repetitive activities and impaired social interaction. Its severity varies from individual to individual. Yoga, a mind–body intervention is often used as a... moreAutism is a neuro-developmental disorder characterized by restricted, repetitive activities and impaired social interaction. Its severity varies from individual to individual. Yoga, a mind–body intervention is often used as a complementary approach to enhance mental equipoise and focus and can be performed by all including those with acute or chronic painful disabilities. The emotional impact is difficult and devastating for people with autism and their families/caregivers. People with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) should be regarded simply as ‘different’ rather than ‘disordered’; as they may have no speech or may have other complexities needing full-time care. Yogic techniques for ASD such as basic Jathis and Kriyas help to improve flexibility, Asanas work increase muscles and joints circulation and physical functioning becomes more integrated and less stressful. Pranayama and Asanas work hand-in-hand to balance and integrate different physiological functions, dissolve emotional blockages and negative habitual patterns. Yoga harmonises mind-body-emotion complex building up, helps to develop social relationships, promotes positive outlook, self-confidence and selfsufficiency. It also improves loco-motor skills, psycho-motor coordination, eye-hand coordination, attention span, immunity, appetite, sleep and promotes overall health. Regular practice reduces hyperactivity, aggression and dependency of drugs along with reduction in negative traits and tendencies to cause injury to self and others. In conclusion, yoga is an experiential science (Anubuthi Shastra) which can be used as a supplemental therapy for ASD.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ananda B Bhavanani•  3  Yoga Meditation, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Yoga TherapyImproving Transition Behaviors in Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders: A comprehensive evaluation of interventions in educational settings.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jenna  Lequia•  3  Special Education, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Challenging BehaviorEvidence-Based Practices for Students with Severe DisabilitiesIndividuals with moderate and severe developmental disabilities have been offered some of the most rapidly evolving educational services since students with disabilities were first guaranteed a free appropriate public education in 1975... moreIndividuals with moderate and severe developmental disabilities have been offered some of the most rapidly evolving educational services since students with disabilities were first guaranteed a free appropriate public education in 1975 (under PL 94-142). Although schools were not required to provide services prior to the 1970s, schools now must be accountable for ensuring that all students, including those with severe disabilities, make adequate yearly progress. For students to make adequate progress, teachers need access to the most effective instructional procedures available. Fortunately, research on how to teach students with severe disabilities has also rapidly evolved in the past 40 years. Our purpose for this IC was to summarize current, high-quality research on teaching students with severe disabilities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julie  Thompson•  3  Special Education, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Severe DisablitiesNoise from the periphery in autism (Brincker & Torres, 2013)Developmental disorders such as autism have generally been theorized as due to some kind of modular “deficit” or “dysfunction”—typically of cortical origin, i.e., failures of “theory of mind”, of the “mirror neuron system”, of “weak... moreDevelopmental disorders such as autism have generally been theorized as due to some kind of modular “deficit” or “dysfunction”—typically of cortical origin, i.e., failures of “theory of mind”, of the “mirror neuron system”, of “weak central coherence” or of the balance of “empathizing” and “systemizing”, just to list a few. The broad array of autonomic and sensorimotor differences experienced and reported by people with autism have by such theories typically been sidelined as “co-morbidities,” possibly sharing genetic causes, but rendered as incidental and decisively behaviorally irrelevant symptoms—surely disconnected from cognition. This article entertains the idea that the development of cortically based mental processes and autonomous control relies on the complexities and proper function of the peripheral nervous systems. Through such an “embodied” lens the heterogeneous symptoms of autism invites new interpretations. We propose here that many behavioral-level findings can be re-defined as downstream effects of how developing nervous systems attempt to cope and adapt to the challenges of having various noisy, unpredictable, and unreliable peripheral inputs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria  Brincker and +1Elizabeth Torres•  118  Neuroscience, Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive ScienceResearch-Based Educational Practices for Students With Autism Spectrum DisordersSave to LibraryDownloadby Elizabeth Hughes•  2  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Autism Spectrum TreatmentSensory integration therapy for autism spectrum disorders: A systematic reviewSave to LibraryDownloadby Sanne Giesbers•  2  Psychology, Autism Spectrum DisordersThe self to other model of empathy: providing a new framework for understanding empathy impairments in psychopathy, autism, and alexithymiaDespite increasing empirical and theoretical work on empathy, particularly on the content of empathic representations, there is a relative lack of consensus regarding the information processing necessary for empathy to occur. Here we... moreDespite increasing empirical and theoretical work on empathy, particularly on the content of empathic representations, there is a relative lack of consensus regarding the information processing necessary for empathy to occur. Here we attempt to delineate a mechanistic cognitive model of empathy in order to provide a framework within which neuroimaging work on empathy can be located, and which may be used in order to understand various disorders characterised by atypical levels of empathy. To this end data from individuals with psychopathy, autism, and alexithymia inform the model, and the model is used to provide a unifying framework for any empathy impairments seen in these disorders. The model adopts a developmental framework and tries to address the four difficult questions of empathy: How do we know what another is feeling? What is the role of theory of mind in empathy? How does the state of another cause a corresponding state in the self? How do we represent another&#39;s emoti...Save to LibraryDownloadby Geoff  Bird and +1Essi Viding•  12  Autism, Empathy (Psychology), Autism Spectrum Disorders, Theory of MindCollective unconscious: How gut microbes shape human behaviorThe human gut harbors a dynamic and complex microbial ecosystem, consisting of approximately 1 kg of bacteria in the average adult, approximately the weight of the human brain. The evolutionary formation of a complex gut microbiota in... moreThe human gut harbors a dynamic and complex microbial ecosystem, consisting of approximately 1 kg of bacteria in the average adult, approximately the weight of the human brain. The evolutionary formation of a complex gut microbiota in mammals has played an important role in enabling brain development and perhaps sophisticated social interaction. Genes within the human gut microbiota, termed the microbiome, significantly outnumber human genes in the body, and are capable of producing a myriad of neuroactive compounds. Gut microbes are part of the unconscious system regulating behavior. Recent investigations indicate that these microbes majorly impact on cognitive function and fundamental behavior patterns, such as social interaction and stress management. In the absence of microbes, underlying neurochemistry is profoundly altered. Studies of gut microbes may play an important role in advancing understanding of disorders of cognitive functioning and social interaction, such as autism.Save to LibraryDownloadby Roman Stilling and +1Ted Dinan•  10  Psychiatry, Cognition, Autism Spectrum Disorders, StressTécnicas de intervención psicológica para la modulación emocional en pacientes con autismo que requieren tratamiento odontológicoEl autismo es un trastorno neurológico complejo que abarca una serie de alteraciones que afectan las habilidades de comunicación, socialización y empatía del individuo. La prevalencia del autismo a nivel mundial se ha incrementado... moreEl autismo es un trastorno neurológico complejo que abarca una serie de alteraciones que afectan las habilidades de comunicación, socialización y empatía del individuo. La prevalencia del autismo a nivel mundial se ha incrementado notablemente, lo cual tiene un impacto en los servicios odontológicos que demanda específicamente esta población. El autismo por sí solo no comprende características orales diferentes a las encontradas en pacientes sin esta patología. No obstante, el odontólogo debe buscar signos de erosión dental, bruxismo, gingivitis, caries, hiperplasia gingival y lesiones autoinflingidas. Por lo tanto, se requiere que el profesional posea habilidades emocionales, destrezas clínicas y una capacitación psicológica en técnicas de intervención que permitan y faciliten la atención odontológica, a saber: desensibilización sistemática, reforzamiento positivo o negativo, enseñanza estructurada (Método TEACCH) y distracción contingente. Desde el punto de vista profesional, la escasa preparación y el desconocimiento por parte del odontólogo son los principales obstáculos para lograr una visión interdisciplinaria entre la odontología y la psicología, donde los conocimientos psicológicos mejoren la condición de salud bucal y la calidad de los tratamientos dentales de los pacientes con autismo.Save to LibraryDownloadby ALEJANDRO  AMAÍZ•  8  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Dental Education, Odontologia, OdontologyToward a sociology of autism and neurodiversityDiscourse related to autism studies are multidisciplinary, applied, and extensive. Pulling from multiple disciplines and calling for interdisciplinary collaborations, I begin to construct a review of research relevant to move toward a... moreDiscourse related to autism studies are multidisciplinary,applied, and extensive. Pulling from multiple disciplinesand calling for interdisciplinary collaborations, I begin toconstruct a review of research relevant to move toward asociology of autism and neurodiversity. I argue that sociologyis positioned to utilize its epistemological and phenologicalstrengths to provide insight as well as fill in gaps inthe literature related to autism studies. I address controversiesand provide structural context to the sociocultural historyof the autism and neurodiversity. From Kanner andAsperger through to the DSM‐5, I outline the evolutionand social construction of autism and identify sociologicalprograms of scholarship that continue to shape (and beshaped) by understanding autism and neurodiversity. Usingtheoretical contributions rooted in social psychological principlesof symbolic interaction, such as mind, self, solidarity,and stigma—I address how sociology is shaping scholarshiprelated to autism and address interdisciplinary critiques ofthese programs. I highlight how the next generation ofscholars are formulating the cutting‐edge issues for thefuture of research within these areas and emphasize thatresearch programs should center work on improving thelived experiences of those on the spectrum.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jessica A Leveto, Ph.D.•  6  Sociology, Social Psychology, Autism, Autism Spectrum DisordersEscuela Inclusiva y Condición del Espectro AutistaGuía para docentes de educación básica sobre la inclusión educativa de niños y niñas dentro del Espectro Autista.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tonatiuh Lay•  2  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Autism (Education)Architecture for Autism. Improving Designs for Autistic IntegrationAutism is regarded as the most severe psychiatric syndrome of early childhood. Because the disease cannot be fully treated, the autistic child becomes the autistic adult, its condition depending on the severity of the syndrome and mostly... moreAutism is regarded as the most severe psychiatric syndrome of early childhood. Because the disease cannot be fully treated, the autistic child becomes the autistic adult, its condition depending on the severity of the syndrome and mostly on the treatment process. Since any person will spend about 75% of his life as an adult, the task of autism treatment is to prepare children to gain independence and to insure integration into society. As a result, people with autism need to be prepared at the earliest age to interact with other children and integrate into the public school system, which will determine a mental development similar to normal people. [1]  By doing this, autistic and non-autistic will learn similar sets of skills which will later facilitate their integration. Also, because they will get in contact with autistic children at an early age, non-autistic people will have a clearer understanding of autism and therefore be able to easily integrate them in work and social activities later in life. [2]Present design methods for autism treatment centers concentrate either on skill development (Sensory Design Theory) [3] or rigid adaptation to day-to-day circumstances (Neuro-Typical Approach) [4] without paying much attention to future autism integration. The paper focuses on analysing architectural methods that should be implemented in autism treatment institutions in order to facilitate the transition between the therapy environment and public education circumstances. The study establishes the difference between integration and assimilation of people with autism and refines present design approaches in order to achieve a more efficient integration process. Also, the study aims to improve the design methods that are presently used in treatment facilities, in order to make a better connection with post-therapy situations by introducing variation of sensory stimulation in the therapy spaces as well as interaction spaces for autistic and non-autistic peers inside autism treatment centers.[1]Frith, Uta (2003) – Autism: Explaining the Enigma 2nd edition, Oxford, (Blackwell)[2]Russo N, Foxe JJ, Brandwein AB, Altschuler T, Gomes H, Molholm S. (2010 Oct) – Multisensory processing in children with autism: high-density electrical mapping of auditory-somatosensory integration, Autism Research Journal, International Society for Autism Research[3]Mostafa, M (2014) - ARCHITECTURE FOR AUTISM: Autism ASPECTS în School Design, International Journal of Architectural Research, Volume 8[4]Henry, Christopher N. (2011 Nov) "Designing for Autism: The ‘Neuro-Typical’ Approach", ArchDailySave to LibraryDownloadby Andrei Pomana•  11  Architecture, Autism, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Sensory Design (Architecture)La Tríada de Wing y los vectores de la Electronalidad: hacia una nueva concepción sobre el Autismo.En este artículo aplicamos los vectores de la Teoría de la Electronalidad, planteados por Biondi y Zapata: perspectivismo del ello, asociaciones metonímicas y lógica yuxtapuesta, a la reflexión sobre el Autismo/Asperger. Se propone, una... moreEn este artículo aplicamos los vectores de la Teoría de la Electronalidad, planteados por Biondi y Zapata: perspectivismo del ello, asociaciones metonímicas y lógica yuxtapuesta, a la reflexión sobre el Autismo/Asperger. Se propone, una nueva mirada al diagnóstico y la conceptualización de esta condición.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ernesto Reaño•  4  Semiotics, Autism Spectrum Disorders, Linguistics, ElectronalidadKang-yi, Grinker, and Mandell. Korean Culture and Autism Spectrum Disorders. Journal of Autism and Developmental DisordersSave to LibraryDownloadby Roy Grinker•  2  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Autism Spectrum TreatmentPragmatic language deficits in high functioning autismSave to LibraryDownloadby Susanna Siu-sze Yeung•Autism Spectrum Disorders‘Wired up differently’: Autism, adolescence and the politics of neurological identitiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Suparna Choudhury and +1Francisco Ortega•  2  Child and adolescent mental health, Autism Spectrum DisordersRagionevolmente Differenti. Una riflessione antropologica su Sindrome di Asperger e Disturbo dello Spettro Autistico."Ragionevolmente Differenti è un libro che parla della produzione sociale della diversità e lo fa attraverso lo studio della sindrome di Asperger. L'Asperger è un disturbo nello spettro autistico i cui sintomi principali fanno riferimento... more"Ragionevolmente Differenti è un libro che parla della produzione sociale della diversità e lo fa attraverso lo studio della sindrome di Asperger. L'Asperger è un disturbo nello spettro autistico i cui sintomi principali fanno riferimento a interessi ristretti e ossessivi e concomitante presenza di un QI medio o superiore alla media. Spesso le persone che li manifestano vengono considerate alla stregua di nerd un po' bizzarri. Il libro presenta una ricca serie di rappresentazioni interne in cui sono gli stessi individui con Asperger e i loro familiari e amici a raccontare le proprie esperienze e a darne un senso. Ne emerge un'identità ambivalente, dei connotati spesso estremamente positivi, che può essere utilizzata e performata in maniera creativa e funzionale. Al tempo stesso si approfondisce il profondo processo di medicalizzazione di quei comportamenti che si posizionano al di fuori di un quadro culturale condiviso e che coinvolge diversi aspetti della realtà contemporanea.  Being different is not something one can do alone. The ability to recognize difference represents the core of our understanding; it serves as a method that helps us to experience the world we live in. In our cultural world some people are more different than others and psychiatrists tried to tell which differences really matter by settling them into categories described by the DSM (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder). Ragionevolmente Differenti (Reasonably Different) reflects on the creativeness of science, focusing on a peculiar condition which has become a diagnostic category: Asperger’s Syndrome. In recent years, this once obscure diagnosis, given to more than four times as many boys as girls, has become increasingly common. This increase could be analyzed from the point of view of a dynamic which tends to create a very desirable diagnosis rather than a less desirable one.Asperger's Syndrome (AS, also known as Asperger's Disorder) has been included in the DSM since 1994 (Forth edition), and is considered to be in the Autism Spectrum. It has seen a considerable increase in diagnoses in recent years. Meanwhile, the American Psychiatric Association is working on the next edition of the DSM (the fifth, due in May 2013) and a committee of experts has already taken the decision to eliminate Aspergers's Syndrome from the manual in order to subsume the diagnosis under a general category of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). AS is named after the Austrian paediatrician who first talked about a particular case history during the '40s. Hans Asperger described children who lacked nonverbal communication skills, demonstrated limited empathy with their peers, and were physically clumsy. As noted in autism, AS is characterized largely by an inability to interact socially and the presence of intense and specialized interests that can appear obsessive. Individuals diagnosed with AS tend to be isolated, engrossed in their activities, and have a limited social life. The main difference with regards to classical autism is the presence of an average or higher than average intelligence. IQ measurement, a widely problematic way to assess people, seems to be part of the diagnostic process. Among those diagnosed with AS there are individuals with very high IQ, which led some researchers to hypothesize that perhaps intellectuals such as Einstein, Newton or Wittgenstein could have fallen into this category because of their unusual behaviour. Clinical experts tend to analyze the peculiarity perceived in and performed by people with AS from a variety of perspectives, taking into consideration psychological, metabolic, genetic and neuroscientific theories. Whether seen as a contingent or inherent, issue the inability to follow a socially acceptable, normal behaviour is the common denominator used to depict these people. Basically, in clinical accounts, difference from what is taken to be the norm seems to be their main characteristic. On the other hand, people with AS tend to use the medical pluralistic scenario they live in to negotiate a less problematic identity for themselves while, at the same time, seeking treatments and useful assistance for an inclusive environment.In this way, the phenomenon shows its ambivalent aspects: it is known as a disability from the clinical point of view and as an original way of being in the world from an inner perspective. On the one hand, AS seems to be a diagnostic category which has strong implications for individual identity and perceived identity. On the other hand, AS is a category marked in the medical tradition as pathology defined by deviance from the norm, as opposed to conceptualized as individuals expressing complaints. All this ambivalence leads us to the consideration of the legislative frame of biomedicine, which is capable of drawing up a clinic framework from specific behaviour. In searching for major causes of AS even pollution and the whole western economic system is charged in order to explain the severe increase in AS and ASD rates, as if it were a sort of “disorder of civilization” embodied by those who cannot appreciate the hypocrisy of postmodernity. In situations where individual pathological behaviour is made to correspond metaphorically to a weakness or pathology in society itself, the care and cure of that behaviour corresponds also with eliminating the undesirable from society. This metaphorical relationship opens the door to the intellectual premise in which social differences, corresponding to established limits, must be considered pathological and therefore must be medicalized (Szasz 1961, Furedi 2005). It is easy to extrapolate from this position the complicated nature of certain contemporary and historical medical philosophies that mix discussions concerning pathology with morality and quality of life. This interactive dynamic contributes to creating an interplay between people who manifest problems and people who categorize manifestations of problems. According to Hacking, the perfect way to reify what is medicalized is (among other things) to make the behaviour an effect of biological and genetic causes. In fact, if we recognise biological causes for autism and AS (including neurology) people with AS will consequently be relieved of “responsibility” for their difference. If problematic behaviour is attributed to chemical imbalance, it ceases to be seen as “a moral defect”.Ragionevolmente Differenti (Reasonably Different) analyzes the category of Asperger's Syndrome from an anthropological perspective: what it is, why society recognizes it as a particular way of being, why it is seen as pathological, what are the historical and political frameworks which have led to it becoming a medical category, and what people with Asperger's think about it. The analysis is based upon two years of anthropological research with an Italian support group: Gruppo Asperger. In response to a sort of normalization dynamic, shown by biomedicine, many support groups run by people with Asperger's all around the world have stressed their identity issues, pointing out that AS is generally considered problematic particularly by those who do not have it. The concept of normality therefore emerges as relative to a given context, not as a natural state. They say that AS, contrarily to autism, is seen as something positive particularly thanks to the popular books and films on the subject, which have portrayed AS as a characteristic of weird nerds and savant-like geniuses. It is difficult to not see identity playing a major role in some of these dynamics. People with AS are even considered more desirable than others bysome of the parents running Gruppo Asperger, who claim to be proud of the frankness and candour of their sons and of their inability to lie. Ragionevolmente Differenti (Reasonably Different) discusses various aspects of the issue, not only a dynamic involving identitarian views but also economic and practical aspects such as the shaping of a plurality of situated medical realities and the thin boundary between scientific knowledge and self-determinism. In each chapter the analysis tries to focus on a main issue while taking into consideration a larger perspective. “Epidemics of heterodoxy” describes some practical and official aspects regarding Asperger’s and autism in Italy. Contextualizing a few key legislative bills, and their biopolitical horizon of meaning, it describes how science and politics merge themselves and emerge as a powerful tool to create realities. “Confessions of a meticulous mind” approaches AS from a subjective point of view. Narratives from people with AS provide the core of the chapter. It introduces the reader to adult people who have deliberately sought this diagnosis. At the same time  the reader encounters a young person revealing how he was feeling during the process of his diagnosis, and why some people apparently do not need to seek one. “Exceptions” is about another subjective point of view: that of parents and friends of people with AS. Even in this case, inner perspectives can be divergent and original in comparison with the classical clinical understandings. “Some people are more different than others” focuses on the phenomenon of self-diagnosis and the cultural construction of identity for those who describe themselves as “aspies”. Compared to the rest of the book, it is one of the most typically anthropological chapters. “Asperger's syndrome in theory and in practice” is about how AS has become thinkable as a diagnostic category, and why recently society seems to produce a few - extremely functional - scientific theories on the matter. Finally, in “The diseased devised”, the author presents her conclusive reflections on the research."Save to LibraryDownloadby Mirna Cola•  10  Genetics, Neuroscience, Medical Anthropology, Social and Cultural AnthropologyOtizm spektrum bozukluğu olan çocuklara sosyal beceri öğretiminde teknoloji destekli etkileşimli ortam tasarımı ve etkililiğiSave to LibraryDownloadby Sunagül SANİ BOZKURT•  4  Autism Spectrum Disorders, Assistive Technology, Interactive Digital Storytelling, Social StoryNextLast »Related TopicsAutism Spectrum TreatmentFollowFollowingAutismFollowFollowingDisability StudiesFollowFollowingAutism (Education)FollowFollowingCritical Disability StudiesFollowFollowingAutism and LanguageFollowFollowingAsperger's SyndromeFollowFollowingSpecial EducationFollowFollowingSocial CognitionFollowFollowingIntellectual & Developmental Disabilities and Autism Spectrum DisordersFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023