Cultural Tourism Promotion and policy in Malaysia
172 captures
24 Feb 2009 - 19 Oct 2022
Apr
MAY
May
29
2009
2010
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2010
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20100529013206/http://www.hbp.usm.my:80/tourism/Papers/paper_cultural.htm
BACK   
HOME
Cultural Tourism Promotion and policy in Malaysia
Associate
Professor Dr. Badaruddin Mohamed
School of Housing,
Building and Planning
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia
bada@usm.my
ABSTRACT
Like its Asean
neighbors, Malaysia too regards tourism as a very important sector that brings
the much-needed foreign exchange, new jobs and businesses. 
Heritage tourism, classified as a
subclass of cultural tourism by the World Tourism Organization,
has been identified and spelt out in the new Tourism Policy by the Tourism
Ministry as one of the new niche products to be developed extensively for the
next ten years.  Paralleled
with the growing interest in heritage tourism and the global influx of the
alternative tourists, tourist arrivals in the Malaysian heritage cities,
especially Penang and Malacca, have improved over the years. 
Despite this, the real potential of culture and heritage as tourism
resources is not fully realized.  They
are not well attended and only started to be appreciated.
KEYWORDS: 
heritage, culture, tourism, policy
INTRODUCTION
Malaysia is
experiencing a tremendous pace of tourism development. 
Tourism sector has been recognized by Malaysian government as a major
source of revenue and catalyst to the Malaysian economic renaissance. 
Tourist arrivals to Malaysia for the last ten
years have shown a significant rise (Table 1). 
In the year 2004, this country attracted 15.7
million foreign tourists generating around RM29.7 billion into the company.  Major tourist market for Malaysia has been the neighboring ASEAN nations
especially Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia and Brunei. 
Other main traditional foreign markets include China, Japan, Taiwan and
India.
Table 1: Tourist arrivals and receipts to Malaysia
Year
Arrivals (million)
Receipts (RM millions)
1995
7.46
9,174.9
1996
7.14
10,354.1
1997
6.21
9,699.6
1998
5.55
8,580.4
1999
7.93
12,321.3
2000
10.22
17,335.4
2001
12.78
24,221.5
2002
13.29
25,781.1
2003
10.58
21,291.1
2004
15.70
29,651.4
Source: Tourism Malaysia, 2005
Coupled with the
growth in tourism is a booming interest in the ‘new tourism’. 
Cultural tourism has emerged as a potential form of alternative tourism
among both international tourists as well as Malaysian domestic travelers. 
Cultural tourism in Malaysia attracted great publicities with the
increase in the number of incoming tourists annually. 
Malaysia has marvelous cultural tourism resources that are readily
available to be explored such as the existence of multi-cultural, historical
buildings, colorful lifestyles and friendly atmosphere.        
The purpose of this paper is to give an overview of the promotion of
culture and heritage in Malaysia as well as the related strategies and policies
that support the measure.  It also
discusses several underlying issues pertaining the cultural management in
Malaysia.
Defining Cultural Tourism
Culture in tourism is
an important issue.  The relationship
between tourism and culture can take many forms and the outcome can be viewed as
negative and positive when meeting of hosts and visitors occurs and possibly
leads to the transformation of the hosts’ culture. 
The destruction of local culture as a result of tourism is well
documented.  However, studies by
researchers’ consider this as a lopsided view of the impact of tourism. 
Studies have shown that tourism have lead to the strengthening of local
culture (Yamashita, Kadir and Eades : 1997).
Culture is defined
broadly as quoted in Meethan (2001:117),
“…..as a set of practices, based on forms of knowledge, which
encapsulate common values and act as general guiding principles. 
It is through these forms of knowledge that distinctions are created and
maintained, so that, for example, one culture is marked off as different from
another”
World Tourism
Organization (1985) defines cultural tourism as the movements of persons for
essentially cultural motivations such as study tours, performing arts and
cultural tours; travel to festivals and other related events. 
Essentially, cultural tourism is based on the mosaic of places,
traditions, art forms, celebrations and experiences that portray ones nation and
its people (National Assembly of State Arts Agencies, 2005).
Meethan (2001:128)
rightly observed that there are array of tourist activities that come under the
heading of cultural tourism.  However,
he argues for a distinct demarcation of cultural tourism and hence a distinct
profile of cultural tourists quotes,
 “….the cultural tourists
are those who go about their leisure in a more serious frame of mind. 
To be a cultural tourist…..is to go beyond idle leisure and to return
enriched with knowledge of other places and other people even if this involves
`gazing` at or collecting in some way, the commodified essences of otherness”
Studies of western
culture by Richard (1994) described the cultural tourists were ‘a
high socio-economic status, high level of educational attainment, adequate
leisure time, and often having occupations related to the culture industries’. 
It must be borne in mind that culture is not static but one that is
dynamic and evolving. Meethan (2001: 127) draw attention to globalization of
culture and also the mobilization of culture for internal and external purposes.
Yamashita, Kadir and Eades (1997: 29-30) further illustrates the processes that
transform culture.
           
Heritage tourism can be classified as a subclass of cultural tourism.
Both cultural and heritage tourism become a growing segment of the tourism
marketplace. Cultural tourists appear to be motivated for different reasons than
do traditional tourists. Some tourism destinations see cultural tourism as a
promotion for tourism products, and this has been lamented. Millar (1989) and
others (Hardy, 1988; Tighe, 1986) suggest that heritage tourism is "about
the cultural traditions, places and values that ... groups throughout the world
are proud to conserve." Cultural traditions such as family patterns,
religious practices, folklore traditions, and social customs attract individuals
interested in heritage (Collins, 1983; Weiler & Hall, 1992) as do monuments,
museums, battlefields, historic structures, and landmarks (Konrad, 1982;
McNulty, 1991).
CULTURAL TOURISM IN MALAYSIA
AND ITS MANAGEMENT
In Malaysia, heritage
and culture has also been identified as new niche products to be developed
extensively in tourism development.  Cultural
vibrancy is clearly manifested in the ongoing and successful “Malaysia: Truly
Asia” promotional drive by the country’s promotion arm, Tourism Malaysia. 
In this promotion, Malaysia boasts to host a wide variety of Asian ethnic
groups that making it into a little Asia. Malaysia
also has distinctive multicultural architectural heritage with strong Islamic,
Chinese and Western influences; all of which have been portrayed in the heritage
buildings. 
           
The major heritage elements; historic building, historical sites and
unique local cultures are commonly found in many historic cities throughout
Malaysia. An inventory has revealed that 30,000 heritage buildings are located
in 162 cities throughout Malaysia (Idid, 1996). From this figure, 69.6% are shop
houses and dwellings built before World War II (Table 2). The unique colonial
architectural styles of buildings have played major role in the creation of
historic cities such as George Town, Ipoh, Malacca, Taiping, Kuala Lumpur and
Kuching. 
Table 2 Distributions of Pre-War Buildings in Selected States in Malaysia
States in
Malaysia
Number of Pre-War
    Buildings
Percentage
    (%)
Penang
Perak
Johor
Malacca
Kuala Lumpur
5057
3351
2323
2177
1763
24.3
16.1
11.2
10.5
8.4
The management of
culture and heritage in Malaysia was put under the Ministry of Tourism and
Culture, established on the 20th of May 1987, combining Department of
Culture from the Ministry of Culture, Youths and Sports with the Malaysian
Tourism Development Corporation from the Ministry of Trade and Industries. 
On 22nd October 1992, the ministry was renamed into Ministry
of Culture, Arts and Tourism.  This
ministry was later divided in Mac 2004, into two ministries, namely the Tourism
Ministry and Ministry of Culture, Arts and Heritage. 
This separation is seen as recognition of tourism as a potential number
one sector of the country and a move to appreciate the value of heritage of the
country.  Agencies under this
ministry are the National Archives, the National Art and Gallery, the Department
of Museum and Antiquities, Malaysian Handicrafts (Kraftangan Malaysia), the
National Film Development Corporation (Finas), the National Art Academy, the
National Library and the Istana Budaya (the Culture Palace). 
Despite the move to strengthen the ministries, the separation of the
cultural elements from the Tourism Ministry can give impacts on the direction of
‘cultural and heritage tourism’, leaving this niche area as an no-man’s
land!
THE FORMULATION OF NATIONAL
CULTURAL POLICY 
At a national
conference organized by Malaysia’s Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports in
1971, the Malaysian government formulated what was to become a national cultural
policy based on the following principles:
     
i).           
The national culture of
Malaysia must henceforth be based on the cultures of the people indigenous to
the region
    
ii).           
Elements from other cultures
which are judged suitable and reasonable may be incorporated into Malaysia’s
national culture
  
iii).           
Islam will be an important
element in the national culture
In the period since
its implementation, Malaysia’s national culture policy has become one
important point of vigorous debate and political conflict. 
In the years since the formulation of a National Cultural Policy, and
particularly in the late 1980’s, the Malaysian government has been concerned
to implement its basic principles by intervening directly and across the board
in the cultural field.  Not
surprisingly, and perhaps because it has not been altogether clear and efficient
about its task, government intervention in the cultural field has produced a
response on the part of a variety of non-Malay groups who feel that their
cultural freedom has been curtailed.  For
example, at a meeting of the Chinese guild and associations of Malaysia held in
March, 1983, delegates passed a series of resolutions that were compiled in a
joint memorandum to the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports. 
In April 1984, a group of the best-known Indian cultural, social and
religious organizations submitted a similar memorandum. 
Both memoranda accused the government of having formulated a cultural
policy which was Malay-centric and undemocratic, and requested that a new policy
on national culture be established which was more clearly multi-ethnic and
democratic (Kahn & Loh, 1992).
LAW AND LEGISLATIONS ON CULTURAL AND HERITAGE
PROPERTIES
The legal foundations
of the Malaysian cultural policy are derived from the following acts and
regulations:
     
i).           
Antiquities Act 1976 (Act
168)
    
ii).           
National Art Gallery Act, 1958
  
iii).           
Legal Deposit of Library
Material Act, 1986 (Act A667)
  
iv).           
National Library Act, 1972;
The National Library (Amendment) Act, 1987
   
v).           
National Archive Act, 1966
(Act 44), (Revised 1971), (Act A85), (Revised 1993), (Act 511)
  
vi).           
Tourist Development
Corporation of Malaysia Act 1972 (Act 1972)
 vii).           
Broadcasting Act 1988 (Act
338), Broadcasting (Amendment) Act, 1997 (Act A977)
viii).           
Cinematography Film - Hire
Duty Act 1965 (Revised 1990), (Act 434)
  
ix).           
(Perbadanan Kemajuan Filem
Nasional Malaysia Act 1981 (Act 244), Perbadanan Kemajuan Filem Nasional
Malaysia (Amendment) Act, 1984 (Act 589)
   
x).           
Perbadanan Kemajuan Kraftangan
Malaysia Act 1979 (Act 222)
  
xi).           
Theatres & Places of
Public Amusement (Federal Territory) Act 1988 (Act 182)
 xii).           
Bernama Act, 1967 (Revised
1990), (Act 449)
xiii).           
Entertainment Duty Act 1953
(Revised 1973) (Act 103)
           
Efforts to preserve the heritage buildings in Malaysia are supported by
various acts and legislations.  The
prominent acts have been the Town and Country Planning Act of 1976 or the 172
Act, The National Land Code (Kanun Tanah Negara), the Street, Drainage and
Building Act 133, the Antiquities Act 1976 , as well as local legislations such
as the Malacca Enactment No. 6 (1988).  Act
133 for instance stipulates that “No person shall erect any building without a
prior written permission of the local authority” (Section 70[1]). 
This provision is supported by Section 18(1) of Act 172 which states
“All land/building use shall comply with the local plans (structure and local
plans).  Any development shall obtain
planning permission (Section 21).  And
if there is no development plan prepared for the area, the owner/developer of
the land shall inform their plan to the adjoining landowners (Act 172, Section
21 (6)).
           
To date, a guidelines on the Guidelines on the Conservation of George
Town Inner City details out specific recommendations pertaining extensions,
renovations, revitalizations of heritage buildings within the prescribed zones. 
At present, any erection of buildings is loosely bonded by both Acts (133
and 172).  Section 16 of 133 defines 
erections of building includes ‘renews or repairs of any existing
buildings in such a manner as to involve a renewal, reconstruction or erection
of any portion of an outer or party wall to the extent of one storey height”. 
Further, all building that fall within the definition of development,
stipulated in Act 172 also requires planning permission.
           
The Guidelines is in concordant with Part Vll of Act 133 that gives the
State Authority to make by-laws or in respect of every purpose which is deemed
by him necessary.  In regards to the
preservation of buildings, the State Authority, among other things, has the
right to make by laws in:-
     
i).           
the construction, paving, width and level of arcades
and footways;
    
ii).           
the construction, alteration and demolition of
buildings and the methods and materials to be used in connection therewith;
  
iii).           
the minimum timber or other building material
content in any building.
ISSUES
The promotion of
culture and heritage in Malaysia faces several underlying issues that both are
related to the complexity of the society living in Malaysia. 
Among the issues are:-
i. 
Whose culture?
Despite the fact that
Malaysia is proud of its multiculturalism, promoted worldwide as the ‘Truly
Asia’, the question remains on whose culture should be promoted at the
forefront.  As discussed above,
Chinese and Indians have continuously felt that their cultures are not well
represented in the tourism brochures produced by the government. 
Similar sentiment was raised up during the nomination process for the
listing of Penang and Melaka into the world heritage city. 
Malays in 
Penang
 especially feel that the listing do not benefit them and the island’s Malay
history is not taken into consideration.  Some
also feel that the listing of the 12000 heritage buildings where many of them
are colonial buildings—is just another post colonialization of the country,
lamented on why we have to glorify the colonial past! 
ii. 
Authentic versus Staged Culture
Tourism has evolved
to become a significant factor in the development of culture in two ways: as a
support and as a threat.  The
converse is also possible – culture can support or inhibit the growth of
tourism.  In the Malaysian context,
there has so far been no specific attempt to study the value of cultural
attractions from the point of view of the tourists. 
Tourism authorities and promotional consultants simply assume that the
cultural elements of a plural society are attractive. 
Further questions can be raised as to whether it is the ‘staged
culture’ or the ‘street culture’ that is more appealing to outsiders. 
According to Kadir Din (1997), ‘street culture’ depicts the scenes of
everyday life that can be readily observed by tourists in their natural setting,
as opposed to ‘staged culture’ which refers to contrived staged
presentations, which are specifically prepared for the tourist. 
He concludes that in terms of government allocations of funds for
tourism, and of coverage by the promotional media, there seems to be a belief
that staged culture contributes more to tourism than street culture. 
To complicate things, as mentioned above, the nomination of Penang and
Melaka includes the conservation of cultural elements of the society. 
However, with so much pressure and development that have taken place, one
may wonder how this society can conserve its cultural elements to remain
authentic.  Or perhaps, one may also
wonder whether what is left is still authentic? 
A similar comment can be made on the staging of the massive festival of
‘Citrawarna’—a cultural parade of various ethnic groups in Malaysia. 
Perhaps copying the success of the Samba Festival in Brazil or the New
Orleans Parade or perhaps the Gion Matsuri (festival) in Kyoto Japan, the
Citrawarna Malaysia has a lot of colors but lack authenticity and also history!
Concluding Remarks
Malaysia starts to realize the value and the
importance of culture and heritage tourism when more and more tourists coming to
this country to visit the cultural heritage. 
Having a long associations with the past colonisers like the Britain, 
Japan, and Portugal, Malaysia does have attractive and diversified
cultural products that can be attractive.  The
promotion of culture and heritage, however is rather new. 
To date, Malaysia only has two natural world heritage sites in Gunung
Mulu National Park and the Kinabalu Park.  It
yet to have a site that is listed under the world’s cultural sites. 
To movement to appreciate and to manage culture and heritage in Malaysia
gaining momentum however with establishment of the culture ministry. 
It is interesting though, to see how heritage tourism and cultural
tourism being managed by both ministries. 
REFERENCE
Collins, R. (1983). Tourism and heritage conservation-The Pacific
experience. Heritage Australia, 2(2), 58-59.
Hardy, D. (1988). Historical geography and heritage studies. Area, 20,
333-338.
Idid, S.Z.A. (1996). Conservation of the Heritage Cityscape (in Malay),
Kuala Lumpur: Malaysia Heritage Trust.
Kahn,
Joel.S and Loh, K.W. (1992),(eds.) Fragmented Vision – Culture and Politics in
Contemporary Malaysia, Allen & Unwin, Sydney.
Konrad, V. (1982) Historical artifacts as recreational resources. In G.
Wall & J. Marsh (Eds.), Recreational land use: Perspectives on its evolution
in Canada, (pp. 392-416). Ottawa: Carleton University Press.
Korean
National Commission for UNESCO (2005) Asia-Pacific Regional Centre of the
Culturelink Network (APRCCN). Retrieved from http://www.culturelink.or.kr/policy_malaysia.html
McNulty, R. (1991). Cultural tourism: New opportunities for wedding
conservation to economic development. In Conservation and tourism: Second
international congress on architectural conservation and town planning, (pp.
34-41). London: Heritage Trust.
Meethan,
K. (2001). Tourism in Global Society : Place, Culture and Consumption, Palgrave.
Millar, S. (1989). Heritage management for heritage
tourism. Tourism Management, 10(3), 9-14.
National Assembly of State Arts Agencies (2005) Cultural Tourism Defined. Retrieved from
http://www.nasaa-arts.org/artworks/cultour.shtml
Richards,G.
(1994) Development in European Culture
Tourism, in Seaton, A.V. et.al., Tourism: The State of The Art, John Wiley
& Sons, New York
Tighe, A. (1986). The arts/tourism partnership. Journal of Travel
Research, 24, 2-5
Weiler, B., & Hall, C. (1992). Special interest tourism. London:
Belhaven Press.
WTO-World Tourism Organization (1985) The States’ Role in Protecting
and Promoting Culture as a Factor of Tourism Development and the Proper Use and
Exploitation of the National Cultural Heritage of Sites and Monuments for
Tourists. Madrid, Spain: 
World Tourism Organization.
Yamashita,
S. Kadir H. D. & Eades, J.S. (1997) Tourism and Cultural development In Asia
and Oceania.  University National
Malaysia, Bangi