About – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
AboutWe share a commitment to free knowledge and work together with our community.The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit that hosts Wikipedia and our other free knowledge projects. We want to make it easier for everyone to share what they know. To do this, we keep Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites fast, reliable, and available to all. We protect the values and policies that allow free knowledge to thrive. We build new features and tools to make it easy to read, edit, and share from the Wikimedia sites. Above all, we support the communities of volunteers around the world who edit, improve, and add knowledge across Wikimedia projects.
Meet our staff and contractorsMore than 700 staff and contractors support Wikimedia projects, communities, donors, and readers.
Work with usWe are taking on a huge challenge: free knowledge for all. View open positions and learn about working for the Foundation.
Meet our leadershipThe Wikimedia Foundation executive team oversees departments, internal teams, and staff.
Meet our Board of TrusteesThe Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees oversees our work. The Board is the Foundation’s ultimate corporate authority.
View our financialsWe publish detailed financial reports that include audited financial statements and budgets.
The Wikimedia Foundation missionTo empower and engage people around the world to collect and develop educational content under a free license or in the public domain, and to disseminate it effectively and globally.
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
90+ million
media files on Wikimedia Commons, the free media repository
Tweet this
1.7 billion
unique devices visit Wikimedia Foundation sites every month
Tweet this
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
 
 
Wikimania 2023 in Singapore centers on diversity, collaboration, and the future of free knowledge
Events Press Release Singapore Wikimania 
In its eighteenth edition, Wikimania, the flagship annual conference that celebrates Wikimedia projects like Wikipedia and the volunteers who make them possible, is set to take place in Singapore.
10 August 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
For third time, China blocks Wikimedia Foundation as permanent observer to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
Advocacy Press Release 
The Wikimedia Foundation was rejected for the third time from gaining accreditation as a permanent observer to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).
7 July 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
Annual plansView what we plan to accomplish this year and next. Each annual plan begins on 1 July and concludes on 30 June of the following year.
Fundraising reportsAnnual fundraising reports offer a transparent view of our fundraising operations, successes, and future plans.
GrantsGrants support impact-driven individuals, groups, and organizations whose efforts support our free knowledge mission.
Movement affiliatesWikimedia movement affiliates support work focused on a specific theme, topic, or subject within or across countries and regions.
Annual reportsYears of annual reports cover the activities and impact of the Foundation.
PoliciesSee all official policies of the Wikimedia Foundation, including those for our wiki-related projects, Board, and staff.
Transparency reportsTwice a year, the Wikimedia Foundation reports on requests received to alter or remove content from Wikimedia projects, and to provide nonpublic information about users.
Photo credits
 
Wikimania 2023 Singapore Banner
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Illustrated by Adien Gunarta and Naila Rahmah
CC0 1.0
 
WIPO Headquarters
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Emmanuel Berrod
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia Foundation All Hands 2018 - Myleen Hollero 07
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Myleen Hollero / Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Wikimedia Foundation All Hands 2018 - Myleen Hollero 59
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Myleen Hollero / Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Wikimedia Foundation All Hands 2018 - Myleen Hollero 32
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Myleen Hollero / Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
PikiWiki Israel 34174 Archeological sites of Israel
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
udi Steinwell
Public domain
 
Wikimania 2018 by Samat 110
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Samat
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia Conference 2017 by René_Zieger – 180
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
René Zieger for Wikimedia Deutschland e.V.
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Blue Marble Western Hemisphere
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
NASA images by Reto Stöckli
Public domain
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.