Figurines Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Figurines123 FollowersRecent papers in FigurinesTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleMarthari, M. 2017. Early Cycladic sculptures as archaeological objectsIt was a February afternoon in 2009, in the prehistoric antiquities room of the Archaeological Museum of Naxos, when I first talked with Colin Renfrew about the publication of all the Early Cycladic figurines found in excavations. Our... moreIt was a February afternoon in 2009, in the prehistoricantiquities room of the Archaeological Museum of Naxos,when I first talked with Colin Renfrew about the publicationof all the Early Cycladic figurines found in excavations.Our conversation took place among the cases in whichthe antiquities from Keros, and all the large figurinesfrom Aplomata, Phiondas, and other sites are exhibited.Renfrew, as the excavator of Keros, where a large numberof marble figurine fragments and vases have been recentlyfound, wanted to look for comparanda in the excavatedmaterial. The author, as the then Ephor of the Ephorateof Antiquities for the Cyclades but also the excavator ofSkarkos, wished to see all the excavated material published.Thus we joined forces and after a long collaboration ourefforts materialized in the form of a symposium entitledEarly Cycladic Sculpture in Context, held at the AthensArchaeological Society on 27–29 May 2014. The results of this symposium are presented here.The current volume aims to publish a very importantclass of material, partly unknown to scholarship. At thesame time, it constitutes a break from the usual way oftreating and publishing Early Cycladic sculptures...Save to LibraryDownloadby Marisa Marthari•  27  Mediterranean prehistory, Aegean Bronze Age (Bronze Age Archaeology), Prehistoric Settlement, Death and Burial (Archaeology)Isotopes and Images: Fleshing out Bodies at Catalhoyuk2013. With Jessica Pearson. In the Journal of Archaeological Theory and Method, 20/3: 1-22. For 20 years, archaeological approaches to the body have tended to focus upon evidence confined to specific areas of expertise. Such scholarly... more2013. With Jessica Pearson. In the Journal of Archaeological Theory and Method, 20/3: 1-22.For 20 years, archaeological approaches to the body have tended to focus uponevidence confined to specific areas of expertise. Such scholarly separations are understandabledue to archaeological specialisations in osteology or figurines, burial practices orstable isotope ratios. Here, we provide a multi-stranded data analysis of the archaeologicalbody at Çatalhöyük using data from stable isotope analysis, physical anthropology, figuralrepresentation and the burial assemblage. Using these diverse datasets dialectically, wesuggest that our analysis offers more rigorous perspectives on ancient bodies and embodimentand that our interpretations are reinforced by the variation and scale of evidenceemployed. Recent research at Çatalhöyük underscores a general lack of gender differentiationin health, lifestyle and diet but does provide evidence for age differentiation. Forexample, the isotope data reveal that younger adults consumed different foods than olderadults. This pattern accords well with a particular attention to age in the burial assemblage;older individuals accrued the most diverse and biographical burial assemblages. Newstudies of anthropomorphic figurines from the site reveal an emphasis on depicting fleshy,aging, non-gendered bodies that might signify a concern with old age and survival thatserves to challenge older notions of a Mother Goddess cult. We suggest that theÇatalhöyük inhabitants attached a specific significance to flesh in their material world,which they used to signify age and maturity, and that this challenges older notions aboutmatriarchy, gender hierarchies and the privileging of female fertility.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lynn Meskell and +1Jessica Pearson•  8  Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, Stable Isotope Analysis, Archaeological Method & TheoryC. Renfrew, M. Marthari and M. Boyd 2016. The curse of looting: the scourge of Cycladic archaeology.Context is paramount. It is only when scientifically conducted excavations recover archaeological materials in their stratigraphic context that valid inferences can be made about the circumstances in which they were buried, about their... moreContext is paramount. It is only when scientifically conducted excavations recover archaeological materials in their stratigraphic context that valid inferences can be made about the circumstances in which they were buried, about their chronology and about their function.Unfortunately, however, most of the marble Early Cycladic figurines and vessels, and many other Early Cycladic atrefacts, now kept or exhibited in the world’s museums apart from the state museums of Greece (as well as nearly all those in private collections) are the product of clandestine excavations. Their findspots are unknown. The circumstances of their discovery are lost: in what circumstances they were found, with what materials they were associated at the time of their discovery are not recorded. Consequently they can add little to our knowledge and understanding of the distant Cycladic past. The looting of Cycladic antiquities represents a tragic loss of knowledge.      The looting of the Early Cycladic cemeteries and the subsequent sale of their grave goods, marble figurines in particular, is an aspect of illicit activity which has had a continuous presence in the Cyclades since at least the late 18th century. The need of the great museums in Western Europe to form their collections resulted in the quest for art treasures in Greece. Along with the remains of the classical Greek world other antiquities, including Cycladic marble figurines, although sometimes described as ‘barbarian’ or ‘ugly’, were most welcome.  Early Cycladic sculpture was not greatly esteemed until the early twentieth century. Then, however, the modernist movements, as represented by such sculptors as Picasso, Braque, Brancusi, and Giacometti, created a new aesthetic, in which the striking simplicity of Cycladic sculpture came to be greatly appreciated. From that time these sculptures were no longer regarded as mere curiosities, but as works of art, and began to be priced accordingly. It has, indeed, been argued by Colin Renfrew that all Early Cycladic sculptures of unknown origin, and therefore lacking secure context, which have emerged on the market after the early 20th century, more specifically after the year 1914, should be regarded as of doubtful authenticity. Since that time it is clear that numerous replicas have been produced with the intention to deceive.     Ιt was in Paris in the year 1970 that the UNESCO Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property was adopted. Although it was not ratified at once by all the participating nations, it has now been very widely ratified and accepted and establishes a number of fundamental principles.     The world’s major museums, guided by the International Council of Museums (ICOM), have now gradually adopted ethical acquisition policies, but some still do not enforce them with rigour. One might have hoped that in the light of the apparent reform in museum ethics, this perspective would be communicated to private collectors, and that demand for unprovenanced Early Cycladic sculpture on the open market would recede. However such is not the case. Auction houses widely considered respectable continue to offer for sale Cycladic antiquities which certainly have no collecting history extending back as far as 1970. The implication must certainly be that these are illicit antiquities, illegally excavated. When the public sale of illicit antiquities continues in auction houses in London and New York it is clear that the battle against looting is not yet won. Nevertheless, if museums and private collectors would refrain from acquiring any Early Cycladic material which has come to light since 1970, the year of the UNESCO Convention, ongoing looting might be diminished.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marisa Marthari and +1Michael Boyd•  20  Mediterranean prehistory, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Aegean Bronze Age (Bronze Age Archaeology), Greek ArchaeologyThe Emperor's New Clothes: Textiles, Gender and Mesopotamian Foundation FigurinesThis paper concentrates on two groups of Mesopotamian foundation figurines bearing textile remains and impressions, one found at Tello (ancient Girsu), the other at Nippur (ca. 2100–2000 BCE). Addressing this material from the perspective... moreThis paper concentrates on two groups of Mesopotamian foundation figurines bearing textile remains and impressions, one found at Tello (ancient Girsu), the other at Nippur (ca. 2100–2000 BCE). Addressing this material from the perspective of gender studies, two main topics are analysed. On the one hand, some aspects related to the production and consumption of the textiles adhering to some of the foundation figurines are addressed, as these facets are not usually mentioned when foundation deposits are analysed. On the other hand, the possible masculine or feminine identities of the figurines are considered. The article concludes with a discussion of the visibility of women’s work and the influence of Western gender preconceptions in the analysis of the archaeological record, particularly when considering foundation figurines.Save to LibraryDownloadby Agnès Garcia-Ventura•  3  Gender Studies, Textiles, FigurinesLos Ídolos de Las Islas Prometidas: Arqueología Prehispánica del Archipiélago de Los Roques by Maria Magdalena Antczak & Andrzej T. Antczak,  2006English Summary: This remarkable book is the fruit of 30 years of investigations of two archaeologists, husband and wife, Maria Magdalena and Andrzej Antczak, on the pre-Hispanic archaeology of the majestic Los Roques Archipelago,... moreEnglish Summary: This remarkable book is the fruit of 30 years of investigations of two archaeologists, husband and wife, Maria Magdalena and Andrzej Antczak, on the pre-Hispanic archaeology of the majestic Los Roques Archipelago, Venezuela. The uniqueness of the Los Roques Archipelago within the panorama of insular pre-colonial archaeology in the Americas centers on the discovery of more than 400 human clay figurines on one small island, Dos Mosquises, along with elaborate primary ritual contexts and the remains of a gargantuan queen conch (lobatus gigas) exploitation enterprise. This book is the winner of two of the highest scientific publication awards in Venezuela (2006 & 2009).Resumen en Español:Desde el título de este volumen de indiscutible valor, la palabra “prometidas” aplica oportunamente a nuestro maravilloso archipiélago venezolano de Los Roques la alegoría bíblica que coloca al final de un exigente camino hermosas tierras, donde corren ríos de leche y miel. Hacia estas islas con abundantes recursos marinos, entre los cuales destaca el gran caracol marino llamado ‘botuto’, se dirigían las canoas indígenas durante al menos cuatro siglos antes de la conquista europea. Las campañas de explotación de los recursos en las islas dependían del éxito de la actividad ceremonial, testimoniada por centenares de figurinas humanas, incensarios, ocarinas y pipas cerámicas, flautas de hueso y silbatos de concha, recuperados por los arqueólogos en complejos contextos primarios.La presencia de esta diversidad de objetos en los campamentos temporales de las pequeñas islas oceánicas es un fenómeno excepcional en la arqueología del Caribe. En este sentido, la publicación de esta monografía es el cumplimiento de un prolongado esfuerzo y de un caro anhelo por proporcionar al lector una explicación sólida y coherente de este fenómeno arqueológico único. Es también el final de una importante etapa de ese camino verdaderamente exigente de la investigación arqueológica. A través de sus páginas, con un soporte teórico documental de inusual solidez y pertinencia, se difunde el fruto de muchos años de perseverante dedicación para sus autores, María Magdalena Mackowiak de Antczak y Andrzej Antczak, arqueólogos y antropólogos vinculados desde hace tiempo con la Universidad Simón Bolívar.Se trata, sin duda, de una obra mayor, enriquecida por 1500 ilustraciones y más de 200 tablas, que describe hallazgos arqueológicos excepcionales recuperados de manera sistemática durante más de 60 campañas de trabajo de campo, y desarrolla propuestas verdaderamente seminales para el entendimiento del significado y la valoración del legado prehispánico en Venezuela y, en especial, en sus territorios insulares.Este volumen ha sido concebido no solamente como lectura referencial para profesionales y estudiantes de arqueología y antropología, sino también esta dirigido al lector no especializado que puede sentirse atraído por el vibrante, colorido y desconocido pasado prehispánico presentado en estas páginas. También, a través de esta monografía los autores aspiran a infundir El Orgullo por el Pasado, el lema que orienta sus trabajos de investigación y docencia.Este vasto y complejo proyecto editorial ha sido posible gracias a la concertación de un gran equipo profesional y una venturosa alianza de nuestra Universidad con Banesco y Petrozuata, confluencias que celebramos también como promesas felizmente cumplidas.El libro ha recibido numerosos premios nacionales incluyendo:IV Premio Nacional del Libro 2006, Mejor Libro Científico otorgado por el Ministerio del Poder Popular para la Cultura.2009 Premio Alterno por Mejor Investigación en Ciencias Sociales, otorgado por la ASOVAC (Asociación Venezolana para el Avance de la Ciencia).2007 Premio Andrés Bello para la Mejor Investigación en Ciencias Sociales otorgado por la Universidad Simón Bolívar.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrzej & Maria Magdalena  Antczak•  78  Ethnohistory, Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, ZooarchaeologyProfane illuminations Classic Maya molded figurines in comparative contextSave to LibraryDownloadby Christina Halperin•  9  Mesoamerican Archaeology, Maya Archaeology, Maya Art, Figurines(2013) Archaeological investigation of the North Group at Pacbitun, Belize: The function, status, and chronology of an ancient Maya epicenter residential groupThis thesis reports on the 2010 excavations of the North Group and Eastern Court at the ancient Lowland Maya site of Pacbitun. It provides a construction history of the architecture and an analysis of associated artifacts, burials, and... moreThis thesis reports on the 2010 excavations of the North Group and Eastern Court at the ancient Lowland Maya site of Pacbitun. It provides a construction history of the architecture and an analysis of associated artifacts, burials, and caches. The archaeological investigations demonstrate that the seven structures (Strs. 34-40) of this restricted access plazuela group were built in the Early Classic period, and renewed in the Late Classic period. Based on analyses of artifacts (ceramics and lithics), skeletal and faunal remains, and intra- and inter-site comparisons, the North Group functioned as a secondary elite domestic residential group. Reconstruction suggests that the inhabitants here were not commoners; instead, the occupants probably were related to the ruling elite of Pacbitun. Some of the evidence includes the central location and elevation of the North Group, the presence of red painted plaster surfacing, a burial with multiple ceramic musical instruments, and multiple dedicatory caches with exotic goods (e.g., marine shell, jadeite, "Charlie Chaplin" figures).Save to LibraryDownloadby Kong F Cheong•  103  History, Ancient History, Latin American Studies, Archaeology"Montelirio. Exceptional Copper Age Burial Rites in an Iberian Tomb""The megalithic tomb at Montelirio is off the scale in more ways than one. As well as being the largest example of its type known in Spain, the burial goods secreted in its subterranean chambers are unsurpassed in both quantity and... more"The megalithic tomb at Montelirio is off the scale in more ways than one. As well as being the largest example of its type known in Spain, the burial goods secreted in its subterranean chambers are unsurpassed in both quantity and quality. Leonardo García Sanjuán reveals what the dead of Montelirio can tell us about Copper Age society."Save to LibraryDownloadby Leonardo García Sanjuán•  116  Religion, Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Art HistoryLA MODA FEMENINA EN LA ESPAÑA DEL SIGLO XIXSave to LibraryDownloadby Jaime  Márquez Morant•  24  Figurines, Moda, Historia, FilmsMiddle Kingdom Hippopotamus FigurinesThere are thought to be at least 60 Middle Kingdom faience hippopotamus figurines from ancient Egypt.  The bodies are decorated with lotus flowers and leaves and sometimes with frogs, birds and butterflies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Diane Leeman•  5  Figurines, Hippopotamus, Grave Goods, Egyptian Faience GlazingEgyptianizing Figurines from Delos: A Study in Hellenistic ReligionThe present study investigates questions of religious syncretism and household cult through an interdisciplinary study of terracotta figurines of Egyptian deities found at Delos, an important Hellenistic Greek port of trade. A comparison... moreThe present study investigates questions of religious syncretism and household cult through an interdisciplinary study of terracotta figurines of Egyptian deities found at Delos, an important Hellenistic Greek port of trade. A comparison of the figurines’ iconography to parallels in Egyptian religious texts, temple reliefs, and ritual objects reveals that many of the figurines depict deities or rituals associated with the festival of the Inundation. Furthermore, an analysis of the figurines’ clay fabrics and manufacturing techniques suggests that the vast majority of the Egyptianizing terracottas on Delos were locally made, so the figurines’ allusions to Egyptian religion accurately reflect the theological knowledge of craftsmen on Delos. Finally, the use of unpublished excavation notes from the late 19th and early 20th centuries enables a reconstruction of the figurines’ previously-lost archaeological contexts, shedding light on their roles and significance in both domestic and temple cults. This monograph investigates the spread of Egyptian religion into the Greek world through an interdisciplinary study of the iconography, archaeological contexts, clay fabric, and manufacturing techniques of terracotta figurines of Egyptian deities found at the important Hellenistic Greek trading port of Delos. Extant studies of Hellenistic terracotta figurines often take an art-historical approach, rather than considering the webs of social relations and practices surrounding these artifacts. However, when examined in their proper archaeological context, these figurines can shed light on many issues important to anthropologists as well as Classicists and Egyptologists. In particular, the presence of themes from so-called “official” religion in mass-produced, widely accessible objects such as terracotta figurines suggests a closer, more complex relationship between “popular” and “official” cults than is often acknowledged.Save to LibraryDownloadby Caitlín E. Barrett•  52  Ancient Egyptian Religion, Ancient History, Classical Archaeology, Egyptology“Predynastic Female Figurines: A Re-appraisal of the El-Ma’mariya Corpus” " A group of terracotta female figurines of an unusual style were discovered by Henri De Morgan during an excavation of an ancient Egyptian Predynastic cemetery at El-Ma’mariya in 1908 and dated to the late Naqada I or early Naqada II... more"  A group of terracotta female figurines of an unusual style were discovered by Henri De Morgan during an excavation of an ancient Egyptian Predynastic cemetery at El-Ma’mariya in 1908 and dated to the late Naqada I or early Naqada II period. Among these figurines is the well-known and widely published ‘bird lady’ figurine, now located on display at the Brooklyn Museum, New York. Its arms are raised in a graceful arc upwards – a body pose unique to excavated Predynastic figurines that has nonetheless appeared on Predynastic painted pottery and rock art. Many interpretations have been put forward addressing this specific arm position and its significance to Predynastic culture and religion. The El-Ma’mariya raised arm figurine always features prominently in such interpretations and theories, yet not much has been said of its origins, and there has been no discussion of the rest of the figurine collection unearthed by De Morgan.    The aim of this paper is to discuss the excavation and context of the El-Ma’mariya group of figurines and utilize comparative material, such as Predynastic painted pottery. The paper will then critically examine the various interpretations that have been proposed of the raised arm figurines and consider the significance of depictions of figures with raised arms as opposed to other arm positions and gestures that have appeared elsewhere in Predynastic sculpture and art. The final aim of this paper is to raise awareness of the exaggerated focus on raised arms in Predynastic studies and to bring attention to other, less acknowledged depictions that appear to be just as significant in Predynastic art, but which have not been given much attention. "Save to LibraryDownloadby Iryna Sharp•  9  Death and Burial (Archaeology), Burial Practices (Archaeology), Predynastic and Early Dynastic Egypt, FigurinesEarly Bronze Age Metallurgy At Murat Höyük, Eastern Anatolia: Archaeometrical Assessments of a Figurine and a Metal ToolMurat Höyük lies on the bank of the Murat River in Solhan district of Bingöl province in Eastern Anatolia. This study presents archaeometrical analyses of a unique metal figurine and a metal tool recovered in situ during the 2019 Murat... moreMurat Höyük lies on the bank of the Murat River in Solhan district of Bingöl province in Eastern Anatolia. This studypresents archaeometrical analyses of a unique metal figurine and a metal tool recovered in situ during the 2019 MuratHöyük Excavations, the first systematic archaeological excavation project in Bingöl. Four cultural layers (Medieval,Middle Iron, Early Iron, and Early Bronze Age) were documented at the site, where the earliest settlement is dated tothe EBA III (2500-2200 BC). The metal figurine and tool were found in this earliest phase (IV), where stone mouldfragments and a crucible were also found in associated contexts. Portable XRF (p-XRF) analyses performed onthe figurine, and p-XRF and metallography analyses conducted on the copper tool revealed that metals used in themanufacture of these artefacts were smelted from different polymetallic copper ores. Additionally, production processof the objects was examined in this study. A holistic evaluation of finds related with metallurgy at Murat Höyükreflects cultural affiliation with the Upper Euphrates Basin in terms of material choice and production technology.The present study on Murat Höyük metal finds provide new insight into Early Bronze Age metallurgy, belief systems,and art in Eastern Anatolia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ümit Güder and +1Abdulkadir Özdemir•  6  Archaeometry, Early Bronze Age (Archaeology), Figurines, Eastern AnatoliaMaking Beings: Amerindian Figurines in the CaribbeanSave to LibraryDownloadby Andrzej & Maria Magdalena  Antczak•  47  Prehistoric Archaeology, Symbolic Interaction, Island archaeology, Amazonian ArchaeologyPaddle dolls and performance in ancient Egypt. Save to LibraryDownloadby Ellen Morris•  20  Ancient Egyptian Religion, Egyptology, Gender Studies, Women's StudiesTerracotta Figurines and the Archaeology of Ritual: Domestic Cult in Greco-Roman EgyptThe past decade has witnessed a huge expansion of research on the “archaeology of ritual,” but the field is still grappling with serious theoretical and methodological issues, concerning everything from the definition of “ritual” itself... moreThe past decade has witnessed a huge expansion of research on the “archaeology of ritual,” but the field is still grappling with serious theoretical and methodological issues, concerning everything from the definition of “ritual” itself to the challenges of identifying ritual activity outside of designated sanctuary spaces. The present paper argues for a greater role for coroplastic studies in the ongoing scholarly discourse on defining and refining an archaeology of ritual. As the case study of Greco-Roman Egypt demonstrates, terracotta figurines provide valuable data for rituals embedded within the daily routines and living space of the household. A range of archaeological and textual data suggest that terracotta figurines may have taken part in at least three types of domestic ritual in Greco-Roman Egypt: (1) the veneration of cult images at domestic shrines; (2) the performance of magical rites; and (3) construction rituals for houses. The figurines in question thus provide important evidence for the interrelationship of “popular” and “official” religion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Caitlín E. Barrett•  26  Ritual, Archaeology of Religion, Religious Syncretism, Cognitive archaeologyLIFE EXTENSION: SECONDARY BURIAL, SELF-ACTUALIZATION AND FIGURINES "SECONDARY BURIAL, SELF-ACTUALIZATION AND FIGURINES This paper seeks to link three areas of archaeological interest within an anthropological perspective—clay models of the human figure, the subject-centered biography (as Dobres might... more"SECONDARY BURIAL, SELF-ACTUALIZATION AND FIGURINES This paper seeks to link three areas of archaeological interest within an anthropological perspective—clay models of the human figure, the subject-centered biography (as Dobres might say) that gives social resonance to the manufacture of these objects, and the mortuary practice of secondary burial in EB 1A levels of the great cemetery at Bâb edh-Dhrâʿon the Jordanian Plain southeast of the Dead Sea. I suggest that ritual gave resonant social meaning to secondary interment. Making, unmaking, and remaking of clay figurines reflexively informed disarticulation and re-articulation of skeletal material in the burials, offering an intact representation of the deceased and, in a provocative formulation, of the mourners themselves. As the dead are manipulated, so are the living. "Save to LibraryDownloadby Rick Hauser•  6  Performativity, Jordan, Identity, FigurinesClassic Period Figurines from the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico, and Their Contexts (Gary M. Feinman and Linda M. Nicholas 2019). The Wisconsin  Archaeologist 100 (1–2): 105–130.Fired-clay figurines and whistles are common, yet diverse, components of ceramic assemblages at Classic period sites in the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico. Drawing on a large assemblage of figurines from four excavated sites in this region,... moreFired-clay figurines and whistles are common, yet diverse,components of ceramic assemblages at Classic periodsites in the Valley of Oaxaca, Mexico. Drawing on a largeassemblage of figurines from four excavated sites in this region,we group these representational ceramic objects intoeight broad categories to facilitate the examination of spatialand contextual differences in the distributions and uses offigurines. Most prior interpretations of Mesoamerican fired clayfigurines have stressed their roles in household ritual.Indeed, we found that most figurines were produced andutilized in domestic contexts, but other classes of figurines,especially certain whistles, were heavily used in public ritualsenacted in association with civic-ceremonial structures.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gary Feinman and +1Linda Nicholas•  8  Archaeology, Mesoamerican Archaeology, Religion and ritual in prehistory, Ceramic Analysis (Archaeology)(2009) Las Grandes Piedras de la Prehistoria: Sitios y Paisajes Megalíticos de Andalucía [The Large Stones of Prehistory: Megalithic Sites and Landscapes of Andalusia] [FULL VOLUME]The megalithic phenomenon is one of the most exciting subjects of study in prehistory. The practice of monumentalising places of special significance by erecting large stones started during the Neolithic period, approximately 10.000 years... moreThe megalithic phenomenon is one of the most exciting subjects of study in prehistory. The practice of monumentalising places of special significance by erecting large stones started during the Neolithic period, approximately 10.000 years ago. On time, it acquired such a social and ideological depth that it became one of the most geographically and temporally widespread cultural phenomena ever known in Europe. In Andalusia,  megalithic sites and landscapes express themselves with great richness and diversity, representing an exceptional source of scientific information for our understanding of our forebears’ ways of life, as well as a unique and beautiful historical legacy. This book combines the contributions of various university professors, who bring us up to date with their research, with excellent photographic illustrations and, for the first time, reflects the spread of this cultural phenomenon throughout Andalusia. It is suitable for both those who wish to deepen their knowledge of this professional specialisation and those who seek the pleasure of a satisfied interest.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leonardo García Sanjuán•  141  Religion, Comparative Religion, History, Ancient HistoryHarpocrates on Rheneia: Two Egyptian Figurines from the Necropolis of Hellenistic DelosOf the numerous terracotta figurines from Hellenistic Delos, a small minority depict Egyptian deities or other figures from Egyptian religious cult. This article presents selected conclusions derived from a broader research project... moreOf the numerous terracotta figurines from Hellenistic Delos, a small minority depict Egyptian deities or other figures from Egyptian religious cult. This article presents selected conclusions derived from a broader research project examining (1) what commonalities exist among the possessors of Egyptian or Egyptianizing figurines, and (2) the social meanings and religious beliefs that people signified through the possession and use of such artifacts. This paper focuses on one subgroup of these terracottas: ithyphallic figurines of Harpocrates from the Delian necropolis on Rheneia. Such images are often dismissed as “grotesque,” but a detailed examination of their iconography and archaeological context reveals a highly sophisticated understanding of Egyptian theology. The presence of themes from so-called “official” religion in mass-produced, widely accessible objects such as terracotta figurines suggests a closer, more complex relationship between “popular” and “official” cults than is often acknowledged.Save to LibraryDownloadby Caitlín E. Barrett•  22  Classical Archaeology, Egyptology, Archaeology of Religion, Funerary ArchaeologyFiguring out Identity: The Body and Identity in the ‘Ubaid.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karina  Croucher•  4  Figurines, Tattoo, Body Modification, Body PaintingUnbroken stories: Middle Kingdom faience figurines in their archaeological contextThe aim of this paper is to shed light on the chronology, spatial distribution, iconography and social aspects of the faience figurines of the late Middle Kingdom. These figurines represent a broad range of animals taken both from the... moreThe aim of this paper is to shed light on the chronology, spatial distribution, iconography and social aspects of the faience figurines of the late Middle Kingdom. These figurines represent a broad range of animals taken both from the wild fauna and from the domestic environment; they also include human (as dwarves and truncated female figures) and hybrid (such as Aha/Bes; Ipy/Taweret) beings, and objects of the inanimate and vegetal worlds. The corpus taken into consideration in this paper relates only to those faience figurines (ca. 619 items) coming from documented archaeological contexts. A full list of figurines is appended to the text in order to provide summary information on their archaeological context, the types in use, their pattern of distribution in different geographical sectors (in Egypt and in adjacent areas, such as Nubia and Levant), and full bibliographic references.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gianluca Miniaci•  8  Egyptology, Funerary Archaeology, Middle Kingdom, FigurinesFigurines of central MacedoniaSynopsis of what we know about the neolithic figurines from central MacedoniaSave to LibraryDownloadby Stratos Nanoglou•  9  Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Neolithic Europe, NeolithicМитина М.Н. К ИСТОРИИ ИССЛЕДОВАНИЯ АНТРОПОМОРФНОЙ ПЛАСТИКИ ТРИПОЛЬЯ-КУКУТЕНИ.To the history of research of Tripolye-Cucuteni figurines//Краснодар: Историческая и социально-образовательная мысль, 2015. с.70The article is dedicated to the history of research of Tripolye-Cucuteni figurines, to the sources analysis. This paper presents problem of research mainly in the context of archeology. There are disadvantages of such approach.... moreThe article is dedicated to the history of research of Tripolye-Cucuteni figurines, to the sources analysis. This paper presents problem of research mainly in the context of archeology. There are disadvantages of such approach. Archeological researches give a lot of facts for dating and classification of figurines, but mostly do not reflect stylistic and substantial characteristics of statuettes. Many researchers very often do not pay attention on the interpretation problem of Tripolye-Cucuteni figurines, focusing only on the level of formal analysis. The author suggests an alternative, interdisciplinary approach to research of Tripolye-Cucuteni figurines, including methods of art history. It is necessary to assess sources for further researching of Tripolye-Cucuteni figurines. It is important to educe approaches from the perspective of different fields of science. Only composite using of achievements of each science field gives possibility for full research of figurines.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Mitina•  10  Philosophy, Art History, Ethnography, Historiography(со Г. Наумов) Неолитски антропоморфни предмети во Република Македонија / (with G. Naumov) Neolithic anthropomorphic objects in the Republic of MacedoniaSave to LibraryDownloadby Nikos Chausidis•  18  Gender Studies, Women's Studies, Anthropology of Gender, Neolithic ArchaeologyThe Nabataean Coroplastic Arts: A Synthetic Approach to Studying Terracotta Figurines, Plaques, Vessels, and other Clay ObjectsCoroplastic artifacts have been recovered throughout the region of the Nabataean kingdom since scientific investigation of the archaeological sites began in the late 19th century. The extant corpus of materials includes a wide variety of... moreCoroplastic artifacts have been recovered throughout the region of the Nabataean kingdom since scientific investigation of the archaeological sites began in the late 19th century. The extant corpus of materials includes a wide variety of different objects, such as figurines, plaques, zoomorphic vessels, masks, affixes, molded vessels, and other miniature items. Although a significant quantity of “terracotta” artifacts is known, comprehensive studies of the Nabataean coroplastic arts have been impeded by the lack of a synthetic approach that encompasses the diversity of available object types for specialized and comparative analyses. This dissertation introduces a synthetic methodology that can now be employed to identify, classify, and associate the varied artifacts for different types of analyses. The methodology was developed using the data collected from a corpus of 777 artifacts; 299 of these artifacts are previously unpublished objects from Petra and the Negev desert, which are presented here in a catalog that includes the empirical and provenience specifications, descriptions of the preserved details using formal analysis, as well as photographs and drawings of each object. Two tools are also presented that can aid future systematic studies of both the known artifacts and those recovered from new excavations. The first of these is a flexible typological framework that is designed to incorporate and correlate the full range of object types. The second is an adaptive interpretive analytic model that can be used to identify and assess the probabilities for the different function(s) and meaning(s) that the artifacts could have served during their periods of use. The study concludes with some observations about the frequencies, variations, and functional diversity demonstrated in the corpus, and presents several possibilities for additional analyses based on the research conducted here on the available data.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher A Tuttle•  16  Archaeology, Art History, Nabataeans (Classics), Nabataeans (Archaeology)"Notes on type 1 truncated figurines. Part 2. Hairstyles and the Conceptual Development of Braided Forms"Truncated figurines, otherwise known as fertility figurines, lack legs below the knees. This significant feature is not the only characteristic which distinguishes this type of figurine from other types in the established typology. In an... moreTruncated figurines, otherwise known as fertility figurines, lack legs below the knees. This significant feature is not the only characteristic which distinguishes this type of figurine from other types in the established typology. In an alternative method of analysis, braided hairstyles are considered, revealing diachronic and iconographic developments which indicate a shift in emphasis in the way these objects may have functioned.Save to LibraryDownloadby Angela M J Tooley•  8  Ancient Female Figures, Ancient Egyptian Iconography, Ancient Egyptian Magic, Ancient Egyptian Art and ArchaeologyPaleolitik ve Neolitik Dönem Buluntularıyla Giyim Kültürü/Garment Culture in the Foundlings of Paleolithic and Neolithic Ageİnsanlık tarihinin başlangıç noktasının tam olarak bilinmemesine rağmen ortaya konulan insan eseri ürünler ile yaşanmış kültürler bizlere bazı ipuçları vermektedir. Yaşam alanları, yemek kültürleri, inanışları ve giyim kültürleri gibi... moreİnsanlık tarihinin başlangıç noktasının tam olarak bilinmemesinerağmen ortaya konulan insan eseri ürünler ile yaşanmış kültürler bizlerebazı ipuçları vermektedir. Yaşam alanları, yemek kültürleri, inanışları vegiyim kültürleri gibi birtakım bilgilerin araştırmalar sonucunda ortayaçıkarılan eserler aracılığıyla öğrenilmesi mümkündür. Bu konudaözellikle mağara veya kaya resimleri, ana tanrıça figürinleri önemlireferans kaynakları arasında yer almaktadır. Dünyanın çeşitlibölgelerinde ele geçmiş sayısız eser ile günden güne açığa çıkan yenibulgular tarihi referansların daha bilinçli bir biçimde sorgulanarakdönemle ilgili belirsizliklerin ortadan kalmasında önemli bir adım teşkiletmektedir. Geçmişe uzanan kültürel yolculukta medeniyetlerin giyim vekuşam biçimlerine mağara ve kaya resimleri ile ele geçirilen figürinlerüzerinden tanıklık edilen birtakım araştırmalar, zorlu yaşam koşullarınakarşın insanoğlunun doğaya karşı verdiği mücadeleyle yaşamda kalmasavaşının somut göstergelerine ışık tutmaktadır. Temelde çıplak derisiniörtmek için geliştirdiği yöntemlerle yaşamının ve soyunun devametmesine olanak sağlayan ilkel dönem insanları, bu öğretilerini zihinselyetenekleri sayesinde geleneksel sistemlerle birleştirip gelecek kuşaklaraaktarmasını başarmıştır. Çalışmada İşlevsel ve günlük kullanımınındışında çeşitli ritüellerin de bir parçası olarak sembolik bir değerledonanan giysilerin Paleolitik ve Neolitik dönem buluntu örnekleriüzerinden incelenerek ortaya konulması amaçlanmıştır. Buluntularıoluşturan temel materyaller arasında ana tanrıça figürinleri, gömülerdenelde edilen giysi ve donatı parçaları ile mağara duvar resimleri yeralmaktadır.STRUCTURED ABSTRACTHumanity, who probably provided their need of dressing inPaleolithic and Mezolithic ages with the animal leathers that they hunted,soon started to use both the raw materials of the dresses they wore andthe technology that allows them to process that materials. Especiallychanging climatic conditions must have directed humans to wear moresuitable dresses. After the formation of primitive village conditions andchangeover to manufacturing, humans started to tame the animals thatthey hunted before. Particularly after taming the sheeps, some weavingmust have been made with the wools of these animals and the need ofdressing must have started to be resolved in this way.In the studies carried out on the examples obtained from thepublished materials regarding the Neolithic Age, beginning from thePalaeolithic Age, the first stages of the clothing culture, a process thatruns through history from the ice age to today, were studied on. Thestudies generally revealed the findings about the clothing style of mothergoddess figures and sculpture of both eras. At the same time, examplesof weaving found on funerary chambers along with the cutters, piercers,and bızs (a tool used for piercing) made of bones, horns or stones found in the caves from Palaeolithic Age and similar findings of the NeolithicAge strongly support our knowledge about the clothing culture of thesetwo eras. It is possible to state that this process first began for thepurpose of being protected from the cold and then turned out into apsychological action with the coverage of the reproductive organs. Insome examples mother goddesses were found to be naked, where someothers were half clothed either on the upper or lower body, and someothers had varying styles of head-dresses. Their symbolic indicationshave not changed, though they varied typologically.The history of clothing which began by benefiting from the fur ofwild animals also sets an example of the first battles fought by thehumans against nature. Both improving their ability to hunt wild animalsday by day and managing to stand out before difficult weather conditionsare among the first attainments of humanity.This symbol of fertility is more glorified with humans adopting theagricultural life after the cave life. As the symbol of fertility andreproduction, the woman has always maintained this characteristic,which turned out to be sacral. She became the main theme of ritualceremonies, which led to differences in ceremony clothes. Thesedifferences may be extended to tattoos made on many parts of the body,different materials worn on the body or on the clothes, and head wrappingstyles along with the qualification and quantification of the clothes.Men remained in the background in these terms. Therefore, noinformation was found about these two eras suggesting that males aresacred. However, the daily activities of men such as hunting were drawnon the walls of the caves and houses. In some depictions where theindividuals in a clan were drawn together, women appear to be differentfrom men with their clothes. As this is the situation, it would be better totell about the clothing culture based on women, rather than men.Looking at the found pieces, it might be said that the images andfigures of mother goddess were generally made steatopic with exaggeratedbody measurements, as the symbol of fertility. The girdles wrapped onthe wrists and hips of mother goddesses, headwear on their heads, hairbraids, etc. are the indicators of the importance of fertility andreproduction for the society.Another remarkable thing in the Palaeolithic Age is the depiction ofmixed creatures as humans and animals, which are considered to beshamanic clothes worn in ritual ceremonies. Within this context, thedepictions on the walls of the cave Les Trois Freres in France are quiteinteresting. These pictures showing creatures that wore headwear in theform of a deer and bull head, with human bodies and feet of a differentliving thing drive us to suspicion about the convention of clothing in theritual ceremonies of the era. Likewise, another depiction in the LascauxCave in France which shows a human with a face like the head of a birdis also considered to be drawn with a similar purpose. The pictures showthat not all the members of the clan wore in this way. When the animalsknown to be sacred in that era, especially benefited as food by thehumans, were being drawn on the walls of the caves, they were depictedin a hunting scene. The animal cult is as valued as the mother goddesscult. In the examples found in Latmos from the Palaeolithic Era, it wasseen that the women’s clothes had a remarkable style. Women’s clotheswith the part down the waist covered with an apron-like dress also hadgeometric shaped weaving designs. They were also depicted in a differentway than men with steatopic features.The hunter man found in Çatalhöyük is one of the clearestdepictions of the Neolithic era. The scene depicts the hunter in a hide ofa wild animal like a leopard that covers below his waist. The revolutionof agriculture of the Neolithic era stands for the development line ofsocieties and is a milestone for humanity. Therefore, a number ofinnovation and variation came into human’s life with the Neolithic era,such as food, shelter, obtaining new products out of variable rawmaterials, burying the dead, and daily life. With the beginning ofagriculture, foodstuffs such as wheat were grown and the carnivoroussociety turned into an herbivorous society. However, it is possible to saythat this change was slower in clothing, as the most effective solution tobe protected from cold was still the hides of animals. Animal hides havecontinued and continue to be an essential element of clothing, as needsshape the production.As the source of food and protection from cold, animals are a ringof the chain that takes humanity to tomorrow and are irreplaceable.Reproduction and fertility were identified with women and embodied withdepictions of mother goddess. When both concepts are taken together,their importance for human being is understood well.Human beings learned how to tame animals, as they wanted tobenefit from their flesh, milk, and skin further. They made life easierthanks to their ability to use their brains more effectively than the otherbeings. This process goes on today, as well. The purpose of keeping pacewith the ever-changing technology is in fact an indicator of human’s effortto gain access to elements that make life easier. Any society that keepspace with the process faster is considered as a developed society, whereasa slower society is considered as an underdeveloped society. Clothingculture was carried from the Palaeolithic era to this day thanks totechnological innovations through this graphic of changes. The shift ofconventional weaving techniques to the hands of machines throughouttime is another accomplishment of the societies that have kept pace withthe process faster. However, any society that has not quitted its customswould not be considered as underdeveloped in terms of clothing.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mustafa Gürbüz  BEYDİZ•  10  Neolithic, Figurines, Paleolithic, ClothingЖената како персонификација на просторот за живеење Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikos Chausidis•  42  Gender Studies, Perception, Women's Studies, AnthroposophyThe ‘Lady of Despotiko’ reconsidered: Cult image or cult utensil?, in E. Angliker and J. Tully (eds.), Cycladic Archaeology: New Approaches and Discoveries. Oxford: Archaeopress,  87-100Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexandra Alexandridou•  5  Figurines, Terracotta Figurines, Cyclades, ParosОтворите на неолитските жртвеници од типот „Мајка-Куќа“ (симболика и култна намена) / Nikos Čausidis, The Oppenings of the Neolithic Altars of the "Mother-House" Type. Symbolism and Cult PurposeThe aim of this work is to analyze the character and the purpose of the openings on the Macedonian Neolithic altars of the Mother-House type, based on it, and a verification of several hypothesis about the meaning and the function of this... moreThe aim of this work is to analyze the character and the purpose of the openings on the Macedonian Neolithic altars of the Mother-House type, based on it, and a verification of several hypothesis about the meaning and the function of this category of cult objects. Presented here is a part of these analysis which are related to these openings, located on the upper area (roof) and the bottom of the cubus (modeled house) (PI. I) and on the top of the anthropomorphic cylinder (PI. III). On some of the altars, on the four corners on the roof of the presented house there is a circular hole cut in with a diameter of around 1 cm. So far there is an assumption, according to which they could be used for putting in ropes so the altar can be hanged on the roof. Not really denying this hypothesis, the author is proposing a new one, according to which these openings had cult character i.e. were used for ritual adding of certain elements in the cubus: water, various liquid food (milk, cooking oil), processed or granulated (wheat, flour, bread crumbs), vegetation (leafs, flowers, branches) and animal elements (wool, hair, feathers) or elements who can burn or smoke (candles, pitch, embers). This hypothesis can be argued through appropriate rituals concluded at the Slavic and Balkan folklore, as well as the ehnographic traditions of other distant regions of the world. Actually, they are actions taken during various occasions (moving into a house, bringing the bride in the house, New Year's and other festivities). Namely, in the four corners of the house or on the roof various goods are placed, all with the same purpose, the abbility to gain happiness, welfare and protection in the future through this action. Especially important are the traces of such rituals, reffered to as "donating to the corners" during the excavation at the real houses from the Neolithic period. Semiotic analyses show that the four angles of the house, in these procedures symbolically are coding its total area.The mentioned rituals quite often end with giving a present at the last point - the fireplace which codes the central part i.e. the center of the house, where in the case of elaborated Neolithic altars coincides with the central hole made on the peak of the anthropomorphic cylinders. Based on the funnel shape and traces of burning, can be assumed that through this hole on the cubus some kind of liquid was poured, or through it a smoke was going out. Besides this function and shape, the cylinders rising from the cubus, shouldn't be treated as chimneys (they appeared in the future epochs), but as a symbolic-iconographic elements with a purpose to anthropomorphize i.e. divinize the house. On some altars, this central hole on the cylinder has its own match - larger central hole cut on the basement of the cubus. The author makes an effort for additional development and argument on the previously stated assumptions stating that it serves for pouring out the elements that were ritually added into the cubus. He doesn't exclude the possibility that through this hole, in the cubus periodically could be possible to put out or put in certain elements (candle, icon lamp, planted plant) so the altar will simply cover them.Adding various ritual elements could be made through larger holes, made on the lateral walls of the cubus. They could be elements that are already mentioned (in a role of symbols of the richness and the welfare of the house), so according to the principle of the homeopathic magic - and the real house to be filled with these elements or the one that they are symbolizing. Except the real jments, they could also be their art representations (figurines of people or animals). Considering the same concept, adding certain prophylactic elements (especially at the four corners) could lead to apostrophic effect, i.e. house protection from various negative aspects. In regard of listed concepts some parallels could be found, kept until present time in the Slavic and Balkan Folklore. We have in consideration the ritual breads (round breads, somewhere eve called "house"), made for Christmas or for the saint-patron holiday of the certain house, i.e. family. On their surface often is making an application of various artistic motifs, made in dough, and schematically are coding certain categories which the house should be fulfilled ("full barns", "multiplication of the cattle in the stables", "full house with children"). Some distant ethnographic examples are referring to the possibility of here shown Neolithic altars could serve also for symbolic sheltering and serving the souls of the deceased tenants that sometime lived in the house where this altar was placed in.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikos Chausidis•  17  Gender Studies, Gender and Sexuality, Folk Religion, NeolithicCulture Today Twitter Lectures mainCulture Today main part delivered in the year 2020, links to images and video clips are provided.Save to LibraryDownloadby Makoto Kuroda•  6  Japanese Anime, Archetypes, Figurines, Computer GamesTraditional costume and Jewellery of Ancient Deccan: A Study of Kopeshwar Shiv Temple of KhidrapurSave to LibraryDownloadby Dnyaneshwar Pawar•  8  Architecture, Sculpture, Figurines, JewelleryNaukratis: Cypriot figures in terracotta and limestone (2015)The role of Naukratis as a significant eastern Mediterranean trade hub is confirmed by the numerous – over 250 – Cypriot alabaster, limestone and terracotta figures found in the site’s Greek sanctuaries. Indeed, it was the discovery of a... moreThe role of Naukratis as a significant eastern Mediterranean trade hub is confirmed by the numerous – over 250 – Cypriot alabaster, limestone and terracotta figures found in the site’s Greek sanctuaries. Indeed, it was the discovery of a Cypriot alabaster figure that led Flinders Petrie to Naukratis in the first place. The quantity of Cypriot figures found within the earliest layers of the Greek sanctuaries of Aphrodite, Apollo and to a lesser degree the sanctuary of Hera and the Hellenion is an indicator of the strength of trade relations between Egypt and Cyprus during the Late Period, particularly during the Saite period. This chapter introduces the range of Cypriot figures found as votive offerings within the Greek sanctuaries of Naukratis. Their production, use and deposition is discussed, highlighting their prominent role as dedications of visitors to Naukratis during the period when the settlement had a unique role as Egypt’s hub of Mediterranean trade.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ross I Thomas•  9  Cypriot Archaeology, Egyptian Archaeology, Archaic Greek history, Votive practiceNaukratis: Stone and terracotta figures – an introduction (2015)The figures from Naukratis are a large and informative group that can be used to better understand the population of Naukratis over its long history. They comprise both locally made figurines and imports from the Eastern Mediterranean,... moreThe figures from Naukratis are a large and informative group that can be used to better understand the population of Naukratis over its long history. They comprise both locally made figurines and imports from the Eastern Mediterranean, notably East Greece and Cyprus, but also Greece and the Levant. Recent studies have concentrated on 7th to 6th century BC Cypriot limestone and alabaster sculpture, while Cypriot terracotta figures, local Egyptian and Greek figurines were largely ignored. This chapter provides a brief introduction to the material and a summary of the patterns present within this diverse assemblage. Comprising nearly 1,800 terracotta figures, figure vessels, models and coffin-fittings as well as over 400 stone figures, they cover all periods of the site’s history across the Saite, Achaemenid, Ptolemaic and Roman periods. Figures (and moulds) were found in workshops, houses, burials and sanctuary deposits. The assemblage provides useful insights into the production, use, meaning and deposition of figures that represent a variety of human activities at Naukratis. This yields valuable information about the site’s inhabitants and their identity. Whilst the figures from the Greek sanctuaries were predominantly East Greek and Cypriot – attesting the strong trade links between these regions and Naukratis – one remarkable observation is that the assemblage in the town is predominantly Egyptian in nature, suggesting that Egyptian religious practices were widespread in Naukratis from the time of its foundation onwards.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ross I Thomas•  11  Classical Archaeology, Cypriot Archaeology, Ptolemaic Egyptian History, Archaic GreeceEgyptian Plaques Terracottas of Standing Nude Women from the Late Period: Egyptian Heritage or Foreign InluencesSave to LibraryDownloadby Elodie ROTTE•  10  Cultural Transfer Studies, Egypt, Late Period, FigurinesNaukratis: Ptolemaic and Roman figures, models and coffin-fittings in terracotta (2015)From the late 4th century BC new styles and techniques of terracotta figure manufacture were introduced to Naukratis from Greece, replacing those of Late Period Egypt. The resulting Ptolemaic and Roman terracotta figures, coffin fittings... moreFrom the late 4th century BC new styles and techniques of terracotta figure manufacture were introduced to Naukratis from Greece, replacing those of Late Period Egypt. The resulting Ptolemaic and Roman terracotta figures, coffin fittings and models from Naukratis comprise a large and varied group of artefacts. Spanning the period from the end of the 4th century BC through to the 7th century AD, they reflect the continued significance of the settlement to Roman times. They also highlight an increase in the production and demand for terracotta representations of Egyptian deities. With over 850 of the extant examples locally produced in Naukratis, they are evidence for a proliferation in local demand for terracottas for the home and the cemetery. This chapter introduces the large and diverse group of extant figures from Naukratis, their production, use and deposition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ross I Thomas•  14  Ancient Egyptian Religion, Egyptian Archaeology, Byzantine Archaeology, Ptolemaic Egyptian HistoryUsing Pottery to Interpret the Past: Astarte Figurines in Late Bronze Age Palestine, a Case StudySave to LibraryDownloadby Rachael Sparks•  12  Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, Material Culture Studies, Levantine ArchaeologyArticulate Bodies: Forms and Figures at Çatalhöyük2009. With C. Nackamura. In Journal of Archaeological Method and Theory. 16: 206-230. This paper examines the materializing practices of bodies at the Neolithic site of Çatalhöyük. We focus on the clay and stone figurine corpus (over... more2009. With C. Nackamura. In Journal of Archaeological Method and Theory. 16: 206-230.This paper examines the materializing practices of bodies at the Neolithicsite of Çatalhöyük. We focus on the clay and stone figurine corpus (over 1,800 total,with over 1,000 of those being diagnostic), but also consider other media such aswall paintings and sculptured features, as well as the skeletal evidence. This paper isthe first attempt to analyze particular bodily characteristics in the Çatalhöyükfigurine repertoire from a perspective that investigates, rather than assumes, a priorithe representational priorities of their makers. Within a wide range of anthropomorphicand abbreviated figurines, we find that specific areas such as the stomach andbuttocks were often clearly delineated and emphasized, whereas demarcation ofprimary sexual characteristics was typically downplayed. These traits and theirmaterial “prominence” might underscore specific bodily areas that have generallybeen overlooked as potential sites of articulation and attention. Our work challengesolder assumptions that figurines were always engaged in projects of eitherdeification or self-making. Instead, we suggest that these body types might mediateother kinds of social concerns and practices.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lynn Meskell•  7  Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, Archaeological Method & Theory, Neolithic ArchaeologyKyme Doğu Nekropolü'nden Klasik Dönem Figürinleri / Terracotta Figurines of the Classical Period from the Eastern of KymeA rescue excavation was carried out by the Izmir Museum between 2010-2011 in the Eastern Necropolis of the Kyme, which was defined as the capital of the region in the Ancient Period, within the boundaries of the Aiolis. In these studies,... moreA rescue excavation was carried out by the Izmir Museum between 2010-2011 in the Eastern Necropolis of the Kyme, which was defined as the capital of the region in the Ancient Period, within the boundaries of the Aiolis. In these studies, seventeen figurines were found from the contexts of the terracotta sarcophagus numbered 21 and 33,and the earthen grave typology of Tombs 23, 72, 93, and 105. Along with these figurines, three figurines of different typologies were found out of context within the necropolis area. The figurines discussed in the study are the subject of the Classical coroplastics of the ancient city of Kyme in terms of production, interaction, technique, typology, and iconography. The figurines examined within the scope of the study present a wide typological range of, seated men and women group, kourotrophos, Aphrodite, Herculaneum woman, ephedrismos, temple boy, Silenus, and animal figurines.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pınar Taşpınar Yamantürk and +1Murat Çekilmez•  6  Figurines, Terracotta Figurines, Classical Period, KymeANIMAL FIGURINES DURING THE EARLY BRONZE AGE OF ANATOLIA: THE CASE OF KOÇUMBELİhis thesis aims to understand the use of animal figurines at the Early Bronze Age site of Koçumbeli in social context. In order to achieve this aim, 20 animal figurines from Koçumbeli have been examined in terms of their thematic... morehis thesis aims to understand the use of animal figurines at the Early Bronze Age site of Koçumbeli in social context. In order to achieve this aim, 20 animal figurines from Koçumbeli have been examined in terms of their thematic representations, raw materials, production technique, color, breakage as well as their contexts. Thematic evaluations focus on the animals depicted and their sex and age, while the contextual evaluations focus on the spatiality of animal figurines in relation to domestic and burial contexts. Following this, where possible through the publications, the animal figurines discovered at other EBA sites of Anatolia are evaluated in similar terms, in an attempt to achieve a better understanding of the figurines under consideration.The thematic findings indicate that horned animals are particularly emphasized both within the corpus of Koçumbeli and other sites. Besides these, other animals can be found within the assemblages. The contextual evaluations suggest that the clay animal figurines are generally associated with domestic contexts whereas the metal figurines are associated with elite burial contexts.Based on an evaluation of these findings against the subsistence economy of the time period as well as the development of animal imagery during the prehistory of Anatolia, it is suggested that animal figurines mediate a negotiation of social identity and prestige of individuals and families with reference to beliefs and rituals of social regeneration. Their specialized production in metals and association with elite burials should be placed in context of the emerging centralization processes during EBA in Anatolia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ebru Gizem AYTEN•  8  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Early Bronze Age (Archaeology), FigurinesΤα ειδώλια της κεντρικής ΜακεδονίαςΣύνοψη όσων γνωρίζουμε για τα νεολιθικά ειδώλια της κεντρικής Μακεδονίας. Synopsis of what we know about the neolithic figurines from central Macedonia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stratos Nanoglou•  9  Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, Neolithic Europe, NeolithicMarthari, M. 2017. Figurines in context at the Chalandriani cemetery on SyrosThe Chalandriani cemetery is the largest and most extensive EC burial ground known. More than 700 graves of the subterranean corbelled type have been excavated to date. The accompanying artefacts are distinguished by their variety and... moreThe Chalandriani cemetery is the largest and most extensive EC burial ground known. More than 700 graves of the subterranean corbelled type have been excavated to date. The accompanying artefacts are distinguished by their variety and richness. These include among other impressive pottery, marble vessels, silver and bronze artefacts. Figurines, however, are rare in this cemetery. Only six figurines come from the 540 graves that Tsountas brought to light by excavation in 1898. In addition, two figurines were unearthed in a rescue excavation carried out recently by the writer, which brought to light 28 graves in total. In sum, only 22 figurines, twelve ‘naturalistic’ and ten schematic, came to light in the 727 graves excavated at the Chalandriani cemetery. In contrast, 22 figurines were uncovered in only five graves at the Aplomata cemetery on Naxos. Thirteen figurines, 11 of marble and two of shell, were found in grave 13 at Aplomata. On the other hand, it is only at the cemetery at Chalandriani that pottery, mainly ‘frying-pans’, with representations of boats have been uncovered The evidence shows great differences among the Cycladic communities in the selection of the grave-goods. These selections might reflect the greater accessibility of a community to a special kind of material, for instance, good quality white marble. However, they might also echo the structural peculiarities of each individual community.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marisa Marthari•  27  Mediterranean prehistory, Funerary Archaeology, Funeral Practices, Aegean Bronze Age (Bronze Age Archaeology)Figurine traditions from the AmazonSave to LibraryDownloadby Cristiana Barreto•  7  Anthropology of the Body, Shamanism, Anthropology Of Art, Amazonian ArchaeologyTerracotta and stone figurines from NaukratisAmelia Edwards was the first to publish articles on ‘the terra-cottas of Naukratis’. In 1885, she stated that the pieces would ‘be distributed among various museums, and, scattered far and wide…. never again will it be possible to compare... moreAmelia Edwards was the first to publish articles on ‘the terra-cottas of Naukratis’. In 1885, she stated that the pieces would ‘be distributed among various museums, and, scattered far and wide…. never again will it be possible to compare them one with another, except in photographs or engravings’ (Edwards 1885, 261). Following the Naukratis Project’s cataloguing of all of the more than 18,000 known objects excavated and collected in the late 19th–early 20th century at Naukratis, and currently in over seventy-five collections worldwide (Villing et al. 2013–19), as well as the restudy of over 4,000 finds from the later American fieldwork in the 1970s and 80s, it is possible to compare all figurines again, although the long years since have resulted in a number of casualties (destroyed, lost or provenance misattributed). The Project has now catalogued to date 1,613 terracotta and 432 stone figurines from the site that range from the Late Period to the Byzantine period. Like the inhabitants of Naukratis, they are diverse, comprising both local figures and pieces that had travelled far from across the Eastern Mediterranean. This large and varied, but poorly understood, corpus has long demanded systematic analysis, given the growing literature on figurines in general (if not specifically those from Naukratis). This article will introduce the catalogue, provide a brief overview of the figurines, their dating, techniques and technology including their production at Naukratis, and discuss some major trends and developments between the late 7th century BC and the 7th century AD within the corpus at Naukratis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ross I Thomas•  6  Figurines, Terracotta Figurines, Hellenistic Sculpture, NaukratisΜ. Marthari, C. Renfrew and M. Boyd (eds.) 2017. Early Cycladic Sculpture in Context. Oxford and Philadelphia: OxbowThe sculpture of the Early Bronze Age Cyclades has been systematically studied since the time of Christos Tsountas at the end of the 19th century. But that study has been hampered by the circumstance that so many of the subsequent finds... moreThe sculpture of the Early Bronze Age Cyclades has been systematically studied since the time of Christos Tsountas at the end of the 19th century. But that study has been hampered by the circumstance that so many of the subsequent finds come from unauthorized excavations, where the archaeological context was irretrievably lost. Largely for that reason there are still many problems surrounding the chronology, the function and the meaning of Early Cycladic sculpture. This comprehensive re-assessment sets out to rectify that situation by publishing finds which have been recovered in controlled excavations in recent years, as well as earlier finds for which better documentation can now be provided. Using the material from recent excavation projects, it is possible now to undertake a fresh overview of the entire body of sculpture from the Cycladic islands which has been found in secure archaeological contexts. Beginning with early examples from Neolithic settlement sites and extending into a consideration of material found in later contexts, the 35 chapters are divided into sections which examine sculpture from settlements, cemeteries and the sanctuary at Kavos, concluding with a discussion of material, techniques and aspects of manufacture.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marisa Marthari and +1Michael Boyd•  44  Prehistoric Archaeology, Mediterranean prehistory, Mediterranean Studies, ContextRepresentations of Religious Practice at Kültepe: Alabaster Idols of Early Bronze Age, Subartu, vol. XXXV, Brepols-2015.Save to LibraryDownloadby Güzel ÖZTÜRK•  17  Near Eastern Archaeology, Near Eastern Studies, Anatolian Studies, Anatolian ArchaeologyThe beast with many heads: assembling bodies and changing history in the 5th millennium BCThe corpus of figurines securely dated to the Final Neolithic is extremely small and any attempts to pin down traits peculiar to the period tread, to say the least, on risky ground. Nevertheless, there are some types that have been... moreThe corpus of figurines securely dated to the Final Neolithic is extremely small and any attempts to pin down traits peculiar to the period tread, to say the least, on risky ground. Nevertheless, there are some types that have been associated with the period, at least in eastern Thessaly and central Macedonia. A significant aspect of these figures is that their head shows a mismatch with the body, either in terms of the material used and the technology employed or in terms of the number of heads that spring out of said body. This comprises a departure from an earlier emphasis on the body and its insignia and an even earlier focus on actions. In a way bodies in the Final Neolithic in this particular area are assembled from a multitude of seemingly disparate members and I will argue that focusing on the practice of assembling members sheds some light on those people’s place in history.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stratos Nanoglou•  7  Neolithic Archaeology, Aegean Prehistory (Archaeology), The Past in prehistoric societies, FigurinesThe Rhythmic Performance Embodied in Female Terracotta Figurines; Member-Organized Session: Current Directions in Coroplastic Studies; recorded, online (conference participants only)2021 ASOR ANNUAL MEETING, Virtual: December 9-12 Current Directions in Coroplastic Studies Session Chairs: Nancy Serwint, Arizona State University; Casey Gipson, Arizona State University Description: Following on the success of... more2021 ASOR ANNUAL MEETING, Virtual: December 9-12 Current Directions in Coroplastic StudiesSession Chairs: Nancy Serwint, Arizona State University; Casey Gipson, Arizona State University Description: Following on the success of “Figuring Out the Figurines of the Ancient Near East” sessions at the ASOR 2009. 2010, and 2011 meetings, another multi-year session that focuses on sculpture fashioned from clay in the ancient Mediterranean will be offered. The nearly ubiquitous discovery of clay sculpture in a variety of contexts over a chronological and geographic spread has resulted in a surge of research studies that assess the terracotta sculpture from multiple perspectives. The multi-year session will focus on emergent approaches in the discipline and will be titled “Current Directions in Coroplastic Studies.” The first year’s session (2020) will be “Methodologies in the Study of Terracotta Sculpture.” Year two’ session will be “The Materials and Production of Terracotta Sculpture,” while the third year will be titled “Context and the Relationship with Typologies.”Save to LibraryDownloadby Regine Hunziker-Rodewald and +1Andrei Aioanei•  9  Levantine Archaeology, Figurines, Terracotta Figurines, Anthropomorphic FigurinesTråsättra rapportThe settlement Tråsättra was situated in the outer Archipelago of Eastern Sweden during the latter part of the Neolithic. On the site a multitude of artifacts and constructions was documented. The site consists of several dwellings... moreThe settlement Tråsättra was situated in the outer Archipelago of Eastern Sweden during the latter part of the Neolithic. On the site a multitude of artifacts and constructions was documented. The site consists of several dwellings organized in a circle around an open area. The western part of the open area seems to have had a function for preparation of food with several hearths and cookingpits situated around a rectangular feature. The eastern part of the open area did not have hearths but a dwelling, possibly with a ritual function, that was shielded from the rest of the site by a palisade. On the site an extraordinary collection of atifacts and Neolithic figurines was recovered. The figurines depict both humans and animals.Save to LibraryDownloadby Niclas Björck•  15  Settlement Patterns, Hunters, Fishers and Gatherers' Archaeology, Neolithic Archaeology, Coastal and Island ArchaeologyNextLast »Related TopicsTerracotta FigurinesFollowFollowingAnthropomorphic FigurinesFollowFollowingPrehistoric FigurinesFollowFollowingCoroplastic StudiesFollowFollowingNear Eastern ArchaeologyFollowFollowingArchaeology of ReligionFollowFollowingAnthropomorphic Figurine StudiesFollowFollowingFemale FigurinesFollowFollowingGender ArchaeologyFollowFollowingMesopotamian ArchaeologyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023