UK help and services in Israel - GOV.UK
 Skip to main content
Cookies on GOV.UK
We use some essential cookies to make this website work.
We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services.
We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services.
You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.
You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.
Accept additional cookies
Reject additional cookies
View cookies
          Hide this message
        
              GOV.UK
            
        Navigation menu
      
                Menu
              
Menu
 
                Search GOV.UK
              
                ×
              
                Search GOV.UK
              
                  Services and information
                
Benefits
Births, death, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
                  Government activity
                
Departments
Departments, agencies and public bodies
News
News stories, speeches, letters and notices
Guidance and regulation
Detailed guidance, regulations and rules
Research and statistics
Reports, analysis and official statistics
Policy papers and consultations
Consultations and strategy
Transparency
Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports
            Search
          
Search GOV.UK
        Search
        
 
Popular on GOV.UK
Get support with the cost of living
Find out about the Energy Bills Support Scheme
Find a job
Universal Credit account: sign in
Check your National Insurance record
beta
    This is a test version of the layout of this page.
    
Home
Help and services around the world
    UK help and services in Israel
  
Services if you're visiting, studying, working or living in Israel. Includes information about trading with and doing business in the UK and Israel.
Subscriptions
 
Get emails for this topic UK help and services in Israel
Emergency help for British nationals
Get help if you're the victim of crime, you've been arrested, or are affected by a crisis abroad.
  
British Embassy Tel Aviv
            The British Embassy in Israel maintains and develops relations between the UK and Israel. 
          
Get help if you're a victim of crime abroad
            Contact the nearest British embassy, high commission, consulate or the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office in London to get help if you're the victim of crime abroad
          
If you’re affected by a crisis abroad
            Advice to British people affected by crises abroad such as large-scale terrorist attacks, natural disasters and political unrest, and how the FCDO can help.
          
Israel: in prison abroad
            Information on the Israeli legal and prison systems for British prisoners, their family and friends.
          
Israel: information for survivors of rape and sexual assault
            Information for British nationals affected by rape or sexual assault abroad.
          
Israel: mental health support abroad
            Information for British nationals with mental health issues in Israel, including how the British embassy can help.
          
Support for British nationals abroad
            This page lists guidance on how you can help yourself stay safe abroad, and the help the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) can provide.
          
 
Passports and emergency travel documents
Includes how to cancel a lost passport, renew a passport and apply for an emergency travel document.
  
Apply for or renew a British passport if you're visiting the UK
            You can apply for or renew a British passport while you're visiting the UK - as long as you expect to be in the UK for long enough
          
Cancel a lost or stolen passport
            What you need to do if your passport has been lost or stolen and you need to travel urgently.
          
Overseas British passport applications
            Renew, replace or apply for an adult or child British passport if you’re living abroad or working overseas - forms, prices, how long it takes
          
Travel urgently from abroad without your UK passport
            Apply for an emergency travel document if you're outside the UK and have not got a valid British passport - apply online, how to apply, fee, timings  
          
 
Travelling to Israel
Includes travel advice and how to get married abroad.
  
Getting married abroad
            Requirements, paperwork and processes for weddings and civil partnerships overseas - registration, restrictions, fees
          
Israel travel advice
            Latest FCDO travel advice for Israel including on entry requirements, safety and security and local laws and customs.
          
Israel: mental health support abroad
            Information for British nationals with mental health issues in Israel, including how the British embassy can help.
          
Reduce your risk from terrorism while abroad
            How to minimise your risk, and what to do if there's a terrorist attack.
          
 
Coming to the UK
Get a visa to study, work or visit the UK.
  
Check if you need a UK visa
            You may need a visa to come to the UK to visit, study or work.
          
Contact UK Visas and Immigration for help
            How to contact UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) for help with your application or immigration account, from inside and outside the UK.
          
Get your visa, immigration or citizenship documents back
            Get your documents returned if you've made a UK visa, immigration or citizenship application but need them back urgently
          
 
Living in Israel
Includes how to access healthcare, get a document legalised, lists of lawyers and how to vote abroad.
  
Get your document legalised
            Use the online service to get a UK document legalised.
          
Israel travel advice
            Latest FCDO travel advice for Israel including on entry requirements, safety and security and local laws and customs.
          
Israel – List of Lawyers
            List of English speaking lawyers and translators/interpreters.
          
Israel: mental health support abroad
            Information for British nationals with mental health issues in Israel, including how the British embassy can help.
          
Israel: translators and interpreters
            List of translators and interpreters for British nationals in Israel.
          
Living in Israel and the OPTs
            Essential information for British nationals residing in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPT). 
          
Medical Facilities in Israel
            List of English speaking medical facilities for British nationals in Israel.
          
Professional services if you are abroad
            Find English-speaking lawyers, doctors and medical providers, interpreters and translators, and funeral directors  overseas. 
          
UK benefits if you’re going or living abroad
            Find out what benefits you might be able to receive while you’re abroad and how to export them from the UK or claim them while abroad
          
Voting if you move or live abroad
            How to vote if you move or live abroad, including eligibility and registration
          
 
Tax, benefits, pensions and working abroad
Includes how to pay tax, claim State Pension and get tax credits abroad.
  
Claiming benefits if you live, move or travel abroad
            Benefits you can claim if you go abroad and countries with social security arrangements with the UK 
          
Moving or retiring abroad
            What you need to know if you move or retire abroad - tax, pensions, voting and contacting your local council
          
National Insurance if you work abroad
            Find out if you need to pay National Insurance in the UK or in the country you are visiting when you work abroad
          
State Pension if you retire abroad
            How to claim State Pension if you're overseas - payment, tax, change of circumstances - contact the International Pension Centre
          
Tax credits if you leave or move to the UK
            Tax credits if you live abroad, go travelling, are a cross-border worker or subject to immigration control 
          
Tax on foreign income
            Find out whether you need to pay UK tax on foreign income - residence and ‘non-dom’ status, tax returns, claiming relief if you’re taxed twice (including certificates of residence)
          
Tax on your UK income if you live abroad
            Find out whether you need to pay tax on your UK income while you're living abroad - non-resident landlord scheme, tax returns, claiming relief if you’re taxed twice, personal allowance of tax-free income, form R43
          
 
Birth, death and marriage abroad
Includes how to get married, list of funeral directors and how to register a birth abroad.
  
Getting married abroad
            Requirements, paperwork and processes for weddings and civil partnerships overseas - registration, restrictions, fees
          
Israel: funeral directors
            List of English-speaking funeral directors for British nationals abroad in Israel.
          
Register a birth abroad
            Parents must register the birth in the country where the child was born - find out if you can also register the birth in the UK
          
Surrogacy overseas
            Information for British nationals who are considering entering into surrogacy arrangements in foreign countries.
          
What to do when someone dies: step by step
            Check what to do after a death - how to register the death, notify government departments and deal with the estate.
          
 
News and events
Find out about the UK government's diplomatic, security and development work in Israel.
  
Israel and the UK
            Updates, news and events from the UK government in Israel
          
 
Trade and invest
Includes investing and setting up a business in the UK and doing business in Israel.
  
Department for Business and Trade Israel
            DBT provides trade and investment services and practical support. We help UK companies succeed in Israel, and Israeli companies set up and invest in the UK.
          
Overseas business risk for Israel
            The overseas business risk report provides information on security and political risks which UK businesses may face when operating in Israel.
          
Set up a business
            What you need to do to start a business: choose a legal structure, see if you need licences and insurance, learn about reliefs and benefits
          
UK Science & Innovation Network in Israel
 
British embassy or high commission
Includes contact details, opening hours and consular fees and local services.
  
British Embassy Tel Aviv
            The British Embassy in Israel maintains and develops relations between the UK and Israel. 
          
Israel: consular fees
            List of fees for consular services in Israel.
          
Notarial and documentary services guide for Israel
            Documents, certificates, letters and notes available at British Embassy in Israel.
          
Support for British nationals abroad
            This page lists guidance on how you can help yourself stay safe abroad, and the help the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) can provide.
          
Is this page useful?
              Maybe
 
              Yes this page is useful
              No this page is not useful
      Thank you for your feedback
    
        Report a problem with this page
      
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only. Please leave blank
What were you doing?
What went wrong?
Send
        Cancel
      
Help us improve GOV.UK
To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. We’ll send you a link to a feedback form. It will take only 2 minutes to fill in. Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
Email address
Send me the survey
        Cancel
      
Services and information
Benefits
Births, death, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Government activity
Departments
News
Guidance and regulation
Research and statistics
Policy papers and consultations
Transparency
How government works
Get involved
Support links
Help
Privacy
Cookies
Accessibility statement
Contact
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Government Digital Service
          All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
        
© Crown copyright