Wikipedia:Verifiability - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Responsibility for providing citations
2Reliable sources
Toggle Reliable sources subsection
2.1What counts as a reliable source
2.1.1Best sources
2.2Newspaper and magazine blogs
2.3Reliable sources noticeboard and guideline
3Sources that are usually not reliable
Toggle Sources that are usually not reliable subsection
3.1Questionable sources
3.2Self-published sources
3.3Self-published or questionable sources as sources on themselves
3.4Wikipedia and sources that mirror or use it
4Accessibility
Toggle Accessibility subsection
4.1Access to sources
4.2Non-English sources
4.2.1Citing
4.2.2Quoting
5Other issues
Toggle Other issues subsection
5.1Verifiability does not guarantee inclusion
5.2Tagging a sentence, section, or article
5.3Exceptional claims require exceptional sources
6Verifiability and other principles
Toggle Verifiability and other principles subsection
6.1Copyright and plagiarism
6.2Neutrality
6.3Notability
6.4Original research
7See also
Toggle See also subsection
7.1Guidelines
7.2Information pages
7.3Resources
7.4Essays
8Notes
9References
10Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Wikipedia:Verifiability
96 languages
Afrikaansالعربيةঅসমীয়াAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीБългарскиBosanskiCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCymraegDanskالدارجةDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalegoگیلکیગુજરાતી한국어HausaՀայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoಕನ್ನಡქართულიҚазақшаKreyòl ayisyenKurdîLatinaLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംمصرىBahasa MelayuMinangkabauမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपाली日本語NapulitanoNorsk bokmålଓଡ଼ିଆOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپښتوPolskiPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaRomânăРусиньскыйРусскийScotsShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaၽႃႇသႃႇတႆး తెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文
Edit links
Project pageTalk
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadView sourceView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidataWikiversity
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikipedia policy on verifiability of information
"WP:V" redirects here. To discuss particular sources, see the reliable sources noticeboard. For vandalism, see Wikipedia:Vandalism.
This page documents an English Wikipedia policy.It describes a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.ShortcutsWP:VWP:VERWP:VERIFY
This page in a nutshell: Readers must be able to check that any of the information within Wikipedia articles is not just made up. This means all material must be attributable to reliable, published sources. Additionally, quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be supported by inline citations.
Content policies
Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability
Article titles
Biographies of living persons
Image use policy
What Wikipedia is not
vte
Short URL
w.wiki/FVY
In the English Wikipedia, verifiability means other people using the encyclopedia can check that the information comes from a reliable source. Wikipedia does not publish original research. Its content is determined by previously published information rather than editors' beliefs, opinions, or experiences. Even if you are sure something is true, it must be verifiable before you can add it.[a] If reliable sources disagree, then maintain a neutral point of view and present what the various sources say, giving each side its due weight.
All material in Wikipedia mainspace, including everything in articles, lists, and captions, must be verifiable. All quotations, and any material whose verifiability has been challenged or is likely to be challenged, must include an inline citation to a reliable source that directly supports[b] the material. Any material that needs an inline citation but does not have one may be removed. Please immediately remove contentious material about living people that is unsourced or poorly sourced.
For how to write citations, see citing sources. Verifiability, no original research, and neutral point of view are Wikipedia's core content policies. They work together to determine content, so editors should understand the key points of all three. Articles must also comply with the copyright policy.
Responsibility for providing citations
ShortcutsWP:BURDENWP:PROVEITWP:CHALLENGE
"WP:PROVEIT" redirects here. For the editing tool, see Wikipedia:ProveIt.
"WP:CHALLENGE" redirects here. For challenging closes, see Wikipedia:Closing discussions § Challenging a closing.
See also: Wikipedia:Editing policy § Try to fix problems
All content must be verifiable. The burden to demonstrate verifiability lies with the editor who adds or restores material, and it is satisfied by providing an inline citation to a reliable source that directly supports[b] the contribution.[c]
Using inline citations, provide reliable, published sources for:
all quotations
all material whose verifiability has been challenged
all material that is likely to be challenged
all contentious matter about living and recently deceased persons.
The cited source must clearly support the material as presented in the article. Cite the source clearly, ideally giving page number(s)—though sometimes a section, chapter, or other division may be appropriate instead; see Wikipedia:Citing sources for details of how to do this.
Any material lacking an inline citation to a reliable source that directly supports[b] the material may be removed and should not be restored without an inline citation to a reliable source. Whether and how quickly material should be initially removed for not having an inline citation to a reliable source depends on the material and the overall state of the article. In some cases, editors may object if you remove material without giving them time to provide references. Consider adding a citation needed tag as an interim step.[d] When tagging or removing material for lacking an inline citation, please state your concern that it may not be possible to find a published reliable source, and the material therefore may not be verifiable.[e] If you think the material is verifiable, you are encouraged to provide an inline citation yourself before considering whether to remove or tag it.
Do not leave unsourced or poorly sourced material in an article if it might damage the reputation of living people[1] or existing groups, and do not move it to the talk page. You should also be aware of how Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons also applies to groups.
 Reliable sources
ShortcutsWP:SOURCEWP:SOURCES
"WP:SOURCE" redirects here. For how to reference sources, see Help:Referencing for beginners. For the <syntaxhighlight> tag (previously the <source> tag), see Help:Wikitext § syntaxhighlight.
What counts as a reliable source
Further information: Wikipedia:Reliable sources
A cited source on Wikipedia is often a specific portion of text (such as a short article or a page in a book). But when editors discuss sources (for example, to debate their appropriateness or reliability) the word source has four related meanings:
The work itself (the article, book:  "That book looks like a useful source for this article.") and works like it ("An obituary can be a useful biographical source", "A recent source is better than an old one")
The creator of the work (the writer, journalist:  "What do we know about that source's reputation?") and people like them ("A medical researcher is a better source than a journalist for..").
The publication (for example, the newspaper, journal, magazine:  "That source covers the arts.") and publications like them ("A newspaper is not a reliable source for medical facts").
The publisher of the work (for example, Cambridge University Press:  "That source publishes reference works.") and publishers like them ("An academic publisher is a good source of reference works").
All four can affect reliability.
Base articles on reliable, independent, published sources with a reputation for fact-checking and accuracy. Source material must have been published, the definition of which for the purposes of Wikipedia is made available to the public in some form.[f] Unpublished materials are not considered reliable. Use sources that directly support the material presented in an article and are appropriate to the claims made. The appropriateness of any source depends on the context. Be especially careful when sourcing content related to living people or medicine.
If available, academic and peer-reviewed publications are usually the most reliable sources on topics such as history, medicine, and science.
Editors may also use material from reliable non-academic sources, particularly if it appears in respected mainstream publications. Other reliable sources include:
University-level textbooks
Books published by respected publishing houses
Mainstream (non-fringe) magazines, including specialty ones
Reputable newspapers
Editors may also use electronic media, subject to the same criteria (see details in Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources and Wikipedia:Search engine test).
Best sources
The best sources have a professional structure for checking or analyzing facts, legal issues, evidence, and arguments. The greater the degree of scrutiny given to these issues, the more reliable the source.
Newspaper and magazine blogs
ShortcutWP:NEWSBLOG
Some newspapers, magazines, and other news organizations host online columns they call blogs. These may be acceptable sources if the writers are professionals, but use them with caution because blogs may not be subject to the news organization's normal fact-checking process.[g] If a news organization publishes an opinion piece in a blog, attribute the statement to the writer, e.g. "Jane Smith wrote ..." Never use the blog comments that are left by the readers as sources. For personal or group blogs that are not reliable sources, see § Self-published sources below.
Reliable sources noticeboard and guideline
Further information: Wikipedia:Reliable sources and Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Noticeboard
To discuss the reliability of a specific source for a particular statement, consult Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Noticeboard, which seeks to apply this policy to particular cases. For a guideline discussing the reliability of particular types of sources, see Wikipedia:Reliable sources. In the case of inconsistency between this policy and the Wikipedia:Reliable sources guideline, or any other guideline related to sourcing, this policy has priority.
Sources that are usually not reliable
"WP:NOTRELIABLE" redirects here. For Wikipedia's own reliability, see Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not a reliable source.
See also: Wikipedia:Reliable sources § Questionable and self-published sources, and Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Perennial sources
ShortcutsWP:NOTRELIABLEWP:NOTRSWP:QS
Questionable sources
Questionable sources are those that have a poor reputation for checking the facts, lack meaningful editorial oversight, or have an apparent conflict of interest.
Such sources include websites and publications expressing views widely considered by other sources to be promotional, extremist, or relying heavily on unsubstantiated gossip, rumor, or personal opinion. Questionable sources should be used only as sources for material on themselves, such as in articles about themselves; see below. They are not suitable sources for contentious claims about others.
Predatory open access journals are considered questionable due to the absence of quality control in the peer-review process.
Self-published sources
ShortcutsWP:SPSWP:SELFPUBWP:SELFPUBLISHWP:BLOGSWP:EXPERTSPS
Further information: Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons § Avoid self-published sources, Wikipedia:List of self-publishing companies, and Wikipedia:Identifying and using self-published works
Anyone can create a personal web page, self-publish a book, or claim to be an expert. That is why self-published material such as books, patents, newsletters, personal websites, open wikis, personal or group blogs (as distinguished from newsblogs, above), content farms, Internet forum postings, and social media postings are largely not acceptable as sources. Self-published expert sources may be considered reliable when produced by an established subject-matter expert, whose work in the relevant field has previously been published by reliable, independent publications.[g] Exercise caution when using such sources: if the information in question is suitable for inclusion, someone else will probably have published it in independent, reliable sources.[2] Never use self-published sources as third-party sources about living people, even if the author is an expert, well-known professional researcher, or writer.
Self-published or questionable sources as sources on themselves
"WP:SOCIALMEDIA" redirects here. For the policy on what Wikipedia is not, see WP:NOTSOCIALNETWORK.
"WP:TWITTER" redirects here. For the external links essay, see WP:Twitter-EL. For the template used for citing tweets, see Template:Cite tweet.
See also: Wikipedia:Reliable sources § Statements of opinion
ShortcutsWP:ABOUTSELFWP:TWITTERWP:SOCIALMEDIA
Self-published and questionable sources may be used as sources of information about themselves, usually in articles about themselves or their activities, without the self-published source requirement that they are established experts in the field, so long as:
the material is neither unduly self-serving nor an exceptional claim;
it does not involve claims about third parties;
it does not involve claims about events not directly related to the source;
there is no reasonable doubt as to its authenticity; and
the article is not based primarily on such sources.
This policy also applies to material published by the source on social networking websites such as Twitter, Tumblr, LinkedIn, Reddit, and Facebook.
Wikipedia and sources that mirror or use it
ShortcutsWP:CIRCWP:CIRCULARWP:REFLOOP
"WP:CIRCULAR" redirects here. For links on a page that redirect back to the same page, see WP:SELFRED.
See also: WP:COPYWITHIN, Wikipedia:List of citogenesis incidents, Wikipedia:Citing Wikipedia, and Wikipedia:Wikipedia is not a reliable source
Do not use articles from Wikipedia (whether English Wikipedia or Wikipedias in other languages) as sources, since Wikipedia is a user-generated source. Also, do not use websites mirroring Wikipedia content or publications relying on material from Wikipedia as sources. Content from a Wikipedia article is not considered reliable unless it is backed up by citing reliable sources. Confirm that these sources support the content, then use them directly.[3]
An exception is allowed when Wikipedia itself is being discussed in the article. These may cite an article, guideline, discussion, statistic, or other content from Wikipedia (or a sister project) to support a statement about Wikipedia. Wikipedia or the sister project is a primary source in this case and may be used following the policy for primary sources. Any such use should avoid original research, undue emphasis on Wikipedia's role or views, and inappropriate self-reference. The article text should clarify how the material is sourced from Wikipedia to inform the reader about the potential bias.
Accessibility
Access to sources
ShortcutsWP:PAYWALLWP:SOURCEACCESS
See also: Wikipedia:Offline sources, Wikipedia:WikiProject Resource Exchange/Resource Request, and Wikipedia:Reliable sources/Cost
Do not reject reliable sources just because they are difficult or costly to access. Some reliable sources are not easily accessible. For example, an online source may require payment, and a print-only source may be available only through libraries. Rare historical sources may even be available only in special museum collections and archives. If you have trouble accessing a source, others may be able to do so on your behalf (see WikiProject Resource Exchange).
Non-English sources
ShortcutsWP:RSUEWP:NOENGWP:NONENG
See also: Wikipedia:Translators available and Wikipedia:No original research § Translations and transcriptions
Citing
Citations to non-English reliable sources are allowed on the English Wikipedia. However, because this project is in English, English-language sources are preferred over non-English ones when they are available and of equal quality and relevance. As with sources in English, if a dispute arises involving a citation to a non-English source, editors may request a quotation of relevant portions of the original source be provided, either in text, in a footnote, or on the article talk page.[h] (See Template:Request quotation.)
Quoting
If you quote a non-English reliable source (whether in the main text or in a footnote), a translation into English should accompany the quote. Translations published by reliable sources are preferred over translations by Wikipedians, but translations by Wikipedians are preferred over machine translations. When using a machine translation of source material, editors should be reasonably certain that the translation is accurate and the source is appropriate. Editors should not rely upon machine translations of non-English sources in contentious articles or biographies of living people. If needed, ask an editor who can translate it for you.
The original text is usually included with the translated text in articles when translated by Wikipedians, and the translating editor is usually not cited. When quoting any material, whether in English or in some other language, be careful not to violate copyright; see the fair-use guideline.
Other issues
Verifiability does not guarantee inclusion
ShortcutsWP:VNOTWP:ONUS
"WP:ONUS" redirects here. For the responsibility to demonstrate verifiability, see WP:BURDEN.
Main page: Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not § Encyclopedic content
See also: WP:UNDUE, WP:PAGEDECIDE, WP:PRESERVE, WP:SUMMARY, and WP:IINFO
While information must be verifiable for inclusion in an article, not all verifiable information must be included. Consensus may determine that certain information does not improve an article. Such information should be omitted or presented instead in a different article. The responsibility for achieving consensus for inclusion is on those seeking to include disputed content.
Tagging a sentence, section, or article
Further information: Wikipedia:Citation needed and Wikipedia:Template index/Sources of articles
ShortcutsWP:FAILWP:FAILVWP:FAILEDVERIFICATION
If you want to request an inline citation for an unsourced statement, you can tag a sentence with the {{citation needed}} template by writing {{cn}} or {{fact}}. Other templates exist for tagging sections or entire articles here. You can also leave a note on the talk page asking for a source, or move the material to the talk page and ask for a source there. To request verification that a reference supports the text, tag it with {{verification needed}}. Material that fails verification may be tagged with {{failed verification}} or removed. It helps other editors to explain your rationale for using templates to tag material in the template, edit summary, or on the talk page.
Take special care with contentious material about living and recently deceased people. Unsourced or poorly sourced material that is contentious, especially text that is negative, derogatory, or potentially damaging, should be removed immediately rather than tagged or moved to the talk page.
Exceptional claims require exceptional sources
ShortcutsWP:REDFLAGWP:EXCEPTIONALWP:EXTRAORDINARYWP:ECREE
See also: Sagan standard and Wikipedia:Fringe theories
Any exceptional claim requires multiple high-quality sources.[4] Warnings (red flags) that should prompt extra caution include:
Surprising or apparently important claims not covered by multiple mainstream sources;
Challenged claims that are supported purely by primary or self-published sources or those with an apparent conflict of interest;
Reports of a statement by someone that seems out of character or against an interest they had previously defended;
Claims contradicted by the prevailing view within the relevant community or that would significantly alter mainstream assumptions—especially in science, medicine, history, politics, and biographies of living and recently dead people. This is especially true when proponents say there is a conspiracy to silence them.
Verifiability and other principles
Copyright and plagiarism
Further information: Wikipedia:Copyright, Wikipedia:Plagiarism, Wikipedia:Copying within Wikipedia, Wikipedia:MOS § Attribution, and Wikipedia:CITE § In-text attribution
ShortcutsWP:OWNWORDSWP:YTCOPYRIGHT
Do not plagiarize or breach copyright when using sources. Summarize source material in your own words as much as possible; when quoting or closely paraphrasing a source, use an inline citation, and in-text attribution where appropriate.
Do not link to any source that violates the copyrights of others per contributors' rights and obligations. You can link to websites that display copyrighted works as long as the website has licensed the work or uses the work in a way compliant with fair use. Knowingly directing others to material that violates copyright may be considered contributory copyright infringement. If there is reason to think a source violates copyright, do not cite it. This is particularly relevant when linking to sites such as Scribd or YouTube, where due care should be taken to avoid linking to material violating copyright.
Neutrality
Further information: Wikipedia:Neutral point of view
ShortcutsWP:SOURCESDISAGREEWP:SOURCESDIFFER
Even when information is cited to reliable sources, you must present it with a neutral point of view (NPOV). Articles should be based on thorough research of sources. All articles must adhere to NPOV, fairly representing all majority and significant-minority viewpoints published by reliable sources, in rough proportion to the prominence of each view. Tiny-minority views need not be included, except in articles devoted to them. If there is a disagreement between sources, use in-text attribution: "John Smith argues X, while Paul Jones maintains Y," followed by an inline citation. Sources themselves do not need to maintain a neutral point of view. Indeed, many reliable sources are not neutral. Our job as editors is simply to summarize what reliable sources say.
Notability
Further information: Wikipedia:Notability
If no reliable, independent sources can be found on a topic, Wikipedia should not have an article on it (i.e., the topic is not notable).
However, notability is based on the existence of suitable sources, not on the state of sourcing in an article (WP:NEXIST).
Original research
Further information: Wikipedia:No original research
The no original research policy (NOR) is closely related to the Verifiability policy. Among its requirements are:
All material in Wikipedia articles must be attributable to a reliable published source. This means a reliable published source must exist for it, whether or not it is cited in the article.
Sources must support the material clearly and directly: drawing inferences from multiple sources to advance a novel position is prohibited by the NOR policy.[h]
Base articles largely on reliable secondary sources. While primary sources are appropriate in some cases, relying on them can be problematic. For more information, see the Primary, secondary, and tertiary sources section of the NOR policy, and the Misuse of primary sources section of the BLP policy.
See also
Guidelines
Reliable sources
Identifying reliable sources (medicine)
Information pages
Wikipedia is not a reliable source
Core content policies
How to mine a source
Independent sources
Identifying and using primary sources
Identifying and using self-published works
Video links
When to cite
Resources
Improving referencing efforts
Template index/Sources of articles
WikiProject Reliability
The Wikipedia Library
WikiProject Resource Exchange
Essays
Citation overkill
Identifying and using tertiary sources
Verifiability, not truth
Wikipedia:You are not a reliable source
Notes
^ This principle was previously expressed on this policy page as "the threshold for inclusion is verifiability, not truth". See the essay, Wikipedia:Verifiability, not truth.
^ a b c A source "directly supports" a given piece of material if the information is present explicitly in the source so that using this source to support the material is not a violation of Wikipedia:No original research. The location of any citation—including whether one is present in the article at all—is unrelated to whether a source directly supports the material. For questions about where and how to place citations, see Wikipedia:Citing sources, Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Lead section § Citations, etc.
^ Once an editor has provided any source they believe, in good faith, to be sufficient, then any editor who later removes the material must articulate specific problems that would justify its exclusion from Wikipedia (e.g. why the source is unreliable; the source does not support the claim; undue emphasis; unencyclopedic content; etc.). If necessary, all editors are then expected to help achieve consensus, and any problems with the text or sourcing should be fixed before the material is added back.
^ It may be that the article contains so few citations it is impractical to add specific citation needed tags. Consider then tagging a section with {{unreferenced section}}, or the article with the applicable of either {{unreferenced}} or {{more citations needed}}. For a disputed category, you may use {{unreferenced category}}. For a disambiguation page, consider asking for a citation on the talk page.
^ When tagging or removing such material, please keep in mind such edits can easily be misunderstood. Some editors object to others making chronic, frequent, and large-scale deletions of unsourced information, especially if unaccompanied by other efforts to improve the material. Do not concentrate only on material of a particular point of view, as that may appear to be a contravention of Wikipedia:Neutral point of view. Also, check to see whether the material is sourced to a citation elsewhere on the page. For all these reasons, it is advisable to clearly communicate that you have a considered reason to believe the material in question cannot be verified.
^ This includes material such as documents in publicly accessible archives as well as inscriptions in plain sight, e.g. tombstones.
^ a b Please do note that any exceptional claim would require exceptional sources.
^ a b When there is a dispute as to whether a piece of text is fully supported by a given source, direct quotes and other relevant details from the source should be provided to other editors as a courtesy. Do not violate the source's copyright when doing so.
References
^ Wales, Jimmy. "Zero information is preferred to misleading or false information", WikiEN-l, May 16, 2006: "I can NOT emphasize this enough. There seems to be a terrible bias among some editors that some sort of random speculative 'I heard it somewhere' pseudo information is to be tagged with a 'needs a cite' tag. Wrong. It should be removed, aggressively, unless it can be sourced. This is true of all information, but it is particularly true of negative information about living persons."
^ Self-published material is characterized by the lack of independent reviewers (those without a conflict of interest) validating the reliability of the content. Further examples of self-published sources include press releases, the material contained within company websites, advertising campaigns, material published in media by the owner(s)/publisher(s) of the media group, self-released music albums, and electoral manifestos:
The University of California, Berkeley, library states: "Most pages found in general search engines for the web are self-published or published by businesses small and large with motives to get you to buy something or believe a point of view. Even within university and library web sites, there can be many pages that the institution does not try to oversee."
Princeton University offers this understanding in its publication, Academic Integrity at Princeton (2011): "Unlike most books and journal articles, which undergo strict editorial review before publication, much of the information on the Web is self-published. To be sure, there are many websites in which you can have confidence: mainstream newspapers, refereed electronic journals, and university, library, and government collections of data. But for vast amounts of Web-based information, no impartial reviewers have evaluated the accuracy or fairness of such material before it's made instantly available across the globe."
The Chicago Manual of Style, 16th Edition states, "Any site that does not have a specific publisher or sponsoring body should be treated as unpublished or self-published work."
^ Rekdal, Ole Bjørn (1 August 2014). "Academic urban legends". Social Studies of Science. 44 (4): 638–654. doi:10.1177/0306312714535679. ISSN 0306-3127. PMC 4232290. PMID 25272616.
^ Hume, David. An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding, Forgotten Books, 1984, pp. 82, 86; first published in 1748 as Philosophical enquiries concerning human Understanding, (or the Oxford 1894 edition OL 7067396M at para. 91) "A wise man ... proportions his belief to the evidence ... That no testimony is sufficient to establish a miracle, unless the testimony is of such a kind, that its falsehood would be more miraculous, than the fact, which it endeavors to establish; and even in that case there is a mutual destruction of arguments, and the superior only gives us an assurance suitable to that degree of force, which remains, after deducting the inferior." In the 18th century, Pierre-Simon Laplace reformulated the idea as "The weight of evidence for an extraordinary claim must be proportioned to its strangeness." Marcello Truzzi recast it again, in 1978, as "An extraordinary claim requires extraordinary proof." Carl Sagan, finally, popularized the concept broadly as "Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence" in 1980 on Cosmos: A Personal Voyage; this was the formulation originally used on Wikipedia.
Further reading
Wales, Jimmy. "Insist on sources", WikiEN-l, July 19, 2006: "I really want to encourage a much stronger culture which says: it is better to have no information, than to have information like this, with no sources."—referring to a rather unlikely statement about the founders of Google throwing pies at each other.
vteWikipedia referencingPolicies and guidelines
Verifiability
No original research
Biographies of living persons
Reliable sources
Medicine
Citing sources
Scientific citations
General advice
Citation needed
Find sources
Combining sources
Offline sources
Referencing styles
Citing sources
Citation Style 1
Citation Style 2
Citation Style Vancouver
LSA
Comics
Citation templates
Reflist template
Inline citations
Footnotes
Punctuation and footnotes
Shortened footnotes
Nesting footnotes
Help for beginners
Reference-tags
Citations quick reference
Introduction to referencing
Referencing with citation templates
Referencing without using templates
Referencing dos and don'ts
Citing Wikipedia
Advanced help
Cite link labels
Citation tools
Cite errors
Cite messages
Converting between references formats
Reference display customization
References and page numbers
Guidance on source reviewing at FAC
Template documentation
{{Edit refs}}
{{Refref}}
{{Refref2}}
{{Refstart}}
Tools
Wikipedia Library
Deprecated
Parenthetical referencing
vteWikipedia key policies and guidelines (?)
Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Content (?)P
Verifiability
No original research
Neutral point of view
What Wikipedia is not
Biographies of living persons
Copyright (Copyright violations)
Image use
Article titles
G
Notability
Autobiography
Citing sources
Reliable sources
Medicine
Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources
Plagiarism
Don't create hoaxes
Fringe theories
Patent nonsense
External links
Conduct (?)P
Civility
Consensus
Harassment
Vandalism
Ignore all rules
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Edit warring
Dispute resolution
Sockpuppetry
No legal threats
Child protection
Paid-contribution disclosure
G
Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers
Courtesy vanishing
Responding to threats of harm
Talk page guidelines
Signatures
Deletion (?)P
Deletion policy
Proposed deletion
Biographies
Criteria for speedy deletion
Attack page
Oversight
Revision deletion
Enforcement (?)P
Administrators
Banning
Blocking
Page protection
Editing (?)P
Editing policy
G
Article size
Summary style
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Broad-concept article
Understandability
Style
Manual of Style
Contents
Accessibility
Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists
Classification
Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace
Project content (?)G
Project namespace
WikiProjects
User pages
User boxes
Shortcuts
Subpages
WMF (?)P
Terms of Use
List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
List of all policies and guidelines
P: List of policies
G: List of guidelines
Summaries of values and principles
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Verifiability&oldid=1172111230"
Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia verifiabilityHidden category: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages
 This page was last edited on 25 August 2023, at 01:20 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width