Asia Times Online :: Southeast Asia news and business from Indonesia, 
Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam
525 captures
05 Oct 2009 - 26 Mar 2023
Sep
OCT
Nov
05
2008
2009
2010
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20091005004204/http://www.atimes.com:80/atimes/Southeast_Asia/KJ03Ae02.html
  
              
 
 
Front 
Page      
Greater China  China 
Business South 
Asia       Southeast 
Asia  Japan               Korea               Middle 
East      Central 
Asia      
World EconomyAsian 
EconomyIT 
World
Book 
Reviews   Letters              Forum              
 
    Southeast 
Asia
     Oct 3, 2009 
 
 
Indonesia cut from a different cloth
By Sara Schonhardt
JAKARTA - Similarities in culture, language and religious customs should make 
Indonesia and Malaysia good neighbors. But long-running spats over everything 
from territorial boundaries to cultural ownership of culinary dishes, dances, 
instruments and even Malaysia's national anthem have over the years hampered 
ties.
The staking of claims over each other's culture came to a colorful head this 
Friday when the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO) recognized batik, a wax-resistant dyeing technique, as 
part of Indonesia's distinct cultural heritage. Indonesian President Susilo 
Bambang Yudhoyono called for a party to celebrate the announcement and asked 
all Indonesians to wear their best batik garbs.
The Indonesian government expects UNESCO's recognition to
 
  
add a measure of protection to batik, despite the lack of any legally binding 
measures. By claiming the recognition, Indonesia agrees to take measures to 
promote and safeguard the tradition of batik-making, though the distinction 
does not impose any intellectual property rights over the technique. But it 
will nonetheless likely come as a snub to Malaysia, which also claims cultural 
ownership over the patterning method.
Batik is a way of hand-painting wax lines on cloth that is then dyed, explained 
designer and collector Josephine "Obin" Komara, who has collected batik clothes 
since the 1970s. "If you're talking about batik made in that way, it is only in 
Indonesia."
The motifs and colors on the cloth mean different things to different cultures. 
Indonesian batik typically incorporates folklore and flowers, also a common 
element in Malaysian batik, given their cultural similarities. In the past, 
patterns have also reflected one's social status. At present, Indonesia's 240 
million people typically wear Western fashions, with batik worn more by 
government employees or for formal occasions.
A similar cultural flareup between Malaysia and Indonesia broke out in 2007 
over the use of an Indonesian folk song, "Rasa Sayange", in a Malaysian tourism 
advertisement. That dispute sparked a resurgent nationalism among Indonesians, 
driving a newfound embrace for cultural items such as batik, and moving 
designers such as Edward Hutabarat to embark on a batik revival that saw a 
spike in local sales of the fabric.
The revival also saw synthetic batik flood in from China. Although definitions 
of batik now include cloth that is patterned using a machine, traditional batik 
is handmade, unlike the mass-market cloth Indonesia imports. With more 
synthetic batik on the market, vendors at Tanah Abang, Jakarta's largest 
textile market, have found they could only compete by producing their own 
machine-made batik, which they also sell to buyers in Singapore, Brunei and 
Malaysia.
Hera, a 30-year-old vendor wearing a sparkly black t-shirt and jeans, said she 
doesn't believe cultural protection of batik will do much to boost sales. 
"Business has been slow," she said. "Protection will only matter if people 
start buying."
Some designers say UNESCO's recognition comes too late to give Indonesia a 
market advantage in commercializing the tradition. "Indonesia has been really 
careless about claiming its heritage," said Sanchia Hamidjaja, 26, who designs 
leather bags with a trim and lining made from a rare and vibrant hand-drawn 
batik whose origins are ironically Chinese.
One man in a run-down section of Tanah Abang market believes the problem is not 
about batik, but rather stems from a lack of government support. "The 
government just doesn't protect small businesses," he said, explaining that 
while safeguarding batik is important, it won't help small businesses compete 
in an increasingly crowded market.
Sibling rivalry
Nor will it do much for regional goodwill. Politicians and academics often 
compare the relationship between Malaysia and Indonesia to that of two brothers 
always fighting over possessions. Since the batik spat began in August, 
Malaysia has claimed a host of shared cultural traditions as its own, including gamelan, 
a percussion instrument, and laksa, a spicy noodle soup.
These came in addition to the pendet, an Indonesian Balinese dance that 
sparked a dispute when it appeared in a promotional video for Malaysian tourism 
aired by the US-based Discovery Channel. "This was the last straw," said Yuli 
Ismartano, editor of Tempo Interaktif, a weekly news magazine. She said because 
of the Hindu traditions that make Bali so culturally distinct there was no 
mistaking that the dance originated in Malaysia. But the origins of many other 
art forms found throughout Southeast Asia, including batik, are more difficult 
to pinpoint.
The latest dispute over batik has provoked a spate of harsh newspaper 
editorials in Indonesia, setting off local protests. In early September, a 
group named the People's Democracy Defense set up identification checkpoints 
outside the Malaysian Embassy in Jakarta in an effort to screen for Malaysians, 
though what they would have done to them is unclear because they showed up 
empty handed. Members of the same group also have launched "sweeps" against the 
roughly 10,000 Malaysians now living, studying or working in Indonesia.
Indonesians and Malaysians can be fiercely nationalistic when comes to the 
other. During the 1960s, independence hero and then Indonesian president 
Sukarno's ultra-nationalism resulted in a campaign of Konfrontasi, or 
undeclared war with Malaysia, over the then-contested, now split, territory of 
Borneo. That led to the famous declaration "Ganyang Malaysia" ("Crush 
Malaysia"), which has appeared on protest banners over the past month 
near certain government offices.
For their part, many Malaysians tend to look down their noses at Indonesians as 
poorer and less sophisticated. The bilateral issue important to many Malaysians 
concerns migrant labor and minimum wage laws for Indonesians, who are valued as 
an abundant and cheap work source who understands the local language, Bahasa.
On points of contention between the two countries, Ibrahim Suffin, program 
director at the Merdeka Center, an opinion research firm based in Kuala Lumpur, 
said Malaysia has taken a more "capitalistic" view. Indonesia has take a more 
nationalistic one, driving grassroots support for cultural ownership of batik, 
said Chitra Aziza Subiyakto, a creative buyer at Alun Alun, a Jakarta 
department store that sells Indonesian cultural products.
Activists and collectors say UNESCO designation will improve international 
recognition and help educate Indonesian consumers about the need to preserve 
the country's heritage. "We can't deny globalization and the fact that there is 
a segment in the market that is always branded," said Tina Sutanto, marketing 
head for Alun Alun. She calls the UN's recognition "shock therapy" and hopes it 
will help revive the batik-making industry.
According to an estimate by Indonesia's Industry Ministry, foreign-made batik 
accounted for 10%, or Rp 290 billion (US$31 million) of the Rp2.9 trillion 
domestic market in 2008. At places like Alun Alun, local batik retails from 
anywhere between Rp200,000 and Rp2 million, compared to imported batik from 
China, which sells for about half that price.
Improving preservation efforts, education and respect is the main purpose of 
UNESCO's so-called Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural 
Heritage, which it defines as the "practices, expressions, knowledge and 
skills, that communities ... recognize as part of their cultural heritage." But 
UNESCO designation is merely a tool to ensure that states take action to 
protect these traditions from disappearing, said Masanori Nagaoka, program 
specialist for culture at Jakarta's UNESCO office.
However, it neither puts a patent on batik's production nor grants intellectual 
property right protection, Nagaoka said, explaining diplomatically that 
UNESCO's acceptance of Indonesia's application for recognition does not involve 
a discussion about the relationship between Indonesian and Malaysian batik.
Despite claiming batik as part of its cultural tradition, Malaysia has not 
submitted its own bid to UNESCO for the technique. Of the 90 items on the UN's 
intangible cultural heritage list, Indonesia has three - batik, wayang kulit
(shadow puppet theater) and the kris, a traditional dagger. Malaysia, which has 
not ratified the convention, has so far only submitted a bid for Mak Yong 
Theater, an ancient form of theater that incorporates ritual dancing and 
acting.
Unlike the heated discussions circulating in Indonesia, the batik issue has not 
run as hot in Malaysia. Even more economically substantive territorial 
disputes, such as the rights to the oil-rich region of Ambalat, which both 
Malaysia and Indonesia claim, are seldom talked about in Malaysia, said the 
Merdeka Center's Ibrahim.
"The average person doesn't see Indonesia as a threat, and he recognizes that 
the two countries have many commonalities and shared traditions," said Ibrahim. 
"Malaysians don't understand why Indonesia is so sensitive about its culture."
A September 9 newspaper editorial written by Malaysian Jamal Ibrahim argued 
that Malaysia's comparatively higher economic progress has sparked insecurity 
in Indonesia. Although Malaysia is geographically a third of the size of 
Indonesia, which spans 17,000 islands, its gross domestic product per capita of 
nearly US$14,500 is four times larger than Indonesia's.
Indonesian analysts, meanwhile, say that it's their country's poor ability to 
market its cultural heritage that contributes to its economic underperformance. 
When it comes to world heritage sites, the UN body likes to use the threat of 
delisting as an incentive to get governments to temper development plans in 
favor of preservation.
Whether UNESCO recognition of Indonesian batik acts as incentive for 
Indonesians to more fully embrace and protect their traditions is unclear. 
UNESCO, of course, has no authority to ensure that batik and its heritage is 
protected. But that doesn't matter to people like batik collector Obin. "It 
makes up what Indonesia is," she said. "Not claiming it would be like disowning 
your mother."
Sara Schonhardt is a freelance writer based in Jakarta, Indonesia. She 
has lived and worked in Southeast Asia for six years and has a master's degree 
in international affairs from Columbia University. 
(Copyright 2009 Asia Times Online (Holdings) Ltd. All rights reserved. Please 
contact us about 
sales, syndication and 
republishing.)
 
Taking 
the high ground at Preah Vihear (Jul 
25, '08)
Class clash 
mars Malaysia-Indonesia ties (Sep 
6, '07)
 
1. China maps an end to the Afghan 
war 
2. 
China's military struts its stuff
3. The 
night Zhou was drunk under the table
4. The 
case for Iran
5. It's 
bomb, bomb, bomb Iran time
6. 
If Afghanistan is its test, NATO is failing
7. China warily 
watches US-Myanmar detente
8. IMF beats 
gold-auction drum
9. China's 
eye on African agriculture
10. A 
culture at ease with war 
(24 hours to 11:59pm ET, Oct 1, 2009)
  
 
 
 
 
All material on this 
website is copyright and may not be republished in any form without written 
permission.
© Copyright 1999 - 2009 Asia Times 
Online (Holdings), Ltd.
Head 
Office: Unit B, 16/F, Li Dong Building, No. 9 Li Yuen Street East, 
Central, Hong Kong
Thailand Bureau:
11/13 Petchkasem Road, 
Hua Hin, Prachuab Kirikhan, Thailand 77110
 