Personality characteristics of Wikipedia members
  
    
    
    
    
      
  Personality characteristics of Wikipedia members
    
  
Cyberpsychol Behav. 2008 Dec;11(6):679-81.
        doi: 10.1089/cpb.2007.0225.
      
            Authors
          
Yair Amichai-Hamburger 
                1
              , Naama Lamdan, Rinat Madiel, Tsahi Hayat
            Affiliation
          
1 The Research Center for Internet Psychology (CIP), Sammy Ofer School of Communications, Interdisciplinary Center (IDC), Herzliya, Israel. yairah@idc.ac.il
    
      PMID:
    
  
      18954273
    
    
      DOI:
    
  
      10.1089/cpb.2007.0225
    
        Abstract
        
      
      
      Wikipedia is an online, free access, volunteer-contributed encyclopedia. This article focuses on the Wikipedians' (Wikipedia users) personality characteristics, studying Wikipedians' conceptions of Real-Me and BFI dimensions. To survey these aspects, we posted links to two online web questionnaires; one was targeted at Wikipedians and the second to non-Wikipedia users. One hundred and thirty-nine subjects participated in the study, of which 69 were active Wikipedia members. It was found that Wikipedia members locate their real me on the Internet more frequently as compared to non-Wikipedia members. Variance analysis revealed significant differences between Wikipedia members and non-Wikipedia members in agreeableness, openness, and conscientiousness, which were lower for the Wikipedia members. An interaction was found between Wikipedia membership and gender: introverted women were more likely to be Wikipedia members as compared with extroverted women. The results of this study are discussed with special emphasis on the understanding of the motivators of Wikipedia members.
    
        MeSH terms
      
                  
                    
  Adult
                  
                
                  
                    
  Female
                  
                
                  
                    
  Humans
                  
                
                  
                    
  Internet*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Introversion, Psychological
                  
                
                  
                    
  Male
                  
                
                  
                    
  Motivation
                  
                
                  
                    
  Personality*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Social Behavior*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Surveys and Questionnaires
                  
                