Geometry And Topology Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Geometry And Topology25,562 FollowersMost downloaded papers in Geometry And TopologyTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleM Nakahara_Geometry, Topology and PhysicsSave to LibraryDownloadby Hai-Yao DENG•  2  Geometry And Topology, Theorectical PhysicsGeneralizations of the properties of Neuberg cubic to the Euler pencil of isopivotal cubicsThis paper discusses results that arise in specific configurations pertaining to invariance under isoconjugation. The results lead to revolutionary theorems and crucial properties in both Euclidean and Projective geometry. After... moreThis paper discusses results that arise in specific configurations pertaining to invariance under isoconjugation. The results lead to revolutionary theorems and crucial properties in both Euclidean and Projective geometry. After discussion of important theorems and properties of associated configurations, the authors present and prove an important, new result and its application in difficult geometrical configurations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Zelich and +1Xuming  Liang•  18  Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Algebra, Geometry And TopologyThe Einstein unified field theory completed:  A direct challenge to the basic assumptions, theories and direction of modern and post-modern physics (1st Edition)The golden ring to which most physicists aspire is a unified field theory that incorporates all of modern and classical physics. Some scientists and others call this a TOE or ‘theory of everything’, but it is no more than false hubris to... moreThe golden ring to which most physicists aspire is a unified field theory that incorporates all of modern and classical physics. Some scientists and others call this a TOE or ‘theory of everything’, but it is no more than false hubris to believe that humans could possibly know and explain everything about the universe at this time. Einstein chased this goal for the last three decades of his life, basing his theoretical research on his general theory of relativity. Meanwhile, the vast majority of scientists supporting the other major accomplishment of the Second Scientific Revolution were investing all of their time and efforts to advancing the quantum theory and their quest has been extremely successful. They originally had no interest in a unified field theory. After Einstein died in 1955, his efforts were all but abandoned because of his philosophical stance against the prevalent Copenhagen Interpretation of quantum theory even though he had been one of quantum theory’s founders. During the 1970s the tables started to turn and quantum theorists became interested in unifying physics, although not from the foundational principles of relativity theory. They claimed that quantum theory was more fundamental than relativity so they began the same quest from a totally different direction despite their claims to be continuing Einstein’s quest.  Throughout the development of the ensuing standard quantum model, superstring theory and many other theoretical schemes, quantum theorists have remained resolute in their conviction that the quantum and relativity are mutually incompatible so the quantum must completely do away with and replace relativity once and for all. However, the quantum theory and relativity are not actually incompatible and, in fact, say the some of the same things about the nature of physical reality. When the similarities are fully defined and studied and the basic assumptions behind each of the theories are altered to reflect the similarities instead of the incompatibilities, only then can the point of their compatibility be determined and act as a unifying principle resulting in a completed unified field theory of the type that Einstein once sought. The development of this physical model of reality is not without irony. Not only is the quantum theory incomplete as Einstein argued in EPR, but Einstein’s general relativity is also seriously incomplete and true unification cannot be rendered complete at any level of reality until all the theoretical models being unified are themselves complete.Save to LibraryDownloadby James (Jim) E Beichler•  132  Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, Algebraic Geometry, Non Euclidean GeometrySexuated Topology and the Suspension of Meaning: A Non-Hermeneutical Phenomenological Approach to Textual Analysis"ABSTRACT: This study assumes the subject's pursuit of meaning is generally incapacitating and should be suspended. It aims to demonstrate how such a suspension is theoretically accomplished by utilizing Lacan's formulae of... more"ABSTRACT:     This study assumes the subject's pursuit of meaning is generally incapacitating and should be suspended. It aims to demonstrate how such a suspension is theoretically accomplished by utilizing Lacan's formulae of sexuation integrated with his work in discourse theory and topology.     Part I places this study into context by examining scholarship from the established fields of hermeneutics, phenomenology, (post)structuralism, aesthetic theory and psychoanalysis in order to extract out their respective theory of meaning. These theories reveal that an historical struggle with meaning has been underway since the Reformation and reaches near crisis proportions in the 20th century. On the one hand this crisis is mollified by the rise of Heideggerian-Gadamerian hermeneutical phenomenology which questions traditional epistemological approaches to the text using a new ontological conceptualization of meaning and a conscious rejection of methodology. On the other hand this crisis is exacerbated when the ubiquitous nature of meaning is itself challenged by (post)structuralism's discovery of the signifier which inscribes a limit to meaning, and by the domains of sense and nonsense newly opened up by aesthetic theory. These historical developments culminate in the field of psychoanalysis which most consequentially delimits a cause of meaning said to be closely linked to the core of subjectivity.     Part II extends these findings by rigorously constructing out of the Lacanian sexuated formulae a decidedly non-hermeneutical phenomenological approach useful in demonstrating the sexual nature of meaning. Explicated in their static state by way of an account of their original derivation from the Aristotelian logical square, it is argued that these four formulae are relevant to basic concerns of textual theory inclusive of the hermeneutical circle of meaning. These formulae are then set into motion by integrating them with Lacan's four discourses to demonstrate the breakdown of meaning. Finally, the cuts and sutures of two-dimensional space that is topology as set down in L'étourdit are performed to confirm how the very field of meaning is ultimately suspended from a nonsensical singular point known in Lacanian psychoanalysis as objet a. The contention is that by occupying this point the subject frees himself from the debilitating grip of meaning."Save to LibraryDownloadby William J. Urban•  486  Discourse Analysis, History of Linguistics, Philology, PsychoanalysisCombinatorial Geometry with applications to Field Theory(second edtion)Save to LibraryDownloadby Linfan Mao•Geometry And TopologyARCHITECTURE AS SCIENCE OF PATTERNThe basic premise of this work is to consider architecture as the result of the interrelationship between its constituent parts: aesthetic, tectonics, social, environmental , cultural, and organizational. When the project is focused only... moreThe basic premise of this work is to consider architecture as the result of the interrelationship between its constituent parts: aesthetic, tectonics, social, environmental , cultural, and organizational. When the project is focused only on one or a few of these levels, this is when hollow formalisms are generated. The main aim here is to demonstrate that patterns are able to facilitate the interaction and integration ofthese constituents. The rise of computation in architecture has had the effect of diluting the natural thought process of the architect. This paper therefore, helps to fill that theoretical void in parametric design. Hence, new tools are needed to analyse and understand architectural phenomena. For this to happen, the relationship between mathematical models and architecture needs to be cemented, and from here on after, pattern needs to be seen as an invaluable component of architecture. A methodology based on my belief that Complexity Theory could be the basis for interpreting architecture and pattern as structure, in order to transform the abstract into reality.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carmelo Zappulla•  12  Geometry And Topology, Aesthetics, Architecture, Landscape ArchitectureGeometric Theorems, Diophantine Equations, and Arithmetic FunctionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Florentin Smarandache•  5  Mathematics, Number Theory, Applied Mathematics, Geometry And TopologyGEOMETRY, TOPOLOGY AND PHYSICS BY NAKAHARAGRADUATE STUDENT SERIES IN PHYSICS GEOMETRY, TOPOLOGY AND PHYSICS SECOND EDITION BY NAKAHARA MSave to Libraryby Akshay SB•  14  Mathematics, Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, PhysicsThe Path Integral Formulation Of Quantum Mechanics & Its Topological ApplicationsIn this report, we deliver a detailed introduction to the methods of path integration in the focus of quantum mechanics. After an overview of the techniques of integration and the relationship to the familiar results of quantum mechanics... moreIn this report, we deliver a detailed introduction to the methods of path integration in the focus of quantum mechanics. After an overview of the techniques of integration and the relationship to the familiar results of quantum mechanics such as the Schroedinger equation, we study some of the applications to mechanical systems with non-trivial degrees of freedom and discuss the advantages that path integration has as a formulation in studying these systems. To this end, in chapter 3, we introduce the topological concept of homotopy classes, and apply this to derive the spin statistics theorem, and discuss the phenomenon of parastatistics for systems constrained to dimension d<3. Following on from this, we calculate a general formula for the quantum mechanical propagator in terms of path integrals over different homotopy classes. The final chapter of this report studies the so called instanton solution as a way of describing quantum mechanical vacuum tunneling effects as a semi-classical problem. We conclude with discussing some applications in gauge field theory and describe the topological quality of the classical vacua of SU(2) Yang-Mills gauge theory; apply the path integral method to arrive at the theta-vacuum, and briefly say a few words about its far reaching consequences and applications.\\The content is aimed predominantly at a mathematical audience with a physical interest, moreover, we assume that the reader has a good grounding in topology and in both the classical and quantum mechanical theories. For completeness, essentials of these topics are reviewed in the appendices. (NOTE: Previous version uploaded was an earlier draft accidentally uploaded. This is the correct final version)Save to LibraryDownloadby Josh Cork•  6  Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, Quantum Physics, Quantum MechanicsRemarks on mechanical approach to observable UniverseWe consider the Universe deep inside the cell of uniformity. At these scales, the Universe is filled with inhomogeneously distributed discrete structures (galaxies, groups and clusters of galaxies), which perturb the background Friedmann... moreWe consider the Universe deep inside the cell of uniformity. At these scales, the Universe is filled with inhomogeneously distributed discrete structures (galaxies, groups and clusters of galaxies), which perturb the background Friedmann model. Here, the mechanical approach (Eingorn & Zhuk, 2012) is the most appropriate to describe the dynamics of the inhomogeneities which is defined, on the one hand, by gravitational potentials of inhomogeneities and, on the other hand, by the cosmological expansion of the Universe. In this paper, we present additional arguments in favor of this approach. First, we estimate the size of the cell of uniformity. With the help of the standard methods of statistical physics and for the galaxies of the type of the Milky Way and Andromeda, we get that it is of the order of 190 Mpc which is rather close to observations. Then, we show that the nonrelativistic approximation (with respect to the peculiar velocities) is valid for $z \lesssim 10$, i.e. approximately for 13 billion years from the present moment. We consider scalar perturbations and, within the $\Lambda$CDM model, justify the main equations. Moreover, we demonstrate that radiation can be naturally incorporated into our scheme. This emphasizes the viability of our approach. This approach gives a possibility to analyze different cosmological models and compare them with the observable Universe. For example, we indicate some problematic aspects of the spatially flat models. Such models require a rather specific distribution of the inhomogeneities to get a finite potential at any points outside gravitating masses. We also criticize the application of the Schwarzschild-de Sitter solution to the description of the motion of test bodies on the cosmological background.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maxim Eingorn•  126  Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, Physics, Theoretical PhysicsThe Geometry of Homological TrianglesSave to LibraryDownloadby Florentin Smarandache•  3  Mathematics, Geometry And Topology, Mathematics EducationSpace and Time Minkowski's Papers on Relativity Free VersionSave to LibraryDownloadby Dr.Manuel  Malaver de la Fuente•  3  Geometry And Topology, Theoretical Physics, General RelativityAutomorphism Groups of Maps, Surfaces and Smarandache GeometriesSave to LibraryDownloadby Florentin Smarandache•  2  Mathematics, Geometry And TopologyThe Applicability of Mathematics to Physical ModalityThis paper argues that scientific realism commits us to a metaphysical determination relation between the mathematical entities that are indispensible to scientific explanation and the modal structure of the empirical phenomena those... moreThis paper argues that scientific realism commits us to a metaphysical determination relation between the mathematical entities that are indispensible to scientific explanation and the modal structure of the empirical phenomena those entities explain. The argument presupposes that scientific realism commits us to the indispensability argument. The view presented here is that the indispensability of mathematics commits us not only to the existence of mathematical structures and entities but to a metaphysical determination relation between those entities and the modal structure of the physical world. The no-miracles argument is the primary motivation for scientific realism. It is a presupposition of this argument that unobservable entities are explanatory only when they determine the empirical phenomena they explain. I argue that mathematical entities should also be seen as explanatory only when they determine the empirical facts they explain, namely, the modal structure of the physical world. Thus, scientific realism commits us to a metaphysical determination relation between mathematics and physical modality that has not been previously recognized. The requirement to account for the metaphysical dependence of modal physical structure on mathematics limits the class of acceptable solutions to the applicability problem that are available to the scientific realist.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nora Berenstain•  22  Evolutionary Biology, Applied Mathematics, Mathematical Physics, Geometry And TopologyLes principes de la connaissance naturelle d’Alfred North Whitehead — Alfred North Whitehead’s Principles of Natural Knowledge"Guillaume Durand et Michel Weber (éditeurs), Les principes de la connaissance naturelle d’Alfred North Whitehead — Alfred North Whitehead’s Principles of Natural Knowledge. Actes des Journées d’étude internationales tenues à l’Université... more"Guillaume Durand et Michel Weber (éditeurs), Les principes de la connaissance naturelle d’Alfred North Whitehead — Alfred North Whitehead’s Principles of Natural Knowledge. Actes des Journées d’étude internationales tenues à l’Université de Nantes, les 3 et 4 octobre 2005 — Proceedings of the Fourth International “Chromatiques whiteheadiennes” Conference. Publiés avec le concours du Département de philosophie de l'Université de Nantes, Frankfurt / Paris / Lancaster, ontos verlag, Chromatiques whiteheadiennes VIII, 2007. (280 p. ; ISBN 978-3-938793-64-0 ; 89 €) Les quatrièmes journées « Chromatiques » interrogèrent la philosophie des sciences de la nature qui est caractéristique de l’ « époque de Londres », prolongeant ainsi les travaux menés à Liège (2001) puis à Louvain-la-Neuve (2003). L’objet central de cette rencontre était l’œuvre pionnière dans la philosophie whiteheadienne de la nature : An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Natural Knowledge (1919/1925), dont tous les principaux traits — à commencer par la méthode de l'abstraction extensive — font ici l'objet de nouvelles réflexions.The fourth international « Chromatiques whiteheadiennes » conference was devoted to the philosophy of the natural sciences that is characteristic of Whitehead’s « London Epoch ». Continuing the efforts of the Liège (2001) and Louvain-la-Neuve (2003) meetings, the conference focused on An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Natural Knowledge (CUP, 1919/1925) which constitutes Whitehead’s pioneering work in the field. All its main traits — starting with the Method of Extensive Abstraction — are here questioned anew."Save to LibraryDownloadby Michel Weber•  30  Geometry And Topology, Aristotle, Anthropology of the Body, RhythmInverse Quadratic Interpolation MethodThis research discusses a root-finding algorithm in a more efficient way. This presents the inverse quadratic interpolation method for finding the root(s) of a function.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mark James Magnaye•  5  Actuarial Science, Geometry And Topology, Operations Research, Quantitative MethodsConnections Between Architectural Design and Mathematical PatternsThe history of architecture presents many examples of architects’ autonomously discovering and using mathematical structures and patterns. Historically this kind of quasi architectural-mathematical discovery was the product of the... moreThe history of architecture presents many examples of architects’ autonomously discovering and using mathematical structures and patterns. Historically this kind of quasi architectural-mathematical discovery was the product of the architect’s intuition and inspiration, and was not subject to rigorous mathematical treatment. However, in some sense the application of mathematical patterns is perfectly deliberate. Although this kind of geometry was probably not even known to mathematicians when these works were conceived, its presence could nonetheless be easily observed in nature. How and in what sense does nature instantiate these geometries?  One could say, albeit naively, that mathematics provides us with abstract and general models, whereas nature utilises them with a certain degree of freedom, insofar as it is constrained by external factors such as the quality of the soil, the amount of sunlight available, the presence of plants, etc.  The metaphor of nature’s interpreting geometry also helps us discard as a misunderstanding any reductive interpretation of the architect’s work as being exclusively based on an out of hand and uncritical use of geometrical patterns. The process of using patterns has to be conceived of as an intellectual exchange between the ideal elements of geometry and architecture’s pragmatism.  One of the major goals of this paper is to demonstrate, by using historical and contemporary evidence, patterns’ aptness to suit the high demands of contemporary architectural work. I argue that this is not specifically related to today’s architectural scenario. On the contrary, a substantial part of the article is devoted to the examination of how architects have taken advantage of the opportunities offered by mathematics and their respective contributions to the advancement of mathematics. In particular, I will be looking at three case study examples of this connection between architecture and mathematics, which will help bring to light the following:  1. how mathematics can be reduced to visual patterns, which offer a wide range of formal and diagrammatic interpretation within architectural work,2. how the use of mathematical patterns does not restrain the designer’s creativity (on the contrary, its abstract characteristics can produce novelties), 3. whether – consciously or unconsciously – mathematical patterns are formal tools which allow coherence,4. how mathematical patterns can help the systemic development of a project, and5. how geometry can induce formal control, but cannot ensure the project’s success alone. The paper is essentially an expository survey, and includes detailed analysis within the later sections. I will begin by defining mathematical patterns.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carmelo Zappulla•  8  Mathematics, Geometry And Topology, Computer Science, ArchitectureThe Privatisation of Space (English)English Translation of French. See on academis.edu La Privatisation de l'Espace Systematic analysis of the procedures by which everyday space is characterized as "private". A set of experiments, led in the convent of La Tourette... moreEnglish Translation of French. See on academis.eduLa Privatisation de l'EspaceSystematic analysis of the procedures by which everyday space is characterized as "private". A set of experiments, led in the convent of La Tourette (Architect: Le Corbusier), serves as starting point, complemented by anthropological observations in Japan. Semioitc concepts are used in order to extract logical relations. The analysis leads to consider human relations as expressed through spatial means.Save to LibraryDownloadby Manar  HAMMAD•  9  Semiotics, Geometry And Topology, Anthropology, LogicAmalgamating Lacan’s Formulae of Sexuation, Discourse Theory and TopologyThis talk was given at the Toronto Psychoanalytic Society on July 13, 2014.Save to LibraryDownloadby William J. Urban•  294  Discourse Analysis, Psychoanalysis, Mathematics, Applied Mathematics“La arquitectura romana de la Lusitania: antecedentes, métodos y objetivos para el análisis de las técnicas constructivas”, Documenta 29, 2017, pp. 29-37, Tarragona.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonio Pizzo•  43  Cultural Studies, Geometry And Topology, Archaeology, Classical ArchaeologyConspectus of J. R. Smythies' Theories of Mind, Matter, and N-Dimensional SpaceConspectus of part of John R. Smythies' Analysis of Perception (1956). It presents a summary of his ideas on phenomenal space – the space of one’s imagination, dreams, psychedelic experiences, somatic sensations, visions, hynagogia, etc.... moreConspectus of part of John R. Smythies' Analysis of Perception (1956). It presents a summary of his ideas on phenomenal space – the space of one’s imagination, dreams, psychedelic experiences, somatic sensations, visions, hynagogia, etc. – and its relation to physical space.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Sjöstedt-Hughes•  13  Geometry And Topology, Philosophy of Mind, Perception, Altered States of ConsciousnessMODERN FYSICS PHALLACIES: THE BEST WAY NOT TO UNIFY PHYSICSToo many physicists believe the ‘phallacy’ that the quantum is more fundamental than relativity without any valid supporting evidence, so the earliest attempts to unify physics based on the continuity of relativity have been all but... moreToo many physicists believe the ‘phallacy’ that the quantum is more fundamental than relativity without any valid supporting evidence, so the earliest attempts to unify physics based on the continuity of relativity have been all but abandoned. This belief is probably due to the wealth of pro-quantum propaganda and general ‘phallacies in fysics’ that were spread during the second quarter of the twentieth century, although serious ‘phallacies’ exist throughout physics on both sides of the debate. Yet both approaches are basically flawed because both relativity and the quantum theory are incomplete and grossly misunderstood as they now stand. Had either side of the quantum versus relativity controversy sought common ground between the two worldviews, total unification would have been accomplished long ago. The point is, literally, that the discrete quantum, continuous relativity, basic physical geometry, theoretical mathematics and classical physics all share one common characteristic that has never been fully explored or explained – a paradoxical duality between a dimensionless point (discrete) and an extended length (continuity) in any dimension – and if the problem of unification is approached from an understanding of how this paradox relates to each paradigm, all of physics and indeed all of science could be unified under a single new theoretical paradigm. Keywords: unification, single field theory, unified field theory, quantized space-time, five-dimensional space-time, quantum,  relativity, hidden variables, Einstein, Kaluza, Klein, CliffordSave to LibraryDownloadby James (Jim) E Beichler•  38  Geometry And Topology, Theoretical Physics, Nuclear Physics, Quantum Physicsf(R) gravity: scalar perturbations in the late UniverseIn this paper we study scalar perturbations of the metric for nonlinear $f(R)$ models. We consider the Universe at the late stage of its evolution and deep inside the cell of uniformity. We investigate the astrophysical approach in the... moreIn this paper we study scalar perturbations of the metric for nonlinear $f(R)$ models. We consider the Universe at the late stage of its evolution and deep inside the cell of uniformity. We investigate the astrophysical approach in the case of Minkowski spacetime background and two cases in the cosmological approach, the large scalaron mass approximation and the quasi-static approximation, getting explicit expressions for scalar perturbations for both these cases. In the most interesting quasi-static approximation, the scalar perturbation functions depend on both the nonlinearity function $f(R)$ and the scale factor $a$. Hence, we can study the dynamical behavior of the inhomogeneities (e.g., galaxies and dwarf galaxies) including into consideration their gravitational attraction and the cosmological expansion, and also taking into account the effects of nonlinearity. Our investigation is valid for functions $f(R)$ which have stable de Sitter points in future with respect to the present time, that is typical for the most popular $f(R)$ models.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maxim Eingorn•  107  Mathematical Physics, Field Theory, Geometry And Topology, Physics“Lo studio dei tracciati di cantiere nel mondo romano: metodologie e nuove prospettive di ricerca”, Documenta 29, 2017, pp. 231-244, Tarragona.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonio Pizzo and +1CARLO INGLESE•  29  Geometry And Topology, Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, ClassicsArquitectura BiodigitalLa rápida e intensiva evolución que han experimentado las tecnologías biológicas y digitales a finales del siglo XX, han producido importantes transformaciones en nuestros hábitos cotidianos y laborales. En el campo específico de la... moreLa rápida e intensiva evolución que han experimentado las tecnologías biológicas y digitales a finales del siglo XX, han producido importantes transformaciones en nuestros hábitos cotidianos y laborales.En el campo específico de la arquitectura, se iniciaba con esto, un universo de nuevos planteos que desafían las concepciones tradicionales del diseño, dando lugar a una arquitectura con una expresión espacial germinal, fluida, en continuo proceso de cambio y de transformación hasta su concreción física final. Una arquitectura de modelos digitales producidas a través de una amplia gama de herramientas tecnológicas: modelos paramétricos, algoritmos genéticos, tecnologías CAD/CAM, que permiten optimizar los recursos de un modo lógico, más allá de la construcción gráfica o del discurso exclusivamente conceptual. Revelando el peso de lo biológico y de lo digital en la práctica del arquitecto contemporáneo.En este ámbito, la presente investigación parte de la hipótesis de que un nuevo paradigma está surgiendo en el modo de concebir la arquitectura. Dentro de la situación contemporánea donde los límites disciplinares parecieran ser difusos, algunos afirman que la arquitectura biodigital es la nueva vanguardia, otros que es una moda formalista pasajera que en muy poco tiempo será olvidada. Hasta qué punto constituye dicho marco un nuevo paradigma es aún un tema sometido a debate. ¿“Revolución científica” o “anomalía”? Esta dicotomía presenta un campo abierto que será objeto de esta investigación cuyos límites y consecuencias son impredecibles.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marcelo Fraile Narvaez•  20  Geometry And Topology, Genetic Algorithms, Swarm Intelligence, Digital CultureA new 98% soft-switching full-bridge DC-DC converter based on secondary-side LC resonant principle for PV generation systemsThis paper is mainly concerned with the state-of-the-art feasible development of a novel prototype high-efficiency phase-shift soft-switching pulse modulated full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which... moreThis paper is mainly concerned with the state-of-the-art feasible development of a novel prototype high-efficiency phase-shift soft-switching pulse modulated full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which is designed for utility-grid tied photovoltaic (PV) power inverters. The proposed high-frequency transformer (HFTR) link DC-DC converter topology is based upon a new conceptual secondary-side series resonant principle and its inherent nature. All the active power switches in the HFTR primary-side can achieve lossless capacitive snubber-based ZVS with the aid of transformer parasitic inductances. In addition to this, passive power switches in its secondary-side can also perform ZVS and ZCS transitions for input voltage and load variations. In the first place, the operation principle of the newly-proposed DC-DC converter and some remarkable features are described in this paper on the basis of the simulation analysis. In the second place, the 5 kW experimental setup of the DC-DC converter treated here is demonstrated and its experimental results are illustrated from a practical point of view. Finally, some comparative evaluations between simulation and experimental data are actually discussed and considered in this paper, together with its future works. http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6147399Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Saad  Mekhilef•  17  Geometry And Topology, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc ConvertersA novel type high-efficiency high-frequency-linked full-bridge DC-DC converter operating under secondary-side series resonant principle for high-power PV generationThis paper is mainly concerned with the development of a new state-of-the-art prototype, high-efficiency, phase-shift, soft-switching, pulse-modulated, full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which is... moreThis paper is mainly concerned with the development of a new state-of-the-art prototype, high-efficiency, phase-shift, soft-switching, pulse-modulated, full-bridge DC-DC power converter with a high-frequency power transformer, which is designed for utility-grid-tied photovoltaic (PV) power inverters. The proposed high-frequency transformer (HFTR) link DC-DC converter topology is based on a new conceptual secondary-side series resonant principle and its inherent nature. All the active power switches on the HFTR primary side can achieve lossless capacitive snubber-based zero-voltage switching (ZVS) with the aid of transformer parasitic inductances. Moreover, passive power switches on its secondary side can also perform ZVS and zero-current switching (ZCS) transitions for input voltage and load variations. First, the operation principle of the newly proposed DC-DC converter and some of its noteworthy features are described in this paper on the basis of the results of analysis by simulation. Then, the experimental setup of the DC-DC converter with an output of 5 kW treated here is demonstrated and its experimental results are discussed from a practical viewpoint. Finally, some comparative evaluations between simulation and experimental data are discussed and considered, together with future works. © 2012 IEEE. http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6477251Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Saad  Mekhilef•  15  Geometry And Topology, Dc-Dc Converters, Power Electronics, Dc-Dc Converters, Power transformersThe point of unification in theoretical physicsIt would seem to many physicists that the unification of physics within a single paradigmatic theory has been the primary goal in science for only the past few decades, but this would not be true. Unification was the original goal of... moreIt would seem to many physicists that the unification of physics within a single paradigmatic theory has been the primary goal in science for only the past few decades, but this would not be true.  Unification was the original goal of Einstein and a few other physicists from the 1920s to the 1960s, before quantum theorists began to think in terms of unification. However, both approaches are basically flawed because they are individually incomplete as they now stand. Had either side of the controversy just simplified their worldview and sought commonality between the two, unification would have been accomplished long ago. The point is, literally, that the discrete quantum, continuous relativity, basic physical geometry and classical physics all share one common characteristic – a paradoxical duality between a dimensionless point and an extended length in any dimension – and if the problem of unification is approached from an understanding of how this problem relates to each paradigm all of physics could be unified under a single new theoretical paradigm.Save to LibraryDownloadby James (Jim) E Beichler•  38  Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, Non Euclidean Geometry, PhysicsQuadratura e Scienza della Rappresentazione. Uno dei possibili approcci al tema della prospettiva parietale è quello di partire con il porsi la domanda: perché nasce la quadratura? Chi decide per questo tipo di decorazione parietale? Come avviene la scelta del pittore di quadro? E,... moreUno dei possibili approcci al tema della prospettiva parietale è quello di partire con il porsi la domanda: perché nasce la quadratura? Chi decide per questo tipo di decorazione parietale? Come avviene la scelta del pittore di quadro? E, infine, come si muove l’artista dal momento in cui il lavoro gli viene proposto fino a quando la sua opera viene “collaudata”?Si tratta di indagare le motivazioni del committente e quelle del progetto decorativo, di entrare nel meccanismo che porta dall’esigenza (parete da decorare e volontà del committente) all’opera realizzata (progetto dell’illusione e sua realizzazione in situ). Queste dicotomie committente-artista, ambiente reale-ambiente illusorio, tecnica prospettica-risultato artistico rappresentano la caratteristica prima delle opere che rientrano nel grande capitolo della decorazione quadraturista e implicano la difficoltà, spesso riconosciuta dagli studiosi, di scindere progetto iconografico e progetto prospettico. Se però l’indagine della componente figurativa è stata ampiamente discussa nell’ambito storico-artistico cui naturalmente compete, dove inizia la pertinenza degli studiosi di Storia della Rappresentazione e di costruzione prospettica?Il testo ipotizza che si possa a ragione affermare che è proprio nel momento in cui la commessa è partita e il committente ha temporaneamente alienato le sue necessità affidandole all’artista che inizia quel capitolo che riguarda da vicino l’approccio degli architetti. È in questo momento, infatti, che entra in ballo la questione progettuale: l’artista comincia a lavorare al “progetto di illusione” che coinvolge l’interpretazione stessa dello spazio architettonico in cui l’opera sarà realizzata, che implica una sua trasformazione, sia pure con i soli mezzi dell’illusione, una astuta interpretazione della fruizione dello spazio reale che prelude al coinvolgimento guidato dell’osservatore e delle sue percezioni attenuto atraverso lo strumento prospettico utilizzato nel pieno della sua espressione.KEY WORDS: Quadratura, Quadratrurismo, Scienza della Rappresentazione, prospettiva, restituzione, superfici, Vallombrosa, Abbazia, raddrizzamentoSave to LibraryDownloadby Laura  CARLEVARIS•  8  Geometry And Topology, History of Perspective in Painting, History of Architectural Representation, GeometryHCR's Theory of Polygon (solid angle subtended by any polygonal plane at any point in the space)This theory had been proposed by H.C. Rajpoot @ his college presently M.M.M. University of Technology, GKP-273010 in Oct, 2013, for finding out the solid angle subtended by any polygonal plane at any point in the space. It gives the... moreThis theory had been proposed by H.C. Rajpoot @ his college presently M.M.M. University of Technology, GKP-273010 in Oct, 2013, for finding out the solid angle subtended by any polygonal plane at any point in the space. It gives the simplest, easiest & the most versatile methods for calculating the mathematically correct value of solid angle subtended by any plane bounded by the straight lines like triangle, quadrilateral like rectangle, square, rhombus, trapezium etc., any regular or irregular polygon like pentagon, hexagon, heptagon, octagon etc.) at any point in the space. It is the unified theory applied for any polygon by using one standard formula only. This can derive expression for solid angle subtended by any plane bounded by the straight lines. This theory is equally applicable for atomic distances & stellar distances in the Universe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Harish Chandra Rajpoot•  6  Thermal Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, Applied Mathematics, AlgebraIt Follows: Horror in a Straight LineIn this article for cult media journal Intentisities, I review David Robert Mitchell's film "It Follows" (2014). My reading is primarily formalist, arguing the film to be predominantly concerned with straight lines, both aesthetically and... moreIn this article for cult media journal Intentisities, I review David Robert Mitchell's film "It Follows" (2014). My reading is primarily formalist, arguing the film to be predominantly concerned with straight lines, both aesthetically and existentially. As the film moves around an eerily post-apocalyptic Detroit, the straight line emmerges as the source of all that is monstrous, conducting its violence through the rigid geometries of inescapable architectures, infrastructures and lives.Save to LibraryDownloadby Benjamin Dalton•  13  Geometry And Topology, Film Studies, Film Theory, Violence“Il ‘Dique’ del fiume Guadiana a Mérida: analisi costruttiva, Documenta 29, 2017, pp. 199-214, Tarragona.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonio Pizzo and +1Stefano Camporeale•  27  Geometry And Topology, Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, ClassicsSmarandache Multi-Space TheorySave to LibraryDownloadby Florentin Smarandache•  3  Mathematics, Geometry And Topology, General RelativityDOPO EUCLIDE: ARCHITETTURE E SUGGESTIONI DALLE “ALTRE” GEOMETRIEGeometry, that was born to study and decribe forms, has always been related to architecture. Architecture history shows how it has been as well element of design and measuring, thus an important tool for structure control. In facts... moreGeometry, that was born to study and decribe forms, has always been related to architecture. Architecture history shows how it has been as well element of design and measuring, thus an important tool for structure control. In facts knowledge in geometry conditioned the building and, before that, the project; so new cognitions influences architecture and may clear the way to new formal developements. One of the first examples was the use of ellipse, and short later ovals, in anphiteatres plan after Apollonio’s study of conics. Later, geometry studies offered new topics to architects formal research, such as perspective applications in quadrature and anamorphosis in the baroque architecture, or the analityc developments of quadric surfaces designed by contemporary engeneers (Nervi, Candela, Torroja, etc.). Each time the new discoveries acted on architecture both suggesting the developement new forms and offering new project instruments. So mathematicians work leaves its spurs on contemporary architecture, but nineteenth century studies of non Euclidean geometry, due to the not easy representation of n-dimension spaces. Only in last decades of twentieth century the birth of computer graphics allowed the virtual building of objects related to “other” geometry, such as hypercube and topological surfaces; later the computer aided design permitted the planning of architectures with quite innovative formes, such as Gerhy’s and Eisenmann’s ones. But before that we may find spaces related to non Euclidean geometry in M. C. Escher’s graphic work, who developed his lifelong research working together with mathematicians and first offered seeing representation of their concepts.ReferencesGiuseppa di Cristina, Architettura e Topologia. Per una teoria spaziale dell’architettura, Editrice Librerie Dedalo, 2004.Nicoletta Sala, Gabriele Cappellato, Architetture della complessità, la geometria frattale tra arte, architettura e territorio, Franco Angeli, Milano, 2004.Massimiliano Ciammaichella, Architettura in Nurbs, Il disegno digitale della deformazione, Testo & immagine, Torino 2002.Michele Emmer, La quarta dimensione (euclidea): matematica e arte, in Matematica e Cultura 2001, Sprinter Italia, Milano, 2001, pagg. 201-215Bruno Ernst, Lo specchio magico di Escher, Taschen Verlag, Berlino, 1990.Save to LibraryDownloadby michela  rossi•  6  Geometry And Topology, Non Euclidean Geometry, Architecture, Architectural TheoryA new method for planning urban bus transportation paths using GISPlanning of bus transportation system is one of the most important parts in the planning of public transportation systems. This planning is difficult because of some inconsistent goals. For example, we cannot expect that paths planned for... morePlanning of bus transportation system is one of the most important parts in the planning of public transportation systems. This planning is difficult because of some inconsistent goals. For example, we cannot expect that paths planned for minimum travel time also have maximum coverage and access. In order to attaining the best solution, we must consider many criteria. In this paper, a new GIS-based model is proposed for planning bus transportation system. This model is based on the travel distribution between urban blocks and has some major goals such as maximizing the coverage of travel demand and minimizing the travel time. For this purpose, a trip distribution model estimating daily travels between urban blocks, a novel graph-based method, and GIS capabilities in network analysis are utilized to plan an optimum urban bus rout. This method enables urban planners to design public transit paths with consideration of different inconsistent goals simultaneously.Save to LibraryDownloadby Javad Saberian and +1Ali  Shirzadi Babakan•  33  Transportation Engineering, Urban Geography, Geometry And Topology, Spatial AnalysisAlfred North Whitehead. De l’algèbre universelle à la théologie naturelle"François Beets, Michel Dupuis et Michel Weber (éditeurs), Alfred North Whitehead. De l’algèbre universelle à la théologie naturelle. Actes des Journées d’étude internationales tenues à l’Université de Liège les 11-12-13 octobre 2001.... more"François Beets, Michel Dupuis et Michel Weber (éditeurs), Alfred North Whitehead. De l’algèbre universelle à la théologie naturelle. Actes des Journées d’étude internationales tenues à l’Université de Liège les 11-12-13 octobre 2001. Publiés avec le concours du FNRS, Frankfurt / Paris / Lancaster, ontos verlag, Chromatiques whiteheadiennes II, 2004. (377 p. ; ISBN 3-937202-64-1 ; 79 €)Les premières journées « Chromatiques » se sont donné pour objectif de faciliter une réflexion globale sur la trajectoire conceptuelle du philosophe et mathématicien britannique Alfred North Whitehead (1861–1947). Afin de mener le lecteur au cœur de l’ontologie organique de l’époque de Harvard, il est en effet urgent d’élucider Whitehead à partir de lui-même, de montrer — sans être victime d’une « illusion rétrospective » — la continuité qui s’atteste dans un développement idéel qui exploite cependant quelques notables « changements d’amure ». Les contributions au colloque, placées sous le signe du commerce avec les textes eux-mêmes, furent traversées par une double tension : d’une part, l’éclairement systématique d’un aspect technique d’une des époques spéculatives de l’auteur ; d’autre part, la mise en horizon de ce questionnement ponctuel à l’aide d’une perspective globale sur le cheminement spéculatif whiteheadien."Save to LibraryDownloadby Michel Weber and +2Luca VanzagoHelmut Maassen•  27  Algebra, Geometry And Topology, Metaphysics, OntologyThe Biblical Science of Dante's Final ImageSave to LibraryDownloadby Pekka Kuusisto•  12  Geometry And Topology, Comparative Literature, Cosmology (Physics), Dante StudiesKaluza-Klein models: can we construct a viable example?In Kaluza-Klein models, we investigate soliton solutions of Einstein equation. We obtain the formulas for perihelion shift, deflection of light, time delay of radar echoes and PPN parameters. We find that the solitonic parameter k should... moreIn Kaluza-Klein models, we investigate soliton solutions of Einstein equation. We obtain the formulas for perihelion shift, deflection of light, time delay of radar echoes and PPN parameters. We find that the solitonic parameter k should be very big: |k|\geq 2.3\times10^4. We define a soliton solution which corresponds to a point-like mass source. In this case the soliton parameter k=2, which is clearly contrary to this restriction. Similar problem with the observations takes place for static spherically symmetric perfect fluid with the dust-like equation of state in all dimensions. The common for both of these models is the same equations of state in our three dimensions and in the extra dimensions. All dimensions are treated at equal footing. To be in agreement with observations, it is necessary to break the symmetry between the external/our and internal spaces. It takes place for black strings which are particular examples of solitons with k\to \infty. For such k, black strings are in concordance with the observations. Moreover, we show that they are the only solitons which are at the same level of agreement with the observations as in general relativity. Black strings can be treated as perfect fluid with dust-like equation of state p_0=0 in the external/our space and very specific equation of state p_1=-(1/2)\epsilon in the internal space. The latter equation is due to negative tension in the extra dimension. We also demonstrate that dimension 3 for the external space is a special one. Only in this case we get the latter equation of state. We show that the black string equations of state satisfy the necessary condition of the internal space stabilization. Therefore, black strings are good candidates for a viable model of astrophysical objects (e.g., Sun) if we can provide a satisfactory explanation of negative tension for particles constituting these objects.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maxim Eingorn and +1Alexander Zhuk•  67  Field Theory, Geometry And Topology, Elementary Particle Physics, Space SciencesStructural analysis and topology optimisation of an aftercooler cover for weight reduction in off-highway engine applicationIt is endeavoured to gain design direction by use of computational topology optimisation methods on off-highway engines to improve fuel economy and costs to the service provider via weight reductions. Most published studies are focused on... moreIt is endeavoured to gain design direction by use of computational topology optimisation methods on off-highway engines to improve fuel economy and costs to the service provider via weight reductions. Most published studies are focused on key functional components of an on-highway vehicle that are required for the engine or vehicle to function. However, this study aims to use topology optimisation methods on the off-highway Cummins Inc. QSK78 aftercooler cover to achieve an improved design that at least maintains the current product performance, while the weight of the component is reduced. Such analysis has not hitherto reported in the context of off-highway vehicles. The method involves using topology optimisation techniques based on the given objectives relating to strain energy and natural frequencies. The topology optimisation results are used to provide an informed direction for the design of an optimised 3D CAD model. FEA is used to investigate the structural response of both the baseline and optimised covers. The final optimised design shows an improvement even at worst case of generated stress results while a weight reduction of 6.5% is achieved. It was concluded that further improvements could be made in the optimised design considering limitations due to customer constraints.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramin  Rahmani•  15  Mechanical Engineering, Geometry And Topology, Structural Dynamics, Modal AnalysisLattice Universe: examples and problemsWe consider lattice Universes with spatial topologies $T\times T\times T$, $\; T\times T\times R\; $ and $\; T\times R\times R$. In the Newtonian limit of General Relativity, we solve the Poisson equation for the gravitational potential... moreWe consider lattice Universes with spatial topologies $T\times T\times T$, $\; T\times T\times R\; $ and $\; T\times R\times R$. In the Newtonian limit of General Relativity, we solve the Poisson equation for the gravitational potential in the enumerated models. In the case of point-like massive sources in the $T\times T\times T$ model, we demonstrate that the gravitational potential has no definite values on the straight lines joining identical masses in neighboring cells, i.e. at points where masses are absent. Clearly, this is a nonphysical result since the dynamics of cosmic bodies is not determined in such a case. The only way to avoid this problem and get a regular solution at any point of the cell is the smearing of these masses over some region. Therefore, the smearing of gravitating bodies in $N$-body simulations is not only a technical method but also a physically substantiated procedure. In the cases of $\; T\times T\times R\; $ and $\; T\times R\times R$ topologies, there is no way to get any physically reasonable and nontrivial solution. The only solutions we can get here are the ones which reduce these topologies to the $T\times T\times T$ one.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maxim Eingorn•  94  Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, Physics, Theoretical PhysicsSaqqara's Ostrakon and the formula of the circleSince its discovery by Battiscombe Gunn, it is believed that Saqqara's Ostrakon is able to improve our understanding of how Egyptians designed curved elements, but the geometric significance of the hieratic values is still uncertain.... moreSince its discovery by Battiscombe Gunn, it is believed that Saqqara's Ostrakon is able to improve our understanding of how Egyptians designed curved elements, but the geometric significance of the hieratic values is still uncertain. Indeed, in order to obtain an indisputable result, the distance between the vertical ordinates is required, and this distance is not explicitly indicated on the limestone artefact.But since there were no algebraic formulas at the time of the Pharaohs, a simple grid-based procedure was developed such as those used by the Egyptians to reproduce the scale drawings, to try to decipher the geometric meaning of the curve drawn on the find.To conclude, this simple process permits to understand that the five hieratic values of the Saqqara Ostrakon describe a segmental arch whose span and rise correspond to the architectural proportions of several Egyptian tombs and arches, and that the numerical sequence of the artefact could be considered the most "ancient" mathematical formula of the circle.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paolo Di Pasquale•  181  Ancient Egyptian Religion, History, Mathematics, Geometry And TopologyImages in Distortions: From Anamorphosis to Conformal MappingsImages can be transformed in many ways. Some ways, such as conformal mappings, allow the image to maintain its integrity and keep the original image identifiable. This paper analyzes different uses for these types of functions in the... moreImages can be transformed in many ways. Some ways, such as conformal mappings, allow the image to maintain its integrity and keep the original image identifiable. This paper analyzes different uses for these types of functions in the visual arts and utilizes neuroscience to underline their importance.Save to LibraryDownloadby Félix Lambert•  50  Neuroscience, Visual Sociology, Mathematics, Geometry And TopologyReshaping Plant Biology: Qualitative and Quantitative Descriptors for Plant MorphologyAn emerging challenge in plant biology is to develop qualitative and quantitative measures to describe the appearance of plants through the integration of mathematics and biology. A major hurdle in developing these metrics is finding... moreAn emerging challenge in plant biology is to develop qualitative and quantitative measures to describe the appearance of plants through the integration of mathematics and biology. A major hurdle in developing these metrics is finding common terminology across fields. In this review, we define approaches for analyzing plant geometry, topology, and shape, and provide examples for how these terms have been and can be applied to plants. In leaf morphological quantifications both geometry and shape have been used to gain insight into leaf function and evolution. For the analysis of cell growth and expansion, we highlight the utility of geometric descriptors for understanding sepal and hypocotyl development. For branched structures, we describe how topology has been applied to quantify root system architecture to lend insight into root function. Lastly, we discuss the importance of using morphological descriptors in ecology to assess how communities interact, function, and respond within different environments. This review aims to provide a basic description of the mathematical principles underlying morphological quantifications.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Bucksch and +2Christophe PradalErin Sparks•  9  Applied Mathematics, Geometry And Topology, Geometric Morphometrics, Plant Biology[Revised 6/2016] On Ultrametricity and the topology of the LexiconSave to LibraryDownloadby Diego Gabriel Krivochen•  19  Mathematics, Geometry And Topology, Languages and Linguistics, MetricsDistribution Network Topology Detection with Time-Series MeasurementsThis paper proposes a novel approach to detecting the topology of distribution networks based on the analysis of time series measurements. The analysis approach draws on data from high-precision phasor... moreThis paper proposes a novel approach to detecting the   topology   of   distribution   networks   based   on   the   analysis of  time  series  measurements.  The  analysis  approach  draws  on data  from  high-precision  phasor  measurement  units  (PMUs  or synchrophasors) for distribution systems. A key fact is that time-series  data  taken  from  a  dynamic  system  show  specific  patterns regarding  state  transitions  such  as  opening  or  closing  switches,as a kind of signature from each topology change. The algorithm proposed here is based on the comparison of the actual signature of a recent state transition against a library of signatures derived from  topology  simulations.  The  IEEE  33-bus  model  is  used  for initial algorithm validation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Reza Arghandeh and +1Alexandra Von Meier•  6  Geometry And Topology, Data Analysis, Power System, Electric Power SystemsWeak-field limit of f(R)-gravity in three and more spatial dimensionsWe investigate a point-like massive source in non-linear f(R) theories in the case of arbitrary number of spatial dimensions D\geq 3. If D>3 then extra dimensions undergo toroidal compactification. We consider a weak-field approximation... moreWe investigate a point-like massive source in non-linear f(R) theories in the case of arbitrary number of spatial dimensions D\geq 3. If D>3 then extra dimensions undergo toroidal compactification. We consider a weak-field approximation with Minkowski and de Sitter background solutions. In both these cases point-like massive sources demonstrate good agreement with experimental data only in the case of ordinary three-dimensional (D=3) space. We generalize this result to the case of perfect fluid with dust-like equations of state in the external and internal spaces. This perfect fluid is uniformly smeared over all extra dimensions and enclosed in a three-dimensional sphere. In ordinary three dimensional (D=3) space, our formulas are useful for experimental constraints on parameters of f(R) models.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maxim Eingorn•  60  Mathematical Physics, Field Theory, Geometry And Topology, PhysicsThe 'tre giri' of Par. XXXIII.Save to LibraryDownloadby arielle saiber•  10  Geometry And Topology, Dante Studies, History of Mathematics, Italian StudiesTetryonics [5] - Quantum GeometricsThe quantum [Planck scale] geometrics underpinning the mathematics of physics - 'squared' numbers in quantum theory are revealed to be equilateral Planck energy momenta geometries - affording a geometric reinterpretation of quantum theory... moreThe quantum [Planck scale] geometrics underpinning the mathematics of physics - 'squared' numbers in quantum theory are revealed to be equilateral Planck energy momenta geometries - affording a geometric reinterpretation of quantum theory to facilitate the creation of unified quantum field theory of EverythingSave to LibraryDownloadby KELVIN C ABRAHAM•  12  Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, Quantum Physics, History of MathematicsSobre el teorema de Darboux-Geometria diferencialEl trabajo hecho en esta tesis fue estudiar algunas propiedades de la topología simpléctica en particular el comportamiento local de variedades simplecticas, para eso se entendió la demostración del teorema de Darboux, el enunciado de... moreEl trabajo hecho en esta tesis fue estudiar algunas propiedades de la topología simpléctica en particular el comportamiento local de variedades simplecticas, para eso seentendió la demostración del teorema de Darboux, el enunciado de este es interesantepor que afírma que dos variedades diferenciables con estructura simplécticas localmenteno tienen invariantes topológicas, eso quiere decir que al momento de analizardos variedades simplecticas y querer compararlas, no serviría un estudio local porque el teorema nos afrimaría que son idénticas y que se comportan de la misma maneraalrededor de cualquier punto, esto nos indica que tenemos que hacer un estudioglobal para diferenciar algunas propiedades topológicas y geometricas. Si el estudioque se quiere hacer de cualquier variedad simpléctica es puramente local basta conanalizar la variedad simpléctica (R2n; !0), por que el teorema de Darboux nos afírmaque son simplectomorfas localmente. Esto simplifíca enormemente el trabajo, dadoque se conocen muchas cosas de esta variedad diferenciable.Lo interesante de este trabajo es la forma en como se estudio la demostración delteorema de Darboux, basándose en el trabajo de Moser sobres campos vectorialesy formas diferenciales, esto simplíca y pone con mas claridad la demostración, detal manera que el teorema de Darboux queda como aplicación inmediato de estétrabajo. Lo que no se observa en otras demostraciones hechas para esta teorema.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramiro García B.•  4  Geometry And Topology, Differential Geometry, Ecuaciones diferenciales, MATEMATICASNextLast »Related TopicsAlgebraic TopologyFollowFollowingAlgebraic GeometryFollowFollowingMathematicsFollowFollowingDifferential GeometryFollowFollowingTopologyFollowFollowingGeometryFollowFollowingGeometric TopologyFollowFollowingNon Euclidean GeometryFollowFollowingArchitectural GeometryFollowFollowingGeneral TopologyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023