Commons:Picture of the day - Wikimedia Commons
Commons:Picture of the day
From Wikimedia Commons, the free media repository
(Redirected from Picture of the day)
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Translate this pageShortcut: COM:POTD
Other languages:Alemannisch
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Basa Bali
Bân-lâm-gú
Cymraeg
Deutsch
English
Esperanto
Gaeilge
Kapampangan
Kiswahili
Latina
Lëtzebuergesch
Malti
Nederlands
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Winaray
Yorùbá
aragonés
asturianu
azərbaycanca
bosanski
brezhoneg
català
dansk
eesti
español
euskara
français
føroyskt
galego
hrvatski
interlingua
italiano
latviešu
lietuvių
magyar
norsk bokmål
norsk nynorsk
occitan
oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча
polski
português
română
shqip
sicilianu
slovenčina
slovenščina
suomi
svenska
čeština
Ελληνικά
алтай тил
беларуская
беларуская (тарашкевіца)
български
ирон
кыргызча
македонски
русский
српски / srpski
українська
қазақша
հայերեն
עברית
العربية
روچ کپتین بلوچی
فارسی
مازِرونی
پنجابی
پښتو
کٲشُر
नेपाल भाषा
मराठी
অসমীয়া
বাংলা
ગુજરાતી
ଓଡ଼ିଆ
മലയാളം
ไทย
မြန်မာဘာသာ
ქართული
ភាសាខ្មែរ
中文
日本語
粵語
閩南語
한국어
POTD logo
Picture of the day
1 September 2023
Panoramic view (span of approx. 150°) of the city of Cusco, Peru. The city, located near the Sacred Valley of the Andes mountain range, is the capital of the Cusco Province, has a population of 428,450 inhabitants and its elevation is around 3,400 metres (11,200 ft). The site was the historic capital of the Inca Empire from the 13th until the 16th-century Spanish conquest and was declared in 1983 a UNESCO World Heritage Site.+/− [en]
These are images selected for display on the Main Page as the Picture of the day.  Publishing them on this page allows users to translate the captions into other languages.
Pictures of the day will be chosen from Featured pictures of Commons. Featured pictures are the finest images on Wikimedia Commons and are selected by consensus on Commons:Featured picture candidates. Pictures of the day should be selected from images that were strongly supported during the nomination process. For instructions on how to add a Picture of the Day, see Commons:Picture of the day/Instructions.
 Receive the Picture of the day via e-mail (mailing-list)
 Receive the Picture of the Day via RSS web feed (more information)
The current Picture of the Day can be included on a page using the template
{{Potd|width=300|float=right|lang=en}}
The image can be accessed using
[[:File:{{Potd/{{CURRENTYEAR}}-{{CURRENTMONTH}}-{{CURRENTDAY2}}}}]]
The caption can be accessed using
{{Potd/{{CURRENTYEAR}}-{{CURRENTMONTH}}-{{CURRENTDAY2}} (en)}}
Write a description
You can write a description for a Picture of the day by using this function. Replace YYYY with the wanted year, MM with month, DD with day, and xx with your language code. Further information is given on the page that opens after you click on the button.
Current month
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
1
Panoramic view (span of approx. 150°) of the city of Cusco, Peru. The city, located near the Sacred Valley of the Andes mountain range, is the capital of the Cusco Province, has a population of 428,450 inhabitants and its elevation is around 3,400 metres (11,200 ft). The site was the historic capital of the Inca Empire from the 13th until the 16th-century Spanish conquest and was declared in 1983 a UNESCO World Heritage Site.Change image 
English : Panoramic view (span of approx. 150°) of the city of Cusco, Peru. The city, located near the Sacred Valley of the Andes mountain range, is the capital of the Cusco Province, has a population of 428,450 inhabitants and its elevation is around 3,400 metres (11,200 ft). The site was the historic capital of the Inca Empire from the 13th until the 16th-century Spanish conquest and was declared in 1983 a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
2
Experiment with lens ball and light stickChange image 
English : Experiment with lens ball and light stick
3
The Langkofel and the Seiser Alm in South Tyrol.Change image 
English : The Langkofel and the Seiser Alm in South Tyrol.
4
A Re 4/4 II and a Re 6/6 haul a southbound intermodal freight train on the Gotthard line just outside Erstfeld (visible in the background), Switzerland.Change image 
English : A Re 4/4 II and a Re 6/6 haul a southbound intermodal freight train on the Gotthard line just outside Erstfeld (visible in the background), Switzerland.
5
Aerial view of a flock of sheep with a shepherd in ChinaChange image 
English : Aerial view of a flock of sheep with a shepherd in China
6
Clouded yellows (Colias croceus) mating in Pirin National Park, Bulgaria. Today is Bulgaria Unification Day; unification happened in 1885.Change image 
English : Clouded yellows (Colias croceus) mating in Pirin National Park, Bulgaria. Today is Bulgaria Unification Day; unification happened in 1885.
7
125 years ago: Menu card (front page) for the banquet in honour of the presence of German Emperor Wilhelm II and Empress Auguste Viktoria on Sept. 7 1898 in Hotel Kaiserhof, Porta Westfalica.Change image 
English : 125 years ago: Menu card (front page) for the banquet in honour of the presence of German Emperor Wilhelm II and Empress Auguste Viktoria on Sept. 7 1898 in Hotel Kaiserhof, Porta Westfalica.
8
Red-and-green macaw (Ara chloropterus) juvenile, near the banks of the Rio Negro in the Pantanal, Brazil.Change image 
English : Red-and-green macaw (Ara chloropterus) juvenile, near the banks of the Rio Negro in the Pantanal, Brazil.
9
A batik maker in Wukirsari Village, the center of batik tulis industry in Imogiri, Bantul, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.Change image 
English : A batik maker in Wukirsari Village, the center of batik tulis industry in Imogiri, Bantul, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
10
The Neue Nationalgalerie in BerlinChange image 
English : The Neue Nationalgalerie in Berlin
11
Tribute in Light (as seen in 2020), in remembrance of the September 11 attacks in 2001.Change image 
English : Tribute in Light (as seen in 2020), in remembrance of the September 11 attacks in 2001.
12
Breil-Brigels Outflow of river Flem in  Lag da Breil.Change image 
English : Breil-Brigels Outflow of river Flem in  Lag da Breil.
13
Southeast view of the Romanesque abbey church ruin in Paulinzella, GermanyChange image 
English : Southeast view of the Romanesque abbey church ruin in Paulinzella, Germany
14
Nacreous clouds over the McMurdo Station, AntarcticaChange image 
English : Nacreous clouds over the McMurdo Station, Antarctica
15
Blue-sided leaf frog (Agalychnis annae) in Heredia, Costa Rica. This frog is classified as vulnerable on the IUCN Red List.Change image 
English : Blue-sided leaf frog (Agalychnis annae) in Heredia, Costa Rica. This frog is classified as vulnerable on the IUCN Red List.
16
Ruined Armenian church inside Lori Berd (Lori Fortress), an 11th-century fortress located in the Lori Province, Armenia. The fortress was built by David Anhoghin to become the capital of Kingdom of Tashir-Dzoraget in 1065.Change image 
English : Ruined Armenian church inside Lori Berd (Lori Fortress), an 11th-century fortress located in the Lori Province, Armenia. The fortress was built by David Anhoghin to become the capital of Kingdom of Tashir-Dzoraget in 1065.
17
Trees and ditch at sunrise in Börnste hamlet, Kirchspiel, Dülmen, North Rhine-Westphalia, GermanyChange image 
English : Trees and ditch at sunrise in Börnste hamlet, Kirchspiel, Dülmen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
18
Waldhaus Flims, upper Rhineschlucht, view of the Rheinschlucht natural monument from viewing platform “Il spir”.Change image 
English : Waldhaus Flims, upper Rhineschlucht, view of the Rheinschlucht natural monument from viewing platform “Il spir”.
19
Façade of the cathedral Notre-Dame de Paris (France), showing the Portal of the Virgin, the Portal of the Last Judgment and the Portal of Saint Anne. The row above shows the statues of 28 biblical kings.Change image 
English : Façade of the cathedral Notre-Dame de Paris (France), showing the Portal of the Virgin, the Portal of the Last Judgment and the Portal of Saint Anne. The row above shows the statues of 28 biblical kings.
20
Viperine snake (Natrix maura) swimming in Extremadura, SpainChange image 
English : Viperine snake (Natrix maura) swimming in Extremadura, Spain
21
Issued 100 years ago: 100 Million Mark "Notgeld" banknote (21 September 1923), Trier, Germany, design: Fritz Quant, RV: Roman Bridge in Trier.Change image 
English : Issued 100 years ago: 100 Million Mark "Notgeld" banknote (21 September 1923), Trier, Germany, design: Fritz Quant, RV: Roman Bridge in Trier.
22
Skyline of Frankfurt am Main, Germany.Change image 
English : Skyline of Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
23
Interior view of Pauluskirche (St. Paul's Church) in Lucerne, SwitzerlandChange image 
English : Interior view of Pauluskirche (St. Paul's Church) in Lucerne, Switzerland
24
Central dome of Salzburg Cathedral, Austria. The cathedral was founded in 774 and rebuilt in 1181 after a fire but it become its present Baroque style appearance under Prince-Bishop Wolf Dietrich von Raitenau in the 17th century.Change image 
English : Central dome of Salzburg Cathedral, Austria. The cathedral was founded in 774 and rebuilt in 1181 after a fire but it become its present Baroque style appearance under Prince-Bishop Wolf Dietrich von Raitenau in the 17th century.
25
'Golden Delicious' applesChange image 
English : 'Golden Delicious' apples
26
Amrum windmill near Nebel, historic building and landmark of the North Frisian Island of AmrumChange image 
English : Amrum windmill near Nebel, historic building and landmark of the North Frisian Island of Amrum
27
Aerial view of Mount Rainier, Washington, USA, taken from the west.  At 14,417 ft (4,394 m), this active volcano is the highest mountain in Washington State and is the most topographically prominent mountain in the contiguous United States.  It is considered one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world.  It is popular among mountaineers.Change image 
English : Aerial view of Mount Rainier, Washington, USA, taken from the west.  At 14,417 ft (4,394 m), this active volcano is the highest mountain in Washington State and is the most topographically prominent mountain in the contiguous United States.  It is considered one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world.  It is popular among mountaineers.
28
Mount Everest North Face as seen from the path to the base camp, Tibet, China.Change image 
English : Mount Everest North Face as seen from the path to the base camp, Tibet, China.
29
This ceiling fresco in Michaelskapelle, a historic church in Bruchsal, Baden-Württemberg, depicts Michael the Archangel's victory over Satan and fallen angels. Today is Michaelmas.Change image 
English : This ceiling fresco in Michaelskapelle, a historic church in Bruchsal, Baden-Württemberg, depicts Michael the Archangel's victory over Satan and fallen angels. Today is Michaelmas.
30
Picture of Pinto Beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) seeds.Change image 
English : Picture of Pinto Beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) seeds.
Request an additional language – Demande d’ajout d’une langue 
Next month
Pictures of the day for next month
Previous month
Pictures of the day for previous month
See also
Commons:Media of the day
Retrieved from "https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Commons:Picture_of_the_day&oldid=681454697"
Category: Commons:Potd (en)
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Project pageDiscussion
English
Views
ViewView sourceHistory
More
Search
Navigate
Main pageWelcomeCommunity portalVillage pumpHelp center
Participate
Upload fileRecent changesLatest filesRandom fileContact us
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikipedia
In Wikipedia
АдыгабзэАлтай тилالعربيةАварBasa BaliБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиभोजपुरीবাংলাBrezhonegBosanskiCatalàНохчийнQırımtatarcaЧӑвашлаEnglishEsperantoEspañolفارسیFrançaisArpetan贛語Bahasa Hulontaloहिन्दीMagyarՀայերենBahasa IndonesiaГӀалгӀай日本語JawaქართულიҚазақшаភាសាខ្មែរಕನ್ನಡ한국어Перем комиКомиКыргызчаЛаккуЛезгиМокшеньОлык марийКырык марыMirandésЭрзяньChi-ChewaLivvinkarjalaଓଡ଼ିଆИронKapampanganپښتوPortuguêsРусскийسنڌيDavvisámegiellaShqipதமிழ்ТоҷикӣTürkçeТатарча / tatarçaТыва дылУдмуртУкраїнськаOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаVepsän kel’Tiếng Việt吴语Хальмг中文文言粵語
Edit links
 This page was last edited on 10 August 2022, at 11:14.
Files are available under licenses specified on their description page. All structured data from the file namespace is available under the Creative Commons CC0 License; all unstructured text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikimedia Commons
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement