Jordan Information Ministry signs deal on open source - Government - News & Features - ITP.net
33 captures
20 Jan 2010 - 16 Jul 2023
Mar
AUG
Nov
04
2010
2012
2013
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wide Crawl started April 2012
  Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from April 2012.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20120804233543/http://www.itp.net/578825-jordan-information-ministry-signs-deal-on-open-source
Reviews Tried, tested and exposed
Canon PowerShot IXUS 240HS
This fashionable camera offers an array of shooting optionsGeorgina Enzer on 10 Jul 2012
Arnova Childpad
How to stop the kids stealing your iPad? Get them their own child-friendly tabletITP.net Staff Writer on 28 Jun 2012
Sony-Ericsson Xperia Pro
Sony-Ericsson may be no more, but the Xperia Pro lives onMark Sutton on 24 Feb 2012
more ›
ITP.net Blogs The ITP Technology team speaks out
I ♥ Tam
HP's Vivienne Tam 'digital clutch' costs AED 2,199 and is available at the usual retailersVineetha Menon on 21 Jun 2010
Panasonic Lumix FP3 digital camera
Panasonic's new Lumix camera costs AED 999 in the United Arab EmiratesVineetha Menon on 07 Jun 2010
Nokia X6 - Ringing in the Tunes
Nokia X6 (16GB) is now available in the UAE for AED 2,100Vineetha Menon on 06 Apr 2010
more ›
  RSS
Latest News
News & Features
Products
 Latest Reviews
News & Features
 Business applications
 Channel
 
 Gadgets
 Government
 
 Mobility
 Networks
 Operating systems
 PC hardware
 Security
 Services
 Telecoms
 Web
Blogs
 All
 Gadgets
 Tecno babble
Subscriptions
eChannel
Channel Arabic
Arabian Computer News
Network Middle East
Windows Middle East
Windows Middle East Arabic
ITP.net
ITP.net Arabic
GITEX Business Solutions
GULFCOMMS
Search:
بالعربية
Login
Register
News & Features
Business applications
Channel
Data centres
Gadgets
Government
IT Business
Mobility
Networks
Operating systems
PC hardware
Security
Services
Telecoms
Web
Multimedia
Photos
Videos
Reviews
Storage
Projectors
Games
Home AV systems
Networking and WiFi
Software
Televisions
Monitors
Cameras
Camcorders
Notebooks
Desktop PCs
Components
Peripherals
Games consoles
Mobile devices
Knowledge Centre
Comments & Blogs
Competitions
Gitex
Topics A-Z
News & Features ›
Government ›
Jordan Information Ministry signs deal on open source
Jordanian Ministry of Information and Communication signs deal with Ingres to develop open source
Tags:
Database,       Ingres Corporation,       Jordan 
Importance of ICT to UAE gov’t recognised in new reportUAE ranked 3rd of 134 in terms of recognising the importance of information technology‹ Previous
Next›Jordan to exercise greater control over digital contentMedia activists worry that decision will bring an end to internet freedom in country
Article 
Comments 
 
(l) Simon Cattlin, former senior vice president of Sales and Services for NEMEA at Ingres and Eng Basem Rousan, former Minister, The Government of Jordan’s MoICT.
By
Mark Sutton
Published
January 16, 2010
The Government of Jordan and open source database management company Ingres have signed an MOU to promote open source software adoption in the country. The MOU between Ingres and the Ministry of Information and Communications Technology of Jordan (MOICT), aims to increase expertise and competence around open source software, to make Jordan a regional centre for open source software. Samer Shamayleh, director of strategic agreements, MOICT said: "We are pleased to promote the benefits of open source in our region and our role in becoming the open source ‘hub' for the Middle East. "Our agreement with Ingres will help us to raise awareness and create a general understanding among government agency leaders about the value of open source software. Open source allows IT systems to be built without expensive up front investments in license fees and, with Ingres, without compromising on critical needs for privacy, security, and reliability that are crucial to our government agencies," he added. The MOU will initially focus on universities in Jordan, with the establishment of an open source laboratory in a Jordanian university, and boot camps and free training to certify individuals in open source. Arabic language training will be provided by Ingres' partner Duroob. 
Related Articles
Comguard takes on Delphix database solutions
Oracle releases new software
Eyeing Regional growth
Ingres will also work to support MOICT initiatives to promote open source through workshops, academic initiatives, and local partner support. Under the MOU, the Jordanian government will make open source software an alternative in government software purchasing decisions, and will also agree to assign resources to develop new functions for Ingres' open source database. The agreement also includes an undisclosed project to develop government services, for which Ingres will train government specialists. Roger Burkhardt, CEO of Ingres said: "Government agencies are always looking for the best way to quickly deliver quality services for their citizens using advanced technologies, but they also have an obligation to taxpayers to drive down their IT procurement costs. The open source model delivers cost savings through a subscription model that provides excellent support with a cost that is aligned to the value delivered and totally eliminates the expense of proprietary license fees. "We applaud the Government of Jordan as being the first to sign an agreement with an open source company to ensure the adoption of open source across the country. This is a huge first step and we hope to see other governments follow Jordan's lead by taking concrete actions to adopt open source to accelerate innovation and reduce the taxpayers costs," he added.
Tags:
Database,             Ingres Corporation,             Jordan 
JOIN THE DISCUSSION
Add Yours
Add a Comment
Name:
Your display name This field is mandatory
Email:
Your e-mail address This field is mandatory (Your e-mail address won't be published)
Your comment:
Security code:
 
SubmitClear
ALSO IN THIS SECTION
E-GOVERNMENT
Safe as houses
EDUCATION
LINK Development open portal for Microsoft Imagine Cup Finals
LAW AND REGULATION
UAE keen to log 200,000 new .ae addresses by 2010
ALSO IN NEWS & FEATURES
BUSINESS APPLICATIONS
Luxury launch
CHANNEL
Iraqi Channel Feels The Pressure
DATA CENTRES
Discounting the downturn
Contact Us | 
Letters To The Editor | 
Media Kit
Press Releases
Published by & © 2012 ITP Digital Ltd. All rights reserved. Privacy policy | Terms of use |
Visit other ITP Digital sites
ArabianBusiness.com
ArabianBusiness.com/Arabic
ArabianBusiness.com/Markets
ArabianBusiness.com/Jobs
ArabianBusiness.com/Property
Ahlan! Live
Masala.com
TimeOutDubai.com
TimeOutAbuDhabi.com
TimeOutBahrain.com
TimeOutTickets.com
Grazia.ae
VivaMagazine.ae
ConstructionWeekDirectory
ITP.com