Urban Geography Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Urban Geography64,433 FollowersRecent papers in Urban GeographyTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleSelf-organization, appropriation of places and production of urbanityIn this historical phase, cities are intensely crossed by processes and practices of appropriation and re-appropriation of places and life environments. Motivations are at different levels: necessity, political and personal. The fieldwork... moreIn this historical phase, cities are intensely crossed by processes and practices of appropriation and re-appropriation of places and life environments. Motivations are at different levels: necessity, political and personal. The fieldwork shows, however, another reason, namely a need for urbanity and quality of urban life. Space is the medium of all these experiences. Places and everyday life have a strong centrality in them. In fact, these experiences find in the texture and spatiality of places their solidification point, their drive and motivation, often their raison d'être, as well as an activator for their passion. A place is a material and significant space, which precipitates the linear chronographic time and turns it into everyday lifetime. The process of self-organization in / with the territory becomes a principle and a process of individuation. Finally, some experiences directly and explicitly pose questions about the modes of production of politics and institutions, thus entering into a broad debate.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlo  Cellamare•  12  Urban Geography, Urban Planning, Urban Studies, Civil Society and the Public SphereUn siècle de banlieue japonaise. Au paroxysme de la société de consommation, MétispressesPréface d’Augustin Berque Un siècle de banlieue japonaise apporte une réflexion inédite sur les processus d’urbanisation de l’une des sociétés de consommation les plus avancées de la planète, dans un pays dont la population doit, de... morePréface d’Augustin BerqueUn siècle de banlieue japonaise apporte une réflexion inédite sur les processus d’urbanisation de l’une des sociétés de consommation les plus avancées de la planète, dans un pays dont la population doit, de surcroît, souvent faire face à des désastres naturels. De la fin du 19e  siècle aux temps présents en passant par la crise de Fukushima, l’histoire de la production de l’espace nippon retracée ici nous permet de saisir l’évolution du rapport des Japonais à l’urbain et à leur milieu. Dans ce contexte, la formation du tissu urbain banlieusard qui entoure les villes, et notamment la capitale, est un phénomène particulièrement éloquent.Au Japon, logements publics et sociaux n’allant pas de pair, il est essentiel de saisir les motivations d’une réflexion liée au logement populaire en banlieue. Quelles sont les conséquences foncières, sociales et culturelles de la transformation de l’espace imposée par les politiques planificatrices de la seconde moitié du 20e siècle? Un siècle de banlieue japonaise présente les premières initiatives externalisées dans le domaine du logement, les influences occidentales et les prises de position qui ont donné naissance au processus de création de la banlieue japonaise, ainsi que les grands mouvements d’idées sous-jacents. Afin d’illustrer les résultats concrets de ces phénomènes, l’auteure examine en profondeur la situation des cités de loge-ments publics japonaises, qui exprime certes la mise en œuvre de la modernité dans l’aménagement spatial, mais entraîne également des réalités socioculturelles difficiles. De la naissance du noyau urbain de Tôkyô aux emprunts à l’Amérique de l’après-guerre, de la vague du bunka à l’apogée de Kôdan (l’organisme public du logement), en passant par l’évolution inexorable d’un village où les traditions disparaissent progressivement, Cécile Asanuma-Brice nous présente la poétique et la politique de l’urbain nippon. Elle nous invite de manière spéculaire à nous interroger sur la production de l’espace urbain occidental. Table des matièresRemerciements | 11 Préface d’Augustin Berque | 13 Introduction / Au paroxysme dela société de consommation | 15 PARTIE I / NAISSANCE DE VILLE ET STRUCTURATION DE L’ALENTOUR De la naissance d’Edo à la formation d’une culture d’habiter propre à la périphérie urbaine | 25 Chapitre 1 / Une organisation urbaine au rythme des plateaux | 27Chapitre 2 / Le rôle des transports dans l’étalement urbain de Tôkyô | 53Chapitre 3 / L’ère du Bunka 文化 | 71 PARTIE II / FORMATION D’UN SYSTÈME DE LOGEMENT PUBLIC  ET TRANSFORMATION DU MODE DE VIE EN PÉRIPHÉRIE Naissance d’une préoccupation publique sur la question du logement socialau Japon | 85 Chapitre 1 / L’émergence de la question du logement ouvrier | 87Chapitre 2 / Du logement d’entreprise à la ville d’entreprise Shatakugai 社宅街 | 95Chapitre 3 / Lorsque le logement devient une préoccupation publique | 111 PARTIE III / QUAND LA BANLIEUE PERD SON LIEU Aux prémices de la métamorphose banlieusarde | 129 Chapitre 1 / L’après-guerre 1945-1955 : mise en place des organismes de production et de gestion des logements pu-blics et évolution du cadre juridique | 131Chapitre 2 / De la modernité | 143Chapitre 3 / Les influences américaines | 149 PARTIE IV / L’ORGANISME PUBLIC DU LOGEMENT (KÔDAN JÛTAKU) Naissance et décadence | 157 Chapitre 1 / 1955, début de la période de haute croissance | 159Chapitre 2 / À nouvelle forme d’urba-nisme, communautés nouvelles | 167Chapitre 3 / Les années 1980 : kôdan, apogée et déclin | 179 PARTIE V / VAGABONDAGE PÉRIURBAIN, DU TERRITOIREÀ LA CHOSE CONSTRUITE Chapitre 1 / La formation de la banlieue fasuto-fûdo (ファスト風土 ) | 195Chapitre 2 /  L’inadaptation de la ville-objet de consommation au territoire: le séisme de 2011 | 205 Conclusion / Du local au global, quand la domination de l’appareil  organisationnel détruit ceux pour qui il a été mis en place | 215 Annexe / Si la banlieue nous était contée… par ses habitants | 221Bibliographie | 227Glossaire | 243Index des lieux | 247Sources iconographiques | 249Crédits | 253Save to LibraryDownloadby Cécile Asanuma-Brice•  20  Industrial And Labor Relations, Sociology, Geography, Urban GeographyToward a Political Ecology of Biosocial Relations: Rethinking the Urban Water Metabolism Beyond the CityThis working paper examines the concept of metabolism and its potential as a critical analytical lens to study the contemporary city from a political perspective. The paper illustrates how the metabolism concept has been used... moreThis working paper examines the concept of metabolism and its potential as a critical analytical lens to study the contemporary city from a political perspective. The paper illustrates how the metabolism concept has been used historically, both as a metaphor to describe the technological, social, political and economic dimensions of human-environment relations, and as a concrete analytical tool to quantify and better understand how flows of matter and energy shape the territorial and spatial configurations of cityscapes. Drawing on the example of the urban water metabolism of the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area (GAMA), the paper shows how the metabolism concept can be applied to study the politics of water in the city.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten Schulz•  18  Environmental Sociology, Urban Geography, Political Ecology, Water resourcesMunicipal disconnect: On abject water and its urban infrastructuresInfrastructural practices, made by the manipulations of pumps, pipes and hydraulic expertise, play a critical role in managing urban populations. Drawing on two years of ethnographic research in Mumbai, in this article I show how Muslim... moreInfrastructural practices, made by the manipulations of pumps, pipes and hydraulic expertise, play a critical role in managing urban populations. Drawing on two years of ethnographic research in Mumbai, in this article I show how Muslim settlers in a northern suburb are being rendered abject residents of the city. Abjection isn’t not a lack of social and political entitlements, but a denial of them. As Muslim settlers are being pushed down to claim less desirable water through the deliberate inaction of city engineers and technocrats, this article shows the iterative process through which abjection is made through tenuous and contentious infrastructural connections between the government and the governed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikhil  Anand•  21  Urban Geography, Architecture, Governmentality, Environmental StudiesSocial Housing and Housing Justice: Pathways to Housing DecommodificationIn the face of a housing crisis rooted in commodification, there is growing alignment within both activist and scholarly circles over the need to reverse this trend and move toward decommodification. There is work left to be done,... moreIn the face of a housing crisis rooted in commodification, there is growing alignment within both activist and scholarly circles over the need to reverse this trend and move toward decommodification. There is work left to be done, however, in conceptualizing how to get there. Housing and tenant groups challenge the logic of extraction through their day-to-day struggles in privately-held rental housing. The policy priorities of this movement are rooted in housing justice. By giving tenants more power over where they live through rent regulation, eviction protections, robust code enforcement, and other forms of legal recourse, these policies make real estate speculation less profitable. In parallel, there is a growing call for social housing conversions through both public takings and private land and property acquisition to realize a vision of housing that prioritizes decommodification, deep affordability, and democratic management. But how do these visions of housing decommodification relate to one another? In our forthcoming project Pathways to Social Housing in New York, we draw out connections between these different strategies, outlining a broad collection of policies that together can present a road to housing decommodification, both within our state and elsewhere around the country. In particular, we argue that to decommodify urban property, we need to fight not only for policy and funding which transfers land and housing to social ownership, but also for policies that make extractive and predatory housing models less viable and organizing more feasible. We need a strategy that incorporates both social housing and housing justice.Save to LibraryDownloadby Samuel Stein•  20  Real Estate, Geography, Urban Geography, Urban PoliticsLa ville quel genre ? L'espace public a l'épreuve du genre.Le constat : les normes de genre attribuant aux individus des rôles et des statuts spécifiques en fonction de leur sexe assigné, genre, sexualité, etc. supposent une pratique de l’espace public conditionnée ; ce même espace public est... moreLe constat : les normes de genre attribuant aux individus des rôles et des statuts spécifiques en fonction de leur sexe assigné, genre, sexualité, etc. supposent une pratique de l’espace public conditionnée ; ce même espace public est majoritairement conçu, construit, approprié par les hommes. Les études se font plus nombreuses, elles révèlent pour la majorité des femmes une sensation d’exclusion, de n’être pas à sa place, de devoir surveiller son comportement, d’être moins acceptée voire vulnérable en certains lieux, à certains horaires…Cet ouvrage a pour ambition d’associer les éléments d’un état de la recherche en sciences humaines et sociales à propos des rapports sociaux de sexes et de l’espace urbain, mais aussi, et surtout, d’ouvrir des pistes opérationnelles utiles aux différents groupes acteurs de la ville, et à toutes celles et ceux qui fabriquent quotidiennement la ville, enhéritent et la transforment. Que pourrait être une ville non sexiste ? non discriminante ? L’approche pluridisciplinaire proposée ici incite àlire, agir, construire avec le genre. Les espaces concernés sont urbains : métropoles, villes-centres, banlieues. Il s’agit d’espaces publics, du « vivre la ville », de s’y déplacer, de l’habiter.Ce livre n’est pas un manuel des bonnes pratiques à appliquer mécaniquement, mais une invitation à inventer, à remettre en question un urbanisme, dont le modèle majoritaire est un homme jeune, bien portant, hétérosexuel, de classe moyenne, souvent véhiculé.Approches en architecture, géographie, lettres, psychologie, sociologie, urbanisme sont ici regroupées à l’invitation d’un groupe de chercheurs et chercheuses, Les Urbain.e.s, qui développe un programme de recherche-action à Gennevilliers depuis 2013.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emmanuelle Faure and +1corinne luxembourg•  6  Geography, Urban Geography, Gender Studies, Action ResearchClass, Community and Communicative Planning: Urban Redevelopment at King's Cross, LondonAbstract:  This paper presents an argument for considering issues of class in analyses of communicative planning projects. In these projects, class interests tend to be obscured by the contemporary preoccupation with the class-ambiguous... moreAbstract:  This paper presents an argument for considering issues of class in analyses of communicative planning projects. In these projects, class interests tend to be obscured by the contemporary preoccupation with the class-ambiguous category of “community”. Through a case study of a project of urban redevelopment at King's Cross in London, we conceptualize and map class interests in an urban redevelopment project. Three aspects of the planning process that contain clear class effects are looked at: the amount of office space, the flexibility of plans, and the appropriation of the urban environment as exchange or use value. These aspects structure the urban redevelopment but are external to the communicative planning process. The opposition to the redevelopment has in the planning discourse been articulated as “community”-based rather than in class-sensitive terms. We finally present three strategies for reinserting issues of class into planning theory and practice.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ståle Holgersen•  67  Geography, Human Geography, Urban Geography, Economic GeographyAnalysis of Subjective Indicators of Quality of Life in Urban Areas of Iran (Case Study: Sonqor City)This descriptive-analytical study attempted to investigate the quality of life in urban areas of Iran. Sonqor City of Kermanshah Province was selected as a case. Field and documentary data collection methods were used. To collect the... moreThis descriptive-analytical study attempted to investigate the quality of life in urban areas of Iran. Sonqor City of Kermanshah Province was selected as a case. Field and documentary data collection methods were used. To collect the field data, researcher-designed questionnaires were used, of which the validity was confirmed by expert judgment and the reliability was confirmed using Cronbach’s alpha (0.893). The population comprised all the residents of Sonqor City (n=46181). Using Cochran formula, 382 individuals were selected as sample and questionnaires were randomly distributed among them. Results demonstrated that among the 9 aspects of quality of life investigated in Sonqor City, satisfaction with the three aspects of housing, transportation and education, which have coefficients of variation of 0.319, 0.331, and 0.412 respectively, are the most important aspects. Moreover, general results of quality of life of Sonqor residents revealed that 75 percent of the respondents had ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Mojtaba Shoeibi•  11  Human Geography, Urban Geography, Urban History, Sustainable DevelopmentKlangräume der Erlebnisgesellschaft: Eine phänomenologische UntersuchungWir leben in Klangwelten, die unser Erleben einer lebendigen Wirklichkeit prägen. Wir suchen nach außeralltäglichen Klangerlebnissen in aufwändig inszenierten Spiel-Räumen. Diese Spiel-Räume sind Räume der erlebten Interaktion, es sind... moreWir leben in Klangwelten, die unser Erleben einer lebendigen Wirklichkeit prägen. Wir suchen nach außeralltäglichen Klangerlebnissen in aufwändig inszenierten Spiel-Räumen. Diese Spiel-Räume sind Räume der erlebten Interaktion, es sind fremde Räume, in denen wir zu uns selbst finden wollen und die als Heterotopien Zerstreuung vom Gewöhnlichen versprechen. Die in diesem Buch vorgenommene phänomenologische Untersuchung beschreibt die Ästhetisierung des Lebens anhand der Klangräume der Erlebnisgesellschaft. Es ist eine Aufforderung zum kritischen Hinhören und ein Plädoyer für die Planungsrelevanz klanggeographischer Lebenswirklichkeiten. The book is a phenomenological study of the sonorous dimension of ludic spaces. Drawing mainly on introspection, the study approaches various heterotopias like theme parks, stadia, protest marches, rock concerts and religious places through listening. The author explores a broad range of phenomenological literature on sound and space, including conceptual works on atmospheres.Save to LibraryDownloadby Simon Runkel•  16  Urban Geography, Phenomenology, Soundscape Studies, Atmospheres (Architecture)The depth structure of a London high street: a study in urban orderThis thesis is a study of Tottenham High Road, and how the urban blocks which comprise its depth are composed. Depth has a number of components: architecture, space and time; depth is the armature in which people live their social lives,... moreThis thesis is a study of Tottenham High Road, and how the urban blocks which comprise its depth are composed. Depth has a number of components: architecture, space and time; depth is the armature in which people live their social lives, and the place where local cultures emerge. The conception of depth offers a way of capturing urban life in its richness and its reciprocities. The literature about high streets offers few detailed analyses of their spatial and psycho-social ordering and this thesis seeks to fill that gap. The approach is a hermeneutics of praxis, using ethnographic methods, in-depth interviews, and situating the information spatially using architectural drawing techniques. It offers a novel method of investigating and understanding the structures and processes which make up the high streets and which, in aggregate, make the whole city. Tottenham High Road is used here as a case study, a vehicle through which to interpret evidence about the existence and nature of depth, with its manifold structures. Understanding depth is vital to understanding high streets, so this thesis allows a deeper and richer interpretation of high streets than has previously been possible. There is a problem in planning orthodoxy around high streets, typified in Tottenham: the richness of depth is flattened and codified, in order to frame swathes of city as sites from which to reap economic reward. In fact, depth contains all of human life, and understanding it, therefore, is an ethical responsibility for planning. Depth has a number of characteristics, ordered by different processes and forces. Firstly, physical order, shaped by both economic and social forces. For example, the most public uses are found in the 'shallowest' parts of depth, and these are the most valuable sites because they command the greatest passing trade. Secondly, depth has a social order, through playing out of place ballet by people as they live their lives. The social order operates interdependently and reciprocally with the physical order of depth. Commitment between people and places (citizenship) results in special place cultures, which are hosted in depth. Depth has variation in the scope of decorum from the outer edge of the block to the centre: more things are possible inside the block than at its edge.  The insights about depth in this thesis are relevant to many areas of life: to planning, to politics and to existing theory, because depth provides an account for the ethical order in which other areas of human life take place. With an understanding of depth it is possible to evaluate planning proposals, efforts at ensuring political participation, to shed light on existing theories such as Cosmopolitanism, and to add a valuable layer of information about the real structures of London to the existing literature.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jane Clossick•  9  Urban Geography, Architecture, Ethnography, Urban PlanningClass Conflicts and Planning: A Case Study of Contemporary Development at King's Cross in London.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ståle Holgersen•  20  Urban Geography, Marxism, Urban Planning, ClassCities and systemic change for sustainability: Prevailing epistemologies and an emerging  research agendaCities are key for sustainability and the radical systemic changes required to enable equitable human development within planetary boundaries. Their particular role in this regard has become the subject of an emerging and highly... moreCities are key for sustainability and the radical systemic changes required to enable equitable human development within planetary boundaries. Their particular role in this regard has become the subject of an emerging and highly interdisciplinary scientific debate. Drawing on a qualitative literature review, this paper identifies and scrutinizes the principal fields involved, asking for their respective normative orientation, interdisciplinary constitution, theories and methods used, and empirical basis to provide orientations for future research. It recognizes four salient research epistemologies, each focusing on a distinct combination of drivers of change: (A) transforming urban metabolisms and political ecologies; (B) configuring urban innovation systems for green economies; (C) building adaptive urban communities and ecosystems; and (D) empowering urban grassroots niches and social innovation. The findings suggest that future research directed at cities and systemic change towards sustainability should (1) explore interrelations between the above epistemologies, using relational geography and governance theory as boundary areas; (2) conceive of cities as places shaped by and shaping interactions between multiple socio-technical and social-ecological systems; (3) focus on agency across systems and drivers of change, and develop corresponding approaches for intervention and experimentation; and (4) rebalance the empirical basis and methods employed, strengthening transdisciplinarity in particular.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marc Wolfram and +1Niki  Frantzeskaki•  26  Urban Geography, Sociotechnical Systems, Political Ecology, Social-Ecological SystemsTheory of the Border (Oxford University Press, 2016)There are more types of borders today than ever before in history. Borders of all kinds define every aspect of social life in the twenty-first century. From the biometric data that divides the smallest aspects of our bodies to the aerial... moreThere are more types of borders today than ever before in history. Borders of all kinds define every aspect of social life in the twenty-first century. From the biometric data that divides the smallest aspects of our bodies to the aerial drones that patrol the immense expanse of our domestic and international airspace, we are defined by borders. They can no longer simply be understood as the geographical divisions between nation-states. Today, their form and function has become too complex, too hybrid. What we need now is a theory of the border that can make sense of this hybridity across multiple domains of social life. Rather than viewing borders as the result or outcome of pre-established social entities like states, Thomas Nail reinterprets social history from the perspective of the continual and constitutive movement of the borders that organize and divide society in the first place. Societies and states are the products of bordering, Nail argues, not the other way around. Applying his original movement-oriented theoretical framework "kinopolitics" to several major historical border regimes (fences, walls, cells, and checkpoints), Theory of the Border pioneers a new methodology of "critical limology," that provides fresh tools for the analysis of contemporary border politics.Save to LibraryDownloadby Thomas Nail•  247  Critical Theory, European History, Cultural History, Cultural StudiesSolidarity and collective forms of social reproduction: The social and political legacy of Syntagma Square, AthensThe latest encampments in public spaces, such as Occupy Wall Street, Taksim Square and Syntagma Square, have highlighted the significance of public space in shaping social, economic and political struggles around the world. In this paper,... moreThe latest encampments in public spaces, such as Occupy Wall Street, Taksim Square and Syntagma Square, have highlighted the significance of public space in shaping social, economic and political struggles around the world. In this paper, drawing on a qualitative study of Syntagma Square in Athens, Greece, we confirm that spontaneous, self-organised movements, such the Aganaktismenoi (Indignant) movement, could function as intermediaries between protest and resistance, leading to the institution of urban practices of commoning. We argue that the innovative attributes of such movements inspire and trigger the introduction of new decision-making mechanisms, social relationships and political subjectivities and the institution of solidarity and collective forms of social reproduction. We conclude that these initiatives constitute a radicalization of political struggles and have a positive effect both in terms of increased civic participation and the emergence of new collective identities and political subjectivities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dimitris Pettas•  8  Social Movements, Cultural Geography, Social Geography, Urban GeographyLadislav Hosák - Rudolf Šrámek: Místní jména na Moravě a ve Slezsku. (Díl 1, A-L) / Place names in Moravia and Silesia. (Volume 1, A-L) / Ortsnamen in Mähren und Schlesien. (Band 1, A-L) / Umieść nazwy na Morawach i Śląsku. (Tom 1, A-L)Kniha byla vydána v Praze roku 1970 / The book was published in Prague in 1970.Save to LibraryDownloadby Digital library Bohemia•  17  History, Cultural History, Cultural Studies, GeographyFinancial Geographies of Real Estate and the City: A Literature ReviewThis is an expanded version of: - Aalbers MB (2018b) Financial geography II: Financial geographies of housing and real estate. Progress in Human Geography DOI:10.1177/0309132518819503. - Aalbers MB (2019a) Financial geography III: The... moreThis is an expanded version of:- Aalbers MB (2018b) Financial geography II: Financial geographies of housing and real estate. Progress in Human Geography DOI:10.1177/0309132518819503.- Aalbers MB (2019a) Financial geography III: The financialization of the city. Progress in Human Geography, in press.Financial geography is often understood as the geographies of money and finance, but this paper takes a different understand in which financial geography is a lens that can be applied to a range of topics (Aalbers, 2018a). This approach follows my historiography of financial geography, which suggests that financial geography is not simply a sub-sub-discipline embedded in economic geography; the field of financial geography is equally rooted in the sub-disciplines of political and urban geography (Aalbers, 2015a) and in this literature review I will look at a frontier of financial geography, that is, the intersection of economic and urban geography.My goal here is not to foreground ‘the city’ or ‘the urban’ as the privileged site of applying a financial geography lens, but rather a pragmatic choice to demonstrate how a financial lens can help to enrich different fields of geographical research. My conceptualization of the city is equally pragmatic: for the purpose of the literature review in this paper, I use it primarily as a container term to include studies of urban governance, housing, real estate and the built environment. This review is not the place to discuss the nature of ‘the urban’. It is also worth pointing out what I have not included here: studies of financial centres, such as the City of London, Wall Street, Raffles Place or Bandra Kurla. Research of financial centres and districts is, in a way, the recognized core of geographies of money and finance, not the frontier I want to prioritise here.In the following sections, I will first discuss financial geographies of housing, with a focus on mortgage debt, securitization and the rise of corporate landlords, but also the financialization of construction firms and social housing non-profits. Subsequent sections zoom in on financial geographies of 1) commercial real estate and large urban projects; and 2) the local state and (semi-)public sector. Finally, I draw some conclusions based on the cumulation of findings, diversity of perspectives, and spatialities and temporalities of financialization. In this literature review I have tried to include literature from non-English speaking countries where possible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Manuel Aalbers•  20  Real Estate, Urban Geography, Economic Geography, SecuritizationPATTERNS OF LAND USE IN AND AROUND KOLKATA CITY: A SPATIO -TEMPORAL ANALYSISUrbanization refers to the increase in the proportion of people living in urban areas and it leads to the urban expansion. Urban expansion is the indications of urbanization and it greatly affects socioeconomic growth and the decision... moreUrbanization refers to the increase in the proportion of people living in urban areas and it leads to the urban expansion. Urban expansion is the indications of urbanization and it greatly affects socioeconomic growth and the decision making process for urban development policies. Therefore analyzing the patterns of land use change is an essential issue and it is needed for land use planning and future land management. Kolkata is one of the major metropolitan cities in India. The percentage of land use change in the 'City of Joy' is less in city core areas and it is much high in city peripheral areas. The physical expansion of the city grew linearly in south-easterly and south-westerly direction beside the eastern side of the river Hooghly as we have seen in the recent satellite imageries. Kolkata Metropolitan Area (KMA) is spread over 1875.04 Sq.km (Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority, 2006). To analyse the expansion of the Kolkata city Remote Sensing and Geographical Information System (GIS) tool has been applied because it is very useful tool for analyzing land use changes on spatio-temporal scale. The main purpose of this paper is to analyze the spatial expansion of Kolkata city and to study the growth rate in the municipalities around Kolkata city within Kolkata Metropolitan Area. Side by side an effort has been done to find out the spatial patterns of land use change and vegetation cover change and lastly to identify the patterns of recent land use change within Kolkata Metropolitan Area (KMA).Save to LibraryDownloadby Sushobhan Majumdar•  8  Urban Geography, Remote Sensing, Urban Planning, Urban StudiesANTHROPOLOGIE DE LA VILLE"Aux frontières de l’achevé, de l’établi, de l’ordonné, du centre et du dominant, se trouvent le précaire, l’instable, le désordre, la périphérie et le dominé : une relation dynamique voire conflictuelle existe entre ces deux réalités,... more"Aux frontières de l’achevé, de l’établi, de l’ordonné, du centre et du dominant, se trouvent le précaire, l’instable, le désordre, la périphérie et le dominé : une relation dynamique voire conflictuelle existe entre ces deux réalités, qui est celle du faire-ville." Table des matières: Avant-proposIntroduction. De l’ethnographie des marges à l’anthropologie de la ville Première partie. La ville des anthropologuesChapitre 1. La ville comme hologrammeChapitre 2. Les savoirs urbains de l’anthropologieChapitre 3. Les situations élémentaires de la vie urbaine Deuxième partie. La ville à l’œuvreChapitre 4. Ce qui rend la ville familièreChapitre 5. Lieux, non-lieux, hors-lieuxChapitre 6. Brouillons de ville Troisième partie. La ville en mouvementsChapitre 7. La culture des villes, ou l’habit d’ArlequinChapitre 8. Imaginaire et politique des margesChapitre 9. Occupations, invasions, installations : l’agir urbain Conclusion. Du « droit à la ville » au « faire-ville »Save to LibraryDownloadby Michel AGIER•  15  Urban Geography, Anthropology, Social Anthropology, Political AnthropologyThe Oxford Handbook of Megaproject ManagementThe ambition for this inaugural edition of The Oxford Handbook of Megaproject Management is to become the ultimate source for state-of-the-art scholarship in the emerging field of megaproject management. The book offers a rigorous,... moreThe ambition for this inaugural edition of The Oxford Handbook of Megaproject Management is to become the ultimate source for state-of-the-art scholarship in the emerging field of megaproject management. The book offers a rigorous, research-oriented, up-to-date academic view of the discipline based on high-quality data and strong theory. Until lately, the literature in this new field was scattered over a large number of publications and disciplines making it difficult to obtain an overview of the history, key issues, and core readings. Megaproject Planning and Management: Essential Readings, Vols. I-II (2014) assembled the key historical texts in the field. Now the Oxford Handbook of Megaproject Management has been designed to provide the most important contemporary readings. Taken together, the two books are intended to map out the best of what is worth reading in the megaproject management literature, past and present.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bent Flyvbjerg•  32  Organizational Behavior, Management, Geography, Human GeographyThree phases of Danish cohousing: tenure and the development of an alternative housing formBroadly understood as a housing form that combines individual dwellings with substantial common facilities and activities aimed at everyday living, Danish cohousing communities (bofællesskaber) are often seen as pioneering and... moreBroadly understood as a housing form that combines individual dwellings with substantial common facilities and activities aimed at everyday living, Danish cohousing communities (bofællesskaber) are often seen as pioneering and comparatively successful. Yet, in spite of frequently being mentioned or addressed as case studies in the growing literature on cohousing and, more generally, alternative forms of housing, Danish cohousing experiences have not been systematically analysed since the 1980s. Emphasizing broader trends and evolving societal contexts, this article investigates the development of Danish cohousing over the past five decades. Through this historical analysis, the article also draws attention to the largely neglected issue of tenure structures in the evolution of cohousing. The multifaceted phenomenon of cohous-ing cannot and should not be reduced to issues of tenure. But if cohousing is to spread and contribute affordable alternatives to mainstream housing, tenure structures should be a key concern.Save to LibraryDownloadby Henrik Gutzon Larsen•  5  Urban Geography, Housing, Affordable Housing, Housing StudiesUrban geography in the era of globalization: the cities of the future Emerging knowledge and urban regulationsCette contribution collective rend compte des savoirs emergents mobilises par les geographes romands en matiere d&#39;analyse et de modelisation des diverses formes de relation a l&#39;espace que les individus et les groupes sociaux ne... moreCette contribution collective rend compte des savoirs emergents mobilises par les geographes romands en matiere d&#39;analyse et de modelisation des diverses formes de relation a l&#39;espace que les individus et les groupes sociaux ne cessent de produire et de transformer.Save to LibraryDownloadby Celine Rozenblat•Urban GeographyAtlas Ambiental de ArequipaEl Atlas Ambiental de Arequipa se constituye en una publicación de carácter académico con fines didácticos, que nace como una iniciativa del Dr. Carlos Zeballos Velarde quien lideró un grupo de investigadores y estudiantes, bajo el... moreEl Atlas Ambiental de Arequipa se constituye en una publicación de carácter académico con fines didácticos, que nace como una iniciativa del Dr. Carlos Zeballos Velarde quien lideró un grupo de investigadores y estudiantes, bajo el auspicio  de la Universidad Católica de Santa María. Este documento se constituye en una herramienta de educación ambiental de uso masivo con una metodología científica pero un lenguaje asequible, directamente ligado a varios de los 17 objetivos de Desarrollo Sostenible aprobados por la ONU dentro de la Agenda 2030 sobre el Desarrollo Sostenible, con el objeto de tener una oportunidad para que las diferentes sociedades mejoren la vida de todos, sin dejar a nadie atrás y donde podemos resaltar la defensa del medio ambiente y el combate al cambio climático.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Zeballos•  9  Urban Geography, Atlas, Educación Ambiental, GeografiaRevealing Environmental and Place Wholes: Lessons from Christopher Alexander's Theory of Wholeness and Bill Hillier's Space Syntax (2004)This article examines the conception of the everyday city as presented in the work of architect Christopher Alexander and architectural theorist Bill Hillier: Both thinkers suggest that, in the past, lively urban places arose... moreThis article examines the conception of the everyday city as presented in the work of architect Christopher Alexander and architectural theorist Bill Hillier: Both thinkers suggest that, in the past, lively urban places arose unself-consciousty through the routine daily behaviors of many individual users coming together in supportive space and place. In different ways. both thinkers ask whether, today, a similar manner of vital urban district can be made to happen self-conscioustv through explicit understanding transformed into design and policy principles. The aim for both Alexander and Hillier is place-based urban communities marked by lively streets, serendipitous public encounters, and informal sociability. The article begins by examining commonalities and differences in Alexander and Hillier's conceptions of environmental wholeness and urban place. Next. the article considers implications for urban design and, last, indicates the considerable value that the two thinkers' ideas offer environmental philosophy, particularly for understanding environmental wholes.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Seamon•  41  Urban Geography, Space Sciences, Space Syntax, Environmental PsychologyBrutalism, Ruins, and the Urban Imaginary of GentrificationAdopting a transnational approach, this chapter examines the connections between brutalist architecture, postindustrial ruins, urban squatting, and gentrification in the visual imaginary of cities such as London, Caracas, and Paris. The... moreAdopting a transnational approach, this chapter examines the connections between brutalist architecture, postindustrial ruins, urban squatting, and gentrification in the visual imaginary of cities such as London, Caracas, and Paris. The chapter focuses on a case study that brings together brutalism and ruins in a new, hybrid form specific to the era of globalization: the Torre David, an unfinished corporate skyscraper in Venezuela that was occupied by the city’s poor and temporarily transformed into a vertical concrete squat. Adapting Arjun Appadurai’s concept of spectral housing, the chapter considers how the visual treatment of brutalist architecture – particularly in institutionalized contexts such as Tate Britain and the Venice Architecture Biennale – produces a spectacle of the abject. This spectacle, I propose, ultimately reinforces contemporary urbanism’s addiction to gentrification, stylized boutique living, and glossy, generic architecture.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christoph Lindner•  11  Cultural Studies, Urban Geography, Art History, ArchitectureEcological frameworks for developing greenway plansGreenway planning theory and practice has been largely studied through the perspectives of landscape preservation, conservation and sociology. The future theory building on the topic relies on proper understanding of what the various... moreGreenway planning theory and practice has been largely studied through the perspectives of landscape preservation, conservation and sociology. The future theory building on the topic relies on proper understanding of what the various multidisciplinary theoretical, disciplinary and practical approaches are and how are they shaping the greenway planning theory and practice? This article addresses the gap in understanding through an in-depth study of ecological frameworks employed in greenway theory and practice, especially in the past decade. In the process, the article lends clarity to the emergent, multidisciplinary knowledge base, disciplinary leanings and typology. Ecological frameworks are studied in terms of fundamental drivers, empathies, and disciplinary influences and reveal the broader class of ecological frameworks, in the process. The results reveal that current ecological frameworks employed in greenway planning draw heavily from geographical and mathematical disciplines, besides drawing from biological conservation theories, and that most ecological frameworks are evolving and best classified as " emergent ". A new frame based on genotypic and phenotypic classification is proposed for developing Greenway theory.Save to LibraryDownloadby Archana Sharma•  10  Urban Geography, Landscape Architecture, Sustainable Development, Urban PlanningSmart Economy in Smart CitiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Bharat Dahiya and +1Prof. T M Vinod Kumar•  14  Urban Geography, Urban Planning, Urban Studies, Urban GovernanceFuck NeoliberalismYep, fuck it. Neoliberalism sucks. We don't need it.Save to LibraryDownloadby Simon  Springer•  180  Critical Theory, Management, Marketing, HistoryLes Expositions universelles et internationales, un objet d'étude géographique et urbanistique (Étude de cas préliminaire sur Barcelone)« Une idée, une cité et l’humanité » telle est la devise du B.I.E. (Bureau International des Expositions). Pour cette année 2002, Master villes : territoires et territorialités, j’ai décidé de consacrer mon travail sur les Expositions... more« Une idée, une cité et l’humanité » telle est la devise du B.I.E. (Bureau International des Expositions). Pour cette année 2002, Master villes : territoires et territorialités, j’ai décidé de consacrer mon travail sur les Expositions Universelles et Internationales – grands projets d’aménagement de l’espace. Une année de master recherche se veut un exercice d’approfondissement pour l’étudiant dans le domaine de la recherche. Le diplôme d’étude approfondie doit permettre à l’étudiant d’appréhender un sujet d’ordre général à partir d’une problématique générale, pour enfin ouvrir sur une question plus précise (une hypothèse de recherche, des hypothèses, une typologie, des solutions ou éclaircissements nouveaux). Pour ma part, j’ai décidé de commencer mes recherches sur les Expositions en tant qu’objet d’étude géographique et leurs impacts sur l’urbanisme, à partir d’une question basée sur le développement durable de la ville : « Les Expositions Universelles ou Internationales ont-elles un effet durable ou éphémère sur l’aménagement et la planification d’un territoire ou d’une cité ? ». Nous verrons tout au long du développement que rien n’est moins sûr concernant la ou les répercussions des effets négatifs ou positifs de ces manifestations géantes ; mais qu’au contraire leurs dimensions culturelles, sociétales et géographiques sont prépondérantes dans le choix de leurs organisations. On s’apercevra au fil du mémoire que la cette question et cette pratique sont en plein renouvellement du fait de la mondialisation et ses effets, mais aussi du processus de métropolisation et ses conséquences sur la dotation en infrastructures majeures pour les villes mondiales.Pour ouvrir mes propos, dans ma troisième partie, j’élabore une hypothèse de recherche sur la ville de Barcelone par rapport à la problématique de départ. Je préciserai ma recherche sur la capitale catalane à travers ses nombreux méga-événements. À ce titre, pour rentrer directement dans le sujet, j’ai associé à cette introduction, deux articles et deux commentaires permettant de mieux cerner et de comprendre la teneur de mon mémoire. Le premier article est un reportage de Nelly Wenger qui propose une lecture originale des effets durables de l’éphémère de l’Exposition Nationale suisse de 2002, le second est un article de Christophe Dechenay qui propose un commentaire sur la tenue possible de l’Exposition internationale en 2004 dans la banlieue parisienne1. L’analyse des ces deux propos nous montrent deux stratégies différentes, deux points de vue à prendre en compte pour ces projets reflétant une société et une grande métropole généralement. …Universal and international Exhibitions (World’s fair), anobject of geographical and town planning study (Preliminary Case Study Barcelona)Introduction "An idea, a city and humanity" is the motto of B.I.E. (International Office of Exhibitions). For this year, 2002, Master cities: territories and territoriality, I decided to dedicate my work on the World and International Exhibitions (world’s fair) - major development projects in space. A year of research master wants an up Exercises for the student in the field of research. The comprehensive study degree must enable students to grasp a general nature about from a general problem, to finally open on a more specific question (a research hypothesis, assumptions, and a typology of new solutions or explanations). For my part, I decided to start my research on shows as an object of geographical study and their impact on urban planning, from a question based on the sustainable development of the city: world’s fairs do they have sustainable or ephemeral impact on the development and planning of a city? We will see throughout the development as nothing is less sure about the impact or the negative or positive effects of these giant events; but to make their cultural, societal and geographical dimensions are paramount in the choice of their organizations. It will be seen over memory than this and this practice is in full renewal due to globalization and its effects, but also the metropolisation process and its impact on major infrastructure endowment for the world's cities.To open my remarks, in my third part, I develop a research hypothesis on Barcelona city compared to the initial problem. I will describe my research on the Catalan capital through its many mega-events. As such, to enter directly into the subject, I have associated with this introduction, two articles and two reviews to better identify and understand the content of my memory. The first item is a report by Nelly Wenger, which offers an original reading of the lasting effects of ephemeral of the Swiss National Exhibition in 2002; the second is an article by Christophe Dechenay offering a comment about the possible holding of the exhibition international in 2004 in the Paris suburbs (1). The analysis of these two comments shows us two views to be considered for these projects reflect a society and generally a great metropolis. BALLESTER Patrice, (2002), Les Expositions universelles et internationales comme objet d’étude géographique et urbanistique (étude préliminaire sur Barcelone), mémoire de master 2 recherche (titre de), Université de Toulouse Le –Mirail, 174 p.Save to LibraryDownloadby PATRICE BALLESTER•  9  Urban Geography, Landscape Architecture, Barcelona, Town planning"Cindy R. Lobel, Urban Appetites. Food and Culture in Nineteenth-Century New York (Chicago, University of Chicago Press, 2014)", in Histoire@Politique 30 (2016), online.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Do Paço•  20  American History, Cultural History, Urban Geography, American StudiesQuand les investissements privés dictent les projets urbains de revitalisation urbaine : une tendance inéluctable ? Le cas de Porto (2013)Durant les années 2000, on observe un changement de paradigme dans la conduite et dans les modes de financement des projets de régénération urbaine à Porto. Menées par la nouvelle société de réhabilitation Porto Vivo SRU, ces opérations... moreDurant les années 2000, on observe un changement de paradigme dans la conduite et dans les modes de financementdes projets de régénération urbaine à Porto. Menées par la nouvelle société de réhabilitation Porto Vivo SRU, cesopérations doivent être, si possible, auto-financées. Cette tendance accrue à la course au capital a pour corollaire unestratégie très " opportuniste" de la part de Porto Vivo et de la Ville dans la politique de développement urbain. De fait, lesopportunités d’investissement pénalisent toute logique cohérente de développement des espaces urbains en orientantfortement le programme des ces projets. Pour autant, il semblerait que d’autres alternatives soient possibles.Save to LibraryDownloadby sandra guinand•  3  Urban Geography, Urban Planning, Urban StudiesWhat’s in a Nickname? In the case of Chiraq, a Whole LotSave to LibraryDownloadby Janna Caspersen and +1Derek H Alderman•  13  Human Geography, Cultural Geography, Urban Geography, Place AttachmentTerritoriality and the home environment in a Greek urban communitySave to LibraryDownloadby Renee Hirschon•  2  Urban Geography, Socio-Cultural AnthropologyMordor MadnessSave to LibraryDownloadby Dorota Celińska-Janowicz•  6  Urban Geography, Economic Geography, Urban Planning, Urban StudiesLivre Le Mzab Regards d'urbanisme et de sociologie BBenyoucef-2019En pleine tempête mondialiste, où le sens humain des choses se dilue, l’Homme se recherche, recherche son humanité et s’efforce de la réinventer. Dans cette quête du sens humain, certains lieux demeurent des repères incontournables pour y... moreEn pleine tempête mondialiste, où le sens humain des choses se dilue, l’Homme se recherche, recherche son humanité et s’efforce de la réinventer. Dans cette quête du sens humain, certains lieux demeurent des repères incontournables pour y puiser inspiration et force. Le M’zab, en est un !Le M’zab relate l’histoire d'une communauté de désert qui a défié les épreuves d'un parcours millénaire, pour livrer à l’humanité un joyau architectural et urbanistique, classé patrimoine universel.L’architecture et l’urbanisme du M’zab ne cessent d’inspirer de nombreux et talentueux architectes et urbanistes de notre temps, entre autres : Le Corbusier, André Ravéreau, Fernand Pouillon, etc.Le Corbusier s’en est inspiré dans la chapelle de Ronchamp.  D’ailleurs, lorsque à court d'inspiration, il sautait dans son avion pour visiter le M’zab.Le livre s’adresse à tout lecteur en quête d’expériences inspirantes. Il s’adresse aussi à tout sociologue, historien, architecte et urbaniste curieux de comprendre les secrets d’un espace et d’une société au parcours exceptionnel.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brahim Benyoucef•  11  Sociology, Urban Geography, Urban Studies, UrbanismGli agrumi nell'immaginario arabo-normanno: le radici di Palermo tra figurazioni e contestazioniSave to LibraryDownloadby Emanuela Caravello•  11  Cultural Geography, Urban Geography, Cultural World Heritage Sites, Destination ImageLooking Beyond the SchedulesIdeally, national development should focus on the ability of the country to improve the social welfare of all its people. What happens when tribal societies are forced to sacrifice their sustenance and welfare in the name of 'national... moreIdeally, national development should focus on the ability of the country to improve the social welfare of all its people. What happens when tribal societies are forced to sacrifice their sustenance and welfare in the name of 'national development?'Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Aashish Xaxa•  20  Sociology, Cultural Studies, Urban Geography, AnthropologyThe brokerage role of small states and territories in global corporate networksGlobal economic activity is networked through cross-national linkages between firm headquarters, branches, and subsidiaries. Brokerage emerges as a key territorial function of this network, with some places acting as gateways or... moreGlobal economic activity is networked through cross-national linkages between firm headquarters, branches, and subsidiaries. Brokerage emerges as a key territorial function of this network, with some places acting as gateways or intermediaries for flows of global knowledge, information, or trade. This function is particularly salient for small states and territories leveraging the benefits of borrowed size by offering global professional services, warehousing, logistics, shipping, and finance to wealthy nations or high-net individuals. Nonetheless, to date our understanding of how small states and territories facilitate wealth accumulation is limited to broad concepts of their role as 'gateways' or 'brokers'. Drawing on the Gould and Fernandez (1989) brokerage typology and a network analysis applied to the ties between approximately 700,000 firm headquarter and subsidiary locations of 13 of the worlds' largest stock exchanges, we explore the brokerage role of small states and territories through case studies of Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Panama. Brokerage is found to play an important role in the economy of all four. We argue that each of these small states and territories is uniquely positioned as a broker in global corporate networks, but that this role differs according to geo-economic and political positionality.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kirsten  Martinus•  7  Urban Geography, Economic Geography, Social Networks, Globalization山間地域におけるグリーンツーリズムと世界遺産観光の持続可能性 ─ 熊野古道 （小辺路） の通る奈良県十津川村神納川区の事例から ─ 　Sustainability of Rural Tourism and World Heritage Tourism in Mountainous Areas : A case study in Kannogawa Area of Totsukawa Village where has Kumano-Kodo KohechiThe aim of this study is to examine sustainability of rural tourism and world heritage tourism in mountainous areas. An empirical case study was conducted in Kannogawa Ward of Totsukawa Village, located along the Kumano-Kodo Kohechi... moreThe aim of this study is to examine sustainability of rural tourism and world heritage tourism in mountainous areas. An empirical case study was conducted in Kannogawa Ward of Totsukawa Village, located along the Kumano-Kodo Kohechi Pilgrimage Route designated as a UNESCO World Heritage site in 2004. Since then, Kohechi has got some tourists. However, there were almost no accommodation facilities in Kannogawa Ward. Meanwhile, "Children rural mountain fishing village exchange project" which was one of measures to promote rural tourism was introduced by national government, for the fifth year grade pupils at elementary schools. More than 10 farmers in Kannogawa began accepting children from 2008. However, due to the aging of the farmers, the project sorting of promotion measures in national government, and a disaster caused by typhoon in 2011, only 2 farm inns and a cottage are currently maintained. Due to the promotional activities to foreign people conducted by Tanabe City Kumano Tourism Bureau, number of visitors who walk Kohechi has increased, although visits by children and families aimed at rural experiences have almost disappeared. Factors of continuing the management of 2 farm inns are that there are multiple members of the family who run the business, they are relatively healthy, and there are other sources of income, moreover, their passion and pleasure to interact with tourists are high. The results show that, although socioeconomic situation is severe in the study area, the promotion of rural tourism made existence of accommodation facilities that can respond to increase the number of World Heritage tourists, regional visualization, residents' understanding of tourists, local food materials, local and domestic fans at home and abroad possible. Rural tourism is a key not only for sustaining the pilgrimage route designated as World Heritage but for sustaining the rural communities located along the route in remote rural areas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daichi Kohmoto  河本大地•  8  Geography, Urban Geography, Japanese Studies, EcotourismUrban Food Policies : Decentralized Cooperation and African  CitiesThe article introduces Urban Food Policies (UFP) in the field of decentralized cooperation as a relatively new field of work, exchange and action-oriented research within and between cities, and local authorities in the global North... moreThe article introduces Urban Food Policies (UFP) in the field of decentralized cooperation as a relatively new field of work, exchange and action-oriented research within and between cities, and local authorities in the global North and South. Indeed, a plethora of cities have been implementing actions with different implementation mechanisms indicating that UFP can generate positive stimuli, new perspectives, and reciprocal benefits. The article examines a number of ongoing international projects to then focus on the relevant programs developed in Italy and on the African continent, looking into aspects of governance, outlining essential features of decentralized cooperation and of these ongoing development projects, and concluding with potential prospects in this area.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria  Bottiglieri•  14  Urban Geography, Food Safety, Global cities, AfricaThe Atlas of Urbanization in the NetherlandsThe Netherlands have been an urbanized country since the Middle Ages. Over the last ten centuries a dense pattern of small, large, old and new towns emerged. How did this pattern develop and why do our towns look as they do? From... moreThe Netherlands have been an urbanized country since the Middle Ages. Over the last ten centuries a dense pattern of small, large, old and new towns emerged. How did this pattern develop and why do our towns look as they do? From Friesland to Limburg, and from Groningen to Zeeland, dozens of towns were built during the Middle Ages, most of them along rivers and main waterways. When the Dutch Republic became a world power in the Dutch Golden Age, large extensions were realized in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Leiden. After a period of economic recession in the 18th century, the industrialisation caused some of these cities to prosper again from 1850 onwards. This not only led to a rapid growth of existing cities, but also to the emergence of new cities. Industrial centres like Tilburg and Hengelo and residential towns like Apeldoorn and Hilversum sprang up along the newly developed railways. Built under state control, new cities like Almere, Emmen and Zoetermeer emerged in the 20th century. In the post-war welfare state motorways, residential areas and industrial estates were laid out over the country at unprecedented speed. The Atlas of Urbanization in the Netherlands provides the first national overview of 1000 years of urban development. Its basis lies in an analysis of the 35 largest cities in the present-day Netherlands. By means of photographs, paintings and newly developed maps the growth and shrinkage of the Dutch cities is shown.Save to LibraryDownloadby Menne Kosian and +1Jaap Evert Abrahamse•  10  History, Geography, Urban Geography, Cultural HeritagePlaisance et urbanité. L'intégration des ports dans les villes contemporainesPlaisance et Urbanité. L'intégration des ports dans les villes contemporaines. Édité par Vincent Herbert, Christophe Gibout Une quinzaine de contributions de chercheurs français et étrangers, universitaires dans divers champs... morePlaisance et Urbanité. L'intégration des ports dans les villes contemporaines. Édité par  Vincent Herbert, Christophe GiboutUne quinzaine de contributions de chercheurs français et étrangers, universitaires dans divers champs disciplinaires et praticiens.Comprendre ce qui se joue dans la relation renouvelée des villes à leurs ports de plaisance : telle est l'ambition de cet ouvrage qui réunit des chercheurs en sciences sociales et praticiens de plusieurs pays européens. En croisant leurs regards disciplinaires et leurs approches, les auteurs pointent des terrains portuaires originaux et des expériences urbaines précises dont ils questionnent la valeur d'exemplarité et d'inspiration. Ce faisant, ils entendent saisir ce qui s'est joué d'un point de vue historique et anthropologique autour de l'invention et du développement de la plaisance dans les villes portuaires, les enjeux juridiques, politiques, sociaux, culturels ou spatiaux d'aménagement des relations entre les ports de plaisance et les villes qui les abritent, enfin les dynamiques socio-économiques et spatiales à l'oeuvre sur ces territoires singuliers et actuellement en pleine recomposition. Coordination : Christophe Gibout (Sociologue) & Vincent Herbert (Géographe), laboratoire TVES (EA 4477), Université du Littoral –Côte d'Opale. Liste des contributeurs (ordre alphabétique) : Patrice Ballester (Géographe,Save to LibraryDownloadby Christophe Gibout and +1Vincent Herbert•  7  Urban Geography, Urban Studies, Urban Sociology, Public SpacePride in the city∗Urban pride is an individual and collective response to living in a given city. Unlike other emotions such as life satisfaction or happiness with which it is weakly positively correlated, pride involves stake holding; to be proud of... moreUrban pride is an individual and collective response to living in a given city. Unlike other emotions such as life satisfaction or happiness with which it is weakly positively correlated, pride involves stake holding; to be proud of something requires having an investment in its success emotionally, financially or culturally. For this study I specify a multilevel model based on responses to a five category survey question which asks residents how proud they are in the ‘look and feel of their city’. Responses to the 2008 survey are distributed over almost 6000 residents across 12 cities in New Zealand. Although the primary variation is among individuals, urban pride also varies by city and I show how differences in urban context affect the way different types of stake holding temper urban pride. JEL classification: R19, R590, I390, H890Save to LibraryDownloadby Philip S Morrison•  8  Urban Geography, Urban Anthropology, Urban Planning, Urban StudiesLas ciudades medias de España y sus coronas en el siglo XXI (2000-2017): dinámica demográfica y desarrollo inmobiliarioRESUMEN: El inicio del siglo XXI ha sido muy compulsivo en la dinámica urbana española. La causa principal ha sido el crecimiento urbanístico explosivo que tuvo lugar entre 2000 y 2008 y su siguiente paralización por la Gran Recesión. El... moreRESUMEN: El inicio del siglo XXI ha sido muy compulsivo en la dinámica urbana española. La causa principal ha sido el crecimiento urbanístico explosivo que tuvo lugar entre 2000 y 2008 y su siguiente paralización por la Gran Recesión. El artículo analiza este proceso centrado en las ciudades medias y sus respectivas coronas dentro del contexto nacional. Se plantea un estudio comparado de la evolución de la población y de las unidades constructivas de las ciudades medias y sus áreas urbanas. Las fuentes utilizadas son el Padrón Municipal de Habitantes y el Catastro Inmobiliario. La investigación se realiza mediante un método deductivo. Los resultados obtenidos muestran una respuesta dispar de las ciudades españolas dentro del patrón común marcado por el punto de inflexión que supuso la crisis, con un contexto general de desarrollo hasta 2008 y de caída posterior. Además, se produce un comportamiento diferente del crecimiento urbano en relación con la proximidad a una gran área metropolitana.ABSTRACT: The beginning of the 21st century was very compulsive concerning to the Spanish urban dynamic. The main cause has been the explosive urban growth that took place between 2000 and 2008 and its next stoppage by the Great Recession. The article analyses this process centred on medium-sized cities and their respective crowns within the national context. A comparative study of the evolution of the population and the constructive units in medium-sized cities and their urban areas was presented. The sources used are the Municipal Register of Inhabitants and the Real Estate Cadastre. The research is carried out by a deductive method. The results obtained show a disparate response of Spanish cities within the common pattern marked by the tipping point of the crisis, with a general context of growth until 2008 and subsequent fall. In addition, there is a different behaviour of urban growth in relation to proximity to a large metropolitan area.Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Antonio Garcia González and +1Luis Alfonso Escudero-Gómez•  13  Urban Geography, Spain, España, Urban SystemsDisciplining de facto development: water theft and hydrosocial order in TijuanaInformal and illegal water provision is increasingly targeted as an impediment to state authorities and water development in the Global South. In contrast, this paper uses a biopolitical approach to argue that state authorities use... moreInformal and illegal water provision is increasingly targeted as an impediment to state authorities and water development in the Global South. In contrast, this paper uses a biopolitical approach to argue that state authorities use illegal forms of water provision as a source of power, particularly to discipline certain spaces and sectors of the population; and moreover, that such power geometries are deeply uneven. To support these claims, Iexamine the production and enforcement of illegal provision in two communities located in Tijuana, Mexico. I examine how water theft functions—including the key objects andpractices that shape the illicit abstraction and distribution of water—and then examine how water theft is policed and enforced by state authorities. Following Foucault, I suggest theseprocesses occur on a bodily and infrastructural level to discipline water users. Findings indicate that while water theft supplies a vital resource for marginalized citizens—oftenin communal ways that exceed state power—the alternating tolerance and repression of water illegality is largely used by authorities to maintain hydrosocial order and, in effect,to control informal modes of development. The paper concludes with implications for understanding water informality and the uneven spatiality of state power.Save to LibraryDownloadby Katie Meehan•  2  Urban Geography, Water governanceReview of "Spatial Planning and Governance: Understanding UK Planning" by Mark Tewdwr-JonesSave to LibraryDownloadby Jonathan Clarke•  3  Urban Geography, Urban Planning, Urban GovernanceJust Cities Save to LibraryDownloadby Jieun  Lee, PhD•  14  Human Geography, Social Geography, Urban Geography, Economic GeographyTales of the city: Understanding urban complexity through the medium of concept mappingSave to LibraryDownloadby John R. Gold•  3  Urban Geography, Teaching and Learning, Concept MappingШешнёв А. С., Ковалёв М. В. Санитарное состояние овражно-балочных систем и проблема организации стока с городской территории Саратова в конце XIX века // Изв. Сарат. ун-та. Нов. сер. Сер. Науки о Земле. 2018. Т. 18, вып. 3. С. 214–218.Sheshnev A. S., Kovalev M. V. Sanitary Condition of the Gully System and the Problem of the Organization of Runoff From the city Territory of Saratov in the Late XIX Century. Izv. Saratov Univ. (N. S.), Ser. Earth Sciences, 2018, vol. 18,... moreSheshnev A. S., Kovalev M. V. Sanitary Condition of the Gully System and the Problem of the Organization of Runoff From the city Territory of Saratov in the Late XIX Century. Izv. Saratov Univ. (N. S.), Ser. Earth Sciences, 2018, vol. 18, iss. 3, рр. 214–218. (in Russian).At the end of the 19th century the urban sanitary commission was created for the solution of problems of improvement in the territory of Saratov. In 1890 this commission made the inspection of Glebuchev ravine as zones of sanitary and ecological trouble. By results of researches health officers prepared the analysis of a condition of the territory and the recommendation on the improvement of Saratov. The expressed opinions differed significantly, and reflected the different views on the mechanism of improvement of the sanitary and hygienic situation. This article is based on archival documents, which was used for the first time.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexandr Sheshnev•  5  Landscape Ecology, Urban Geography, Geomorphology, EcologyGrenade : quand le tourisme cristallise le centre-historique des villesCe projet de recherche interroge les interdépendances entre tourisme et patrimonialisation. La ville de Grenade en Andalousie (Espagne) est ici étudiée afin de comprendre d'une part l'impact de l'implantation des Airbnb sur l'évolution... moreCe projet de recherche interroge les interdépendances entre tourisme et patrimonialisation. La ville de Grenade en Andalousie (Espagne) est ici étudiée afin de comprendre d'une part l'impact de l'implantation des Airbnb sur l'évolution démographique des quartiers de la ville. D'autre part, une analyse iconographie est réalisée afin de comprendre l'impact des politiques patrimoniales sur l'image des quartiers du centre historique  que s'en font les touristes et les habitantsSave to LibraryDownloadby Lucas Mourelle•  9  Social Geography, Urban Geography, Demography, Urban SociologySmart cities and digital workplace culture in the global European context: Amsterdam, London and ParisUntil recently, knowledge-intensive work activities have predominantly taken place in office buildings as a specialized form of economic infrastructure. New digital technologies together with an economic and organizational transition from... moreUntil recently, knowledge-intensive work activities have predominantly taken place in office buildings as a specialized form of economic infrastructure. New digital technologies together with an economic and organizational transition from closed firms to open platforms has changed the pattern of work within the modern metropolis. The office building is no longer the sole workplace typology and work activity has intensified in other urban locations. The questions then are: "How might smart cities reinterpret workplace culture at the urban scale outside the framework of office buildings typology?" and "Which tools and methodologies can be used to make digital workplace culture visible at the urban scale?" In order to answer these questions, workplaces are observed not as private architectural spaces but as compositions of "subjective urban experiences". A Twitter data analysis provides evidence of workplace spatial culture within the innovative global cities of Amsterdam, London and Paris, interpreted as behavior settings. This analysis shows that office pattern locations are generally distributed independently to knowledge intensive business services and workplace demand, as expressed through social media analyses. In addition to office buildings, transit hubs, urban amenities and new digital services play a key role in reframing workplace location. Moving beyond generic visions for digital work in outer spaces, big data therefore provides specific insights and incentives for considering workplace design at the urban scale.Save to LibraryDownloadby michelangelo vallicelli•  23  Urban Geography, European Studies, Workplace Studies, Urban StudiesNextLast »Related TopicsUrban StudiesFollowFollowingUrban SociologyFollowFollowingUrban PlanningFollowFollowingGentrificationFollowFollowingUrbanismFollowFollowingUrban PoliticsFollowFollowingCritical GeographyFollowFollowingUrban AnthropologyFollowFollowingHuman GeographyFollowFollowingUrban HistoryFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023