Kurdish languages - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Classification and origin
2Subdivisions
3Zazaki and Gorani
4History
5Current status
6Phonology
7Grammar
8Writing system
9See also
10Notes
11References
12External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Kurdish languages
126 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛअंगिकाАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésܐܪܡܝܐԱրեւմտահայերէնAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBoarischBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskالدارجةDeutschDolnoserbskiEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGalegoگیلکی客家語/Hak-kâ-ngîХальмг한국어HawaiʻiՀայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliКомиKurdîКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMāoriमराठीمازِرونیBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNovialOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусскийСаха тылаᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்TaclḥitTaqbaylitТатарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt文言吴语ייִדיש粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadView sourceView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Kurdish language)
Northwestern Iranian dialect continuum
KurdishKurdî / کوردیNative toTurkey, Iraq, Iran, Syria, Armenia, AzerbaijanRegionKurdistan, Anatolia, Caucasus, Khorasan, Kurdish diasporaEthnicityKurdsNative speakers25 million (2022)[1]Language familyIndo-European
Indo-IranianIranianWesternNorthwesternKurdishDialects
Northern Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Central Kurdish (Sorani)
Southern Kurdish (Xwarîn, Palewani)
Laki[2]
Writing system
Hawar alphabet (Latin script; used mostly in Turkey and Syria)
Sorani alphabet (Perso-Arabic script; used mostly in Iraq and Iran)
Cyrillic alphabet (former Soviet Union)
Armenian alphabet (1921–29 in Soviet Armenia)[3][4][5]
Official statusOfficial language in Iraq[6][a]
 Kurdistan Region[7]
 Rojava[8][9]Recognised minoritylanguage in Armenia[10]Language codesISO 639-1kuISO 639-2kurISO 639-3kur – inclusive codeIndividual codes:kmr – Northern Kurdishckb – Central Kurdishsdh – Southern Kurdishlki – Laki KurdishGlottologkurd1259Linguasphere58-AAA-a (North Kurdish incl. Kurmanji & Kurmanjiki) + 58-AAA-b (Central Kurdish incl. Dimli/Zaza & Gurani) + 58-AAA-c (South Kurdish incl. Kurdi)Geographic distribution of Kurdish dialects and other Iranian languages spoken by Kurds
  Kurmanji (Northern Kurdish)
  Sorani (Central Kurdish)
  Mixed areas
This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
 
 Part of a series on: Kurdish history and Kurdish culture
People
List of Kurds
Population
Homeland
Kurdistan
Turkey (Northern Kurdistan)
Iran (Eastern Kurdistan)
Iraq (Southern Kurdistan)
Syria (Western Kurdistan)
Diaspora
Armenia
Australia
Azerbaijan
Belgium
Canada
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Iraq
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Lebanon
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Palestine
Pakistan
Romania
Russia
Syria
Sweden
Turkmenistan
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
History
Timeline of Kurdish uprisings
Ancient
Karduchian dynasties
Corduene
Zabdicene
Cyrtians
Moxoene
Kayusids
Medieval
Shahrizor
Sadakiyans
Mir Jafar Dasni
Aishanids
Daisam
Shaddadids
Rawadids
Hasanwayhids
Annazids
Marwanids
Hadhabani
Hazaraspids
Ayyubids
Zands
Badlis
Ardalan
Badinan
Soran
Mokryan
Baban
Modern
Kurdistansky Uyezd
Kurdish rebellions during World War I
Simko Shikak revolt
Koçgiri Rebellion
Ararat rebellion
Dersim Rebellion
Kingdom of Kurdistan
Kurdish Republic of Ararat
Republic of Mahabad
Al-Anfal campaign
Iraqi Kurdistan (Kurdistan Region)
Iranian Kurdistan
Turkish Kurdistan
Syrian Kurdistan
Culture
Kurdish culture
Clothing
Cuisine
Celebrations
Dance
Flag
Historical sites
Language
Folklore
Literature
Music
Kurdish philosophers
Languages
Kurdish languages
Kurmanji
Sorani
Xwarin
Zaza
Laki
Gorani
Religion
Islam
Spread
Christianity
Judaism
Shabakism
Yarsanism
Yazdânism
Yazidism
Zoroastrianism
vte
Kurdish (Kurdî, کوردی) is a language or a group of languages spoken by Kurds in the geo-cultural region of Kurdistan and the Kurdish diaspora. Kurdish languages constitutes a dialect continuum, many of which are not mutually intelligible,[11][12] belonging to Western Iranian languages in the Indo-European language family. The main three dialects or languages of Kurdish are Northern Kurdish (Kurmanji), Central Kurdish (Sorani), and Southern Kurdish (Xwarîn).
A separate group of non-Kurdish Northwestern Iranian languages, the Zaza–Gorani languages, are also spoken by several million ethnic Kurds.[13][14][15] The majority of the Kurds speak Kurmanji,[16] and most Kurdish texts are written in Kurmanji and Sorani. Kurmanji is written in the Hawar alphabet, a derivation of the Latin script, and Sorani is written in the Sorani alphabet, a derivation of Arabic script.
The classification of Laki as a dialect of Southern Kurdish or as a fourth language under Kurdish is a matter of debate,[2] but the differences between Laki and other Southern Kurdish dialects are minimal.[17]
The literary output in Kurdish was mostly confined to poetry until the early 20th century, when more general literature became developed. Today, the two principal written Kurdish dialects are Kurmanji and Sorani. Sorani is, along with Arabic, one of the two official languages of Iraq and is in political documents simply referred to as "Kurdish".[18][19]
Classification and origin
The Kurdish languages belong to the Iranian branch of the Indo-European family. They are generally classified as Northwestern Iranian languages, or by some scholars as intermediate between Northwestern and Southwestern Iranian.[20][page needed] Martin van Bruinessen notes that "Kurdish has a strong South-Western Iranian element", whereas "Zaza and Gurani [...] do belong to the north-west Iranian group".[21]
Ludwig Paul concludes that Kurdish seems to be a Northwestern Iranian language in origin,[11] but acknowledges that it shares many traits with Southwestern Iranian languages like Persian, apparently due to longstanding and intense historical contacts.
Windfuhr identified Kurdish dialects as Parthian, albeit with a Median substratum. Windfuhr and Frye assume an eastern origin for Kurdish and consider it as related to eastern and central Iranian dialects.[22][23]
The present state of knowledge about Kurdish allows, at least roughly, drawing the approximate borders of the areas where the main ethnic core of the speakers of the contemporary Kurdish dialects was formed. The most argued hypothesis on the localisation of the ethnic territory of the Kurds remains D.N. Mackenzie's theory, proposed in the early 1960s (Mackenzie 1961). Developing the ideas of P. Tedesco (1921: 255) and regarding the common phonetic isoglosses shared by Kurdish, Persian, and Baluchi, Mackenzie concluded that the speakers of these three languages may once have been in closer contact.
Subdivisions
Kurdish is divided into three or four groups, where dialects from different groups are not mutually intelligible without acquired bilingualism.[24][25]
Kurmanji is the largest dialect group, spoken by an estimated 15 to 20 million Kurds in Turkey, Syria, northern Iraq, and northwest and northeast Iran.
Sorani is spoken by an estimated 6 to 7 million Kurds in much of Iraqi Kurdistan and the Iranian Kurdistan Province.[26] Sorani is a written standard of Central Kurdish developed in the 1920s (named after the historical Soran Emirate) and was later adopted as the standard orthography of Kurdish as an official language of Iraq.[27]
Southern Kurdish (Pehlewani) is spoken in the Kermanshah, Ilam and Lorestan provinces of Iran and in the Khanaqin District of eastern Iraq.[28] Laki and Kordali (Palai) are often included in Southern Kurdish,[29] but they have some distinct features.[30]
In historical evolution terms, Kurmanji is less modified than Sorani and Pehlewani in both phonetic and morphological structure. The Sorani group has been influenced by among other things its closer cultural proximity to the other languages spoken by Kurds in the region including the Gorani language in parts of Iranian Kurdistan and Iraqi Kurdistan.[26][31]
Philip G. Kreyenbroek, an expert writing in 1992, says:
Since 1932 most Kurds have used the Roman script to write Kurmanji.... Sorani is normally written in an adapted form of the Arabic script.... Reasons for describing Kurmanji and Sorani as 'dialects' of one language are their common origin and the fact that this usage reflects the sense of ethnic identity and unity among the Kurds. From a linguistic or at least a grammatical point of view, however, Kurmanji and Sorani differ as much from each other as English and German, and it would seem appropriate to refer to them as languages. For example, Sorani has neither gender nor case-endings, whereas Kurmanji has both.... Differences in vocabulary and pronunciation are not as great as between German and English, but they are still considerable.[26]
According to Encyclopaedia of Islam, although Kurdish is not a unified language, its many dialects are interrelated and at the same time distinguishable from other Western Iranian languages. The same source classifies different Kurdish dialects as two main groups, northern and central.[31] The reality is that the average Kurmanji speaker does not find it easy to communicate with the inhabitants of Sulaymaniyah or Halabja.[25]
Some linguistic scholars assert that the term "Kurdish" has been applied extrinsically in describing the language the Kurds speak, whereas some ethnic Kurds have used the word term to simply describe their ethnicity and refer to their language as Kurmanji, Sorani, Hewrami, Kermanshahi, Kalhori or whatever other dialect or language they speak. Some historians have noted that it is only recently that the Kurds who speak the Sorani dialect have begun referring to their language as Kurdî, in addition to their identity, which is translated to simply mean Kurdish.[32]
The Mokriani variety of Sorani is widely spoken in Mokrian. Piranshahr and Mahabad are two principal cities of the Mokrian area.[33]
Zazaki and Gorani
Main articles: Zaza language and Gorani language
Zaza–Gorani languages, which are spoken by communities in the wider area who identify as ethnic Kurds, are not linguistically classified as Kurdish.[13][14][15] Zaza-Gorani is classified as adjunct to Kurdish, although authorities differ in the details.[20][page needed] groups Kurdish with Zaza Gorani within a "Northwestern I" group, while Glottolog based on Encyclopædia Iranica prefers an areal grouping of "Central dialects" (or "Kermanic") within Northwest Iranic, with Kurdish but not Zaza-Gorani grouped with "Kermanic".[34]
Gorani is distinct from Northern and Central Kurdish, yet shares vocabulary with both of them and there are some grammatical similarities with Central Kurdish.[35] The Hawrami dialects of Gorani includes a variety that was an important literary language since the 14th century, but it was replaced by Central Kurdish in the 20th century.[36]
European scholars have maintained that Gorani is separate from Kurdish and that Kurdish is synonymous with the Northern Kurdish group, whereas ethnic Kurds maintain that Kurdish encompasses any of the unique languages or dialects spoken by Kurds that are not spoken by neighbouring ethnic groups.[37]
Gorani is classified as part of the Zaza–Gorani branch of Indo-Iranian languages.[38] The Zaza language, spoken mainly in Turkey, differs both grammatically and in vocabulary and is generally not understandable by Gorani speakers but it is considered related to Gorani. Almost all Zaza-speaking communities,[39] as well as speakers of the closely related Shabaki dialect spoken in parts of Iraqi Kurdistan, identify themselves as ethnic Kurds.[13][40][41][42][43][44]
Geoffrey Haig and Ergin Öpengin in their recent study suggest grouping the Kurdish languages into Northern Kurdish, Central Kurdish, Southern Kurdish, Zaza, and Gorani, and avoid the subgrouping Zaza–Gorani.[45]
The notable professor Zare Yusupova has carried out a lot of work and research into the Gorani dialect (as well as many other minority/ancient Kurdish dialects).[46]
History
During his stay in Damascus, historian Ibn Wahshiyya came across two books on agriculture written in Kurdish, one on the culture of the vine and the palm tree, and the other on water and the means of finding it out in unknown ground. He translated both from Kurdish into Arabic in the early 9th century AD.[47]
Among the earliest Kurdish religious texts is the Yazidi Black Book, the sacred book of Yazidi faith. It is considered to have been authored sometime in the 13th century AD by Hassan bin Adi (b. 1195 AD), the great-grandnephew of Sheikh Adi ibn Musafir (d. 1162), the founder of the faith. It contains the Yazidi account of the creation of the world, the origin of man, the story of Adam and Eve and the major prohibitions of the faith.[48] According to The Cambridge History of the Kurds, "the first proper 'text'" written in Kurdish is a short Christian prayer. It was written in Armenian characters, and dates from the fifteenth century.[49] From the 15th to 17th centuries, classical Kurdish poets and writers developed a literary language. The most notable classical Kurdish poets from this period were Ali Hariri, Ahmad Khani, Malaye Jaziri and Faqi Tayran.
The Italian priest Maurizio Garzoni published the first Kurdish grammar titled Grammatica e Vocabolario della Lingua Kurda in Rome in 1787 after eighteen years of missionary work among the Kurds of Amadiya.[50] This work is very important in Kurdish history as it is the first acknowledgment of the widespread use of a distinctive Kurdish language. Garzoni was given the title Father of Kurdology by later scholars.[51] The Kurdish language was banned in a large portion of Kurdistan for some time. After the 1980 Turkish coup d'état until 1991 the use of the Kurdish language was illegal in Turkey.[52]
Current status
Road signs near Diyarbakır showing the place names in Turkish and Kurdish
Today, Sorani is an official language in Iraq. In Syria, on the other hand, publishing materials in Kurdish is forbidden,[53] though this prohibition is not enforced any more due to the Syrian civil war.[54]
Before August 2002, the Turkish government placed severe restrictions on the use of Kurdish, prohibiting the language in education and broadcast media.[55][56] In March 2006, Turkey allowed private television channels to begin airing programming in Kurdish. However, the Turkish government said that they must avoid showing children's cartoons, or educational programs that teach Kurdish, and could broadcast only for 45 minutes a day or four hours a week.[57] The state-run Turkish Radio and Television Corporation (TRT) started its 24-hour Kurdish television station on 1 January 2009 with the motto "we live under the same sky".[58] The Turkish prime minister sent a video message in Kurdish to the opening ceremony, which was attended by Minister of Culture and other state officials. The channel uses the X, W, and Q letters during broadcasting. However, most of these restrictions on private Kurdish television channels were relaxed in September 2009.[59] In 2010, Kurdish municipalities in the southeast began printing marriage certificates, water bills, construction and road signs, as well as emergency, social and cultural notices in Kurdish alongside Turkish. Also Imams began to deliver Friday sermons in Kurdish and Esnaf price tags in Kurdish. Many mayors were tried for issuing public documents in Kurdish language.[60] The Kurdish alphabet is not recognized in Turkey, and prior to 2013 the use of Kurdish names containing the letters X, W, and Q, which do not exist in the Turkish alphabet, was not allowed.[61][62] In 2012, Kurdish-language lessons became an elective subject in public schools. Previously, Kurdish education had only been possible in private institutions.[63]
In Iran, though it is used in some local media and newspapers, it is not used in public schools.[64][65] In 2005, 80 Iranian Kurds took part in an experiment and gained scholarships to study in Kurdish in Iraqi Kurdistan.[66]
In Kyrgyzstan, 96.21% of the Kurdish population speak Kurdish as their native language.[67] In Kazakhstan, the corresponding percentage is 88.7%.[68]
Phonology
Further information: Kurdish phonology
Grammar
Main article: Kurdish grammar
Writing system
Main article: Kurdish alphabets
See also
Kurdistan portalLanguage portal
Kurdish people
Kurdish culture
Kurdish literature
Kurdish Institute of Paris
Kurdish Institute of Istanbul
List of countries by Kurdish-speaking population
Notes
^ Official at state level
References
^ Kurdish languages at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ a b "Atlas of the Languages of Iran A working classification". Languages of Iran. Retrieved 25 May 2019.
^ MacCagg, William O.; Silver, Brian D., eds. (1979). Soviet Asian Ethnic Frontiers. Pergamon Press. p. 94. ISBN 9780080246376. Since the most active Soviet Kurdish center has been and continues to be Yerevan, the first alphabet used for publishing Kurdish in the USSR was the Armenian alphabet.
^ Курдский язык (in Russian). Krugosvet. ...в Армении на основе русского алфавита с 1946 (с 1921 на основе армянской графики, с 1929 на основе латиницы).
^ Khamoyan, M. (1986). "Քրդերեն [Kurdish language]". Soviet Armenian Encyclopedia (in Armenian). Vol. 12. p. 492. ...գրկ. լույս է տեսնում 1921-ից հայկ., 1929-ից՝ լատ., 1946-ից՝ ռուս. այբուբենով...
^ "Iraq's Constitution of 2005" (PDF). p. 4. Retrieved 14 April 2019.
^ "Kurdistan: Constitution of the Iraqi Kurdistan Region". Retrieved 14 April 2019.
^ "Social Contract - Sa-Nes". Self-Administration of North & East Syria Representation in Benelux. Archived from the original on 9 December 2018. Retrieved 22 March 2019.
^ "Rojava could be a model for all Syria". Salih Muslim. Nationalita. 29 July 2014. Retrieved 22 March 2019.
^ Pavlenko, Aneta (2008). Multilingualism in Post-Soviet Countries. Bristol, UK: Multilingual Matters. pp. 18–22. ISBN 978-1-84769-087-6.
^ a b Paul, Ludwig (2008). "Kurdish language I. History of the Kurdish language". In Yarshater, Ehsan (ed.). Encyclopædia Iranica. London and New York: Routledge. Archived from the original on 4 December 2011. Retrieved 28 August 2013.
^ Kreyenbroek, Philip G.; Sperl, Stefan (17 August 2005). The Kurds: A Contemporary Overview. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-134-90766-3.
^ a b c Kaya, Mehmet. The Zaza Kurds of Turkey: A Middle Eastern Minority in a Globalised Society. ISBN 1-84511-875-8
^ a b "Languages of the Middle East". Archived from the original on 18 January 2012. Retrieved 23 December 2011.
^ a b McDowall, David (14 May 2004). A Modern History of the Kurds: Third Edition - David McDowall - Google Books. ISBN 9781850434160. Retrieved 18 December 2012.
^ "Kurmanji Kurdish" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 24 February 2016.
^ "Lak Tribe". Iranica Online. Retrieved 25 May 2019.
^ Allison, Christine. The Yezidi oral tradition in Iraqi Kurdistan. 2001. "However, it was the southern dialect of Kurdish, Sorani, the majority language of the Iraqi Kurds, which received sanction as an official language of Iraq."
^ "Kurdish language issue and a divisive approach". Kurdish Academy of Language. Archived from the original on 17 October 2015.
^ a b Gernot Windfuhr, ed., 2009. The Iranian Languages.  Routledge.
^ Bruinessen, M.M. van. (1994). Kurdish nationalism and competing ethnic loyalties Archived 12 November 2011 at the Wayback Machine
^ Windfuhr, Gernot (1975), "Isoglosses: A Sketch on Persians and Parthians, Kurds and Medes", Monumentum H.S. Nyberg II (Acta Iranica-5), Leiden: 457-471
^ Frye, Richard N. (1984). Handbuch der Altertumswissenschaft: Alter Orient-Griechische Geschichte-Römische Geschichte. Band III,7: The History of Ancient Iran. C.H.Beck. pp. 29. ISBN 9783406093975.
^ Hassanpour, A. (1992). Nationalism and language in Kurdistan. San Francisco: Mellon Press. Also mentioned in: kurdishacademy.org Archived 9 July 2016 at the Wayback Machine
^ a b Postgate, J.N., Languages of Iraq, ancient and modern, [Iraq]: British School of Archaeology in Iraq, 2007, ISBN 978-0-903472-21-0, p.139
^ a b c Philip G. Kreyenbroek, "On the Kurdish Language", a chapter in the book The Kurds: A Contemporary Overview. The book is previewable at Google Book Search Archived 26 October 2022 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Joyce Blau, Methode de Kurde: Sorani, Editions L'Harmattan (2000), p. 20
^ Tavadze, Givi (2019). "Spreading of the Kurdish Language Dialects and Writing Systems Used in the Middle East" (PDF). Bulletin of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences: 172. Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 October 2022.
^ Mabry, Tristan James (2015). Nationalism, language, and Muslim exceptionalism. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. ISBN 9780812246919.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ Erik Anonby, Mortaza Taheri-Ardali & Amos Hayes (2019) The Atlas of the Languages of Iran (ALI). Iranian Studies 52. A Working Classification Archived 16 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine
^ a b D.N. MacKenzie, Language in Kurds & Kurdistan, Encyclopaedia of Islam.
^ [1] Archived 1 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Background to the language, community, and fieldwork 1.1 Introduction The present work is a grammatical description of the Mukri variety of Central". www.dissertation.xlibx.info. Archived from the original on 5 March 2017.
^ Glottolog 2.3, Subfamily: Central Iran Kermanic Archived 13 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine. "The Central dialects thus constitute the southernmost group of the so-called Northwest Iranian dialects," 
Central Dialects Archived 5 September 2013 at the Wayback Machine (iranicaonline.org)
^ Philip G. Kreyenbroek, "On the Kurdish Language", a chapter in the book The Kurds: A Contemporary Overview.
^ Meri, Josef W. Medieval Islamic Civilization: A-K, index. p444
^ Edmonds, Cecil. Kurds, Turks, and Arabs: politics, travel, and research in north-eastern Iraq, 1919–1925. Oxford University Press, 1957.
^ J. N. Postgate, Languages of Iraq, ancient and modern, British School of Archaeology in Iraq, [Iraq]: British School of Archaeology in Iraq, 2007, p. 138.
^ "The Ethnic Identity of the Kurds in Turkey" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 October 2015. Retrieved 15 October 2015.
^ Abd al-Jabbar, Falih. Ayatollahs, sufis and ideologues: state, religion and social movements in Iraq. University of Virginia 2008.
^ Sykes, Mark. The Caliphs' last heritage: a short history of the Turkish Empire
^ O'Shea, Maria. Trapped between the map and reality: geography and perceptions of Kurdistan. ISBN 0-415-94766-9.
^ Library Information and Research Service. The Middle East, abstracts and index
^ Meiselas, Susan. Kurdistan: in the shadow of history. Random House, 1997.
^ Opengin, Ergin; Haig, Geoffrey. "Kurdish: a critical research overview". Academia.edu.
^ Leezenberg, M. [in Dutch] (15 June 2016). Soviet Kurdology and Kurdish Orientalism. p. 10. Archived from the original on 27 April 2018. Retrieved 24 November 2017.
^ Ibn-Waḥšīya, Aḥmad Ibn-ʿAlī (1806). Ancient Alphabets and Hieroglyphic Characters Explained: With an Account of the Egyptian Priests, Their Classes, Initiation, and Sacrifices. Translated by Joseph von Hammer-Purgstall. Bulmer. p. 53. Retrieved 28 March 2013.
^ John S. Guest, The Yezidis: A Study in Survival, Routledge Publishers, 1987, ISBN 0-7103-0115-4, ISBN 978-0-7103-0115-4, 299 pp. (see pages 18, 19, 32)
^ Bozarslan, Hamit; Gunes, Cengiz; Yadirgi, Veli, eds. (2021). The Cambridge History of the Kurds. Cambridge University Press. p. 613. ISBN 978-1-108-47335-4.
^ Ernest R. McCarus, Kurdish Language Studies, The Middle East Journal, Published by Middle East Institute, Washington, 1960, p.325
^ Kurdistan and Its Christians Archived 10 February 2009 at the Wayback Machine, Mirella Galetti, World Congress of Kurdish Studies, 6–9 September 2006
^ Ross, Michael. The Volunteer (chapter: The Road to Ankara)
^ Repression of Kurds in Syria is widespread Archived 15 October 2007 at the Wayback Machine, Amnesty International Report, March 2005.
^ "After 52-year ban, Syrian Kurds now taught Kurdish in schools". 6 November 2015. Archived from the original on 10 May 2016.
^ "Special Focus Cases: Leyla Zana, Prisoner of Conscience". Amnestyusa.org. Archived from the original on 10 May 2005. Retrieved 2 December 2011.
^ "Kurdish performers banned, Appeal from International PEN". Freemuse.org. Archived from the original on 13 January 2012. Retrieved 2 December 2011.
^ Turkey to get Kurdish television Archived 13 May 2006 at the Wayback Machine
^ "Kurdish TV starts broadcasting in Turkey". Kurdmedia.com. Archived from the original on 12 January 2012. Retrieved 2 December 2011.
^ "TRT HABER - Özel Kürtçe Kanala Yeşil Işık". Trt.net.tr. 28 November 2011. Archived from the original on 18 January 2012. Retrieved 2 December 2011.
^ "On trial for speaking Kurdish". ANF-Firatnews. 11 May 2011. Archived from the original on 15 June 2013. Retrieved 12 June 2013.
^ Karakaş, Saniye (March 2004). "Submission to the Sub-Commission on Promotion and Protection of Human Rights: Working Group of Minorities; Tenth Session, Agenda Item 3 (a)". United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Archived from the original (MS Word) on 28 June 2007. Retrieved 7 November 2006. Kurds have been officially allowed since September 2003 to take Kurdish names, but cannot use the letters x, w, or q, which are common in Kurdish but do not exist in Turkey's version of the Latin alphabet. [...] Those letters, however, are used in Turkey in the names of companies, TV and radio channels, and trademarks. For example Turkish Army has company under the name of AXA OYAK and there is SHOW TV television channel in Turkey.
^ Mark Liberman (24 October 2013). "Turkey legalizes the letters Q, W, and X. Yay Alphabet!". Slate. Retrieved 25 October 2013.
^ "Turkey to allow Kurdish lessons in schools". Aljazeera. 12 June 2012. Archived from the original on 13 March 2013. Retrieved 12 June 2013.
^ The Kurdish Language and Literature Archived 13 October 2008 at the Wayback Machine, by Joyce Blau, professor of Kurdish language and civilization at the National Institute of Oriental Language and Civilization of the University of Paris (INALCO)
^ The language policy of Iran from State policy on the Kurdish language: the politics of status planning Archived 9 June 2009 at the Wayback Machine
by Amir Hassanpour, University of Toronto
^ "Neighboring Kurds Travel to Study in Iraq". Npr.org. 9 March 2005. Archived from the original on 26 January 2012. Retrieved 2 December 2011.
^ ". Number of resident population by selected nationality, mother tongue in 2009" (PDF). p. 53. Archived from the original (PDF) on 10 July 2012. Retrieved 9 April 2015.
^ "Table 4.1.1 Population by individual ethnic groups" (PDF). Government of Kazakhstan. stat.kz. p. 21. Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 February 2012. Retrieved 9 July 2012.
External links
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Kurdish language.
 Kurmanji Kurdish edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
 Sorani Kurdish edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Southern Kurdish test of Wikipedia at Wikimedia Incubator
Laki test of Wikipedia at Wikimedia Incubator
Wikivoyage has phrasebook for Kurdish.
Wîkîferheng Archived 31 October 2015 at the Wayback Machine (Kurdish Wiktionary)
VejinBooks, collection of Kurdish literary and historical texts
Vejin Dictionaries, collection of Kurdish dictionaries (written in Arabic script)
The Kurdish Academy of Language (unofficial)
Kurdînûs, a tool for writing in Kurdish and to convert texts from Arabic script to Latin script and vice versa Archived 30 November 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Egerîn, Kurdish (Kurmanji) search engine
inKurdish: English–Kurdish Translation
Dictio: English–Kurdish (Sorani) Dictionary
The Kurdish Institute of Paris: Language and Literature
Kurdish Language and Linguistics, at Encyclopedia Iranica (article written by Ludwig Paul)
Reference Grammar with Selected Readings both for Sorani and Kurmanji, written by W. M. Thackston (Harvard University)
History of Kurdish Written Literature, at Encyclopedia Iranica (article written by Philip G. Kryeenbroek)
Kurdish Language Initiative of Seywan Institute
Kurdish Institute of Istanbul
KAL: The Kurdish Academy of Language
Kurdish languages at Curlie
Grammar of a Less Familiar Language (MIT OpenCourseWare)
Southern Kurdish phonetic
Gorani Influence on Central Kurdish Archived 12 July 2019 at the Wayback Machine
"Writing Kurdish Alphabetics in Java Programming Language". IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, Vol. 7, No. 1, 2016.
Links to related articles
vteKurdish languages
Alphabets
Grammar
Literature
Languages
Kurmanji (Northern)
Sorani (Central)
Xwarin (Southern)
Laki
Related languages
Gorani
Zaza
vteIranian languagesHistory
Proto-Iranian
Old Iranian
Middle Iranian
New Iranian
EasternPamir
Bartangi
Ishkashimi
Khufi
Munji
Roshani
Sanglechi
Sarikoli
Shughni
Vanji
Wakhi
Yazghulami
Yidgha
Others
Avestan
Bactrian
Khwarezmian
Parachi
Pashto
Central
Northern
Southern
Wanetsi
Ormuri
Scythian
Alanian
Ossetian
Digor
Iron
Jassic
Saka
Sogdian
Yaghnobi
WesternNorth
Ashtiani
Balochi
Daylami
Fars
Gilaki
Gorani
Kurdish
Kurmanji
Sorani
Xwarin
Kordali
Laki
Mazanderani
Tabaroid
Median
Old Azeri
Parthian
Semnani
Lasgerdi
Sangsari
Sorkhei
Taleshi
Tati
Tatoid
Zaza
Zoroastrian Dari
South
Achomi
Bashkardi
Garmsiri
Kuhmareyi
Kumzari
Luri
Bakhtiari
Persian
Caucasian Tat
Dari
Hazaragi
Tajik
Old Persian
Middle Persian
Italics indicate extinct or historical languages.Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
vte Languages of IraqOfficial languages
Standard Arabic
Mesopotamian Arabic (Main)
Kurdish
Sorani (Main)
Kurmanji
Official minority languages
Neo-Aramaic
Assyrian Neo-Aramaic
Armenian
Turkish
Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman dialects
Other minority languages
Gorani (Hawrami)
Southern Kurdish (Xwarin)
Persian
Hebrew
Shabaki
Sign languages
Iraqi Sign Language
Kurdish Sign Language
vte Languages of IranOfficial languages
Persian
Regional languages
Azerbaijani
Achomi
Kurdish
Kurmanji
Sorani
Xwarin
Laki
Gorani
Luri
Gilaki
Mazanderani
Arabic
Balochi
Talysh
Tati
Qashqai
Turkmen
Semnani
Khorasani Turkic
Minority languages
Armenian
Assyrian
Circassian
Domari
Georgian
Hebrew
Jadgali
Zargari Romani
Khalaj
Sign languages
Persian Sign Language
Qahveh Khaneh Sign Language
vteLanguages of SyriaOfficial language
Standard Arabic
Minority languages
Armenian
Circassian languages (Kabardian)
Chechen
Domari
Greek
Kurdish
Kurmanji
Turkish
Syrian Turkmen/Turkoman dialects
Aramaic
Suret (Assyrian & Chaldean)
Turoyo
Western Neo-Aramaic
Varieties of Arabic
Shawi
Levantine
Aleppine
Damascene
Mesopotamian
Najdi
Sign languages
Levantine Arabic Sign Language
Immigrant languages
English
French
Punjabi
Spanish
German
Italian
Hindi
Hebrew
Arabic
Chinese
Portuguese
Japanese
Russian
Danish
Dutch
vte Languages of TurkeyOfficial language
Turkish
Minority languages
Arabic
Armenian
Bulgarian
Domari
Georgian
Greek
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Laz
Zaza(ki)
Sign languages
Turkish Sign Language
Mardin Sign Language
Central Taurus Sign Language
Whistle languages
Turkish bird language
 Turkey portal
 Category
vteLanguages of ArmeniaOfficial language
Armenian
Eastern Armenian
Minority languages
Assyrian
Greek
Kurmanji
Lomavren
Russian
Western Armenian
Sign languages
Armenian Sign Language
Armenian Women's Sign Language
vteLanguages of the CaucasusCaucasian(areal)South(Kartvelian)
Karto-Zan
Georgian
Judaeo-Georgian
Old Georgian
Zan
Laz
Mingrelian
Svan
Northeast(Caspian)Avar–Andic
Andic
Andi
Akhvakh
Bagvalal–Tindi
Botlikh–Godoberi
Chamalal
Karata
Avar
Dargin
Chirag
Dargwa
Itsari
Kaitag
Kubachi
Lezgic
Archi
Samur
Eastern
Aghul
Lezgian
Tabasaran
Udi
Caucasian Albanian
Southern
Budukh
Kryts
Western
Rutul
Tsakhur
Nakh
Bats
Vainakh
Arshtin
Chechen
Ingush
Tsezic (Didoic)
Bezhta–Hunzib–Khwarshi
Hinukh–Tsez
Others
Khinalug
Lak
Northwest(Pontic)
Abazgi
Abaza
Abkhaz
Circassian
Adyghe
Kabardian
Ubykh
Indo-EuropeanIranian
Kurdish
Kurmanji
Ossetian
Persian
Talysh
Tat
Judeo-Tat
Slavic
Russian
Ukrainian
Others
Armenian
Eastern
Western
German
Pontic Greek
TurkicKipchak
Karachay-Balkar
Kumyk
Nogai
Urum
Oghuz
Azerbaijani
Turkish
Turkmen
Others
Kalmyk Oirat
Northeastern Neo-Aramaic
Assyrian
Bohtan
Shirvani Arabic
Italics indicate extinct languagesLanguages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
See also
Languages of Armenia
Languages of Azerbaijan
Languages of Georgia
Languages of Russia
vte Iraq topicsHistoryChronology
Ubaid period
Hassuna culture
Halaf culture
Halaf-Ubaid Transitional period
Samarra culture
Uruk period
Jemdet Nasr period
Sumer
Subartu
Akkadian Empire
Gutian dynasty
Neo-Sumerian Empire
Isin-Larsa period
First Babylonian Empire
Old Assyrian Period
Middle Assyrian Empire
Kassite dynasty of the Babylonian Empire
Simurrum culture
Babylonia
Assyria
Neo-Assyrian Empire
Neo-Babylonian Empire
Fall of Babylon
Achaemenid Assyria
Seleucid Babylonia
Parthian Babylonia
Sassanid Asorestan
638–1958
Muslim conquest of Mesopotamia
Umayyad Caliphate
Abbasid Caliphate
Buyid dynasty
Qara Qoyunlu
Aq Qoyunlu
Safavids
Ottoman Iraq (incl. Mamluk dynasty)
Mandate for Mesopotamia
Mandatory Iraq
Kingdom of Iraq
Kings
Arab Federation
Republic
1958–1968
1968–2003
2003–2011
2011–present
Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Iraq Region (National Command)
Saddam Hussein
Iraqi–Kurdish conflict
1974–1975 Shatt al-Arab clashes
1977 Shia uprising in Iraq
1979–1980 Shia uprising in Iraq
Weapons of mass destruction
Iran–Iraq War
Operation Opera
Invasion of Kuwait
Gulf War
1991 uprisings
Sanctions
Iraq War
U.S. invasion
Iraqi insurgency
U.S. troop withdrawal
Insurgency (2011–2013)
War (2014–2017)
Mosul liberation
Insurgency
2019–2021 protests
2021–2022 Iraqi political crisis
Geography
Faw peninsula
Upper Mesopotamia
Lower Mesopotamia
Borders
Euphrates river
Hamrin Mountains
Iraqi Kurdistan
Lakes
Islands
Mesopotamia
Mesopotamian Marshes
Persian Gulf
Places
Shatt al-Arab
Syrian Desert
Tigris river
Umm Qasr
Zagros Mountains
Wildlife
Sinjar Mountains
Politics
Administrative divisions
Constitution
Council of Representatives (legislative)
Democracy
Elections
Foreign aid
Foreign relations
Government
Council of Ministers
Presidency Council
President
List
Prime Minister
List
Human rights
in pre-Saddam Iraq
in Saddam Hussein's Iraq
in post-invasion Iraq
in ISIL-controlled territory
LGBT
Freedom of religion
Women
Law
Military
Police
Political parties
Judiciary
Wars and conflicts
Economy
Banks
Central Bank
Companies
Corruption
Dinar (currency)
Infrastructure
Foregin Investment
Oil Industry
Oil reserves
Reconstruction
Stock Exchange
Telecommunications
Transportation
Airlines
Railways
Tourism
SocietyDemographics
Iraqis
Languages
Mesopotamian Arabic
Aramaic
Kurdish
Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman dialects
Persian
Minorities
Armenians
Assyrians
Circassians
Kurds
Mandaeans
Marsh Arabs
Persians
Solluba
Iraqi Turkmen/Turkoman
Jews
Religion
Islam
Christianity
Mandaeism
Yazidis
Irreligion
General
Art
Cinema
Cuisine
Culture
Literature
Education
Health
Media
Television
Music
Smoking
Sports
Squatting
Public holidays
Mesopotamian spring festival (Akitu)
Mandaean New Year
 Category
 Portal
 WikiProject
 Commons
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kurdish_languages&oldid=1169329601"
Categories: Kurdish languageLanguages of ArmeniaLanguages of AzerbaijanLanguages of TurkeyLanguages of IranLanguages of IraqLanguages of IsraelLanguages of LebanonLanguages of SyriaSubject–object–verb languagesIranian languagesLanguages of KurdistanHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 25CS1 uses Russian-language script (ru)CS1 Russian-language sources (ru)CS1 Armenian-language sources (hy)Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: location missing publisherArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataWikipedia extended-confirmed-protected pagesUse dmy dates from March 2020Articles containing Kurdish-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeISO language articles citing sources other than EthnologueArticles containing Sorani Kurdish-language textWikipedia articles needing page number citations from November 2022Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from December 2014Commons category link is on WikidataArticles with Curlie linksArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles citing Nationalencyklopedin
 This page was last edited on 8 August 2023, at 12:19 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width