Wikivoyage:Requested articles – Travel guide at Wikivoyage
Wikivoyage:Requested articles
From Wikivoyage
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This is a list of articles that do not yet exist on Wikivoyage. Please add links here, and delete those that have a proper article that is not just a link or a blank template.
Or - why not start the article yourself?
Requests should meet the What is an article? policy. For example, a location should normally have somewhere to eat, somewhere to sleep and at least one thing to see or do to deserve an article. A travel topic or itinerary must be within the scope of Wikivoyage.
See also:
Wikivoyage:World cities lists capitals and other cities with a population of over 100,000. Some of them do not have an article on Wikivoyage.
Wikivoyage:Requests for phrasebooks
Special:WantedPages lists the most common red links; some but not all are valid article ideas.
Contents
1 Places
1.1 Africa
1.1.1 Ghana
1.1.2 Morocco
1.1.3 Sudan
1.2 Americas
1.2.1 Canada
1.2.2 United States of America
1.2.3 South America
1.3 Asia
1.4 Oceania
1.5 European
1.5.1 Czech Republic
1.5.2 France
1.5.3 Ireland
1.5.4 Poland
2 Travel topics
2.1 Reasons to travel
2.2 Travel Considerations for specfic groups
2.3 Understand
2.4 Prepare
2.5 Get in
2.5.1 By plane
2.6 Get around
2.7 See
2.7.1 Historical travel
2.7.2 Fiction tourism
2.8 Do
2.9 Learn
2.10 Work
2.11 Buy
2.12 Eat/Drink
2.13 Sleep
2.14 Cope
2.15 Connect
2.16 Stay healthy
2.17 Stay safe
2.18 Respect
3 Itineraries
3.1 Africa
3.2 Asia
3.3 Europe
3.4 North America
3.5 Oceania
3.6 South America
3.7 Central America
3.8 Intercontinental
4 Phrasebooks
5 Project pages
Places[edit]
Africa[edit]
Ghana[edit]
Mount Afadjato (w:Mount Afadja)
Lake Bosumtwi (w:Lake Bosumtwi)
Kakum walkway
Mount Cameroon — info on routes & multi-day hikes to the summit. (w:Mount Cameroon)
Morocco[edit]
Khouribga - phosphate mining town also with a French colonial settlement history (w:Khouribga)
Sudan[edit]
Kerma, one of the largest and most ancient archeological sites in ancient Nubia. (w:Kerma)
Americas[edit]
Canada[edit]
Burin Peninsula (Fortune, Newfoundland as crossing point to St. Pierre and Miquelon)
I might be able to take on this project in the near future. I took a trip there a few years ago and have a great deal of pictures, insight, etc. to show for it. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 15:30, 12 April 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Joliette has a cathedral and an art gallery which should be listed somewhere
Matagami is a tiny place (w:Matagami) with a couple of hotels, but one of the few waypoints on the road to James Bay
Sherbrooke (Nova Scotia) - primarily notable for a pioneer village living museum, but is a small place with few other amenities (currently redirects to Eastern Shore (Nova Scotia). Mahone Bay, a tiny seaport, is also worth a visit.
A few individual towns on the main itinerary articles (such as the Trans-Canada Highway or Windsor-Quebec corridor) still redlink.
Many of the national historic sites like York Factory redlink
Sandy Cove, a redirect of The Eastport Peninsula. (w:Sandy Cove, Newfoundland and Labrador) as a reference.
United States of America[edit]
Canastota. Hosts the International Boxing Hall of Fame and looks like it merits an article. See w:Canastota.
Charlotte (Vermont): Based on the number of Charlotte listings in the Chittenden County article, there would be plenty for an article for this town.
Fishlake National Forest, in Utah – includes Pando, the heaviest and one of the oldest living organisms in the world
And Malheur National Forest in Oregon, home to the "humongous fungus" that's also a candidate for largest living organism
Kiryas Joel, New York (w:Kiryas Joel, New York)
Might not be a good candidate for its own article per wiaa. It's a tiny town without anything to really see or do, and nowhere to sleep. Also, the Hasidic community there is not especially welcoming of outsiders. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 18:01, 27 May 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
According to Wikipedia, it has a population of more than 24,000 now. Seems, though, that in the U.S. there's nowhere else like it, so maybe it would be worth an article. But I have no intention to create it myself, since outside of what I see on Wikipedia I have no knowledge of the place. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk | contributions) 01:31, 4 February 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Bolivar Peninsula —  including Port Bolivar, and Crystal Beach
Done, but I'm sure it could use some edits and more cleanup. Mrkstvns (talk) 22:17, 31 August 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
many trails in the National Trails System
Dillingham, Alaska - where Sarah Palin and her husband work on their fishing business. (w:Dillingham, Alaska)
Lakewood Ranch_(Florida) (w:Lakewood Ranch, Florida) is an up and coming suburban community (planned development) in the outskirts of Bradenton, Florida.
This appears to be more suburbia – is there anything of interest to travellers here? --SHB2000 (talk | contribs | meta) 23:46, 29 August 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Lakewood_(Washington) (w:Lakewood, Washington) an established city serving as a suburb of Tacoma, Washington and Joint Base Lewis-McCord.
South America[edit]
Isla Salas y Gómez / Isla Sala y Gómez (w:Isla Salas y Gomez)
This island appears to be uninhabited and unlikely to ever become a usable article. I've created a redirect to Easter Island, where this island is administered from, but any objections to removing this outright? --SHB2000 (talk | contribs | meta) 00:16, 31 December 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Salvation's Islands/Îles du Salut: islands off the coast of French Guiana, formerly a penal colony and now a tourist destination
Asia[edit]
Xe Bang Fai Cave in Khammouane/Khammuan (redirect), Central Laos
Norther Tsenkher Cave, Hovd (province), Mongolia
Biyangdo (Biyang Island, off Jeju). Might or might not merit its own article but should be mentioned. w:Biyando is a stub, but you can see beautiful scenery in this video, though it focuses on the lives of two dogs and their owner. Ikan Kekek (talk) 10:44, 3 January 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Oceania[edit]
Kuk Swamp archeological and UNESCO World Heritage site in Papua New Guinea providing evidence of agriculture 9000 years ago. Only a one-line listing in the broad highlands region article at the moment.
This one's a hard one. The site is quite isolated, so much that even Commons or Flickr do not have a single photo of this site. There's just little info on this. --SHB2000 (talk | contribs | meta.wikimedia) 03:39, 20 January 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Cape York Peninsula (currently a redirect to Far North Queensland) – this is currently a very remote part of Queensland that has many POIs north of Weipa, but distances are long and roads are only accessible outside the wet season.
Garig Gunak Barlu National Park – similar situation as above (not part of Arnhem Land)
European[edit]
Czech Republic[edit]
Moravian Wallachia
I'm unfamiliar with _Moravian_ Wallachia, but I presume that like the Romanian region of Wallachia, it would be spelled in English with a "W". Ikan Kekek (talk) 15:41, 22 December 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
As quoted by Ikan Kekek it is Moravian Wallachia not Moravian Vallachia .SO i am changing V to W. It is a mountain region in Czech Republic. Sulthan90 (talk) 11:14, 26 March 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
How does this relate to the Moravian Church, Christianity#Hussites? Pashley (talk) 16:13, 21 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
France[edit]
Coulommiers, town known for a particular variety of Brie cheese
Langres is a city in the Haute-Savoie region, which is, in a nutshell, a medieval city as uninterrupted by time as can be (aside inevitable inventions such as electricity and cars). Commons has some, though not many pictures of the city.
Ireland[edit]
 Spike Island, Europe's greatest attraction at the 2017 World Travel Awards in East Cork, County Cork
- this harbour islet is described as "See" in Cobh, as is Haulbowline island, which seems enough. Grahamsands (talk) 20:19, 30 December 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Poland[edit]
Lądek-Zdrój - lots of beautiful photos in Commons; look at the category for the town. Coverage of Poland is really deficient in general on this site. There are numerous important destinations that have no article, and others, like Kłodzko, which based on what's on Commons, deserve significantly longer and more detailed articles with more images.
Travel topics[edit]
Reasons to travel[edit]
Convention planning overlaps business travel to a certain extent, but adds complexity as these are often large events.
Trade shows, Conferences and Conventions , three related reasons for travel that Wikivoyage currently has no overall article on.
Board Game Tourism - attending the big Board Game Conventions, visiting the big publishers and so on. Possibly also buying games which are only available locally.
We have Chess, Go and Xiangqi. Reenactment and LARP is somewhat related. Pashley (talk) 03:07, 18 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
European capital of culture on the one hand "event travel" like the Olympics or World Cup on the other hand the EU explicitly requires long term effects, so even visiting a former capital of culture can lead to related discoveries
Toplessness (common destinations for women who practice female toplessness) - In some parts of the world, many women have to deal with the fact that although female toplessness is commonly practiced in public places like beaches, swimming pools or even parks, often there is a lack of information in regards to the official status of some of these places, meaning that in many cases some women practice topless sunbathing (de facto) without really knowing if this act is allowed or even tolerated (de jure) in a determined region. Indeed, most of these women feel obliged to practice toplessness in a discreet manner to avoid confusion and unwanted sights. Others decide to travel for long distances to reach a more isolated place (such as a remote beach) where topless sunbathing can be done (at least de facto) without so much worries. Not to mention that in some occasions a few women have had problems with the police and other authorities mainly because these women don't know the official status of these places, as I said above. With all of this in mind, here I bring a proposition of an article whose focus should be on what are the areas around the world where female toplessness is more commonly practiced and what's the status (if known, de jure or at least de facto) of these areas, as well as the best destinations for women who take out the top (and don't want to worry a lot). Thanks in advance.
I think an article telling about laws in every jurisdiction will quickly get unwieldy, and additionally, practices vary in many jurisdictions. I also don't know whether toplessness is the thing. Can you have just a bikini at the beach? In many places you are supposed to have at least a T-shirt over your bath suit, or even to wear a burqini (hmm, is there any beach where those are the common swimwear?). I think the practises are better handled in Cope or in a paragraph on beaches in Do for countries or regions known as beach destinations (and in beach listings where practises vary from one beach to the other). Or, if people do choose destination based on the possibility to sunbath topless without issues, that aspect could have a section in Beaches (in addition to the less focused discussion in the country and region articles). –LPfi (talk) 15:38, 21 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Working in the European Union
Is this for EU/EEA citizens or people from elsewhere? The issues are very different. For EU citizens you don't need work permits, but you may need recognised certification, which isn't standardised in all sectors, and you should consider effects on social security, taxes etc. People from elsewhere need a country-specific work permit and I don't know how much general stuff there is to told. –LPfi (talk) 15:42, 21 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Thanksgiving
Travel Considerations for specfic groups[edit]
Freelance journalism isn't covered, although we have working abroad and travel writing.
Youth travel for travellers at age 15-26. When can youth discounts be expected? When is age limit an issue? (Many 20-year old Europeans are surprised that they cannot drink in the United States)
I like the idea of having something specific like this given that the two preexisting articles don't necessarily apply to all minor travel situations. I'd be happy to use my own experiences as well :) --MewMewMadness (talk) 17:05, 15 December 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
We have Working holiday and Gap year travel.
Erasmus program / Studying in the European Union
Couple travel - not necessarily honeymoon travel
Adults-only travel destinations are a broad category which may need to be broken into smaller pieces. This might be "childfree" B&B's for those looking for peace and quiet, "couples-only resorts" for those looking to be alone together, or "topless"/"clothing optional"/"nude" activities which aren't appropriate for children (we already have "family-friendly" nudism at Naturism). There are also age restrictions (or restrictions against single people) with swingers travel, swingers cruises, swingers resorts and gender restrictions on venues like the "gay campground" or "lesbian resort" (we have LGBT travel, but it has no #Sleep section).
Travel as a non-binary individual-  We already have LGBT Travel, but coverage of travel issues, non-binary individuals encounter could be expanded. Ideally it should include advice on places that non-binary indviduals may want to avoid (For example, In some destinations, there are bars and clubs that may seem neutral to non-binary individuals, but where those indviduals might get mistaken for potential sex partners for example.)
Understand[edit]
Talk — see Wikivoyage:Requests for phrasebooks
Prepare[edit]
Trusted traveller programmes — We have a few US-centric articles about Global Entry, NEXUS and the like but no broad, generic main topic and nothing on other countries (like the UK).
Footwear/shoes, currently a subsection of clothing
Computers/Portable computers; laptop computers and tablets. How to choose a useful model, pack them safely, get them through airport security, prevent theft etc
We have some discussion in Digital nomad and a little in Border crossing. Those could be expanded a bit. If you are going to write more than what fits nicely, perhaps the title could be Bringing a laptop. I think the part on choosing model should be written very generally, to still be useful after five to ten years. –LPfi (talk) 15:51, 21 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Created by ‎Yvwv, expansion needed as of now. –LPfi (talk) 20:31, 21 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Package tours provided by travel agencies, covering many destinations; in contrast to guided tours which cover one destination during one day
Watches: functional watches, smartwatches, diving watches, issues with buying pirate watches, etc
Packing for a camping trip - https://www.rei.com/learn/expert-advice/family-camping-checklist.html
We have Packing for a week of hiking, not sure whether these should be combined in one article. —Granger (talk · contribs) 06:24, 3 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I don't think so. You need different things and have different weight and space limitations. But I wonder, camping trips differ significantly among themselves, couldn't this be included as a section in Car camping and Camping (with suitable links). Wilderness backpacking and Hiking in the Nordic countries also have some advice on gear. Coordinating advice between the different lists can be done when they start to be thought out. We don't need a separate ad hoc list article. –LPfi (talk) 11:16, 3 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Get in[edit]
Vehicle delivery — Various schemes used by snowbirds to transport vehicles cross-country, from w:Auto Train to auto transporters and drive-away companies (some hire chauffeurs to drive the vehicle [including RV's, lorries and buses], some match vehicles to other travellers heading the same way, some haul motorcars and large-truck cabs using tractor-trailer rigs or car carriers). [1][2] is an overview.
Marinas, boat rental, houseboats — we have a Marina article but it's a useless skeleton about some town in California. We have cruising on small craft but not sailing per se.
The cruise ship article focuses on ocean cruising and ships. A parallel article (to be developed) would focus on river boat and barge canal cruising. River boats and barges offer more in-depth, close-up looks at many countries in their interiors.
Entering the United States as the section in United States is getting bloated
By plane[edit]
Charter flights are mentioned briefly in Transport#By plane, with little actual information; general aviation now has an article. Other forms of charter transportion (such as chartering boats or buses) have no more than a brief mention in passing; package tours redlinks.
Flying to Europe - many people travel to Europe for work and travel.
Flying in Europe - This article should not be part of the Europe page because many Europeans travel for work and vacation to the Mediterranean during the summer months. Currently a redirect.
Flying between Europe and the United States - There are many flights between Europe and the United States for travel and business.
Flying Budget in the United States/Flying Budget in North America - most notably, Southwest.
- Why should we split up Flying in the United States? Hobbitschuster (talk) 11:26, 10 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Flying Budget in Europe - most notably, easyJet and Ryanair.
- there previously was a series on low cost airlines which was deemed so bad it only narrowly escaped outright deletion and was instead redirected to air travel on a budget Hobbitschuster (talk) 11:25, 10 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Flying to Oceania - We have one for Africa, why can't we have one for Oceania?
Jorge Chávez International Airport - the main airport serving Lima, the capital of Peru. It is the third busiest airport in South America in 2019.
Cancún International Airport - is the second busiest airport in Mexico after Mexico City's Benito Juarez Airport serving the famous resort city on the Yucatan Peninsula. International flights from Europe, Russia, South America and Central America would only land here and/or Mexico City. It is the only one with more than two terminals in Mexico.
Daniel K. Inouye International Airport in Honolulu – a hub that's a popular transit point for passengers flying between North America and Oceania/Asia
Guadalajara International Airport - w:Miguel_Hidalgo_y_Costilla_Guadalajara_International_Airport is the fourth busiest airport in Mexico after Mexico City's Benito Juarez Airport serving the second largest city in Mexico. International flights from Central America (via Copa Airlines) as well as from multiple cities in U.S. and Canada (via Volaris Airlines, American, Alaska, United, Air Canada, Viva Aerobus, Aeromexico). This airport serves as a hub for Volaris.
El Dorado International Airport - the main airport serving Bogota, the capital of Colombia. It is the second busiest airport in South America in 2019. It is a hub for Avianca.
Brussels Airport - the main airport serving Brussels, the capital of Belgium. It is a hub for Brussels Airlines. Currently a redirect
Cairo International Airport - the main airport serving Cairo, the capital of Egypt. It is a hub for EgyptAir. It is the busiest airport in Africa in 2020 ([3]). Cairo is also the sixth-largest city in the world. ([4])
Bole International Airport - main airport of Addis Ababa, the main hub for Ethiopian Airlines, and one of the most important hubs of Africa
Jomo Kenyatta International Airport - main airport of Nairobi, the main hub for Kenya Airways, and one of the most important hubs of Africa
Get around[edit]
Bus travel in Mexico - probably the best and most extensive bus network in the world. spinning this of from the main Mexico#By bus_2 article would be a good idea imho. That way we can go into more detail while only leaving a brief overview in the main article
Canada without a car, similar to United States without a car
Another approach would be to include information about Canada and change the name of the article to "North America without a car" or, to be more specific and avoid confusion about whether to include Mexico, "The U.S. and Canada without a car". Ikan Kekek (talk) 11:27, 2 October 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I like the idea, but would prefer whether our "experiment" USA "works" - imho it's on a good path, but not quite "there" yet... Hobbitschuster (talk) 18:18, 3 November 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I don't think we should do "North America without a car". "United States without a car" covers enough different regions, let alone one article for "getting around without a car" that stretches from Panama to the Yukon. IMO "Canada without a car" should be a separate article. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk | contributions) 01:25, 26 October 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Tour boats are missing, leaving a huge gap between cruise ships and boating/cruising on small craft. An outline on ferries was started, but it needs some love.
River boat and barge canal cruising are suggested above in Get in and Dinner cruises in Eat/drink. I think Tour boats could cover most of these. –LPfi (talk) 09:14, 11 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Overland travel in Africa — Africa brings a host of different troubles & issues when compared to overland travel just about anywhere else in the world. Such a page should include issues with fuel, vehicles (2WD vs 4x4 & also limited spare parts/service available for various brands), road conditions, road-side camping, and cover the many border issues present along the continent. This page should also cover some of the common routes in the various regions, but especially in regions difficult to traverse or where there are only a couple viable routes—such as the Sahara, east-west travel between coastal Libya and Zambia (basically there are no routes, but for the truly adventurous N'Djamena-Abeche-Khartoum or Yaounde-Bangui-Kampala are possible), and trans-continental travel down the west coast (there's really only one viable route between Gabon & Angola). A Cycling the Western Sahara itinerary now exists.
Trans-Sahara routes — Traveling across the Sahara is no doubt difficult and (often) dangerous. Having one page to cover all the different routes along with common modes of transport, border restrictions, and safety concerns would be very helpful in persons planning a grand overland trip across Africa and be much easier for overlanders than having to sift through info on (or which should be in) the pages of North Africa & Sahel countries. Could either be a page unto itself, or a section of the proposed Overland travel in Africa page
Cruising the Southern Ocean — While much of the content of this guide should be included in the "Get in" section of Antarctica, it would be nice to have a page written from the perspective of cruising to Antarctica, South Georgia Island, and even the French Southern and Antarctic Territories. Topics to include: types of cruises (small or large vessel & associated pros/cons), costs, packing list, various procedures/regulations (cleaning to prevent contamination, zodiac boat rides), typical activities (wildlife viewing, kayaking, station visits, helicopter flights), ships, overview of places visited (Antarctic peninsula, Ross Sea, South Georgia Is., Falkland Islands, Tierra del Fuego), and routes (from Ushuaia, Punta Arenas, or Australia/New Zealand).
Panama Canal by boat redlinks. Like the Suez Canal (which exists as Suez Route) it should have an article.
To make such article interesting would be to include information of places along canal (viewing spots, national parks, etc) that are accessible by road(s) which run parallel to the canal (mainly on the east side) between Panama City and Colon. There are also secondary roads on the west side (connecting Colon to Cuipo via Gatun) that offer better views of the Gatun Lake. There's also a once daily train that connects Panama Albrook Station to Colon too.
If the article is on Panama canal by boat I don't see why roadside attractions are essential. Of course, there may be more people travelling along the roads than along the canal. The focus could be on either or both. The article Suez Route is a stub, not a good model. –LPfi (talk) 08:14, 11 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Intercity buses in Britain - the network is a lot older than the French or German ones.
Motorcycle taxi and Rickshaw redirect to a brief description in taxicabs; Tuk-tuk / Auto rickshaw and tricycle taxi redlink.
Canals currently redirect to waterways:
Inland waterways in the United Kingdom, currently a stub, these are rather different from their European counterparts (and a lot smaller in some instances!). If there's a really interested party, specific waterways are probably best done as itineraries, (especially longer ones like the River Thames or Grand Union Canal (England) ) ShakespeareFan00 (talk) 11:02, 28 June 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
European inland waterways. There is a section "Rivers and Canals of Europe" in Waterways, but I think a proper article should have a structure hard to shoehorn into that section. The scope would be the waterways covered by the CEVNI regulations, with a short mention of the Kiel Canal and other special cases. This is an extensive waterway system. The regulations are uniform enough and the interconnections many enough that handling them in one article would be useful. The article would be linked from individual waterway itineraries.
Rail travel in Israel given the political commitment to expanding the network and strong passenger growth as well as the pervasiveness of sherut, Egged and hitchhiking in other guides, we could get a USP by improving our coverage there as well as filling a rather widening gap in coverage. Hobbitschuster (talk) 21:24, 5 March 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Definitely an article that would help our efforts to make railroads great again. So yes, Hobbitschuster, is there anyone on Wikivoyage who at least has a decent knowledge of Israel's rail network?  Selfie City (talk) 22:15, 12 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Yachting on the Mediterranean / Boating on the Mediterranean (compare Boating on the Baltic Sea)
We currently have Ferries in the Mediterranean, which was nominated for vfd in 2018 and was kept. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk | contributions) 21:49, 29 October 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Ferries in the Caribbean — getting around other than by plane, huge cruise ship, or your own boat.
Is there enough there there? Hobbitschuster (talk) 20:37, 21 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Ferry lines are (to my understanding) considerably more scarce than for instance in Europe or the archipelagoes of Southeast Asia, but as some exist, I'd be surprised if there aren't a few more of them. And because they're so scarce it could be useful for independent travelers planning an island-hopping voyage to have an overview of where they can find such ferries. Of course, if there are extremely few of them, it's probably best to collect them in Caribbean#By_boat_2 and make this a redirect. ϒpsilon (talk) 21:17, 21 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Quite a lot, it seems, if this site is correct and up to date. Ypsilon (talk) 18:06, 4 May 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Electric and hybrid cars - how regulation and charging opportunities differ between countries
car free places in line with w:list of car-free places
Bike share - while we currently have a small section in the article on cycling it unduly focuses on Germany and does not cover many of the new systems that have recently arisen
Fuel economy / Fuel-efficient driving / Hypermiling - described at The Other Site. Described in brief in budget travel.
Not really within our scope. Just because The Other Site has a particular travel topic doesn't mean we have to. --AndreCarrotflower (talk) 02:53, 21 February 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
New Zealand without a car
rail travel in Spain - given that Spain has the second longest high speed rail network in the world and that there have recently been "private" operators with incompatible ticketing systems entering the market, I think it's time we did an article on rail travel in Spain
Intracoastal Waterway — navigation route on the Atlantic Coast and Gulf of Mexico in the United States --Comment by  Selfie City (talk) (contributions) 15:05, 19 June 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Ferries in Indonesia - Indonesia#By boat 2 includes some information, and the section gives me a feeling that there's a lot more to write about the topic. --Ypsilon (talk) 19:04, 28 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
See[edit]
Architecture in general; Why we have an article covering the topic as well as a select few "styles" including Gothic architecture and novelty architecture, the overall coverage is sorely lacking; especially compared to our coverage on historical travel. What about articles on Art deco architecture, Renaissance architecture or whatever the hell the fifties style concrete monsters are called ?
We have Art Deco architecture. It's annoying that Art deco architecture doesn't redirect unless it's written in the search window.  Ikan Kekek (talk) 13:11, 2 July 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I shall create this redirect. And it should be mentioned on the architecture page. I think my point still stands. Several eras are not covered at all and the eras we do cover are not all that well covered. Hobbitschuster (talk) 13:37, 2 July 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Your point does stand. There indeed could be more coverage of architecture - not to mention painting and sculpture. Ikan Kekek (talk) 20:19, 2 July 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
w:Brutalist architecture.  Powers (talk) 23:20, 2 July 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
There are probably even enthusiasts for that... After all, when they constructed the Plattenbau (GDR style high rises) in the 1970s and 1980s they considered them to be the best thing since sliced bread and wanted to tear down places like Dresden-Neustadt (which - if you read the listings carefully - is now the most popular part of Dresden with most tourists, precisely because it wasn't torn down). And other epochs like the architecture of Al Andalus or the British-Indian architecture (touched upon in British Raj) are well worth a detour if not a trip... Hobbitschuster (talk) 11:51, 3 July 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Raising my hand as a fan of Brutalism. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 02:41, 4 September 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Burtalist architecture is what built the National Theatre on London's South Bank and the Barbican, both noted arts venues :)ShakespeareFan00 (talk) 20:26, 25 June 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Other architecture red links moved from Architecture#Architectural styles. These may not all be viable topics, but they didn't belong in that article.  
Classical architecture
Romanesque architecture
Eastern Orthodox church architecture
Baroque architecture
Art Nouveau architecture
Modern architecture
Socialist realist architecture
Nazi architecture
Byzantine architecture
Mormon churches
Stalinist architecture
African-American culture
Or  perhaps even African-American history? --Comment by  Selfie City (talk about my contributions) 16:33, 29 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
African-American history now exists. Ikan Kekek (talk) 06:26, 10 November 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Adivasi - India's indigenous people
Ainu culture
Atheism and irreligion; destinations and venues related to irreligious celebrities such as Karl Marx and Christopher Hitchens; possible connection to science tourism and paleontology. /Yvwv (talk) 10:13, 25 August 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Bedouin/Bedouin culture - the nomadic peoples of Arabia
Berber culture
Gulag travel — Provide historical information, a listing of accessible sites, and various info (like accessibility, common restrictions, etc) about travel to gulags, mostly in Russia but there are a few in Kazakhstan too.
Basic information could be added to the Soviet Union article, which is now categorized under Historical travel. /Yvwv (talk) 20:03, 26 April 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Many individual articles mention the 'gulag' prison system so the topic looks valid. Perhaps it should be a sub-topic added to our growing collection of Cold War articles.
Interesting topic... in theory. It does not sound like something the current government would appreciate. At least, do not mention this in a visa application. Actually, the current trend is to make information on the gulags less available and perhaps even disappear completely. Gulag travel does not go well in a country where Stalin even today is considered a great hero. Philaweb (talk) 18:28, 23 January 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
History of piracy including Caribbean privateers, Barbary corsairs and other notorious sea bandits; we have the Vikings already
Interior design including furniture, kitchenware etc. Some overlap with textiles, visual arts and architecture
Khoi culture/Khoikhoi culture/Khoekhoe culture, San culture (Bushman culture)
Kurdish culture - while Kurdistan exists as an article, it is unlikely to become a political entity in the near future; still the Kurds have a distinct culture, which can be found across a vast area of the Middle East
Manhattan skyline guide — a New York City skyline guide styled after the Chicago skyline guide. Discussion moved to Talk:Manhattan skyline guide.
art galleries merely redirects to visual arts, an obvious gap.
And maybe specialist attractions such as Automotive museums.
Monuments, prehistoric sites, libraries and archives also all redlink.
Libraries and monuments are too broad. Even prehistoric sites and archives are pretty broad, so I'm not sure if these are as good travel topics as they seem. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk about my contributions) 21:51, 4 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Marine history would be another prominent subdivision to cover museums, we already have Old ships don't we? 10:22, 25 May 2019 (UTC)
Museums is now a Usable article. Ikan Kekek (talk) 06:28, 10 November 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Natural springs in Florida — An overview of the numerous springs in the state and what activities are available.
Negrito culture in Philippines
Spomeniks — monuments often built on the remote locations of WWII massacres across former Yugoslavia. They were intentionally built to futurist and abstract designs (in contrast to socialist realist style favoured in other contemporary communist countries), so as to remove any impression on taking sides, as both the perpetrators and victims of the massacres became fellow citizens after the war. Some got destroyed during the Yugoslav Wars of the 1990s, some are well maintained, but many are just left to be. Wikipedia has lists and there is a website dedicated to them. Vidimian (talk) 07:07, 22 April 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
"Spomenik" is just the word for "monument" in Serbo-Croatian, so perhaps a different name would be more suitable... Daggerstab (talk) 12:33, 21 March 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Temples (currently redirects to religion and spirituality) and cathedrals (redlink)
Isn't at least the latter already covered in Christianity? Hobbitschuster (talk) 23:47, 31 May 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Could be better covered, but that's down to people taking more time to develop that article. A lot of Gothic cathedrals are covered in the Gothic architecture article, though. Ikan Kekek (talk) 11:28, 2 October 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Royal palaces - royal families are somewhat covered in monarchies.
We also have Castles and Grand houses, wouldn't those three cover them? –LPfi (talk) 07:07, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I would think so. Ikan Kekek (talk) 10:01, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Artisans and crafts - see pottery, jewels or handicrafts being made. (May also be "buy" if products are for sale.)
Sightseeing in general; planning an independent sightseeing, finding appropriate guided tours, pros and cons of different modes of transport, etc
Imho this topic is too general. What non-obvious things are there to say about sightseeing that don't hugely depend on the sights themselves or the destination? Hobbitschuster (talk) 21:20, 3 September 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I think we should remove this one from the list and redirect it to "Attractions". --Comment by  Selfie City (talk | contributions) 21:51, 29 October 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Attractions is mostly a collection of article lists, with a one-paragraph try at giving advice. In this function it should be seen as a stub. –LPfi (talk) 07:23, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Ethnic enclaves — Chinatowns, Little Indias and other similar districts where you can (sort of) experience other cultures if you can't afford long-distance travel. ϒpsilon (talk) 04:29, 29 July 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Megaliths: More than just Stonehenge
Wildlife regions/Biogeographic regions (w:Biogeographic regions): We have African flora and fauna which describes wildlife in the Afrotropical realm. While the scientific terms for the biogeographic regions are less used in vernacular English, they could be called North American wildlife, Central and South American wildlife, Eurasian wildlife, South Asian wildlife, Australian wildlife, etc. Some smaller regions could deserve separate articles, such as the wildlife of Madagascar, etc.
I've created Biomes and ecosystems along those lines. Selfie City (talk) 00:34, 12 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Performance magic,   Requested because there are a small number of prop museums, and of course there are venues such as those in Vegas where the purpose of a trip is to see a specific illusionist. ShakespeareFan00 (talk) 13:16, 25 June 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Jainism, if not described as a sub-topic of Hinduism
It is mentioned in Sacred_sites_of_the_Indian_sub-continent. But obviously it can also have its own article. Gizza (roam) 21:41, 31 October 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Silk; farming, manufacturing, tailoring and historical sites
I think this fits pretty well in the "textiles" article, where it is mentioned now. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk | contributions) 01:55, 26 October 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Performance art — above we have a suggestion for a Performance magic. Would it be a good idea to have a "collection" article for performance art including theater, different music performances etc.
I think an article like this would be a good idea, but I don't think it should be called "Performance art", because I think that term usually refers to more conceptual art that is of interest to a fairly specific, narrow audience, rather than normal theatrical performances, concerts, etc. Maybe Performing arts? —Granger (talk · contribs) 20:07, 9 March 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Exactly. Ikan Kekek (talk) 20:17, 9 March 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Sustainable technology tourism, including industries and buildings which are forerunners in waste management, recycling, energy efficiency, clean power, pollution management and other pro-environmental technologies
Isn't that just a sub-topic of Industrial tourism? Hobbitschuster (talk) 13:21, 30 March 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Kurorte in Germany, Spas in Central Europe, Spas in Europe,  Belle Epoque health tourism or some such, have a look at w:de:Great Spas of Europe to get some idea what I am talking about - basically the places where the rich and the famous of the Victorian Age got their (real or imagined) illnesses cured and hobnobbed with the other rich and famous
We have Spas. I suppose the mentioned articles could be created when the appropriate sections in Spas get unwieldy. –LPfi (talk) 07:13, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Religion in East Asia; preferrably covered in one article, as Buddhism is usually syncretized with local religions such as Taoism and Shinto
"Preferrably covered in one article". Who says? If these religions really have a lot in common, maybe call the article "Buddhism and Taoism" or something along those lines, but "Religion in East Asia" would also include a lot of Muslims in Indonesia and Malaysia, along with Christians in the Philippines and South Korea. In other words, you can find followers of almost any religion in East Asia, so this really isn't the best travel topic idea in my opinion. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk | contributions) 02:42, 27 October 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Should Buddhism cover what is not too much intertwined with Taoism & al (as it now does) and Taoism and Shinto discuss also the blending? –LPfi (talk) 07:36, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
The blending of Buddhism with Taoism and Confucianism is to my understanding mostly a Chinese phenomenon, and of course the blending of Buddhism with Shintoism is solely Japanese. Does that answer your question? I will say this: Shintoism and Buddhism are blended in Japan, but there are  some differences. However, the coexistence between the two religions is shown by the fact that it's common for a Shinto shrine to be next to or near a Buddhist temple. Ikan Kekek (talk) 10:01, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Yes, to my understanding also. I suppose this is so common in Taoism & al that it should be covered in those articles, while it is of less significance for Buddhism, and could in that article be mentioned in passing only.
In the case of China (and other areas within the Chinese cultural sphere like Taiwan, Hong Kong and overseas Chinese communities), it is common for the same temple to have deities from multiple religions. Taipei's Longshan Temple is a prime example of that. The dog2 (talk) 23:15, 25 August 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Bushman culture / Khoekhoe culture / San culture
Factory tours: We have some travel topics by type of industry or economic sector (agritourism and mining tourism) but there is potential to have many more. [...]
As far as countries go, Industrial Japan and Industrial Germany would be important to have too. Gizza (roam) 02:41, 24 May 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Town twinning is alluded to in twin towns (disambiguation), which also covers the unrelated Twin Cities concept. If there's something specific for the traveller to see or do, usually an event or cultural exchange as an activity like "Dull and Boring Days" in Boring OR USA, these might be travel-relevant as a separate topic. (We don't need a full list of every "twinned town" or "sister city" as there are a few thousand in Europe alone, many with just a signpost or a plaque at City Hall in the respective communities. w:Twin towns and sister cities is a good overview.)
Maybe we can have a section somewhere in a ctiy article on her sister cities? Hobbitschuster (talk) 00:20, 23 April 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Not really travel related. Wikipedia has enough trouble keeping the lists up to date.  Powers (talk) 00:36, 23 April 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Maybe change the existing twin town entry from disambiguation to travel topic and leave it at that? K7L (talk) 10:35, 15 April 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
art galleries merely redirects to visual arts, an obvious gap.
And maybe specialist attractions such as Automotive museums.
Historical travel[edit]
see also Talk:Historical travel#Requested articles
Aztecs, currently a redirect to Indigenous cultures of North America
Historic monuments; currently redirects to historical travel
IMO think it's too broad a topic. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk about my contributions) 20:06, 14 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Franks / Frankish Empire. Vikings and the Old Norse mentions the Normans. /Yvwv (talk) 19:48, 31 October 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
History of feminism
Hundred Years War
Mentioned in brief in Kingdom of France and medieval Britain and Ireland. /Yvwv (talk) 04:47, 6 July 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Maritime history - compare with Aviation history
Mathematics tourism: Bridges of Königsberg, pyramids of Giza, Pythagoreon, and other inspiring locations. Homes, schools and graves of famous mathematicians
Nok culture - Iron Age civilization of West Africa
Inca Empire (including Inca Trail etc)* War of 1812 currently redirects to Early United States history, which lists almost entirely US eastern seaboard cities - ignoring the British stronghold in Canada, ignoring whatever was going on in the UK or Europe at the time.
American Revolution also simply redirects to Early United States history. Apparently, it would be a viable travel topic which should cover the thirteen colonies' secession from the Egyptian, Chinese or Islamic empires?
Revolutionary history - visit the sites of the French Revolution, the 1830 Revolution, the life and travels of George Washington, on the trail of Francisco de Miranda (who was everywhere and talked to everyone) or myriad other topics. Do a crossing of the Andes like José de San Martin or retrace the exile-triumph-exile cycle of Simon Bolivar.
I think you'd agree, that's an overbroad topic and will work better as subtopic articles. Would there be enough for an article about the 1848 Revolution? What about Spanish Civil War sites? Ikan Kekek (talk) 07:34, 17 May 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
oh for sure. I'd make the main article an overview. As for 1848 - I don't know. Hobbitschuster (talk) 09:12, 17 May 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Srivijaya - thalassocracy of Southeast Asia
Spanish Civil War/20th-century Spain with places related to the Republics, the dictatorship and the transition to democracy /Yvwv (talk) 15:02, 15 March 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Modern Japanese history - past pre-modern Japan. We have Japanese Colonial Empire
Taiping Rebellion - a major rebellion in Imperial China during the 19th century and one of the bloodiest wars in world history. There are many historical sites in China with a connection to the Taiping Rebellion, especially in Guangxi, Jiangsu and Zhejiang.
The Troubles. I don't know if I'm actually requesting this; instead, I'd like to discuss it. I just deleted a link to the Wikipedia article about this horrible time in the history of Northern Ireland, but I had the thought that although the topic is delicate, it might make sense at some point to create a travel topic for people who would like more insight into The Troubles. For example, in Belfast, they should see the murals on the Protestant and Catholic sides of the city and go to the memorial for Catholic martyrs near the former wall. I don't know if it's too soon for there to be such a topic, though, in view of the hard feelings on both sides and continuing tension. Ikan Kekek (talk) 22:54, 10 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
An interesting prospect for a topic. According to Wikivoyage:Naming conventions we avoid the in article names including travel topic. Our article on the Holocaust is named Holocaust remembrance. Could we find a suitable name for this article? /Yvwv (talk) 11:12, 11 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I wonder if we have enough regular contributors editing destinations in Northern Ireland and Ireland to be confident of producing balanced correctly nuanced coverage of a sensitive area of recent history. It would be better to cover a longer period from the w:Easter Rising (or earlier) to the w:Good Friday Agreement. The events of 1916 in Dublin are more easily viewed as history than the bombing in Omagh in 1998. AlasdairW (talk) 20:40, 11 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
A broader topic as you outlined would be fine, and segments of it could always be spun off whenever it gets long. In terms of nomenclature, though, if the topic on the Holocaust didn't have the word "remembrance" in it, we could easily use the phrase "Nazi Holocaust", but in this case, "The" is always used and "Troubles" wouldn't make sense. So per ttcf and as an exception like The Hague, we should use "The" in the title if we go with this topic. Ikan Kekek (talk) 21:02, 11 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Would Irish republicanism do? Compare w:Irish republicanism. /Yvwv (talk) 14:55, 4 October 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
That's only one side of the conflict. We'd have to be very careful to avoid bias if we focus only on that side. Ikan Kekek (talk) 18:23, 4 October 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Belgian Empire - Not sure if there is enough content, but could potentially cover Rwanda and the DRC.
Wars of the Roses — Series of wars for the English throne between the House of York and House of Lancaster, the main inspiration for George R. R. Martin's fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire, which in turn inspired the television series Game of Thrones.
English Civil War, could be mentioned in brief in Early modern Britain and Ireland
Numismatics and coinage: Coin collections, mints, and use of coinage in history and archaeology
European folklore, with a historic background to modern horror fiction, Dracula, Frankenstein, fringe phenomena and Halloween. Touched on in Medieval Europe and Nordic folk culture
Fiction tourism[edit]
See Talk:Fiction tourism#Requested topics for additional proposed topics.
Doctor Who tourism
I've Been Everywhere the Australian country song that lists all of the destinations that the singer Lucky Starr has been to. Adapted to other countries (New Zealand, Canada, US, UK) by singers like Hank Snow and Johnny Cash. See the wikipedia article for more info.
Nibelungen tourism - the famous stories about Siegfried &co. may claim to be based on historical events, but they rather belong under "fiction". Worms and Bayreuth are obvious destinations
Hunger Games tourism - about the 12 districts in Panam - aka CA, US and Mexico.
Soap opera tourism - I'm no fan of soap operas myself, but perhaps we can have a travel topic for fans of long-running shows like Australia's Neighbours, or the UK's Coronation Street. The dog2 (talk) 19:51, 7 June 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I can't see that such a topic would make sense, as there have been loads and loads of soap operas. Pick one and do an itinerary or travel topic on it. Ikan Kekek (talk) 19:40, 7 June 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Sound of Music
Do[edit]
4H / 4-H
Alpine touring / ski touring (compare with Telemark skiing)
Association football in South America/Association football in Latin America, bit of a gap when soccer and association football redirect to Association football in Europe
Bandy
Baseball in Japan, modelled after Baseball in the United States
Ballooning currently redirects to Air sport#Ballooning, which has little or no content; Activities#Hot air balloons is no better.
Busking / Street performance
Carnivals. Mardi Gras redirects to the one in New Orleans but there are hundreds of such festivals around the world. Additionally, there is plenty to pull from Wikipedia with regards to "Carnival in X city/region" pages.
Country music
Dancing This is a big one that has been missed. Most cities has at least some dancing, but some cities are better than others as dance hubs! Might also fit in the "reasons to travel" section, if you are travelling often enough to different dance events. Currently there's a workable article on Salsa Dancing in Latin America, but there is more than just Salsa in Latin America, there are many styles of solo and partner dance; and there are many other places besides Latam with salsa, besides.
I think that's way too broad a topic for an article. Ikan Kekek (talk) 07:29, 18 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
It is, but could be broken down, written in pieces by authors who know some specific theme (such as the mentioned salsa article); Dancing could be more or less an index (like Winter sports, covering some themes that don't warrant or don't have their own article). I assume Argentinian tango and some other specific genres would be worthwhile articles. What about the ballroom dances (and similar pair dances) as social dancing? Are those danced commonly enough around the (Western?) world that one might want to check on them before some kinds of travel (such as if you prefer a dance restaurant over disco, or are going to attend a wedding)? Cf Finland#Social dancing. Folk dances are too region-specific in general, but some have got international attention (we had a American square dance course in my tiny, not dance-oriented, student club). –LPfi (talk) 09:47, 18 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
We have Salsa dancing in Latin America. AlasdairW (talk) 09:57, 18 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Disaster tourism is marginal for inclusion (Wikipedia has w:Disaster tourism focussed largely on Hurricane Katrina); yes there's an official Chornobyl tour but is this really worth exposing and re-exposing your guides to atomic radiation?
Deep sea or Submarines
Doctor Who tour
Drive-in cinemas. (We have amusement parks and drive-in restaurants are already somewhat covered as "car hop" in the fast food article.)
DXpeditions — deployment of amateur and two-way radio stations in next-to-impossible destinations‎ on a portable or temporary basis
Extreme sports — Base jumping, ice cross downhill and such.
Redirect to sport. These activities are probably best categorized under air sport, water sport, winter sport, etc.
Electronic music / DJ events / Rave — some overlap with nightlife
Eurovision Song Contest - Probably the world's largest musical event, held annually. It draws tens of thousands of visitors to the event venue and the city where its hosted. I don't think we need individual articles for each event like the Olympic Games or World Expos but one general article could be useful. Ypsilon (talk) 18:31, 16 May 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Explore quarries, possible? Dee Koestering Park
Isn't that already covered by Mining tourism? Vidimian (talk) 10:30, 4 July 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Mining tourism breifly mentions quarries, but we could have a separate article. I would like this to describe how to safely explore small quarries that you may come across when exploring the countryside (if legal access is allowed). AlasdairW (talk) 21:57, 6 July 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Firearms redlinks, but we have hunting and recreational shooting.
Gaelic football
Gamelan
Geocaching — currently a redirect to Travel activities, which only has a couple sentences on the subject
Hash House Harriers. A popular recreation, especially for expatriates in Southeast Asia where it originated. Now found in many countries & tourists who hash back home often want to take part in a run wherever they go. See w:Hash House Harriers.
Heavy metal - some overlap with [[rock and roll] but could be distinct enough
Hip hop/Hip hop music
Homeless guides (exists in London)
Hosts and hostesses, could be described within the nightlife article
Hurling
Kabaddi
K-pop
Lacrosse
Latin American social dance; generalization of Salsa dancing in Latin America; also social dancing worldwide, such as tango in Finland or the dansband community in Sweden
Live theatre — (There is a bit of overlap between theatre and literary tourism)
Mahjong (mentioned in travellers' pub)
Massage
Site search results for NASCAR. This is a popular sport and definitely merits an article. Ikan Kekek (talk) 06:41, 3 November 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Let's make a redlink for NASCAR, then. ϒpsilon (talk) 18:02, 15 June 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Norwegian black metal scene — regular shows/festivals, studios, and the sites relevant to the early scene of the 1990s. As time passes by this topic is becoming more "legit" (so to speak), and it attracts a certain level of interest as indicated by movies, documentaries (even about individual bands), and people travelling from far and wide to visit the associated sites. Nordic music mentions black metal in a single sentence, but it seems to be too broad of a topic to cover this one in length. Vidimian (talk) 17:43, 21 April 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Can be started as a subsection of Nordic music /Yvwv (talk) 21:24, 21 April 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I made a start there. Vidimian (talk) 09:01, 22 April 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Opera currently redirects to European classical music
Why do you think it should have its own separate topic? It might ultimately merit being separated, but let's see how things go. Ikan Kekek (talk) 06:38, 10 November 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Parkour / Free running
Planespotting
Polka
Folk music of the British Isles and pop music on the British Isles, or by Ireland/Northern Ireland/Scotland/Wales
Music of the United States, similar to Music on the British Isles Music in Britain and Ireland
In my opinion, too broad a topic. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk | contributions) 01:44, 26 October 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Reggae
Rhythm and blues, soul music, blues - sites related to popular music history from the 1950s to today. (Rock and roll and Jazz were created in 2018.)
Roller sport/Roller sports/Skateboarding/Roller skating
Sailing (Sailing ships?) - I changed the redirect into a disambiguation page, but noticed we have nothing on sailing in the spirit of Sail Training International or Tall Ships' Races, and neither about the many smaller sailing ships providing commercial cruises of a day or a few (or longer, but without typical cruise ship amenities), hopefully with real sailing. I think those three could be handled in the article, with links to Cruise ships and Cruising on small craft for most of the rest.
Samba
Sepak takraw - big sport in Southeast Asia (w:Sepak takraw)
Fan conventions / science fiction conventions, etc – the main topic conventions (and convention planning) also redlinks.
Scouting; about how to travel with help of the international Scout movement (international camps, lodging, hospitality exchange etc.). Some info in Summer camp
Sumo
Tennis: A sport that is both played and watched on holiday
Travel selfies/selfies: As a subtopic of travel photography. A key component of travel among the social media generation.
Is it taking selfies that is the main point, or should it be about cameras of smart phones and similar, in the same way as full systems are handled in their own article? If the former it should perhaps rather be part of a series about choosing how to compose your photos: how do you make your image of the Notre-Dame interesting – with the cathedral as a selfie background or otherwise.
Good points. I was thinking of two things when I proposed this. 1. taking a high quality selfie - what background you should have, how you should take it including the angle, zoom, poses, etc. but also the tools so which smartphone or proper camera (I think modern cameras have selfie modes) and selfie sticks/drones. And 2. the safety issues with taking selfies, since there are sadly stupid people who put themselves in dangerous situations like standing at an edge of a cliff. I was thinking of a similar article to wildlife photography. These were some articles I found on other sites [5] [6] [7] [8] although some of theses article talk about taking photos when you're alone which overlaps but is not the same thing. Gizza (roam) 00:07, 15 June 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Obviously, my opinion would be naturally important here considering my username, although actually I am not a big selfie person. But this article could make sense for a travel guide. Selfie City (talk) 17:50, 10 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Visiting pygmy settlements — the name "pygmy" is the commonly-used name (although technically a derogatory slur) for the short-statured people not of Bantu descent who live in isolated villages across Central Africa. This guide would provide an overview of locations to visit their settlements in the countries of Central Africa and general activities & accommodations when visiting along with how to reach them.
Water parks, subset of amusement parks
Water skiing / water-skiing
Winter in Russia, and Winter in Mongolia. Similar to Winter in the Nordic countries. Gizza (roam) 10:43, 25 September 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Learn[edit]
Learning a language abroad — some overlap with—or maybe a subsection of—Studying abroad...this section would cover how to find good language programs, types of programs, length and advantages/disadvantages of length of study. It should also discuss pure language programs versus combining language studies/exercise with work, other studies (e.g. exchange programs) or vacation activities and how prior knowledge of the language influences the choices. Previously attempted at language tourism, which currently points to a single paragraph of travel activities.
Erasmus – a European study exchange programme, the major one for Europeans wanting to study abroad. The article could cover the European higher education system as harmonized in the Bologna process, perhaps with a name such as Studying in Europe.
Work[edit]
Working holiday — currently redirects to one section of working abroad. Should cover the various work-holiday schemes available in countries like E.U., Australia, NZ, US. We have gap year travel, which may overlap slightly. There are many pitfalls by which itinerant workers may be exploited abroad.
WWOOFing — "Willing workers on organic farms", the WWOOF page is a redirect (after vfd discussion). There is a brief mention in Volunteer travel and a good article about agrotourism in general, but no topic page specifically about working on farms.
WWOOF is just one network or organisation; why limit this? We have working abroad but not an article specific to working on farms. The Australian backpacker visa programme, for instance, is worth at least a mention. K7L (talk) 00:50, 27 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Temporary work / seasonal work / Odd jobs - informal (but not illegal) work outside the scope of working abroad and business travel, such as street performing, restaurant and bar jobs, ski or watersport coach, tour guide, etc
Digital nomad/Digital nomading/Digital nomadry: brief info in working abroad
Buy[edit]
Buying electronics abroad — overlaps region coding, electrical systems and mobile telephones, but a huge chunk of United States of America#Buy seems to be devoted to buying various incompatible electronic baubles and bringing them home on the off-chance one will work. This content is a candidate to be split out of the country article to a new or existing travel topic. See Talk:United States of America#Buying a mobile phone.
-Much of United States of America#Buy has been moved to Shopping in the United States.
Dog adoption - general advice how to find serious agents abroad
Fashion - In other words where to purchase something special, as opposed to the practical day to day clothing the traveller packs for a trip away. As discussed in the travellers pub, there are a number of centers globally which are places specifically known for their connection with fashion. An article about buying a Kimono is already present.  I've put this under Buy as I felt that this would be where the focus of a topic would be.  There may be some overlap with See/Do, given that a topic on Fashion could also cover Costume History. ShakespeareFan00 (talk) 07:24, 19 September 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
We can start building on the Clothing artilce. /Yvwv (talk) 23:49, 12 November 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Jewellery shopping/Jewelry shopping. Buying niche gemstones, etc. not common in your hometown or country and where you lack experience and specialist knowledge. Tips on how to assess and get the highest quality for the best price.
Wool - traditional craft of woolen clothing, and exclusive fabrics such as merino, alpaca and camel hair
Watches - Where to buy expensive watches; watches good for different purposes (sport watches, cheap generic watches which can be afford to be lost), risks of carrying pirate watches through customs
Records and audio equipment - Vinyl records, vintage audio systems, as well as modern Bluetooth equipment; some connection with music, nostalgia, art and antiques shopping and electrical systems
Vehicle import - Some car makers have setups for private car imports to evade tariffs. A one-way roadtrip, selling the car and flying home can be a good setup in some cases
Isn't this too much of a gamble? If it is a viable method to get a cheap car for your voyage, it would probably be OK, but if you have to read up on loopholes in import law and forecast selling prices, making a big loss if something unanticipated happen, then I don't think it is a thing for a travel guide. And if we are into the grey area of legality (by your being a nominal but not real buyer and seller), then our illegal activities guideline may apply. –LPfi (talk) 14:37, 14 September 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I don't think we should have an article on importing a car to sell. It would have to be written on the basis that you declare the import at customs and pay the taxes, which is unlikely to yield much profit even if a buyer has already paid you in advance. It would have to be written on the basis of the traveller going to buy a car for their own use. This could also apply to buying a second-hand car - friends have travelled 200 miles to another city to buy a car because the prices are lower there, and in a more extreme example some older Japanese cars are exported to New Zealand. Are the laws on vehicle importation consistent enough around the world for this us to be able to offer useful advice? AlasdairW (talk) 16:57, 14 September 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Lacquerware — popular purchase in Japan, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, among others. The dog2 (talk) 18:01, 10 August 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Ceramics — popular purchase in China, Korea, Japan, Vietnam and several European countries too. The dog2 (talk) 18:01, 10 August 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Eat/Drink[edit]
Dinner trains and dinner cruises. We have rail travel with some info on dining cars, but dinner cruises are usually boat tours on Gilligan's Island sized three-hour runs (longer trips are addressed at cruise ships, which are floating hotels with restaurants).
Would the latter suite in Tour boats? I think the point of getting your dinner at sea is to view the landscape/sights, so including there would be natural.
Tourist trains has been created with a short section on dinner trains; discussion moved to Talk:Tourist trains#Dinner trains.
What about dinner cruises though? Hobbitschuster (talk) 19:37, 12 July 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
River boat and barge canal cruising were suggested above (in Get in), in addition to Boat tours (in Get around) and they could probably include dinner cruises, especially if not focusing on a single type of waterway. –LPfi (talk) 09:06, 11 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Roadside diners are technically not fast food as they offer table service, but occupy a price point between a fast-food joint and a standard restaurant.
And they represent a niche in North American cuisine that, while rarely recognized as such, is actually quite distinct. And many of them are notable for quirky midcentury architecture/interior design. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 19:32, 17 May 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
We have an article on Truck stops, perhaps the scope of this (at the moment rather short) article could be expanded to include roadside diners and other places to eat catering to car and bus travelers. ϒpsilon (talk) 04:46, 15 June 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
You might find the Roadfood website a useful source of information about some of these. Ikan Kekek (talk) 05:12, 15 June 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
There's also a fast food in North America article which list out the fast food joints, which are a modern equivalent to a  "roadside diner". A number of these North American fast food restaurants have an international presence outside of North America too.
Cuisine articles by country or supra-national region, as these are probably what travellers look for:
Turkish cuisine (w:Turkish cuisine)
Isn't Middle Eastern cuisine largely an extension of Turkish cuisine? Of course, there are regional cuisines in Turkey. I'd suggest increasing coverage of Turkish food in the Middle Eastern cuisine article and then thinking about spinning off a separate article if that seems most user-friendly. Ikan Kekek (talk) 06:43, 10 November 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Taiwanese cuisine (w:Taiwanese cuisine) - it's unique. It specializes in street food. The night markets, etc. Also, one of its most famous dishes is omelet with oysters.
Oyster omelets are also Malaysian cuisine. I figure their origin is probably Teochew, therefore - see w:Teochew cuisine. So not at all unique to Taiwan. Ikan Kekek (talk) 21:54, 7 March 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
@Ikan Kekek: I don't know who invented it first, but it is part of both traditional Hokkien and Teochew cuisines. Sorry, these videos are in Chinese, but just to give you a visual reference, here's a video of the traditional Hokkien version they sell in Xiamen (The traditional Hokkien version has its own variants in Quanzhou, Zhangzhou and Zhao'an that differ significantly from the Xiamen variant as well), and here's a video of the traditional Teochew version they sell in Shantou. And speaking of the Teochew version, there's a variant you can get in Bangkok Chinatown as well. If you pay attention, they're all quite different from the Taiwanese, Malaysian and Singaporean versions. The dog2 (talk) 17:36, 16 April 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
A few cuisine types are not tied to a single region:
Fast food (we have the regional subtopic fast food in North America and there's likely some overlap with Street food).
A number of establishments listed in the fast food in North America article have an international presence outside of North America too.
Yes, but that's not a problem. There are independent chains in the North American tradition, and there are other traditions. We could create the page with a short Understand and links to the two mentioned articles, until more is added. –LPfi (talk) 09:20, 11 July 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Tequila, currently a destination.
Rum, currently a destination
Cider
Cocktails
Honey/Bee tourism/Beekeeping
Ice cream, gelato, etc. Ditto
Herbs and spices
Also, there's a lot to write about the history of spices, including the spice trade a few centuries ago, where certain spices and herbs are from, how and when they spread around the world etc.
Sake; The Other Site has an extensive article named Japanese sake tourism; if we reverse-engineer it with anorther title, we will probably not be penalized by search engines
Travelling on a low fat diet, Travelling on a low carbohydrate diet, Travelling on a diet (potentially others); similar to how we have travel as a vegetarian
:*I am now on a pretty strict ketogenic diet and have traveled with it for close to a month (3 weeks in California and Oregon and what will be a week in Upstate New York), and I've lost around 15 pounds in that time plus a couple of weeks at home, without starving myself in the least. Should I start a Travelling on a low carbohydrate diet article? Before I do, what if any concerns do you have about how the article should be written? Ikan Kekek (talk) 04:52, 15 August 2018 (UTC) (Existing article. Ikan Kekek (talk) 07:43, 8 July 2022 (UTC))Reply[reply]
Travelling on a gluten-free diet could be another variation on the theme, providing extremely important information for sufferers of celiac and other gluten-related disorders. Vidimian (talk) 23:22, 12 November 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
@Ikan Kekek: In my opinion, it would make the most sense to create a Travelling on a diet article with sections that cover different types of diets. Selfie City (talk) 01:45, 16 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
We already have a dedicated article on Kashrut, so what kinds of diets are being subsumed here? A keto diet such as I am on is for health, but celiac folks absolutely cannot have gluten in even one meal without getting violently ill, so the urgency of the diet is different. Ikan Kekek (talk) 06:10, 16 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I think Kashrut/kosher is an exception; the number of people on the diet justifies the article's existence. It would be interesting to find statistics comparing how many people are on each diet so we can get an idea about which would be the most useful to the traveler. Selfie City (talk) 01:51, 17 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I think any special diet would make a good article. If you're one of 100 people in the world who has to follow an oregano-free diet, and you find the article on travelling without coming in contact with oregano in Wikivoyage (don't go to Italy), you'd be pretty happy. Ground Zero (talk) 03:43, 17 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
And low-carb diets are quite common. I think I'll just start the article soon, and anyone can edit it, anyway. Avoiding gluten for celiac folks should be its own article. Ikan Kekek (talk) 15:06, 17 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
If you were able to expand it to include other controlled carbohydrate diets the appeal of the article would be widened, at least until we get a Travelling with Diabetes article. I expect that many of the issues are similar whether you are trying to eat <10g or close to 50g of carbohydrate for lunch, but I could be wrong. However don't let me distract you from creating a useful article. AlasdairW (talk) 22:58, 17 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
All sorts of diets are common. Low carb, low fat, even low protein for people who only have one functioning kidney. They would benefit some travellers out there. Gizza (roam) 23:16, 17 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Thank God I don't have diabetes, and my current diet is likely to stave it off, so I can't easily address diabetes directly, but I'll start the article tonight, and I'd welcome any help from anyone who wants to address diabetes specifically. Ikan Kekek (talk) 03:36, 21 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Sugar - everything related to sugarcane, sugar beets, other sugar plants, their cultivation and processing, rum and other uses of the said plants including the connection with slavery and whatnot
Fungi/Mushrooms; according to modern taxonomy, they are not vegetable. While yeast and molds are catalytic ingredients in many dishes, an article on fungi would mainly deal with the mushrooms; the spore-bearing bodies of fungi consumed as food. /Yvwv (talk) 19:42, 14 April 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Biologically they're not plants, but from a culinary perspective they're vegetables, right? I think we could start with a section in Fruits and vegetables and see how it goes. —Granger (talk · contribs) 01:24, 15 April 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Competitive eating and food challenges - both watching and participating from the hot dog eating contest at Nathan's Famous in Coney Island to the 72oz steak challenge in Amarillo and other places in the w:Man v. Food tv show and Youtube channels of competitive eaters. This is mostly an American thing, but there are also a few places here in Finland for example where you will get into the restaurants "hall of fame" by eating a big hamburger or something like that. One problem is there are a lot of those places, so how to pick the most famous ones? Obviously, it's not exactly healthy, though you would of course not be eating like that every day... --Ypsilon (talk) 15:14, 26 May 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Sleep[edit]
Overview on booking Gîtes de France - currently just a section in the main France article and a disambig to Québec's B&B houses at gîte
A few less-common accommodation types listed at sleep (such as cabins, cottages, hunting/fishing outfitters camps) don't have individual articles yet. Campground redirects to camping, which has about a paragraph on the topic.
There is no room service. Garçon?
We have home exchange, hospitality exchange and vacation rentals, but basically nothing for AirBnB-style rentals (or the associated common scams and hazards with these schemes). w:Vacation rental mentions AirBnB, we don't. As with the Uber-like ride hailing services and the associated apps, AirBnB-style rentals are mentioned in a few individual city-level destinations with no generic, global-level description. Is there a generic name for these? Home stay networks (which currently exists as a bloated subsection of hospitality exchange) seems closest - but the AirBnB-style sites are inconsistent internally as to whether the idea is to stay in a home while the owners are present (B&B style) or merely be left to run amok while the landlord/landlady is absent (vacation rental style).
Cope[edit]
Connect[edit]
Smartphone use abroad/Travelling with mobile phones — the telephone service page was split to create mobile telephone and Internet telephony, but information on mobile Internet access is outdated, poorly-organised and split across multiple topics. This is closely related to buying electronics abroad as a "Buy" topic and heavily overlaps "Connect" and "Buy" sections in individual country articles.
Stay healthy[edit]
Food safety — currently redirects to stay healthy, should discuss safe handling of food & various precautions...some overlap with Infectious diseases#Water (or contaminated food) and #Food and Travellers' diarrhea
Immunization is a redirect, the topic is mentioned (as "vaccination") in stay healthy
Travelling with diabetes — Travelling with high blood pressure was recently created and while we probably shouldn't have articles for each and every illness, diabetes is fairly common and requires travellers to take into consideration many things (meals, meal times, carrying medicine and syringes and other equipment etc.).
Optometry and ophthalmology - glasses, contact lenses, optometric surgery etc
Eye care would seem to be a perfect topic match. Ikan Kekek (talk) 06:48, 10 November 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Motion sickness – carsickness, airsickness, and seasickness (not sure if these should be covered in one article or split into three)
Stay safe[edit]
Avalanches redirects to snow safety, an outline.
I think the avalanche part of that article would be usable on its own, it's just that other aspects are insufficiently covered. –LPfi (talk) 07:50, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Corruption / bribes — Currently both redirect (along with trouble with authorities) to Stay safe. Authority trouble was deleted, but deserves a new chance. A traveller could use advice how to deal with corruption, police brutality, unlawful detention, or charges of crime.
While an article on marijuana has been started at cannabis, drugs merely disambiguates and smoking redirects to tobacco.
Fire safety in hotels and on campgrounds; we have a page on wildfires only.
Sea piracy is mentioned in a few currently-affected or historic destinations, but as a hazard it broadly affects entire regions (Somalia in particular has spread its pirates hundreds of miles) and may therefore be best as a travel topic.
Touts — "special price only for you my friend...", perhaps it'd be good to have a page with some tactics for a first-time visitor to e.g. Tangier how to lose them before you lose your nerves. Ignoring touts doesn't always help or may not be possible.
There is an existing article about touts under Common scams. You can edit that article to include your ideas about touts or the information you have in mind is already there.
Upland terrain -  An article on Avalanches is mentioned previously here, but a more general stay safe article aimed at mountainous and upland terrain should be considered, some overlap with Altitude Sickness and Cold weather. ShakespeareFan00 (talk) 08:24, 29 June 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
There is some overlap between mountain ranges, mountaineering, and rock climbing. Every article should make clear its relationship to the others. /Yvwv (talk) 16:28, 19 September 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
These are mostly stubs as safety travel topics, and Glaciers is missing. –LPfi (talk) 08:05, 28 September 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Respect[edit]
Indigenous people, instead of being an article on responsible travel or respecting native ways and customs, merely redirects to cultural attractions. In a travel context, is related to the concept of ethnotourism.
It now redirects to Ethnic groups, which has links to some more related topics. Selfie City (talk) 00:27, 12 August 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Taboo, broad and difficult topic to begin writing about. Perhaps respect isn't the best section but hard to place. There may be some overlap with culture shock (see above). Gizza (roam) 14:12, 20 May 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Houseguest etiquette, including some of the ways that it varies by culture
Cheek kissing, the standard greeting in much of Europe and Latin America, usually confusing for English-speakers. Included with Respect, or another topic? /Yvwv (talk) 16:05, 22 February 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I'm thinking the article would be one on how to greet and take leave of people (what to do when you say "Hello" and "Goodbye"). I suppose the overall title could be "Greeting people" or something like that. Ikan Kekek (talk) 20:04, 22 February 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Modesty Standards - Adding this here, although ideally the local standards should be in the Respect section of the relevant articles.ShakespeareFan00 (talk) 11:06, 30 December 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Itineraries[edit]
Africa[edit]
Uganda Railway — (w:Uganda Railway) A tropical version of the Transsib, the railway was built a century ago in the middle of nowhere with much trouble. It was one of the main tourist lines in East Africa when completed. While trains nowadays only run on a part of this railway, it could still make for an interesting itinerary. ϒpsilon (talk) 16:41, 19 July 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Tangier to Cape Town overland — we have Alexandria to Cape Town by train and bus which is a surprisingly good outline, so maybe it would be possible to create a transcontinental itinerary along the west coast of Africa too? Ypsilon (talk) 15:01, 26 July 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Asia[edit]
Macau Heritage Walk, mentioned at Macau/Peninsula#See (or some other walk through the Macau Peninsula's historic areas)
Creating as a redirect. Pashley (talk) 21:14, 21 July 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Mekong River
Xuanzang's Journey to the West - the famous Chinese Buddhist monk's travels to Central Asia and India
Voyages of Sven Hedin
Europe[edit]
Bristol street art tour in Bristol
Big In Sweden [9] compare (Big things in Australia)
The Bridge tour in Copenhagen and Malmö (mentioned in Nordic Noir)
Stockholm Tech Tour including KTH, Kista, Spotify, PRQ etc
SKAM Tour in Oslo
On the trail of Kéraban Agha — I have yet to read Kéraban-le-têtu in any language, but travelling the full cincumference of the Black Sea to get from one side of the Bosphorus to the other sounds like a brilliant idea, and is certainly done by a number of travellers in real life. This particular novel by Jules Verne is mentioned in an infobox at Istanbul/Asian Side#Get in. Vidimian (talk) 18:04, 26 November 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Crossing the Alps on foot - something popular not only among experimental archeologists (who do the whole thing with about 40 kg of gear and armor), but increasingly a certain type of hikers. Parts of the route(s) are also popular with more classical tourists. Crossing the Alps by bike could also be an interesting itinerary / travel topic
Gastarbeiterroute (or any other term, though this seems to be the most commonly used German term) for what en-wp covers here (though check out de-WP if you read German at all) - the route on which migrant workers from Southeast Europe and Anatolia traveled to the latter region from Germany and Austria
Hadrian's Wall Path, a UK National Trail along Hadrian's Wall. Some good information could be gathered from w:Hadrian's Wall Path as a start.
Via Alpina
The Ridgeway (England), a UK national trail of some 87 km in length, I'm considering attempting to draft this in my userspace at some point, but if someone wants to start an itinerary  separately, I've no objections. ShakespeareFan00 (talk) 10:55, 28 June 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Großglockner Hochalpenstrasse (some variant spellings are currently redirects; one of which was merged into High Tauern National Park back in 2007); one of the most famous high alpine roads and a challenge for both motorists and cyclists.
Route Nationale 7 (in France) compare the wikipedia article  (and the one in French) for this famous erstwhile holiday route from Paris to the Mediterranean. Arte has made a video about it (in German) and in French
Scotch whisky route - already a very nice article coming together en français, which could be translated. --ThunderingTyphoons! (talk) 18:39, 10 April 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Whisky has an article.
Route Napoleon / Route Napoléon
What exactly is that? And could it be covered in or linked from Napoleonic Wars? Hobbitschuster (talk) 23:49, 31 May 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Possibly it can be covered in Napoleonic Wars, though it's still an itinerary. When Napoleon was defeated for the first time, the Coalition exiled him on the island of Elba but he managed to escape after less than a year. He was then at large for 100 days, moving north secretly along paths in the French Alps nowadays known as Route Napoleon and gathered a new army which was finally beaten at Waterloo. ϒpsilon (talk) 17:03, 24 December 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Paris of the French Revolution and Napoleonic Wars would be an interesting concept for a walking tour, including sites such as the Bastille, the Louvre and the Notre Dame. /Yvwv (talk) 09:48, 26 November 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
London LOOP (w:London Outer Orbital Path), 150 mi/242 km long-distance trail around London which I stumbled upon when wandering around Wikipedia. Looks like something worth an itinerary article, and as London is one of the cities Wikivoyage covers best, perhaps we have some contributor(s) familiar with this path? --Ypsilon (talk) 16:28, 30 May 2019 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Green Stockholm: The decommissioned gas works, recycling systems, bicycle garages, Mynttorget, etc. /Yvwv (talk) 17:58, 29 February 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
An outline exists at Stockholm environmentalist tour Hobbitschuster (talk) 16:12, 10 May 2020 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Stockholm true crime tour, Uppsala history tour, Stockholm spy tour
Berlin Wall
German Fairytale Route Based on Brothers Grimm and other collections
On the Trail of Goethe German polymath and author Johann Wolfgang von Goethe got around quite a bit, given that he died before the first railroad in his native country was built. His "Italian voyage" is particularly famous, but he also frequented a number of Bohemian Spas and numerous places make the "Goethe slept here" claim. There is also this.
Voyage of Jason and the Argonauts — modern sites identified with the places in the myth and the options for getting to them. Would be a good addition to our ancient Europe and explorers series. Vidimian (talk) 10:25, 30 December 2021 (UTC)Reply[reply]
North America[edit]
Cannonball Run
Cattle Trails of the Great Plains
East Coast hip hop tour in New York City
I like this idea a lot. Of course, a West Coast hip hop tour (Compton, Long Beach, South Central L.A. as well as Oakland) would also be de rigueur, as well as a Dirty South hip hop tour (Miami, Atlanta, etc.) -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 17:58, 6 February 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Horatio's Drive (wikipedia:Horatio's Drive: America's First Road Trip)
Seaway Trail - a well-established, signposted route through New York and Pennsylvania along the shores of the St. Lawrence River, Lake Ontario, the Niagara River, and Lake Erie; historic sites (French and Indian War, War of 1812), lighthouses, charming small towns, opportunities to sample local culture -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 00:30, 1 June 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Next on my list after Erie Canal. Powers (talk) 12:25, 1 June 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
National Heritage Areas: http://www.nps.gov/maps/full.html?mapId=01a03739-ab0c-40eb-bc3d-6791d3bb67fa
United States National Parks might be a good place to put National Heritage Areas, but that article first needs to be reorganized (and possibly split up?) -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 05:17, 8 June 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Portlandia Tour, for the comedy series set in Portland (Oregon)
Boston Post Road - an old Amerindian trail between Boston and New York City improved by early U.S. colonists to facilitate mail delivery. Now serves as the main street of many of the towns between those two cities, where many buildings from the Colonial and Revolutionary eras still stand (along with the many of the mileposts placed along the route in the 18th Century). Large portions of the route are listed in the National Register of Historic Places and/or as National Historic Landmarks.
The Lower Post Road, which connects the Bronx with Providence, RI, is part of US Route 1. I suppose you want to cover the Upper Post Road? Ikan Kekek (talk) 04:04, 24 June 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
1) Ideally we would cover all three of them. Some information for the Lower Post Road might be adapted from the US Route 1 article, but we'd want to place special emphasis on the Colonial- and Revolutionary-era historical relics you'll see along the way, rather than merely giving a generalized description of the route.
2) How is an article like US Route 1 allowable per policy anyway? We're not supposed to have articles on roads, and US-1 not particularly well-known as a tourist itinerary in its own right, like Route 66 and the Lincoln Highway are.
-- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 04:20, 24 June 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Why not? Driving on Route 1 gives the driver and passenger an experience of what a main road used to be like around 60-100 years ago. You drive through a lot of centers of towns, and also through countryside and old-fashioned strip malls - some of them in the center of the highway in New Jersey. But you probably know that, since you want to have an article about part of Route 1. Also, see Talk:U.S. Highway 1. Ikan Kekek (talk) 05:07, 24 June 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
That's kind of a stretch, but seeing as I'm not a huge fan of the anti-"road article" policy to begin with, I'll leave it alone. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 05:38, 24 June 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
On the trail of de Tocqueville - the itinerary followed by Alexis de Tocqueville on the 1831-32 trip to the young United States that led to his seminal two-volume work, Democracy in America. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 21:58, 6 September 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Looks like the U.S. cable network C-SPAN already did something like this, but with a focus on the political philosophies he discussed in his book rather than being geared toward travellers. This ought to sharply reduce the amount of research necessary to determine what route he took. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 22:01, 6 September 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
From Plymouth to Hampton Roads is an itinerary of the north-east, where more historical destinations can be inserted. /Yvwv (talk) 17:54, 3 October 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Fastest route through the Lower 48 http://www.datapointed.net/2012/08/fastest-route-to-visit-all-fifty-united-states/
Frankly, "driving through somewhere as quickly as possible" strikes me as almost antithetical to the concept of travel as defined on this site. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 22:56, 29 August 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Something like Driving across the United States would be a better idea. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk about my contributions) 20:03, 14 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Life on the Mississippi Tour - The first half of the book sees Mark Twain reminiscing on his experiences as a steamboat pilot plying the Mississippi River between St. Louis and New Orleans in the 1850s. The second half has him making the same trip around 1883 and remarking on the changes that had taken place on the river (and in American life in general) in the interim. Our article might start with a discussion of long-distance riverboat cruises or other present-day ways to retrace the route, then go on to the itinerary itself where for each major city along the way we'd give historical overviews of what the place was like in both of the time periods relevant to the book, as well as what's around to attract visitors today. For the latter, we might emphasize historical attractions representing time periods roughly contemporaneous with Twain's career (i.e. restored antebellum homes in Natchez, the Vicksburg National Military Park, the Gateway Arch in St. Louis as starting point for Lewis and Clark's voyage and symbolic Gateway to the West) but also include more generalized tourist sites (Graceland in Memphis, the French Quarter). -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 19:10, 17 December 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Scandinavian American Tour in the trails of real-life Swedish, Norwegian and Danish settlers, as well as historical fiction, such as The Emigrants by Vilhelm Moberg. /Yvwv (talk) 23:26, 15 May 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Redirected to Emigrants tour, with less broad scope, on 23 January 2020‎. –LPfi (talk) 13:02, 27 September 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Cabot Trail around Cape Breton, New Scotland is mentioned in a few places but redlinks
Frank Lloyd Wright Trail in Wisconsin, as covered in this recent Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel article. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 00:37, 17 May 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
See also Architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright
Grapes of Wrath
Route 101 / U.S. Route 101 (w:U.S. Route 101, w:U.S. Route 101 in California, w:U.S. Route 101 in Oregon, and w:U.S. Route 101 in Washington)
National Road (w:National Road)
Sherman's March to the Sea - the most famous military campaign in US history, passing through Georgia (State) and still debated among historians and laypeople alike for its military genius and moral implications of waging "total war"
Colorado Trail (w:Colorado Trail)
United States National Forests - List of National Forests in the United States. National Forests that have their own article are Angeles National Forest, Apalachicola National Forest, Black Hills National Forest, Choctawhatchee National Forest, Cleveland National Forest, Daniel Boone National Forest, El Yunque National Forest, Lincoln National Forest, Mark Twain National Forest, Mendocino National Forest, Ocala National Forest, Oconee National Forest, Osceola National Forest, Sequoia National Forest, Shawnee National Forest, Wayne National Forest, White Mountain National Forest, and Willamette National Forest.
Gifford Pinchot National Forest is the national forest surrounding Mount St Helens. Rather than a separate article it can  serve as an appendix to the existing Mount Saint Helens article.
Pikes Peak Ocean to Ocean Highway (w:Pikes_Peak_Ocean_to_Ocean_Highway)
Minnesota Industry Tour, an appendix to American Industry Tour
Interstate 95 (w:Interstate 95) article can be made similar to the existing Interstate 5 article only it parallels from the Eastern Seaboard, it goes from the Canadian border in Houlton, Maine to Miami, Florida. It replaces US Highway 1 (which is still there) when the interstate highways were built. This can also be appended to the existing US Highway 1 article or as a new article, whichever way would make it easier to read and edit.
Amtrak Coast Starlight Train (w:Coast Starlight) runs once daily from Seattle to Los Angeles and vice versa. There is already an existing Amtrak Cascades article which lists the stations served by the Amtrak Cascades from Vancouver BC to Eugene OR. The Amtrak Coast Starlight runs concurrent with the Cascades from Seattle to Eugene with the same stops, except Tukwila, WA and Oregon City. The Coast Starlight continues towards Los Angeles from Eugene OR via Chemult and Klamath Falls, Oregon (also listed in the Cascaades article) before crossing into California. In California the Coast Starlight runs concurrent with the Capitol Corridor to San Jose and with the San Jaoquins trains to Oakland from Sacramento; and with the Pacific Surfliner train from San Luis Obisbo to Los Angeles with the same stops.  The other Amtrak California trains make more stops, on a more frequent schedule, than the Coast Starlight along the shared route. The Pacific Surfliner train continues this route from Los Angeles to San Diego. Locally, it also share the same route with Sound Transit's Sounder commuter train from Everett WA to Seattle to Lakewood, WA in Washington State; from Oxnard, CA to Oceanside (via Los Angeles) with Metrolink; and the Coaster train connecting Oceanside to San Diego in southern California. Therefore, this new article can be done by adding upon the existing Amtrak Cascades article by changing the title, headers and pictures; change some of the wording to include information about train travel in California, and list out the California stations from Dunsmuir, CA to Los Angeles or to San Diego which would include the other Amtrak California trains running along the shared segments of the route as well.
Interstate 90 (w:Interstate 90 and w:Yellowstone Trail ) The longest transcontinental interstate highway spanning from Seattle to Boston through Washington, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and Massachusetts. There is a discussion in the discussion page of the Mountains to Sound Greenway article as to whether to rename and convert that article into "I-90". I-90/94 follow the old Yellowstone Auto Trail that predated the US Highway system of 1926.
Routes to the Klondike (w:Klondike_Gold_Rush#Routes_to_the_Klondike) in the footsteps of w:Scrooge McDuck and others who wanted to get rich by digging gold at the turn of the century.
Oceania[edit]
Australia the Film - in the tracks of Baz Luhrmann's film
Heysen Trail — Long-distance walking trail in South Australia, stretching over 1000 km from the Flinders Ranges to Cape Jervis on the southern tip of the Fleurieu Peninsula.
Marianas Trench - I know this sounds like trolling but there are ways to get there by tourists. Here are a few articles: The Daily Mail, CNN travel, World Record Academy. You can get there via a boat from Guam, and use a submarine to explore.
Several New Zealand Great Walks. Namely, the ones that don't have an article include Abel Tasman Coast Track, Lake Waikaremoana Track, Paparoa Track, Tongariro Northern Circuit and Whanganui Journey. I might start some of them, but could do with some help. --SHB2000 (talk | contribs | meta.wikimedia) 08:01, 4 August 2022 (UTC)Reply[reply]
South America[edit]
On the trail of Che Guevara
What is meant by that? His route through South America as a twenty-something or something after he had been to Cuba? Hobbitschuster (talk) 12:27, 30 May 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
This would likely be an itinerary of the book The Motorcycle Diaries. --Andrewssi2 (talk) 02:30, 21 April 2016 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Trans-Amazonian Highway
Central America[edit]
Central America by bike - lots of people seem to tour all or part of Central America by bike. This article could focus on the "obvious" route mostly along Carreterra Panamericana, but also suggest deviations, side trips or alternative routes. Information on whether to bring or buy a bike and the potential resale value as well as the availability of competent repair personnel and spare parts would also be much appreciated. Information on which roads to avoid and how to behave in traffic as well as legalities and practicalities on border crossing and ferry trips can't do no harm either
Intercontinental[edit]
International Appalachian Trail - extension of the U.S. Appalachian Trail into Canada, Greenland, and Scotland, with further extensions proposed for elsewhere in Western Europe and North Africa. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 15:32, 22 August 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
All-Red Route, a trip circling the globe entirely via current or former British Empire and Commonwealth nations. According to w:All-Red Route, "The major All-Red Route ran Southern Britain → Gibraltar → Malta → Alexandria → Port Said → Suez Canal → Aden → Muscat → India → Sri Lanka → Burma → Malaya → Singapore" continuing "towards Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, and other British colonies." Closing the loop Australia → New Zealand → British Columbia (and across Canada by train or Trans-Canada Highway) → Newfoundland → Ireland/UK could create an Empire-themed historical world tour. Compare Around the World in Eighty Days.
Mongol Rally - alternatively a travel topic. Sounds more interesting than your average rich people in fancy cars racing through the mud kind of rally. See Wikipedia for some of the background.
Sailing around the world/Circumnavigation. Cruising on small craft has information on what kind of craft and equipment you need, Hitchhiking boats says something about typical routes, as do some Wikipedia articles (Circumnavigation, Clipper route, ...) and Around the world overland may also have some information. See also Magellan-Elcano circumnavigation.
I've redirected these suggestions to Magellan-Elcano circumnavigation. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk about my contributions) 21:21, 9 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
...which is no use to anyone looking for info on how to make the trip today. K7L (talk) 22:26, 9 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
...Except that it gets them around the world. --Comment by  Selfie City (talk about my contributions) 23:00, 9 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Not with their own vessel. The article only says that would be the most authentic way. I said in the edit summary when reverting the removal of this entry: "None of the suggested articles covers the suggested topic". The Elcano article does not even say whether the route is feasible or whether the waypoints are reachable by boat today, much less to what extent it is the route modern yachts take. --LPfi (talk) 08:00, 10 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I've changed the redirects to go to Cruising on small craft and Around the world overland. —Granger (talk · contribs) 08:20, 10 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
I'm pretty sure most sailors that go around the globe don't try to replicate Magellan's and Elcano's voyage exactly but instead want to take a more optimal route and/or visit more places on the beaten path. Likewise, I believe most travelers interested in this trip lack the time, skills and/or resources to travel it by sailing boat. Therefore: it's not the right article to redirect circumnavigation to. Round the world overland is a much better alternative, although circumnavigation could certainly merit its own article if we eventually get a contributor that knows about the subject (long distance sailing is not that uncommon). --ϒpsilon (talk) 11:58, 10 September 2018 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Journeys of Harry Söderman; Swedish adventurer who travelled through Asia in the interwar years, led the Norwegian resistance during World War II, and went on to found the post-war police force of Sweden, Norway and West Germany
Voyages of St. Francis Xavier
Journeys of Tom Scott (mostly UK)
Journeys of Alexander von Humboldt
Journeys of Saint Brendan Irish monk who may have reached Newfoundland several hundred years before the Vikings. See w:Brendan the Navigator. w:Tim Severin duplicated the voyage in the 20th century, in a leather boat similar to Brendan's. Pashley (talk) 15:55, 5 August 2023 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Phrasebooks[edit]
See Wikivoyage:Requests for phrasebooks
Project pages[edit]
Wikivoyage:Cooperating with other language versions of Wikivoyage - there's some brief, bare-bones guidelines at Wikivoyage:Policies#Other language Wikivoyage projects, but IMO we're long overdue to flesh them out and give the topic its own project page. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 23:47, 23 April 2015 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Wikivoyage:Travel topics redlinks, but should be a help page like Wikivoyage:Itineraries. Wikivoyage:Namespace index lists a few project pages like this which don't exist but are proposed.
Travel topics are probably too heterogeneous and freeform in structure for a one-size-fits-all help page to be of much use. -- AndreCarrotflower (talk) 17:15, 9 January 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
It could at least give pointers. We do have guidelines that affect travel topics, and one could give good examples in different categories as inspiration. --LPfi (talk) 11:44, 6 February 2017 (UTC)Reply[reply]
The use of mw:Extension:Kartographer (and the associated templates) in Wikivoyage needs to be standardised and documented properly. mw:Help:Extension:Kartographer assumes the extension will be called directly (without the module and templates) and Wikivoyage:How to use dynamic maps#Adding boundaries and tracks is largely left-over documentation from the old {{GPX}} system which needs to be fully rewritten.
It may also make sense to split often-used basic concepts (how to use {{mapframe}}, {{listing}} and {{marker}}) to a different help page than the advanced details of drawing boundaries, paths, {{mapshape}}s and the like - which are used comparatively infrequently.
Wikivoyage:Using Wikidata lacks a proper help page; as existing documentation is being patched piecemeal to replace documentation of mw:Extension:RelatedSites links with Wikidata links, the user is being directed to Wikivoyage:Cooperating with Wikidata which is not a help page and clearly states "This page is an incubator for ideas on how to work with Wikidata. This is not a policy document."
Retrieved from "https://en.wikivoyage.org/w/index.php?title=Wikivoyage:Requested_articles&oldid=4720167"
Category: Wikivoyage collaboration
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Project pageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEdit sourceView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageTravel destinationsStar articlesWhat's Nearby?Tourist officeRandom page
Get involved
Travellers' pubRecent changesCommunity portalMaintenance panelPoliciesHelpInterlingual loungeDonate
Tools
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
WikispeciesWikibooksWikinewsWikipediaWikiquoteWikisourceWikiversityWiktionary
In other languages
বাংলাEspañolفارسیSuomiFrançaisעברית日本語PortuguêsSvenska中文
Edit links
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikivoyage
Disclaimer
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement