BIM Performance Measurement Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
BIM Performance Measurement16,804 FollowersRecent papers in BIM Performance MeasurementTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeople301in.DE BIM Reifegrad MatrixBIM Excellence ist ein forschungs-basierter Ansatz, um die Leistungsfähigkeit einzelner Personen, Organisationen und Projektteams zu bewerten und zu verbessern. Die BIMe Initiative organisiert alle Forschungsaktivitäten in Knowledge Sets,... moreBIM Excellence ist ein forschungs-basierter Ansatz, um die Leistungsfähigkeit einzelner Personen, Organisationen und Projektteams zu bewerten und zu verbessern. Die BIMe Initiative organisiert alle Forschungsaktivitäten in Knowledge Sets, welche durch ein Internationales Forschungsnetzwerk entwickelt wurden. Das BIm³ besitzt zwei Achsen - BIM Fähigkeiten Sets und den BIM Reifegrad Index. Um von BIm³ zu profitieren, ist es zuerst wichtig, die Konzepte der BIM Fähigkeiten und BIM Reifegrade zu überblickenSave to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  13  Construction Technology, Construction Management, Lean Construction, BIM (Architecture)Macro-BIM adoption: Conceptual structuresBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) concepts and workflows continue to proliferate within organisations, through project teams, and across the whole construction industry. However, both BIM implementation and BIM diffusion are yet to be... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) concepts and workflows continue to proliferate within organisations, through project teams, and across the whole construction industry. However, both BIM implementation and BIM diffusion are yet to be reliably assessed at market scale. Insufficient research has been conducted to date towards identifying the conceptual structures that would explain and encourage large-scale BIM adoption. This paper introduces a number of macro-adoption models, matrices and charts (Fig. 1). These models can be used to systematically assess BIM adoption across markets, and inform the structured development of country-specific BIM adoption policies.This research is published in two complementary papers combining conceptual structures with data collected from experts across a number of countries. The first paper “Macro-BIM adoption: conceptual structures” delimits the terms used, reviews applicable diffusion models, and clarifies the research methodology. It then introduces five new conceptual constructs for assessing macro-BIM adoption and informing the development of market-scale BIM diffusion policies. The second paper “Macro-BIM adoption: comparative market analysis” employs these concepts and tools to evaluate BIM adoption and analyse BIM diffusion policies across a number of countries. Using online questionnaires and structured interviews, it applies the models, refines the conceptual tools and develops additional assessment metrics. The two papers are complementary and primarily intended to assist policy makers and domain researchers to analyse, develop and improve BIM diffusion policies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  32  Assessment, Performance Studies, Diffusion of Innovations, Performance ManagementBuilding Information Modelling framework: a research and delivery foundation for industry stakeholdersBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Architecture, Engineering, Construction and Operations (AECO) industry. To allow a systematic investigation of BIM'sdivergent fields, its knowledge... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Architecture, Engineering, Construction and Operations (AECO) industry. To allow a systematic investigation of BIM'sdivergent fields, its knowledge components must be defined and expanding boundaries delineated. This paper explores some of the publicly available international guidelines and introduces the BIM Framework, aresearch and delivery foundation for industry stakeholders. This is a ‘scene-setting’ paper identifying many conceptual parts (fields, stages, steps and lenses), providing examples of their application and listing some of the Framework's deliverables. This paper also identifies and deploys visual knowledge models and a specialised ontology to represent domain concepts and their relations.Succar, B. (2009). Building information modelling framework: A research and delivery foundation for industry stakeholders. Automation in Construction, 18(3), 357-375.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  6  BIM (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM/IPD Specialists, Assessment of Building Information Modeling (BIM) Performance in architecture, engineering, and construction firms/industryCritical Success Factors for  Application of BIM for  Singapore Architectural FirmsSave to LibraryDownloadby Thant Zin•  9  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Bim, BIM EducationThe Five Components of BIM Performance MeasurementBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Design, Construction and Operation (DCO) industry . The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can be met through a... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Design, Construction and Operation (DCO) industry . The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can be met through a systematic research and delivery framework spawning a set of performance assessment and improvement metrics. This paper identifies five complementary components specifically developed to enable such assessment: [1] BIM Capability Stages representing transformational milestones along the implementation continuum [2] BIM Maturity Levels representing the quality, predictability and variability within BIM Stages, [3] BIM Competencies representing incremental progressions towards and improvements within BIM Stages, [4] Organisational Scales representing the diversity of markets, disciplines and company sizes and [5] Granularity Levels enabling highly-targeted yet flexible performance analyses ranging from informal self-assessment to high-detail, formal organisational audits. This paper explores these complementary components and positions them as a systematic method to understand BIM performance and to enable its assessment and improvement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  8  BIM (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM/IPD Specialists, Assessment of Building Information Modeling (BIM) Performance in architecture, engineering, and construction firms/industryBuilding Information Modeling: analyzing noteworthy publications of eight countries using a knowledge content taxonomyBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) tools and workflows have the potential to significantly improve the efficiency of design, construction and operation activities. Numerous BIM deliverables and their respective requirements have been... moreBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) tools and workflows have the potential to significantly improve the efficiency of design, construction and operation activities. Numerous BIM deliverables and their respective requirements have been widely discussed by industry stakeholders. This is evidenced by the intensity of online communications surrounding BIM topics and the accelerating availability of noteworthy BIM publications (NBP)s. NBPs are publically-available industry documents incorporating guidelines, protocols and requirements focusing on BIM deliverables and workflows. These publications are the product of various governmental bodies, industry associations, communities of practice and research institutions, intended to facilitate BIM adoption, and realize BIM’s value-adding potential. A specialized taxonomy is employed to analyze 57 noteworthy BIM publications from across eight countries selected for their active BIM scene. The BIM knowledge content (BKC) taxonomy includes three knowledge content clusters (guides, protocols and mandates) subdivided into 18 knowledge content labels (e.g. report, manual, and contract). Ten of these content labels are used to analyze and compare publications from Australia, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Preliminary content analysis is then performed which provides insight into the availability and distribution of BIM knowledge within noteworthy BIM publications. The analysis identifies knowledge gaps within publications and highlights opportunities for future research and complementary publication efforts. This chapter contributes to organizing BIM knowledge as contained within numerous noteworthy BIM publications and – by that - facilitates targeted access to their content. It provides a knowledge repository for construction industry stakeholder’s to utilize during BIM implementation and a research base for investigators seeking to identify and address knowledge gaps across the BIM domain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  23  Knowledge Management, Knowledge Models, Construction Technology, Construction ManagementMeasuring BIM performance: Five metricsThe term Building Information Modelling (BIM) refers to an expansive knowledge domain within the design, construction and operation (DCO) industry. The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can... moreThe term Building Information Modelling (BIM) refers to an expansive knowledge domain within the design, construction and operation (DCO) industry. The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can be met through a systematic research and delivery framework spawning a set of performance assessment and improvement metrics. This article identifies five complementary components specifically developed to enable such assessment: (i) BIM capability stages representing transformational milestones along the implementation continuum; (ii) BIM maturity levels representing the quality, predictability and variability within BIM stages; (iii) BIM competencies representing incremental progressions towards and improvements within BIM stages; (iv) Organizational Scales representing the diversity of markets, disciplines and company sizes; and (v) Granularity Levels enabling highly targeted yet flexible performance analyses ranging from informal self-assessment to high-detail, formal organizational audits. This article explores these complementary components and positions them as a systematic method to understand BIM performance and to enable its assessment and improvement. A flowchart of the contents of this article is provided.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Willy Sher•  27  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), InteroperabilityBuilding Information Modelling: conceptual constructs and performance improvement tools (PhD Thesis)Building Information Modelling (BIM) is a set of technologies, processes and policies enabling multiple stakeholders to collaboratively design, construct and operate a facility. There are numerous challenges attributed to BIM adoption by... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a set of technologies, processes and policies enabling multiple stakeholders to collaboratively design, construct and operate a facility.There are numerous challenges attributed to BIM adoption by industry and academia. These represent a number of knowledge gaps each warranting a focused investigation by domain researchers. This study does not isolate a single gap to address but espouses a holistic view of the knowledge problem at hand. It contributes to the discussion a set of conceptual constructs that clarify the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain. It also introduces a number of practicable knowledge tools to facilitate BIM learning, assessment and performance improvement. This study is delivered through complementary papers and appendices to answer two primary research questions. The first explores the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain whilst the second probes how these knowledge structures can be used to facilitate the measurement and improvement of BIM performance across the construction industry.To address the first question, the study identifies conceptual clusters underlying the BIM domain, develops descriptive taxonomies of these clusters, exposes some of their conceptual relationships, and then delivers a representative BIM framework. The BIM framework is composed of three-axes which represent the main knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain and support the development of functional conceptual models.To address the second question, BIM framework structures are extended through additional concepts and tools to facilitate BIM performance assessment and development of individuals, organizations and teams. These additional concepts include competency sets, assessment workflows and measurement tools which can be used to assess and improve the BIM performance of industry stakeholders.In addressing these research questions, a pragmatic approach to research design based on available literature and applicable theories has been adopted. By combining several research strategies, paradigms and methods, this study (1) generates several new conceptual structures (e.g. frameworks, models and taxonomies) which collectively clarify the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain; and (2) develops a set of workflows and tools that facilitate BIM assessment, learning and performance improvement.This study delivers an extendable knowledge structure upon which to build a host of BIM performance improvement initiatives and tools. As a set of complementary papers and appendices, the study presents a rich, unified yet multi-layered environment of conceptual constructs and practicable tools; supported by a common framework, a domain ontology and simplified visual representations. Individually, each paper introduces a new framework part or solidifies a previous one. Collectively, the papers form a cohesive knowledge engine that generates assessment systems, learning modules and performance improvement tools.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Willy Sher•  27  Management Information Systems, Knowledge Models, Construction Management, Performance Based Assessment (Education)Building Information Modeling—Enabled Construction Safety Culture and Maturity Model: A Grounded Theory ApproachSave to LibraryDownloadby Abimbola Windapo•  17  Safety Engineering, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementEnhanced Building Information Models Using IoT Services and Integration PatternsThis book explains how to combine and exploit sensor networks and internet-of-things (IoT) technologies and Web-service design patterns to enrich and integrate Building Information Models (BIMs). It provides approaches and software... moreThis book explains how to combine and exploit sensor networks and internet-of-things (IoT) technologies and Web-service design patterns to enrich and integrate Building Information Models (BIMs). It provides approaches and software architectures for facilitating the interaction with (and between) BIMs through Web services, and for enabling and facilitating the fusion of the information residing in such models or of information acquired from IoT technologies. The proposed software architectures are presented in the form of design patterns. This information fusion will facilitate many novel application fields ranging from emergency response, to urban monitoring and surveillance, and to smart buildings.The book consists of 8 chapters. The first 2 chapters focus on the basics of BIMs, while chapter 3 presents fundamental service-oriented architecture patterns for complex information models. Subsequently, chapters 4 and 5 elaborate on the hardware and software side of IoT, with a special focus on their use for BIMs. Chapter 6 provides advanced SOA patterns for BIMs, while chapter 7 details patterns for IoT, and for BIM and IoT information fusion. Lastly, chapter 8 summarizes the work and provides an outlook on promising future developments.Overall, the book will be beneficial for researchers and developers in the fields of building information models, IoT applications, and systems integration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ümit Işıkdağ•  4  BIM (Architecture), BIM-technology, BIM Performance Measurement, Internet of Things (IoT)Building Information Modeling—Enabled Construction Safety Culture and Maturity Model: A Grounded Theory ApproachSave to LibraryDownloadby oluseye olugboyega•  17  Safety Engineering, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementAn Impact of Wideband Speech Codec Mismatch on a Performance of GMM-UBM Speaker Verification over Telecommunication Channel— An automatic verification of person's identity from its voice is a part of modern telecommunication services. In order to execute a verification task, a speech signal has to be transmitted to a remote server. So, a performance of the... more— An automatic verification of person's identity from its voice is a part of modern telecommunication services. In order to execute a verification task, a speech signal has to be transmitted to a remote server. So, a performance of the verification system can be influenced by various distortions that can occur when transmitting a speech signal through a communication channel. This paper studies an effect of the state of art wideband (WB) speech codecs on a performance of automatic speaker verification in the context of a channel/codec mismatch between enrollment and test utterances. The speaker verification system is developed on GMM-UBM method. The results show that EVS codec provides the best performance over all the investigated scenarios in this study. Moreover, deploying G.729.1 codec in a training process of the verification system provides the best equal error rate in the fully-codec mismatched scenario. Anyhow, differences between the equal error rates reported for all of the codecs involved in this scenario are mostly nonsignificant.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Pocta•  32  Telecommunications Engineering, Computer Science, Human Computer Interaction, ForensicsIndoor Air-Temperature Forecast for Energy-Efficient Management in Smart BuildingsIn the last few years, the reduction of energy consumption and pollution became mandatory. It became also a common goal of many countries. Only in Europe, the building sector is responsible for the total 40% of energy consumption and 36%... moreIn the last few years, the reduction of energy consumption and pollution became mandatory. It became also a common goal of many countries. Only in Europe, the building sector is responsible for the total 40% of energy consumption and 36% of CO2 pollution. Therefore, new control policies based on the forecast of buildings energy behaviors can be developed to reduce energy waste (i.e. policies for Demand Response and Demand Side Management). This paper discusses an innovative methodology for smart building indoor air-temperature forecasting. This methodology is based on a Non-linear Autoregressive neural network. This neural network has been trained and validated with a dataset consisting of six years indoor air-temperature values of a building demonstrator. In detail, we have studied three characterizing rooms and the whole building. Experimental results of energy prediction are presented and discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giansalvo Cirrincione•  19  Forecasting, Building Information Modeling, Forecasting and Prediction Tools, Demand ResponsePerformance Evaluation of the Design Process Management Practices: The VDC Scorecard and Some Brazilian Case StudiesThe VDC Scorecard is a method for assessing the maturity of collaborative use of Virtual Design and Construction/Building Information Modeling (VDC/BIM) practices of the AEC industry. Its reasoning is based on the use of multidisciplinary... moreThe VDC Scorecard is a method for assessing the maturity of collaborative use of Virtual Design and Construction/Building Information Modeling (VDC/BIM) practices of the AEC industry. Its reasoning is based on the use of multidisciplinary models for holistic analysis of the performance of products, organization and processes and social methods to achieve business objectives. The VDC Scorecard was created to provide AEC professionals with a holistic, quantitative, practical and adaptive approach to evaluate and track the VDC/BIM performance. The scoring covers the four major Areas of VDC, Planning, Adoption, Technology and Performance, and the overall score is measured on a percentage scale that reflects the project performance relative to the industry’s practice. However, in many countries the VDC/BIM practices are in a not so fast dissemination and they are in need of appropriate methods for measuring and process performance analysis that address the peculiarities of a national or ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergio Scheer•  6  Building Information Modeling, BIM Performance Measurement, Virtual Design and Construction, BIM MaturityImproving the accuracy of BIM-based quantity takeoff for compound elementsQuantity takeoff based on Building Information Modeling (BIM) is a faster and more reliable method than the traditional 2D-based quantity takeoff approach. However, the quality of BIM models affects the accuracy of the extracted... moreQuantity takeoff based on Building Information Modeling (BIM) is a faster and more reliable method than the traditional 2D-based quantity takeoff approach. However, the quality of BIM models affects the accuracy of the extracted quantities. Incomplete details and inappropriate modeling methods cause deviations in extracted quantities. Compound elements, such as walls and floors, always face this issue because they contain multiple material layers, which can have different sizes. In order to obtain accurate quantity takeoffs of these layers, each compound element layer that is composed of a core layer and other layers must be created according to the actual construction. Nevertheless, this is a time-consuming and error-prone solution. Furthermore, it can be difficult to edit a model in the future if its design is not finalized. This study proposes a method to improve the accuracy of the extracted quantities of compound elements from BIM models that are incomplete or incorrect by using information from BIM-based clash detection to eliminate excess quantities and add missing quantities. The proposed method is called the “BIM-based compound element quantity takeoff improvement” (BCEQTI) method. The BCEQTI method is then validated through four case studies. With this method, accurate material quantities can be delivered, and the time used to edit the BIM models is saved. Furthermore, it can be applied to other building elements that have similar issues.Save to LibraryDownloadby Chavanont Khosakitchalert•  9  Quantity Surveying, BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)Aligning Project Requirements with Team Capabilities (slides with notes)Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  11  Construction Project Management, Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Competency MappingTable of Contents ---Current issue-- September 2018, Volume 09, Number 4/5The purpose of this paper is to investigate the e-commerce credibility factors affecting the perception of users in Saudi Arabia and, moreover, to investigate whether the variation of credibility factors in Saudi Arabian e-commerce... moreThe purpose of this paper is to investigate the e-commerce credibility factors affecting the perception ofusers in Saudi Arabia and, moreover, to investigate whether the variation of credibility factors in SaudiArabian e-commerce websites influence users' performance. Website credibility, which refers to thebelievability of the website and its content, plays an important role in consumers’ successful onlineshopping experience and satisfaction. This investigation is conducted by employing two credibilityevaluation methods: heuristic evaluation and performance measurement. This study adopts Fogg's 10Stanford credibility guidelines as a starting point for the heuristic evaluation. In the performancemeasurement method, two measurements are used: the amount of time needed to finish the task and thetotal number of clicks taken to finish the task. A frequency analysis of the comments and a one-way ANOVAtest are used to establish the results. Three e-commerce websites in Saudi Arabia are selected. The findingsshow that Fogg’s 10 Stanford credibility guidelines can be implemented in the Saudi Arabian e-commercecontext with minor modifications and expansions by adding reputation, endorsement, security, and servicediversity guidelines. Another important finding is that professional website design plays a vital role inusers' first impression of websites, while usability is the most important credibility factor investigated usedto evaluate the credulity of an e-commerce website. Lastly, the results of this study indicate a relationshipbetween the e-commerce credibility level and users’ performance. This paper contributes to the literatureby providing a set of credibility guidelines associated with specific criteria, which can be assessed toimprove the future of e-commerce in Saudi Arabia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Advanced Computing: An International Journal ( ACIJ )•  19  Grid Computing, High Performance Computing, Data Mining, Performance MeasurementSinergia entre BIM y last planner system para la eficiente integración contratista-subcontratista en la etapa de equipamiento de sótanos en un proyecto de edificaciónEl presente proyecto de investigación consta de tres partes importantes. La primera, el Marco Teórico, es el producto de una extensa revisión de la literatura existente que contempla los temas de: Gestión de la Cadena de Abastecimiento,... moreEl presente proyecto de investigación consta de tres partes importantes. La primera, el Marco Teórico, es el producto de una extensa revisión de la literatura existente que contempla los temas de: Gestión de la Cadena de Abastecimiento, Last Planner System y Building Information Modelling. Este capítulo tiene la finalidad de abarcar y definir todos los conceptos a utilizar en el desarrollo de la investigación. Mediante la segunda parte, Diagnóstico de la Situación Actual, se realizó un estudio de la situación actual de la industria en un entorno geográfico limitado como es la ciudad de Lima. En él se efectúo la recopilación de información en distintos proyectos de edificaciones a través de encuestas que evaluaron aspectos generales del nivel de gestión e industrialización, contratos y diagnóstico de la procura. Los datos recopilados fueron analizados y comparados entre ellos para comprobar la existencia de tendencias observables entre los tipos de proyectos y la magnitud de empresas a las que pertenecían. Finalmente, en la tercera parte se analiza un caso de estudio, el cual propone la implementación adecuada de LPS, en colaboración con las herramientas BIM. Mediante este, se busca comprender la sinergia entre estas dos filosofías y la manera en la que pueden aportar a la ejecución de la etapa de acabados y equipamiento de un proyecto de edificaciones. En virtud del análisis concedido en los párrafos precedentes, este proyecto de investigación propone generar una iniciativa para el aprovechamiento de nuevas tecnologías dentro de la industria de la construcción con el fin de agregar valor al proyecto. Asimismo, busca fomentar un cambio de paradigmas para los distintos subcontratistas y contratistas generales en aras de alcanzar una mejora sustancial para la industria de la construcción en el rubro de edificaciones. La memoria descriptiva está conformada de la siguiente manera: Capítulo 1: Introducción, Capítulo 2: Marco teórico, Capítulo 3: Diagnóstico de la situación actual, Capítulo 4: Caso de estudio – Madre, Capítulo 5: Conclusiones y recomendaciones.Save to LibraryDownloadby Edson Santiago  Becker•  13  Civil Engineering, Construction Technology, Construction Management, Lean ConstructionA life cycle approach - BS 8544 life cycle costing of maintenanceBS 8544 provides an overview of the use of life cycle costing of maintenance during occupation of buildings. It links with ISO 15686 and other UK guidance on maintenance. It provides standardised rules, guidance on data capture and... moreBS 8544 provides an overview of the use of life cycle costing of maintenance during occupation of buildings. It links with ISO 15686 and other UK guidance on maintenance. It provides standardised rules, guidance on data capture and evaluation and prioritisation of expenditure.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kathryn Bourke•  11  BIM (Architecture), Facility Management, Facilities Management, Building Maintenance Management34 4D PLANNING AND SCHEDULING (4DPS): GROUNDING CONSTRUCTION IT RESEARCH IN INDUSTRY PRACTICESave to LibraryDownloadby Luis Alarcón•  105  Civil Engineering, Russian Studies, Information Technology, Research Methodology301in BIM Maturity MatrixThe BIM Maturity Matrix (BIm³) is intended for low-detail self-assessment of organisations and project teams. The BIm³ has two axes-BIM Capability Sets and the BIM Maturity Index. This document is released as part of the BIMe under... moreThe BIM Maturity Matrix (BIm³) is intended for low-detail self-assessment of organisations and project teams. The BIm³ has two axes-BIM Capability Sets and the BIM Maturity Index. This document is released as part of the BIMe under Creative Commons.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  12  Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementBuilding information modelling framework: A research and delivery foundation for industry stakeholdersSave to LibraryDownloadby Hishyar Mohammed•  18  Engineering, Architecture, Visualization, Project ManagementTrends of Assessing BIM Implementation in Construction ResearchSave to LibraryDownloadby Hamid Abdirad•  17  BIM (Architecture), Metrics, Building Information Modeling, BIM/IPD Specialists"Building Information Modeling BIM as a Development tool for the Management of Construction Projects"Despite the tremendous development in the field of digital technology that produced the software and techniques influenced in the field of architecture and construction, and thus the production of architectural and urban, which is... moreDespite the tremendous development in the field of digital technology that produced the software and techniques influenced in the field of architecture and construction, and thus the production of architectural and urban, which is imperative that we keep up with this development, and employment and continuation of the same efficiency in all phases of the project will bridge the gap between design and implementation phase, and the most important of these techniques the use of Building Information Modeling (BIM), it is a Database, Not just 3D Drawings, it refers to a digital collection of software applications designed to facilitate coordination and project collaboration, BIM has the potential to provide more efficient operation, not only as part of design and construction but also in operations and maintenance. Accuracy is another main reason. BIM appears to offer greater accuracy than what our current practices produce. This paper aims to determine the benefits of integrating BIM technique in project management and recognize the role they play in The construction industry and practical feasibility of it compared to the previous systems, the practical study depended on two parts, the first by carrying out structured questionnaire survey from construction industry' experts. The second is a case study. The paper is concluded with some important results. It seeks to show that the BIM systems improve communication, collaboration, higher-quality project decision making, and more comprehensive planning and scheduling. In the end, we should see better quality, plus increases in productivity and profitability.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hayam M . Omayer•  20  Project Management, Sustainable Building Design, BIM (Architecture), Project Risk ManagementBuilding Information Modelling Maturity Matrix "This chapter briefly explores the multi-dimensional nature of the BIM domain and then introduces a knowledge tool to assist individuals, organisations and project teams to assess their BIM maturity and improve their performance. The... more"This chapter briefly explores the multi-dimensional nature of the BIM domain and then introduces a knowledge tool to assist individuals, organisations and project teams to assess their BIM maturity and improve their performance. The first section introduces BIM Fields and Stages which lay the foundations for measuring maturity. Section 2 introduces BIM Steps – organised in ‘sets’ and ‘types’ – which incrementally separate BIM Stages and act as Key Maturity Areas within them. Section 3 introduces an Organisational Hierarchy which identifies granular scales for applying maturity assessments within the industry. Section 4 explores the concepts of ‘capability maturity’ and adopts a five-level BIM-specific maturity index. Finally, Section 5 introduces the BIM Maturity Matrix (BIm³), a knowledge tool that describes the range of and correlation between BIM Stages, Steps, Maturity Levels and Organisational Scales. SUCCAR, B. (2010) Building Information Modelling Maturity Matrix. IN UNDERWOOD, J. & ISIKDAG, U. (Eds.) Handbook of Research on Building Information Modelling and Construction Informatics: Concepts and Technologies. Information Science Reference, IGI Publishing. (http://www.igi-global.com/Bookstore/Chapter.aspx?TitleId=39468)"Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  24  Building Information Modeling, Interoperability, Bim, Assessment of Building Information Modeling (BIM) Performance in architecture, engineering, and construction firms/industryAn integrated approach to BIM competency assessment, acquisition and applicationProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to... moreProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to develop their BIM abilities, it is important to identify the BIM competencies that need to be learned, applied on the job, and measured for the purposes of performance improvement. Expanding upon previous research, this paper focuses on individual BIM competencies, the building blocks of organisational capability. The paper first introduces several taxonomies and conceptual models to clarify how individual competencies may be filtered, classified, and aggregated into a seed competency inventory. Competency items are then fed into a specialised knowledge engine to generate flexible assessment tools, learning modules and process workflows. Finally, the paper discusses the many benefits this competency-based approach brings to industry and academia, and ex...Save to LibraryDownloadby Tony Williams•  20  Engineering, Building Information Modeling, Bim, BIM EducationInformation Management in Construction - The need for more responsive roles- Building Information modelling is transforming the roles and responsibilities of professionals who design, deliver, operate, and maintain all types of buildings, structures and whole cities. - The flow of digital information has many... more- Building Information modelling is transforming the roles and responsibilities of professionals who design, deliver, operate, and maintain all types of buildings, structures and whole cities.- The flow of digital information has many repercussions and are affecting how project teams are formed, how they communicate with each other, and how they deliver their services and products.- Projects are increasingly procured with comprehensive – but often unclear - information requirements. Project teams are required to respond to multiple local and international standards, complex data exchange scenarios, and a wide-range of ad-hoc collaboration workflows.- It is no longer valid to treat roles as a static set of responsibilities or to develop new roles that cannot respond to rapid digitisation, automation and standardisation.- With digital transformation, what one ‘traditional’ role was assigned to do in the past, can now be better played by a new specialised role. And what another traditional role was assigned to do, will soon be played – significantly better - by artificial intelligence.- Defining a role through formal one-off qualification is no longer enough; also, gaining recognition through industry certification is losing relevance. Both qualification and certification are inherently slow to adapt to rapid change. Every definition of a BIM Manager - or even a Project Manager - which has been drafted five years ago, must be re-written this year. What will be defined this year must be redefined within three years; and so on. When it comes to roles – project roles in particular - and their responsibilities, the pace of change is unforgiving.- Therefore, there’s a dire need to develop digital-transformation-ready roles that are able to respond to rapid change, and to meet the evolving information management requirements of construction projects.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  15  Information Technology, Management Information Systems, Information Management, AssessmentESTUDIO DE COSTOS RELACIONADOS CON LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN DE METODOLOGÍAS BIM INFORME FINALESTUDIO DE COSTOS RELACIONADOS CON LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN DE METODOLOGÍAS BIMSave to LibraryDownloadby JAVIER EDUARDO VALLEJOS•  3  Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM Performance MeasurementAn integrated approach to BIM competency assessment, acquisition and applicationProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to... moreProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to develop their BIM abilities, it is important to identify the BIM competencies that need to be learned, applied on the job, and measured for the purposes of performance improvement. Expanding upon previous research, this paper focuses on individual BIM competencies, the building blocks of organisational capability. The paper first introduces several taxonomies and conceptual models to clarify how individual competencies may be filtered, classified, and aggregated into a seed competency inventory. Competency items are then fed into a specialised knowledge engine to generate flexible assessment tools, learning modules and process workflows. Finally, the paper discusses the many benefits this competency-based approach brings to industry and academia, and explores future conceptual and tool development efforts to enable industry-wide BIM performance assessment and improvement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +2Willy SherAnthony P Williams•  29  Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Interoperability, Bim301in.FR La Matrice de Maturité BIMLa Matrice de Maturité BIM (BIm3) est un Outil de Connaissance servant à l'identification de la maturité actuelle d'une organisation ou d'une équipe de projet. La BIm3 a deux axes – Ensembles de Capacité BIM et l'Index de Maturité BIM.... moreLa Matrice de Maturité BIM (BIm3) est un Outil de Connaissance servant à l'identification de la maturité actuelle d'une organisation ou d'une équipe de projet. La BIm3 a deux axes – Ensembles de Capacité BIM et l'Index de Maturité BIM.Cette version française a été traduite par Patrick Riedo d’Objectif BIM.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  14  Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementAUTOMATED CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS MONITORING USING THERMAL IMAGES AND WIRELESS SENSOR NETWORKSConstruction progress monitoring has been perceived as one of the key factors that prompt the achievement of a construction project. However, assessing the progress is time consuming, costly and obliges specialized personnel to reduce... moreConstruction progress monitoring has been perceived as one of the key factors that prompt the achievement of a construction project. However, assessing the progress is time consuming, costly and obliges specialized personnel to reduce disagreements and approximate the actual performance to the original plan as close as possible. Image processing is a promising method that has been developed for automated monitoring of construction projects. It has attracted increasing attention for progress monitoring, quality assurance and work space analyses. Nonetheless, remarkable drawbacks still remain in image processing, particularly for outdoor environment such as construction progress monitoring. The principle downside of image processing goes back to the image resolution. Ambient lightning condition significantly affects the image quality which does affect the accuracy of data, extracted from related images. Much research strives to reduce the level of errors for data extraction but so far none has been able to deliver complete satisfactory and reliable result. In this research a novel approach based on thermal image analysis is presented. The new method consists of three phases: First, collecting the thermal and original images by utilizing Infrared-Camera. Second, estimating the position of captured images by the use of wireless sensor network implemented in the work space. Finally, the 3D plan will be updated automatically in the Building Information Modeling (BIM) software. The preliminary experimental results from an actual concrete building construction site show the feasibility of inferring the actual state of progress by the use of thermal images to overcome the limitation of vision monitoring.   AUTOMATED CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS MONITORING USING THERMAL IMAGES AND WIRELESS SENSOR NETWORKS. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/275024236_AUTOMATED_CONSTRUCTION_PROGRESS_MONITORING_USING_THERMAL_IMAGES_AND_WIRELESS_SENSOR_NETWORKS#share [accessed Sep 11, 2015].Save to LibraryDownloadby mehdi pazhoohesh•  105  Civil Engineering, Information Technology, Development Studies, Image Processingplan estretegicoSave to LibraryDownloadby samuel sanchez•BIM Performance MeasurementLifecycle information transformation and exchange for delivering and managing digital and physical assetsThe rapid pace of digitalisation within the Construction Industry and the divergence from traditional practice inherent to this transformation requires the development of new knowledge to frame these emerging practices. Acting on... moreThe rapid pace of digitalisation within the Construction Industry and the divergence from traditional practice inherent to this transformation requires the development of new knowledge to frame these emerging practices. Acting on increasing digitalisation pressures, many national and international standards, protocols, and specifications have been generated with little conceptual framing or with no theoretical underpinning. This positioning paper responds to practical business needs of organisations and project teams, builds upon existing conceptual constructs, and delivers a modular information management framework. The Lifecycle Information Transformation and Exchange (LITE) framework is an extendable conceptual skeletal for defining, managing, and integrating project and asset information. Developed, described, and explained for ongoing field testing, the LITE framework integrates multiple components-information statuses, states, milestones, flows, gates, routes, loops, actions, sets, and tiers-which collectively lay the foundations for an open access digital platform being developed by an international Community of Research and Practice. The framework describes-and aims to predict-information flows across an asset's lifecycle. Its modular conceptual structure, iterative flows, and task-oriented terminology are calibrated to guide the integrated design, delivery, and utilisation of assets of any type, function, or scale.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Erik Poirier•  17  Information Systems, Management Information Systems, Construction Management, Lean ConstructionBIM Education, BIM in Practice (11 co-authors)Building Information Modelling (BIM) is a transformative approach to designing, constructing and operating the built environment. BIM includes a wide range of concepts, tools and workflows which need to be learned and applied by industry... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a transformative approach to designing, constructing and operating the built environment. BIM includes a wide range of concepts, tools and workflows which need to be learned and applied by industry stakeholders. BIM Education represents the process of acquiring the necessary knowledge and the required skills to generate BIM deliverables and satisfy their respective requirements.The documents gathered here stem from the efforts of the BIM Education Working Group (EWG). The EWG started its six month mandate back in December 2011 and included 11 members, equally split between industry (practicing professionals) and academia (university/TAFE lecturers and researchers).There are three documents in the BIM Education section. Read together, they represent the position of the EWG, an invitation for an open discussion, and a foundation for further work. Read separately, each document covers a specific aspect of our work:–– Document E1 introduces BIM Education, the group’s objectives and the structure underlying this effort. It also identifies BIM Learners and their varied requirements–– Document E2 identifies BIM Learning providers and the current status of BIM Education–– Document E3 introduces the BIM Learning Spectrum and a draft Collaborative BIM Education FrameworkAt the conclusion of each document, a summary set of BIM Educational Principles (EP)s is provided. These 20 principles highlight the group’s position and provide opportunities for future discussions covering:–– why BIM Education is the shared responsibility of industry and academia–– what needs to be done to identify the BIM learning requirements of all construction industry stakeholders–– where best to start in a suitably comprehensive BIM learning approach–– who needs to participate in defining, developing and delivering BIM education–– how best to convert BIM educational principles into BIM learning opportunities–– when a BIM education mechanism can be instigated to deliver BIM learning dividendsThe BIM Education working group hopes this effort resonates well with all those who stand to benefit from a collaborative approach to BIM Education. We also hope the three documents, the framework and the embedded principles instigate a fruitful discussion between - and within - industry and academia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  24  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Interoperability, BimBIM According to ARCADISBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a trendy topic, and rightly so. It is a new approach for the use of data and information in the construction industry which will have a huge impact, affecting not only how built assets are designed... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a trendy topic, and rightly so. It is a new approach for the use of data and information in the construction industry which will have a huge impact, affecting not only how built assets are designed and constructed, but how they are operated too. As the application of BIM is evolving rapidly, perspectives on BIM vary and may cause confusion. The whitepaper that we have produced aims to address these concerns and clarify the key benefits of BIM according to ARCADIS.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bram Mommers•  17  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Bim, BIM Education301in.PT Matriz de Maturidade BIMA matriz de maturidade BIM (Bim3) é uma Ferramenta de Conhecimento para identificar a Maturidade BIM de uma organização ou Equipe de Projeto. Bim3 tem dois eixos – Conjuntos de Capacidade BIM – e o Indice de Maturidade.A Matriz BIM de... moreA matriz de maturidade BIM (Bim3) é uma Ferramenta de Conhecimento para identificar a Maturidade BIM de uma organização ou Equipe de Projeto. Bim3 tem dois eixos – Conjuntos de Capacidade BIM – e o Indice de Maturidade.A Matriz BIM de Maturidade destina-se para uma auto-avaliação organizacional com baixo nível de detalhe.A versão em Português foi traduzida por Prof. Dr. Leonardo Manzione de Coordenar.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  13  Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementKekuatan Kiub Konkrit TermampatPada masa ini, konkrit merupakan bahan yang penting dalam industri pembinaan terutamanya dalam pembuatan konkrit blok. Konkrit merupakan bahan yang terdiri daripada simen, agregat kasar, agregat halus dan air. Kebiasaanya kaedah getaran... morePada masa ini, konkrit merupakan bahan yang penting dalam industri pembinaan terutamanya dalam pembuatan konkrit blok. Konkrit merupakan bahan yang terdiri daripada simen, agregat kasar, agregat halus dan air. Kebiasaanya kaedah getaran digunakan dalam penghasilan konkrit blok. Bagi menghasilkan konkrit blok dengan menggunakan kaedah yang lebih efektif dan cepat, nisbah agregat-simen perlulah ditentukan. Namun begitu, bukanlah suatu yang mudah menentukan nisbah yang optimum serta memenuhi spesifikasi yang ditetapkan iaitu mempunyai kekuatan minimum 5.2 N/mm2 pada hari ke 28. Maka, kajian perlu dilakukan untuk mengkaji kadar campuran yang paling sesuai serta memenuhi spesifikasi yang ditetapkan dengan menggunakan kaedah mampatan. Tujuan kajian ini adalah untuk menentukan nisbah agregat-simen yang optimum dalam menghasilkan konkrit lembap yang mempunyai kekuatan minimum 5.2 N/mm2 dengan menggunakan kaedah mampatan. Nisbah yang terlibat dalam kajian ini terbahagi kepada 2 kumpulan perbandingan iaitu kumpulan 1 yang merupakan perbandingan antara nisbah 1:4, 1:6 dan 1:8 dengan peratusan 33% pasir dan 67% serbuk kuari dan Kumpulan 2 yang merupakan perbandingan di kalangan nisbah 1:6 sahaja tetapi dengan peratusan yang berbeza bagi kandungan pasir dan serbuk kuari iaitu 1:1:5, 1:2:4, 1:3:3 dan 1:4:2. Sebanyak 49 sampel kiub konkrit telah disediakan yang terdiri daripada 7 kiub bagi setiap bancuhan dengan tujuan 1 sampel kiub untuk diuji dalam masa 10 minit selepas dihasilkan, 3 sampel kiub untuk diuji pada hari ke 7 dan 3 sampel kiub untuk diuji pada hari ke 28. Ujian yang dijalankan bagi sampel-sampel kiub konkrit dalam kajian ini adalah ujian mampatan. Hasil daripada ujian ini,kekuatan konkrit bagi setiap sampel yang menggunakan nisbah simen-agregat berbeza diperolehi dan di dapati kesemuanya melepasi syarat kekuatan yangSave to LibraryDownloadby ZUL AMRI ABU BAKAR•  8  Construction Project Management, Performance Measurement, Industrialised Building System, Industrialised Building System, Project Management, Artificial Neural Network (ANN) in constructionBUILDING INFORMATION MODELING NO BRASIL E NA UNIão europeia: ESTRATÉGIAS PARA DIFUSÃO DO BIM NO BRASILEste relatório é parte do estudo “Experiences Exchange in BIM - Building Information Modeling” no âmbito do projeto de cooperação MDIC/UE- União Europeia “Apoio aos Diálogos Setoriais UE-Brasil, Fase III” Primeiramente, é apresentado um... moreEste relatório é parte do estudo “Experiences Exchange in BIM - Building Information Modeling” no âmbito do projeto de cooperação MDIC/UE- União Europeia “Apoio aos Diálogos Setoriais UE-Brasil, Fase III” Primeiramente, é apresentado um Sumário Executivo, resumindo as análises do quadro atual da aplicação e difusão do BIM no Brasil e na União Europeia.A Parte II desta publicação é composta pela análise detalhada do BIM no Brasil realizada pelo consultor Sergio R. Leusin de Amorim, complementada pela análise do BIM em cinco países da União Europeia (Reino Unido, França, Holanda, Finlândia e Noruega) realizada pelo consultor Mohamad Kassem, da Teesside University.A partir dessas análises e suas conclusões, a Parte III deste relatório apresenta recomendações para entidades governamentais e outras instituições profissionais com vistas a reforçar e agilizar a implantação do BIM no Brasil. Parte I: SUMÁRIO EXECUTIVOParte II: PARTE II - APLICAÇÃO E USO DA MODELAGEMDE INFORMAÇÕES DA CONSTRUÇÃO NO BRASILE NA UNIÃO EUROPEIAPARTE III - ESTRATÉGIAS PARA DIFUSÃO DO BIM NO BRASILSave to LibraryDownloadby Sergio Roberto L D Amorim and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  21  Architecture, Construction Management, Lean Construction, BIM (Architecture)A proposed approach to comparing the BIM maturity of countriesBIM concepts and tools have now proliferated across the construction industry. This is evidenced by the comparative results of BIM adoption rates reported through a number of industry surveys. However these surveys typically cover a small... moreBIM concepts and tools have now proliferated across the construction industry. This is evidenced by the comparative results of BIM adoption rates reported through a number of industry surveys. However these surveys typically cover a small number of industry stakeholders; are intended to establish adoption rates by organizations rather than markets; and are unsupported by theoretical frameworks to guide data collection and analysis. Based on a published theoretical framework, this paper proposes three metrics to augment survey data and help establish the overall BIM maturity of countries. These metrics apply to noteworthy BIM publications (NBP)s and assess their BIM knowledge content (BKC). NBPs are publically-available industry documents intended to facilitate BIM adoption; while BKCs are specialized labels (e.g. report, manual, and contract) used to describe NBP contents. The three metrics – NBP availability, NBP content distribution, and NBP relevance - are applied in assessing the knowledge deliverables of three countries –  United States, United Kingdom and Australia - chosen for their similar construction culture and active BIM scene. The paper then discusses how these complementary metrics can inform policy development and identify market-wide knowledge gaps.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  25  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), InteroperabilityA tool for the assessment of project compliance with Level 2 BIMPublic and private procurers around the world are either mandating or encouraging the adoption of BIM within their construction sectors and projects. For example, in the UK, BIM (i.e., 'BIM Level 2') is mandatory on all government... morePublic and private procurers around the world are either mandating or encouraging the adoption of BIM within their construction sectors and projects. For example, in the UK, BIM (i.e., 'BIM Level 2') is mandatory on all government centrally procured projects. 'BIM Level 2' is a collaborative way of working, in which 3D models with the required data are created in separate discipline models according to a set of guides, standards and specifications. Mandating BIM Level 2 required the development of a range of guides, standards and specifications 1. These policy documents are intended to guide and facilitate the adoption of BIM by the project supply chain. They are considered complex as evidenced from the large amounts of requirements included within each of them and from the strenuous discussions around their implementation in professional networks and specialised blogs. Tools for assessing the compliance of project activities and deliverables these against requirements of these policy documents do not exist. This research proposes a tool, which enables a project team to determine the compliance of project activities and deliverables with BIM Level 2 policy documents at every phase of the project lifecycle. The tool was built by extracting all requirements from the policy documents. This paper will present the tool and demonstrate its application in a case study. The results show that the proposed tool can help in assessing the compliance of project activities with the policy documents and in simplifying their complexity. The two limitations of this research include the following: a) the used requirements were added to the matrix without any prior processing (e.g. semantic and ontological development); and b) an assumption was made that the policy documents used to build the matrix are trustworthy despite several of them are still at the specification stage – a stage that precedes their conversion into standard – and are untested from research perspective.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohamad  Kassem and +2David CraggsMohammad  Jenaban•  11  BIM (Architecture), Facility Management, Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)Building Information Modelling: Point of AdoptionBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is the current expression of construction industry innovation generating a wide range of augmented market deliverables, new requirements and emergent roles. For organizations to cross the innovation... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is the current expression of construction industry innovation generating a wide range of augmented market deliverables, new requirements and emergent roles. For organizations to cross the innovation chasm, they need to progressively implement complementary tools, workflows and protocols. Such multifaceted implementation is not instantaneous but passes through recursive periods of implementation readiness, capability acquisition, and performance maturity. Similarly, BIM diffusion within organizations is not a frictionless derivative of BIM implementation, but a function of competition dynamics and institutional isomorphic pressures. While there are a number of academic studies and industry surveys covering organisational readiness, software implementation or innovation diffusion, there is no single conceptual model to describe, explain and test BIM adoption as a single construct connecting all these concepts. Based on published research and experiential knowledge, this paper introduces the Point of Adoption (PoA) model which integrates these concepts into a single visual model. The PoA model – not only clarifies the connection between these concepts but – facilitates the assessment of current organisational abilities, and clarifies a step-wise approach to BIM adoption and continuous performance improvement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  13  Construction Management, Diffusion of Innovations, Performance Management, BIM (Architecture)Methodology for BIM implementation in KSA in AEC industryRecently, the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry is considered the most effective contributor to development in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA). However, the AEC industry is facing myriads challenges due to the... moreRecently, the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry is considered the most effective contributor to development in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA). However, the AEC industry is facing myriads challenges due to the vast construction development required for the KSA 2030 vision. Many issues are raised such as failure to meet the client requirement, delay in delivering projects in time, cost overrun, low quality, conflicts among parties, shortage of qualified workers, safety issues, increasing requests of change order, increasing in material wastes and project complexity. Developed countries are using Building Information Modeling (BIM) to mitigate these challenges and reap the benefits from implementing BIM to improve the performance of the AEC industry profoundly.BIM is rapidly growing worldwide as a viable tool for improving the efficiency of (AEC) industry. However, BIM is rarely used in the KSA. The proved benefits of implementing BIM in the developed countries, gave evidence that, BIM requires drastic change and there is no recognized methodology to solicit companies to use BIM. However, from these countries, experience BIM must be mandated. There are some timid attempts to decree BIM in the Gulf Council Countries (GCC) region, whereas in 2014, Dubai Municipality mandate BIM in the large projects.This study aims to develop a methodology to implement BIM in the KSA by exploring the stockholders’ perception of BIM benefits, barriers, and factors affecting the adaption. Accordingly, a questionnaire has been sent to many BIM users and non-users. In addition to, structured interviews were carried out with BIM users and non-users. In the efforts to validate the proposed methodology, another survey sent to BIM experts and structured interviews have been organized with BIM professionals. SPSS 23 software used to analyze quantitative data and NVivo 10 used to analyze qualitative data.The key findings of this study are: (1) Identifying the six steps of the methodology in details in its order to implement BIM; (2) Raising awareness; (3) Perceived benefits of BIM; (4) AEC industry readiness and organizations capability; (5) identifying the barriers; (6) Removing the barriers; and (7) Defining the key factors influencing the implementation. The results of this research are expected to assist all projects participants in KSA to implement BIM to solve the current AEC industry projects issues, improve the performance of the project and reap the benefits of implementing BIM. This study is the first research to make a crucial and novel contribution by providing a methodology to implement BIM in KSA. Future studies can validate the methodology for each project parties.Keywords: BIM, KSA, AEC, Barriers, Benefits, Adoption, implementationSave to LibraryDownloadby Ashraf Elhendawi•  11  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM/IPD SpecialistsBuilding Information Modeling BIM as a Development Tool for the Management of Construction ProjectsSave to LibraryDownloadby Hayam M . Omayer•  17  Project Management, Sustainable Building Design, Project Risk Management, Construction Project ManagementModel Uses: Foundations for a Modular Requirements Clarification LanguageBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) tools and workflows can increase design productivity, reduce construction waste, and improve connectivity of facility operations. To achieve such benefits, model-based deliverables (e.g. model-based... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) tools and workflows can increase design productivity, reduce construction waste, and improve connectivity of facility operations. To achieve such benefits, model-based deliverables (e.g. model-based cost estimation, construction planning, or asset tracking) first need to be clearly specified by owners/clients and, second, be delivered by supply chain players according to these specifications. While there are many guides, protocols, and standards for defining information content within models, there is little guidance for specifying the uses to be derived from this modelled information. To bridge the gap between what is expected from BIM, and what will actually be delivered, there is a need for a clear and modular 'requirements clarification' language. Based on published research – including a framework, conceptual ontology, and competency model – as well as ongoing practical applications, this paper introduces the Model Uses concept, comprising a Model Uses Taxonomy and a Model Uses List. Model Uses are the intended, planned, or expected project deliverables resulting from generating, collaborating, or linking models to external databases. This paper explores the conceptual foundations of Model Uses and then provides practical examples – an implementation task list and an assessment module-of how this modular language assists in identifying BIM project requirements and facilitating project delivery.Erratum: Model Use number 4250 must be 'Life Cycle Assessment'Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  25  Information Systems, Information Technology, Management Information Systems, Information ManagementMetric-based BIM Implementation Assessment: A Review of Research and PracticeBuilding information modeling (BIM) is one of the most significant developments in the construction industry, as it introduces new technologies, processes, and interactions into practice. Prior research shows that there is an increasing... moreBuilding information modeling (BIM) is one of the most significant developments in the construction industry, as it introduces new technologies, processes, and interactions into practice. Prior research shows that there is an increasing interest among practitioners and academics to assess maturity, productivity, and performance of BIM implementation. This suggests that as BIM adoption grows, the need for BIM implementation assessment arises to facilitate monitoring, measuring, and improving BIM practices. However, so far, no single study has comprehensively reviewed and reported the existing approaches, metrics, and criteria used for assessing BIM practices. This study aims to review and analyze the literature and synthesize existing knowledge relevant to the topic. The author develops a thematic framework of BIM aspects, BIM goals, and performance evaluation trends to define grounds for assessing BIM implementation. Based on the framework, this research analyzed a total number of 97 references (selected out of 322 studies) to identify, extract, and classify metrics/criteria used for assessing BIM implementation. This study has practical implications for developing future BIM maturity models and BIM assessment tools as it synthesizes the existing developments on this topic, highlights gaps and limitations in metric-based BIM assessment, and provides recommendations for further research and developments.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hamid Abdirad•  23  Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project Management, Building Information ModelingCV PROFESSOR DR TS ROSHANA TAKIM 2021 JulySave to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Ts Dr Roshana Takim•  5  Construction Project Management, Technology transfer, Disasters, BIM Performance MeasurementImportance and Functions of Bills of Quantities in the Construction Industry: A Content AnalysisBills of Quantities (BQ) is one of systematic ways applied in the construction industry in which its primary function is to record items of works for tendering purposes and to create a fair agreement among the parties involved for... moreBills of Quantities (BQ) is one of systematic ways applied in the construction industry in which its primary function is to record items of works for tendering purposes and to create a fair agreement among the parties involved for contracting purposes. However, there are some issues pertaining to BQ functions such as BQ is a misunderstood facet in the construction industry today, BQ is only useful for tendering purposes, BQ's benefit is not fully utilised by the construction team and most of them cannot relate BQ with everyday construction works and processes. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to study on the importance of BQ and its functions in the construction industry. A content analysis was used to identify the importance and functions of BQ from reviewing articles and books. Findings from this paper are beneficial in providing knowledge to the education field and construction teams on the importance and functions of BQ in the construction industry.Save to LibraryDownloadby atikah razali•  5  BIM (Architecture), Tendering, Bills of Quantities (BQ), BIM Performance MeasurementBuilding Information Modelling Adoption: An Analysis of the Barriers to ImplementationThe UK Government has set a target date for the adoption of Building Information Modelling (BIM) by 2016. Despite the many benefits identified in literature there are also barriers to be overcome but there is little by way of research... moreThe UK Government has set a target date for the adoption of Building Information Modelling (BIM) by 2016. Despite the many benefits identified in literature there are also barriers to be overcome but there is little by way of research ranking the importance of each. To enable informed decision making during the implementation process this research provides a ranking of barriers. The study gathered information via a web-based survey from the top 74 United Kingdombased main construction contractors. The findings demonstrated that the barriers are reduced in importance after BIM adoption as the major hurdle of initial investment has been overcome reducing the “Fear” factor”. The two most important barriers to implementing BIM overall are “Scale of Culture Change Required/Lack of Flexibility” and “Lack of supply Chain Buy-in”. The low ranking awarded to “Lack of management support” and “Other Competing Initiatives” show the priority implementation is given in industry.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Eadie•  4  Bim, BIM-technology, BIM Performance Measurement, BIM FrameworkA TECHNICAL REVIEW OF BIM BASED COST ESTIMATING IN UK QUANTITY SURVEYING PRACTICE, STANDARDS AND TOOLSSUMMARY: In light of recent technological advancements over the decades especially with Information Technology (IT), the 'Building Information Modelling' (BIM) is one of those advancements that have attracted significant attentions in UK... moreSUMMARY: In light of recent technological advancements over the decades especially with Information Technology (IT), the 'Building Information Modelling' (BIM) is one of those advancements that have attracted significant attentions in UK construction industry. The UK government has acknowledged this trend and is joining the radical movement of adopting BIM by also making it a prerequisite for all those involved in public sector projects to have BIM ready by 2016. For Quantity Surveying (QS) profession, BIM presents huge challenges and opportunities, particularly in the area of cost estimating and quantity takeoff. BIM offers the capability to automatically generate quantity takeoffs and measurement directly from a digital model of a building, a process that traditionally is very time consuming for quantity surveyors. However, there is little evidence that BIM is systematically introduced in quantity surveying profession in UK largely due to majority of the BIM based cost estimating or takeoff tools developed outside UK and adopted the different practice and rules in quantification. In this paper, we examine the cost estimating practice and procedure in UK and the impact of the use of BIM. A number of key challenges have been identified in term of information exchange, model quality and UK standards. It also reviews the existing BIM based cost estimating tools in the context of UK quantity surveying practice. A review methodology is developed to evaluate the ability of the existing BIM technology to support the UK QS practices. The methodology is applied to a number of leading BIM based estimating tools. The review assesses the technical and process approach of each tool and their ability of adapting to UK quantity surveying practice, particularly with the New Rules of Measurement (NRM), which is aimed to provide a holistic view of the technologies for the Quantity Surveying professions to make informed decisions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Thien Ly Son•BIM Performance MeasurementNextLast »Related TopicsBIM EducationFollowFollowingBIM/IPD SpecialistsFollowFollowingRevitFollowFollowingBIM FrameworkFollowFollowingBIM-technologyFollowFollowingInteroperabilityFollowFollowingBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)FollowFollowingBIM (Architecture)FollowFollowingBuilding Information ModelingFollowFollowingBIM Performance ImprovementFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023