University of New England - Australia | School of Environmental and Rural Science - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
University of New England - AustraliaSchool of Environmental and Rural Science  All Departments289 Documents37 ResearchersObservations of the Heath Monitor Varanus rosenbergi (Varanidae): A Record from Gambo Hill near Rylstone, New South Wales.A verified range extension paper.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brad Traynor•  6  Baiting, 1080, Varanus, Herpetology and conservationDistribution of a non-native gecko (Hemidactylus turcicus) in TennesseeSave to Libraryby Floyd  Scott and +1E. Nordberg•MultidisciplinaryTesting measures of boldness and exploratory activity in native versus invasive species: geckos as a model systemSave to Libraryby E. Nordberg•  3  Animal Behaviour, Biological Sciences, Psychology and Cognitive SciencesMidwinter Emergence in Hibernating Timber Rattlesnakes (Crotalus horridus)Save to LibraryDownloadby E. Nordberg•  3  Zoology, Herpetology, Ecological ApplicationsTesting measures of boldness and exploratory activity in native versus invasive species: geckos as a model systemSave to Libraryby E. Nordberg•  4  Animal Behaviour, Biological Sciences, Boldness, Psychology and Cognitive SciencesAwareness of rabies and response to dog bites in a Bangladesh communityCommunity awareness regarding rabies and treatment seeking behaviours are critical both for the prevention and control of the disease in human and animals. We conducted a study to explore people's awareness about rabies, their attitudes... moreCommunity awareness regarding rabies and treatment seeking behaviours are critical both for the prevention and control of the disease in human and animals. We conducted a study to explore people's awareness about rabies, their attitudes towards dogs and practices associated with treating dog bites in Satkhira Sadar, a southwestern sub-district of Bangladesh. Of the total 3200 households (HHs) surveyed, the majority of the respondents have heard about rabies (73%) and there was a high level of awareness that dog bite is the main cause of rabies (86%), and that rabies can be prevented by vaccination (85%). However, 59% of the dog bite victims first seek treatment from traditional healers instead of visiting the hospitals, 29% received the rabies vaccine, 2% practiced proper wound washing with soap and water, while 4.8% have not taken any measures. None of the victims have received rabies immunoglobulin (RIG). Of the respondents, 5.2% reported a history of dog bite in at least one family member, and 11.8% reported a history of dog bite in domestic animals during the previous year. The HHs having a higher number of family members (OR: 1.13, 95% CI: 1.07-1.2), having a pet dog (OR: 2.1, 95% CI: 1.4-3.2) and caring or feeding a community dog (OR: 2.1, 95% CI: 1.4-2.9) showed an increased risk of getting a dog bite. Among the bite victims, 3.6% (n = 6) humans and 15.8% (n = 60) animals died. As a measure for dog population management (DPM), 56% preferred sterilization while the rest preferred killing of dogs. The current treatment seeking behaviours of the respondents should be improved through additional education and awareness programme and better availability for the provision of post-exposure prophylaxis in Bangladesh. We recommend scaling up national mass dog vaccination and DPM to reduce the burden of rabies cases and dog bites in Bangladesh.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sumon Ghosh and +1Md Sohel Rana•  2  Epidemiology, Public HealthAnaesthetic responses and reflexes to propofol and its combination in swineTo determine the effectiveness of propofol alone (P), and the combination of xylazine-propofol (XP), xylazineketamine(XK), xylazine-thiopentone (XT), anaesthetic protocols were studied in randomly selected 16 healthy indigenous pigs of... moreTo determine the effectiveness of propofol alone (P), and the combination of xylazine-propofol (XP), xylazineketamine(XK), xylazine-thiopentone (XT), anaesthetic protocols were studied in randomly selected 16 healthy indigenous pigs of either sexes, age 12 to 15 months and weight ranging from 12 to 16 kg. The responses of propofol and the combinations in different stages of anaesthesia were closely monitored. Various reflex responses and muscle tenacity were also observed concurrently during the period of anaesthesia. The study found the shortest (0.29±0.02 min) induction period with XT anaesthesia and the longest (2.95±0.21 min) by XK; whereas, induction of anaesthesia with P and XP was 0.4±0.08 and 0.41±0.08 min respectively. The time required for maximum depth of anaesthesia was the shortest in P (7.50±0.65 min) than the combinations. However, the anaesthetic protocol with XP produced the highest (65.25±3.30 min) duration of anaesthesia than the shortest (10.75±1.75 min) extent with P. Moreover, time to recovery from anaesthesia was higher (83.25±2.14 min) in XT and shorter (18.50±1.32 min) in P protocol. Good muscle relaxation was observed in XP, XK and XT combinations. Palpebral, conjunctival, jaw, tail and digital reflexes were almost absent in XP and XT combinations. The study concluded that propofol itself is a safe anaesthetic for short surgical interventions and its combination with xylazine is to be recommended for prolonged surgical procedures in swine.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•Pathological and molecular detection of diseases of cattle at slaughterBackground This study was carried out to identify important zoonotic diseases of beef cattle at slaughter in Bangladesh. Methods A total of 20 slaughtered cattle of both sexes, different ages and breeds were taken under... moreBackground This study was carried out to identify important zoonotic diseases of beef cattle at slaughter in Bangladesh. Methods A total of 20 slaughtered cattle of both sexes, different ages and breeds were taken under investigation from Nilphamari, Rajshahi and Mymensingh district, Bangladesh during July to October, 2017. Detailed ante-mortem and post-slaughter lesions were inspected and the tissues from the lungs, liver, kidney and spleen were collected aseptically for histopathological examination. The tissue sections were processed and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stain, acid fast stain and Gram stain. To detect the presence of specific microorganism in the tissues, the genomic DNA was extracted and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was carried out. Results Grossly, liver appeared as most affected organ followed by lungs, kidney and spleen. Wide spread necrosis and pipe steam liver due to fascioliasis (n=4), hydatidosis in lungs (n=3), congestion in the kidney (n=4) and petechial hemorrhage (n=2) in the spleen were the predominant lesions observed in the slaughtered cattle. H&E staining of tissue sections revealed granulomas in two liver and one lungs. Lung section stained with acid fast stain detected the acid fast bacilli in a case. Tissue sections stained with Gram stain showed cocci bacteria in the liver of two cattle. The PCR confirmed the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a cattle. Conclusions Fascioliasis, hydatidosis and important zoonotic disease like tuberculosis are prevalent in the slaughtered cattle in Bangladesh. PCR technology appeared as a sensitive and specific screening test to diagnose tuberculosis. However, screening of large number of samples is necessary to detect the presence of important zoonotic diseases in cattle for safe beef production.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana and +1Afsana Akter Jahan•General anaesthesia of indigenous pigs in BangladeshAnaesthetic trials were conducted with propofol (P), xylazine-propofol (XP), xylazine-ketamine (XK), xylazine-thiopentone (XT) in 16 healthy indigenous pigs. Respiration rate decreased significantly (P < 0.01) five minutes after... moreAnaesthetic trials were conducted with propofol (P), xylazine-propofol (XP), xylazine-ketamine (XK), xylazine-thiopentone (XT) in 16 healthy indigenous pigs. Respiration rate decreased significantly (P < 0.01) five minutes after induction, and during maximum depth of anaesthesia, and had not returned to control value after recovery from anaesthesia with all anaesthetic combinations. Heart rate with P increased significantly (P<0.01) five minutes after induction, whereas it decreased significantly (P < 0.01) with XP, XK and XT during anaesthesia and remained below the normal range after recovery from anaesthesia except after XP. In all anaesthetic sessions, rectal temperature decreased significantly (P < 0.01) in all stages of anaesthesia: after recovery the rectal temperature almost returned to control value in P and XP. Slight to moderate salivation was observed in all pigs with P and XP. It is suggested that P and XP combination seems to be suitable for general anaesthesia in pigs, but XP is more suitable.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•Prevalence of ovine footrot in Brahmaputra Chars (shoals) in MymensinghA retrospective cohort study was conducted from July 2012 to August 2013 to determine prevalence of ovine footrot in chars (Shoals) of Mymensingh Sadar Upazila, Bangladesh, centred in Paranganj Union Parishad. A field survey used a... moreA retrospective cohort study was conducted from July 2012 to August 2013 to determine prevalence of ovine footrot in chars (Shoals) of Mymensingh Sadar Upazila, Bangladesh, centred in Paranganj Union Parishad. A field survey used a prepared questionnaire and investigation of farm management. The prevalence of ovine footrot was 4.2% in the study group of 687 sheep, in 106 farms. The prevalence differed according to farm type and housing system. Prevalence of ovine footrot was higher (9.5%) in farms where sheep and other livestock were housed under the same roof. Prophylactic medication and footbath practice were absent. Common care and management practices were sheep bath, house and floor cleaning, deworming, and therapeutic medication. Highest prevalence (7.0%) was recorded in farms where prophylactic medication and deworming was irregular, and antiseptics were not used in sheep bathing and cleaning of sheep house and floor. The results suggest that improvement of the housing environment and management practices are required to control footrot.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•Prevalence of surgical diseases of cattle in stall-fed and free- range cattle in BangladeshThe prevalence of surgical diseases of 2081 cattle was studied from different free-ranging (Bathan) and stall-feeding systems. The overall prevalence of surgical disease of cattle was higher (53.2%) in Bathan than in the stall-feeding... moreThe prevalence of surgical diseases of 2081 cattle was studied from different free-ranging (Bathan) and stall-feeding systems. The overall prevalence of surgical disease of cattle was higher (53.2%) in Bathan than in the stall-feeding (37.5%) system. In Bathan, the most prevalent surgical diseases were myiasis (13.4%) followed by navel ill (12.5%), trauma (10.8%), claw diseases (7.6%), arthritis (6.1%), horn diseases (3.4%) and teat obstruction (2.6%). In stall-feeding system, the highest prevalence (10.6%) was claw diseases and navel ill (6.6%). Navel ill, hernia, arthritis, horn diseases, urolithiasis and tail gangrene were more prevalent in male; and claw diseases, trauma, myiasis, upward patellar fixation and dislocation of hip joint were more prevalent in female cattle. Most diseases were more prevalent in summer but claw diseases, urolithiasis and teat crack were more prevalent in winter. Clean environment is needed to reduce the prevalence of such problems.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•STUDY ON PREVALENCE AND RISK FACTORS OF SUBCLINICAL MASTITIS IN LACTATING DAIRY COWS IN RAJSHAHI AND RANGPUR DIVISION OF BANGLADESHA cross sectional epidemiological study was run on subclinical mastitis to determine its prevalence and to identify associated risk factors in total of 261 dairy cows of different breeds and ages distributed in different villages in... moreA cross sectional epidemiological study was run on subclinical mastitis to determine its prevalence and to identify associated risk factors in total of 261 dairy cows of different breeds and ages distributed in different villages in Rajshahi and Rangpur division of Bangladesh during January 2008 to December 2010 through field screening  surveys by using of the California mastitis test (CMT) for each quarter milk sample. The dairy cows were differed from the breed point of view as 147 local Zebu breed and 114 Holstein x local Zebu cross (LxHF) breed. All dairy cows were apparently healthy with clinically sound udder secreting apparently normal milk. Based on CMT results, prevalence of subclinical mastitis was significantly (P<0.01) higher in crossbreeds (53.5%) as compared to indigenous Zebu cattle (36.1%) at cow level; and at quarter level 31.6% and 19.2% in crossbreds and local Zebu, respectively. In the present study, some potential risk factors such as age of cows, parity, stage of lactation, body condition in addition to some environmental factors and farm management factors were studied to find out their effects on the frequency of subclinical mastitis of lactating cattle. Among the host related potential risk factors breed, age, parity and  body condition were found significantly (P<0.01) associated with the high prevalence  of subclinical mastitis. Some environmental factors including type of housing, different husbandry systems, periodical disinfection of floor and hand washing before milking also influenced the prevalence of subclinical mastitis in lactating dairy cows. Some recommendations as intervention strategies were forwarded for improved control of mastitis in the region.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•Surgical affections: A comparative scenario of Chittagong regionA survey was conducted to determine the occurrence of surgical disorders in five upazila veterinary hospitals (UVH) in Chittagong region. A total of 12,642 sick animals of different UVH were investigated in this study. The overall... moreA survey was conducted to determine the occurrence of surgical disorders in five upazila veterinary hospitals (UVH) in Chittagong region. A total of 12,642 sick animals of different UVH were investigated in this study. The overall occurrence of surgical disorders was found 6.59% in Chittagong region where as 6.65% in hill tracts and 6.33% in plain land. The common surgical disorders recorded were myiasis (1.21%), tympany (1.13%), navel ill (0.99%), traumatic wound (0.79%), dog bite (0.73%), foot diseases (0.59%), abscess (0.32%), urolithiasis (0.27%), fracture (0.23%) and upward patellar fixation (0.11%). Out of 834 surgically affected animals, 51.32% were from hill tracts and 48.68% from plain land. The cases were higher in cattle (57.48%) than goat (40.18%), sheep (0.93%) and pig (1.40%). The percentage of surgical disorders was higher in female (60.28%) than in male (39.71%). The highest occurrence of surgical disorders was in summer season (16.96%) followed by rainy season (32.01%) and winter season (21.03%). It reveals that the highest occurrence of surgical disorder is claimed by myiasis (18.69%) in hill tracts. The results imply that surgical disorders affecting the animal population in these areas is a great threat for animal rearing. It could be mitigated by prompt surgical intervention of these defects.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•Epidemiological study of human rabies cases in Bangladesh through verbal autopsyIdentification of risk factors is crucial to find ways to reduce rabies deaths. We investigated the hospital records of rabies deceased through contact tracing of the relatives of the victims using enhanced verbal autopsies (VA) to... moreIdentification of risk factors is crucial to find ways to reduce rabies deaths. We investigated the hospital records of rabies deceased through contact tracing of the relatives of the victims using enhanced verbal autopsies (VA) to identify why the people had to die from rabies in recent years in Bangladesh. Patients whose deaths were confirmed by physicians based on the history of animal exposure and clinical signs were taken into account for VA. Socio-demographic profile of the deceased, animal exposure, nature of the wound, and history of post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) data were obtained and analysed. The study found 256 cases in which the cause of death was attributed to rabies, most of the victims were male (71.88%), resided in the rural community (80.47%), dependent (49.22%), and children below the age of 15 years (47.27%). Dogs were the single most responsible (81.64%); however, cats (12.11%), jackals (3.91%) and mongoose (2.34%) were also found accountable for rabies incidence (P < 0.05). Significantly, limbs were the most common (67.97%) site of exposure, and the shortest incubation period was identified in the case of bites to head and face (P < 0.05). The majority (86.72%) of the deceased did not receive any PEP; whereas, 66.80% sought treatment from traditional healers. Among the deceased (13.28%, n ¼ 34) who had received PEP, only 8.82% of them completed the full course of the vaccination regimen (P < 0.01); however, none of them had history of taking rabies immunoglobulin (RIG). The study recommends extensive public health awareness programs in the rural community and establishing methods to improve healthcare-seeking behaviours, including receiving PEP instead of visiting traditional healers. Moreover, the availability and accessibility of PEP in the government hospital facilities are desirable, and laboratory-based surveillance with compatible rapid data reporting may be incorporated in the existing policy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sumon Ghosh and +2Md Sohel RanaBe-Nazir Ahmed•  2  Infectious disease epidemiology, Rabies ControlTrends and clinico-epidemiological features of human rabies cases in Bangladesh 2006-2018Vaccinating dogs against rabies is an effective means of reducing human rabies. We subjected 1327 clinically diagnosed human rabies death and mass dog vaccination (MDV) data during 2006-2018 to quantify the impacts of MDV on human rabies... moreVaccinating dogs against rabies is an effective means of reducing human rabies. We subjected 1327 clinically diagnosed human rabies death and mass dog vaccination (MDV) data during 2006-2018 to quantify the impacts of MDV on human rabies incidence in Bangladesh and a subset of rabies death data (422) for clinico-epidemiological analysis. A positive and increasing trend of MDV (p = 0.01 and tau = 0.71) and a negative and declining trend (p < 0.001 and tau = −0.88) of human rabies cases (Correlation coefficient: −0.82) have been observed. Among 422 deaths, the majority (78%) of the victims sought treatment from traditional healers, and 12% received post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). The mean incubation period of rabies in cases with exposure sites on the head & neck (35 days) was shorter than the upper limb (mean = 64 days, p = 0.02) and lower limb (mean = 89 days, p < 0.01). MDV has been found to be effective for reducing human rabies cases in Bangladesh. Creating awareness among the animal bite victims to stop reliance on traditional healers rather seeking PEP, addressing the role of traditional healers through awareness education programme with respect to the treatment of dog bites, ensuring availability of PEP, and continuing to scale up MDV may help to prevent human rabies deaths. Rabies is a zoonotic viral disease responsible for the death of approximately 59,000 people worldwide with more than 3.7 million disability-adjusted life years lost annually 1. Due to acute progressive encephalitis, rabies is almost always fatal once clinical signs appear. The disease occurs predominantly in impoverished communities, in both rural and urban areas, and has been recognized for over 4000 years 2,3. Rabies is present across all continents, except Antarctica with more than 95% of human fatalities happening in the areas of Asia and Africa, and approximately 40% of cases in the population are aged below 15 years. Although all warm-blooded animals are susceptible to rabies, domestic dogs are the main cause of rabies virus transmission to humans in up to 99% of cases in rabies-endemic regions 4. Most cases of rabies are caused by the bite of an infected dog. The effect of rabies virus (RABV) exposure depends on a number of factors, including the gravity of the wound, the anatomical site of the bite on the body, the viral quantity and variant (genotype) inoculated into the wound(s) and the timeliness of post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) 3. The clinical manifestation of human rabies can appear in any of two forms: the widely perceived furious (classical or encephalitic) form or the paralytic (or dumb) form 5,6. Each case of rabies hasSave to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana and +1Sumon Ghosh•  2  Bangladesh, RabiesKnowledge, attitudes and perceptions about rabies among the people in the community, healthcare professionals and veterinary practitioners in BangladeshIt is crucial to explore knowledge, attitudes and perceptions (KAP) about rabies among the people in the community, the personnel dealing with animal bite management and suspected rabies patients, including humans and animals, to... moreIt is crucial to explore knowledge, attitudes and perceptions (KAP) about rabies among the people in the community, the personnel dealing with animal bite management and suspected rabies patients, including humans and animals, to facilitate intervention in improving rabies elimination strategies. In 2016, we conducted an interactive face-to-face survey in three different districts of Bangladesh to understand the extent of KAP towards rabies in the community peoples (CPs), human healthcare professionals (HCPs) and veterinary practitioners (VPs). A set of prescribed questions was employed to measure what proportion of each group possessed sufficient knowledge, positive attitudes and adequate perceptions about rabies. A total of 1133 CPs, 211 HCPs and 168 VPs were interviewed by using a standard questionnaire comprising both closed and open-ended questions. Of the CPs, 49% identified the disease correctly (i.e. rabies is caused by an animal bite or a scratch). Only 29% of the CPs were aware that a wound should be washed immediately with soap and water after an animal bite or a scratch. However, only 49% of the CPs, 65% of the HCPs and 60% of the VPs felt that it is important to consult a physician and receive post-exposure vaccine as the first line of treatment following an animal exposure. Among the HCPs, 23% of the respondents did not possess sufficient knowledge about animal bites as categorised by the World Health Organization (WHO), and 12% of the respondents did not possess the knowledge on how to manage an animal bite properly. Out of 52% of the VPs who previously treated suspected rabid animals, only 29% had a history of taking rabies pre-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). Lack of formal education and rural subsistence were found to largely contribute to poor rabies KAP level among the CPs (P ≤ 0.01). There has been a high demand for proper training to be provided to HCPs and VPs for the effective management of an animal bite incidence in human and animals, respectively. Multi-sectoral collaboration through integrated One Health initiatives including community education, awareness programmes, facilitation of rabies PEP, and dog vaccination as well as its population control are critical in the way forward to control rabies in Bangladesh.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•Zoonosis and communicable diseases, one health one world one medicationPreference testing for UV light spectrum and intensity in laying hensSunlight intensity and UV radiation may affect free-range hens' use of the outside range, particularly when sunlight is intense with a high UV index. However, it is uncertain what aspect of sunlight (brightness or UV) may be most aversive... moreSunlight intensity and UV radiation may affect free-range hens' use of the outside range, particularly when sunlight is intense with a high UV index. However, it is uncertain what aspect of sunlight (brightness or UV) may be most aversive to hens to discourage them from leaving standard indoor lighting conditions to venture outdoors. A controlled indoorbased choice study was conducted to determine whether hens showed preferences for different light wavelengths and intensities that may affect outdoor range usage. Cage-reared ISA Brown laying hens (n 5 84) at 44 wk of age in 3 groups (28 hens/group) were tested for preferences of indoor standard light emitting diode (LED) white light (control) vs. one of three different treatment lights: 1) visible spectrum plus infrared wavelengths (VIS); 2) visible spectrum plus UVA wavelengths (UVA); and (iii) visible spectrum plus UVA and UVB wavelengths (UVA/B) presented successively at low, medium, or high levels of intensity. Hens within each group were individually tested for 2 h in an apparatus with 2 compartments (control vs. treatment) connected by a tunnel on both sides. Videos of hens' time spent in each compartment and behaviors were decoded and analyzed using GLMM. Hens spent more time under the low intensity of the UVA/B light treatment (62%), the low intensity of VIS light (61%), medium intensities of both UVA/B light (60%), and UVA light (59%), and the high intensity of the VIS light (58%) when compared with control light (all P 0.05). Hens spent less time feeding under all intensities of UVA light (all P 0.03) and showed more foraging, ground pecking, and preening at lower levels of UVA/B light (P , 0.05). The study suggests that UVA/B light (sunlight) may have positive effects for hen range use, but during peak sun intensities, hens may need additional measures (e.g., shelter) to protect themselves. Confirmation of these findings in a free-range setting is needed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Md Sohel Rana•Poultry ScienceMechanistic basis for the loss of water balance in green tree frogs infected with a fungal pathogenChytridiomycosis, a lethal skin disease caused by the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis ( Bd), disrupts skin function of amphibians, interfering with ionic and osmotic regulation. To regulate fungal loads, amphibians increase... moreChytridiomycosis, a lethal skin disease caused by the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis ( Bd), disrupts skin function of amphibians, interfering with ionic and osmotic regulation. To regulate fungal loads, amphibians increase their rate of skin sloughing. However, sloughing also causes a temporary loss of ionic and osmotic homeostasis due to disruption of the skin, a key osmoregulatory organ. The combined effects of increased sloughing frequency and chytridiomycosis contribute to the high rates of mortality from Bd infections. However, the mechanisms responsible for the loss of cutaneous osmotic regulation remain unknown. We measured the changes in whole animal water uptake rates, in vitro transcutaneous water fluxes across the ventral skin, and the mRNA expression of epithelial water transport proteins (aquaporins, AQPs) and junctional proteins in Bd-infected and uninfected Litoria caerulea skin. We hypothesize that infected frogs would show reduction/inhibition in cut...Save to Libraryby Callum McKercher•  2  Biological Sciences, Medical and Health SciencesReducing weed biomass by burning and grazing can adversely affect frogsSave to LibraryDownloadby Deborah Bower•Life stage specific variation in the occupancy of ponds by Litoria aurea, a threatened amphibianBreeding aggregations are a reproductive strategy to increase mate finding opportunity. However, because aggregations skew the distribution of mature animals through conspecific attraction, rather than resource availability, the... moreBreeding aggregations are a reproductive strategy to increase mate finding opportunity. However, because aggregations skew the distribution of mature animals through conspecific attraction, rather than resource availability, the distribution of breeding sites may be reduced, so that not all suitable breeding sites are used. To examine the relationship between landscape and reproductive strategies of a threatened frog, Litoria aurea, we studied its distribution at Sydney Olympic Park over two breeding seasons. We aimed to: (i) determine the distribution and predictors of breeding ponds; and (ii) assess the significance of dispersal in the juvenile age-class. We found that the distribution of the calling males was highly skewed and occurred in large, well-connected ponds. Despite this, breeding ponds were not aggregated; pond size was the single factor explaining the distribution of breeding ponds. Juvenile frogs dispersed from breeding ponds and were not associated with a specific pond characteristic. Less breeding occurred in the second season during which fewer ponds were used for breeding including many different ponds from the previous year. These changes suggest that breeding effort and breeding pond choice are dynamic and therefore knowledge of the factors that drive breeding events will be a powerful tool in managing species, particularly in light of changing climatic regimes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deborah Bower and +3Michelle StockwellCarla PollardMichael Mahony•
1
2
3
4
…
15
Next ›
Last »
 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023