Brunei, M’sia train in 11th military exercise | The Brunei Times
15 captures
08 Dec 2014 - 09 Jul 2023
Nov
DEC
Jul
08
2013
2014
2016
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20141208183256/http://www.bt.com.bn/news-national/2014/04/20/brunei-m%E2%80%99sia-train-11th-military-exercise
Skip to main content
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Home
News
Business
Opinion
Features
Sport
Supplement
Videos
Events
 e-Paper
Jobs@BT
Sitemap
BTMap
Brunei, M’sia train in 11th military exercise
                Col Pg Dato Aminan, acting deputy commander of the Royal Brunei Land Force (L) salutes an officer after affixing an armband denoting assigned tasks during the exercise. BT/Daniel Wood              
You might also like:
Advisory for tourists on fasting norms
Wu Chun makes appearance at UBD Film Festival
PWD opens diversion road at Jln Pg Babu Raja
Minister inspects new education facilities 
Domestic helper embraces Islam
 Daniel Wood
 BELAIT
 
Sunday, April 20, 2014
            
 A MILITARY exercise between Brunei and Malaysia is under way, with both countries’ land force joining the 11th edition of the Brumal Setia Series.
A contingent of 135 personnel from the Third Royal Malay Regiment arrived in Lumut from Malaysia on Tuesday, where they will continue training with their counterparts from the Third Battalion of the Royal Brunei Land Force in Lumut until April 28.
The opening ceremony of the exercise took place yesterday morning at the Lumut Camp, presided by guest of honour, Col Pg Dato Paduka Aminan Pg Hj Mahmud, acting deputy commander of the Royal Brunei Land Force (RBLF).
After Col Pg Dato Aminan conducted an inspection on the guard of honour, the Third Royal Malay Regiment’s commanding officer handed over his unit’s flag to the RBLF commanding officer.
The guest of honour then affixed armbands onto the officers, assigning to them duties of exercise controller, chief reviewer, as well as the leaders of the allied and enemy sides during the exercise.
In his address, Col Pg Dato Aminan hoped the exercise would build the foundation to enhance interaction and exchange of ideas between the two countries’ land forces.
Col Pg Dato Aminan also exchanged souvenirs with his Malaysian counterpart, Lt Gen Dato’ Seri Panglima Hj Ahmad Hasbullah Hj Mohd Nawawi, deputy chief of Malaysian Army.
The exercise is expected to centre around the Penanjong Garrison areas of Tutong district as well as several locations in Belait, focusing on the theme of counter-insurgency operations with elements of urban warfare and deploying conventional land battle tactics.
Live ammunition will be used during the exercise, while air support is expected to be deployed.
The exercise aims to improve interoperability between Brunei and Malaysia’s land force, while strengthening the close ties fostered by their predecessors as evidenced by previous military cooperation during peacekeeping missions to Lebanon and Mindanao.
The Brumal/Malbru Setia exercise has been conducted since 1991, with the last two Malbru editions hosted in Malaysia. Brunei last hosted the exercise in 2008 in Tutong.
The Brunei Times
***
For news videos and features, visit this page and drop by next time to see the latest. View a few vids and leave a comment if you wish. We also have a site for our interactives.
We have our daily web newscast. Our journalists take turns presenting our news summaries so you know tomorrow’s stories even before they are printed. You may visit this directory to see when new editions are up on the site. You may also subscribe to our Youtube channel so you get the new vids once we upload them.
We’ve ‘bookmarked’ the interesting stories/pages of The Brunei Times for you.
Check out our young columnists. Excessive Thoughts. On The Road. Refresh. Tech Brat. If you disagree, feel free to leave a comment.
When a reader is not happy about something and wants Brunei to know about it or act on a problem or issue, this is where the complaint is posted.
Have a good day.           
[VISIT our multimedia features page. CLICK on this link to find pages that list some of the interesting content of the paper as well as its popular pages. FOLLOW us on Facebook and Twitter.]
 
            Keywords          
            Date created          
 
 
Article Tools
Print this articleEmail this article
Share this on:
 Twitter
 Facebook
Adjust font size:
-A A +A 
 
Follow @TheBruneiTimes
 
e-Paper
 
The Company:
Advertise with us
Jobs
Contact Us
 
Services:
Videos
Play and Learn
Photo Gallery
Bookmarks
Subscription
 
          Copyright © 2006 - 2014 Brunei Times Sdn Bhd. All Rights Reserved.      