Inequality - Income inequality - OECD Data

            Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
          
×
Menu
OECD.org
Data
Publications
More sites
OECD Better Life Index
OECD iLibrary
OECD Observer
OECD Insights blog
OECD Development Centre
FATF - Financial Action Task Force
IEA – International Energy Agency
ITF – International Transport Forum
NEA – Nuclear Energy Agency
SWAC – Sahel and West Africa Club
News
Newsroom
Multimedia gallery
Job vacancies
Data
›  
    Français
›  
    Français
Search
OECD Data
Header
Income inequality
Related topics
Society

               Income is defined as household disposable income in a particular year. It consists of earnings, self-employment and capital income and public cash transfers; income taxes and social security contributions paid by households are deducted. The income of the household is attributed to each of its members, with an adjustment to reflect differences in needs for households of different sizes. Income inequality among individuals is measured here by five indicators. The Gini coefficient is based on the comparison of cumulative proportions of the population against cumulative proportions of income they receive, and it ranges between 0 in the case of perfect equality and 1 in the case of perfect inequality. S80/S20 is the ratio of the average income of the 20% richest to the 20% poorest; P90/P10 is the ratio of the upper bound value of the ninth decile (i.e. the 10% of people with highest income) to that of the first decile; P90/P50 of the upper bound value of the ninth decile to the median income; and P50/P10 of median income to the upper bound value of the first decile. The Palma ratio is the share of all income received by the 10% people with highest disposable income divided by the share of all income received by the 40% people with the lowest disposable income.
            
Latest publication
In It Together: Why Less Inequality Benefits AllPublication (2015)
Indicators
Income inequality
Poverty rate
Poverty gap
Discrimination in the family
Violence against women
Women in politics
Social Institutions and Gender
Housing overcrowding
Income inequalitySource:
                                        Income distribution
Show:
                                        
Chart
Table
fullscreen
share
download
Selected data only (.csv)
Full indicator data (.csv)
My pinboard
Add this view
Go to pinboard

                                        ©OECD·Terms & Conditions
Perspectives
GINI
P50P10
P90P10
P90P50
PALMA
S80S20
GINI
P50P10
P90P10
P90P50
PALMA
S80S20
 Compare variables
INEQ
RT
Countries
Highlighted Countries
                                                ()
                                            
Highlight countries
Find a country by name
Currently highlighted
Remove all
Select background
All
OECD
European Union
Euro Area
G7
G20
None
Time
yearly
quarterly
monthly
 latest data available
Definition of
Income inequality
Income is defined as household disposable income in a particular year. It consists of earnings, self-employment and capital income and public cash transfers; income taxes and social security contributions paid by households are deducted. The income of the household is attributed to each of its members, with an adjustment to reflect differences in needs for households of different sizes. Income inequality among individuals is measured here by five indicators. The Gini coefficient is based on the comparison of cumulative proportions of the population against cumulative proportions of income they receive, and it ranges between 0 in the case of perfect equality and 1 in the case of perfect inequality. S80/S20 is the ratio of the average income of the 20% richest to the 20% poorest; P90/P10 is the ratio of the upper bound value of the ninth decile (i.e. the 10% of people with highest income) to that of the first decile; P90/P50 of the upper bound value of the ninth decile to the median income; and P50/P10 of median income to the upper bound value of the first decile. The Palma ratio is the share of all income received by the 10% people with highest disposable income divided by the share of all income received by the 40% people with the lowest disposable income.
Last published in
Publication
 DOI URL
                                    
Citation
Please cite this indicator as follows:
OECD (2023), Income inequality (indicator). doi: 10.1787/459aa7f1-en
Related publications
How's Life?Publication (2020)
Society at a GlancePublication (2019)
Growing Unequal?Publication (2008)
Source database
Income distributionDatabase OECD Social and Welfare Statistics
Data warehouseDatabase OECD.Stat
Further indicators related to Inequality
Gross national incomeIndicator 
Household disposable incomeIndicator 
Adult education levelIndicator 
Employment rateIndicator 
Further publications related to Inequality
How's Life?Publication (2020)
Society at a GlancePublication (2019)
Closing the Gender GapPublication (2012)
Your selection for sharing:

                  
                  Snapshot of data for a fixed period (data will not change even if updated on the site)
                

                  Latest available data for a fixed period,
                  

                  Latest available data,
                  
Sharing options
Facebook
Twitter
E-Mail
Permanent URL
Copy the URL to open this chart with all your selections.
Embed code
Use this code to embed the visualisation into your website.

            Width:  px
           Preview Embedding
OECD
Data
Catalogue of OECD Indicators
Better Life Index
Contact Us

              ©              
              Organisation for Economic
            
            
              Co-operation and Development
            
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Follow us (More platforms):
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Instagram
RSS
Oecd Direct
 