Wikimania – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
News
Category: Wikimania 
 
Wikimania 2023 in Singapore centers on diversity, collaboration, and the future of free knowledge
Events Press Release Singapore Wikimania 
In its eighteenth edition, Wikimania, the flagship annual conference that celebrates Wikimedia projects like Wikipedia and the volunteers who make them possible, is set to take place in Singapore.
10 August 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimania 2022: The festival edition brings together Wikipedia volunteers around the world for virtual and in person celebrations of free knowledge
Community Events Wikimania 
10 August, 2022 – Every year, hundreds of Wikimedians – the volunteers who make Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects possible – come together to celebrate free knowledge at the annual Wikimania global conference. Now in its 17th edition, the conference looks different this year than it has in the past. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to….
10 August 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimania 2021: Welcome to the world of Wikimedians … the online edition!
Community Events Wikimania 
In an alternate, COVID-19-free universe, hundreds of Wikimedians — the community of volunteers who make Wikipedia and other free knowledge projects possible — would have gathered in Bangkok, Thailand, in August 2020 for the sixteenth annual Wikimania conference. They would have met in person, no social distancing to worry about, exploring sites like the Grand Palace, snacking….
13 August 2021
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Meet Emna Mizouni, the newly minted 2019 Wikimedian of the Year
Tunisia Wikimania 
Today, Tunisian free knowledge advocate Emna Mizouni was named the 2019 Wikimedian of the Year. The award was given in recognition of her inspiring leadership within the global Wikimedia movement, especially within Arab and African communities, and for her tireless work in raising awareness of Tunisia’s extensive history and culture. Emna is a life-long resident….
18 August 2019
By Ed Erhart 
Read more
 
Wikimedia and UN Human Rights partner to expand Wikipedia’s knowledge
Affiliates Community Wikimania 
The Wikimedia Foundation and the United Nations’ Human Rights Office (OHCHR) are partnering to support the creation of human rights-related content on Wikimedia sites. We believe that free access to knowledge is a fundamental human right—that anyone, anywhere should have the ability to learn more about the world around them. We are proud to be….
16 August 2019
By Jorge Vargas, Anna Torres and Luisina Ferrante 
Read more
Wikimedia Foundation announces Shani Evenstein Sigalov as new Trustee, as well as leadership appointments at fifteenth annual Wikimania
Wikimania 
Yesterday, the Wikimedia Foundation announced a new member and leadership appointments to its Board of Trustees. Shani Evenstein Sigalov, currently an EdTech Innovation Strategist and lecturer at the School of Medicine in Tel Aviv University, will be the newest member of the Board of Trustees. Nataliia Tymkiv will begin her second term on the Board….
16 August 2019
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Volunteers from around the world gather in Stockholm for the fifteenth annual Wikimania
Community Events Sweden Wikimania 
More than 800 attendees from nearly 80 countries have gathered in Stockholm, Sweden, for the start of the fifteenth annual Wikimania. Taking place from 14–18 August, Wikimania brings together the community of volunteers who make Wikipedia and the Wikimedia projects possible. Over 5 days, attendees will come together to discuss Wikimedia’s future and the role….
14 August 2019
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Liv Inger Somby, journalist and scholar, to speak at Wikimania about the Sámi people and bringing indigenous languages online
Affiliates Events Wikimania 
“For us, the Sámi people, digital platforms like Wikipedia are very important. My dream is that Sámi children across national borders communicate in Sámi languages, and common revitalization projects on the Wikimedia platforms are a great tool to reach that goal.” – Liv Inger Somby The Sámi, a group of indigenous people, have lived in….
29 July 2019
By Astrid Carlsen 
Read more
 
Liv Inger Somby, journalista ja fágabargi, galgá hupmat sápmelaččaid birra ja dan ahte galggašii buktit eamiálbmotgielaid internehttii
Affiliates Wikimania 
“Midjiide, sápmelaččaide, leat digitála vuogádagat nu go Wikipedia hui dehálaččat. Mu niehku livččii ahte sámi mánát gulahallet daid iešguđet sámegielaiguin riikkarájiid rastá. Wikipedia vuogádagaid oktasaš ealáskahttin doaimmat livčče buorit reaiddut dán ulbmila joksat.” –Liv Inger Somby, “spotlight” logaldalli Wikimanias 2019:s Sápmelaččat leat eamiálbmot, geat leat duháhiid jagiid orron davvin, guovllus mii ođđaáiggis lea oassin Norgga,….
29 July 2019
By Astrid Carlsen 
Read more
 
Wikipedia’s annual conference, Wikimania, is coming to Stockholm
Community Wikimania 
The annual conference behind Wikipedia, one of the world’s most visited and beloved websites, will take place in Stockholm from 14–18 August 2019. The event will bring together members of the global community behind Wikipedia and the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects: volunteer editors (Wikimedians) from around the world, museum and archival experts, leaders of….
13 June 2019
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
1
2
Older 
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.