The Occidental Language
Toggle navigation
Get Started (current)
About
Learn
Tools
Read
Channels
Community
FAQs
Occidental
Li lingue comun del occidente
Benevenit ad un compendie de information pri Occidental, li lingue comun inter omni lingues del occidente. It esset creat de Edgar de Wahl in 1922 por esser un international auxiliari lingue. Hodíe ti lingue es por quicunc quel es interessat!
Welcome to a compendium of information about Occidental, the common language between all languages of the occident. It was created by Edgar de Wahl in 1922 to be an international auxiliary language. Today this language is for anyone who is interested!
Get Started
1.
Learn naturally with Salute, Jonathan!
2.
Search the dictionary in multiple languages!
3.
Talk to others in the community!
What is Occidental?
The best way to think of Occidental is as a tidied-up common Western European. It's the French or the Spanish you wish you had learned in school, because it keeps the common vocabulary but removes the parts that make them difficult. For example, to form the simple past tense you change the r in the verb to a t. And to form the simple future tense, you put a va in front of it.
Yes, you just finished learning the simple past and future tenses. Try doing that in two sentences with a natural language.
But because it's a tidied-up common Western European, it also looks like it. English liberty and French liberté is libertá, English moon and Spanish luna is lune (think lunar), English sit and Italian sedere is seder (think sedentary).
It was created in 1922 in Tallinn, Estonia, reached its height in Europe just before World War II, went into decline and nearly died in the 1980s after which it came back to life.
See Wikipedia for more.
Learn
Salute, Jonathan! Natural Acquisition Course
Salute, Jonathan! Memrise Flashcards
Occidental Course in 10 Lessons (1929, updated 2019)
Grammatica de Interlingue by Dr. Fritz Haas
Buy a pocket-sized physical copy!
Curs de Occidental (Interlingue) by Ric Berger
L'OCCIDENTAL - Langue d'intercompréhension immédiate
Occidental for English Speakers - Thinking Method Course
INTERLINGUE FOR BEGINNERS by Wilfrid E. Reeve (1966)
Manual de Conversation e Corespondentie
Tools
Community Dictionaries with Search
Glosbe dictionary + translation
Search Wikipedia for examples texts
Search Cosmoglotta and dictionaries more for example texts
Verb Derivation Tool
Tatoeba phrase translations
Interlingue spellchecker for Firefox
Read
Cosmoglotta
Cosmoglotta (1927-1950, typed with updated orthography)
Modern Cosmoglotta (~2014) (example issue from December 2021)
            Helvetia
            
Helvetia (typed)
1928
1929
1930-1950
Li Jurnal IE-Munde
2010-2014
Pepper & Carrot webcomic
Story Translations (with lookup-on-highlight functionality)
The Day Boy and the Night Girl by George MacDonald
The Little Prince
Original Non-fiction
Universal Declaration del Jures Homan
Classic Culture by Vicente Costalago
History by Vicente Costalago
Geography by Vicente Costalago
Mathematics by Vicente Costalago
Original Fiction
Li sercha in li castelle Dewahl e altri racontas by Vicente Costalago
Antologie hispan by Vicente Costalago
Fabules, contes e mites by Vicente Costalago
Li tresor de Fluvglant by Vicente Costalago
New and free: Li Crimines de Cnocorran by Vicente Costalago
Folder of random stuff to read
Channels
Twitter List for accounts that use Occidental
Language Facebook Page
Official Language Union Website
Community
Forums
Facebook Group
Email List
Subreddit
Instant Messaging
Note: All of these chat rooms are bridged together via Matrix, so you only need to join one.
Telegram
Matrix
Discord
Frequently Asked Questions
 What about Interlingua, Esperanto, Lingwa de Planeta, and other Auxlangs? What sets Occidental apart from the rest?
All auxlangs are made with the best of intentions and deserve respect. Out of the hundreds and even thousands of proposed projects, the ones mentioned above are some of the very few that have ever managed to achieve an active user base, and that makes them unique.
Having said that, what makes Occidental unique is the following: 
It looks like a natural language. Most people conclude it must be a dialect similar to Catalan or Occitan, spoken in the area between Spain and France. And that means that:
It's remarkably easy to read. About one or two billion people can work their way through an Occidental text without ever having seen one before.
However, it's still a language created to be as easy as possible. It's a language that you can learn in a few weeks and come out knowing how to read a lot of related languages like Italian and French without having studied them before. And as the next question shows, you’ll come out knowing a lot more about English too.
Some of the auxlangs above have an appearance as natural as Occidental, and others have a grammar as (and even a little bit more) regular. But no language has managed to blend a natural look and regular grammar as well as Occidental has. That's why it took its creator 30 years to put it together.
 I learned about Interlingua first and Occidental (Interlingue) looks really similar to it. Why do people choose Occidental over Interlingua?
By and large it is a bad idea to talk down other planned languages. They all have their own adherents who join them for perfectly good reasons, and their own reasons for staying as well. Nevertheless, Occidental/Interlingue and Interlingua have such a close history that mentioning one often results in being questioned about the other.
There was a mass movement of Occidentalists to the well-funded and New York-based Interlingua in the 1950s (Occidental being poorly-funded and based in post-war Europe). Then there was a similar movement in the opposite direction after the advent of the internet. People who gave Esperanto a try, then gave naturalism a try with Interlingua, eventually discovered that it was Occidental that they were looking for all along.
Part of this comes from the passage of time: Europe is no longer a war-torn continent and the original funding for Interlingua has long since dried up (along with the buzz it had in the 1950s). What is left are two languages with fairly active communities that are now only judged on their own merit.
So without getting into too much detail, Occidental is for many of us what we hoped Interlingua would be when we were first attracted to it - a planned language that is mostly understandable at first sight, charming and pleasant to look at and listen to, and regular and easy to learn.
What does regular and easy to learn mean? The clearest difference is probably seen in De Wahl's Rule which regularizes the creating of words from all verbs except six exceptions, while in Interlingua...the student has a lot more to memorize.
For more details, we will be adding articles from the old issues of Cosmoglotta in the 1950s as they are discovered. They can be seen below.
THE MOTE AND THE BEAM (Schematism and naturalism in international languages)
 Why should I spend time learning Occidental instead of a natural language?
Occidental can be thought of as the simplified and tidied up quintessence of the Western European languages, or rather Europe’s Greco-Roman heritage. The common vocabulary is connected but hidden, and Occidental makes it visible. Take the word father for example. Why is it patre and not some other word? It’s because it serves the key role in words related to it that we all know.
patre  (patr·e) father
patria (patr·ia) homeland (fatherland)
expatriate (ex·patr·ia·t·e) expatriate (ex means out, from, or out from)
patriarch (patr·i·arch) patriarch
patriot (patr·i·ot) patriot
patriotisme (patr·i·ot·isme) patriotism
repatriation (re·patr·i·a·t·ion) repatriation
Now in other languages this is hidden: patre is père in French (the t is gone), padre in Spanish. But when we get to the derived terms, we see the t come back. This is the ingrained common root that Occidental uses.
Occidental
French
Spanish
patre
père
padre
expatriate
expatrié/é
expatriado/a
patriarch
patriarche
patriarca
patriot
patriote
patriota
patriotisme
patriotisme
patriotismo
repatriation
rapatriement
repatriación
When you know Occidental, the common roots simply become visible in a way excelled by maybe only Latin. Have a look over the following list and see just how clear the vocabulary becomes when expressed in Occidental.
Intervalle (interval), formed from inter (between) and valle (mound, bulwark). Literal meaning: a "between-walls”.
Ínevitabil (inevitable), formed from ín (reverses the meaning), evitar (to evade) → evit·abil. Literal meaning: “un-evade-able”.
burgeonant (burgeoning): a burgeon is a bud in Occidental. Then verbalized as burgeonar → burgeona·nt
vernal (vernal): Think of the vernal equinox, the day in March when day and night are of equal length and spring officially begins. In Occidental verne means spring
radicalisme (radicalism): the word radica means root. A radical is someone “rooted” in an ideology.
seculari (secular): a secul is a century in Occidental. -ari turns it into an adjective meaning something of this era (something that is a product of its time).
nomination (nomination): a nómine is a name. This one is easy: a nomination is literally a “naming”.
 So when you read Occidental, you have a stronger idea of what the words mean?
That's right. It's almost as if English looked like this, with hints everywhere about the meaning of the words we use everyday:
Morning! How was your break fast?
Pretty good. Nothing like breaking your fast with ham and eggs.
Hey, do we have to work to morrow? Isn't to morrow a holyday?
Let's see...to morrow is Odinsday, right?
No, that's to day! So to morrow is Thorsday.
Oh right. Any way, the holy day is on Freyday though. Two days left.
You know what I hate though? Moonday.
Lol, every body hates Moonday. That's no thing special.
Hey, what do you think of the nameinee for the election this year?
They shouldn't have nameinated him, in my opinion.
Sure, but that's what a nameination is, right?
I guess. He said he'd increase taxes for people with as much in come as you.
Wait, what? Guys, can some body clearify what that means?
It means that making your tax declearation this year is going to suck.
But do I have to make a tax declearation even if I lived over seas last year? I was in Hispania.
Uh, may be. May be not? Ask the nameineee I guess. By the way, did you study hispanish when you were there?
I'm not very studyous, but I learned more than I thought I would. Hispanish people love it when you tell them you're learning.
 What about the uncanny valley?
It is a valid concern that Occidental is in the uncanny valley for Romance language speakers in particular. However, see this quote below:
The "Uncanny Valley" is much the same as what I've called the "Rube Effect": 
                a feature of a system that makes me feel illiterate for using it. [...] My point was that if 
                there is a slight resemblance between the new system and ones already 
                known, you can accept it as coincidence and use it as a mnemonic, but if the 
                resemblance is great, then any deviation will be perceived as an error.
Thus the "Romance" aspect of Esperanto is fairly low, so it doesn't bother me when it 
                does something non-Romance. But when Interlingua does something non-Romance, 
                such as not having multiple negation (which Occidental does allow), it not only 
                seems wrong, but almost deceptive: I feel set up, taken in by its Romance 
                appearance. Because Occidental doesn't look entirely Romance (the 
                pronoun "it," past tense in -t, "lass," "mey," etc.) I may find it annoying, 
                perhaps, but I don't feel deceived.
I once wrote that when you visit Interlingua, it answers the door in a Romance 
                mask, ushers you inside, exchanges pleasantries, and goes to get you some 
                tea. Then it pours the tea on your head and reverts to the mask. "Is 
                something wrong?"
When you visit Occidental, it resembles some Romance languages you've 
                known, but it looks more like a creole of Romance and English. It almost 
                immediately slaps you in the face, says, "I'm not Romance," and then invites 
                you in and is a gracious host. In other words, it establishes independence 
                early on, and you either accept it or leave. Interlingua maintains a Romance 
                guise most of the time, only to do something really alien when you aren't 
                expecting it.
This is why I kept seeing native speakers of Romance languages trying to fix 
                Interlingua: when you try something that seems odd, even though the grammar may 
                specifically permit it, you're wrong. You cannot really say "Ille vide me," even 
                though it's technically allowed (it is completely acceptable as "Il vide me" in 
                Occidental). 
Steve Rice in Auxlang Listserv
 Esperanto and other auxlangs only use a few suffixes to form words while Occidental has quite a few. Why not use fewer?
The suffixes in Occidental are in fact already present in Esperanto and similar languages (substanco, direktoro, sentimento, spekulativa, etc.). The difference is that in Occidental these are regularly formed using its own internal rules (sub + star + -ntie = substantie, directer + -or = director, sentir + -ment = sentiment, specular + de Wahl's rule + iv = speculativ, etc.) and do not need to be imported as foreign loanwords. [More details]
 What if we need to create new words today?
Occidental was created to follow a natural evolution similar to the natural languages, where usage or lack of it decides the fate of a word. And Occidental's large body of literature and wealth of suffixes taken from the natural languages makes the creation of new words easy.
Here for example is an article published in 1948 on atomic theory in Occidental when the field was completely new, showing how easily it dealt with the new nomenclature with words such as atomic (atom·ic), ionisation (ion·isar -> ion·isa·t·ion), resonantie (re·son·ar -> re·sona·nt·ie), and so on. 
Because of this, the best way to create new words is to simply learn the language well.
On top of this, Occidental does not require any specific endings for words so international words can generally be imported without change.
            
 Occidental looks very Romance. Does a word in Occidental have to match a Romance word to be correct?
Not at all. Occidental tends to form words that either match an existing international word, are very close to one, or one that other languages could have created themselves but simply have not. 
We do not hesitate to form words like “ludette, plorada, substantival, pruntation, credaci, perdibil, leonello, musicastro, plumallia, tassade, sucrage, glotton, stridore, hesitatori, successosi, flexura” etc. etc. without asking ourselves whether these words are international or not...They always represent forms that living languages would have been able to produce using their own means.
Alphonse Matejka in  Autonomie e Regularita in li Lingue International (1948)
 How can I get involved with the Occidental language and contribute?
The fun thing about Occidental as a newly-revived language is that you can start to contribute to it and give it new life pretty quickly after getting the basics down. On top of that, because it is also an auxlang with a long history, it has a lot of existing content and established infrastructure that new languages are still working on.
That means it has: 
A Wikipedia that you can contribute to.
It has its own Wiktionary, but you can also add the Occidental equivalents to words on Wiktionaries in other languages as well. See the translations in airport, for example.
In Glosbe you can add words and translation memories. Translation memories are very important as they show how a word works in practice. Here is one example. To add translation memories you can go through the back issues of Cosmoglotta here and look for sentences to translate into English or your own language.
You can add sentences to Tatoeba as well. As of August 2019, Occidental (Interlingue) has over 6000 phrases and is in 50th place.
You can translate some of the content from the English Wikipedia page on Interlingue into your own language. This page was recently added to and has become 5 times larger and more detailed than it was a year ago, so there is a lot of new information to translate into other languages.
And of course, just by learning the language and interacting with the community, you are contributing!
            © 2020
          
 Contribute on GitHub