Late Middle Ages Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Late Middle Ages11,150 FollowersRecent papers in Late Middle AgesTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleCommunautés religieuses, justice et sociétés Xe Colloque international Colloque international du CERCOR du CERCORSave to LibraryDownloadby Sebastien Fray•  17  Modern History, High Middle Ages, Late Middle Ages, Medieval HistoryFisionomia sociale e identità politica dei gruppi dirigenti popolari nella seconda metà del Duecento. Spunti di riflessione su un tema classico della storiografia comunalistica italianaL’affermazione dei regimi popolari alla metà del duecento rappresentò un’importante cesura nell’evoluzione politico-istituzionale dei comuni dell’Italia centro-settentrionale e nel processo di formazione e consolidamento dei gruppi... moreL’affermazione dei regimi popolari alla metà del duecento rappresentò un’importante cesura nell’evoluzione politico-istituzionale dei comuni dell’Italia centro-settentrionale e nel processo di formazione e consolidamento dei gruppi dirigenti cittadini. Ciò nonostante, la storiografia comunalistica della seconda metà del novecento ha avuto la tendenza a sminuire l’originalità e la carica innovativa delle esperienze popolari sottolineando piuttosto la permanente centralità politica, economica ma soprattutto culturale dell’antica aristocrazia cittadina. Questo articolo prende in considerazione alcuni importanti comuni di Popolo – Firenze, Siena, Pisa, Bologna, Perugia – cercando di dimostrare come taluni elementi tradizionalmente portati a sostegno dell’interpretazione «continuista» delle vicende tardoduecentesche si prestino anche ad una lettura alternativa che metta piuttosto in luce la novità dell’esperimento politico e culturale portato avanti dai gruppi dirigenti popolari.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alma  Poloni•  14  Late Middle Ages, Social Identity, Italian Studies, Medieval StudiesKnowledge of Disappeared Villages in Bohemia from Early Middle Ages till 20th CenturyThe article describes the development of research of the deserted village settlement from the early Middle Ages to the 20th century. It mentiones the most important researched localities and the methods of non-destructive research. The... moreThe article describes the development of research of the deserted village settlement from the early Middle Ages to the 20th century. It mentiones the most important researched localities and the methods of non-destructive research. The article describes also the currect trends of research in the field of new documentation methods (lidar), use of environmental archeology and finally the research of villages deserted since 1945.Save to LibraryDownloadby Petr Menšík•  8  Late Middle Ages, Village Studies, Modernity, Early Middle Ages (History)Aperçus sur la coseigneurie en Comtat Venaissin (XIIe-XVe siècles) 2010Save to LibraryDownloadby Germain Butaud•  9  Late Middle Ages, Landed Nobility, Nobility, Medieval FrancePRIETO SAYAGUÉS, Juan A., "Poder regio y control del espacio: monarcas y monasterios de Castilla (c. 1312-1390)", Hispania Sacra, Volumen LXIX, Nº 139, enero-junio de 2017, pp. 117-131En los reales monasterios, los monarcas no sólo proyectaron su poder, sino que redujeron el de la nobleza y los prelados seculares a través de las fundaciones monásticas, la concesión de privilegios y la participación en las reformas. Se... moreEn los reales monasterios, los monarcas no sólo proyectaron su poder, sino que redujeron el de la nobleza y los prelados seculares a través de las fundaciones monásticas, la concesión de privilegios y la participación en las reformas. Se sirvieron de los mismos para dar solución a las despoblaciones y allí se albergaron los reyes y sus huéspedes y se celebraron ceremonias políticas. Los religiosos ocuparon cargos cortesanos, ejercieron como embajadore y colaboraron en los episodios bélicos.In royal monasteries, monarchs not only projected their power, but they also reduced that of nobility and secular prelates through monastic foundations, the granting of privileges and their participation in reforms. Monarchs saw monasteries as a solution to depopulation, and in them kings and their guests were housed, and political ceremonies were held. Religious men occupied posts at court, served as ambassadors and participated in military confrontationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Juan A. Prieto Sayagués•  5  Late Middle Ages, Kingship (Medieval History), Religious congregations and monastic orders, Patronage (History)(zus. mit ALMUTH MÄRKER) Hunc tercium conscripsi cum maximo labore occultandi. Schwester N von Helfta und ihre 'Sonderausgabe' des Legatus diviniae pietatis Gertruds von Helfta in der Leipziger Handschrift Ms 827, in: Beiträge zur Geschichte der deutschen Sprache und Literatur 137 (2015), 248-296This article presents a manuscript that significantly enriches the textual corpus of ›Helfta Mysticism‹ with a series of hitherto unknown writings. Aside from this, it contains what is by some distance the oldest copy of the ›Legatus... moreThis article presents a manuscript that significantly enriches the textual corpus of ›Helfta Mysticism‹ with a series of hitherto unknown writings. Aside from this, it contains what is by some distance the oldest copy of the ›Legatus divinae pietatis‹, in the form of a ›special edition‹ that consists of excerpts from the known text as well as new material. This is preceded by a prologue and a florilegium which is marked in an epilogue as Gertrude’s own work. We argue that the epilogue of the florilegium, the prologue and the ›special edition‹ itself were probably composed by ›Sister N‹ of Helfta herself. The article provides a full description of the manuscript (Ms 827), a breakdown of the new ›special edition‹ of the ›Legatus‹-text, and an edition, translation, and close reading of the prologue.  Im Folgenden soll eine Handschrift vorgestellt werden, die die Textbasis der Helftaer Mystik mit einer Reihe von bislang unbekannten Schriften bereichert. Außerdem enthält sie die mit Abstand älteste Abschrift des ›Legatus divinae pietatis‹ in Form einer ›Sonderausgabe‹, die aus Exzerpten aus dem bekannten Textcorpus und aus weiterem bislang nicht bekanntem Material besteht. Dieser geht eine Vorrede und ein im Epilog als Gertruds Werk ausgewiesenes Florilegium voraus, Texte, die wie die ›Sonderausgabe‹ selbst von Schwester N von Helfta stammen dürften. Die vorliegende Studie bietet eine Beschreibung von Ms 827, die Aufschlüsselung der ›Sonderausgabe‹ des ›Legatus‹ sowie Abdruck, Übersetzung und inhaltliche Analyse der Vorrede.Save to LibraryDownloadby Balázs J . Nemes•  62  Women's Studies, Medieval Literature, Late Middle Ages, Women's HistoryComuni senza comunità. Villaggi scomparsi, iniziative comunitarie e progetti imprenditoriali in Val Seriana superiore nel XIV e XV secoloSave to LibraryDownloadby Alma  Poloni•  7  Late Middle Ages, Venetian History, Mountain communities, Deserted Medieval VillagesThe Marginalisation and Misunderstandings of Late-medieval English Transi MemorialsThis paper explores the marginalisation and misunderstandings of the 38 English late-medieval carved cadaver memorials, generally known as transi tombs, and suggests a reason for why this might be the case in modern society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christina Welch•  6  Art History, Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Medieval ArchaeologyNAJERA 13th INTERNATIONAL MEETINGS OF THE MIDDLE AGES IN NAJERA / XIII ENCUENTROS INTERNACIONALES DEL MEDIEVO EN NAJERALa XIII edición está dedicada a "Trabajar en la Ciudad Medieval Europea"(Nájera. Spain, 10-11 de noviembre 2016)The 13th edition is devoted to "Working in the Medieval City in Europe"10-11, November 2016Save to LibraryDownloadby Jesús Ángel Solórzano-Telechea•  7  Economics, Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Medieval StudiesXVII Encuentros Internacionales del Medievo de Nájera / 17th International Meetings of the Middle Ages in NajeraLos Encuentros Internacionales del Medievo de Nájera se vienen planteando como un congreso internacional en el ámbito de estudio y difusión de la Historia Medieval desde su creación en el año 2003. Debido a la pandemia del COVID’19 la... moreLos Encuentros Internacionales del Medievo de Nájera se vienen planteando como un congreso internacional en el ámbito de estudio y difusión de la Historia Medieval desde su creación en el año 2003. Debido a la pandemia del COVID’19 la edición de este año se desarrollará de forma virtual. La ciudad atlántica, surgida en la Edad Media, se fundamentó sobre una serie de factores, tales como las condiciones geográficas, las infraestructuras y unas sociedades muy dinámicas, pero también a que, en los centros portuarios atlánticos, en su mayor parte periféricos por su ubicación, las políticas urbanas adoptaron unas características comunes y distintas de las ciudades del interior del continente, cuyas estrategias económicas nos proponemos analizar en este congreso.The theme for this year’s meetings is Economic policies and strategies in the Medieval Atlantic City. Atlantic city, arose in the Middle Ages, was based on a series of key factors -such as the geographical features, infrastructures and very dynamic societies-, but also because urban policies adopted, in those peripheral cities due to its geographical location, some common and different characteristics from the cities of the interior of the continent, whose economic policies and strategies we are proposing to analyze in this conference.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jesús Ángel Solórzano-Telechea and +7Raúl  González ArévaloGisela  NaegleDaniel Ríos ToledanoMichael LimbergerCatarina RosaLorenzo Lage EstrugoFernando Martín Pérez•  19  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Early Modern History, Maritime HistoryVon Deutgeistern und anderen Versatzstücken. Das Nachleben des mittelalterlichen Fronleichnamsspiels im Heiligen Grab des Klosters Neuzelle (zusammen mit Ursula Röper)Bau- und ritualgeschichtliche sowie literarisch-formgeschichtliche Einordnung Heiligen Grabes  (Kloster Neuzelle, Brandenburg) in die Fronleichnamstradition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hans Juergen Scheuer•  8  Medieval Literature, Theatre History, Late Middle Ages, Medieval German LiteratureChłopi i pieniądze na przełomie średniowiecza i czasów nowożytnychSave to LibraryDownloadby Piotr Guzowski•  7  Economic History, Late Middle Ages, Early Modern History, Polish HistoryIl secondo popolo: conflitti e ricambio politico nei comuni popolari nei decenni tra Due e TrecentoSave to LibraryDownloadby Alma  Poloni•  14  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Italian Studies, Medieval StudiesIl comune di popolo e le sue istituzioni tra Due e Trecento. Alcune riflessioni a partire dalla storiografia dell'ultimo quindicennioIn recent years, the period between ca. 1280 and 1330 has attracted a growing interest among scholars who study Italian communes. As regards in particular the greatest popular communes, a specific attention to institutional dynamics has... moreIn recent years, the period between ca. 1280 and 1330 has attracted a growing interest among scholars who study Italian communes. As regards in particular the greatest popular communes, a specific attention to institutional dynamics has allowed to develop a complex model to explain the transformations of the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries. However, there remain some difficulties in understanding fully the nature of the political conflicts that marked that phase. Popolani and magnati, guelphs and ghibellines, popolo grasso and popolo minuto, bianchi and neri: urban communities were traversed by multiple and overlapping lines of fracture, in a process of decomposition and recomposition of political identities in which horizontal “class” solidarities, family solidarities, conflicts of interest, clientelist logics and ideological claims acted simultaneously. The article puts forward the idea that a better understanding of these conflicts, of their protagonists – groups, families, individuals – and their political and discursive strategies would improve our ability to read the institutional evolution of the popular communes between the end of the thirteenth and the beginning of the fourteenth centuries.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alma  Poloni•  15  Late Middle Ages, Italian Studies, Medieval Studies, Medieval urban historyIl Medioevo, l’età dell’oro di Cividale, in Tabulae pictae. Pettenelle e cantinelle a Cividale fra Medioevo e Rinascimento,  a cura di M. d’Arcano Grattoni, Silvana, Milano 2013, pp. 18-23."Cos’era Udine agli occhi di un cividalese del Quattrocento, se non una ‘neonata’ irriverente? Partendo da questa domanda provocatoria, il saggio delinea lo sviluppo e la storia di Cividale durante il Medioevo da un’angolatura diversa:... more"Cos’era Udine agli occhi di un cividalese del Quattrocento, se non una ‘neonata’ irriverente? Partendo da questa domanda provocatoria, il saggio delinea lo sviluppo e la storia di Cividale durante il Medioevo da un’angolatura diversa: quella del conflitto latente che la contrappose a Udine per la maggior parte del tempo.  Come sottolinea il titolo del saggio, si tratta di un percorso che inizia in età tardo antica, quando ‘Forum Iulii’ strappò ad Aquileia la palma di capitale, e si conclude al tramonto del Medioevo, quando quella che ormai si chiamava ‘Civitas Austriae’ cedette il primato a Udine. Dapprima come ‘forum’ romano, quindi come ducato longobardo, e più oltre, in età carolingia, quando è attestata l’esistenza di una scuola capitolare, nei secoli centrali del Medioevo Cividale del Friuli crebbe fino a divenire la sede prediletta dei patriarchi aquileiesi. E fu proprio il rapporto con alcuni presuli – in particolare da Bertoldo di Andechs Merania in poi – a contrapporre l’antica ‘città ducale’ alla nuova ‘terra’ di Udine. Un continuo rivaleggiare che non si esaurì nemmeno con la sottomissione a Venezia (1419-21) e che, anzi, inseguì i primati già nella decorazione delle insegne che celebravano la Serenissima."Save to LibraryDownloadby Elisabetta Scarton•  19  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Urban HistoryLa Chaise-Dieu Communauté monastique et congrégation (XIe siècle-fin de l’Ancien Régime) IXe colloque international du CERCORSave to LibraryDownloadby Centre Européen de Recherche sur les Congrégations et les Ordres Religieux  (LEM CERCOR UMR 8584)•  31  Modern History, Music History, High Middle Ages, Late Middle AgesReconstructing medieval eroded landscapes of the north-eastern Zuyder Zee (the Netherlands): a refined palaeogeographical time series of the Noordoostpolder between a.d. 1100 and 1400This paper considers large-scale erosion of late medieval peatland landscapes along the inland lagoon rims of the north-eastern Zuyder Zee area (today: Noordoostpolder, the Netherlands) and integrates palaeogeographical reconstruction,... moreThis paper considers large-scale erosion of late medieval peatland landscapes along the inland lagoon rims of the north-eastern Zuyder Zee area (today: Noordoostpolder, the Netherlands) and integrates palaeogeographical reconstruction, material archeological and spatial archaeohistorical research. The dynamic regional history of coeval loss of peaty coastal plains and boom of maritime activities is studied from archaeological, geological and historical data perspectives. In the first half of the Middle Ages (a.d. 500–1000), vast peatlands and interconnected lakes characterised the study area. During the late Middle Ages (a.d. 1000–1500), increased storm surges and tidal incursions allowed for extensive progressive erosion of inhabited peatlands, transforming the central Netherlands into the Zuyder Zee tidal lagoon. In the north-eastern quadrant of the expanding water body, medieval terrestrial geological and archaeological records fell prey to erosion, re-working and uptake into lagoon-floor deposits. These deposits have been intensively surveyed since the 1940s when the quadrant was reclaimed and made into arable land, and are revealed to contain spatially clustered late medieval archaeological objects. Whereas lagoon floor re-working has hindered making a detailed palaeogeographical reconstruction based on geological data alone, including the mapping of archaeology has helped resolve the pacing of lagoon expansion. The key to resolving the lost peatland palaeogeography for the time frames 1100 and 1400, was to put the archeological data density patterns first and geological lagoon-floor facies descriptions second in process order, while for earlier periods or other regions the opposite order is the convenient choice. We present a map series beginning with an updated map for a.d. 900 (the youngest geological reconstruction), introducing the first detailed palaeogeographical maps for 1100 and 1400 (honouring the late medieval terrestrial and maritime archaeological evidence) and ending with a landscape reconstruction for 1600 (complying with the oldest historical maps of the lagoon), revealing the intertwined landscape history of land and sea as the backdrop for shifts in the human use of both.Save to LibraryDownloadby Theo  Spek and +2Yftinus van PoptaKim M Cohen•  18  History, Physical Geography, Palaeogeography, ArchaeologyMnoga lica i značenja srednjovjekovlja: baština prošlosti i suvremeni identitet (Diverse Facets and Meanings of the Middle Ages: Legacy of the Past and Contemporary Identity)A period in history which the Renaissance scholars pejoratively called the «Middle Ages» was marked by the emergence of Europe— the rise and development of the Western civilisation. The centuries from the fourth to the fifteenth proved... moreA period in history which the Renaissance scholars pejoratively called the «Middle Ages» was marked by the emergence of Europe— the rise and development of the Western civilisation. The centuries from the fourth to the fifteenth proved essential for the moulding of today's Europe, but equally so for Croatia, as they witnessed the adoption of specific cultural values and the concentration of extraordinary creative and intellectual energy. The Middle Ages represent the foundations of the processes that followed, their proper understanding being possible only by tracing them to their medieval roots. It was then that Europe acquired its main features: the unity that was effectuated through the Christianity and culture, the opulence of differences, the schism between the East and West, deep-seated contrasts between the North and South, growth of institutions and diverse government bodies, technological and scientific advances, the value of labour and the rise of productivity, affirmation of the new.The medieval period, however, is often erroneously described as 'dark', 'spiritually and materially backward', 'barbarian', 'a period of obscurantism and persecution', etc. On the other hand, there exists just as distorted romantic perception of the Middle Age as a period of idealism epitomised by chivalry, 'courtly love', monastic mysticism and asceticism, along with most refined human virtues. Apart from the bipolar view, some historians tend to refer to this thousand-year time span as a period of immobility. The truth lies elsewhere: it was a period of profound changes and reforms. The Middle Ages are characterised by a complexity and diversity of facets and meanings. Moreover, this period is defined through a coexistence of different identities, features and phenomena that together create a medieval world. It is more than an interesting, exotic, if obsolete, world of the past—it is a living legacy. The surviving architectural achievements, artefacts and other material remains of the Middle Ages represent the core of European identity. Equally inherent in our today's life and world is its invisible spiritual legacySave to LibraryDownloadby Zdenka Janeković Römer•  26  History, European History, Cultural History, Medieval Philosophy1987. Een merkwaardig vroeg-17e-eeuwse glasvondst uit MiddelburgHeeringen, R.M. van, & H.E. Henkes 1987: Een merkwaardig vroeg-17e-eeuwse glasvondst uit Middelburg, Westerheem 36, 1987, 158-64 (ROB-overdrukken, 294).Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert M Van Heeringen•  7  Prehistoric Archaeology, Late Middle Ages, Glass, Medieval ArchaeologySébastien Nadot - Le spectacle des joutes. Sport et Courtoisie à la fin du Moyen Âge (compte rendu critique)Compte rendu critique de l'ouvrage de Sébastien Nadot sur les tournois, joutes, pas d'armes et emprises, qui est une version légèrement remaniée de sa thèse soutenue à l'Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales. Critical review of a... moreCompte rendu critique de l'ouvrage de Sébastien Nadot sur les tournois, joutes, pas d'armes et emprises, qui est une version légèrement remaniée de sa thèse soutenue à l'Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales.Critical review of a book written by Sébastien Nadot, based upon his thesis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vincent Belloy•  11  Late Middle Ages, Chivalry (Medieval Studies), Middle Ages, JoutesReseña del libro: "El otoño de la Edad Media en Castilla y Aragón", de Ezequiel Borgognoni.Desde el campo de la cultura y la política hispana, El otoño de la Edad Media en Castilla y Aragón ofrece un recorrido por los últimos años medievales en el tránsito hacia la temprana Modernidad para explicar el complejo proceso de... moreDesde el campo de la cultura y la política hispana, El otoño de la Edad Media en Castilla y Aragón ofrece un recorrido por los últimos años medievales en el tránsito hacia la temprana Modernidad para explicar el complejo proceso de conformación de estos reinos. Su autor, Ezequiel Borgognoni, es Doctor en Historia y Profesor de la Cátedra de Historia Medieval de la Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires. Así pues, a través de una perspectiva de larga duración, que no desdeña las vicisitudes y mutaciones que operan al nivel de la coyuntura, el libro está dividido en dos capítulos que abordan los cambios acaecidos en el espacio peninsular durante el denominado proceso de “Reconquista” llevado a cabo por los monarcas cristianos de los territorios aquí abordados.Save to LibraryDownloadby Martina Magali Diaz Sammaroni•  19  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Power and Authority in the Middle AgesQuellen zur Geschichte der Juden in der Mark Brandenburg. Zur Einführung [Sources regarding the history of the Jews in the Margraviate of Brandenburg. Introduction]Introduction to the mentioned editions [see sources]; focusing for example: the description of the sources’ provenance and the way they were recorded.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jörn R. Christophersen•  8  Late Middle Ages, Diplomatics (Medieval), Jewish - Christian Relations, Critical Edition (Medieval History)Geneva (1400-1600) in Oxford BibliographiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Mathieu Caesar•  6  Late Middle Ages, Reformation Studies, Protestantism, History of SwitzerlandMarking Time, Making Community in Medieval SchoolsThis article examines the nature of school days and school years in later medieval Western Europe and considers the societal functions of the temporal cultures that emerged. The forms of the school day and year in elementary and grammar... moreThis article examines the nature of school days and school years in later medieval Western Europe and considers the societal functions of the temporal cultures that emerged. The forms of the school day and year in elementary and grammar schools—alongside school- and youth-centered festivals—were replete with meaning and possessed utility beyond simple responses to environmental factors such as seasonal and meteorological changes. School authorities—whether ecclesiastical or municipal—saw the temporal cultures of medieval schools as a means to socialize children and to create and maintain collective community identities. By exploring a range of different traditions and regional variations, it is clear that the experience of the passage of time was imbued with meaning and social significance for medieval schoolchildren and their communities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah B Lynch•  6  Late Middle Ages, Medieval Children and Childood, Temporality (Time Studies), Middle AgesLes résidences des élites locales dans le duché de Bourgogne à la fin du Moyen Age, d’après l’exemple du bailliage d’AuxoisPrésentation à l'occasion de la journée d'étude sur les maisons, villages et châteaux du Moyen Âge et de la Renaissance comtoise organisée par l'association Franche-Bourgogne (http://www.franche-bourgogne.fr), à Vallerois-le-Bois... morePrésentation à l'occasion de la journée d'étude sur les maisons, villages et châteaux du Moyen Âge et de la Renaissance comtoise organisée par l'association Franche-Bourgogne (http://www.franche-bourgogne.fr), à Vallerois-le-Bois (Haute-Saône) le 4 mai 2013Save to LibraryDownloadby Matthieu Leguil•  14  Late Middle Ages, History of Elites, 15th Century Burgundy, Urban ElitesNederlandse ridderbroeders van de Duitse orde in Lijfland: herkomst, afkomst en carrières, Bijdragen en Mededelingen betreffende de Geschiedenis der Nederlanden 111 (1996) 1-29.... der Entwicklung des Deutschen Ordens im Mittelalter&amp;#x27;, in: ZH Nowak, ed., Ritterorden und Region ... Würzburg, 1958) 255-271; idem, &amp;#x27;Die inneren Wandlungen des Deutschen Ritterordens&amp;#x27;, in: Geschichte ... 11... more... der Entwicklung des Deutschen Ordens im Mittelalter&amp;#x27;, in: ZH Nowak, ed., Ritterorden und Region ... Würzburg, 1958) 255-271; idem, &amp;#x27;Die inneren Wandlungen des Deutschen Ritterordens&amp;#x27;, in: Geschichte ... 11 Verder heeft Sonja Neitmann, die voor de catalogus het voor Lijfland zo ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Johannes A Mol•  6  Military History, Late Middle Ages, Medieval Nobility, The military religious orders of the Middle Ages : the Hospitallers, the Templars, the Teutonic knights, and othersEarthquakes, society and politics in L’Aquila (14th-15th centuries)in D. Cecere et alii (ed.), Disaster Narratives in Early Modern Naples. Politics, Communication and Culture, Roma, Viella, 2018, pp. 93-108Save to LibraryDownloadby Pierluigi Terenzi•  11  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Italian (European History), Disaster StudiesAllevamento e caccia al castello di Santa Severa (Roma) durante il basso medioevo: mense signorili e popolari dal XIII al XIV secolo (2016)Breeding and hunting at the Santa Severa Castle (Rome) during the Middle Ages: the tables of the nobles and of the common people from the 13 th to the 14 th century Riassunto-Lo scavo del Castello di Santa Severa, iniziato nel 2006 e... moreBreeding and hunting at the Santa Severa Castle (Rome) during the Middle Ages: the tables of the nobles and of the common people from the 13 th to the 14 th century Riassunto-Lo scavo del Castello di Santa Severa, iniziato nel 2006 e portato avanti grazie al contributo volontario di appassionati e archeologi professionisti, ha condotto a risultati molto importanti per la conoscenza delle vicende storiche dell'area costiera a nord di Roma. L'ampio campione osteologico esaminato, 19093 resti, proviene in grande parte dallo scavo della piazza della Rocca, effettuato all'interno dell'edificio ecclesiastico. Sono state studiate le unità stratigrafiche che fanno parte del riempimento della parte conservata dell'edificio religioso, in particolare la zona absidale e il transetto. L'operazione di interro dell'edificio antico avvenuto per un altezza di circa 5 metri dopo la sistematica spoliazione di tutto il materiale lapideo e della pavimentazione, probabilmente necessario per essere riutilizzato nella costruzione di una nuova chiesa, deve essere avvenuta intorno alla seconda metà del XIV sec. in seguito ai lavori di sistemazione dell'area, con conseguente svuotamento di una serie di butti presenti nella zona interessata alle attività quotidiane. La ceramica presente negli strati dell'interro indica una datazione attribuibile ad un arco di tempo abbastanza ristretto, ascrivibile ad un periodo compreso tra il XIII e la prima metà del XIV sec. Sono stati analizzati i resti di mammiferi e uccelli (domestici e selvatici), pesci, tartarughe, e molluschi, che rappresentano i residui della attività di cucina della comunità che viveva nel borgo del castello. Summary-The excavation at the Santa Severa Castle that started in 2006 and continued with the help of enthusiastic volunteers and professional archaeologists, led to very important results for understanding the historical events of the coastal area North of Rome. The large osteological sample examined (19,093 remains) derives mostly from the excavation of piazza della Rocca within the religious building. The stratigraphic units that are part of the filling of the preserved portion of such building, especially the apse and the transept, have been studied. Around the second half of fourteenth century this ancient structure was covered for a height of about 5 meters after the systematic despoliation of all the stone materials and floors that have been probably reemployed for the construction of a new church; this occurred after the reorganization of the area and resulted in the clearing of a series of discard pits located in the part where daily activities were carried out. The pottery recovered in these layers indicates a fairly narrow time span, between the thirteenth and the first half of the fourteenth century. The remains of mammals, birds (domestic and wild), fish, turtles, and shellfish have been analyzed; these represent the residues of the cooking activities of the community living in the village of the castle. Cenni storici Il Castello di Santa Severa si trova nell'area costiera a nord di Roma, a circa 50 km dalla città. La posizione sul mare lo rende da sempre un sito di grande importanza strategica e paesaggistica, costruito al centro di una zona di ampie pianure costiere abitate dall'uomo da lungo tempo. Frequentata sin dal Paleolitico, molti sono i ritrovamenti di industrie riferibili al Neolitico, in selce e ossidiana proveniente da Palmarola e dalla Sardegna, che veniva probabilmente trasportata poi nelle aree più interne. La zona diviene importante soprattutto nel periodo etrusco. L'insediamento di Pyrgi si veniva a trovare su un altura stretta e allungata che in epoche antiche si elevava sulla pianura circostante e si protendeva verso la spiaggia e verso l'area trasformata poi in zona portuale. La ricchezza della città era ben conosciuta, nell'area dei templi era presente un centro di culto, ma anche un emporio dove transitavano merci e genti che provenivano da molte zone del Mediterraneo (Colonna 1970; Rovere et al. 2011; Frau 1990). Nel III sec. a.C. viene impiantata una colonia romana, un Castrum, protetto da mura poligonali, l'importanza del porto viene conservata e le sue strutture si sovrappongono a quelle di epoca etrusca sfruttandole e fortificandole ampliandoneSave to LibraryDownloadby Eugenio Cerilli and +1Marco Fatucci•  7  Late Middle Ages, Zooarchaeology, Archaeozoology, Hunting (Human Animal Relations)Odtworzone chorągwie grunwaldzkie w Zamku Królewskim na WaweluSave to LibraryDownloadby Magdalena Piwocka•  14  Late Middle Ages, Polish History, Heraldry and Vexillology, Decorative ArtsRobert Gramsch, Zerstörte oder verblasste Muster? Anwendungsfelder mediävistischer Netzwerkforschung und das Quellenproblem, in: Handbuch Historische Netzwerkforschung (2016), S. 85-99.The paper discusses the potential of Historical Network Research (HNR) in Medieval Studies with a special focus on the problem of the availability of sources. In particular, it identifies three research fields in which HNR will be a most... moreThe paper discusses the potential of Historical Network Research (HNR) in Medieval Studies with a special focus on the problem of the availability of sources. In particular, it identifies three research fields in which HNR will be a most promising approach to provide valuable new insights into the mechanisms of medieval society and politics: genealogy, prosopography of clerical and academic elites and political history. in: M. Düring / U. Eumann u.a. (Hgg.), Handbuch Historische Netzwerkforschung. Grundlagen und Anwendungen (Schriften des Kulturwissenschaftlichen Instituts Essen zur Methodenforschung, 1), Berlin u.a. 2016, S. 85-99.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Gramsch-Stehfest•  13  History, High Middle Ages, Late Middle Ages, Medieval HistoryCastelic et feheruuaru rea meneh hodu utu reaEine vorbeugende archäologische Freilegung im Komitat Tolnau auf dem Gebiet der mittelalterlichen Siedlung Kesztölc (2007) II. Am südlichen Teil von Várdomb in Verbindung mit den Rekonstruktionsarbeiten der Hauptstraße Nr. 56. wurden von... moreEine vorbeugende archäologische Freilegung im Komitat Tolnauauf dem Gebiet der mittelalterlichen Siedlung Kesztölc (2007) II.Am südlichen Teil von Várdomb in Verbindung mit den Rekonstruktionsarbeiten der Hauptstraße Nr. 56. wurden von den zwei Autoren eine vorbeugende archäologische Freilegung durchgeführt. Die einander teils berührenden Gebiete ergänzten gut das reiche Fundmaterial und die dazu gehörenden Beobachtungen. In der Türkenzeit wurde völlig zerstört und war beinahe bis heute unbewohnt. Dieses Gebiet wirft interessante Fragen bezüglich unserer mittelalterlichen Topographie auf. Der ehemalige Marktflecken Kesztölc war einst sogar größer als Szekszard und lag entlang der Heerstraße zwischen Eszék (Osijek) und Buda, aber heutzutage suchen wir seine Spuren vergebens auf der Landkarte. Die Siedlung wurde von den Türken nach der Schlacht in Mohács abgebrannt, ihre Bewohner haben den Ort endgültig verlassen und die einst berühmten, aus den Steinen des auf dem Kneipenhügel stehenden ehemaligen römischen Blockhauses gebauten Baulichkeiten wurden dem Erdboden gleichgemacht. Mangels Daten ließ man sich über 150 Jahren nur auf Mutmaßungen über dem genauen Platz des ehemaligen Marktfleckens ein, welche dann zahlreiche Diskussionen ausgelöst. Als Resultat der Freilegungen konnte man dann den Ort der auch in der Tihanyer Gründungsurkunde und in den Kroniken erwähnten, jedoch sogar auch auf der türkischen Miniatur dargestellten Siedlung bestimmen. Diese Studie legt als Fortsetzung des im Szekszarder Museumsjahrbuch im Jahre 2018 veröffentlichten Artikels weitere Informationen über die verbliebenen Objekte Nr. Q129–219 dar. Bei der Auswertung der archäologischen Beobachtungen konnten wegen des beschränkten Umfange nur zwei Themen über die Siedlung und das dargestellte Fundmaterial kurz erörtert werden, Die Klarstellung der Ausdrücke Kesztölc, zu CASTELIC, FEHERUUARU REA MENEH HODU UTU REA, sowie bis zum Wege zur KAZTELIC - welche Ausdrücke in der Tihanyer Gründungsurkunde in Verbindung mit der Frühzeit der Siedlung auch zweimal erwähnt – machen jetzt schon möglich, den einzigen und konkreten Ort der Siedlung zu bestimmen. Unter den Ruinen der am Anfang der Türkenzeit verwüsteten Siedlung steckten sich die vom Balkan angesiedelten Gruppen nur für kurze Zeit, die die Spuren ihrer eigenartigen Lebensweise und Kultur hinterlassen haben. So bilden die ohne Vermischung bewahrten mittelalterlichen ungarischen Töpferprodukte eine gut vergleichbare Basis zur Überprüfung der Wurzeln der späteren Volkskundenkeramik und die eigenartigen Geschirrvarianten der südslawischen Volksgruppen erregen die Aufmerksamkeit auf einen, bis heute kaum bekannten Teil der Geschichte des Süd-Transdanubiens.Save to LibraryDownloadby Géza  Szabó and +1Viktor Csányi•  3  Late Middle Ages, Ceramics (Archaeology), History of Hungarian LanguageReview/Rezension: Keller, Katrin/Viertel, Gabriele/Diesener, Gerald (Hrsg.), Stadt, Handwerk, Armut. Eine kommentierte Quellensammlung zur Geschichte der Frühen Neuzeit. Helmut Bräuer zum 70. Geburtstag zugeeignet, Leipzig 2008.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian  Speer•  10  Late Middle Ages, Critical Edition (Medieval History), Stadtbuchforschung, Upper Lusatia (Germany)She said she was called Theodore: Gender identities in the Legenda AureaThis thesis explores modalities in two hagiographical collections from the late Middle Ages; the Legenda Aurea and the Gilte Legende, by drawing inspiration from post-colonial hybridity theories. It conducts a close textual analysis by... moreThis thesis explores modalities in two hagiographical collections from the late Middle Ages; the Legenda Aurea and the Gilte Legende, by drawing inspiration from post-colonial hybridity theories. It conducts a close textual analysis by studying the use of pronouns in five saints’ legends where female saints transcend traditional gender identities and become men, and focuses on how they transcend, live as men, and die. The study concludes that the use of pronouns is fluid in the Latin Legenda Aurea, while the Middle English Gilte Legende has more female pronouns and additions to the texts where the female identity of the saints is emphasised. This is interpreted as a sign of the feminisation of religious language in Europe during the late Middle Ages, and viewed parallel with the increase of holy women at that time. By doing this, it underlines the importance of new words and concepts when describing and understanding medieval views on gender.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emmy Atterving•  16  Late Middle Ages, Hagiography, Medieval Studies, Postcolonial StudiesBaba lokva kasnosrednjovjekovno naseljeSave to LibraryDownloadby Marijeta  Babin and +1Ivana Anteric•  2  Late Middle Ages, Kasni Srednji VijekTALLAR I CREMAR. ASPECTES DE LA VIDA QUOTIDIANA EN TEMPS DE GUERRA, AL PALLARS, A LA FI DEL SEGLE XVJordi Bolòs, "Tallar i cremar. Aspectes de la vida quotidiana en temps de guerra, al Pallars, a la fi del segle XV", Enfrontaments civils: postguerres i reconstruccions. Segon Congrés Recerques, Recerques - Universitat de Lleida - Pagès... moreJordi Bolòs, "Tallar i cremar. Aspectes de la vida quotidiana en temps de guerra, al Pallars, a la fi del segle XV", Enfrontaments civils: postguerres i reconstruccions. Segon Congrés Recerques, Recerques - Universitat de Lleida - Pagès editors, Lleida, 2002, vol. I, p. 14-21.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jordi  Bolòs•  4  Late Middle Ages, History of Everyday Life, Medieval Warfare, History of  Medieval CataloniaThe parish church as a stage of eucharistic devotion and feast liturgical practices: The cases of Znojmo and KranjSave to LibraryDownloadby Aleš Mudra•  10  Late Middle Ages, Liturgy, Medieval Studies, EucharistLinking Court and Counties. The Governors and Stadholders of Holland and Zeeland in the Fifteenth CenturyWhen Holland and Zeeland were integrated in the Burgundian personal union, the court of the count disappeared in these counties . Instead. a regional administrative machinery was set up. in which the govemor,later called stadholder; was... moreWhen Holland and Zeeland were integrated in the Burgundian personal union, the court of the count disappeared in these counties . Instead. a regional administrative machinery was set up. in which the govemor,later called stadholder; was the most important officer.In the first years of Burgundian rule in Holland and Zeeland, the office of stadholder took shape. The office was based on predecessors in both the two counties as well as being modelled after French-Burgundian examples. In Holland and Zeeland the office developed out of a situation of crisis and war and found its final form after an unsuccessful experiment with a non-noble president. The stadholder replaced the count of Holland, that is the Burgundian duke, in allrespects. He was his lieutenant general and the subjects of Holland andZeeland regarded him as such. With the court at a distance, the stadholder was the most important link between the duke and his counties . He spoke the language of both the duke and his subjects in Holland and Zeeland. Moreover, he was a trustee of the duke and an expert in matters of justice, war and diplomacy. But he was not only formally the most important link between the regional and the supra-regional administrative level. Throughrelationships based on patronage and kinship, nearly all stadholders had strong ties with one or more persons at the court . Fundamentally, the regional administration, and especially the stadholder, was the link between the duke and his subjects. They were the perfect mediators between the Burgundian dukes with their ambitious plans on the one hand and the towns that wanted to keep their independence and privileges without paying too many subsidies, on the other. In a sense they were brokers who could provide their clients access to the patron (the duke). Through their formal and informal relations, they connected the central powers with regional and local interest groups.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mario Damen•  21  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Early Modern History, Medieval StudiesWords and Deeds. Shaping urban politics from below in late medieval EuropeSave to LibraryDownloadby Jelle Haemers•  4  Late Middle Ages, Urban History, History from Below, Political HistoryThe Oxford Handbook of Women and Gender in Medieval Europe, (Ed.) Judith M. Bennett & Ruth Mazo KarrasAn ambitious project with a beautiful outcome. At first glance the fields of women and gender during the medieval millennium seem vast and insuperable. This volume is a must for students of Gender and Women’s Studies. It also offers... moreAn ambitious project with a beautiful outcome. At first glance the fields of women and gender during the medieval millennium seem vast and insuperable. This volume is a must for students of Gender and Women’s Studies. It also offers interesting insights to the expert since so many different nuances are collectively addressed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Racha Kirakosian•  22  Queer Studies, Jewish Studies, Women's Studies, Feminist TheoryLake, R. J. (2009). Real Tennis and the Civilising Process. Sport in History 29 (4), 553-576.This article examines the social significance of Real Tennis among the Western European nobility during its heyday of the sixteenth century. Underpinned theoretically by Norbert Elias’s seminal empirical work The Civilising Process, this... moreThis article examines the social significance of Real Tennis among the Western European nobility during its heyday of the sixteenth century. Underpinned theoretically by Norbert Elias’s seminal empirical work The Civilising Process, this article seeks to identify the societal preconditions for the emergence of Real Tennis, and provide explanations for its diffusion across Western Europe and subsequent boom in popularity among the nobility. A critique is offered of the current body of literature written on Real Tennis, with an aim to address a general lack of focus on the game’s ‘social’ elements and how their development is linked with structural changes to the game over the centuries. The article then goes on to examine the ways in which Real Tennis became a symbol of prestige and a tool for social mobility among the increasingly status-competitive royal court nobility. Played during royal festivals, the game provided opportunities for nobles to engage in conspicuous consumption through architectural, clothing and gambling displays; having an entourage in accompaniment to the noble players; and, through the style of play and behavioural control, exhibiting self-restraint and foresight. Overall, an attempt is made to apply Elias’s theoretical framework to aid our understanding of the development of Real Tennis, a game that has never been characterised by overt ‘violence’ of the kind examined previously by other sociologists employing an Eliasian framework.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert J Lake•  28  Sociology of Sport, Late Middle Ages, Renaissance Studies, Sports HistoryGrowing up in medieval London: The experience of childhood in historySave to LibraryDownloadby Kristine Rabberman•  2  Late Middle Ages, Social HistoryEuropean monarchs of the 14th century and their influence on the development of the portrait.Save to LibraryDownloadby Liya Okroshidze•  11  Late Middle Ages, Courts, Painting, Medieval PortraitureBeata Kwiatkowska-Kopka, Maciej Zdanek, Domy opackie w klasztorach cysterskich w Małopolsce. Stań badań i zagadnienia konserwatorskieSave to LibraryDownloadby Maciej Zdanek•  15  Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Medieval Archaeology, Medieval Architecture"Francesco Talenti nel cantiere della cattedrale di Firenze: il completamento del campanile e la costruzione delle navate"Francesco Talenti è attestato per la prima volta nel cantiere della cattedrale di Firenze nel 1351, ma è probabile che ne fosse capomastro già nel 1341-1342, dopo la partenza di Andrea Pisano alla volta di Pisa. Sotto la direzione di... moreFrancesco Talenti è attestato per la prima volta nel cantiere della cattedrale di Firenze nel 1351, ma è probabile che ne fosse capomastro già nel 1341-1342, dopo la partenza di Andrea Pisano alla volta di Pisa. Sotto la direzione di Talenti furono costruiti gli ultimi tre piani della torre campanaria e fu edificato il corpo longitudinale della chiesa, con l'eccezione dei pilastri dell'incrocio e dell'ultima volta (verso est) della navata centrale, mantenendo la facciata e parte dei perimetrali nord e sud, che devono essere ricondotti alla fase arnolfiana. L'intervento si ripropone di chiarire le peculiarità del progetto talentiano rispetto a quello arnolfiano e di mettere a fuoco alcuni nodi problematici, suscitati dalla ricca documentazione dell'Opera di Santa Maria del Fiore e dall'incrocio tra le fonti scritte e il costruito.Save to LibraryDownloadby Simone Caldano•  20  Art History, Late Middle Ages, Medieval History, Construction TechnologyThe vegetal landscape of the farmlands to the southwest of Cordoba: a sample of the natural environment of Andalusia in the Late Middle AgesThe aim of this article is to analyse the natural plant population of the southwest of Cordoba and how it was affected by human action. To achieve this goal, several archives were searched and various species of trees, bushes, and other... moreThe aim of this article is to analyse the natural plant population of the southwest of Cordoba and how it was affected by human action. To achieve this goal, several archives were searched and various species of trees, bushes, and other plants that were exploited by the local communities between the thirteenth and fifteenth centuries have been identified. The article will demonstrate that these vegetal landscapes, which were characteristic of the southern regions of the Crown of Castile, were of great importance for nearby human communities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Javier López Rider•  18  History, Landscape Ecology, Late Middle Ages, Medieval HistoryPassion und Ostern in den Lüneburger Klöstern, proceedings of the VIII. Ebstorfer Kolloquium 2009, ed. Linda Maria Koldau, Ebstorf: Kloster Ebstorf, 2010The Northern German Lüneburger Klöster (or Heideklöster) are six interconnected women’s convents that were Benedictine and Cistercian communities up to the Reformation and then were transformed into Protestant monasteries for the... moreThe Northern German Lüneburger Klöster (or Heideklöster) are six interconnected women’s convents that were Benedictine and Cistercian communities up to the Reformation and then were transformed into Protestant monasteries for the daughters of the regional nobility. Until today, they exist as religious communities, now open to women from all strata of society. In the late 15th century, the general monastic reform in Northwestern Germany engendered a religious culture of great intensity and artistic diversity in the six convents, which is documented in a rich spectrum of architectonic, artistic, textile, liturgical, literary, and musical sources. The unique density and homogeneity of these sources give testimony of a monastic form of life that was entirely rooted in the Bible, the liturgy, and Christian faith and translated this fundament into various forms of artistic expression. – With Passion Tide and Easter, this collection of essays focuses on the central aspect in the Christian faith and the church year. As a time of deepest suffering and greatest joy, Passion and Easter have left numerous traces in the Lüneburg convents. Experts from the fields of monastic history, liturgy, late medieval literature, visual arts, textile arts, and musicology present central sources from the late 15th century and put them into the context of a late medieval monastic life that built entirely on the fundament of liturgy and the Bible. At the same time, the Lüneburg convents are presented as a cultural space that offered women special opportunities for a translation of religious beliefs into artistic expression.The book presents the proceedings of an interdisciplinary conference organized by Linda Maria Koldau at Kloster Ebstorf in March 2009.Save to LibraryDownloadby Linda Maria Koldau•  18  Gender Studies, Late Middle Ages, Liturgy, Monastic StudiesBältarsvennerna i StockholmI uppsatsen analyseras den enda bevarade svenska, medeltida gesällskapsstadgan, närmare bestämt bältargesällernas i Stockholm stadga. Gesällskapets förhållande till andra delar av yrkesgemenskapen undersöks, liksom dess organisation,... moreI uppsatsen analyseras den enda bevarade svenska, medeltida gesällskapsstadgan, närmare bestämt bältargesällernas i Stockholm stadga. Gesällskapets förhållande till andra delar av yrkesgemenskapen undersöks, liksom dess organisation, ceremonier och syfte.I resultaten utkristalliserar sig en tät, festande och tågande gemenskap, där gruppens vilja överordnades individens. Omsorgen om varandra var central och gällde såväl levande som döda bröder. Samtidigt tycks det ha funnits en grupp gesäller som stod utanför gesällskapet, men även de omfattades av dess omsorg.Ett ömsesidigt förtroende och möjlighet till förhandling tycks i någon mån ha funnits mellan gesällskapet och skrået. Relationen var dock på intet sätt jämlik: mästarna manifesterar tydligt sin makt i stadgan, inte minst genom synnerligen hårda straff.Save to LibraryDownloadby Felix Marklund•  6  Late Middle Ages, Middle Ages, Craft Guilds in Medieval and Early Modern Europe, Craft GuildsDes hourds aux lices : la place des dames dans les enluminures des tournois et pas d’armes aux XIVe et XVe siècles.Par l’intermédiaire d’une étude sérielle basée sur neuf manuscrits tirés d’œuvres romanesques, poétiques et encyclopédiques, nous tenterons de déterminer quelle place l’iconographie réserve aux dames représentées dans les enluminures de... morePar l’intermédiaire d’une étude sérielle basée sur neuf manuscrits tirés d’œuvres romanesques, poétiques et encyclopédiques, nous tenterons de déterminer quelle place l’iconographie réserve aux dames représentées dans les enluminures de tournois et de joutes à la fin du Moyen Âge.Nous considérerons les images au regard de leur contenu textuel en prenant également en compte les variations des motifs iconographiques présentes au sein de ce corpus. Ce faisant, nous nous intéresserons au statut sujet-agent de la dame, spectatrice des hourds ou cavalière des lices. Des tournois jusqu’aux pas d’armes, la dame évolue auprès d’une aristocratie masculine combattante et apparemment dominante. Une complexité émerge cependant de son statut figuratif et symbolique, construit entre un idéal chevaleresque imaginaire basé sur les vertus courtoises et morales, et les joutes, reflets d’ambitions culturelles au service d’un pouvoir politique réel.Save to LibraryDownloadby Audrey Pennel•  12  Gender Studies, Late Middle Ages, Sexuality and chivalry/courtly love, Manuscript StudiesKomik, Ernst und Mise en pageSave to LibraryDownloadby Christine Putzo•  8  Late Middle Ages, Codicology, Codicology of medieval manuscripts, RingNextLast »Related TopicsMedieval HistoryFollowFollowingMedieval StudiesFollowFollowingMedieval EuropeFollowFollowingMedieval Church HistoryFollowFollowingMedieval urban historyFollowFollowingMiddle AgesFollowFollowingLate Medieval HistoryFollowFollowingDiplomatics (Medieval)FollowFollowingMedieval ItalyFollowFollowingManuscripts (Medieval Studies)FollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023