Understanding Success Criterion  1.2.4: Captions (Live) | WAI | W3C
Skip to content
WCAG 2.2 Understanding Docs
Informative explanations, not required to meet WCAGAbout WCAG Understanding Docs
                        All Understanding Docs
                        
 Guideline: Time-based Media
Previous SC: Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
Next SC: Audio Description (Prerecorded)
Page Contents
Intent
Benefits
Examples
Related Resources
Techniques
Key Terms
Understanding 
                  SC 1.2.4:Captions (Live) (Level AA)
Success Criterion (SC) 
Captions are provided for all live
audio content in synchronized media.
                     
Intent
The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who are deaf or hard of hearing
                  to watch 
                  real-time presentations. Captions provide the part of the content available via the audio track.
                  Captions not only include dialogue, but also identify who is speaking and notate sound
                  effects and other significant audio.
                  
This success criterion was intended to apply to broadcast of synchronized media and
                  is not intended to require that two-way multimedia calls between two or more individuals
                  through web apps must be captioned regardless of the needs of users. Responsibility
                  for providing captions would fall to the content providers (the callers) or the “host”
                  caller, and not the application.
                  
Benefits
People who are deaf or have a hearing loss can access the auditory information in
                     the synchronized media content through captions.
                     
Examples
A Web cast
A news organization provides a live, captioned Web cast. 
A music Web cast
An orchestra provides Communication Access Realtime Translation (CART) captioning
                        of each real-time Web performance. The CART service captures lyrics and dialog as
                        well as identifies non-vocal music by title, movement, composer, and any information
                        that will help the user comprehend the nature of the audio.
                        
Related Resources
Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.
See 
                     1.2.2: Captions (Prerecorded).
                     
Techniques
Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination of techniques
                  that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting this Success Criterion. However,
                  it is not necessary to use these particular techniques. For information on using other
                  techniques, see Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria, particularly the "Other Techniques" section.
Sufficient Techniques
G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
AND
G93: Providing open (always visible) captions
G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
AND
G87: Providing closed captions using any readily available media format that has a video player that  supports closed
                        captioning 
                        
                        
G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
AND
G87: Providing closed captions using one of the following techniques:
                           
SM11: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in SMIL 1.0
SM12: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in SMIL 2.0
Note
Captions may be generated using real-time text translation service. 
                           
                           
                           
Key Terms
ascii art
picture created by a spatial arrangement of characters or glyphs (typically from the
                           95 printable characters defined by ASCII)
                           
assistive technology
hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent, or along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet the requirements
                           of users with disabilities that go beyond those offered by mainstream user agents
                           
Note
Functionality provided by assistive technology includes alternative presentations
                              (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified content), alternative input methods (e.g.,
                              voice), additional navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
                              (e.g., to make tables more accessible).
                              
Note
Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages with mainstream user agents
                              by using and monitoring APIs.
                              
Note
The distinction between mainstream user agents and assistive technologies is not absolute.
                              Many mainstream user agents provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities.
                              The basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and diverse audiences
                              that usually include people with and without disabilities. Assistive technologies
                              target narrowly defined populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
                              provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate to the needs
                              of its target users. The mainstream user agent may provide important functionality
                              to assistive technologies like retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing
                              markup into identifiable bundles.
                              
Assistive technologies that are important in the context of this document include
                              the following:
                              
screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which are used by people with
                                 visual, perceptual and physical print disabilities to change text font, size, spacing,
                                 color, synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual readability
                                 of rendered text and images;
                                 
screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read textual information
                                 through synthesized speech or braille;
                                 
text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with cognitive, language, and
                                 learning disabilities to convert text into synthetic speech;
                                 
speech recognition software, which may be used by people who have some physical disabilities;
alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities
                                 to simulate the keyboard (including alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single
                                 switches, sip/puff and other special input devices.);
                                 
alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities
                                 to simulate mouse pointing and button activations.
                                 
audio
the technology of sound reproduction
Note
Audio can be created synthetically (including speech synthesis), recorded from real
                              world sounds, or both.
                              
audio description
narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual details that cannot
                           be understood from the main soundtrack alone
                           
Note
Audio description of video provides information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen text, and
                              other visual content.
                              
Note
In standard audio description, narration is added during existing pauses in dialogue.
                              (See also extended audio description.)
                              
Note
Where all of the video information is already provided in existing audio, no additional audio description is necessary.
                              
Note
Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."
captions
synchronized visual and/or text alternative for both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand the media content
                           
Note
Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except captions convey not only the
                              content of spoken dialogue, but also equivalents for non-dialogue audio information
                              needed to understand the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
                              speaker identification and location.
                              
Note
Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and off with some players.
Note
Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off. For example, if the captions
                              are visual equivalent images of text embedded in video.
                              
Note
Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant information in the video.
Note
In some countries, captions are called subtitles.
Note
Audio descriptions can be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of information
                              that is already presented visually.
                              
extended audio description
audio description that is added to an audiovisual presentation by pausing the video so that there is time to add additional description
                           
Note
This technique is only used when the sense of the video would be lost without the additional audio description and the pauses between dialogue/narration are too short.
                              
human language
language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or tactile means) to communicate
                           with humans
                           
Note
See also sign language.
                              
image of text
text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in order to achieve
                           a particular visual effect
                           
Note
This does not include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.
                              
A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.
live
information captured from a real-world event and transmitted to the receiver with
                           no more than a broadcast delay
                           
Note
A broadcast delay is a short (usually automated) delay, for example used in order
                              to give the broadcaster time to cue or censor the audio (or video) feed, but not sufficient
                              to allow significant editing.
                              
Note
If information is completely computer generated, it is not live.
media alternative for text
media that presents no more information than is already presented in text (directly
                           or via text alternatives)
                           
Note
A media alternative for text is provided for those who benefit from alternate representations
                              of text. Media alternatives for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
                              video), or audio-video.
                              
non-text content
any content that is not a sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined or where the sequence is not expressing something in human language
Note
This includes ASCII Art (which is a pattern of characters), emoticons, leetspeak (which uses character substitution),
                              and images representing text
                              
programmatically determined
determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way that different
                           user agents, including assistive technologies, can extract and present this information to users in different modalities
                           
Determined in a markup language from elements and attributes that are accessed directly
                              by commonly available assistive technology.
                              
Determined from technology-specific data structures in a non-markup language and exposed
                              to assistive technology via an accessibility API that is supported by commonly available
                              assistive technology.
                              
sign language
a language using combinations of movements of the hands and arms, facial expressions,
                           or body positions to convey meaning
                           
synchronized media
audio or video synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or with time-based
                           interactive components, unless the media is a media alternative for text that is clearly labeled as such
                           
text
sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined, where the sequence is expressing something in human language
text alternative
Text that is programmatically associated with non-text content or referred to from text that is programmatically associated with non-text content.
                           Programmatically associated text is text whose location can be programmatically determined
                           from the non-text content.
                           
An image of a chart is described in text in the paragraph after the chart. The short
                              text alternative for the chart indicates that a description follows.
                              
Note
Refer to Understanding Text Alternatives for more information.
                              
user agent
any software that retrieves and presents Web content for users
Web browsers, media players, plug-ins, and other programs — including assistive technologies — that help in retrieving, rendering, and interacting with Web content.
                              
video
the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images
Note
Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or both.
 Back to Top
                  
 Help improve this page 
Please share your ideas, suggestions, or comments via e-mail to the publicly-archived
                  list group-ag-chairs@w3.org or via GitHub
E-mailFork & Edit on GitHubNew GitHub Issue
Date: Updated 13 July 2023.
Developed by Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) Participants (Co-Chairs: Alastair Campbell, Charles Adams, Rachael Bradley Montgomery. W3C Staff
               Contact: Michael Cooper).
The content was developed as part of the WAI-Core projects funded by U.S. Federal funds. The user interface was designed by the Education and
               Outreach Working Group (EOWG) with contributions from Shadi Abou-Zahra, Steve Lee, and Shawn Lawton Henry as part
               of the WAI-Guide project, co-funded by the European Commission.
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)
Strategies, standards, and supporting resources to make the Web accessible to people
                  with disabilities.
 Twitter
 Feed
 YouTube
Get News in Email
Copyright © 2023 World Wide Web Consortium (W3C®). See Permission to Use WAI Material.
Contact WAI
Site Map
News
Accessibility Statement
 Translations
Resources for Roles