Logo - Meta
Logo
From Meta, a Wikimedia project coordination wiki
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Wikimedia Meta-Wiki
About Meta
Discussion pages
Request pages
Policies and guidelines
Information and statistics
Categories
Help pages
Participate:
How to edit a page
Meta-Wiki discussion page
 This box: view · talk · edit 
Project logos are trademarks that serve as the identifying mark for that project and its components.  They serve to unify work on those projects, and help contributors identify with that project, across subprojects and language versions; online and offline, in banners and on sweet gear (stickers, ear tunnels, &c.) Logos of major Wikimedia projects are registered by the WMF to protect the projects and communities from clones or impostor sites that might deceive or harm users, or might otherwise cause confusion about the shared identity and goals of the Project.  
Contents
1 Current logos
2 Logo guidelines
2.1 Proposing new logos
2.1.1 Logo checklist
2.2 Temporary logo variants
2.3 Wikimedia movement affiliates logos
2.4 Designing new logos
3 Big version suitable for use in printed publications
4 Localisation
5 See also
Current logos[edit]
See wmf:Wikimedia official marks for details about the logos.
Project: Meta-Wiki
Author: commons:User:WarX
Legal status: Public domain
See also: Community Logo
Project: Wikimedia movement
Author: User:Neolux
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
Project: Wikimedia Commons
Author: User:Reidab.
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Commons:Logo
Project: Wikidata
Author: User:Planemad
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Voting contest
Project: Wikipedia (version  2.0)
Logo development: Wikipedia/Logo and c:Special:MyLanguage/Wikipedia/2.0
Authors:
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Wikipedia/Logo, Logo history, Errors in the Wikipedia logo
high-resolution: blueprint SVG
Project: Wiktionary
Author: w:User:Smurrayinchester
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
Project: Wikibooks
Author: User:Bastique, User:Ramac et al.
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
Project: Wikiquote
Author: User:Neolux
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
Remarks: variant A is on the English Wikipedia, Variant B is used on Wikiquote itself. Which is now the official logo? (The logo shown to the right is intended to be the official logo, A was just a quick draft - Neolux)
Project: Wikisource
Author: en:User:Zanimum
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Image:Wikisource-newberg-de.png, commons:Image:Iceberg.jpg, w:en:Iceberg, New Wikisource logo
Project: Wikispecies
Author: wikispecies:User:Zephram Stark (based on concept by en:User:Jeremykemp)
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Logo Concepts, w/English text
Project: Wikinews
Authors: User:Jasonp55 and User:David Vasquez
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Wikinews logo contest voting
Project: Wikiversity
Authors: User:Snorky and User:Julian Herzog
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Wikiversity/logo
Project: Wikimedia Incubator
Author: User:NielsF
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Voting contest
Project: Wikivoyage
Author: User:AleXXw
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
See also: Voting contest
Project: Wikimania
Author: User:Kaganer (bitmap version for Wikimania 2006), vectorized by User:Tlogmer
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
Project: Wikimedia Cloud Services
Author: User:Brandon Harris (bitmap and concept), vectorized by User:Isarra
Legal status: CC BY-SA 3.0
Project: MediaWiki
Author: User:Serhio Magpie
Legal status: CC BY-SA 4.0
Logo guideline: mw:Manual:MediaWiki logo guidelines
Project: Wikitech
Author: User:Serhio Magpie
Legal status: CC BY-SA 4.0
Project: Wikifunctions
Author: Based upon the submissions by User:NGC 54, User:Jon Harald Søby, and User:Stevenliuyi
Legal status: CC BY-SA 4.0
If you propose a new logo for a project please add the copyright tag {{CopyrightByWikimedia}} to the image description page. If you are the creator of one of the logos, please change the copyright on the image description page accordingly.
Logo guidelines[edit]
Proposing new logos[edit]
Don't change the logo on a project without a discussion with (at a minimum) the affected communities and the board. The logo identity of our websites is important for professionalism and consistency, to help end users be familiar with us, and we should be thoughtful about changes. Logos are global: All languages have to use the same logo, logo changes are possible on a project level only, but not for one language.
Since the Wikimedia logos are used in many different circumstances, a logo must scale well from great versions on flags to small favicons on the website. It must be substantially different from the other project logos but still harmonize with the others. 
If you propose a new logo for a Wikimedia project it must not be licensed under GFDL. Copyright should be transferred to the Wikimedia Foundation instead. It may be useful to review the Mozilla trademark policies to gain an initial understanding of the problems of trademarks licensed under the GFDL. It is our intention to license the logos in a manner consistent with our values, and a free-using license on a logo is legally a very baffling thing.
Logo checklist[edit]
Assign the copyright to the Wikimedia Foundation (Contact the General Counsel)
Submit all necessary formats
Wiki.png for the website
Vectorized version with text (SVG and EPS if possible, text should be embedded as graphic)
Vectorized version without text
Favicon
Submit a specification
Color specification in CMYK and RGB
Used fonts
Temporary logo variants[edit]
There have been a few instances of logos temporarily changed for holidays on some wikis. This practice is discouraged. The problem is: it is tough to do it well, in a way that doesn't conflict with our neutrality policies. To illustrate what this means: is a Christmas logo neutral towards religion? If the en.wikipedians voted for a US Flag logo on the 4th of July, would this be neutral? Obviously not. But this sort of consideration will come into play for almost every holiday, and for now, unless and until we find a way to come to consensus about it, this sort of temporary change should be avoided.
On the other hand, projects sometimes change their logo to celebrate significant milestones (for example, five/ten year anniversary, 100,000 or 1 million etc. articles). This practice is welcome, and even encouraged, to help projects celebrate.
Interface administrators should not override the logo with a temporary logo by editing MediaWiki:Common.css of their wiki, as this would make web browsers download both logos and would increase traffic (see phab:T256295#6496718 for technical details).
Instead, follow the instructions to request a logo change.
Wikimedia movement affiliates logos[edit]
Main article: Wikimedia movement affiliates logos best practices
Best practices for Wikimedia movement affiliate logo creation are provided by the Affiliations Committee based on the Wikimedia Foundation's visual identity guidelines (specifically in regards to the Wikimedia Foundation mark), the Wikimedia Foundation's trademark policy, input from Wikimedia Foundation's Legal and Community Advocacy and Communications teams, and input from the community.
Every movement affiliate is able to pick from three basic options:
Custom logo – may or may not include any Wikimedia logo component as permitted by the Wikimedia Foundation's trademark policy.
Wikimedia community logo variant – based on the Wikimedia community logo.
Wikimedia Foundation logo variant – below best practices provide information on how different types of movement affiliates logos may be based on the Wikimedia Foundation logo.
Designing new logos[edit]
Here are some best practices to keep in mind when designing a new logo for anything.
Must have
It must work well at different sizes
The logo should be clearly identifiable at very small sizes, e.g. the 16 x 16 pixel favicon used in web-browser tabs. A variation design can be used for the favicon, as with File:Wikidata Favicon color.svg
The logo should look good at very large sizes, e.g. when printed on posters, used as a Wikimania table banner, or projected on a large screen.
It must work well in color and in black & white
The logo should work well in a simple variation, e.g. in printed form.
Logos are legally registered in black and white, and must function as memorable single-color expressions.
It must use a reduced color palette
Avoid gradients that contain thousands of colors. Never use photos. This will enable good rendering in print or on low-resolution displays.
It must have suitable contrast for text color, and for light and dark background colors
Follow the WCAG guidelines for text contrast.
Consider how the logo will look on both white and black backgrounds, e.g. in dark-mode.
It must use a freely licensed typeface.
See Brand#Type for details
Provide the logo and the wordmark in separate files, as well as a combined file.
This will enable using the two elements in multiple ways, e.g. reversing the color of the wordmark on dark backgrounds.
Keep in mind
Specified color palette
Focus on a single color or a few specific colors that could be further used in other applications too, e.g. UI elements.
Color-blind friendly
Use a tool such as coblis-color-blindness-simulator to check how the logo appears for users with various forms of color-blindness.
Identification factor with the project
The logo could have some sort of literal or abstract connection to the project.
The logo should work well alongside any related logos.
Context-dependent
Wordmark capitalization
Software projects, e.g. Extensions, use CamelCase.
All other projects use Titlecase.
Big version suitable for use in printed publications[edit]
These great versions are suitable for use in printed publications.
Please refer to commons:Category:High-resolution or SVG official Wikimedia logos and commons:Category:High-resolution localized Wikimedia logos.
This section was outdated and has been blanked; see the history for previous situation.
Localisation[edit]
How can I get a version of the Logo for my Wikipedia?
See wmf:Wikimedia official marks/Word mark creation and Requesting wiki configuration changes.
See also Wikipedia in other languages, User:Cbrown1023/Logos and a somewhat more detailed description regarding setting up a new logo for Wikibooks.
See also[edit]
You can read the Logo history in prose or follow the links:
The OldWikiPediaLogo
The International logo contest
The International logo contest/Final logo variants
International logo contest/Final logo variants/Nohat
Copyrighted by Wikimedia (Commons)
Wikimedia movement affiliates logos best practices
Brand/logo
Logo discussions & votes
Discussion on the logo votes
Wikibooks
2006–2007 archive: pg.1, pg.2, pg.3, pg.4, pg.5
2008 archive: pg.1 pg.2 pg. 3 pg. 4 pg. 5
Wikijunior
Wikipedia
Wikiversity
Archive: pg.1, pg.2, pg.3, pg.4, pg.5, pg.6
2017 refresh: discussion
Wiktionary
2006 archive: pg.1, pg.2, pg.3, pg.4
2009 refresh: discussion, proposals, voting (round one, results or [1])(round two results or [2])
Wikivoyage
2013 change: process, round 1, review, round 2
Wikidata
MediaWiki
2020 change: process
Wikifunctions
Logo (current logos, guidelines, localisation)
+/-
Retrieved from "https://meta.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Logo&oldid=25448374"
Category: Logos
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Content pageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageWikimedia NewsTranslationsRecent changesRandom pageHelpBabel
Community
Wikimedia Resource CenterWikimedia ForumMailing listsRequestsBabylonReportsResearchPlanet Wikimedia
Beyond the Web
Meet WikimediansEventsMovement affiliatesDonate
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsMultilingual WikisourceWikidataWikipediaWikisourceWikiversity
In other languages
العربيةBosanskiEnglishفارسیBahasa IndonesiaJawa한국어МакедонскиNorskРусскийSvenskaاردو中文粵語
Edit links
 This page was last edited on 12 August 2023, at 11:36.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Privacy policy
About Meta
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement