UCB Libraries | GovPubs | United Kingdom (British Studies)
75 captures
27 Nov 2004 - 18 Dec 2017
Sep
APR
Jun
06
2007
2009
2010
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20090406224510/http://ucblibraries.colorado.edu:80/govpubs/for/british.htm
UCB Libraries
Ask Us: email | chat | phone
Chinook
Articles
Reserves
Research Guides
Site Search
Keyword
Title
Author
Subjects
Call Number
 Search for articles using databases: Find Articles & More 
Instructor
Course
Home
Research Resources
Chinook Library Catalog
Find Articles & More
Course Reserves / E-Reserves
CU Digital Library
Digital Asset Library (DIAL)
Research & Subject Guides
Interlibrary Loan (ILL)
...more>> 
About the Libraries
How do I?
Hours
Job & Career Opportunities
Libraries & Departments
Maps, Parking & Tours
Faculty & Staff Directories
Faculty Profiles
Support the Libraries!
...more>>
Services
Borrowing Materials
For Faculty
Library Instruction
My Chinook
Off-Campus Access
Shortcuts
Subject Specialists
...more>>
Libraries & Departments
Access Services
Acquisitions
Administrative Services
American Music Research Center
Archives
Art & Architecture Collection
Business Library
Cataloging and Metadata Services
Circulation
Collection Development
Dean of Libraries
Earth Sciences Library
East Asian Collection
Engineering Library
Friends of the Library
Government Publications Library
Interlibrary Loan (ILL)
Map Library
Math Physics Library
Music Library
Norlin Library
Outreach
Periodicals Collection
Preservation
Public Services
Research & Instruction
Reserves
Science Library
Security
Special Collections
Systems
Technical Services
Libraries A to Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Government Publications Library
govpubs@colorado.edu
  303-492-8834 (ph) 
  303-492-1881 (fx) 
  Norlin Library, Third Floor 
 
Home
Hours
About
Maps
Staff
Quick search 
 
Find articles & more
Search Gov. Pubs. Library web pages
GPO Access
FDsys
Monthly Catalog  CU 
Google US Search
USAGov
Tax Forms
Web resources
 
Subject Guides
US/State/Local Govts
Foreign/International
Using Our Collections
Library Catalogs
GovPubs Databases
A-Z List
Statistical
U.S./State
International/Foreign
Other links 
 
Depository libraries resources
FAQ
GovPubs Blog
 
University Libraries > Libraries & Departments  > Government Publications > 
  Foreign Information by Country >
Country information
United Kingdom (British Studies)
Government Publications has primary source materials for the United Kingdom from the 1300s to the present. The collection is not all
in Chinook; to locate this material visit the reference desk and/or use the Finding Guide.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
British Government Information
Directgov, a gateway to UK government sites.
British Library
British Official Publications Collaborative Reader Information Service
   (BOPCRIS) contains British Official Publications from 1688-1995. 
British Official Documents this site is maintained by the privatized 
   Stationary Office and contains publications from 1994 to the present.
Bank of England
Cabinet Office
Foreign and Commonwealth Office
Government Statistical Service
Office of Public Sector Information, this office has taken over many of the tasks of Her Majesty's Stationary Office (HMSO), although
  that office still exists within this division.
Monarchy
Parliament
Official Record (Hansard) of Debates
Bills before Parliament
Highlights from the Parliamentary Archives 
This site links to a number of special collections from the Parliament, such as slave trade,
India,
and citizenship.
National Archives provides a wide variety of information, including an Online 
    Catalogue.
National Portrait Gallery Use the search feature to find any of the
   more than 10,000 images available online.
 Prime Minister (10 Downing Street)  this web site provides data on the current Prime Minister, as well as the history of 10 Downing Street and previous Prime Ministers.
 Public Whip  provides a subject approach to Commons votes since 2001 and lists individual dissenters.     
Northern Ireland
Northern Ireland  Assembly 
Northern Ireland Executive 
Northern Ireland  Office: Secretary of State for Northern Ireland 
Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA) 
Office of the First Minister and Deputy First Minister
Scotland
General Register Office for Scotland
Scotland Office: Secretary of State for Scotland 
The Scottish Parliament 
The Scottish  Government 
Wales
National Assembly for Wales 
Wales Office: Secretary of State for Wales 
Welsh Assembly Government  
British Crown Dependencies  
Isle of Man: Territory Guide
Constitutional Monarchies of the UK: Queen as Sovereign 
Antigua and Barbuda: Country Guide 
Australia: Country Guide 
The Bahamas: Country Guide 
Barbados: Country Guide 
Belize: Country Guide 
Canada: Country Guide 
Grenada: Country Guide 
Jamaica: Country Guide
New Zealand: Country Guide 
Papua New Guinea: Country Guide 
Saint Kitts and Nevis: Country Guide 
Saint Lucia: Country Guide 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: Country Guide
Solomon Islands: Country Guide 
Tuvalu: Country Guide 
Overseas Territories of the UK 
Anguilla: Territory Guide 
Bermuda: Territory Guide 
British Virgin Islands: Territory Guide 
Cayman Islands: Territory Guide 
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas): Territory Guide
Montserrat: Territory Guide 
Turks and Caicos Islands: Territory Guide 
Government Information | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Country Profiles
Australian Government - United Kingdom 
Country profile, economic and trade information, and foreign relations from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
BBC News Profile - United Kingdom
        A guide to history, politics and economic background of countries from BBC News. 
          
BBC News Profile - Northern Ireland 
BBC News Profile - Scotland 
BBC News Profile - Wales
CIA World Factbook - United Kingdom 
Country profile provides information on country background, geography, people, government, communications, transportation, military, and transnational issues.
European Union Member States - United Kingdom  
The EU is a supernational union comprised of 27 member states.
  
CORDIS - United Kingdom 
Member state  site for the European Union's CORDIS (Community Research and Development Information Service for Science, Research and Development).
EUbusiness  - UK 
      Country profile, business guides, and business news from EUbusiness (an independent online business information service about the European Union).
European Judicial Network - United Kingdom  
      Information on how to obtain justice in civil and commercial matters. 
FAO and the United Kingdom 
        Information on economic and agricultural issues  from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). It also has a good selection of maps.
Human Development Report on United Kingdom 
        Provides quick statistics on human development, economy, labor force, and population from the United Nations Development Programme. Country factsheet is also available. 
IAEA - United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
Country factsheet on 
    multilateral and safeguard agreements from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 
IEA - Great Britain  
        Country information, energy-related statistics,  graphs and publications from the International Energy Agency (IEA). 
IMF - United Kingdom  
        Country information, reports and publications from the International Monetary Fund. 
India Foreign Relations Brief - United Kingdom  
Country briefs from India's Ministry of External Affairs.
ITC - United Kingdom 
Country-specific trade and market profiles, map, and trade  statistics from the International Trade Centre (ITC). 
Library of Congress - United Kingdom 
        Country portal and resources compiled by the Library of Congress subject experts. 
OECD - United Kingdom  
        Country information, statistics, publications, and news from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). 
OHCHR - United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
        Country background, treaties, reporting status, calendar of events and publications related to human rights from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner on Human Rights (OHCHR). 
UNESCO Worldwide - United Kingdom and Northern Ireland  
        Highlights cooperation between the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and its Member States.
        
UK National Commission for  UNESCO 
          National office representing UNESCO in the UK. 
UNESCO Communication & Information - United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Country profile, news and links to related projects and websites.
UNESCO Education Worldwide - United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
Education statistics, publications, plans, ministries, and news for Member States. 
UNESCO Institute for Statistics - United Kingdom  
            A selection of national statistics on education, literacy, science and technology, culture, and communication.
UNESCO World Heritage - United Kingdom 
            Cultural and natural heritage properties and documents on the World  Heritage List.
United Nations Country @ a Glance - United Kingdom 
  Country overview, news, economy, environment, health and technology from the United Nations Cyberschoolbus. 
United Nations Statistics Division: Environment Snapshot - United Kingdom 
Country snapshots offer national environment statistics.
United Nations Statistics Division: National Accounts - United Kingdom 
"Statistics database contains a complete and consistent set of time series from 1970 onwards of main national accounts aggregates for all UN Members States and all other countries and areas in the world." 
U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Statistics - United Kingdom
U.S. 
      trade in goods (imports, exports and balance) with United Kingdom. 
U.S. Commercial Service - United Kingdom 
  Country profile about doing business abroad by the Commercial Service, the global business solutions unit of the Department of Commerce. 
U.S. Department of Energy - United Kingdom 
Country energy profile for production, consumption, U.S. oil imports, and CO2 emissions.
    
U.S. Department of Energy - European Union 
        Regional analysis briefs on energy consumption and exports in the European Union (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus,  Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom). 
U.S. Department of Energy - North Sea 
        Regional analysis briefs on energy consumption and exports in the North Sea (Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, and the United Kingdom).
U.S. Department of Energy - United Kingdom 
Country analysis briefs on energy consumption and exports. 
Government Information | Country Profiles | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Articles and Databases 
 British Government and Politics on the Internet  (University of Keele) provides a detailed list of government web sites, as well as political and election web sites related to government. 
British History Online is a digital library containing some of the core printed primary and secondary sources for the medieval and modern history of the British Isles.
British and Irish Legal Information provides access to cases and legislation from the United Kingdom and links to law journals and other law-related information.
Britannia: England, UK, Wales and Scotland includes history, monarchs, travel, newspapers, and a description of the government and parliamentary process, links to government servers, maps, and other information.
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Declassified Documents 
  Declassified information available from the FOIA Electronic Reading Room.
        Enter "Great Britain" or "United Kingdom" as the search terms.
        
National Intelligence Council (NIC) Declassified Documents 
              Database of intelligence  reports, National Intelligence Estimates, and other  publications produced by the National Intelligence Council or its  predecessor organizations, the Office of National Estimates and  the Office of Reports and Estimates since 1946.
CRS Reports - LexisNexis Congressional CU 
        The Congressional Research Service (CRS), the research arm of Congress,   prepares reports (usually under 20 pages long) on topics of interest to members of Congress. Enter "Great Britain" or "United Kingdom"  as the search terms.
CD-ROMs available on computers in the Government Publications library: 
British Parliamentary Papers 1990- Readex index to Official Documents and Command Papers of the British Parliament. There is an online guide to printed indexes.
Calendar of State Papers, Colonial: North America and the West Indies, 1574-1739 This CD-ROM includes documents from 1574-1739 in over 40,000 transcripts and extended abstracts. This material covers a wide range of subject areas, including: correspondence to and from colonial governors; orders and grants from central government to local administration; information from the localities; information about the slave trade and piracy, and much more.
Indexes of British Parliamentary Papers, 1801-1945 Bruise Shoin index to Official Documents and Command Papers of the British Parliament. House of Commons: 1801-1944/45. House of Lords: 1801-1922. Includes biographical information on members of Parliament. There is an online guide to printed indexes.
Indexes of House of Commons Parliamentary Papers, 1801-2000 This Chadwick-Healey database contains the first cumulative index of all House of Commons parliamentary papers published from 1801 to the current decade. It draws together material from Chadwick-Healey's Subject Catalogue of the House of Commons parliamentary papers 1801-1900, the House of Commons decennial indexes covering the period 1900-1979, and data from the Parliamentary Online Information Service (POLIS) Database  from 2001 onwards. There is an online guide to printed indexes.
UKOP: United Kingdom Official Publications A single source of information on the publications of official documents published by HMSO or directly by official organizations in the UK, from 1980 onwards. Also included are publications of international organizations distributed by HMSO
Declassified Documents Reference System CU 
        Search this database to find declassified documents related to the United Kingdom. 
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)
Department of Defense Scientific and Technical Reports Collection provides access to citations to unclassified unlimited documents that have been entered into DTIC's Technical Reports (TR) Database, as well as the electronic full-text of many of these documents. The site also includes databases that focus on individual topics.
Digital National Security Archive CU 
        Database of primary declassified documents  regarding critical U.S.   policy decisions. Enter "Great Britain" or "United Kingdom" as the search terms.
Early English Books Online CU Searchable full text of over 12,000 EEBO titles chosen from the New Cambridge Bibliography of English Literature. Many are also included in EEBO. Additional titles are added monthly. When complete, EEBO-TCP will contain 25,000 texts.
Empire Online CU This database contains 70,000 original documents relating to Empire Studies. These documents cover the from 1492-1962 and are accompanied by essays and biographies from leading scholars.
EUR-Lex
        Free database provides access to European Union treaties, legislation, case-law, parliamentary questions, legislative proposals, the Official Journal of the European Union, and the European Court Reports.
Eurostat
        Statistical data and publications from the European Commission.
Facts on International Relations and Security Trends (FIRST) 
        An integrated database containing information on armed conflicts and  peace keeping, arms production and trade, military expenditure, armed  forces and weapons.
Global Legal Information Network (GLIN)
        "Public database of official texts of laws, regulations, judicial  decisions, and other complementary legal sources contributed by  governmental agencies and international organizations."
History, Europe - Primary Sources CU
Collection of databases from the University of Colorado covering primary resources from Europe.
History, Europe - Secondary Sources CU
Collection of databases from the University of Colorado covering secondary resources from Europe.
Human Rights Watch - United Kingdom 
        News and reports related to human rights.
International Area Studies Europe CU
        Collection of databases from the University of Colorado covering Europe.
International Area Studies General CU
Collection of general databases from the University of Colorado covering international issues. 
International Area Studies Statistics CU
        Collection of international statistics databases from the University of Colorado.
LexisNexis Academic Country & Region Reports CU
        News, country briefings, and country risk guides. Filter by country or choose "Country & Region Reports" from publication type. 
Macmillan Cabinet Papers 1957-1963 CU Macmillan was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, read full-text primary sources covering such subjects as Apartheid in South Africa, the Berlin Wall, and the Cuban Missile Crisis.
SourceOECD CU
        The Organisation for Economic 
        Co-operation and Development's (OECD) online collection of statistical databases, books and periodicals.
Spartacus Encyclopedia of British History 1700-1950 a free resource for all students of British history. The encyclopedia currently contains over 2,000 entries and is an attempt to show the history of Britain through the eyes of people from all levels of society.
Time Digital Archive, 1785-1985 CU Searchable access to the complete backfile of The Times (London), available in full page images.
WDI Online CU
        World Development Indicators (WDI) online 
        contains statistical data on the global economy from the 
        World Bank.
WHO/Europe Databases 
Databases of national health statistics and other data on the health situation in European countries.
Worldwide Incidents Tracking System (WITS)
        WITS is the National Counterterrorism Center's database of terrorist  incidents. The WITS database coverage is  currently from 1/1/2004 to 6/30/2007 and is updated quarterly.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Diplomatic Relations 
Diplomacy, Programs and Aid
British Embassy in the United States
Diplomatic representation of the United Kingdom in the United States. 
Commonwealth of Nations - United Kingdom
  "The Commonwealth is an association of 53 independent states  consulting and co-operating in the common interests of their peoples  and in the promotion of international understanding and world peace.  The Commonwealth's 2 billion citizens, about 30 per cent of the world's  population, are drawn from the broadest range of faiths, races,  cultures and traditions."
Council of Europe and the United Kingdom 
"Founded in 1949, the Council of Europe seeks to develop throughout  Europe common and democratic principles based on the European  Convention on Human Rights and other reference texts on the protection  of individuals." There are 47 member states. 
Embassy of the United States in London, UK 
        Diplomatic representation of the U.S. in the United Kingdom. They also have an embassy in Cardiff. 
European   Commission                       Representation in the United Kingdom 
      Country site for the European Commission, the executive branch of the European Union.
Group of Eight (G-8) Information Centre
The G8 is an international forum for the governments of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
Group of Twenty (G-20)
        The G-20 is a group of 19 of the world's largest economies and the European Union. The G-20 is an informal forum that promotes open and constructive   discussion between industrial and emerging-market countries on key   issues related to global economic stability.
NATO Member Country
The United Kingdom is a member of the 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organisation  (NATO), an alliance of 26 countries from North America and Europe committed to fulfilling the North Atlantic Treaty signed on April 4, 1949.
  
UK to NATO
      Permanent British delegation to NATO. 
Permanent Mission of the United Kingdom to the United Nations
        Website of member state missions and their representatives to the United Nations.
ReliefWeb - United Kingdom 
        ReliefWeb, administered by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), provides news, documents, maps, and background information on emergency assistance by country. 
UNHCR - United Kingdom  
        News, operations, statistics, background, analysis and policy, and maps from the  Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
United Nations Association of United Kingdom 
      UN system in United Kingdom.
United Nations Division for Sustainable Development - United Kingdom 
Economic, social and environmental   policies and plans for sustainable development from the UN Department Economic and Social Affairs.
U.S. Department of State - United Kingdom 
        U.S.-British relations, diplomacy, and country background notes.
          
Background Notes  - United Kingdom  
              Provides country background and  foreign policy information for the American public from the Department of State's Bureau of Public Affairs.
World Trade Organization - United Kingdom 
        Provides key information on trade statistics, WTO commitments, disputes, trade policy reviews, and notifications for member countries. 
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Health 
UNAIDS - United Kingdom
  Country situation analysis and news from the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.
WHO - United Kingdom
  Information and statistics on the status of public health in the United Kingdom from the World Health Organization (WHO).
WHO/Europe 
Official site of the World Health Organization Europe (WHO/Europe). 
     
    
Country Information - United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
        Health information, programs, and statistics about countries in Europe.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Peacekeeping and Military Information 
 International Court of Justice (ICJ) 
  ICJ is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. ICJ "has a twofold role: to settle, in accordance with international law, legal disputes submitted to it by States (Contentious cases ) and to give advisory opinions (Advisory proceedings) on legal questions referred to it by duly authorized United Nations organs and specialized agencies." 
1999: Legality of Use of Force (Serbia and Montenegro v. United Kingdom)
1992: Questions of Interpretation and Application of the 1971 Montreal Convention arising from the Aerial Incident at Lockerbie (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya v. United Kingdom)
1972: Fisheries Jurisdiction (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland v. Iceland)
1961: Northern Cameroons (Cameroon v. United Kingdom)
1957: Aerial Incident of 27 July 1955 (United Kingdom v. Bulgaria)
1955: Antarctica (United Kingdom v. Chile)
1955: Antarctica (United Kingdom v. Argentina)
1953: Monetary Gold Removed from Rome in 1943 (Italy v. France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and United States of America)
1951: Minquiers and Ecrehos (France/United Kingdom)
1951: Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. (United Kingdom v. Iran)
1951: Ambatielos (Greece v. United Kingdom)
1949: Fisheries (United Kingdom v. Norway)
1947: Corfu Channel (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland v. Albania)
NTI - United Kingdom Profile
Nuclear, biological, chemical and missile development programs, policies and activities from the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI). NTI is non-profit organization with a mission to strengthen global security and fulfill the Non-Proliferation Treaty's goals and ambitions. NTI's members are from the United States, Russia, Japan, India, Pakistan, China, Jordan, Sweden, France and the United Kingdom. 
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe
The OSCE is responsible for post-conflict elections, human rights and regional military stabilization. There are 56 participating states (including the United Kingdom). 
United Kingdom: Security Assistance
      Country-by-country listing provides information on Political-Military-administered security assistance funds from the US Bureau of Political-Military Affairs.
United Nations Security Council Permanent Member  
The UN Security Council is responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. The Council is composed of five permanent                     members — China, France, Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States — and                     ten nonpermanent members that are elected by the General Assembly for two-year        terms and not eligible for immediate re-election.    
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Related Topics
Resources in the Catalog 
The Library Catalog, Chinook
   There are numerous secondary, federal, and international  sources of information on Great Britain available in the
     collection. For the uncataloged material check out the Finding Guides to the British Studies Collections in the University of
   Colorado at Boulder Libraries which contain entries for primary materials, collections of
   sources, and some reference or research aids. Includes holdings in Government
   Publications and the other branches of the library.
   
Try these searches to see some of the resources in Chinook, the library catalog:
Electronic Resources
Print and Electronic Resources
great britain and econom*
great britain and econom*
great britain and histor*
great britain and histor*
great britain and politic*
great britain and politic*
great britain (government publications only)
great britain (government publications only)
The * replaces up to five characters in a word.
Not all of the British documents are cataloged, for help finding the uncataloged material please come to the Government Publications reference desk.
        For additional foreign information, arranged by subject, see the Subject Page.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog
Related Topics 
European Union Resources  
Finding Guide to the British Studies Primary Source Research Collections in the University of Colorado at Boulder Libraries
Foreign Relations and International Aid
History Subject Guide 
Ireland: Country Guide 
 
Contact University Libraries: email |  chat |  phone 
University Libraries, 184 UCB, 1720 Pleasant Street, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309-0184
Libraries Information 303-492-8705 | Research & Instruction 303-492-7521
© Regents of the University of Colorado