Trinidad & Tobago National Birds
85 captures
10 Feb 2007 - 04 Jun 2023
Mar
MAY
Jul
18
2014
2015
2016
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20150518092238/http://www.tntisland.com/tntbirds.html
Scarlet Ibis
Trinidad & TobagoNational Birds
Cocrico
 
The Scarlet Ibis (Eudocimus ruber), locally known as "flamingo," makes its home in the Caroni Bird Sanctuary in the Caroni Swamp--an area set aside by the government for the protection of these colourful birds. 
The Caroni Swamp includes fifteen thousand acres of marshland, tidal lagoons, and mangrove trees. Several thousand Scarlet Ibises nest and roost in the sanctuary and are often seen in large numbers during the last two hours of daylight. 
Larger numbers of Scarlet Ibises can be seen during the breeding season, from April to August. These birds feed mainly on crabs which they seek out on the mud flats exposed at low tide and on the stilt roots of the red mangrove. 
Boat tours of the Caroni Swamp are available throughout the year. 
The Cocrico (Ortalis ruficauda), also known as the "Chachalaca," is a rufous-tailed, tropical pheasant indigenous to Tobago. They tend to inhabit the higher areas of the island amidst the forest and sometimes the dry scrubby lands bordering cultivated areas. 
Cocricos are known for sounding a loud, grating chorus at dawn and dusk. The sound is a raucous cocricó repeated several times, hence the name of the bird. The Scarlet Ibis and the Cocrico are only two of over 400 species of birds recorded in Trinidad and Tobago. 
 
(Reference: French, Richard P. The Birds. David Frost Introduces Trinidad & Tobago. Edited by Michael Anthony and Andrew Carr. Copyright © 1975 by André Deutsh Limited.)
 
The National Birds of Trinidad & Tobago information is courtesy of Alana Ochoa Trafford
Home
Kids Korner
TnT National Anthem
TnT National Birds
TnT Coat of Arms
TnT Flag
TnT National Flowers
TnT Independence Pledge
IE 6.0 or higher/Firefox/Chrome compatible.This site uses frames, if you do not see frames click here.
Page maintained by Roger James www.tntisland.com Copyright © 1996-2015 Last Revised: 10/01/2015