Low German - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Geographical extent
Toggle Geographical extent subsection
1.1Inside Europe
1.1.1Germany
1.1.2The Netherlands
1.2Outside Europe and the Mennonites
2Nomenclature
3Classification
Toggle Classification subsection
3.1Language or dialect
3.2Legal status
4Varieties of Low German
5History
Toggle History subsection
5.1Old Saxon
5.2Middle Low German
5.3Contemporary
5.3.1Germany
5.3.2Netherlands
6Sound change
7Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
7.1Verbs
7.2Adjectives
8Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
8.1Consonants
8.2Vowels
9Writing system
10Written Language Examples
Toggle Written Language Examples subsection
10.1East-Westphalian
10.2South Westphalian
10.3Westphalian Dialect of the County of Bentheim
10.4Eastphalian
10.5Schleswigsch
10.6East Frisian Low German
10.7Pomeranian
10.8Plautdietsch
11Spoken Examples
12Notable Low German writers and performers
13See also
14Notes
15References
16Bibliography
17External links
Toggle External links subsection
17.1Online dictionaries
17.2Information
17.3Organisations
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Low German
93 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛÆngliscالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAzərbaycancaBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeitschDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתКомиLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLivvinkarjalaMagyarМакедонскиمصرىМокшеньNederlandsNedersaksies日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPapiamentuپښتوPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduSeelterskShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVènetoVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVõro吴语粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Low German language)
West Germanic language of northern Germany and the northeastern Netherlands
For other uses, see Low German (disambiguation) and Low Saxon (disambiguation).
Low GermanLow SaxonPlattdütsch, Plattdüütsch, Plattdütsk, Plattdüütsk, Plattduitsk (South-Westphalian), Plattduitsch (Eastphalian), Plattdietsch (Low Prussian); Neddersassisch; NedderdüütschNative toNorthern and western GermanyEastern NetherlandsSouthern DenmarkEthnicityDutchGermansEast FrisiansRussian MennonitesHistorically Saxons(both the ethnic group and modern regional subgroup of Germans)Native speakersEstimated 4.35–7.15 million[a][1][2][3]Up to 10 million second-language speakers (2001)[4]Language familyIndo-European
GermanicWest GermanicNorth Sea GermanicLow GermanEarly formsOld Saxon
Middle Low German
Dialects
West Low German
East Low German
Official statusRecognised minoritylanguage in Netherlands[5]
 Germany[6]
 Schleswig-Holstein
 Hamburg
 Lower Saxony
 Saxony-Anhalt
 Mecklenburg-Vorpommern[7]
 Brandenburg[8][9]
 Bolivia (70,000)[10] Paraguay (30,000)[11] Brazil (8,000)Language codesISO 639-2ndsISO 639-3nds  (Dutch varieties and Westphalian have separate codes)Glottologlowg1239  Low GermanLinguasphere52-ACBPresent-day Low German language area in Europe.This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Low German or Low Saxon[b] is a West Germanic language [12][13] spoken mainly in Northern Germany and the northeastern part of the Netherlands. The dialect of Plautdietsch is also spoken in the Russian Mennonite diaspora worldwide.
Low German is most closely related to Frisian and English, with which it forms the North Sea Germanic group of the West Germanic languages. Like Dutch, it has historically been spoken north of the Benrath and Uerdingen isoglosses, while forms of the High German language (of which Standard German is a standardized example) have historically been spoken south of those lines. Like Frisian, English, Dutch and the North Germanic languages, Low German has not undergone the High German consonant shift, as opposed to Standard High German, which is based on High German dialects. Low German evolved from Old Saxon (Old Low German), which is most closely related to Old Frisian and Old English (Anglo-Saxon).
The Low German dialects spoken in the Netherlands are mostly referred to as Low Saxon, those spoken in northwestern Germany (Lower Saxony, Westphalia, Schleswig-Holstein, Hamburg, Bremen, and Saxony-Anhalt west of the Elbe) as either Low German or Low Saxon, and those spoken in northeastern Germany (Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Brandenburg, and Saxony-Anhalt east of the Elbe) mostly as Low German. This is because northwestern Germany and the northeastern Netherlands were the area of settlement of the Saxons (Old Saxony), while Low German spread to northeastern Germany through eastward migration of Low German speakers into areas with a Slavic-speaking population (Germania Slavica).
It has been estimated that Low German has approximately 1.6 million speakers in Germany, primarily Northern Germany,[14] and 2.15 million in the Netherlands.[15]
Geographical extent[edit]
Inside Europe[edit]
Germany[edit]
City limit sign in Lower Saxony:Cuxhaven-Altenbruch(Standard German)Cuxhoben-Olenbrook(Low German)
It has been estimated that Low German has approximately 2 to 5 million speakers (depending on the definition of 'native speaker') in Germany, primarily in Northern Germany.[16]
Variants of Low German are spoken in most parts of Northern Germany, for instance in the states of Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Hamburg, Bremen, Schleswig-Holstein, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony-Anhalt, and Brandenburg. Small portions of northern Hesse and northern Thuringia are traditionally Low Saxon-speaking too.
Historically, Low German was also spoken in formerly German parts of Poland as well as in East Prussia and the Baltic provinces (modern Estonia and Latvia). The Baltic Germans spoke a distinct Low German dialect, which has influenced the vocabulary and phonetics of both Estonian and Latvian. The historical sprachraum of Low German also included contemporary northern Poland, East Prussia (the modern Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia), a part of western Lithuania, and the German communities in Estonia and Latvia, most notably their Hanseatic cities. German speakers in this area fled the Red Army or were forcibly expelled after the border changes at the end of World War II.
The language was also formerly spoken in the outer areas of what is now the city-state of Berlin, but in the course of urbanisation and national centralisation in that city, the language has vanished (the Berlin dialect itself is a northern outpost of High German, though it has some Low German features).
Today, there are still speakers outside Germany to be found in the coastal areas of present-day Poland (minority of ethnic German East Pomeranian speakers who were not expelled from Pomerania, as well as the regions around Braniewo).[citation needed] In the Southern Jutland region of Denmark there may still be some Low German speakers in some German minority communities, but the Low German dialects of Denmark can be considered moribund at this time.[citation needed]
Low German-speaking area before the expulsion of almost all German-speakers from east of the Oder–Neisse line in 1945. Low German-speaking provinces of Germany east of the Oder, before 1945, were Pomerania with its capital Stettin (now Szczecin, Poland), where east of the Oder East Pomeranian dialects were spoken, and East Prussia with its capital Königsberg (now Kaliningrad, Russia), where Low Prussian dialects were spoken. Danzig (now Gdańsk, Poland) was also a Low German-speaking city before 1945. The dialect of Danzig (Danzig German) was also Low Prussian.
Self-reported Low German speakers
State
'Well' or 'very well'[17]
'Very well' only[17]
% of pop.
Numbers
% of pop.
Numbers
Schleswig-Holstein
24.5%
694,085
16.5%
467,445
North Rhine-Westphalia
11.8%
2,103,940
5.2%
927,160
Lower Saxony
15.4%
1,218,756
4.7%
371,958
Hamburg
9.5%
169,860
3.2%
57,216
Bremen
17.6%
116,336
9.9%
65,439
Brandenburg
2.8%
70,000
2.6%
65,000
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern
20.7%
339,273
5.9%
96,701
Saxony-Anhalt
11.8%
275,058
2.2%
51,282
Entire Low German dialect area
15.7%
4,987,308
6.2%
2,197,205
The Netherlands[edit]
Dialects of Low German are spoken in the northeastern area of the Netherlands (Dutch Low Saxon) and are written there with an unstandardized orthography based on Standard Dutch orthography. The position of the language is, according to UNESCO, vulnerable.[18] Between 1995 and 2011 the numbers of parent speakers dropped from 34% in 1995 to 15% in 2011. Numbers of child speakers dropped from 8% to 2% in the same period.[19] According to a 2005 study 53% speak Low Saxon or Low Saxon and Dutch at home and 71% could speak it in the researched area.[20] The total number of speakers is estimated at 1.7 million speakers.[3] There are speakers in the Dutch north and eastern provinces of Groningen, Drenthe, Stellingwerf (part of Friesland), Overijssel, Gelderland, Utrecht and Flevoland, in several dialect groups per province.
Outside Europe and the Mennonites[edit]
Main articles: Plautdietsch and East Low German
There are also immigrant communities where Low German is spoken in the Western hemisphere, including Canada, the United States, Mexico, Belize, Venezuela, Bolivia, Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. In some of these countries, the language is part of the Mennonite religion and culture.[21] There are Mennonite communities in Ontario, Saskatchewan, Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, Kansas and Minnesota which use Low German in their religious services and communities. These Mennonites are descended from primarily Dutch settlers that had initially settled in the Vistula delta region of Prussia in the 16th and 17th centuries before moving to newly acquired Russian territories in Ukraine in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, and then to the Americas in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The types of Low German spoken in these communities and in the Midwest region of the United States have diverged since emigration. The survival of the language is tenuous in many places, and has died out in many places where assimilation has occurred. Members and friends of the Historical Society of North German Settlements in western New York (Bergholz, New York), a community of Lutherans who trace their immigration from Pomerania in the 1840s, hold quarterly "Plattdeutsch lunch" events, where remaining speakers of the language gather to share and preserve the dialect. Mennonite colonies in Paraguay, Belize, and Chihuahua, Mexico, have made Low German a "co-official language" of the community.[citation needed]
A public school in Witmarsum Colony (Paraná, Southern Brazil) teaches in the Portuguese language and in Plautdietsch.[22]
East Pomeranian is also spoken in parts of southern and southeastern Brazil, in the latter especially in the state of Espírito Santo, being official in five municipalities, and spoken among its ethnically European migrants elsewhere, primarily in the states of Rio de Janeiro and Rondônia. East Pomeranian-speaking regions of Southern Brazil are often assimilated into the general German Brazilian population and culture, for example celebrating the Oktoberfest, and there can even be a language shift from it to Riograndenser Hunsrückisch in some areas. In Espírito Santo, nevertheless, Pomeranian Brazilians are more often proud of their language, and particular religious traditions and culture,[23] and not uncommonly inheriting the nationalism of their ancestors, being more likely to accept marriages of its members with Brazilians of origins other than a Germanic Central European one than to assimilate with Brazilians of Swiss, Austrian, Czech, and non-East Pomeranian-speaking German and Prussian heritage[clarification needed] – that were much more numerous immigrants to both Brazilian regions (and whose language almost faded out in the latter, due to assimilation and internal migration)[clarification needed], by themselves less numerous than the Italian ones (with only Venetian communities in areas of highly Venetian presence conserving Talian, and other Italian languages and dialects fading out elsewhere).[clarification needed]
Speakers of low German outside Europe
Approximate distribution of native speakers of German or a German variety outside Europe(according to Ethnologue 2016 unless referenced otherwise)Numbers of speakers should not be summed up per country, as they most likely overlap considerably.Table includes varieties with disputed statuses as separate language.
Standard German
Hunsrik/Hunsrückisch
Low German & Plautdietsch
Pennsylvania Dutch
Hutterite
Argentina
400,000
—
4,000
—
—
Australia
79,000
—
—
—
—
Belize
—
—
9,360
—
—
Bolivia
160,000
—
60,000
—
—
Brazil
1,500,000
3,000,000
8,000
—
—
Canada
430,000
—
80,000
15,000
23,200
Chile
35,000
—
—
—
—
Costa Rica
—
—
2,000
—
—
Israel
200,000
—
—
—
—
Kazakhstan
30,400
—
100,000
—
—
Mexico
—
—
40,000
—
—
Namibia
22,500
—
—
—
—
New Zealand
36,000
—
—
—
—
Paraguay
166,000
—
40,000
—
—
Peru
2,000
—
5,000
—
—
Russia
—
—
—
—
—
South Africa
12,000
—
—
—
—
Uruguay
28,000
—
2,000
—
—
United States
1,104,354[24]
—
12,000
118,000
10,800
Sum
4,599,392
3,000,000
362,360
133,000
34,000
Nomenclature[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The language grouping of Low German is referred to, in the language itself as well as in its umbrella languages of German and Dutch, in several different ways, ranging from official names such as Niederdeutsche and Nederduits to more general characterisations such as "dialect". The proliferation of names or characterisations is due in part to the grouping stretching mainly across two different countries and to it being a collection of varieties rather than a standardised language.
There are different uses of the term "Low German":
A specific name of any West Germanic varieties that neither have taken part in the High German consonant shift nor classify as Low Franconian or Anglo-Frisian; this is the scope discussed in this article.
A broader term for the closely related, continental West Germanic languages unaffected by the High German consonant shift, nor classifying as Anglo-Frisian, and thus including Low Franconian varieties.
In Germany, native speakers of Low German call their language Platt, Plattdütsch, Plattdüütsch, Plattdütsk, Plattdüütsk, Plattduitsk (South-Westphalian), Plattduitsch (Eastphalian), Plattdietsch (Low Prussian), or Nedderdüütsch. In the Netherlands, native speakers refer to their language as dialect, plat, Nedersaksisch, or the name of their village, town or district.
Officially, Low German is called niederdeutsche Sprache or plattdeutsche Sprache (Nether or Low German language), Niederdeutsch or Plattdeutsch (Nether or Low German) in High German by the German authorities, nedderdüütsche Spraak (Nether or Low German language), Nedderdüütsch or Plattdüütsch (Nether or Low German) in Low German by the German authorities and Nedersaksisch (Nether or Low Saxon) by the Dutch authorities. Plattdeutsch, Niederdeutsch and Platduits, Nedersaksisch are seen in linguistic texts from the German and Dutch linguistic communities respectively.
In Danish it is called Plattysk, Nedertysk or, rarely, Lavtysk. Mennonite Low German is called Plautdietsch.
"Low" refers to the flat plains and coastal area of the northern European lowlands, contrasted with the mountainous areas of central and southern Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, where High German (Highland German) is spoken.[25] Etymologically however, Platt meant "clear" in the sense of a language the simple people could understand. In Dutch, the word Plat can also mean "improper", "rude" or "too simple" which is why the term is not popular in the Netherlands.
The colloquial term Platt denotes both Low German dialects and any non-standard Western variety of German; this use is chiefly found in northern and Western Germany and is not considered to be linguistically correct.[26]
The ISO 639-2 language code for Low German (Low Saxon) has been nds (niedersächsisch or nedersaksisch, neddersassisch) since May 2000.
Classification[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Low German is a part of the continental West Germanic dialect continuum. To the West, it blends into the Low Franconian languages, including Dutch. A distinguishing feature between the Southern Low Franconian varieties and Low German varieties is the plural of the verbs. Low German varieties have a common verbal plural ending, whereas Low Franconian varieties have a different form for the second person plural. This is complicated in that in most Low Franconian varieties, including standard Dutch, the original second-person plural form has replaced the singular. Some dialects, including again standard Dutch, innovated a new second-person plural form in the last few centuries, using the other plural forms as the source.
To the South, Low German blends into the High German dialects of Central German that have been affected by the High German consonant shift. The division is usually drawn at the Benrath line that traces the maken – machen isogloss.
To the East, it abuts the Kashubian language (the only remnant of the Pomeranian language) and, since the expulsion of nearly all Germans from the Polish part of Pomerania following the Second World War, also by the Polish language. 
East Pomeranian and Central Pomeranian are dialects of Low German.
To the North and Northwest, it abuts the Danish and the Frisian languages. In Germany, Low German has replaced the Danish and Frisian languages in many regions. Saterland Frisian is the only remnant of East Frisian language and is surrounded by Low German, as are the few remaining North Frisian varieties, and the Low German dialects of those regions have influences from Frisian substrates.
Most linguists classify the dialects of Low German together with English and Frisian as the North Sea Germanic or Ingvaeonic languages. However, most exclude Low German from the group often called Anglo-Frisian languages because some distinctive features of that group of languages are only partially preserved in Low German, for instance the Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law  (some dialects have us, os for "us" whereas others have uns, ons), and because other distinctive features almost do not occur in Low German at all, for instance the palatalization and assibilation of /k/ (compare palatalized forms such as English cheese, Frisian tsiis to non-palatalized forms such as Low German Kees or Kaise, Dutch kaas, German Käse but Low German Sever/Sebber while German Käfer[27]) However, since Anglo-Frisian features occur in Low German and especially in its older language stages, there is a tendency to prefer the Ingvaeonic classification instead of the Anglo-Frisian one, which also takes Low German into account. Because Old Saxon came under strong Old High German and Old Low Franconian influence early on and therefore lost many Ingvaeonic features that were to be found much more extensively in earlier language states.[28]
Language or dialect[edit]
The question of whether today's Low German should be considered a separate language or a dialect of German or even Dutch has been a point of contention. Although Low German is mostly regarded as an independent language[29] linguistics offers no simple, generally accepted criterion to decide the question.
Scholarly arguments have been put forward for classifying Low German as a German dialect.[30] As stated above, the arguments are not linguistic but rather sociopolitical and revolve mainly around the fact that Low German has no official standard form or use in sophisticated media. The situation of Low German may thus be considered a "pseudo-dialectized abstand language" ("scheindialektisierte Abstandsprache").[31] In contrast, Old Saxon and Middle Low German are generally considered separate languages in their own right. Since Low German has strongly declined since the 18th century, the perceived similarities with High German or Dutch may often be direct adaptations from the dominating standard language, resulting in a growing inability by speakers to speak correctly what was once Low German proper.[32]
Others have argued for the independence of today's Low German dialects, taken as continuous outflow of the Old Saxon and Middle Low German tradition.[33] Glottolog classifies six varieties of Low German as distinct languages based on a low degree of mutual intelligibility. Eastern Low German and Plautdietsch are classified as part of Greater East Low German, while Eastphalian, Westphalic, and the North Low Saxon languages, German Northern Low Saxon and Gronings, are classified as part of West Low German.[34]
Legal status[edit]
Low German has been recognized by the Netherlands and by Germany (since 1999) as a regional language according to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Within the official terminology defined in the charter, this status would not be available to a dialect of an official language (as per article 1a), and hence not to Low German in Germany if it were considered a dialect of German. Advocates of the promotion of Low German have expressed considerable hope that this political development will at once lend legitimacy to their claim that Low German is a separate language, and help mitigate the functional limits of the language that may still be cited as objective criteria for a mere dialect (such as the virtually complete absence from legal and administrative contexts, schools, the media, etc.).[35]
At the request of Schleswig-Holstein, the German government has declared Low German as a regional language. German offices in Schleswig-Holstein are obliged to accept and handle applications in Low German on the same footing as Standard High German applications.[36] The Bundesgerichtshof ruled in a case that this was even to be done at the patent office in Munich, in a non–Low German region, when the applicant then had to pay the charge for a translator,[37] because applications in Low German are considered not to be written in the German language.
Varieties of Low German[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Low Saxon (Niedersächsisch) or West Low German (Westniederdeutsch)
East Frisian Low Saxon
Northern Low Saxon
Holsteinian (Holsteinisch)
Schleswigian (Schleswigsch)
Dithmarsch (Dithmarsisch)
North Hanoverian (Nordhannoversch)
Emslandish (Emsländisch)
Oldenburgish (Oldenburgisch)
Gronings and Noord-Drents
Hogelandsters
Oldambtsters
Stadsgronings
Veenkoloniaals
Westerkwartiers
Kollumerpompsters
Kollumerlands
Middaglands
Midden-Westerkwartiers
Zuid-Westerkwartiers
Westerwolds
Westphalian (Westfälisch)
Westmünsterländisch
Münsterländisch
South Westphalian (Südwestfälisch)
East Westphalian (Ostwestfälisch)
Stellingwerfs
Drents
Midden-Drents
Zuid-Drents
Twents
Twents-Graafschaps
Twents
Gelders-Overijssels
Achterhoeks
Sallands
Oost-Veluws (partly classified as Veluws)
Urkers
Veluws
Oost-Veluws (partly classified as Gelders-Overijssels)
West-Veluws
Eastphalian (Ostfälisch)
East Low German (Ostniederdeutsch)
Brandenburgisch
Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch
Central Pomeranian (Mittelpommersch)
East Pomeranian (Ostpommersch)
Low Prussian (Niederpreußisch)
Plautdietsch (Mennonite Low German, used also in many other countries)
History[edit]
Main article: History of Low German
Old Saxon[edit]
Main article: Old Saxon
Old Saxon (Altsächsisch), also known as Old Low German (Altniederdeutsch), is a West Germanic language. It is documented from the 9th century until the 12th century, when it evolved into Middle Low German. It was spoken on the north-west coast of Germany by Saxon peoples. It is closely related to Old Anglo-Frisian (Old Frisian, Old English),  partially participating in the Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law.
Only a few texts survive, predominantly in baptismal vows the Saxons were required to perform at the behest of Charlemagne. The only literary texts preserved are Heliand and the Old Saxon Genesis.
Low Saxon speaking area
Old Saxon
Modern Low German
Fadar usa firiho barno,
Vadder van us, de Söhn van de Minschen,
thu bist an them hohon himila rikea,
Du bist an den hogen himmlischen Riek,
geuuihid si thin namo uuordo gehuuilico,
Hiligt wees dien naam in elk Woord,
Cuma thin craftag riki.
Kaam dien mächtig Riek.
UUerða thin uuilleo oƀar thesa werold alla,
Warr dien Wille över düsse Werld allerwegens,
so sama an erðo, so thar uppa ist
so up de Eerd, as dat it is dor baven
an them hohon himilo rikea.
in den hogen himmlischen Riek.
Gef us dag gehuuilikes rad, drohtin the godo,
Giff us elk Dag Raad, Herr de Gode,
thina helaga helpa, endi alat us, heƀenes uuard,
Dine hilige Hölp, un laat us free, Beschermer van de Heven,
managoro mensculdio,
us männje Schullen ,
al so uue oðrum mannum doan.
just so as wi doot mit anneren Minschen.
Ne lat us farledean leða uuihti
Laat lege Wichten nich us verschünnen
so forð an iro uuileon, so uui uuirðige sind,
jümehr Willen to doon, as wi würdig sind,
ac help us uuiðar allun uƀilon dadiun.
man hölp us twingen tegen alle öveln Daden.
Middle Low German[edit]
Main article: Middle Low German
The Middle Low German language (Mittelniederdeutsch) is an ancestor of modern Low German. It was spoken from about 1100 to 1600. The neighbouring languages within the dialect continuum of the West Germanic languages were Middle Dutch in the West and Middle High German in the South, later substituted by Early New High German. Middle Low German was the lingua franca of the Hanseatic League, spoken all around the North Sea and the Baltic Sea.[38] It had a significant influence on the Scandinavian languages and other languages around the Baltic Sea. Based on the language of Lübeck, a standardized written language was developing, though it was never codified.
[39]Middle Low German (1498)
Eine Vorrede over dit bôk van Reinken deme vosse.
Hir bevoren in den olden jaren, êr der tît dat got vorlosede dat minschlike geslechte, êr unse here Cristus, ware got unde minsche, lêt in der minscheit den bitteren dôt unde stunt wedder up van deme dode unde stêch up boven alle hemmele unde wert wedder komende to deme rechten gerichte.
Vor desser tît der gebort Cristi vindet men, dat dar sîn gewest vele naturlike wise mans, de utvorkoren unde lêf hadden wîsheit unde kunste, de men nomede philosophi, dat in unser sprake so vele is gesecht alse lêfhebbers der wîsheit unde der kunst. Men hêt ok etlike van en poeten, dat is dichters efte tohopesetters historien unde geschichte efte ok bisproke efte fabelen. Etlike van dessen lereden deme volke dogede unde wîsheit unde setteden ere lere slicht in boke unde in schrift. Etlike andere sîn gewest, de hebben ere lere uns nagelaten unde de gesat in verse unde in bisproke unde in fabelen, up dat men ere lere unde oren vlît desto bet darbi scholde beholden. Mankt dessen is ein gewest, de to nutte unde lere der minschen geschreven heft eine historie unde fabele van Reinken deme vosse, de sêr genóchlik is to lesen unde to horen, unde is ok vul van wîsheit unde guder exempel unde lere. Desses sulven poeten lere to lesen unde nicht to vorstân, en brochte nên nutte efte vromen. Hir umme dat men en moge lesen unde ok vorstân, ik, Hinrek van Alckmer, scholemester unde tuchtlerer des eddelen dogentliken vorsten unde heren, hertogen van Lotringen, umme bede willen mines gnédigen heren, hebbe dit jegenwerdige bok ût walscher unde franzosescher sprake gesocht unde ummegesat in dudesche sprake to dem love unde to der ere godes unde to heilsamer lere der, de hir inne lesen, unde hebbe dit sulve bôk gedelet in vêr part, unde hebbe bi islik capittel gesat eine korte utlegginge unde meninge des sulfsten poeten umme to vorstân den rechten sîn des capittels.
[40]Modern Low German
En vòerrède òever dit book van Reynken den vos
Hyr bevòeren in de olden jaren, eer van de tyd, dat God verloes dat minsklyke slecht, eer ues here Christus, ware god un minsk, leed in de minskheid den bitteren dood un stund wèder up van den dood un steeg up bòven alle hèmel un ward wèderkòmen te dat rechte gericht, 
vòer desse tyd van de gebord Christi vind man, dat dar sind west vèle natuirlyke wyse mans, de uetverkòren un leef hadden wysheid un künst, de man noem philosophi, dat in uese spraak so vèle is segd as leefhebbers van de wysheid un de kunst. Man heet ook ètlyke van em poeten, dat is dichters of tehoopsetters van historien un geschichten of ook byspròek of fabelen. Ètlyke van desse leren dat volk dòegede un wysheid un setten ère lere slicht in boeker un schrift. Ètlyke andere sind west, de hebt ère lere us nalaten un de sat in versen un in byspròek un in fabelen, up dat man ère lere un èren vlyt desto bet darby schul beholden. Mangt desse is een west, de te nut un lere van de minsken schrèven het ene historie un fabel van Reynken den vos, de sere genooglyk is te lèsen un te hoeren, un is ook vul van wysheid un gode exempel un lere. Dessen sylven poeten syne lere te lèsen un nicht te verstaan ne brocht nenen nut of vròmen. Hyrüm, dat man em mòege lèsen un ook verstaan, ik Hinrek van Alckmer, scholemeester un tuchtlerer van den èdelen, dòegendlyken vörsten un heren Hartog van Lothringen, üm bède willen van mynen gnedigen heren, hef dit gègenwerdige book uet Waliske un Franzoesiske spraak socht un ümsat in Duitske spraak te den lof un te de ere van God un te heelsame lere van dee, de hyrin lèset, un hef dit sylve book deeld in veer part un hef by yslyk capitel sat ene korte uetlegging un mening van den sylfsten poeten, üm te verstaan den rechten sin van dat capitel.
Contemporary[edit]
There is a distinction between the German and the Dutch Low Saxon/Low German situation.
Germany[edit]
After mass education in Germany in the 19th and 20th centuries, the slow decline which Low German had been experiencing since the end of the Hanseatic League turned into a free fall. The decision to exclude Low German in formal education was not without controversy, however. On one hand, proponents of Low German advocated that since it had a strong cultural and historical value and was the native language of students in northern Germany, it had a place in the classroom. On the other hand, High German was considered the language of education, science, and national unity, and since schools promoted these values, High German was seen as the best candidate for the language of instruction.[41]
Initially, regional languages and dialects were thought to limit the intellectual ability of their speakers. When historical linguists illustrated the archaic character of certain features and constructions of Low German, this was seen as a sign of its "backwardness". It was not until the efforts of proponents such as Klaus Groth that this impression changed. Groth's publications demonstrated that Low German was a valuable language in its own right, and he was able to convince others that Low German was suitable for literary arts and was a national treasure worth keeping.[41]
Through the works of advocates like Groth, both proponents and opponents of Low German in formal education saw the language's innate value as the cultural and historical language of northern Germany. Nevertheless, opponents claimed that it should simply remain a spoken and informal language to be used on the street and in the home, but not in formal schooling. In their opinion, it simply did not match the nationally unifying power of High German. As a result, while Low German literature was deemed worthy of being taught in school, High German was chosen as the language of scholarly instruction. With High German the language of education and Low German the language of the home and daily life, a stable diglossia developed in Northern Germany.[41] Various Low German dialects are understood by 10 million people, but many fewer are native speakers. Total users of Low German (nds) are approximately 2.5 million, with 300,000 native speakers in Brazil and 1,000 in Germany as of 2016.[42]
The KDE project supports Low German (nds) as a language for its computer desktop environment,[43] as does the GNOME Desktop Project. Open-source software has been translated into Low German; this used to be coordinated via a page on SourceForge,[44] but as of 2015, the most active project is that of KDE.[45]
Netherlands[edit]
In the early 20th century, scholars in the Netherlands argued that speaking dialects hindered language acquisition, and it was therefore strongly discouraged. As education improved, and mass communication became more widespread, the Low Saxon dialects further declined, although decline has been greater in urban centres of the Low Saxon regions. When in 1975 dialect folk and rock bands such as Normaal and Boh Foi Toch [nl] became successful with their overt disapproval of what they experienced as "misplaced Dutch snobbery" and the Western Dutch contempt for (speakers of) Low Saxon dialects, they gained a following among the more rurally oriented inhabitants, launching Low Saxon as a sub-culture. They inspired contemporary dialect artists and rock bands, such as Daniël Lohues [nl], Mooi Wark [Nl], Jovink en de Voederbietels [Nl], Hádiejan [Nl]
Nonetheless, the position of the language is vulnerable according to UNESCO.[18]  Low Saxon is still spoken more widely than in Northern Germany. Efforts are made in Germany and in the Netherlands to protect Low German as a regional language.
Sound change[edit]
As with the Anglo-Frisian and North Germanic languages, Low German has not been influenced by the High German consonant shift except for old /ð/ having shifted to /d/. Therefore, a lot of Low German words sound similar to their English counterparts. One feature that does distinguish Low German from English generally is final devoicing of obstruents, as exemplified by the words 'good' and 'wind' below. This is a characteristic of Dutch and German as well and involves positional neutralization of voicing contrast in the coda position for obstruents (i.e. t = d at the end of a syllable.) This is not used in English except in the Yorkshire dialect, where there is a process known as Yorkshire assimilation.[46]
For instance: water [wɒtɜ, ˈwatɜ, ˈwætɜ], later [ˈlɒːtɜ, ˈlaːtɜ, ˈlæːtɜ], bit [bɪt], dish [dis, diʃ], ship [ʃɪp, skɪp, sxɪp], pull [pʊl], good [ɡou̯t, ɣɑu̯t, ɣuːt], clock [klɔk], sail [sɑi̯l], he [hɛi̯, hɑi̯, hi(j)], storm [stoːrm], wind [vɪˑnt], grass [ɡras, ɣras], hold [hoˑʊl(t)], old [oˑʊl(t)].
The table below shows the relationship between Low German consonants which were unaffected by this chain shift and their equivalents in other West Germanic languages. Contemporary Swedish and Icelandic shown for comparison; Eastern and Western North Germanic languages, respectively.
Proto-Germanic
High German
Northern Low German
Dutch
English
High German
West Frisian
Swedish
Icelandic
-k-
-ch-
maken
maken
make
machen
meitsje
maka (arch.)
k-
k-
Keerl (Kerl) (fellow)
kerel
churl
Kerl *
tsjirl (arch.)
karl
karl
d-
t-
Dag
dag
day
Tag
dei
dag
dagur
-t-
-ss-
eten (ȩten, äten) [Westphalian: iäten]
eten
eat
essen
ite
äta
eta
t-
z- (/t͡s/)
teihn (tein)
tien
ten
zehn
tsien
tio
tíu
-tt-
-tz-, -z-  (/t͡s/)
sitten
zitten
sit
sitzen
sitte
sitta
sitja
-p
-f, -ff
Schipp, Schepp, and Schüpp
schip
ship
Schiff
skip
skepp ***
skip
p-
pf-
Peper
peper
pepper
Pfeffer
piper
peppar
pipar
-β-
-b-
Wiew, Wiewer; Wief, Wiewer; Wief, Wiever; Wief, Wieber
wijf, wijven **
wife, wives
Weib, Weiber **
wiif, wiven
viv **
víf
Notes:
* High German Kerl is a loanword from Low German
** The series Wief–wijf, etc. are cognates, not semantic equivalents. The meanings of some of these words have shifted over time. For example, the correct equivalent term for "wife" in modern Dutch, German and Swedish is vrouw, Frau and fru respectively; using wijf, Weib or viv for a human is considered archaic in Swedish and nowadays derogatory in Dutch and German, comparable to "wicked girl". No cognate to Frau / vrouw / fru has survived in English (compare Old English frōwe "lady"; the English word frow "woman, lady" rather being a borrowing of the Middle Dutch word).
*** Pronounced shepp since the 17th century
Grammar[edit]
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Low German" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. The specific problem is: Besides being unsourced, the article is wrong (or at best incomplete and misleading). Also, as there are different Low German dialects with different grammar, it probably makes more sense to give the dialectal grammar in articles like Northern Low Saxon, Low Prussian dialect, Westphalian language etc. Please help improve this article if you can. (October 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Generally speaking, Low German grammar shows similarities with the grammars of Dutch, Frisian, English, and Scots, but the dialects of Northern Germany share some features (especially lexical and syntactic features) with German dialects.
Verbs[edit]
In Low German verbs are conjugated for person, number, and tense. There are five tenses in Low German:[citation needed] present tense, preterite, perfect, and pluperfect, and in Mennonite Low German the present perfect which signifies a remaining effect from a past finished action. For example, "Ekj sie jekomen", "I am come", means that the speaker came and he is still at the place to which he came as a result of his completed action.
Unlike Dutch, High German, and southern Low German, the northern dialects form the past participle without the prefix ge-, like the Scandinavian languages, Frisian and English. Compare northern Low German slapen to the German past participle geschlafen. This past participle is used with the auxiliary verbs hewwen/hebben "to have" and wesen/sin/sien "to be". When the past participle ends with -en or in a few oft-used words like west (been).
There is also a progressive form of verbs in present, corresponding to the same in the Dutch language.
It is formed with wesen (to be), the preposition an (at) and dat (the/it).
 
Low German
Dutch
English
Main form
Ik bün an't Maken.
Ik ben aan het maken.
I am making.
Main form 2
Ik do maken.1
–
–
Alternative form
Ik bün an'n Maken.2
Ik ben aan het maken.
–
Alternative form 2
Ik bün maken.3
Ik ben makende.
I am making.
1 Instead of wesen, sien (to be) Saxon uses doon (to do) to make to present continuous.
2 Many see the 'n as an old dative ending of dat which only occurs when being shortened after prepositions. This is actually the most frequently-used form in colloquial Low German.
3 This form is archaic and mostly unknown to Low German speakers. It is the same pattern as in the English example "I am making." The present participle has the same form as the infinitive: maken is either "to make" or "making".
Adjectives[edit]
The forms of Low German's adjectives are distinct from other closely related languages such as German and English. These forms fall somewhere in between these two languages. As in German, the adjectives in Low German may make a distinction between singular and plural to agree with the nouns that they modify,[47] as well as between the three genders, between the nominative and oblique cases and between indefinite (weak) and definite (strong) forms.[48] However, there is a lot of variation in that respect and some or all of these distinctions may also be absent, so that a single undeclined form of the adjective can occur in all cases, as in English. This is especially common in the neuter.[48] If the adjective is declined, the pattern tends to be as follows:
Gender
Nominative
Oblique
Gloss
Masculine
indefinite singular
en starke(n) Kerl
en(en) starke(n) Kerl
'a strong man'
indefinite plural
starke Kerls
starke Kerls
'strong men'
definite singular
de starke Kerl
den starken Kerl
'the strong man'
definite plural
de starken Kerls
de starken Kerls
'the strong men'
Feminine
indefinite singular
en(e) smucke Deern
en(e) smucke Deern
'a pretty girl'
indefinite plural
smucke Deerns
smucke Deerns
'pretty girls'
definite singular
de smucke Deern
de smucke Deern
'the pretty girl'
definite plural
de smucken Deerns
de smucken Deerns
'the pretty girls'
Neuter
indefinite singular
en lütt((e)t) Land
en lütt((e)t) Land
'a little country'
indefinite plural
lütt Lannen
lütt Lannen
'little countries'
definite singular
dat lütte Land
dat lütte Land
'the little country'
definite plural
de lütten Lannen
de lütten Lannen
'the little countries'
As mentioned above, alternative undeclined forms such as dat lütt Land, de lütt Lannen, en stark Kerl, de stark Kerl, stark Kerls, de stark Kerls etc. can occur.
Phonology[edit]
Consonants[edit]
Labial
Alveolar
Post-alveolar
Palatal
Velar/Uvular
Glottal
Stop
voiceless
p
t
(tʃ)
k
voiced
b
d
ɡ
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
ʃ
(ç)
x
h
voiced
v
z
(ʒ)
(ɣ)
Nasal
m
n
ŋ
Trill
r
(ʀ)
Approximant
lateral
l
plain
j
A common feature of the Low German speaking dialects, is the retraction of /s z/ to [s̠ z̠].[49][50]
The sound [ɣ] can occur as an allophone of /ɡ/ among dialects.
/r/ and /x/ can have allophones as [ɾ] and [ç].
/r/ can be articulated as uvular [ʀ] among Northern dialects and younger speakers.
The sound /j/ can also be realized as fricative or affricate sounds [ʝ~ʑ~ʒ], [dʒ], in word-initial position.[51][52]
Vowels[edit]
Front
Central
Back
unrounded
rounded
short
long
short
long
short
long
short
long
Close
ɪ
iː
ʏ
yː
ʊ
uː
Close-mid
eː
øː
ə
oː
Open-mid
ɛ
ɛː
œ
œː
(ɐ)
ɔ
ɔː
Open
a
aː
(ɑ)
(ɒː)
[ɒ] and [ɐ] can occur as allophones of /a/ and /r/.[51]
Vowel backness of /a/ to [ɑ] may also occur among dialects.[53]
Diphthongs
Front
Back
Close
ia, iɛ, iə
ua, uɛ, uɔ
Close-mid
eˑi, ea
øˑi, (øa)
 oˑu, oa
Open-mid
ɛɪ
œɪ
ɔʊ, ɔˑi, ɔˑy
Open
aˑɪ, aˑi
aˑʊ, aˑu
[ɑ] can be heard as an allophone of /a/ within diphthongs.
Long phonemes /eː/, /øː/, /oː/, occur mostly in the Geest dialects, while in other dialects, they may be realized as diphthongs.[54][52]
Writing system[edit]
Low German is written using the Latin alphabet. There is no official standard orthography, though there are several locally more or less accepted orthographic guidelines. Those in the Netherlands are mostly based on Dutch orthography and may vary per dialect region, and those in Germany mostly follow German orthography. To the latter group belongs the orthography devised by Johannes Sass. It is mostly used by modern official publications and internet sites, especially the Low German Wikipedia. This diversity, a result of centuries of official neglect and suppression, has a very fragmenting and thus weakening effect on the language as a whole, since it has created barriers that do not exist on the spoken level.[55][citation needed]  Interregional and international communication is severely hampered by this.[citation needed] Most of these systems aim at representing the phonetic (allophonic) output rather than underlying (phonemic) representations.[citation needed]
Written Language Examples[edit]
East-Westphalian[edit]
(German spelling)
Location of the variety whithin the Low German language area
Häi, hault maol!" reip de Schaiper den beiden Naowerjunges taou, de just nan Faile förn, "ick mott ju eiys wat votelln". "Brr! Wat gifft denn nijes?" fraogen de beiden. "Jä, voschrecket ju män nich!" fenk de Schaiper an, "out jun House kümp baule en Lêik. Ick hä vüörge Nacht seiyen, at de Mester in jun Backs en Sark maouk" "Hässe sieker in Babylon singen haot", lachen en de beiden out.
Kuotte Têit dorup waord de Var van de beiden krank un starv. De Mester quam ton Sark maken. Hüwelbank un Brä stün'n uppe Diäl: De Schaiper söll doch nich sin'n Willn häm'm. Auk waord'n Mester na ansägt, den Sark up kenne annern Stêie aose uppe Diäl färrig to maken. – Uppe Diäl aower wast döüster un binauet, un de Mester männ baule: " Wat de dauern Junges wull daobêi hätt, at ik den Sark hêier maken sall, in'n Backs geiht't doch viel biätter." He packe sick de gansen Saken uppe Kaorn, schauf daomet nan Backse un arbêije hêier wüdder.
Wo dao de beidn Junges, de na Kaounitz wän wörn, uppn Hoff quaim, trum'm se ährn eigen Augen nich: Aolles, wat de Schaiper seiyen ha, was indruopen.[56]
South Westphalian[edit]
(German spelling) 
Location of the variety whithin the Low German language area
Wamme' ter waterporten rut'r geet, üewwer baie brüggen, tem Feer'l rop'r, as wamme no Walmerich wöll, bi den Hospitöler—böümen owwer siek links häld un den biarg gerade rop stieget, do op" dann dian wiagg inschled, dai no Bremge fö'erd: so süht me° in ener ecke en steenhoup, dai noch en wennig 'ner müre glieket. Düesse steenhoup was fiar tien' en sloatt', un op diam sloatte wu'nde de Beer'Ikhus, diamme no" sloatt un üemmegie ggend Beer Ikhusen" hedden. Domols gong hiehiar en haupwiagg, fiell befo'ert, berien' un ren, noch mehr bi nachd. Dann lachdel Beer'lIkhus op der luer, strofte wat kam, lüe te bego'n. So siekker amme dage dai wiagg was, so unsiekker wor hai, wann 't owend woll faute', fo'er-unkoup-lüe". Unger den wiaggen harre dai droot" li'en. Kam 'ne kare oder en piard ferbi, so toug dai droot 'ne schelle, dai op'm sloatte hong: dann Beer'lkhus foord op un futt". Wollen se ne packen, sou verlousen°se balle si'n spuar, dann hai harre si' nen piarren de isern verkaard unger den beenen; wann se mainden, hai wör op sinem sloatte, so was hai ganz wo anders, un wann sai ian ganz wo anders glowwten, was hai ter hemen. Et kamen klagen üewwer klagen no Attendor'n, – un diam üewwel mochte afholpen weren. Lange tiet woll 't nit gero'n, bit in der kristnachd. Me harre utspickeleerd, dat Beer'Ikhus nachd no Hellen" in de kiarke wöll. Indiamme nu ene afdeelunge no Beer'lkhusen toug, det sloatt in brand staak un plünderde, warde dai andere afdeelunge op'm biarge op den Beer lkhus. Do küemmet'e van Hellen terrügge, si'ne fraue süht Beer'lkhusen in hellen flammen, sloatt ies verewiged se brannte woren, ,,o elend, o elend!" Do slott kugein sai un Beer Ikhus doud. Dai bit innen grund af. De ghüdder follen an Attendor'n. dann noch zunders hed dat stücke, wo düet geschog,„et elend". Et sloatt brannte bit innen grund af. De ghüdder follen an Attendor'n.[57]
Westphalian Dialect of the County of Bentheim[edit]
("West Overiessel Spelling)
Location of the variety whithin the Low German language area
Round um mij to bleuiden houndeblomen, botterblomen, zoerblaa en anner gewas. Um mij to zoemden en broemden de iemen en als reuk zoa hearlijk mooi. Up 't water van 'n kolk heurde ik of en to 'n paar einten snadern en in 't leuis [riet] zeuink 'ne reetmusse. Anners was 't heelmoals stil um mij to. Dan heurde ik up 't moal een zacht gerusse in 't grös. 'ne Eweldasse kwam up mij an. Ik bleef heel stil zitten um dat dearken nich to verschrikken. Up 'ne schiere zaundstee höl 't up an, misschien um zik to zunnen. Joa, hier bleef et en reurde zik nich mear. Dat keump mij good topasse. Noew kun ik mij dat kroepdear eem good bekieken. Ziene hoed was greun-broen met witte stippen drup. De bene wassen zoa raa ofknikt en ze schienden mij at of ze wal slim kot wassen, want et lief raakte up de ground. Wal hoast een half uur heb ik et gedullig bij dat dearken oethollen.[58]
Eastphalian[edit]
"Spelling of "Ostfälische Bibliothek"
Location of the variety whithin the Low German language area
Wöi wüllt ja tau jök reoverkumen, aver wöi hevvet
neine Töid", säe möine Friu, "diu weist doch eok, dat
möin H. nich mäier sau giud tau Faute is. Vor twei
Wecken herre hei wier Weidoge, un ek säe tau üene, hei
schall nich sauviel arbeien. Hei wolle nich up mek
hüeren. Wöi saiht üsch dann morgen. Gistern wüeren
Luie in'n Derpe, däi wollen Swöine koipen."[59]
Schleswigsch[edit]
("Sass – Ergänzende Schreibweise")
Location of the variety whithin the Low German language area
Wi gungen dool no de Stöörwischen, Jehann-Ōhm un ik. 
Mien Vedder Hans hârr dor ėn hâlf Dutz Jitten lōpen dėn
Summer över, un hē hârr sō veel mit de Oorn tō dōōn, datt 
hē sik um de lütten Bēēster ni kümmern kunn. Dat wēēr dat 
rechte Oornwedder. Hier un dor drēēv ėn witte Wulk, de 
Westwind broch ėn lütte Kȫhlen mit un wēēǧ de Ellern
an Grȫȫv un Beek liesen hėn un her. Op de 
Wischen grosen Jungvēēh, Melkkȫh un Töten mit 
süm Fohlen. Ėn Hârder wēēr dor ni bi, brēde, 
blanke Grȫḃen hegen süm in, datt süm ni
wieken kunnen. 
De Ōl’ lēēp as ėn Tüüt, ėn gōden
Gang dä ėm nix, un sien grōten, klōken Ōgen worrn dor âllns 
bi wies. 
"Kiek, lütt’ Dōris", sä hē opmool un wies no ėn
Slupplock. "Loot uns hėngohn, de Dēērn 
muttst du di mool ansēhn."[60]
East Frisian Low German[edit]
(East Frisian Spelling)
Location of the variety whithin the Low German language area
Däi lütje Hevelman -Theodor Storm – 0nno Dirk Feldmann
Dat was insent 'n lütje fent un däi hēt fan
Hēvelman. 'S nachts slēp häi in 'n grột rullenbäer
un ök 's nóómiddağs, dõ häi möej was. Man wen
häi näit Sõ möej was, mus sin mauder hum d'r in
in d' dörns umforen un d'r kun häi nõjt nauğ fan
krīgen.
Dõ lağ däi lütje Hềvelman up äin nacht in sin
rullenbäer un kun näit inslóópen, man däi mauder
slēp al lâng tēgen hum up d' grột berstē. Man däi
hār fær häil stif bäien un õk häil ğin rullen, düs
dat 'n hēmelberstē was.
"Mauder", rēp däi lütje Hēvelman, "ik wil foren!"
Un däi mauder langde in d' slóóp höör ārm tau 't
bäer ūt un rulde däi lütje berstē up un dóól. Altīd
up un dóól un dõ höör ārm möej wur, rēp däi
lütje Hēvelman: "Mēr, mēr!" Un dõ gung dat
rullen wēr fan näjs tau. Man up 't läest slēp säi
häilundal un sõ fööl Hềvelman ök gilpen muğ, säi
höörde niks.
'T was sğier dóón. – Dõ dürs dat näit lâng, dõ kēk
däi móón tau d' rūden in. Däi gâud oel móón un
wat häi dõ sağ was sõ putserğ, dat häi sük ērst
insent mit sin pelsmauen õwer 't siecht strēk, sük
sin õgen tau wiskern, sõ wat hār däi oel móón sin
lēvend näit säin.[61]
Pomeranian[edit]
(unknown spelling)
Location of the variety whithin the former Low German language area
De fest
Ik kün min fruch im béa ni fina,
zái láich ni fóa, zái láich ni hína.
Ik náim a béssam un rakt álas dóa
dun láibs mi tíscha báina dóa.
Ik nêicht min fruch tam nam fest hen móka,
zái zéa ni nêi, zái vu bits schlópa.
Ik zéia ta é kumas mit schên fruch,
véia tus bliva ik ni in ruch.
Un vi móka lôus na dem grôuda fest
Vôua féel vila zínha
un dái muskandas schpéla zêia
un min fruch dáu ik véra nich fina.
Vili, Víli Lindeman, drink ma nich zôu fel,
zíza, zíza krist schacht mit áin béssam schtel.
Vili, Vili Lindeman, trek din hôuza schtram,
zíza vets vat di passira kan. Ha! Ha! Ha![62]
Transcription in Tressmann's spelling.
Mij häwa 's forteld dat fel fon ous lüür dai saitung ni leesa. Un dat schal dắr an leiga, dat fel dai
pomersch språk ni eindig forståa. Wek haara al meint, dã müüst wat up pomersch språk sreewa
waara. Åwer wat lount uk dat hochdüütsch? Dat sin jå uk ni meir fel wat dat no koina. Ik häw
mij oiwerlegt un frågt: wouwegen ni up pomersch srijwa? Dat jā, dat is ous språk, dat forståa
wij ala. Wen dat ous språk is, wouweega schoila's wij ni benutsa? Natürlich, dat srijwen is går
ni sou einfach, weegen wij häwa kain gramatik. Wekmål wet man ni wek wõir srijwa schal.
Äwer dat wichtigst is, mein ik, dat wij ous forstäa, wen 't ouk wekmålmeir krum ruuter kümt.
Am forståen, dår schal 't ni an leiga. Ik wait dat vel lüür sich up platdüütsch braiws srijwa,
tüscha hijr um Rondonia. Ik häw al sou gâr souna braiw lest un dat wäir gaud taum forståen.
Dat is air saichen dat dai lüür sich dreigen forståa. Sou as dat haita däit: wer kaine hund hät,
jacht mit ein kat.
Åwer loowa jij mij: wen man sich richtig oiwerlegt, is dat går ni richtig dat wij ous språk
as "quebra-galo" forstãa! Ik waar ma's sega wouweegen: ous språk hăt grår
sou aina weird ås irgends ain anerd språk. Jera folk hãt sijn språk. Un wij, pomersch folk hāwa
dat recht taum ous språk behulen. Dår is kair, wat ous dat forbaira kan. Dår is ouk kair wat dat
recht hät, ous utlachen un utspoten, wen wij ous språk reera un srijwa. Wen ous präk ni eird
waart, dat is grår sou fel as wen dat folk ni eird waart. Dår is dai häka. Dat pomersch folk, sou
as ouk fel andra klain folker, is ümer meir ina ek schoowa wuura. Fijna jij dat richtig? Wår mag
dat an leiga? Anerd mâl mäka wij ous dår wijrer gedanken oiwer.
går ni, wijrer srijwen. Segt juugem preister of dit taum forståen west is. Un forsuikt jij ouk ma's Ảwer bet anerd mål mücht ik ais geern waita of jij dit uk forstãa häwa. Süsta loont jå
un srijft wat am Semeador.[63]
Plautdietsch[edit]
("Plautdietsch Spelling")
Location of the variety whithin the former Low German language area
Wäa wieren Jesus siene Väavodasch?
Dit es daut Rejista von de Väavodasch von Jesus Christus.a Jesus wia een Nokomenda von Kjennich David, un Kjennich David wia Abraham sien Nokomenda.
Abraham wia Isaak sien Voda,
un Isaak wia Jakob sien Voda,
un Jakob wia Juda, un siene Breeda äa Voda.
Juda wia Perez un Serach äa Voda, dee hee met Tamar toop jehaut haud,
un Perez wia Hezron sien Voda,
un Hezron wia Ram sien Voda.
Ram wia Amminadab sien Voda,
un Amminadab wia Nahesson sien Voda,
un Nahesson wia Salma sien Voda.
Salma wia Boas sien Voda, dän hee met Rahab toop jehaut haud,
un Boas wia Obed sien Voda, dän hee met Ruth toop jehaut haud,
un Obed wia Jesse sien Voda.
Jesse wia Kjennich David sien Voda,
un Kjennich David wia Kjennich Salomo sien Voda, dän hee met Uria siene Wätfru toop jehaut haud.
Kjennich Salomo wia Rehabeam sien Voda,
un Rehabeam wia Abia sien Voda,
un Abia wia Asa sien Voda.
Asa wia Josaphat sien Voda,
un Josaphat wia Joram sien Voda,
un Joram wia Usia sien Voda.
Usia wia Jotham sien Voda,
un Jotham wia Ahas sien Voda,
un Ahas wia Hiskia sien Voda.
Hiskia wia Manasse sien Voda,
un Manasse wia Amon sien Voda,
un Amon wia Josia sien Voda.
Un too de Tiet von de babielonische Jefangenschoft, wia Josia de Voda von Jechonja, un von Jechonja siene Breeda.
Un no de babielonische Jefangenschoft, wia Jechonja de Voda von Sealtiel,
un Sealthiel wia Serubabel sien Voda.
Serubabel wia Abiud sien Voda,
un Abiud wia Eliakim sien Voda,
un Eliakim wia Asor sien Voda.
Asor wia Zadok sien Voda,
un Zadok wia Achim sien Voda,
un Achim wia Eliud sien Voda.
Eliud wia Eleazar sien Voda,
un Eleazar wia Matthan sien Voda,
un Matthan wia Jakob sien Voda.
Jakob wia Josef sien Voda, un Josef wia Maria äa Maun.
Maria wia Jesus siene Mutta, un Jesus wort dän Christus jenant.
Un soo see wie dan daut Jesus Christus, haud vieetieen Väavodasch, dee von ons Väavoda Abraham bat Kjennich David jeläft hauden; un hee haud vieetieen aundre Väavodasch, dee von Kjennich David bat de babielonische Jefangenschoft jeläft hauden; un dan haud Jesus noch eemol vieetieen Väavodasch, dee von de babielonische Jefangenschoft bat siene Jeburt jeläft hauden.
Dit es de Jeschicht von de Jeburt von Jesus Christus
Jesus Christus siene Jeburt wia soo aus dit passieet. Aus Jesus siene Mutta Maria, sikj Josef aunvetrut haud, dan wia see vom Heiljen Jeist schwanga jeworden, ea see un Josef sikj befriet hauden.Josef wia een gottesferchtja Mensch, un wiel Maria schwanga wia, dan wull hee sikj aul nich met äa befrieen. Un soo entschloot Josef sikj de Kjast bloos plietsch auftosajen, wiel hee Maria nich effentlich too Schaunden moaken wull.
Un seet junt, aus Josef sikj äwa aul dit besonnen haud, dan kjeem een Enjel vom Harn no am en een Droom, un säd, "Josef, Nokomenda von Kjennich David, fercht die nich Maria aus diene Fru too nämen, wiel daut Kjint wuamet see schwanga es, es vom Heiljen Jeist.  Maria woat een Sän han, un du saust am Jesus nanen. Jesus meent, 'de Har es Rada'. Un doawäajen saust du am Jesus nanen, wiel hee es deejanja, dee sien Volkj von äare Sinden friemoaken woat."
Aul dit wia dan uk soo passieet aus de Har sien Profeet, daut aul sea lang trigj jesajcht haud,
"Seet junt," säd de Profeet, "ne reine Junkfru woat schwanga woaren, un see woat een Sän han.
Un äa Sän woaren see Immanuel nanen.", säd de Profeet.
Immanuel meent, "Gott es mank ons".
Aus Josef vom Schlop oppwuak, dan jehorcht hee dän Enjel vom Harn, un hee befried sikj met Maria. Un Josef un Maria hauden kjeene Jeschlajchtsvekjia, bat Maria äa ieeschten Sän haud. Un Josef nand am Jesus.[64]
Spoken Examples[edit]
Notable Low German writers and performers[edit]
Heinrich Bandlow
Hans-Friedrich Blunck
John Brinckmann
De fofftig Penns
Gorch Fock
Friedrich Wilhelm Grimme (Westphalian: Sauerländisch)
Klaus Groth (Dithmarsisch)
August Hermann
Joachim Mähl
Johann Meyer (Dithmarsisch)
Martha Müller-Grählert
Fritz Reuter (Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch)
Willem Schröder
Julius Stinde
Rudolf Tarnow
Augustin Wibbelt (Westphalian: Münsterländisch)
Wilhelm Wieben
Hans-Jürgen Massaquoi
Normaal
Daniël Lohues
Middle Low German authors:
Eggerik Beninga
Balthasar Russow
Albert Suho
Plautdietsch authors:
Arnold Dyck
Reuben Epp
Jack Thiessen
See also[edit]
1614 Low German Bible
Bible translations into German
Friar Rush
Hamborger Veermaster
The Juniper Tree (fairy tale)
Meuse-Rhenish
Moin
Ohnsorg-Theater
Masurian dialects
Notes[edit]
^ 2.2–5 million in northern Germany and 2.15 million in eastern Netherlands
^ "Low German" is known by the following other names in other languages. It is known
in the Low German of Germany as Plattdütsch, Plattdüütsch, Plattdütsk, Plattdüütsk, Plattduitsk (South-Westphalian), Plattduitsch (Eastphalian), Plattdietsch (Low Prussian), or Neddersassisch, or Nedderdüütsch;
in the Low Saxon of the Netherlands as Nedersaksisch;
in (Standard) High German as Plattdeutsch, Niedersächsisch, Niederdeutsch (in a stricter sense) or Platt, pronounced [plat] i (which can also mean dialect and refer to non-Low German varieties);
in Dutch as Saksisch, Nedersaksisch, Platduits, Nederduits [ˈneːdərdœyts] i (in a stricter sense);
in Danish as Plattysk;
plus, other dialectal variants exist.
References[edit]
^ Taaltelling Nedersaksisch, H. Bloemhoff. (2005). p88.
^ STATUS UND GEBRAUCH DES NIEDERDEUTSCHEN 2016, A. Adler, C. Ehlers, R. Goltz, A. Kleene, A. Plewnia (2016)
^ a b The Other Languages of Europe: Demographic, Sociolinguistic, and Educational Perspectives by Guus Extra, Durk Gorter; Multilingual Matters, 2001 – 454; page 10.
^ Saxon, Low Ethnologue.
^ Maas, Sabine (2014). Twents op sterven na dood? : een sociolinguïstisch onderzoek naar dialectgebruik in Borne. Münster New York: Waxmann. p. 19. ISBN 978-3830980339.
^ German: § 23 Absatz 1 Verwaltungsverfahrensgesetz (Bund).Die Frage, ob unter deutsch rechtlich ausschließlich die hochdeutsche oder auch die niederdeutsche Sprache subsumiert wird, wird juristisch uneinheitlich beantwortet: Während der BGH in einer Entscheidung zu Gebrauchsmustereinreichung beim Deutschen Patent- und Markenamt in plattdeutscher Sprache das Niederdeutsche einer Fremdsprache gleichstellt („Niederdeutsche (plattdeutsche) Anmeldeunterlagen sind im Sinn des § 4a Abs. 1 Satz 1 GebrMG nicht in deutscher Sprache abgefaßt.“ – BGH-Beschluss vom 19. November 2002, Az. X ZB 23/01), ist nach dem Kommentar von Foerster/Friedersen/Rohde zu § 82a des Landesverwaltungsgesetzes Schleswig-Holstein unter Verweis auf Entscheidungen höherer Gerichte zu § 184 des Gerichtsverfassungsgesetzes seit 1927 (OLG Oldenburg, 10. Oktober 1927 – K 48, HRR 1928, 392) unter dem Begriff deutsche Sprache sowohl Hochdeutsch wie auch Niederdeutsch zu verstehen.
^ Unterschiedliche Rechtsauffassungen, ob Niederdeutsch in Deutschland insgesamt Amtssprache ist – siehe dazu: Amtssprache (Deutschland); zumindest aber in Schleswig-Holstein und Mecklenburg-Vorpommern
^ Verein für niederdeutsche Sprachen in Brandenburg
^ Bundesrat für niederdeutsche Sprache, Neuigkeiten aus Brandenburg
^ Los Menonitas en Bolivia Archived 3 December 2013 at the Wayback Machine CNN en Español
^ El Comercio: Menonitas cumplen 85 años en Paraguay con prosperidad sin precedentes
^ "Regionalsprache Niederdeutsch". Beauftragte für Aussiedlerfragen und nationale Minderheiten (in German). Retrieved 25 August 2023.
^ Hubertus Menke: Niederdeutsch: Eigenständige Sprache oder Varietät einer Sprache? In: Schmitsdorf et al. (Hrsgg.): Lingua Germanica. Studien zur deutschen Philologie. Jochen Splett zum 60. Geburtstag. Münster 1998, S. 171–184.
^ "STATUS UND GEBRAUCH DES NIEDERDEUTSCHEN 2016" (PDF). ins-bremen.de. p. 40. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 January 2021. Retrieved 13 March 2021.
^ Bloemhoff, H. (2005). Taaltelling Nedersaksisch. Een enquête naar het gebruik en de beheersing van het Nedersaksisch in Nederland. p88. Groningen: Sasland.
^ "Gechattet wird auf Plattdeusch". Noz.de. 21 August 2013. Retrieved 14 March 2014.
^ a b Based on figures cited in STATUS UND GEBRAUCH DES NIEDERDEUTSCHEN 2016 Archived 13 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine, page 15.
^ a b "UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in danger". www.unesco.org.
^ Driessen, Geert (2012). "Ontwikkelingen in het gebruik van Fries, streektalen en dialecten in de periode 1995–2011" (PDF). Radboud University Nijmegen. Retrieved 29 April 2017.
^ Bloemhoff, H., 2005, Taaltelling Nedersaksisch. Een enquête naar het gebruik en de beheersing van het Nedersaksisch in Nederland. Groningen: Sasland
^ "Platdietsch". 27 January 2008. Retrieved 29 February 2008.
^ "O trilinguismo no Colégio Fritz Kliewer de Witmarsum. (Paraná) [The trilingualism the College of Fritz Kliewer Witmarsum (Paraná)]" (PDF) (in Portuguese). Elvine Siemens Dück. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 June 2013. Retrieved 23 September 2012.
^ (in Portuguese) Claudio Vereza, Espírito Santo's state assemblyman by the Workers' Party | The Pomeranian people in Espírito Santo Archived 21 December 2012 at the Wayback Machine
^ Shin, Hyon B.; Kominski, Robert A. (1 April 2010). Language Use in the United States: 2007 (Report). USCB.
^ Cf. the definition of high in the Oxford English Dictionary (Concise Edition): "[…] situated far above ground, sea level, etc; upper, inland, as […] High German".
^ "Mundart/Platt". www.philhist.uni-augsburg.de. Retrieved 6 June 2018.
^ NDR. "Plattdeutsches Wörterbuch". www.ndr.de (in German). Retrieved 5 August 2023.
^ Nielsen, Hans Frede (31 December 2001), "48. Frisian and the Grouping of the Older Germanic Languages", Handbuch des Friesischen / Handbook of Frisian Studies, DE GRUYTER, pp. 512–523, ISBN 978-3-484-73048-9, retrieved 5 August 2023
^ "Niederdeutsch". www.mundart-kommission.lwl.org (in German). Retrieved 5 August 2023.
^ J. Goossens: "Niederdeutsche Sprache. Versuch einer Definition", in: J. Goossens (ed.), Niederdeutsch. Sprache und Literatur, vol. 1, Neumünster 1973.
^ W. Sanders: Sachsensprache — Hansesprache — Plattdeutsch. Sprachgeschichtliche Grundzüge des Niederdeutschen, Göttingen 1982, p. 32, paraphrasing Heinz Kloss: "Abstandsprachen und Ausbausprachen", in: J. Göschel et al. (edd.), Zur Theorie des Dialekts, Wiesbaden 1976, pp. 301–322.
^ Hubertus Menke: "Niederdeutsch: Eigenständige Sprache oder Varietät einer Sprache?", in: Eva Schmitsdorf et al. (edd.), Lingua Germanica. Studien zur deutschen Philologie. Jochen Splett zum 60. Geburtstag, Waxmann, Münster et al. 1998, pp. 171–184, in particular p. 180.
^ Hubertus Menke: "Niederdeutsch: Eigenständige Sprache oder Varietät einer Sprache?", in: Eva Schmitsdorf et al. (edd.), Lingua Germanica. Studien zur deutschen Philologie. Jochen Splett zum 60. Geburtstag, Waxmann, Münster et al. 1998, pp. 171–184, in particular p. 183f.
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forke, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian, eds. (2020). "Low German". Glottolog 4.3.
^ Cf. Institut für niederdeutsche Sprache – Sprachenpolitik
^ Sprachenchartabericht of the regional government of Schleswig-Holstein for 2016, p. 14 f.
^ Cf. the German Wikipedia article on Niederdeutsche Sprache.
^ Sanders, W. (1982) Sachsensprache, Hansesprache, Plattdeutsch. Sprachgeschichtliche Grundzüge des Niederdeutschen. Göttingen: Vandenhoeck & Rupprecht.
^ "Reynke de Vos, Book 1". www.dodedans.com. Retrieved 7 August 2023.
^ "Sassen | Sassisk voot voer voot". www.sassen.land. Retrieved 7 August 2023.
^ a b c Langer, Nils and Robert Langhanke (2013). "How to Deal with Non-Dominant Languages – Metalingusitic Discourses on Low German in the Nineteenth Century". Linguistik Online. 58 (1). doi:10.13092/lo.58.240.
^ "Low Saxon". Ethnologue. Retrieved 28 April 2022.
^ http://l10n.kde.org/stats/gui/trunk-kde4/nds/[dead link]
^ "Linux op Platt". 1 July 2012. Archived from the original on 1 July 2012. Retrieved 6 June 2018.
^ "Hartlich willkamen bi KDE op Platt". nds.i18n.kde.org. Retrieved 6 June 2018.
^ See John Wells, Accents of English, pages 366–7, Cambridge University Press, 1981
^ Biddulph, Joseph (2003). Platt and Old Saxon: Plattdeutsch (Low German) in its Modern and Historical Forms. Wales: Cyhoeddwr JOSEPH BIDDULPH Publisher.
^ a b SASS Plattdeutsche Grammatik 2.5.2. Deklination der Adjektive
^ R.E. Keller, German Dialects. Phonology and Morphology, Manchester 1960
^ Adams (1975:289)
^ a b Höder, Steffen (2013). Low German. A profile of a word language. Syllable and word languages; Chapter: Low German: de Gruyter.
^ a b Goltz, Reinhard H.; Walker, Alastair G.H. (1990). North Saxon. The Dialects of Modern German: A Linguistic Survey: Routledge. pp. 31–58.
^ Prehn, Maike (2012). Vowel quantity and the fortis-lenis distinction in North Low Saxon (PDF). Amsterdam: LOT.
^ Lindow, Wolfgang (1998). Niederdeutsche Grammatik. Leer: Schuster. pp. 25–45.
^ Dieter Stellmacher: Niederdeutsche Grammatik – Phonologie und Morphologie. In: Gerhard Cordes & Dieter Möhn: Handbuch zur niederdeutschen Sprach- und Literaturwissenschaft. Berlin: Erich Schmidt Verlag 1983, p.239.
^ "Plattdeutsche Sagen: Vöiergeschichte out Bornholte". www.plattdeutsch-niederdeutsch.net. Retrieved 4 August 2023.
^ Sauerländische Mundarttexte aus den „Völkerstimmen“ von Johannes Matthias Firmenich (1808–1889) / bearb. von Magdalene Fiebig (in German). 2010.
^ "Swarwen". uelsen-und-umgebung.de. Retrieved 4 August 2023.
^ "Ostfalenpost – Bibliothek". www.ostfalenpost.de. Retrieved 26 August 2023.
^ "Meldörp-Böker – Ditschi-Platt, tru di dat!" (in German). Retrieved 5 August 2023.
^ "Downloads – Ōstfräisk Wōrdenbauk – Ostfriesisches Wörterbuch". oostfraeisk.org. Retrieved 4 August 2023.
^ "IK DAU DÓT BLAUMA FUTÉLA: apontamentos sobre memória e identidade pomerana através da música".
^ Postma, G. (2019). A Contrastive Grammar of Brazilian Pomeranian. Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today. John Benjamins Publishing Company. ISBN 978-90-272-6353-7. Retrieved 13 August 2023.
^ "Matäus 1". www.scriptureearth.org. Retrieved 4 August 2023.
Bibliography[edit]
Adams, Douglas Q. (1975), "The Distribution of Retracted Sibilants in Medieval Europe", Language, Linguistic Society of America, 51 (2): 282–292, doi:10.2307/412855, JSTOR 412855
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Low German language.
Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Low German phrasebook.
 Low German (Germany) edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
 Low Saxon (Netherlands) edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Plautdietsch test of Wikipedia at Wikimedia Incubator
Wikisource has the text of the 1905 New International Encyclopedia article  "Plattdeutsch".
http://www.plattmaster.de/
http://www.platt-online.de/
http://www.niederdeutschzentrum.de/
https://www.deutsch-plattdeutsch.de/
Online dictionaries[edit]
Plattmakers dictionary with more than 20,000 word entries, with translations and interface available in several languages (English too)
Dictionary of the Drents dialect (Dutch)
Mennonite Low German-English Dictionary
Dictionary in the Sass Orthography (German)
Information[edit]
Nu is de Welt platt! International resources in and about Low German
Building Blocks of Low Saxon (Low German), an introductory grammar in English and German
Niederdeutsch/Plattdeutsch in Westfalen, by Olaf Bordasch
Mönsterlänner Plat, by Klaus-Werner Kahl
Plattdeutsch heute
Organisations[edit]
IJsselacademie (Overijssel and Veluwe, the Netherlands)
Staring Instituut (Achterhoek, the Netherlands)
Stichting Stellingwarver Schrieversronte (Friesland, the Netherlands)
SONT (General, the Netherlands)
Oostfreeske Taal (Eastern Friesland, Germany)
Diesel – dat oostfreeske Bladdje (Eastern Friesland, Germany)
Institut für niederdeutsche Sprache e.V. (General, Germany)
vte Languages of GermanyOfficial language
(German) Standard High German
Regional/MinoritylanguagesRecognized
Danish
Frisian
North
Saterland
Low German
Romani
Sorbian
Upper
Lower
Unrecognized
Central German
Ripuarian
Moselle Franconian
Upper Saxon
Upper German
Alemannic
Swabian
Bavarian
Low Franconian
Limburgish
German Sign Language
vteGermanic languagesAccording to contemporary philologyWestAnglo-FrisianAnglic
English
dialects
Old English
Middle English
Modern English
Early Modern English
Irish Anglo-Norman
Fingallian
Yola
Scots
Early Scots
Middle Scots
FrisianHistorical forms
Old Frisian
Middle Frisian
East Frisian
Ems
Saterland Frisian
Weser
Wangerooge Frisian
Wursten Frisian
North Frisian
Insular
Eiderstedt
Föhr–Amrum
Föhr
Amrum
Heligolandic
Sylt
Mainland
Bökingharde
Mooring
Halligen
Goesharde
Northern
Central
Southern
Karrharde
Strand
Wiedingharde
West Frisian
Hindeloopen
Schiermonnikoog
Westlauwers–Terschellings
Mainland West Frisian
Clay Frisian
Wood Frisian
Westereendersk
Terschelling
Low GermanHistorical forms
Old Saxon
Middle Low German
West Low German
Dutch Low Saxon
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Gronings
Drèents
Gelders-Overijssels
Achterhooks
Sallaans
Urkers
Veluws
Northern Low Saxon
East Frisian Low Saxon
Eastphalian
Westphalian
East Low German
Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch
Brandenburgisch
Central Pomeranian
East Pomeranian
Low Prussian
Plautdietsch / Mennonite Low German
Low FranconianHistorical forms
Frankish
Old Dutch
Middle Dutch
Standard variants
Dutch
Afrikaans (Kaaps)
West Low Franconian
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
French Flemish
Zeelandic
East Flemish
Brabantian
Surinamese Dutch
Jersey Dutch
Mohawk Dutch
Stadsfries/Bildts/Amelands/Midslands
East Low Franconian
Meuse-Rhenish
Limburgish
Southeast Limburgish
High GermanHistorical forms
Old High German
Middle High German
New High German
Early New High German
Standard German
German Standard German
Austrian Standard German
Swiss Standard German
Non-standard variants and creoles
Namibian German
Namibian Black German
Berlinerisch
Unserdeutsch
Barossa German
Rotwelsch
Lotegorisch
Yenish
Yiddish
Eastern
Western
Scots Yiddish
Klezmer-loshn
Lachoudisch
Central GermanWest Central German
Central Franconian
Ripuarian
Colognian
Moselle Franconian
Luxembourgish
Transylvanian Saxon
Hunsrückisch
Hunsrik
Rhine Franconian
Lorraine Franconian
Palatine
Volga German
Pennsylvania Dutch
Hessian
Central Hessian
Amana German
East Central German
Thuringian
Upper Saxon
Erzgebirgisch
Lusatian
Silesian German
High Prussian
Wymysorys
Halcnovian
Upper German
Alemannic in the broad sense
Low Alemannic
Alsatian
Coloniero
High Alemannic
Swiss German
Highest Alemannic
Walser German
Swabian
Bavarian
Northern Bavarian
Central Bavarian
Viennese German
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Hutterite German
South Franconian
East Franconian
Vogtlandian
Langobardic
North and EastNorthHistorical forms
Proto-Norse
Old Norse
Old West Norse
Old East Norse
Old Gutnish
West
Norwegian
Bergensk
Kebabnorsk
Sognamål
Trøndersk
Valdris
Vestlandsk
Vikværsk
Bokmål (written)
Nynorsk (written)
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Faroese
Icelandic
Old Icelandic
Middle Icelandic
Greenlandic Norse
Norn
East
Swedish
Swedish dialects
Danish
Danish dialects
Insular Danish
Jutlandic
South Jutlandic
East Danish
Bornholmsk
Scanian
Southern Schleswig Danish
Gøtudanskt
Perkerdansk
Old Danish
Middle Danish
Dalecarlian
Elfdalian
Gutnish
Mainland Gutnish
Fårö Gutnish
East
Gothic (Crimean Gothic)
Burgundian
Vandalic
PhilologyLanguage subgroups
North
East
West
Elbe (Irminonic)
Weser-Rhine (Istvaeonic)
North Sea (Ingvaeonic)
Northwest
Gotho-Nordic
South
Reconstructed
Proto-Germanic
Proto-Germanic grammar
Germanic parent language
Ancient Belgian language
Diachronic features
Grimm's law
Verner's law
Holtzmann's law
Sievers's law
Kluge's law
Germanic substrate hypothesis
West Germanic gemination
High German consonant shift
Germanic a-mutation
Germanic umlaut
Germanic spirant law
Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law
Great Vowel Shift
Synchronic features
Germanic verb
Germanic strong verb
Germanic weak verb
Preterite-present verb
Grammatischer Wechsel
Indo-European ablaut
Italics indicate extinct languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control National
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Low_German&oldid=1173505503"
Categories: Low GermanLanguages of GermanyWest Germanic languagesGerman dialectsNorth Sea GermanicHidden categories: Pages that use PhonosArticles containing Low German-language textArticles containing German-language textArticles containing Dutch-language textArticles containing Danish-language textWebarchive template wayback linksCS1 German-language sources (de)CS1 Portuguese-language sources (pt)Articles with Portuguese-language sources (pt)All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2017Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeISO language articles citing sources other than EthnologueAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2008Articles with unsourced statements from May 2008Articles with unsourced statements from November 2014Articles containing Portuguese-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from June 2017Articles needing additional references from June 2019All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Plautdietsch-language textArticles containing Middle Low German-language textArticles containing West Frisian-language textArticles needing additional references from October 2021Articles containing Swedish-language textArticles containing Icelandic-language textArticles containing Old English (ca. 450-1100)-language textArticles needing additional references from May 2016Articles needing cleanup from October 2017All pages needing cleanupCleanup tagged articles with a reason field from October 2017Wikipedia pages needing cleanup from October 2017Articles with unsourced statements from May 2021Articles with unsourced statements from December 2015Articles with unsourced statements from April 2022Articles prone to spam from September 2016Commons category link is on WikidataArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiersUse dmy dates from March 2017
 This page was last edited on 2 September 2023, at 21:33 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width