Border Crossing Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Border Crossing6,497 FollowersRecent papers in Border CrossingTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleIndia's Diverse Borders and Diverse ThreatsAs India successfully positions itself as one of the core, influential nations of the world, its security scenario has become more vulnerable and complex. The roots of India's security challenges lie not only at the regional and... moreAs India successfully positions itself as one of the core, influential nations of the world, its security scenario has become more vulnerable and complex. The roots of India's security challenges lie not only at the regional and international levels but also from within. These threats can be dealt with by securing the borders efficiently. However, the borders of India and their associated problems, geographical, social and cultural, are vivid and varied. Each border receives a different kind of treatment in accordance with the existing mutual relationship across the border. If the border people cannot connect with the country's mainstream, national security is affected. Indian policymakers face a hard challenge to formulate an integrated policy for borderlands and borders. While there are many common cross-border issues, chiefly non-security threats, there are other cross-border issues which are border specific. Besides, soft approaches to economic and cultural cross-border interactions are beneficial. The border security approach focuses on defending the borders from various threats but the border management approach involves protecting the interests of the country across the border.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Shreesh K Pathak•  28  History, Modern History, International Relations, Border StudiesTheory of the Border (Oxford University Press, 2016)There are more types of borders today than ever before in history. Borders of all kinds define every aspect of social life in the twenty-first century. From the biometric data that divides the smallest aspects of our bodies to the aerial... moreThere are more types of borders today than ever before in history. Borders of all kinds define every aspect of social life in the twenty-first century. From the biometric data that divides the smallest aspects of our bodies to the aerial drones that patrol the immense expanse of our domestic and international airspace, we are defined by borders. They can no longer simply be understood as the geographical divisions between nation-states. Today, their form and function has become too complex, too hybrid. What we need now is a theory of the border that can make sense of this hybridity across multiple domains of social life. Rather than viewing borders as the result or outcome of pre-established social entities like states, Thomas Nail reinterprets social history from the perspective of the continual and constitutive movement of the borders that organize and divide society in the first place. Societies and states are the products of bordering, Nail argues, not the other way around. Applying his original movement-oriented theoretical framework "kinopolitics" to several major historical border regimes (fences, walls, cells, and checkpoints), Theory of the Border pioneers a new methodology of "critical limology," that provides fresh tools for the analysis of contemporary border politics.Save to LibraryDownloadby Thomas Nail•  247  Critical Theory, European History, Cultural History, Cultural StudiesRewriting the Faust Myth within Romantic Dualism of Existence in Byrons Manfred and CainAmong the myths revived and rewritten by the romantics Prometheus, Orpheus, Psyche, Apollo, and so on the myth of Faust would provide one of the most congenial ways of textualization of the romantic rise of individualism, in general, and... moreAmong the myths revived and rewritten by the romantics Prometheus, Orpheus, Psyche, Apollo, and so on the myth of Faust would provide one of the most congenial ways of textualization of the romantic rise of individualism, in general, and of some of its individual thematic perspectives, such as dualism of existence, escapism, and rebelliousness, in particular. George Gordon, Lord Byrons impressive literary masterpieces, the lyrical plays Manfred and Cain are among those works that contributed to the rise of the romantic hero in English literature by building up one of its particular as well as most interesting versions, which is known as the Byronic hero. Solitary, inadaptable, arrogant, misfit, escapist or rebellious, whatever would be the common features of the many characters that are labelled as Byronic hero, they still reveal certain distinct features and perform various deeds that allow them to be regarded as particular hypostases of the Byronic hero, among which Childe Harold,...Save to LibraryDownloadby Patricia Denisa Dita•  5  Comparative Literature, English Literature, Art, RomanticismPolicy Considerations regarding the Integration of Lusophone West African Immigrant PopulationsOn January 23, 2012, Resolution No. 3 enacted the National Immigration Strategy for the island nation of Cabo Verde, the first of its kind in the country. As a buffer nation to Western Europe with a rapidly developing economy and good... moreOn January 23, 2012, Resolution No. 3 enacted the National Immigration Strategy for the island nation of Cabo Verde, the first of its kind in the country. As a buffer nation to Western Europe with a rapidly developing economy and good governance indicators, Cabo Verde is transitioning from a sending and transit country to a receiving nation for African mainlanders, especially from Guinea-Bissau. How effective are these immigration policies at managing these changing mobility patterns? Are immigrants successfully integrating into host communities? How might integration be handled more effectively? This policy briefing reports integration successes and failures from ethnographic research and considers the effectiveness of Cabo Verde’s National Immigration Strategy based on these findings. Cabo Verde’s immigration policy targets structural reforms such as education, healthcare, and housing, while additional socio-cultural strategies encourage coexistence among neighbours. Three years o...Save to LibraryDownloadby Brandon D Lundy•Border CrossingEuropean Governments’ Responses to the ‘Refugee Crisis’In the face of the ‘refugee crisis’, many European governments, even in traditionally liberal states, unilaterally introduced a number of restrictive and, often, controversial migration, asylum, and border control policies. The author... moreIn the face of the ‘refugee crisis’, many European governments, even in traditionally liberal states, unilaterally introduced a number of restrictive and, often, controversial migration, asylum, and border control policies. The author argues that past legal-bureaucratic choices on migration and asylum policies, ongoing developments in international relations at that time, the structural and perceived capacity of receiving states to cope with the refugee influx, and long-standing migration-related security concerns influenced the responses of many European governments amid the mass population movement. However, the author also suggests that the surfacing of particular policies across Europe was related to the newly elected Greek government’s attempted U-turn from similar repressive and controversial policies during that time. In this regard, the author maintains that repressive and controversial migration, asylum, and border control policies cannot simply be abolished within the cont...Save to LibraryDownloadby Dimitris Skleparis•  20  Border Studies, Migration, Irregular Migration, European UnionHeyman, Josiah McC. “Class Consciousness in a Complicated Setting: Race, Immigration  Status, Nationality, and Class on the U.S.-Mexico Border" (download available)Offers a fundamental model of intersectionality, and applies it to complex consciousness. Class in an abstract sense is the relationship through which labor is mobilized into specific relations of production, But the means through which... moreOffers a fundamental model of intersectionality, and applies it to complex consciousness.  Class in an abstract sense is the relationship through which labor is mobilized into specific relations of production,  But the means through which such labor is categorized and mobilized  is historically diverse, and includes nationality/citizenship, race, gender, class in a more superficial sense, and so forth.  Thus, class in the setting of the U.S. southwest is enacted through race (Mexican/Anglo) and more recently nationality/immigration status (citizenship).  This helps to understand empirical material that borderlanders (most but not all U.S.-side in origin) tend to merge their class understandings of the border into a discourse of labor and poverty being Mexican (as previously documented by Pablo Vila).  Yet they do have some penetrations of deep class processes.  The notion of a simultaneous view of abstract labor mobilization (abstract class) and empirical, social organization of such labor (surface inequalities) thus enriches the study of intersectionality and consciousness.Save to LibraryDownloadby Josiah Heyman•  21  Latino/A Studies, Marxism, Border Studies, ClassThwarting Jordan’s Bahhara Trade With Syria Risks Social Unrest in RamthaThe Syrian conflict has transformed the economy of Jordan’s northern border region. The changes have been painfully felt in Ramtha, 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) away from the Syrian city of Daraa. Ramtha was a prime destination for Syrian... moreThe Syrian conflict has transformed the economy of Jordan’s northern border region. The changes have been painfully felt in Ramtha, 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) away from the Syrian city of Daraa. Ramtha was a prime destination for Syrian goods imported formally or informally. Petty cross-border trade, especially informal trade, was not only the basis of the city’s economy but also the foundation of an implicit contract between the authorities and locals. The state allowed such trade because it supplemented local revenues, enhancing social stability. This saved the state from investing resources that would have been needed to create jobs. By undermining this understanding, the Syrian conflict provoked growing local discontent.Save to LibraryDownloadby Armenak Tokmajyan•  15  Middle East Studies, Protest, Border Crossing, SyriaAn Economy of Bodily Violence: Fragmented Bodies and Porous Borders in Korean CinemaThis essay analyzes Korean films, Traffickers (Gongmojadeul, Hong-seon Kim, 2012), Sea Fog (Haemoo, Sungbo Shim, 2014), and The Yellow Sea (Hwanghae, Na Hong-jin, 2010), to examine the motif of fragmented bodies and perilous cross-border... moreThis essay analyzes Korean films, Traffickers (Gongmojadeul, Hong-seon Kim, 2012), Sea Fog (Haemoo, Sungbo Shim, 2014), and The Yellow Sea (Hwanghae, Na Hong-jin, 2010), to examine the motif of fragmented bodies and perilous cross-border migrations. These films depict vulnerable bodies that are at risk of being brutalized, mutilated, and dismembered according to the calculating logic of global capital.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hye Jean  Chung•  5  Globalization, Violence, Nationalism, Border CrossingAssimetrias Socioeconômicas e Fluxos Territoriais na Fronteira Brasil-Paraguai: Ponta Porã e Pedro Juan CaballeroResumo: As cidades-gêmeas de Ponta Porã e Pedro Juan Caballero estão entre as principais concentrações urbanas fronteiriças da América Latina. O presente artigo tem por objetivo analisar as assimetrias socioeconômicas e os fluxos... moreResumo: As cidades-gêmeas de Ponta Porã e Pedro Juan Caballero estão entre as principais concentrações urbanas fronteiriças da América Latina. O presente artigo tem por objetivo analisar as assimetrias socioeconômicas e os fluxos territoriais entre as referidas cidades, em específico, focalizando a dinâmica das relações nas áreas da educação, saúde e economia. Como parte de uma pesquisa de iniciação científica, teve por embasamento metodológico o levantamento bibliográfico de conceitos geográficos, o estudo da história regional e a pesquisa de campo, constando de observação simples e entrevistas apropriadas a cada situação. Osdados coletados foram interpretados à luz dos referenciais teóricos.  Palavras-Chave: Fronteira; Assimetrias Socioeconômicas; fluxos Territoriais. Resumen: Las ciudades gemelas de Punta Porã y Pedro Juan Caballero se encuentran entre los principales centros urbanos fronterizos de América Latina. En este artículo se pretende analizar las disparidades socioeconómicas y los flujos territoriales entre ambas ciudades, en particular, centrándose en la dinámica de las relaciones en materia de educación, salud y economía. Como parte de una investigación de iniciación científica, se adoptó como metodología el levantamientobibliográfico de conceptos geográficos, el estudio de la historia regional y la investigación de campo, que consistió en la observación simple y entrevistas según lo que fuera apropiado para cada situación. Los datos fueron interpretados a la luzde marcos teóricos. Palabras claves: Frontera, Disparidades Socioeconómicas, Flujos Territoriales.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vicente Ferraro•  26  Border Studies, Border Crossing, Anthropology of Borders, Borderlands StudiesFamily project or individual choice? Exploring agency in young Eritreans' migrationSince the beginning of 2010s, the movement of unaccompanied minors from Eritrea has significantly increased and has become the object of international concern. This migration is often explained by media and humanitarian actors as the... moreSince the beginning of 2010s, the movement of unaccompanied minors from Eritrea has significantly increased and has become the object of international concern. This migration is often explained by media and humanitarian actors as the mechanical reaction to recent conscription campaigns by the Eritrean government. However, these explanations fail to consider that young people’s mobilities emerge from a context of protracted crisis. Building on the literature on chronicity and crisis in the African context, this article examines what it means to be young in Eritrea and how it relates to the motivations for and the dynamics of youth migration from the country. Drawing from a multi-sited ethnography in Eritrea, Ethiopia and Sudan, the article points to the active role of young migrants – even minors – escaping from contexts of protracted crisis. While analysing the structural constraints faced by Eritrean girls and boys, I first show how migration in this context is often seen as a crucial step to reaching adulthood that has significant gender differences. Then, I explore the interactions between family expectations and individual agency by analysing my informants’ mobility patterns outside Eritrea and in secondary movements towards Europe. While most available literature tends to portray young migrants’ trajectories as the result of structural circumstances or family projects, I illustrate how many of my informants often undertook their journeys without family consensus to pursue personal aspirations as well as communal values regarding moral worthiness and family well-being.Save to LibraryDownloadby Milena Belloni•  8  Border Crossing, Youth, Agency, FamiliesThe free movement of people around the world would be utopianSave to LibraryDownloadby Noemi Salazar•  20  Cultural Studies, Anthropology, Border Studies, Anthropology of MobilityLes enjeux de Schengen et du controle aux frontieresLe village luxembourgeois de Schengen a donné son nom à une refonte de la surveillance des passagers aux frontières en Europe. Il est situé au point de contact de l’Allemagne, de la France et le Benelux, qui inclut la Belgique, les... moreLe village luxembourgeois de Schengen a donné son nom à une refonte de la surveillance des passagers aux frontières en Europe. Il est situé au point de contact de l’Allemagne, de la France et le Benelux, qui inclut la Belgique, les Pays-Bas et le Luxembourg, où se trouve Schengen. Les représentants des cinq États s’y réunirent en juin 1985 et 1990 pour signer deux accords internationaux. Ils devaient supprimer les contrôles entre leurs territoires et renforcer ceux à leurs frontières extérieures. Revenir aux origines et à la conclusion de ces accords permet de mieux comprendre les pratiques qui régissent l’entrée dans l’Union européenne jusqu’à la récente crise migratoire.Save to LibraryDownloadby Emmanuel Comte•  8  Border Crossing, European Integration History, Borders, Borders and FrontiersBorder Images, Border NarrativesThis interdisciplinary volume explores the role of images and representation in different borderscapes. Written by experienced scholars in border studies, the volume shows how borders, borderscapes, and migration are approached in public... moreThis interdisciplinary volume explores the role of images and representation in different borderscapes. Written by experienced scholars in border studies, the volume shows how borders, borderscapes, and migration are approached in public and private spheres as a part of the political aesthetics of the border. Claiming that aesthetic images of borders and borderscapes are central to the political negotiation of borders, the volume addresses issues such as encounters with borders in material and digital spaces, migration, and border-crossings.The contributions explore narrative and images in literary and media texts, documentaries, and border art, as well as borderland identities, migration, and trauma in geographical contexts including Northern Europe, the Mediterranean, Mexican-US borderlands, and Chinese borderlands.Save to LibraryDownloadby Johan Schimanski•  20  Border Studies, Intermediality, Word and Image Studies, MigrationWhen I Wear My Alligator Boots: Narco-Culture in the U.S. Mexico Borderlands"When I Wear My Alligator Boots examines how the lives of dispossessed men and women are affected by the rise of narcotrafficking along the U.S.-Mexico border. In particular, the book explores a crucial tension at the heart of the “war on... more"When I Wear My Alligator Boots examines how the lives of dispossessed men and women are affected by the rise of narcotrafficking along the U.S.-Mexico border. In particular, the book explores a crucial tension at the heart of the “war on drugs”: despite the violence and suffering brought on by drug cartels, for the rural poor in Mexico’s north, narcotrafficking offers one of the few paths to upward mobility and is a powerful source of cultural meanings and local prestige. In the borderlands, traces of the drug trade are everywhere: from gang violence in cities to drug addiction in rural villages, from the vibrant folklore popularized in the narco-corridos of Norteña music to the icon of Jesús Malverde, the “patron saint” of narcos, tucked beneath the shirts of local people. In When I Wear My Alligator Boots, the author explores the everyday reality of the drug trade by living alongside its low-level workers, who live at the edges of the violence generated by the militarization of the war on drugs. Rather than telling the story of the powerful cartel leaders, the book focuses on the women who occasionally make their sandwiches, the low-level businessmen who launder their money, the addicts who consume their products, the mules who carry their money and drugs across borders, and the men and women who serve out prison sentences when their bosses' operations go awry."Save to LibraryDownloadby Shaylih Ryan Muehlmann•  88  Cultural Studies, Human Geography, Cultural Geography, Anthropology“Violence Continuum”: Border Crossings, Deaths and Time in the Island of LesvosSince the 1990s, Greece generally, and Lesvos island specifically, have been important gates for unauthorised border crossers who are fleeing violence, conflicts, wars and persecution. Since then, bodies of dead people have washed ashore... moreSince the 1990s, Greece generally, and Lesvos island specifically, have been important gates for unauthorised border crossers who are fleeing violence, conflicts, wars and persecution. Since then, bodies of dead people have washed ashore - in whole or in parts - at the threshold of Europe. Although represented as new, random, unforeseen, unpreventable events and “tragic” accidents border deaths are the outcome of lethal political decisions, which have been enforced since the 1985 Schengen Agreement, and have greatly proliferated in the aftermath of the 2015 refugee reception crisis. This chapter focuses on the continuum of politics of closed borders and the human consequences of the thanatopolitical border regime upon the lives which are apprehended “unlivable” (Butler, 2004). It explores the continuum of border violence and deaths, which occur off the coasts of Lesvos - while people cross the Aegean Sea - as well as inside the refugee camps on Lesvos. This chapter also addresses the temporal continuum of violence and the state and policy facilitated stealing of border crossers’ time. It explores stealing time as a form of institutional and structural violence which is inflicted upon the living, the dead and whole communities by producing multiple forms of harm and/or new types of harm.Save to Libraryby Evgenia Iliadou•  6  Border Crossing, Anthropology of Borders, Temporality, Structural ViolencePlace-making, Politics and Borderscapes in Southeastern EuropeWith: Thomas M. Wilson This article introduces a collection of case studies on the politics of borders and the place-making processes in Southeast European border environments. It opens with explorations of how the social analysis of... moreWith: Thomas M. WilsonThis article introduces a collection of case studies on the politics of borders and the place-making processes in Southeast European border environments. It opens with explorations of how the social analysis of borders oscillates between border studies and border theory, and between the study of borders as things and as ideas. The focus on the territoriality of borders, analyzed as dynamic social-spatial formations, is proposed as a meeting point between the two approaches. On this premise, this article examines some key elements in contemporary ethnographic research on borders in Southeastern Europe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Davide N. Carnevale•  20  Political Geography and Geopolitics, Social Geography, Eastern European Studies, AnthropologyDie deutsch-polnische Kooperation am Beispiel des TransOderana EVTZ i.Gr.The research article explores actors, institutions and political strategies in the German-Polish border region and examines forms of cross-border governance and institutionalization of functional cross-border cooperation on the basis of... moreThe research article explores actors, institutions and political strategies in the German-Polish border region and examines forms of cross-border governance and institutionalization of functional cross-border cooperation on the basis of the TransOderana EGTC case study. For the analysis the theoretical models of multilevel governance and actor-centered institutionalism will be applied. The main objectives of the article are: 1. To give an overview about the territorial cooperation (actors, strategies, institutions), 2. To draw the inter- and intrainstitutional foundation process of an EGTC in practice and to reveal governance structures in the EU multilevel polity within this process and 3. To highlight and critically assess the opportunities and barriers of the EGTC foundation process.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Ulrich•  28  European Studies, Border Studies, Cross-border cooperation, Regionalism2018, "COMING OF AGE. CROSSING THE JEUNESSE KANAK BOUNDARIES" ESfO Conference - CambridgeKanak youth (“Jeunesse Kanak”) today are constantly targeted by segregation measures, resulting in their social, physical and political marginalization. They are also the focus for a range of rhetorical discourses that create a degrading... moreKanak youth (“Jeunesse Kanak”) today are constantly targeted by segregation measures, resulting in their social, physical and political marginalization. They are also the focus for a range of rhetorical discourses that create a degrading image of indigenous youth through constant associations with alcohol and drug abuse, illegal acts, scholastic failure and the loss of culture. The stereotypes generated by these different representations are embedded in the local depiction of Kanak youth. “Jeunesse Kanak”, as it has been shaped by public debate, is no longer perceived as a group based on age, but as a racial, social and gender category and it is subject to strong moral judgements. Coming of age for young Kanak, means dealing with the inequalities created by these imposed boundaries. Overcoming the barrier of “youth” signifies moving from a culturally imposed status to a new imaginary category, which is the result of negotiations between external representations and the agency of Kanak youth themselves. Within this context, what does “becoming adult” mean? What does this crossing require in terms of work on one’s personal habitus? How do young Kanak cope with these degrading representations? Which elements and compromises do they employ to face them? This paper aims to answer these questions drawing from ethnographic fieldwork among the young people of a tribe in the northern region of Grande Terre.Save to LibraryDownloadby Matteo Gallo•  5  Youth Culture, Border Crossing, New Caledonia, Cultural AnthropologyArtificial Intelligence in Higher Education: Challenges and OpportunitiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Susan Akinwalere•  2  Psychology, Border CrossingINFRASTRUKTURA DHE KALIMI EFIKAS NËPËR PIKAT KUFITARE:  Maqedoni-Shqipëri, Kosovë, SërbiInfrastruktura dhe kalimi efikas nëpër pikat kufitare Maqedoni-Shqipri,Kosovë-Sërbi.Pikat kufitare Tabanovcë në mes shteteve në nivel ndërkombëtarë,rajonal,korridoret M-75 koridori-10 dhe E-65 koridori 8.Infrastruktura e objekteve të... moreInfrastruktura dhe kalimi efikas nëpër pikat kufitare  Maqedoni-Shqipri,Kosovë-Sërbi.Pikat kufitare Tabanovcë në mes shteteve në nivel ndërkombëtarë,rajonal,korridoret M-75 koridori-10 dhe E-65 koridori 8.Infrastruktura e objekteve të ndërtuara për kryerjen e shërbimeve doganore,administrative,primare,sekondare.Infrastruktura rrugore krosite,kapacitetet,sinjaliteti. Pika kufitare Bllacë E-65 e cila lidhë bregdetin Adriatikut,Malin e zi,Kosovën,në Shkup lidhet me korridorin 10 dhe 8.Pika kufitare Jazhincë- me motivet bukura natyroreSharri,flora,pauna,vegjetacione,biodeversiteti lidhë Tetovën-Pollogin me Ferizajin dhe Prishtinen. Kufiri Maqedono Shqiptar – Qafthana,korridori 8 Durrës (Shqipëri),Qafthan (Strugë)-Shkup,Ohër,Resnjë,Manastir dhe pastaj lidhet me magjistralen E-75 me korridorin 10. Via Egnatia,Durrës ,Ohër,Manastir dhe Selanik,Infrastruktura,karakteri ndër shtetërorë.Pika kufitare Shën Naum – Qyteti Ohërit nga Maqedonia dhe Pogradeci nga Shqipëria, Ohër-Shën Naum-Pogradec. Pika kufitare Stenjë ndodhet larg Resnjes 10 km ndodhet tek lokaliteti turistik Otoshevë dhe pushimores Dogana-Stenjë ka karakter lokal ndër kufitar me kushtin malor klimatik. Infrastructure and efficient transition  through the border point  in Macedonia- Albania ,Kosovo-Serbia. The border points Tabanovce between states in international level,corridors M-75 Corridor-10 and E-65 Corridor 8 regional.The infrastructure of the constructed objects,  perform customs administration, primary, secondary services.The road infrastructure, capacity,signality.                                                   The border point Blace E-65, which connects the  Adriatic coast, Montenegro, Kosovo, in Skopje connects with corridor 8 and 10.The border point Jazince – with beautiful natural motifs,Sharr mountain flora, fauna, vegetation,the biodiversity connect the Tetova city with Pristina and Ferizaj.The Macedonian Albanian border - Kafasan, Corridor 8,Drac (Albania), (Struga)-Skopje, Ohrid, Resen, Bitola and then connects to the highway E-75 with corridor 10. Via Egnatia—Drac,Ohrid,Bitola and  Infrastructure, the character of the state.The border point St. Naum – Ohrid City in Macedonia and Pogradec in Albania, Ohrid- St. Naum- Pogradec. The border point Stenje is located 10 km away from Resen and it is locate in the tourist locality Otosevo and the resort in Stenje have local character with cross-border mountain climate condition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Geo - See•  4  Cross-border cooperation, Transportation, Border Crossing, InfrastructureThe Airport and the territory: Cross-border flows in the Singapore-Johor-Riau tri-national regionSave to LibraryDownloadby Anna  Gasco•  7  Southeast Asian Studies, Architecture, Cross-border cooperation, Urban PlanningChildhood and BordersTesar, M. (2015). Childhood and Borders. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. Available at http://www.oxfordbibliographies.com/obo/page/childhood-studies. DOI: 10.1093/OBO/9780199791231-0154 Childhoods and borders are contested... moreTesar, M. (2015). Childhood and Borders. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. Available at http://www.oxfordbibliographies.com/obo/page/childhood-studies. DOI: 10.1093/OBO/9780199791231-0154 Childhoods and borders are contested categories and spaces. Following the tradition of childhood studies, this article utilizes a wide range of theoretical perspectives on these concerns. The subject of childhood and borders continues to be an underresearched area of study, spanning from notions of global childhoods to localized experiences, and geographical, sociological, anthropological, and philosophical perspectives on childhood and borders. In this article, borders and borderlands and acts of crossing them are argued in both a real and a metaphorical sense. Childhoods are exposed to and experience many types of borders and borderlands, including both real and imaginary experiences. This article addresses these complexities and perspectives. This article contributes to the paradigm shift in research concerning children and childhoods that allows the resurfacing and elevation of traditionally subjugated knowledges and stories. Moreover, forthcoming publications both theorize and tell the narratives of childhood crossing/living/being over/in/with borders and border spaces. This article should therefore be treated as a live commentary that will be regularly updated as new knowledge, ideas, research, and narratives emerge. Children’s voice, participation, experience, and resistance are particularly seminal in this context. This article juxtaposes such influential and seminal sources with texts that may seem more obscure, yet that are important to contextualize issues in local settings with global practices, and to present the breadth and richness of the scope of childhood studies. By exploring borders, boundaries, and borderlands, this article leads also to notions of space, place, and power, and further into constructs of foreigners and strangers, and anthropological, sociological, and philosophical perspectives on childhoods. As borders and borderlands change and evolve in a geographical sense, so do the ideas and notions around them. Borders and borderlands can therefore also be seen as metaphorical, and present a fascinating view of children’s lives and experiences of their childhoods. This article of “Childhood and Borders” thus draws on diverse disciplines to examine notions of borders, boundaries, borderlands, and crossings from actual, real, and metaphorical imagined perspectives. What unites the disciplinary diversity in this article is the focus on the child and childhoods through a childhood studies lens, and the various manifestations of it in relation to children, childhoods, and borders.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marek Tesar•  41  Philosophy, Education, Sociology of Children and Childhood, Teacher EducationA Magyar Honvédség feladatai, szerepének és helyzetének jogi aspektusai a tömeges migráció kapcsánA Magyarországra érkező migránsok számának drasztikus emelkedése miatt a kormány 2015. június 17-én döntött arról, hogy lezárja a zöldhatárt a magyar–szerb szakaszon, arra ösztönözve a bevándorlókat, hogy a legális belépési pontokat... moreA Magyarországra érkező migránsok számának drasztikus emelkedése miatt a kormány 2015. június 17-én döntött arról, hogy lezárja a zöldhatárt a magyar–szerb szakaszon, arra ösztönözve a bevándorlókat, hogy a legális belépési pontokat vegyék igénybe. A kormányhatározat megfogalmazása szerint az érintett szakaszon „körülbelül 175 km hosszúságban 4 méter magas határőrizeti célú ideiglenes kerítés” létesítését kellett előkészíteni. Az Országgyűlés 2015. július 6-án módosította az államhatárról szóló törvényt a határzárral kapcsolatban, közérdekű használati jogot adva a magyar államnak a schengeni külső határokon, a határvonaltól számított tízméteres sávon belül. A módosítás kimondja, hogy „Magyarország területének a Közösségi Kódex 2. cikk 2. pontjának megfelelő külső határ szerinti határvonaltól, illetve a határjeltől számított 10 méteres sávja az államhatár rendjének védelmét biztosító létesítmények építése, telepítése és üzemeltetése, valamint a honvédelmi, nemzetbiztonsági, katasztrófavédelmi, határőrizeti, menekültügyi és idegenrendészeti feladatok ellátása céljából e törvény szerint igénybe vehető.” Ezzel megteremtődtek a határzár telepítésének és fenntartásának jogi feltételei.Save to LibraryDownloadby József Padányi•  12  Border Crossing, Migration Studies, National Security, Contemporary MigrationsPainting as Performance: The Work of Cornelio CamposThe paintings of Cornelio Campos, a Mexican-American artist and resident of Durham, North Carolina (USA), whose art expresses the geopolitical and human implications of migration, immigration, and U.S. immigration policy, exercises a... moreThe paintings of Cornelio Campos, a Mexican-American artist and resident of Durham, North Carolina (USA), whose art expresses the geopolitical and human implications of migration, immigration, and U.S. immigration policy, exercises a particular kind of persuasive force when read through the lenses of authenticity and performance.  The combination of thematic and stylistic elements that he uses connect his political and his folkloric art.  At the same time, I argue, Campos’ aesthetic choices activate the network of positions that connect artist, artwork, and viewer in such a way that shifts the object of contemplation from the painting and onto the process of dialogue among artist, artwork, and spectator that that occurs during the act of contemplation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Shelley Garrigan•  11  Art, Border Studies, Border Crossing, US-Mexico Borderlands The Criminalization of Immigration: Contexts and Consequences"The Criminalization of Immigration: Contexts and Consequences explores these competing narratives and the consequences of criminalizing immigration in the United States and abroad. It examines the impact of national, state, and local... more"The Criminalization of Immigration: Contexts and Consequences explores these competing narratives and the consequences of criminalizing immigration in the United States and abroad. It examines the impact of national, state, and local legislation on the psychosocial well being of immigrants. The book explores key ways in which immigration is criminalized, and examines how the problematization of immigration becomes a political tool. The first chapters of the book explore the criminalization of immigration through the lens of pacification and the theater of cruelty. In both chapters, the authors seek to understand the process of “othering” members of the immigrant population to exact social control and to mollify the public. These front chapters set the tone for remainder of the book. They provide the impetus for why states have enacted, or have attempted to enact state level immigration laws that make it nearly impossible for the undocumented to live within the boundaries of these states. In section two, three U.S. states are highlighted: Arizona, Alabama, and Indiana. While the chapters on Arizona and Alabama summarize key aspects of state laws, author Sujey Vega highlights the life of one undocumented immigrant as she navigates life in the Heartland. The book then turns its focus to the criminalization of immigration in a socio-political context. Here, four chapters provide explorations of the criminalization of immigration on labor standards enforcement, immigrant detention, the right wing perspective in the United States and in Europe, and white supremacy. Labor standards impact the rate by which undocumented immigrants are paid, which in turn impacts their health and safety within and outside the workplace, protections from workplace discrimination, and collective activity protections. The criminalization of immigration erodes many of the workplace and labor protections that we have come to view as essential. Similarly, the privatization of corrections has influenced the incarceration and detention of many undocumented immigrants and has even influenced the very laws described in section two of this book. If not for the possibility of profiting off of the detention of the undocumented, many of immigration related laws would not have come to fruition.  The next section of the book provides a transnational and international context to the criminalization of immigration. With chapters focusing on human rights violations, the transnational dimensions of Mexican migration, the making of the Maras, and the criminalization of immigration in the United Kingdom, these chapters ask the reader to examine the criminalization of immigration from a broader perspective. The reader learns how national issues become international and, likewise how international immigration issues influence national policy.  The final chapters of the book put the human face on the criminalization of immigration. Each chapter represents a case study of a specific aspect of the criminalization of immigration. They approach the issue from the viewpoint of a day laborer, an undocumented woman who has become a victim of domestic violence, a child whose parents are undocumented, and a detention officer who wrestles with his decisions to continue his job. Regardless of which chapters one reads, the raw emotion felt by placing oneself in each context is overwhelming.  Overall, The Criminalization of Immigration: Contexts and Consequences provides a complete examination of an issue that cuts through emotional value conflicts. It provides the facts and knowledge essential for a fair and balanced debate"Save to LibraryDownloadby Rich Furman•  180  Critical Theory, History, Sociology, CriminologyÇalışma Mekanı Olarak Ev: Küresel Salgın Dönemi'nde Yaşam Denge Algısının DışavurumuKüresel salgın döneminde yeni çalışma mekanı olarak &quot;ev&quot;e nasıl ve ne ölçüde uyum sağlandığı, iş ve iş dışı yaşam dengesinin nasıl deneyimlendiği bu araştırmanın temel sorularıdır. Fiziksel ve sosyal çevreden etkilenen ve aynı... moreKüresel salgın döneminde yeni çalışma mekanı olarak &quot;ev&quot;e nasıl ve ne ölçüde uyum sağlandığı, iş ve iş dışı yaşam dengesinin nasıl deneyimlendiği bu araştırmanın temel sorularıdır. Fiziksel ve sosyal çevreden etkilenen ve aynı zamanda psikolojik çevreye ilişkin algılarımızı da etkileyen &quot;bireysel yaşam alanları&quot; olarak çalışma mekanlarının, sağlığımız ve esenliğimiz üzerindeki etkileri son yıllarda üzerinde durulan konular arasında yer almaktadır. Pandemi ile birlikte; uzaktan çalışma, özellikle ofis çalışanları için dünya çapında bir tür norm haline gelmiştir. Evde çalışmaya geçilmesi ile birlikte, çalışma ile ofis alanları arasındaki çizgiler ve mesafeler giderek bulanıklaşmaya başlamıştır. Bu geçişin bir sonucu olarak, evde özel bir alan yaratmak önemli bir hal almıştır. Çalışmamız, çok disiplinli bir konu olan &quot;çalışma mekanı olarak ev&quot;i, birey ve çevre ilişkisi bağlamında ele almaktadır. Bunun için de bir sosyal ağ platformu üzerinden, evden çalışm...Save to LibraryDownloadby Ayça Ünsever•  8  Environmental Psychology, Border Crossing, Work Life Balance, Work At Home JobsThe Shadow of the Wall: Violence and Migration on the US-Mexico BorderMass deportation is at the forefront of political discourse in the United States. The Shadow of the Wall shows in tangible ways the migration experiences of hundreds of people, including their encounters with U.S. Border Patrol, cartels ,... moreMass deportation is at the forefront of political discourse in the United States. The Shadow of the Wall shows in tangible ways the migration experiences of hundreds of people, including their encounters with U.S. Border Patrol, cartels , detention facilities, and the deportation process. Deportees reveal in their heartwrenching stories the power of family separation and reunification and the cost of criminalization, and they call into question assumptions about human rights and federal policies. The authors analyze data from the Migrant Border Crossing Study (MBCS), a mixed-methods, binational research project that offers socially relevant, rigorous social science about migration, immigration enforcement, and violence on the border. Using information gathered from more than 1,600 post-deportation surveys, this volume examines the different faces of violence and migration along the Arizona-Sonora border and shows that deportees are highly connected to the United States and will stop at nothing to return to their families. The Shadow of the Wall underscores the unintended social consequences of increased border enforcement, immigrant criminalization, and deportation along the U.S.-Mexico border.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel E Martínez and +4Jeremy SlackScott  WhitefordJosiah HeymanMurphy Woodhouse•  15  Sociology, Criminology, Geography, Latino/A Studies1.5 从月港到安海：泛海寇秩序与西荷冲突背景下的港口转移 “From Yuegang to Anhai: Port Transfer in the Context of Pan-Piracy Order and Spanish-Dutch Conflict, 1550-1650,” Global History Review 全球史评论 12 (2017): 86-126This paper examines the port transfer process from the 1560s to the 1680s in the context of the regional history of southeast coastal China, southern and northeastern Taiwan, and the northern Philippines. According to the official... moreThis paper examines the port transfer process from the 1560s to the 1680s in the context of the regional history of southeast coastal China, southern and northeastern Taiwan, and the northern Philippines. According to the official Chinese, Spanish, and Dutch archives and other non-systematical sources, I reveal that the major trading port on the coast of Fujian shifted from Yuegang to Anhai during those 120 years. I then further argue that the transfer occurred in a pan-piracy order, a system in which economic exchange was dominated by piracy, and was accelerated by the Spanish-Dutch conflict, framing a longue durée (long-term historical structures over events) analysis of the cross-border studies of three research paradigms: history of the Ming-Qing transition and the Southern Ming, history of Sino-Western relations, and Socio-economic studies. From the perspective of longue durée analysis, this port-transfer case shows us mechanisms of historical change under the daily order rather than the immediate causal factors, and how the regional historical study significantly reveals larger structural characteristics. Key Words: Pirate; Yuegang; Anhai; OrderSave to LibraryDownloadby Boyi Chen (陈博翼)•  40  Southeast Asian Studies, Early Modern History, Chinese Studies, Border StudiesThe Unbearable Whiteness of the Polish Plumber and the Hungarian Peacock Dance around " Race "This contribution interprets the east-central European post-liberal governments’ recent anti-immigrant, anti-refugee and anti-human-rights hysteria in the context of the increasing dependence of the region’s societies for livelihood on... moreThis contribution interprets the east-central European post-liberal governments’recent anti-immigrant, anti-refugee and anti-human-rights hysteria in the context of the increasing dependence of the region’s societies for livelihood on employment in the western EU, the widespread racialization of east European labor in the western EU, and the refusal of east European political elites and societies at large to consider possible “Left” critiques of the EU. Given those circumstances, and laboring under related anxieties, post-state-socialist political elites and societies have assumed a fundamentalist-racialist posture. They redirect their repressed anger toward incoming refugees, claim an ahistorical, essential kind of Whiteness and contribute to rigidifying European discussions of “race.” To access the article, please follow the link to the publisher https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/slavic-review/article/unbearable-whiteness-of-the-polish-plumber-and-the-hungarian-peacock-dance-around-race/59244B15CB295020E51DF252BDA76604.  If the above link does not work, please look up Slavic Review in your own institution's library website and download the paper from there.  If that fails, please contact the authors at jborocz@rutgers.edu or jborocz@gmail.com or msarkar@binghamton.edu and they will be happy to provide a copy. Sorry for the inconvenience.Save to LibraryDownloadby József Böröcz•  168  Discourse Analysis, European History, Sociology, Political SociologyDie Römische Inquisition und die Mischehen in Deutschland (16.-18. Jahrhundert), in: Albrecht Burkardt, Gerd Schwerhoff (ed.) Tribunal der Barbaren? Deutschland und die Inquisition in der Frühen Neuzeit (Konstanz: UVK, 2012): 277-306.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cecilia Cristellon•  170  Religion, Comparative Religion, History, European HistoryUncovering the ‘Virginity Testing’ Controversy in the National Archives: The Intersectionality of Discrimination in British Immigration HistoryThis article explores the practice of ‘virginity testing’ by British immigration officers in the late 1970s through the internal documents of the Home Office held at the National Archives in London. By analysing these documents, we argue... moreThis article explores the practice of ‘virginity testing’ by British immigration officers in the late 1970s through the internal documents of the Home Office held at the National Archives in London. By analysing these documents, we argue that the ‘virginity testing’ controversy demonstrates the intersectionality of discrimination faced by migrant women from the Indian subcontinent attempting to enter Britain in the 1970s. Previous discussions of the practice have focused on either the dimension of ‘race’ or gender as the determining factor behind this invasive procedure, but this article shows that both dimensions are of equal importance in explaining why immigration officers undertook ‘testing’ for virginity during border control investigations. The emphasis within the immigration control system on preventing ‘bogus’ migration informed how immigration officers processed potential migrants and this framework of suspicion allowed the practice of ‘virginity testing’ to occur.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marinella Marmo and +1Evan Smith•  92  Critical Theory, History, Modern History, Criminology« Nous sommes des battantes. » Expériences de femmes d’Afrique centrale et de l’Ouest à la frontière maroco-espagnoleThis contribution analyses the experiences of women from Central and West Africa seeking to cross the Moroccan-Spanish border. Exploring embodied narratives collected in the field between 2015 and 2017 and based on the sociology of... moreThis contribution analyses the experiences of women from Central and West Africa seeking to cross the Moroccan-Spanish border. Exploring embodied narratives collected in the field between 2015 and 2017 and based on the sociology of migration and gender relations, the article looks at both the power and domination relations that weigh on these illegalized women and their modes of agency and resistance. Paying attention to their experiences enables us to understand the plurality of the instances and processes of production of their vulnerabilities at the border; on the other hand, their narratives provide information on situations where women, despite the violence, perform their power to act, for themselves but also sometimes to support other women. The research shows the coexistence of different strategies to turn their real or supposed vulnerabilities into tools for trying to cross the border.//Cette contribution analyse les expériences de femmes d’Afrique centrale et de l’Ouest en quête de passage de la frontière maroco-espagnole. Explorant des récits incarnés récoltés sur le terrain entre 2015 et 2017 et s’appuyant sur la sociologie des migrations et des rapports sociaux de sexe, l’article se penche à la fois sur les rapports de pouvoir et de domination qui pèsent sur ces femmes illégalisées et sur leurs modes d’agentivité, leurs résistances. Porter attention à leurs expériences permet d’une part de comprendre la pluralité des instances et processus de production de leurs vulnérabilités à la frontière ; d’autre part, leurs récits renseignent sur des situations où les femmes, malgré les violences, performent leur puissance d’agir, pour elles-mêmes mais aussi parfois pour soutenir d’autres femmes. L’enquête montre la coexistence de différentes stratégies pour faire de leurs vulnérabilités réelles ou supposées des outils pour tenter de passer la frontière.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elsa Tyszler•  10  Gender Studies, Women's Studies, Border Studies, Resistance (Social)Rethinking generational categories at the border for Latino immigrantsIn studies of immigration, generation is typically considered a static categorical system. I argue, however, that generation is a fluid construct and must be understood as place-based. Drawing on fieldwork conducted among Latino/as along... moreIn studies of immigration, generation is typically considereda static categorical system. I argue, however, that generation is a fluid construct and must be understood as place-based. Drawing on fieldwork conducted among Latino/as along the Texas–Mexico border, I seek to explore what current framings of generation leave out. Many in Laredo, Texas, see this border as allowing or preventing movement; these perceptionsimpact the constructions of generational categories. Cross-border travel, conceptualizations of place and immigration, and mixed-generational unions shape immigrant experiences, and in turn, affect concepts of generation. I conclude by offering ideas and inviting discussion on how the concept of generation can be re-worked to move beyond blunt categories and be re-conceptualized from the perspective of immigrants.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tina Catania•  24  Latino/A Studies, Self and Identity, Social Identity, Border StudiesPasseurs: Narratives of Border Crossing in the Western AlpsThis article focuses on representations of passeurs: migrant smugglers across the French-Italian and Swiss-Italian borders. I analyze a heterogeneous corpus of novels, films, and essays published between 1990-2017 that refer to different... moreThis article focuses on representations of passeurs: migrant smugglers across the French-Italian and Swiss-Italian borders. I analyze a heterogeneous corpus of novels, films, and essays published between 1990-2017 that refer to different waves of migration, from World War II to the contemporary migration crisis. I argue that these texts complicate and help question the current criminalization of migrant smugglers most often found in the media and political discourses. In particular, I claim that these discourses confuse or dismiss migrants’ experience of border crossing, as they neglect important ethical and legal differences between smuggling and trafficking, humanitarian actors and professional smugglers. The texts I analyze insist on these nuances, enriching our understanding of the human stakes of “illegal” migrations. Through the analysis of literature and film, I present figures of migrant smugglers who have operated illegally to facilitate migrants, but who must not be confused with human traffickers. For example, in his bio-fiction Il vuoto alle spalle (1999), journalist Marco A. Ferrari gives an uplifting, idealized portrayal of Ettore Castiglioni, an Anti-Fascist Alpinist active during World War II, who smuggled Italian Jews and political opponents to the Fascist regime to Switzerland, including the second President of the Italian Republic, Luigi Einaudi. Francesco Biamonti, who lived at the French-Italian border and was a prolific novelist in the 1980s and 1990s, insists on the professionalism of smugglers who have been traditionally present in the Western Alps. In particular, Biamonti stresses that good passeurs are those who never put the life of their clients (migrants) at risk. Novels such as Vento largo (1991) and Le parole la notte (1994) not only point at the negative effects of globalization in Liguria (Italy), but also lament Europeans’ lack of attention to and understanding of increasing migratory flows, well before the media started talking about a migrant “crisis.” Lastly, I present the work of journalists who occasionally performed the role of “humanitarian smugglers” and later reported their experience in written or cinematic form: Io sto con la sposa, by Gabriele del Grande, Khaled Soliman Al Nassiry, and Antonio Augugliaro (2014); Passeur by Raphaël Krafft (2017). These works express the authors’ need to reconnect with the professional and anti-Fascist tradition of passeurs in the Western Alps, at a time when there is no alternative to “illegal” border crossing for too many migrants.Save to LibraryDownloadby Federica Di Blasio•  4  French Studies, Italian Studies, Border Crossing, Migration StudiesCounter-Memorial Aesthetics:  Refugee Histories and the Politics of Contemporary  Artprologue, intro and afterword of book Publication date: October 20, 2016 Abstract: Restrictive border protection policies directed toward managing the flow of refugees coming into neoliberal democracies (and out of failing nation-states)... moreprologue, intro and afterword of bookPublication date: October 20, 2016Abstract: Restrictive border protection policies directed toward managing the flow of refugees coming into neoliberal democracies (and out of failing nation-states) are a defining feature of contemporary politics. In this book, Verónica Tello analyses how contemporary artists--such as Tania Bruguera, Isaac Julien, Rosemary Laing, Dierk Schmidt, Hito Steyerl, Lyndell Brown and Charles Green--negotiate their diverse subject positions while addressing and taking part in the production of images associated with refugee experiences and histories. Tello argues that their practices, which manifest across a range of contexts including Cuba, the United States, Australia and Europe, represent an emergent, global paradigm of contemporary art, 'counter-memorial aesthetics'.Counter-memorial aesthetics, Tello argues, is characterized by its conjunction of heterogeneous signifiers and voices of many times and places, generating an experimental, non-teleological approach to the construction of contemporary history, which also takes into account the complex, disorienting spatial affects of globalization. Spanning performance art, experimental 'history painting', aftermath photography and video installation, counter-memorial aesthetics bring to the fore, Tello argues, how contemporary refugee flows and related traumatic events critically challenge and conflict with many existing, tired if not also stubborn notions of national identity, borders, history and memory. Building on the writings of such thinkers as Michel Foucault and Jacques Rancière, this book offers a useful concept of 'counter-memory' for the twenty-first century. It shows how counter-memorial aesthetics is not only central to the nexus of contemporary art and refugee histories but also how it can offer a way of being critically present with many other, often interrelated, global crises in the contemporary era.http://bloomsbury.com/us/counter-memorial-aesthetics-9781474252737/Save to LibraryDownloadby Verónica Tello•  192  Cultural History, Cultural Studies, Future Studies, Visual SociologyGoverning Immigration Through CrimeIn the United States, immigration is generally seen as a law and order issue. Amidst increasing anti-immigrant sentiment, unauthorized migrants have been cast as lawbreakers. Governing Immigration Through Crime offers a comprehensive and... moreIn the United States, immigration is generally seen as a law and order issue. Amidst increasing anti-immigrant sentiment, unauthorized migrants have been cast as lawbreakers. Governing Immigration Through Crime offers a comprehensive and accessible introduction to the use of crime and punishment to manage undocumented immigrants. Presenting key readings and cutting-edge scholarship, this volume examines a range of contemporary criminalizing practices: restrictive immigration laws, enhanced border policing, workplace audits, detention and deportation, and increased policing of immigration at the state and local level. Of equal importance, the readings highlight how migrants have managed to actively resist these punitive practices. In bringing together critical theorists of immigration to understand how the current political landscape propagates the view of the "illegal alien" as a threat to social order, this text encourages students and general readers alike to think seriously about the place of undocumented immigrants in American society.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julie A. Dowling•  43  Sociology, Criminology, Political Sociology, Human GeographyRace, Blood, and Belonging: Transnational Blackfoot Bands and Families along the U.S. – Canada Border, 1855-1915This chapter focuses on the Blackfoot Confederacy, which spanned much of the present-day Montana-Alberta borderlands through the late 19th century. By the beginning of the 20th century, the Niitsitapi faced the rapid colonization of their... moreThis chapter focuses on the Blackfoot Confederacy, which spanned much of the present-day Montana-Alberta borderlands through the late 19th century. By the beginning of the 20th century, the Niitsitapi faced the rapid colonization of their lands in the form of Anglo settlement, transcontinental railways, the U.S.-Canada Boundary Commission, the military, agents of the state, and the legacy of broken treaties. The hardening of the border that accompanied these developments did not, however, terminate the cross border movement of Blackfoot bands. Families visited each other across the line, band members registered on tribal rolls in the U.S. and Canada, and Indian agents fulminated against Blackfoot manipulation of fluid yet contradictory notions of status, blood, and citizenship.Looking at the Blackfoot Confederacy contributes to scholarship investigating Indigenous peoples’ negotiation of international boundaries bisecting aboriginal homelands. This growing body of work has emphasized the social and cultural dimensions of these histories, but there remains room to explore the legal implications of overlapping state, territorial and national jurisdictions; and the confusion resulting from Canadian and American treaties made with Native people throughout the borderlands. A critical legal perspective is especially important for Native peoples straddling the international boundaries and confronting reservation borders. As observed by Dudziak and Volpp, “Law is an important technology in the drawing of dividing lines between American identities and the boundaries (or lack of boundaries) around American global power. Borders are constructed in law, not only through formal legal controls on entry and exit but also through the construction of rights of citizenship and noncitizenship, and the regulation or legitimation of American power in other parts of the world.” Because these boundaries are constructs of law, they are crucial sights of deconstruction.Borrowing from such insights, this chapter will focus on Blackfoot bands and families that negotiated the legal contradictions and jurisdictional complexities of life as transnational actors in the U.S – Canada borderlands. Between 1855, with the signing of the Blackfoot Treaty in the U.S., the signing of Treaty 7 in Canada in 1877, and the onset of World War One, Blackfoot bands confronted numerous international, national, territorial, provincial, and tribal legal regimes. At the borderlands of two imperial nation-states, Blackfoot bands encountered “legal voids” between competing notions of Indigenous sovereignty, wardship, and national citizenship. These voids and contradictions stem largely from the colonial nature of “Indian Law” as a combination of erasure and extermination on the one hand, and racial assimilation and transformation on the other. 4 South of the “Medicine Line,” Blackfoot people saw their status deteriorate as courts redefined them as wards of the state that lacked legal personhood and the protections of the Constitution. North of the line, Canada promoted assimilation and tried to extinguish Native land title. These related Indian policies signaled the settler-colonial mindset of Canadian and U.S. officials, but implementation at the edge of the U.S. and Canadian Dominion exposed fractures legal through which Niitsitapi survived a changing world.Save to LibraryDownloadby CIBS  UTEP•  21  Border Studies, Critical Legal Theory, Border Crossing, Indigenous Peoples RightsMediterraneo nero. Le rotte dei migranti nel millennio globaleSave to LibraryDownloadby Alessandra Di Maio•  38  Black Studies Or African American Studies, African Studies, European Studies, GlobalizationOverpowering the law enforcing agency and human rights challengesThis research seeks to explore and understand the extent of human rights is violated by an elite force in Bangladesh. The constitutional right to life should not be derogated or suspended, and no person should be stripped of his or her... moreThis research seeks to explore and understand the extent of human rights is violated by an elite force in Bangladesh. The constitutional right to life should not be derogated or suspended, and no person should be stripped of his or her basic human rights. (Number) of victims and human rights activists were recruited via snowball sampling and in-depth interviews were conducted. Secondary data was obtained via daily newspapers, magazines and bulletins published by various human rights organizations in Bangladesh. This is due to the elite force ignoring the existing constitutional guarantee of the right to life. The participants views were that the government has to ensure human rights are maintained. It should limit the jurisdiction of the elite force and conform to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.Save to LibraryDownloadby Akm Ullah•  2  Human Rights, Border CrossingIlligal Cross-border Migration in South AsiaCross-border migration, legal or illegal, in South Asia is a much older phenomenon. Prior to 1947, migration from and within South Asia was rooted in British colonial expansion and labour requirements across its colonies. Therefore, one... moreCross-border migration, legal or illegal, in South Asia is a much olderphenomenon. Prior to 1947, migration from and within South Asia wasrooted in British colonial expansion and labour requirements across itscolonies. Therefore, one can find cross-border cross-cultural ethnic presence in every nook and corner of the region. However, the recent discourse on cross-border migration in the region is burdened with fears – casting negative impact on regional cohesion, peace and stability.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sitakanta Mishra•  5  South Asian Studies, Border Crossing, Migration Studies, Illegal MigrationLa Frontera / BorderlandsSave to LibraryDownloadby Amy  Ebersole•  9  Border Studies, Cultural Theory, Chicano (Mexican-American) Film Studies, Border Crossing"Thick institutionalism versus lean integration: 'new' regionalism in Africa" in  Candice Moore, ed., Regional Integration and Social Cohesion, Bruxelles, Berlin, ...Peter Lang)Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel C . Bach•  5  European integration, Cross-border cooperation, Regionalism, Border CrossingPerpetual borders: German-Polish cross-border contacts in the Szczecin areaSave to LibraryDownloadby Péter Balogh•  9  Border Studies, Cross-border cooperation, Border Crossing, Borderlands StudiesHeyman, Josiah McC. “Culture Theory and the US–Mexico Border" (download available)This synthetic chapter addresses the process and character of border culture. It begins with a literature review of border culture theory (e.g., hybridities) and its critics. It proposes that elements of both approaches are correct,... moreThis synthetic chapter addresses the process and character of border culture.  It begins with a literature review of border culture theory (e.g., hybridities) and its critics.  It proposes that elements of both approaches are correct, because they are emergent cultural outcomes of historical structural processes at borders.  It argues that at the U.S.-Mexico border there are three interacting processes, cultural polarizing processes, cultural hybridizing processes, and combined and uneven relations.  The latter are particular important but often unrecognized, because they produce a cultural field of differentiated and socially unequal but also interactive and related elements.  The chapter concludes by arguing that analysis of border cultures adds to the study of cultures seen from a social-relational point of view, in which cultural is an emergent performance within unequal social fields and interactions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Josiah Heyman•  17  Latino/A Studies, Border Studies, Social and Cultural Anthropology, Border CrossingYlirajaiset merkit. Pajtim Statovcin Kissani Jugoslavia. Teoksessa Jussi Ojajärvi & Nina Työlahti (toim.) Maamme romaani. Esseitä kirjallisuuden vuosikymmenistä. Nykykulttuuri, Jyväskylä, 275–289.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hanna-Leena Nissilä•  7  Literature, Transnationalism, Space and Place, Border CrossingPainting, Poetry and the Interference of the Genres in English Art: The Case of William BlakeThroughout the history of Western culture and art, there are numerous examples of those who, in their creativity, went beyond the limits of a particular art, embarking instead on attempts to combine in one artistic discourse the practices... moreThroughout the history of Western culture and art, there are numerous examples of those who, in their creativity, went beyond the limits of a particular art, embarking instead on attempts to combine in one artistic discourse the practices of various arts, such as music and poetic text, drama and dance, literature and sculpture, literature and painting, and so on. One of these artists is William Blake, acclaimed as a major poet and painter of romanticism in English and world art. He is accredited as the founder of a whole new and original method of producing artistic works, called “illuminated printing”, which is a remarkable combination of poetic text, decoration, and picture. Apart from revealing Blake’s appurtenance to romantic tradition, the present study aims to present the specificity of his technique and, primary, to disclose the ways in which it combines the artistic practice of poetry with that of painting as to render and strengthen the meaning by mutually sustaining and il...Save to LibraryDownloadby Patricia Denisa Dita•Border CrossingL'Hospice de France et la frontière des Pyrénées, XIVe-XIXe siècle.pdfCette étude, sur la longue durée, depuis l’aménagement médiéval du col jusqu’à nos jours, est réalisée en prenant attentivement en compte le contexte de l’évolution d’une frontière entre Etats. Passage majeur de la haute chaîne des... moreCette étude, sur la longue durée, depuis l’aménagement médiéval du col jusqu’à nos jours, est réalisée en prenant attentivement en compte le contexte de l’évolution d’une frontière entre Etats. Passage majeur de la haute chaîne des Pyrénées centrales, le Port de Venasque est devenu un chemin touristique incontournable avec l’avènement du pyrénéisme, et n’a pas jamais l’objet d’un aménagement routier. Son histoire constitue, aussi, un observatoire privilégié des relations, souvent conflictuelles, entre communautés pastorales françaises et espagnoles. Les riches pâturages frontaliers qui l’entourent ont donné lieu à des combats entre bergers qui, malgré leurs accords de lies passeries - ou facerias -, renouvelés tous les ans pour maintenir la paix, ont cherché à jouer, pour leurs intérêts étroits, des guerres entre leurs souverains respectifs.   This long-term study, from the medieval development of the pass to the present day, was done with great attention of the evolution of a border between states. The Port of Venasque, a major passage in the central Pyrenees highlands, has become a must-see tourist route with the advent of Pyrénéisme, and has never been the subject of road development. Its history is also a privileged observatory of relations, often conflictual, between French and Spanish pastoral communities. The rich border pastures surrounding it have given rise to fighting between shepherds who, despite their agreements of the lies et passeries - or facerias - renewed every year to maintain peace, have sought to play, for their narrow interests, of the wars between their respective sovereigns.Save to LibraryDownloadby Serge  Brunet•  24  Military History, Tourism Studies, Medieval History, Early Modern HistoryTargeting Immigrants: Government, Technology, and EthicsGovernmentality, Immigration, illegality. This book frames the study of immigration within the Michel Foucault inspired theories of governmentality. Specifically, it focuses on the government of migrant illegality. It is concerned, on the... moreGovernmentality, Immigration, illegality. This book frames the study of immigration within the Michel Foucault inspired theories of governmentality. Specifically, it focuses on the government of migrant illegality. It is concerned, on the one hand, with the kinds of knowledge, the specific problematizations, and the various authorities that have constructed “illegal” immigrants as targets of government; and, on the other, with the specific tactics, techniques, and programs that have been deployed to manage this population. The book, in short, is concerned with how “illegal” immigrants have been problematized as objects of knowledge and governmental intervention.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jonathan Xavier Inda•  24  Political Sociology, Anthropology, Mobility/Mobilities, GovernmentSpecial Issue - Memory and PeripheryThis special issue addresses the possible connections and mutual benefits of examining together two analytic concepts – memory and periphery. These concepts receive much attention in various scholarly discussions, yet they have done so... moreThis special issue addresses the possible connections and mutual benefits of examining together two analytic concepts – memory and periphery. These concepts receive much attention in various scholarly discussions, yet they have done so rather independently from each other. The potential applications and utilities of combining memory and periphery and the epistemic insights they provide for various disciplins are presented in the different contributions to this issue.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kobi Kabalek•  705  Critical Theory, American Literature, Discourse Analysis, Comparative ReligionMigrant Smuggling Data and Research: A global review (THE AMERICAS)Globally, migrant smuggling receives a considerable amount of media, policy and public attention, but how much do we really know about it based on sound evidence? To what extent are data and research on migrant smuggling collected,... moreGlobally, migrant smuggling receives a considerable amount of media,policy and public attention, but how much do we really know about it based on sound evidence? To what extent are data and research on migrant smuggling collected, reported and undertaken throughout the world? In the project from which this report stems, we set out to answer these questions by working with researchers and analysts to review the current data and research on migrant smuggling globally.Save to LibraryDownloadby GE Sanchez•  32  Sociology, Cultural Studies, Criminology, GeographyNextLast »Related TopicsBorder StudiesFollowFollowingBorders and BorderlandsFollowFollowingBorderlands StudiesFollowFollowingBorder TheoryFollowFollowingBordersFollowFollowingAnthropology of BordersFollowFollowingBorders and FrontiersFollowFollowingCross-border cooperationFollowFollowingSecond Language EducationFollowFollowingMobility StudiesFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023