Bengali language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Ancient
1.2Early
1.3Medieval
1.4Modern
2Geographical distribution
Toggle Geographical distribution subsection
2.1Official status
3Dialects
4Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
4.1Stress
4.2Consonant clusters
5Writing system
Toggle Writing system subsection
5.1Alternative and historic scripts
5.2Orthographic depth
5.3Uses
5.4Number system
5.5Romanisation
6Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
6.1Word order
6.2Nouns
6.3Verbs
7Vocabulary
8Sample text
9See also
10Notes
11References
12Further reading
13External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Bengali language
167 languages
AcèhАдыгэбзэAfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛअंगिकाÆngliscالعربيةAragonésঅসমীয়াAsturianuअवधीAvañe'ẽАварAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBasa BaliবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीBikol CentralБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegБуряадCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaChiShonaCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschދިވެހިބަސްEestiΕλληνικάЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisGàidhligGalego贛語ગુજરાતી客家語/Hak-kâ-ngîХальмг한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoবিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরীBahasa IndonesiaИронIsiZuluÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡКъарачай-малкъарქართულიकॉशुर / کٲشُرҚазақшаKernowekKiswahiliКомиKongoKriyòl gwiyannenLatinaLatviešuЛезгиLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarमैथिलीМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMāoriमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟМонголမြန်မာဘာသာNāhuatlNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanଓଡ଼ିଆOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀपालिپنجابیپښتوPatoisPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаसंस्कृतम्ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsSesotho sa LeboaShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TarandíneТатарча / tatarçaతెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVahcuenghVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükWinaray吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語ZazakiŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikiquoteWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Bangla language)
Indo-Aryan language in Bengal region
"Bangla language" redirects here. Not to be confused with Bangala language.
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Bengali language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
BengaliBanglaবাংলাThe word "Bangla" in Bengali scriptPronunciation[ˈbaŋla] (listen)Native toBangladesh and IndiaRegionBengalEthnicityBengalisNative speakers300 million (2011–2021)[1][2]L2 speakers: 50 million[1]Language familyIndo-European
Indo-IranianIndo-AryanEasternBengali–AssameseBengaliEarly formsMagadhi Prakrit
Magadhan Apabhraṃśa
Abahattha
Old Bengali
Middle Bengali
Dialects
See Bengali dialects
Writing system
Bengali
Bengali Braille
See below for alternatively used and historic scripts
Signed formsBengali signed forms[3]Official statusOfficial language in
Bangladesh (national)
India
West Bengal
Tripura
Assam (Barak Valley)
Jharkhand (additional)[4]
Regulated byBangla Academy (in Bangladesh)Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi (in India)Language codesISO 639-1bnISO 639-2benISO 639-3benGlottologbeng1280Map of Bengali language in Bangladesh and India (district-wise). Darker shades imply a greater percentage of native speakers of Bengali in each district.Bengali-speaking diaspora Worldwide.This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Part of a series on
Constitutionally recognised languages of India
Category
22 Official Languages of the Indian Republic
Assamese
Bengali
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Hindi
Kannada
Kashmiri
Konkani
Maithili
Malayalam
Marathi
Meitei (Manipuri)
Nepali
Odia
Punjabi
Sanskrit
Santali
Sindhi
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
Related
Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of India
Official Languages Commission
Classical Languages of India
List of languages by number of native speakers in India
 Asia portal
 India portal
 Language portal
 Politics portal
This article contains Bengali text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols.
Part of a series onBengalis
Bengali history
Vanga Kingdom
Gangaridai
Gauda Kingdom
Pala Empire
Bengal Sultanate
Bengal Subah
Bengal Presidency
Partition of Bengal (1905)
Eastern Bengal and Assam
Partition of Bengal (1947)
East Bengal
East Pakistan
Names of Bengal
Bengali homeland
Bengal
Bangladesh
West Bengal
Tripura
Barak Valley
Assam
Bengali people
Social group:
Bangal
Ghotis
Diaspora
Religious community:
Muslims
Hindus
Buddhists
Christians
Bengali name
Subgroups:
Dhakaiyas
Sylhetis
Bengali culture
Bangaliana
Language
Dialects
Alphabet
Romanisation
Literature
Poetry
Science fiction
Novels
Folklore
Art
Music
Cinema
Bangladesh
West Bengal
Theatre
Weddings
Bengali Muslim wedding
Bengali Hindu wedding
Cuisine
Architecture
Bengal Temple
Calendar
Festivals
New Year
Spring
Monsoon
Harvest
Bengali symbols
Bangamata
Joy Bangla
Bengal tiger
Bengal cat
Bungalow
Bengal fire
Bengali Renaissance
Amar Sonar Bangla
National symbols of Bangladesh
Fish and rice
Ilish
Chingri malai curry
Rasgulla
Chomchom
Jamdani
Ganges
Suvarnabhumi
Bay of Bengal
Politics
United Bengal
Bengali nationalism
Bangabhumi
Greater Bangladesh
vte
Bengali (/bɛnˈɡɔːli/ ben-GAW-lee),[5][6] generally known by its endonym Bangla (বাংলা, Bengali pronunciation: [ˈbaŋla]), is an Indo-Aryan language native to the Bengal region of South Asia. With approximately 300 million native speakers and another 50 million as second language speakers,[1] Bengali is the sixth most spoken native language and the seventh most spoken language by the total number of speakers in the world.[7][8] Bengali is the fifth most spoken Indo-European language.
Bengali is the official, national, and most widely spoken language of Bangladesh,[9][10][11] with 98% of Bangladeshis using Bengali as their first language.[12][13] It is the second-most widely spoken of the 22 scheduled languages of India, and is the official language of the states of West Bengal and Tripura and the Barak Valley region of the state of Assam. It is also the second official language of the Indian state of Jharkhand since September 2011.[4] It is the most widely spoken language in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal,[14] and is spoken by significant populations in other states including Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha and Uttarakhand.[15] Bengali is also spoken by the Bengali diasporas (Bangladeshi diaspora and Indian Bengalis) in Europe, the United States, the Middle East and other countries.[16]
Bengali has developed over more than 1,300 years. Bengali literature, with its millennium-old literary history, was extensively developed during the Bengali Renaissance and is one of the most prolific and diverse literary traditions in Asia. The Bengali language movement from 1948 to 1956 demanding that Bengali be an official language of Pakistan fostered Bengali nationalism in East Bengal leading to the emergence of Bangladesh in 1971. In 1999, UNESCO recognized 21 February as International Mother Language Day in recognition of the language movement.[17][18]
History[edit]
Present-day distribution of Indo-European languages in Eurasia. Bengali is one of the easternmost languages
Indo- Iranian languages, Bengali marked yellow
The descent of proto-Gauda, the ancestor of the modern Bengali language, from the proto-Gauda-Kamarupa line of the proto-Magadhan (Magadhi Prakrit).[19]
Ancient[edit]
Although Sanskrit has been spoken by Hindu Brahmins in Bengal since the mid-first millennium BC, the local Buddhist population spoke varieties of the Prakrit. These varieties are generally referred to as "eastern Magadhi Prakrit", as coined by linguist Suniti Kumar Chatterji,[citation needed] as the Middle Indo-Aryan dialects were influential in the first millennium when Bengal was a part of the Greater Magadhan realm.
The local varieties had no official status during the Gupta Empire, and with Bengal increasingly becoming a hub of Sanskrit literature for Hindu priests, the vernacular of Bengal gained a lot of influence from Sanskrit.[20] Magadhi Prakrit was also spoken in modern-day Bihar and Assam, and this vernacular eventually evolved into Ardha Magadhi.[21][22] Ardha Magadhi began to give way to what is known as Apabhraṃśa, by the end of the first millennium. The Bengali language evolved as a distinct language over the course of time.[23]
Early[edit]
Though some archeologists claim that some 10th-century texts were in Bengali, it is not certain whether they represent a differentiated language or whether they represent a stage when Eastern Indo-Aryan languages were differentiating.[24] The local Apabhraṃśa of the eastern subcontinent, Purbi Apabhraṃśa or Abahatta (lit. 'meaningless sounds'), eventually evolved into regional dialects, which in turn formed three groups, the Bengali–Assamese languages, the Bihari languages, and the Odia language. The language was not static: different varieties coexisted and authors often wrote in multiple dialects in this period. For example, Ardhamagadhi is believed to have evolved into Abahatta around the 6th century, which competed with the ancestor of Bengali for some time.[25][better source needed] The ancestor of Bengali was the language of the Pala Empire and the Sena dynasty.[26][27]
Medieval[edit]
See also: Persian language in the Indian subcontinentSilver coin of Maharaj Gaudeshwar Danujmardandev of Deva dynasty, c. 1417
Silver coin with proto-Bengali script, Harikela Kingdom, c. 9th–13th century
During the medieval period, Middle Bengali was characterized by the elision of the word-final অ ô and the spread of compound verbs, which originated from the Sanskrit Schwa. Slowly, the word-final ô disappeared from many words influenced by the Arabic, Persian, and Turkic languages. The arrival of merchants and traders from the Middle East and Turkestan into the Buddhist-ruling Pala Empire, from as early as the 7th century, gave birth to Islamic influence in the region.[citation needed] In the 13th century, the subsequent Muslim expeditions to Bengal greatly encouraged the migratory movements of Arab Muslims and Turco-Persians, who heavily influenced the local vernacular by settling among the native population.[citation needed]
Bengali acquired prominence, over Persian, in the court of the Sultans of Bengal with the ascent of Jalaluddin Muhammad Shah.[28] Subsequent Muslim rulers actively promoted the literary development of Bengali,[29] allowing it to become the most spoken vernacular language in the Sultanate.[30] Bengali adopted many words from Arabic and Persian, which was a manifestation of Islamic culture on the language. Major texts of Middle Bengali (1400–1800) include Yusuf-Zulekha by Shah Muhammad Sagir and Srikrishna Kirtana by the Chandidas poets. Court support for Bengali culture and language waned when the Mughal Empire conquered Bengal in the late 16th and early 17th century.[31]
Modern[edit]
See also: Bengali language movement
The modern literary form of Bengali was developed during the 19th and early 20th centuries based on the west-central dialect spoken in the Nadia region. Bengali shows a high degree of diglossia, with the literary and standard form differing greatly from the colloquial speech of the regions that identify with the language.[32] Modern Bengali vocabulary is based on words inherited from Magadhi Prakrit and Pali, along with tatsamas and reborrowings from Sanskrit and borrowings from Persian, Arabic, Austroasiatic languages and other languages with which it has historically been in contact.
In the 19th and 20th centuries, there were two main forms of written Bengali:
চলিতভাষা Chôlitôbhasha, a colloquial form of Bengali using simplified inflections.
সাধুভাষা Sadhubhasha, a Sanskritised form of Bengali.[33]
In 1948, the Government of Pakistan tried to impose Urdu as the sole state language in Pakistan, giving rise to the Bengali language movement.[34] This was a popular ethnolinguistic movement in the former East Bengal (today Bangladesh), which arose as a result of the strong linguistic consciousness of the Bengalis and their desire to promote and protect spoken and written Bengali's recognition as a state language of the then Dominion of Pakistan. On 21 February 1952, five students and political activists were killed during protests near the campus of the University of Dhaka; they were the first ever martyrs to die for their right to speak their mother tongue. In 1956, Bengali was made a state language of Pakistan.[34] 21 February has since been observed as Language Movement Day in Bangladesh and has also been commemorated as International Mother Language Day by UNESCO every year since 2000.
In 2010, the parliament of Bangladesh and the legislative assembly of West Bengal proposed that Bengali be made an official UN language.[35] As of January 2023, no further action has been yet taken on this matter. However, in 2022, the UN did adopt Bangla as an unofficial language, after a resolution tabled by India.[36]
The Central Shaheed Minar in Dhaka, BangladeshLanguage Martyr's Memorial at Silchar Railway Station in Assam, India.Mother Language Day Monument in Kolkata, West Bengal
Geographical distribution[edit]
A mural with Bengali letters in Hamtramck-Detroit, United States
Approximate distribution of native Bengali speakers (assuming a rounded total of 261 million) worldwide.
  Bangladesh (61.3%)  India (37.2%)  Other (1.5%)
The Bengali language is native to the region of Bengal, which comprises the present-day nation of Bangladesh and the Indian state of West Bengal.
Besides the native region it is also spoken by the Bengalis living in Tripura, southern Assam and the Bengali population in the Indian union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Bengali is also spoken in the neighbouring states of Odisha, Bihar, and Jharkhand, and sizeable minorities of Bengali speakers reside in Indian cities outside Bengal, including Delhi, Mumbai, Thane, Varanasi, and Vrindavan. There are also significant Bengali-speaking communities in the Middle East,[37][38][39] the United States,[40] Singapore,[41] Malaysia, Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Italy.
Official status[edit]
See also: States of India by Bengali speakers
The 3rd article of the Constitution of Bangladesh states Bengali to be the sole official language of Bangladesh.[11] The Bengali Language Implementation Act, 1987, made it mandatory to use Bengali in all records and correspondences, laws, proceedings of court and other legal actions in all courts, government or semi-government offices, and autonomous institutions in Bangladesh.[9] It is also the de facto national language of the country.
In India, Bengali is one of the 23 official languages.[42] It is the official language of the Indian states of West Bengal, Tripura and in Barak Valley of Assam.[43][44] Bengali has been a second official language of the Indian state of Jharkhand since September 2011.
In Pakistan, Bengali is a recognised secondary language in the city of Karachi.[45][46][47] The Department of Bengali in the University of Karachi also offers regular programs of studies at the Bachelors and at the Masters levels for Bengali Literature.[48]
The national anthems of both Bangladesh (Amar Sonar Bangla) and India (Jana Gana Mana) were written in Bengali by the Bengali Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore.[49] Additionally, the first two verses of Vande Mataram, a patriotic song written in Bengali by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, was adopted as the "national song" of India in both the colonial period and later in 1950 in independent India. Furthermore, it is believed by many that the national anthem of Sri Lanka (Sri Lanka Matha) was inspired by a Bengali poem written by Rabindranath Tagore,[50][51][52][53] while some even believe the anthem was originally written in Bengali and then translated into Sinhala.[54][55][56][57]
After the contribution made by the Bangladesh UN Peacekeeping Force in the Sierra Leone Civil War under the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone, the government of Ahmad Tejan Kabbah declared Bengali as an honorary official language in December 2002.[58][59][60][61]
In 2009, elected representatives in both Bangladesh and West Bengal called for Bengali to be made an official language of the United Nations.[62]
Dialects[edit]
Main article: Bengali dialects
A map of Bengal (and some districts of Assam and Jharkhand) which shows the dialects of the Bengali language.   Bangali (Vanga) dialect   Manbhumi dialect   Varendri dialect   Rarhi dialect   Sundarbani dialect   Rajbanshi dialect/language*   Chittagonian dialect/language*   Sylheti dialect/language* (those marked with an asterisk * are sometimes considered dialects or sometimes as separate languages)
Regional variation in spoken Bengali constitutes a dialect continuum. Linguist Suniti Kumar Chatterji grouped the dialects of Bengali language into four large clusters- Rarhi, Vangiya, Kamrupi and Varendri;[63][64] but many alternative grouping schemes have also been proposed.[65] The south-western dialects (Rarhi or Nadia dialect) form the basis of modern standard colloquial Bengali. In the dialects prevalent in much of eastern and south-eastern Bangladesh (Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka and Sylhet Divisions of Bangladesh), many of the stops and affricates heard in West Bengal are pronounced as fricatives. Western alveolo-palatal affricates চ [tɕɔ], ছ [tɕʰɔ], জ [dʑɔ] correspond to eastern চ [tsɔ], ছ [tsʰɔ~sɔ], জ [dzɔ~zɔ]. The influence of Tibeto-Burman languages on the phonology of Eastern Bengali is seen through the lack of nasalised vowels and an alveolar articulation of what are categorised as the "cerebral" consonants (as opposed to the postalveolar articulation of West Bengal). Some variants of Bengali, particularly Chittagonian and Chakma, have contrastive tone; differences in the pitch of the speaker's voice can distinguish words.  Kharia Thar and Mal Paharia are closely related to Western Bengali dialects, but are typically classified as separate languages. Similarly, Hajong is considered a separate language, although it shares similarities to Northern Bengali dialects.[66]
During the standardisation of Bengali in the 19th century and early 20th century, the cultural centre of Bengal was in Kolkata, a city founded by the British. What is accepted as the standard form today in both West Bengal and Bangladesh is based on the West-Central dialect of Nadia and Kushtia District.[67] There are cases where speakers of Standard Bengali in West Bengal will use a different word from a speaker of Standard Bengali in Bangladesh, even though both words are of native Bengali descent. For example, the word salt is লবণ lôbôṇ in the east which corresponds to নুন nun  in the west.[68]
Bengali exhibits diglossia, though some scholars have proposed triglossia or even n-glossia or heteroglossia between the written and spoken forms of the language.[32] Two styles of writing have emerged, involving somewhat different vocabularies and syntax:[67][69]
Shadhu-bhasha (সাধু ভাষা "upright language") was the written language, with longer verb inflections and more of a Pali and Sanskrit-derived Tatsama vocabulary. Songs such as India's national anthem Jana Gana Mana (by Rabindranath Tagore) were composed in this style. Its use in modern writing however is uncommon, restricted to some official signs and documents in Bangladesh as well as for achieving particular literary effects.
Cholito-bhasha (চলিত ভাষা "running language"), known by linguists as Standard Colloquial Bengali, is a written Bengali style exhibiting a preponderance of colloquial idiom and shortened verb forms and is the standard for written Bengali now. This form came into vogue towards the turn of the 19th century, promoted by the writings of Peary Chand Mitra (Alaler Gharer Dulal, 1857),[70] Pramatha Chaudhuri (Sabujpatra, 1914) and in the later writings of Rabindranath Tagore. It is modeled on the dialect spoken in the Shantipur and Shilaidaha region in Nadia and Kushtia Districts. This form of Bengali is often referred to as the "Kushtia standard"(Bangladesh), "Nadia dialect" (West Bengal), "Southwestern/West-Central dialect" "Shantipuri Bangla" or "Shilaidahi Bangla".[65]
Linguist Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar categorises the language as:
Madhya Rarhi dialect
Kanthi (Contai) dialect
Kolkata dialect
Shantipuriya (Nadia) dialect
Shershahabadia (Maldahiya/ Jangipuri) dialect
Barendri dialect
Rangapuriya dialect
Sylheti dialect
Dhakiya (Bikrampuri) dialect
Jashore/Jessoriya dialect
Barisal (Chandradwip) dialect
Chattal (Chittagong) dialect
While most writing is in Standard Colloquial Bengali (SCB), spoken dialects exhibit a greater variety. People in southeastern West Bengal, including Kolkata, speak in SCB. Other dialects, with minor variations from Standard Colloquial, are used in other parts of West Bengal and western Bangladesh, such as the Midnapore dialect, characterized by some unique words and constructions. However, a majority in Bangladesh speaks dialects notably different from SCB. Some dialects, particularly those of the Chittagong region, bear only a superficial resemblance to SCB.[71] The dialect in the Chittagong region is least widely understood by the general body of Bengalis.[71] The majority of Bengalis are able to communicate in more than one variety – often, speakers are fluent in Cholitobhasha (SCB) and one or more regional dialects.[33]
Even in SCB, the vocabulary may differ according to the speaker's religion: Muslims are more likely to use words of Persian and Arabic origin, along with more words naturally derived from Sanskrit (tadbhava), whereas Hindus are more likely to use tatsama (words directly borrowed from Sanskrit).[72] For example:[68]
Predominantly Hindu usage
Origin
Predominantly Muslim usage
Origin
Translation
নমস্কার nômôshkar
Directly borrowed from Sanskrit namaskāra
আসসালামু আলাইকুম Assalamu Alaikum
Directly from Arabic as-salāmu ʿalaykum
hello
নিমন্ত্রণ nimôntrôṇ
Directly borrowed from Sanskrit nimantraṇa as opposed to the native Bengali nemôntônnô
দাওয়াত dawat
Borrowed from Arabic da`wah via Persian
invitation
জল jôl
Directly borrowed from Sanskrit jala
পানি panī
Native, compare with Sanskrit pānīya
water
স্নান snan
Directly borrowed from Sanskrit snāna
গোসল gosôl
Borrowed from Arabic ghusl via Persian
bath
দিদি didi
Native, from Sanskrit devī
আপা apa
From Turkic languages
sister / elder sister
দাদা dada
Native, from Sanskrit dāyāda
ভাইয়া bhaiya
Native, from Sanskrit bhrātā
brother / elder brother[73]
মাসী mashī
Native, from Sanskrit mātṛṣvasā
খালা khala
Directly borrowed from Arabic khālah
maternal aunt
পিসী pishī
Native, from Sanskrit pitṛṣvasā
ফুফু phuphu
Native, from Prakrit phupphī
paternal aunt
কাকা kaka
From Persian or Dravidian kākā
চাচা chacha
From Prakrit cācca
paternal uncle
প্রার্থনা prarthona
Directly borrowed from Sanskrit prārthanā
দোয়া dua
Borrowed from Arabic du`āʾ
prayer
প্রদীপ prodeep
Directly borrowed from Sanskrit pradīp
বাতি bati
Native, compare with Prakrit batti and Sanskrit barti
lamp
লঙ্কা lonka
Native, named after Lanka
মরিচ morich
Directly borrowed from Sanskrit marica
chilli
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Bengali phonology
The phonemic inventory of standard Bengali consists of 29 consonants and 7 vowels, as well as 7 nasalised vowels. The inventory is set out below in the International Phonetic Alphabet (upper grapheme in each box) and romanisation (lower grapheme).
Vowels
Front
Central
Back
Close
ই~ঈii
উ~ঊuu
Close-mid
এee
ওoo
Open-mid
অ্যাæ æ
অɔô
Open
আaa
Nasalized vowels
Front
Central
Back
Close
ইঁ~ঈঁĩĩ
উঁ~ঊঁũũ
Close-mid
এঁẽẽ
ওঁõõ
Open-mid
এ্যাঁ / অ্যাঁæ̃
অঁɔ̃
Open
আঁ ã
Consonants
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Retroflex
Palato-alveolar
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
 
ŋ
 
Plosive/Affricate
voiceless unaspirated
p
t
ʈ
tʃ
k
voiceless aspirated
pʰ
tʰ
ʈʰ
tʃʰ
kʰ
voiced unaspirated
b
d
ɖ
dʒ
ɡ
voiced aspirated
bʱ
dʱ
ɖʱ
dʒʱ
ɡʱ
Fricative
voiceless
(ɸ)
s
ʃ
(h)
voiced
(β)
(z)
ɦ
Approximant
(w)
l
(j)
Rhotic
voiced unaspirated
r
ɽ
voiced aspirated
(ɽʱ)
Bengali is known for its wide variety of diphthongs, combinations of vowels occurring within the same syllable.[74] Two of these, /oi̯/ and /ou̯/, are the only ones with representation in script, as ঐ and ঔ respectively. /e̯ i̯ o̯ u̯/ may all form the glide part of a diphthong. The total number of diphthongs is not established, with bounds at 17 and 31. An incomplete chart is given by Sarkar (1985) of the following:[75]
e̯
i̯
o̯
u̯
a
ae̯
ai̯
ao̯
au̯
æ
æe̯
æo̯
e
ei̯
eu̯
i
ii̯
iu̯
o
oe̯
oi̯
oo̯
ou̯
u
ui̯
Stress[edit]
In standard Bengali, stress is predominantly initial. Bengali words are virtually all trochaic; the primary stress falls on the initial syllable of the word, while secondary stress often falls on all odd-numbered syllables thereafter, giving strings such as in সহযোগিতা shô-hô-jo-gi-ta "cooperation", where the boldface represents primary and secondary stress.
Consonant clusters[edit]
Main article: Bengali consonant clusters
Native Bengali words do not allow initial consonant clusters;[76] the maximum syllabic structure is CVC (i.e., one vowel flanked by a consonant on each side). Many speakers of Bengali restrict their phonology to this pattern, even when using Sanskrit or English borrowings, such as গেরাম geram (CV.CVC) for গ্রাম gram (CCVC) "village" or ইস্কুল iskul (VC.CVC) for স্কুল skul (CCVC) "school".
Writing system[edit]
Main articles: Bengali-Assamese Script, Bengali alphabet, and Bengali Braille
An example of handwritten Bengali. Part of a poem written in Bengali (and with its English translation below each Bengali paragraph) by Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore in 1926 in Hungary
The Library of Whitechapel in East London with the word "বাংলা" illuminated in its front.
Bengali-Assamese script is an abugida, a script with letters for consonants, diacritics for vowels, and in which an inherent vowel (অ ô) is assumed for consonants if no vowel is marked.[77] The Bengali alphabet is used throughout Bangladesh and eastern India (Assam, West Bengal, Tripura). The Bengali alphabet is believed to have evolved from a modified Brahmic script around 1000 CE (or 10th–11th century).[78] It is a cursive script with eleven graphemes or signs denoting nine vowels and two diphthongs, and thirty-nine graphemes representing consonants and other modifiers.[78] There are no distinct upper and lower case letter forms. The letters run from left to right and spaces are used to separate orthographic words. Bengali script has a distinctive horizontal line running along the tops of the graphemes that links them together called মাত্রা matra.[79]
Since the Bengali script is an abugida, its consonant graphemes usually do not represent phonetic segments, but carry an "inherent" vowel and thus are syllabic in nature. The inherent vowel is usually a back vowel, either [ɔ] as in মত [mɔt] "opinion" or [o], as in মন [mon] "mind", with variants like the more open [ɒ]. To emphatically represent a consonant sound without any inherent vowel attached to it, a special diacritic, called the hôsôntô (্), may be added below the basic consonant grapheme (as in ম্ [m]). This diacritic, however, is not common and is chiefly employed as a guide to pronunciation. The abugida nature of Bengali consonant graphemes is not consistent, however. Often, syllable-final consonant graphemes, though not marked by a hôsôntô, may carry no inherent vowel sound (as in the final ন in মন [mon] or the medial ম in গামলা [ɡamla]).
A consonant sound followed by some vowel sound other than the inherent [ɔ] is orthographically realized by using a variety of vowel allographs above, below, before, after, or around the consonant sign, thus forming the ubiquitous consonant-vowel typographic ligatures. These allographs, called কার kar, are diacritical vowel forms and cannot stand on their own. For example, the graph মি [mi] represents the consonant [m] followed by the vowel [i], where [i] is represented as the diacritical allographি (called ই-কার i-kar) and is placed before the default consonant sign. Similarly, the graphs মা [ma], মী [mi], মু [mu], মূ [mu], মৃ [mri], মে [me~mɛ], মৈ [moj], মো [mo] and মৌ [mow] represent the same consonant ম combined with seven other vowels and two diphthongs. In these consonant-vowel ligatures, the so-called "inherent" vowel [ɔ] is first expunged from the consonant before adding the vowel, but this intermediate expulsion of the inherent vowel is not indicated in any visual manner on the basic consonant sign ম [mɔ].
The vowel graphemes in Bengali can take two forms: the independent form found in the basic inventory of the script and the dependent, abridged, allograph form (as discussed above). To represent a vowel in isolation from any preceding or following consonant, the independent form of the vowel is used. For example, in মই [moj] "ladder" and in ইলিশ [iliʃ] "Hilsa fish", the independent form of the vowel ই is used (cf. the dependent formি). A vowel at the beginning of a word is always realized using its independent form.
In addition to the inherent-vowel-suppressing hôsôntô, three more diacritics are commonly used in Bengali. These are the superposed chôndrôbindu (ঁ), denoting a suprasegmental for nasalisation of vowels (as in চাঁদ [tʃãd] "moon"), the postposed ônusbar (ং) indicating the velar nasal [ŋ] (as in বাংলা [baŋla] "Bengali") and the postposed bisôrgô (ঃ) indicating the voiceless glottal fricative [h] (as in উঃ! [uh] "ouch!") or the gemination of the following consonant (as in দুঃখ [dukʰːɔ] "sorrow").
The Bengali consonant clusters (যুক্তব্যঞ্জন juktôbênjôn) are usually realized as ligatures, where the consonant which comes first is put on top of or to the left of the one that immediately follows. In these ligatures, the shapes of the constituent consonant signs are often contracted and sometimes even distorted beyond recognition. In the Bengali writing system, there are nearly 285 such ligatures denoting consonant clusters. Although there exist a few visual formulas to construct some of these ligatures, many of them have to be learned by rote. Recently, in a bid to lessen this burden on young learners, efforts have been made by educational institutions in the two main Bengali-speaking regions (West Bengal and Bangladesh) to address the opaque nature of many consonant clusters, and as a result, modern Bengali textbooks are beginning to contain more and more "transparent" graphical forms of consonant clusters, in which the constituent consonants of a cluster are readily apparent from the graphical form. However, since this change is not as widespread and is not being followed as uniformly in the rest of the Bengali printed literature, today's Bengali-learning children will possibly have to learn to recognize both the new "transparent" and the old "opaque" forms, which ultimately amounts to an increase in learning burden.
Bengali punctuation marks, apart from the downstroke । daṛi – the Bengali equivalent of a full stop – have been adopted from Western scripts and their usage is similar.[80]
Unlike in Western scripts (Latin, Cyrillic, etc.) where the letter forms stand on an invisible baseline, the Bengali letter-forms instead hang from a visible horizontal left-to-right headstroke called মাত্রা matra. The presence and absence of this matra can be important. For example, the letter ত tô and the numeral ৩ "3" are distinguishable only by the presence or absence of the matra, as is the case between the consonant cluster ত্র trô and the independent vowel এ e, also the letter হ hô and Bengali Ôbogroho ঽ (~ô) and letter ও o and consonant cluster ত্ত ttô. The letter-forms also employ the concepts of letter-width and letter-height (the vertical space between the visible matra and an invisible baseline).
There is yet to be a uniform standard collating sequence (sorting order of graphemes to be used in dictionaries, indices, computer sorting programs, etc.) of Bengali graphemes. Experts in both Bangladesh and India are currently working towards a common solution for this problem.
Alternative and historic scripts[edit]
An 1855 Dobhashi manuscript of Halat-un-Nabi written by Sadeq Ali using the Sylheti Nagri script.
Throughout history, there have been instances of the Bengali language being written in different scripts, though these employments were never popular on a large scale and were communally limited. Owing to Bengal's geographic location, Bengali areas bordering non-Bengali regions have been influenced by each other. Small numbers of people in Midnapore, which borders Odisha, have used the Odia script to write in Bengali. In the border areas between West Bengal and Bihar, some Bengali communities historically wrote Bengali in Devanagari, Kaithi and Tirhuta.[81]
In Sylhet and Bankura, modified versions of the Kaithi script had some historical prominence, mainly among Muslim communities. The variant in Sylhet was identical to the Baitali Kaithi script of Hindustani with the exception of Sylhet Nagri possessing matra.[82] Sylhet Nagri was standardized for printing in c. 1869.[10]
Up until the 19th century, numerous variations of the Arabic script had been used across Bengal from Chittagong in the east to Meherpur in the west.[83][84][85] The 14th-century court scholar of Bengal, Nur Qutb Alam, composed Bengali poetry using the Persian alphabet.[86][87] After the Partition of India in the 20th century, the Pakistani government attempted to institute the Perso-Arabic script as the standard for Bengali in East Pakistan; this was met with resistance and contributed to the Bengali language movement.[88]
In the 16th century, Portuguese missionaries began a tradition of using the Roman alphabet to transcribe the Bengali language. Though the Portuguese standard did not receive much growth, a few Roman Bengali works relating to Christianity and Bengali grammar were printed as far as Lisbon in 1743. The Portuguese were followed by the English and French respectively, whose works were mostly related to Bengali grammar and transliteration. The first version of the Aesop's Fables in Bengali was printed using Roman letters based on English phonology by the Scottish linguist John Gilchrist. Consecutive attempts to establish a Roman Bengali have continued across every century since these times, and have been supported by the likes of Suniti Kumar Chatterji, Muhammad Qudrat-i-Khuda, and Muhammad Enamul Haq.[89] The Digital Revolution has also played a part in the adoption of the English alphabet to write Bengali,[90] with certain social media influencers publishing entire novels in Roman Bengali.[91]
Bengali script like others does have Schwa deletion. It does not mark when the inherent vowel is not used (mainly at the end of words)
Orthographic depth[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The Bengali script in general has a comparatively shallow orthography, i.e., in most cases there is a one-to-one correspondence between the sounds (phonemes) and the letters (graphemes) of Bengali. But grapheme-phoneme inconsistencies do occur in certain cases.
One kind of inconsistency is due to the presence of several letters in the script for the same sound. In spite of some modifications in the 19th century, the Bengali spelling system continues to be based on the one used for Sanskrit,[80] and thus does not take into account some sound mergers that have occurred in the spoken language. For example, there are three letters (শ, ষ, and স) for the voiceless postalveolar fricative [ʃ], although the letter স retains the voiceless alveolar sibilant [s] sound when used in certain consonant conjuncts as in স্খলন [skʰɔlon] "fall", স্পন্দন [spɔndon] "beat", etc. The letter ষ also retains the voiceless retroflex sibilant [ʂ] sound when used in certain consonant conjuncts as in কষ্ট [kɔʂʈɔ] "suffering", গোষ্ঠী [ɡoʂʈʰi] "clan", etc. Similarly, there are two letters (জ and য) for the voiced postalveolar affricate [dʒ]. Moreover, what was once pronounced and written as a retroflex nasal ণ [ɳ] is now pronounced as an alveolar [n] when in conversation (the difference is heard when reading) (unless conjoined with another retroflex consonant such as ট, ঠ, ড and ঢ), although the spelling does not reflect this change. The near-open front unrounded vowel [æ] is orthographically realised by multiple means, as seen in the following examples: এত [æto] "so much", এ্যাকাডেমী [ækademi] "academy", অ্যামিবা [æmiba] "amoeba", দেখা [dækʰa] "to see", ব্যস্ত [bæsto] "busy", ব্যাকরণ [bækorɔn] "grammar".
Another kind of inconsistency is concerned with the incomplete coverage of phonological information in the script. The inherent vowel attached to every consonant can be either [ɔ] or [o] depending on vowel harmony (স্বরসঙ্গতি) with the preceding or following vowel or on the context, but this phonological information is not captured by the script, creating ambiguity for the reader. Furthermore, the inherent vowel is often not pronounced at the end of a syllable, as in কম [kɔm] "less", but this omission is not generally reflected in the script, making it difficult for the new reader.
Many consonant clusters have different sounds than their constituent consonants. For example, the combination of the consonants ক্ [k] and ষ [ʂ] is graphically realized as ক্ষ and is pronounced [kkʰo] (as in রুক্ষ [rukkʰo] "coarse"), [kʰɔ] (as in ক্ষমতা [kʰɔmota] "capability") or even [kʰo] (as in ক্ষতি [kʰoti] "harm"), depending on the position of the cluster in a word. The Bengali writing system is, therefore, not always a true guide to pronunciation.
Uses[edit]
The script used for Bengali, Assamese, and other languages is known as Bengali script. The script is known as the Bengali alphabet for Bengali and its dialects and the Assamese alphabet for Assamese language with some minor variations. Other related languages in the nearby region also make use of the Bengali script like the Meitei language in the Indian state of Manipur, where the Meitei language has been written in the Bengali script for centuries, though the Meitei script has been promoted in recent times.
Number system[edit]
Bengali digits are as follows.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
০
১
২
৩
৪
৫
৬
৭
৮
৯
There are additional digits for fractions and prices, though they are little used any longer.[vague]
Romanisation[edit]
Main article: Romanisation of Bengali
There are various romanisation systems used for Bengali created in recent years which have failed to represent the true Bengali phonetic sound. The Bengali alphabet has often been included with the group of Brahmic scripts for romanisation where the true phonetic value of Bengali is never represented. Some of them are the International Alphabet of Sanskrit Transliteration, or IAST system (based on diacritics);[92] "Indian languages Transliteration", or ITRANS (uses upper case letters suited for ASCII keyboards);[93] and the National Library at Kolkata romanisation.[94]
In the context of Bengali romanisation, it is important to distinguish transliteration from transcription. Transliteration is orthographically accurate (i.e. the original spelling can be recovered), whereas transcription is phonetically accurate (the pronunciation can be reproduced).
Although it might be desirable to use a transliteration scheme where the original Bengali orthography is recoverable from the Latin text, Bengali words are currently romanised on Wikipedia using a phonemic transcription, where the true phonetic pronunciation of Bengali is represented with no reference to how it is written.
The most recent attempt has been by publishers Mitra and Ghosh with the launch of three popular children's books, Abol Tabol, Hasi Khusi and Sahoj Path, in Roman script at the Kolkata Book Fair 2018. Published under the imprint of Benglish Books, these are based on phonetic transliteration and closely follow spellings used in social media but for using an underline to describe soft consonants.
Grammar[edit]
Main article: Bengali grammar
Bengali nouns are not assigned gender, which leads to minimal changing of adjectives (inflection). However, nouns and pronouns are moderately declined (altered depending on their function in a sentence) into four cases while verbs are heavily conjugated, and the verbs do not change form depending on the gender of the nouns.
Word order[edit]
As a head-final language, Bengali follows a subject–object–verb word order, although variations on this theme are common.[95] Bengali makes use of postpositions, as opposed to the prepositions used in English and other European languages. Determiners follow the noun, while numerals, adjectives, and possessors precede the noun.[96]
Yes–no questions do not require any change to the basic word order; instead, the low (L) tone of the final syllable in the utterance is replaced with a falling (HL) tone. Additionally, optional particles (e.g. কি -ki, না -na, etc.) are often encliticised onto the first or last word of a yes–no question.
Wh-questions are formed by fronting the wh-word to focus position, which is typically the first or second word in the utterance.
Nouns[edit]
Nouns and pronouns are inflected for case, including nominative, objective, genitive (possessive), and locative.[23] The case marking pattern for each noun being inflected depends on the noun's degree of animacy. When a definite article such as -টা -ṭa (singular) or -গুলো -gulo (plural) is added, as in the tables below, nouns are also inflected for number.
In most of Bengali grammar books, cases are divided into 6 categories and an additional possessive case (the possessive form is not recognized as a type of case by Bengali grammarians). But in terms of usage, cases are generally grouped into only 4 categories.
Singular noun inflection
Animate
Inanimate
Nominative
ছাত্রটিchatrô-ṭiছাত্রটিchatrô-ṭithe student
জুতোটিjuto-ṭaজুতোটিjuto-ṭathe shoe
Objective
ছাত্রটিকেchatrô-ṭi-keছাত্রটিকেchatrô-ṭi-kethe student
জুতোটাjuto-ṭaজুতোটাjuto-ṭathe shoe
Genitive
ছাত্রটিরchatrô-ṭi-rছাত্রটিরchatrô-ṭi-rthe student's
জুতোটারjuto-ṭa-rজুতোটারjuto-ṭa-rthe shoe's
Locative
–
জুতোটায়juto-ṭa-yজুতোটায়juto-ṭa-yon/in the shoe
Plural noun inflection
Animate
Inanimate
Nominative
ছাত্ররাchatrô-ra/ ছাত্রগণ ছাত্ররা / ছাত্রগণchatrô-ra {} {}the students
জুতাগুলাjuta-gula//জুতোগুলোjuto-guloজুতাগুলা / জুতোগুলোjuta-gula / juto-gulothe shoes
Objective
ছাত্রদের(কে)chatrô-der(ke)ছাত্রদের(কে)chatrô-der(ke)the students
জুতাগুলাjuta-gula//জুতোগুলোjuto-guloজুতাগুলা / জুতোগুলোjuta-gula / juto-gulothe shoes
Genitive
ছাত্রদেরchatrô-derছাত্রদেরchatrô-derthe students'
জুতাগুলাjuta-gula//জুতোগুলোরjuto-gulo-rজুতাগুলা / জুতোগুলোরjuta-gula / juto-gulo-rthe shoes'
Locative
–
জুতাগুলাjuta-gula//জুতোগুলোতেjuto-gulo-teজুতাগুলা / জুতোগুলোতেjuta-gula / juto-gulo-teon/in the shoes
When counted, nouns take one of a small set of measure words. Nouns in Bengali cannot be counted by adding the numeral directly adjacent to the noun. An appropriate measure word (MW), a classifier, must be used between the numeral and the noun (most languages of the Mainland Southeast Asia linguistic area are similar in this respect). Most nouns take the generic measure word -টা -ṭa, though other measure words indicate semantic classes (e.g. -জন -jôn for humans). There is also the classifier -khana, and its diminutive form -khani, which attaches only to nouns denoting something flat, long, square, or thin. These are the least common of the classifiers.[97]
Measure words
Example
নয়টাNôy-ṭanine-MWগরুgorucowনয়টা গরুNôy-ṭa gorunine-MW cowNine cows
কয়টাKôy-ṭahow many-MWবালিশbalishpillowকয়টা বালিশKôy-ṭa balish{how many}-MW pillowHow many pillows
অনেকজনÔnek-jônmany-MWলোকlokpersonঅনেকজন লোকÔnek-jôn lokmany-MW personMany people
চার-পাঁচজনĈar-pãc-jônfour-five-MWশিক্ষকshikkhôkteacherচার-পাঁচজন শিক্ষকĈar-pãc-jôn shikkhôkfour-five-MW teacherFour to five teachers
Measuring nouns in Bengali without their corresponding measure words (e.g. আট বিড়াল aṭ biṛal instead of আটটা বিড়াল aṭ-ṭa biṛal "eight cats") would typically be considered ungrammatical. However, when the semantic class of the noun is understood from the measure word, the noun is often omitted and only the measure word is used, e.g. শুধু একজন থাকবে। Shudhu êk-jôn thakbe. (lit. "Only one-MW will remain.") would be understood to mean "Only one person will remain.", given the semantic class implicit in -জন -jôn.
In this sense, all nouns in Bengali, unlike most other Indo-European languages, are similar to mass nouns.
Verbs[edit]
There are two classes of verbs: finite and non-finite. Non-finite verbs have no inflection for tense or person, while finite verbs are fully inflected for person (first, second, third), tense (present, past, future), aspect (simple, perfect, progressive), and honour (intimate, familiar, and formal), but not for number. Conditional, imperative, and other special inflections for mood can replace the tense and aspect suffixes. The number of inflections on many verb roots can total more than 200.
Inflectional suffixes in the morphology of Bengali vary from region to region, along with minor differences in syntax.
Bengali differs from most Indo-Aryan Languages in the zero copula, where the copula or connective be is often missing in the present tense.[80] Thus, "he is a teacher" is সে শিক্ষক se shikkhôk, (literally "he teacher").[98] In this respect, Bengali is similar to Russian and Hungarian. Romani grammar is also the closest to Bengali grammar.[99]
Vocabulary[edit]
Sources of modern literary Bengali words
  Native (67%)  Sanskrit borrowings (25%)  Indigenous and foreign loans (8%)
Main article: Bengali vocabulary
Bengali has as many as 100,000 separate words, of which 50,000 are considered Tadbhavas, 21,100 are Tatsamas and the remainder loanwords from Austroasiatic and other foreign languages.
However, these figures do not take into account the large proportion of archaic or highly technical words that are very rarely used. Furthermore, different dialects use more Persian and Arabic vocabulary, especially in different areas of Bangladesh and Muslim majority areas of West Bengal. Hindus, on the other hand, use more Sanskrit vocabulary than Muslims. Standard Bengali is based on the Nadia dialect spoken in the Hindu-majority states of West Bengal and parts of the Muslim-majority division of Khulna in Bangladesh. About 90% of Bengalis in Bangladesh (ca. 148 million) and 27% of Bengalis in West Bengal and 10% in Assam (ca. 36 million) are Muslim and the Bangladeshi Muslims and some of the Indian Bengali Muslims speak a more "persio-arabised" version of Bengali instead of the more Sanskrit influenced Standard Nadia dialect although the majority of the Indian Bengalis of West Bengal speaks in Rarhi dialect irrespective of religion. The productive vocabulary used in modern literary works, in fact, is made up mostly (67%) of Tadbhavas, while Tatsamas make up only 25% of the total.[100][101] Loanwords from non-Indic languages account for the remaining 8% of the vocabulary used in modern Bengali literature.
According to Suniti Kumar Chatterji, dictionaries from the early 20th century attributed a little more than 50% of the Bengali vocabulary to native words (i.e., naturally modified Sanskrit words, corrupted forms of Sanskrit words, and loanwords non-Indo-European languages). About 45% percent of Bengali words are unmodified Sanskrit, and the remaining words are from foreign languages.[102] Dominant in the last group was Persian, which was also the source of some grammatical forms. More recent studies suggest that the use of native and foreign words has been increasing, mainly because of the preference of Bengali speakers for the colloquial style.[102] Because of centuries of contact with Europeans, Turkic peoples, and Persians, Bengali has absorbed numerous words from foreign languages, often totally integrating these borrowings into the core vocabulary.
The most common borrowings from foreign languages come from three different kinds of contact. After close contact with several indigenous Austroasiatic languages,[103][104][105][106] and later the Mughal conquest whose court language was Persian, numerous Chagatai, Arabic, and Persian words were absorbed into the lexicon.[34]
Later, East Asian travelers and lately European colonialism brought words from Portuguese, French, Dutch, and most significantly English during the colonial period.
Sample text[edit]
The following is a sample text in Bengali of Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights:
সমস্তSômôstôʃɔmostoAllমানুষmanushmanuʃhumanস্বাধীনভাবেshadhinbhabeʃadʱinbʱabefree-manner-inসমানsômanʃomanequalমর্যাদাmôrjadamɔɾdʒadadignityএবংebôngeboŋandঅধিকারôdhikarodʱikaɾrightনিয়েniyenie̯etakenজন্মগ্রহণjônmôgrôhôndʒɔnmoɡrohonbirth-takeকরে।kôre.kɔɾedo.তাঁদেরTãdertãdeɾTheirবিবেকbibekbibekreasonএবংebôngeboŋandবুদ্ধিbuddhibudʱːiintelligenceআছে;achhe;atʃʰeexist;সুতরাংsutôrangʃutoraŋthereforeসকলেরইsôkôleriʃɔkoleɾieveryone-indeedএকেêkeɛkeoneঅপরেরôpôrerɔporeɾanother'sপ্রতিprôtiprotitowardsভ্রাতৃত্বসুলভbhratrittôsulôbhbʱratritːoʃulɔbʱbrotherhood-lyমনোভাবmônobhabmonobʱabattitudeনিয়েniyenie̯etakenআচরণachôrônatʃorɔnconductকরাkôrakɔradoউচিত।uchit.utʃitshould.সমস্ত মানুষ স্বাধীনভাবে সমান মর্যাদা এবং অধিকার নিয়ে জন্মগ্রহণ করে। তাঁদের বিবেক এবং বুদ্ধি আছে; সুতরাং সকলেরই একে অপরের প্রতি ভ্রাতৃত্বসুলভ মনোভাব নিয়ে আচরণ করা উচিত।Sômôstô manush shadhinbhabe sôman môrjada ebông ôdhikar niye jônmôgrôhôn kôre. Tãder bibek ebông buddhi achhe; sutôrang sôkôleri êke ôpôrer prôti bhratrittôsulôbh mônobhab niye achôrôn kôra uchit.ʃɔmosto manuʃ ʃadʱinbʱabe ʃoman mɔɾdʒada eboŋ odʱikaɾ nie̯e dʒɔnmoɡrohon kɔɾe tãdeɾ bibek eboŋ budʱːi atʃʰe ʃutoraŋ ʃɔkoleɾi ɛke ɔporeɾ proti bʱratritːoʃulɔbʱ monobʱab nie̯e atʃorɔn kɔra utʃitAll human free-manner-in equal dignity and right taken birth-take do. Their reason and intelligence exist; therefore everyone-indeed one another's towards brotherhood-ly attitude taken conduct do should.All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They possess conscience and reason. Therefore, everyone should act in a spirit of brotherhood towards each other.
See also[edit]
Bangla Academy
Bengali dialects
Bengali numerals
Bengali-language newspapers
Chittagonian language
Languages of Bangladesh
Rangpuri language
Romani people
Sylheti language
Notes[edit]
^ a b c Bengali language at Ethnologue (22nd ed., 2019) 
^ "Scheduled Languages in descending order of speaker's strength - 2011" (PDF). Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India. Archived (PDF) from the original on 14 November 2018. Retrieved 28 June 2018.
^ "Bangla Sign Language Dictionary". www.scribd.com. Retrieved 12 September 2018.
^ a b "Jharkhand gives second language status to Magahi, Angika, Bhojpuri, and Maithili". The Avenue Mail. 21 March 2018. Archived from the original on 28 March 2019. Retrieved 30 April 2019.
^ "Bengal". The Chambers Dictionary (9th ed.). Chambers. 2003. ISBN 0-550-10105-5.
^ Laurie Bauer, 2007, The Linguistics Student's Handbook, Edinburgh
^ "The World Factbook". www.cia.gov. Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved 21 February 2018.
^ "Summary by language size". Ethnologue. 2019. Archived from the original on 24 April 2019. Retrieved 21 February 2019.
^ a b "Bangla Bhasha Procholon Ain, 1987" বাংলা ভাষা প্রচলন আইন, ১৯৮৭ [Bengali Language Implementation Act, 1987] (PDF). Bangladesh Code বাংলাদেশ কোড (in Bengali). Vol. 27 (Online ed.). Dhaka: Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs, Bangladesh. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 July 2016. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ a b "Bangla Language". Banglapedia. Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. Retrieved 12 September 2018.
^ a b "The Constitution of the People's Republic of Bangladesh". Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ "National Languages Of Bangladesh". einfon.com. 11 June 2017. Archived from the original on 2 August 2017. Retrieved 12 September 2018.
^ "5 Surprising Reasons the Bengali Language Is Important". 17 August 2017. Archived from the original on 26 June 2018. Retrieved 10 March 2018.
^ "50th Report of the Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities in India (July 2012 to June 2013)" (PDF). National Commission for Linguistic Minorities. 16 July 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 January 2018. Retrieved 20 February 2018.
^ "50th Report of the Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities in India" (PDF). nclm.nic.in. Ministry of Minority Affairs. Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 July 2016. Retrieved 23 May 2019.
^ "Bengali Language". www.britannica.com. Archived from the original on 26 June 2018. Retrieved 12 September 2018.
^ "Amendment to the Draft Programme and Budget for 2000–2001 (30 C/5)" (PDF). General Conference, 30th Session, Draft Resolution. UNESCO. 1999. Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 May 2011. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
^ "Resolution adopted by the 30th Session of UNESCO's General Conference (1999)". International Mother Language Day. UNESCO. Archived from the original on 1 June 2008. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
^ (Toulmin 2009:220)
^ Shariful Islam (2012). "Bangla Script". In Sirajul Islam; Miah, Sajahan; Khanam, Mahfuza; Ahmed, Sabbir (eds.). Banglapedia: the National Encyclopedia of Bangladesh (Online ed.). Dhaka, Bangladesh: Banglapedia Trust, Asiatic Society of Bangladesh. ISBN 984-32-0576-6. OCLC 52727562. OL 30677644M. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
^ Shah 1998, p. 11
^ Keith 1998, p. 187
^ a b (Bhattacharya 2000)
^ "Within the Eastern Indic language family the history of the separation of Bangla from Odia, Assamese, and the languages of Bihar remains to be worked out carefully. Scholars do not yet agree on criteria for deciding if certain tenth century AD texts were in a Bangla already distinguishable from the other languages, or marked a stage at which Eastern Indic had not finished differentiating." (Dasgupta 2003:386–387)
^ "Banglapedia". Banglapedia. Retrieved 7 November 2017.
^ "Pala dynasty – Indian dynasty". Global.britannica.com. Archived from the original on 5 March 2017. Retrieved 7 November 2017.
^ nimmi. "Pala Dynasty, Pala Empire, Pala empire in India, Pala School of Sculptures". Indianmirror.com. Archived from the original on 28 October 2017. Retrieved 7 November 2017.
^ "What is more significant, a contemporary Chinese traveler reported that although Persian was understood by some in the court, the language in universal use there was Bengali. This points to the waning, although certainly not yet the disappearance, of the sort of foreign mentality that the Muslim ruling class in Bengal had exhibited since its arrival over two centuries earlier. It also points to the survival, and now the triumph, of local Bengali culture at the highest level of official society." (Eaton 1993:60)
^ Rabbani, AKM Golam (7 November 2017). "Politics and Literary Activities in the Bengali Language during the Independent Sultanate of Bengal". Dhaka University Journal of Linguistics. 1 (1): 151–166. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 7 November 2017 – via www.banglajol.info.
^ Eaton 1993.
^ (Eaton 1993:167–174)
^ a b "Bengali Language at Cornell". Department of Asian Studies. Cornell University. Archived from the original on 15 November 2012.
^ a b Ray, S Kumar. "The Bengali Language and Translation". Translation Articles. Kwintessential. Archived from the original on 25 September 2006. Retrieved 19 November 2006.
^ a b c Thompson, Hanne-Ruth (2012). Bengali (Paperback with corrections. ed.). Amsterdam: John Benjamins Pub. Co. p. 3. ISBN 978-90-272-3819-1.
^ "Bengali 'should be UN language'". News.bbc.co.uk. 22 December 2009. Archived from the original on 8 November 2017. Retrieved 7 November 2017.
^ "UN adopts Bangla as unofficial language". www.dhakatribune.com. 12 June 2022. Retrieved 20 January 2023.
^ "Kuwait restricts recruitment of male Bangladeshi workers | Dhaka Tribune". www.dhakatribune.com. 7 September 2016. Archived from the original on 30 August 2017. Retrieved 4 December 2017.
^ "Bahrain: Foreign population by country of citizenship, sex and migration status (worker/ family dependent) (selected countries, January 2015) – GLMM". GLMM. 20 October 2015. Archived from the original on 16 December 2017. Retrieved 4 December 2017.
^ "Saudi Arabia". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 23 November 2017. Retrieved 4 December 2017.
^ "New York State Voter Registration Form" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 27 January 2018. Retrieved 10 February 2018.
^ "Bangla Language and Literary Society, Singapore". Archived from the original on 5 May 2013.
^ "Languages of India". Ethnologue Report. Archived from the original on 26 December 2009. Retrieved 4 November 2006.
^ "Language". Government of Assam. Archived from the original on 26 August 2006. Retrieved 20 June 2006.
^ Bhattacharjee, Kishalay (30 April 2008). "It's Indian language vs Indian language". NDTV.com. Archived from the original on 23 July 2013. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
^ Syed Yasir Kazmi (16 October 2009). "Pakistani Bengalis". DEMOTIX. Archived from the original on 2 January 2015. Retrieved 2 April 2013.
^ "کراچی کے 'بنگالی پاکستانی'(Urdu)". محمد عثمان جامعی. 17 November 2003. Archived from the original on 19 November 2003. Retrieved 2 April 2013.
^ Rafiqul Islam. "The Language Movement : An Outline". Archived from the original on 19 November 2012. Retrieved 12 May 2016.
^ "Karachi Department of Bengali". Archived from the original on 10 May 2013. Retrieved 2 April 2013.
^ "Statement by Foreign Minister on Second Bangladesh-India Track II dialogue at BRAC Centre on 07 August, 2005". Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government of Bangladesh. Archived from the original on 18 April 2008. Retrieved 27 May 2008.
^ "Sri Lanka". The World Factbook. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
^ "Man of the series: Nobel laureate Tagore". The Times of India. Times News Network. 3 April 2011. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018. Retrieved 20 June 2019.
^ "Sri Lanka I-Day to have anthem in Tamil". The Hindu. 4 February 2016. Archived from the original on 4 February 2016. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
^ "Tagore's influence on Lankan culture". Hindustan Times. 12 May 2010. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
^ Wickramasinghe, Nira (2003). Dressing the Colonised Body: Politics, Clothing, and Identity in Sri Lanka. Orient Longman. p. 26. ISBN 978-81-250-2479-8. Archived from the original on 29 September 2018. Retrieved 29 September 2018.
^ Wickramasinghe, Kamanthi; Perera, Yoshitha. "Sri Lankan National Anthem: can it be used to narrow the gap?". The Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka). No. 30 March 2015. Archived from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
^ Haque, Junaidul (7 May 2011). "Rabindranath: He belonged to the world". The Daily Star (Bangladesh). Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
^ Habib, Haroon (17 May 2011). "Celebrating Rabindranath Tagore's legacy". The Hindu. Archived from the original on 13 June 2014. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
^ "How Bengali became an official language in Sierra Leone". The Indian Express. 21 February 2017. Retrieved 22 March 2017.
^ "Why Bangla is an official language in Sierra Leone". Dhaka Tribune. 23 February 2017.
^ Ahmed, Nazir (21 February 2017). "Recounting the sacrifices that made Bangla the State Language".
^ "Sierra Leone makes Bengali official language". Pakistan. 29 December 2002. Archived from the original on 27 September 2013.
^ Bhaumik, Subir (22 December 2009). "Bengali 'should be UN language'". BBC News. Archived from the original on 3 April 2012. Retrieved 25 January 2010.
^  name="huq_sarkar"
^ The Origin and Development of the Bengali language, Suniti kumar Chatterjee, Vol- 1, Page 140, George Allen and Unwin London,New Edition,1970.
^ a b Morshed, Abul Kalam Manjoor (2012). "Dialect". In Sirajul Islam; Miah, Sajahan; Khanam, Mahfuza; Ahmed, Sabbir (eds.). Banglapedia: the National Encyclopedia of Bangladesh (Online ed.). Dhaka, Bangladesh: Banglapedia Trust, Asiatic Society of Bangladesh. ISBN 984-32-0576-6. OCLC 52727562. OL 30677644M. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
^ "Hajong". The Ethnologue Report. Archived from the original on 15 November 2006. Retrieved 19 November 2006.
^ a b Sirajul Islam; Miah, Sajahan; Khanam, Mahfuza; Ahmed, Sabbir, eds. (2012). "Bangladesh". Banglapedia: the National Encyclopedia of Bangladesh (Online ed.). Dhaka, Bangladesh: Banglapedia Trust, Asiatic Society of Bangladesh. ISBN 984-32-0576-6. OCLC 52727562. OL 30677644M. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
^ a b "History of Bengali (Banglar itihash)". Bengal Telecommunication and Electric Company. Archived from the original on 7 July 2011. Retrieved 20 November 2006.
^ Huq, Mohammad Daniul (2012). "Sadhu Bhasa". In Sirajul Islam; Miah, Sajahan; Khanam, Mahfuza; Ahmed, Sabbir (eds.). Banglapedia: the National Encyclopedia of Bangladesh (Online ed.). Dhaka, Bangladesh: Banglapedia Trust, Asiatic Society of Bangladesh. ISBN 984-32-0576-6. OCLC 52727562. OL 30677644M. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
^ Huq, Mohammad Daniul (2012). "Alaler Gharer Dulal". In Sirajul Islam; Miah, Sajahan; Khanam, Mahfuza; Ahmed, Sabbir (eds.). Banglapedia: the National Encyclopedia of Bangladesh (Online ed.). Dhaka, Bangladesh: Banglapedia Trust, Asiatic Society of Bangladesh. ISBN 984-32-0576-6. OCLC 52727562. OL 30677644M. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
^ a b Ray, Hai & Ray 1966, p. 89
^ Ray, Hai & Ray 1966, p. 80
^ "A Bilingual Dictionary of Words and Phrases (English-Bengali)". Bengali-dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 25 October 2016. Retrieved 25 October 2016.
^ (Masica 1991, pp. 116)
^ Sarkar, Pabitra (1985). Bangla diswar dhoni. Bhasa.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ (Masica 1991, pp. 125)
^ Escudero Pascual Alberto (23 October 2005). "Writing Systems/ Scripts" (PDF). Primer to Localization of Software. it46.se. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 March 2009. Retrieved 20 November 2006.
^ a b "Bangalah". Archived from the original on 5 July 2015. in Asiatic Society of Bangladesh 2003
^ "banglasemantics.net". Archived from the original on 24 December 2010.
^ a b c "Bangla language". Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. in Asiatic Society of Bangladesh 2003
^ Chatterji (1926), p. 234-235.
^ Saha, RN (1935). "The Origin of the Alphabet and Numbers". In Khattry, DP (ed.). Report of All Asia Educational Conference (Benares, December 26-30, 1930). Allahabad, India: The Indian Press Ltd. pp. 751–779.
^ Chatterji (1926), pp. 228–233.
^ Khan Sahib, Maulavi Abdul Wali (2 November 1925). A Bengali Book written in Persian Script.
^ Ahmad, Qeyamuddin (20 March 2020). The Wahhabi Movement in India. Routledge.
^ "The development of Bengali literature during Muslim rule" (PDF). Blogs.edgehill.ac.uk. Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 August 2017. Retrieved 7 November 2016.
^ Shahidullah, Muhammad (February 1963). "হযরত নূরুদ্দীন নূরুল হক নূর কুতবুল আলম (রহঃ)". ইসলাম প্রসঙ্গ (in Bengali) (1 ed.). Dacca: Mawla Brothers. p. 99.
^ Kurzon, Dennis (2010). "Romanisation of Bengali and Other Indian Scripts". Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. 20 (1): 71–73. ISSN 1356-1863. JSTOR 27756124.
^ Chatterji (1926), pp. 233–234.
^ Kurzon, Dennis (2009). Romanisation of Bengali and Other Indian Scripts (Thesis). Cambridge University.
^ Islam, Tahsina (18 September 2019). "The question of standard Bangla". The Independent. Dhaka.
^ "Learning International Alphabet of Sanskrit Transliteration". Sanskrit 3 – Learning transliteration. Gabriel Pradiipaka & Andrés Muni. Archived from the original on 12 February 2007. Retrieved 20 November 2006.
^ "ITRANS – Indian Language Transliteration Package". Avinash Chopde. Archived from the original on 23 January 2013. Retrieved 20 November 2006.
^ "Annex-F: Roman Script Transliteration" (PDF). Indian Standard: Indian Script Code for Information Interchange – ISCII. Bureau of Indian Standards. 1 April 1999. p. 32. Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 July 2012. Retrieved 20 November 2006.
^ (Bhattacharya 2000, pp. 16)
^ "Bengali". UCLA Language Materials project. University of California, Los Angeles. Archived from the original on 15 July 2007. Retrieved 20 November 2006.
^ Boyle David, Anne (2015). Descriptive grammar of Bangla. De Gruyter. pp. 141–142.
^ Among Bengali speakers brought up in neighbouring linguistic regions (e.g. Hindi), the lost copula may surface in utterances such as she shikkhôk hocche. This is viewed as ungrammatical by other speakers, and speakers of this variety are sometimes (humorously) referred as "hocche-Bangali".
^ 
Hübschmannová, Milena (1995). "Romaňi čhib – romština: Několik základních informací o romském jazyku". Bulletin Muzea Romské Kultury. Brno (4/1995). Zatímco romská lexika je bližší hindštině, marvárštině, pandžábštině atd., v gramatické sféře nacházíme mnoho shod s východoindickým jazykem, s bengálštinou.
^ "Tatsama". Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. in Asiatic Society of Bangladesh 2003
^ "Tadbhaba". Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. in Asiatic Society of Bangladesh 2003
^ a b "Bengali language". Archived from the original on 11 October 2016. Retrieved 2 September 2016.
^ Byomkes Chakrabarti A Comparative Study of Santali and Bengali, K.P. Bagchi & Co., Kolkata, 1994, ISBN 81-7074-128-9
^ Das, Khudiram (1998). Santhali Bangla Samashabda Abhidhan. Kolkata, India: Paschim Banga Bangla Akademi.
^ "Bangla santali vasa samporko" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 1 March 2017. Retrieved 16 March 2017.
^ Das, Khudiram. Bangla Santali Bhasa Samporko (eBook).
References[edit]
Alam, M (2000). Bhasha Shourôbh: Bêkorôn O Rôchona (The Fragrance of Language: Grammar and Rhetoric). S.N. Printers, Dhaka.
Ali, Shaheen Sardar; Rehman, Javaid (2001). Indigenous Peoples and Ethnic Minorities of Pakistan: Constitutional and Legal Perspectives. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-7007-1159-8.
Asiatic Society of Bangladesh (2003). Banglapedia, the national encyclopedia of Bangladesh. Dhaka: Asiatic Society of Bangladesh.
Bhattacharya, T (2000). "Bengali" (PDF). In Gary, J. and Rubino. C. (ed.). Encyclopedia of World's Languages: Past and Present (Facts About the World's Languages). WW Wilson, New York. ISBN 978-0-8242-0970-4. Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 June 2006.
Bonazzi, Eros (2008). "Bengali". Dizionario Bengali. Avallardi (Italy). ISBN 978-88-7887-168-7.
Cardona, George; Jain, Danesh (2007). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-135-79711-9.
Chakraborty, Byomkes, A Comparative Study of Santali and Bengali, K.P. Bagchi & Co., Kolkata, 1994, ISBN 81-7074-128-9.
Chatterji, SK (1921). "Bengali Phonetics". Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies. 2: 1. doi:10.1017/S0041977X0010179X. S2CID 246637825.
Chatterji, SK (1926). The Origin and Development of the Bengali Language. Calcutta Univ. Press. OCLC 4700363.
Dasgupta, Probal (2003), "Bangla", in Cardona, George; Jain, Dhanesh (eds.), The Indo-Aryan Languages, Routledge, pp. 386–428
Eaton, Richard M. (1993). The Rise of Islam and the Bengal Frontier, 1204–1760. University of California. ISBN 978-0-520-20507-9. Retrieved 13 July 2017.
Ferguson, CA; Chowdhury, M (1960). "The Phonemes of Bengali". Language. 36 (1): 22–59. doi:10.2307/410622. JSTOR 410622.
Grierson, George Abraham (1911). "Bengali" . In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 3 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 733–736.
Haldar, Gopal (2000). Languages of India. National Book Trust, India. ISBN 978-81-237-2936-7.
Hayes, B; Lahiri, A (1991). "Bengali intonational phonology". Natural Language & Linguistic Theory. 9: 47. doi:10.1007/BF00133326. S2CID 170109876.
Keith, Arthur Berriedale (1998). The Sanskrit Drama. Motilal Banarsidass Publ. ISBN 978-81-208-0977-2.
Khan, Sameer ud Dowla (2010). "Bengali (Bangladeshi Standard)". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 40 (2): 221–225. doi:10.1017/S0025100310000071.
Klaiman, MH (1987). "Bengali". In Comrie, Bernard (ed.). The World's Major Languages. Croon Helm, London and Sydney. ISBN 978-0-19-506511-4.
Masica, Colin P. (1991). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Cambridge Univ. Press. ISBN 978-0-521-23420-7.
Radice, W (1994). Teach Yourself Bengali: A Complete Course for Beginners. NTC/Contemporary Publishing Company. ISBN 978-0-8442-3752-7.
Ray, P; Hai, MA; Ray, L (1966). Bengali language handbook. Center for Applied Linguistics, Washington. ASIN B000B9G89C.
Shah, Natubhai (1998). Jainism: The World of Conquerors. Sussex Academic Press. ISBN 978-1-898723-31-8.
Tagore, Rabindranath; Das, Sisir Kumar (1996). The English Writings of Rabindranath Tagore. Sahitya Akademi. ISBN 978-81-260-0094-4.
Wilson, A.J.; Dalton, D. (1982). The States of South Asia: Problems of National Integration. Essays in Honour of W.H. Morris-Jones. University of Hawaii Press. ISBN 978-0-8248-1183-9.
Bonazzi, E (2008). Grammatica Bengali. Bologna: Libreria Bonomo Editrice. ISBN 978-88-6071-017-8.
Shaw, Rameswar Sadharan Bhasabigna O Bangal Bhasa, Pustak Bipani, Kolkata, 1997.
Haldar, Narayan Bengali Bhasa Prsanga: Banan Kathan Likhanriti, Pustak Bipani, Kolkata, 2007.
Toulmin, Mathew W S (2009), From Linguistic to Sociolinguistic Reconstruction: The Kamta Historical Subgroup of Indo-Aryan, Pacific Linguistics
Further reading[edit]
Thompson, Hanne-Ruth (2012). Bengali. Volume 18 of London Oriental and African Language Library. John Benjamins Publishing. ISBN 90-272-7313-8.
External links[edit]
Bengali language at Curlie
The South Asian Literary Recordings Project: Bengali Authors at the Library of Congress
Bengali language at Wikipedia's sister projects:Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsQuotations from WikiquoteTexts from WikisourceTextbooks from WikibooksResources from WikiversityTravel guides from WikivoyageBangla edition of Wikipedia
vteBengali language Written Bengali
Alphabet
grammar
consonant clusters
Romanization
Numerals
Braille
Spoken Bengali
Phonology
Vocabulary
tôtsômô
Dialects
Bangali
Chittagonian
Christian
Dhakaiya Kutti
Dobhashi
Manbhumi
Rangpuri
Rarhi
Sadhu bhasha
Sylheti
Varendri
Language Movement
Bengali language movement (Bangladesh)
Language Movement Day (Bangladesh)
Shoheed Minar
International Mother Language Day
Bengali Language Movement in Assam
Bengali Language Movement in India
Bengali language movement (Manbhum)
Language institutions
Bangla Academy
Shilpakala Academy
PôshchimBônggô Bangla Akademi
Bônggiyô Sahityô Pôrishôd
Bishwô Sahityô Kendrô
Pôshchim Bônggô Natyô Akademi
Literature
Folk literature
Authors
Poets
Literary awards
Bangla Academy Literary Award
Ekushey Padak
Rabindra Puraskar
Sahitya Akademi Award
Bankim Puraskar
Ananda Puraskar
Personalities
Ram Mohan Roy
Kazi Nazrul Islam
Rabindranath Tagore
Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar
Nathaniel Brassey Halhed
John Beames
Suniti Kumar Chatterji
Muhammad Shahidullah
Humayun Azad
Mega-events
Ekushey Book Fair
Kolkata Book Fair
Cinema
Cinema of Bangladesh
Cinema of West Bengal
Other
Bengali input methods in computers
States of India by Bengali speakers
Links to related articles
vte Languages of BangladeshOfficial language
Bengali
Indo-European
Assamese
Chittagonian
Bengali
Dhakaiya Kutti
Eastern Bengali
Noakhailla
Rangpuri
Rarhi
Rohingya
Sylheti
Varendri
Bihari
Bishnupriya
Chakma
English
Bangladeshi English
Hajong
Hindustani
Dhakaiya Urdu
Hindi
Urdu
Khotta
Odia
Persian
Sadri (Nagpuri)
Sino-Tibetan
Shö
A'Tong
Bawm
Sak
Kukish
Falam
Garo
Hakha Chin (Laiholh)
Khumi
Koch
Kokborok
Megam
Meitei (Manipuri)
Mizo
Mru
Pangkhu
Rakhine (Marma)
Rengmitca
Tanchangya
Austroasiatic
Khasi
Koda
Kol
Mundari
Pnar
Santali
War-Jaintia
Dravidian
Kurukh
Sauria Paharia
Afro-Asiatic
Arabic
Sign
Indo-Pakistani Sign Language
vteLanguages of IndiaOfficiallanguagesUnion-level
Hindi
English
8th schedule to the Constitution of India
Assamese
Bengali
Bodo
Dogri
Gujarati
Hindi
Kannada
Kashmiri
Konkani
Maithili
Malayalam
Meitei (Manipuri)
Marathi
Nepali
Odia
Punjabi
Sanskrit
Santali
Sindhi
Tamil
Telugu
Urdu
State-level only
Angika
Bhojpuri
Chhattisgarhi
Garo
Gurung
Ho
Kamatapuri
Kharia
Khasi
Khortha
Kokborok
Kurmali
Kurukh
Lepcha
Limbu
Magahi
Magar
Mizo
Mundari
Newari
Rai
Rajbangshi
Sadri
Sherpa
Sikkimese
Sunwar
Tamang
MajorunofficiallanguagesOver 1 millionspeakers
Awadhi
Bagheli
Bagri
Bajjika
Bhili
Bundeli
Dhundhari
Garhwali
Gondi
Harauti
Haryanvi
Kangri
Khandeshi
Kumaoni
Lambadi
Malvi
Marwari
Mewari
Nimadi
Rajasthani
Surjapuri
Tulu
Wagdi
Varhadi
100,000 – 1 millionspeakers
Adi
Angami
Ao
Badaga
Dimasa
Halbi
Karbi
Khotta
Kodava
Kolami
Konyak
Korku
Koya
Kui
Kuvi
Ladakhi
Lotha
Malto
Mising
Nishi
Phom
Rabha
Sema
Sora
Tangkhul
Thadou
Linguistic history
Classical
Multilingualism
Endangered
Scheduled languages in states
vteIndo-Aryan languagesDardicKashmiri
Kashmiri
Kishtwari
Shina
Shina
Brokskat
Kundal Shahi
Kalkoti
Ushoji
Palula
Sawi
Pashayi
Pashayi
Kunar
Dameli
Gawar-Bati
Nangalami
Shumashti
Chitral
Kalasha
Khowar
Kohistani
Indus Kohistani
Bateri
Chilisso
Gowro
Kalami
Tirahi
Torwali
Wotapuri-Katarqalai
NorthernEastern
Doteli
Jumli
Nepali
Central
Garhwali
Kumaoni
Western
Dogri
Kangri
Bhadarwahi
Churahi
Bhateali
Bilaspuri
Chambeali
Gaddi
Pangwali
Mandeali
Mahasu Pahari
Jaunsari
Kullui
Pahari Kinnauri
Hinduri
Sirmauri
Sarazi
NorthwesternPunjabiEastern
Punjabi
dialects
Sansi
Lahnda
Hindko
Inku
Khetrani
Pahari-Pothwari
Saraiki
Sindhi
Jadgali
Kholosi
Kutchi
Luwati
Memoni
Sindhi
WesternGujarati
Aer
Gujarati
Jandavra
Koli
Kachi
Parkari
Wadiyara
Lisan ud-Dawat
Parkari Koli
Saurashtra
Vaghri
Rajasthani
Bagri
Goaria
Loarki
Gujari
Dhundari
Harauti
Malvi
Marwari
Mewati
Mewari
Shekhawati
Dhatki
Nimadi
Bhil
Bhili
Bhilali
Chodri
Dhodia-Kukna
Dhanki
Dubli
Bauria
Bhilori
Mawchi
Magari
Palya Bareli
Pauri Bareli
Rathwi Bareli
Pardhi
Gamit
Kalto
Vasavi
Wagdi
Vaagri Booli
Others
Khandeshi
Lambadi
Dawoodi
Domari
Romani
list of languages
CentralWestern
Braj Bhasha
Bundeli
Haryanvi
Hindustani
Kauravi
Hindi
Urdu
Deccani
Judeo-Urdu
Hyderabadi Urdu
Rekhta
Kannauji
Sansi
Sadhukkadi
Eastern
Awadhi
Bagheli
Chhattisgarhi
Fiji Hindi
Others
Parya
EasternBihariBhojpuric
Bhojpuri
Caribbean Hindustani
Magahi
Magahi
Khortha
Maithili
Maithili
Angika
Bajjika
Sadanic
Sadri
Kurmali
Tharuic
Tharu
Kochila
Buksa
Majhi
Musasa
Others
Kumhali
Kuswaric
Bote-Darai
Danwar
Bengali–AssameseBengali
Bengali
dialects
Bishnupriya Manipuri
Hajong
Chittagonian
Chakma
Kharia Thar
Kurmukar
Mal Paharia
Noakhailla
Rohingya
Sylheti
Tanchangya
Kamarupic
Assamese
Kamrupi
Goalpariya
Rajbanshi (Nepal)
Rangpuri
Surjapuri
Odia
Odia
Sambalpuri
Desia
Bhatri
Bodo Parja
Reli
Kupia
Halbic
Halbi
Kamar
Bhunjia
Nahari
SouthernMarathi–KonkaniMarathic
Marathi
Varhadi
Andh
Berar Deccan
Varli
Phudagi
Katkari
Kadodi
Konkanic
Konkani
Maharashtrian Konkani
Canarese Konkani
Insular
Maldivian
Sinhala
Old
Sanskrit
Vedic
Classical
Mitanni superstrate
MiddleEarly
Ashokan Prakrit
Pāli
Early Ardhamagadhi
Middle (Prakrit)
Buddhist Hybrid Sanskrit
Dramatic Prakrits
Ardhamagadhi
Magadhi
Maharashtri
Shauraseni
Gāndhārī
Paishachi
Late (Apabhraṃśa)
Abahattha
Apabhraṃśa
Elu
Kamarupi
Khasa Prakrit
Proto-languages
Proto-Indo-Iranian
Proto-Indo-Aryan
Unclassified
Bazigar
Chinali–Lahul
Chinali
Lahul Lohar
Sheikhgal
Pidginsand creoles
Andaman Creole Hindi
Bombay Hindi
Haflong Hindi
Nagamese
Nefamese
Vedda
See also
Indo-Iranian languages
Nuristani languages
Iranian languages
vteState of West BengalCapital: KolkataState symbols
Emblem: Emblem of West Bengal
Animal: Fishing cat
Bird: White-throated kingfisher
Flower: Night-flowering jasmine (Shiuli)
Tree: Devil's tree (Saptaparni)
Fish: Ilish
History
Gauda Kingdom
Shashanka
Pala Empire
Sena dynasty
Mallabhum
Cooch Behar State
Sher Shah Suri
Mughal Empire
Nawabs of Bengal and Murshidabad
East India Company
Battle of Plassey
Bengal Presidency
Great Bengal famine of 1770
Indian Rebellion of 1857
Bengali Renaissance
Bardhaman Raj
Nadia Raj
Jhargram Raj
Sovabazar Raj
Partition of Bengal (1905)
Revolutionary movement for Indian independence
Anushilan Samiti
Jugantar
Bengal famine of 1943
Direct Action Day
Noakhali riots
Partition of Bengal (1947)
Bangladesh Liberation War
Naxalite movement
Geography
Bengal Basin
Darjeeling Himalayan hill region
Terai
North Bengal plains
Dooars
Rarh region
Sundarbans
Western plateau and high lands
Ganges Delta
Climate
Sandakphu (Highest point)
Protected areas of West Bengal
Rivers of West Bengal
Ganga
Damodar River
Brahmaputra
Teesta
Hooghly River
Khoai
Tiger Hill, Darjeeling
Siliguri Corridor
Governance
Chief Ministers
Governor
Legislative Assembly
Human Rights Commission
Political parties (All India Trinamool Congress
Communist Party (Marxist)
Indian National Congress
Bharatiya Janata Party)
Parliamentary constituencies
Assembly constituencies
CID West Bengal
Kolkata Police
Rights groups
Matua Mahasangha
Bangla Pokkho
Division and DistrictsBurdwan division
Birbhum
Hooghly
Paschim Bardhaman
Purba Bardhaman
Jalpaiguri division
Alipurduar
Cooch Behar
Darjeeling
Jalpaiguri
Kalimpong
Malda division
Dakshin Dinajpur
Berhampore (declared)
Malda
Murshidabad
Uttar Dinajpur
Medinipur division
Bankura
Bishnupur (declared)
Jhargram
Paschim Medinipur
Purba Medinipur
Purulia
Presidency division
Basirhat (declared)
Howrah
Ichamati (declared)
Kolkata
Nadia
North 24 Parganas
Ranaghat (declared)
Sundarbans (declared)
South 24 Parganas
Cities and towns
Alipore
Asansol
Berhampore
Balurghat
Bankura
Barasat
Bardhaman
Bishnupur
Hugli-Chuchura
Cooch Behar
Darjeeling
Durgapur
Haldia
Howrah
Jalpaiguri
Jaynagar Majilpur
Jiaganj Azimganj
Kalimpong
Kharagpur
Kolkata
Krishnanagar
Kurseong
Malda
Midnapore
Murshidabad
Purulia
Raiganj
Siliguri
Siuri
Tamluk
List of cities in West Bengal by population
Cities and towns by district
Culture
Bengali Renaissance
Bengali calendars
Patachitra
Chalchitra
Arts of West Bengal
Baul
Bhadu
Gombhira
Chhau dance
Cuisine
Rabindra Sangeet
Rabindra Nritya Natya
Holi
Dol Purnima
Prostitution in Kolkata
Pahela Baishakh
Durga Puja
Bhai Phonta
Raksha Bandhan
Ratha Yatra
Architecture of Bengal
Bengal temples
Bengali language
Bengali literature
Feluda
Lalmohan Ganguly
Professor Shonku
Tarini Khuro
Kakababu
Kiriti Roy
Pather Panchali (novel)
Tollywood (Bengali cinema)
Jatra
Ghosts in Bengali culture
GI product
Baluchari sari
Banglar Rosogolla
Bankura horse
Bengal Patachitra
Chhau mask
Darjeeling tea
Dhaniakhali Sari
Dhokra
Fazli (mango)
Gobindobhog
Himsagar
Jaynagarer Moa
Madurkathi
Manasa chali
Mihidana
Nakshi kantha
Santiniketan Leather Goods
Shantipuri sari
Sitabhog
Tulaipanji
Demographics
Bengali people
Bihari people
Economy of West Bengal
Gurkha
Adivasi
Rajbanshi
Anglo-Indian
Ethnic communities in Kolkata
List of West Bengal districts ranked by literacy rate
Anti-Bengali sentiment in India
People
Rabindranath Tagore
Satyajit Ray
Kazi Nazrul Islam
Anil Kumar Gain
Ritwik Ghatak
Subhas Chandra Bose
Jamini Roy
Bidhan Chandra Roy
Jyoti Basu
Nandalal Bose
Jagadish Chandra Bose
Meghnad Saha
Bankim Chandra Chatterjee
Sarat Chandra Bose
Jnanadanandini Devi
Abanindranath Tagore
Satyendranath Tagore
Satyendranath Dutta
Ram Mohan Roy
Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar
Rani Rashmoni
Ramakrishna Paramahamsa
Swami Vivekananda
Sarada Devi
Dwarkanath Tagore
Sukumar Ray
Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury
Lokenath Brahmachari
Michael Madhusudan Dutta
Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay
Sister Nivedita
Mother Teresa
Amartya Sen
Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay
Nihar Ranjan Gupta
Image gallery at Wikimedia Commons
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bengali_language&oldid=1172111774"
Categories: Bengali languageEastern Indo-Aryan languagesLanguages of BangladeshOfficial languages of IndiaSubject–object–verb languagesLanguages of West BengalLanguages of TripuraLanguages of AssamLanguages officially written in Indic scriptsSahitya Akademi recognised languagesLanguages of JharkhandLanguages of BiharHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 22CS1 uses Bengali-language script (bn)CS1 Bengali-language sources (bn)CS1 maint: location missing publisherCS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertaintyArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from July 2022All articles needing additional referencesEngvarB from October 2019Use dmy dates from May 2023Articles containing Bengali-language textArticles with hAudio microformatsLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeISO language articles citing sources other than EthnologueAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2019All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from February 2021Articles with unsourced statements from January 2023Articles needing additional references from January 2023All Wikipedia articles needing clarificationWikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2022Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource referenceArticles with Curlie linksPages using Sister project links with wikidata namespace mismatchPages using Sister project links with wikidata mismatchArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 25 August 2023, at 01:26 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width