The contribution conundrum: Why did Wikipedia succeed while other encyclopedias failed? | Nieman Journalism Lab
Fellowships
Reports
Lab
Storyboard
Nieman Foundation at Harvard
HOME
About
Fuego
Subscribe
Archives
          
Foundation
Reports
Storyboard
LATEST STORYMeet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economy 
Business Models
Mobile & Apps
Audience & Social
Aggregation & Discovery
Reporting & Production
ABOUT                
 
    SUBSCRIBE
Business Models
Mobile & Apps
Audience & Social
Aggregation & Discovery
Reporting & Production
Translations
Fuego
Oct.  12, 2011, noon
The contribution conundrum: Why did Wikipedia succeed while other encyclopedias failed?
“Failed Wikipedias” suggest successful ways to encourage contribution and collaboration.
By Megan Garber
@megangarber
Oct.  12, 2011, noon 
Oct.  12, 2011, noon
The guys behind Wikipedia weren’t the first to experiment with creating a crowd-sourced online encyclopedia. They were just the first ones to do it successfully, on a worldwide scale. 
There were seven collaborative encyclopedias that aspired to Wikipedia-like dimensions before Wikipedia itself came along in early 2001: Interpedia, which ran from late 1993 to mid-1994; The Distributed Encyclopedia (1997-1998); Everything 2 (1998-present); h2g2 (1999-present); The Info Network (2000-2003); Nupedia (2000-2003); and GNUpedia (founded in 2001, and later merging with Nupedia). 
So why did Wikipedia become a worldwide phenomenon, while those others did not? 
Wikipedia succeeded in part because, revolutionary as it was, it also felt familiar.
In a talk yesterday afternoon at Harvard’s Berkman Center, Berkman fellow (and MIT Media Lab/Sloan School of Management researcher) Benjamin Mako Hill presented his research into that question, focusing on what seems to be the key distinguishing success factor: the fact that Wikipedia was able to attract legions of contributors while the others stayed decidedly niche. The encyclopedias were all collaborative efforts built on what Yochai Benkler has called commons-based peer production; so why, ultimately, was Wikipedia able to attract so many more peers to do so much more production? 
One answer, which seems obvious only in retrospect: Wikipedia attracted contributors because it was built around a familiar product — the encyclopedia. Encyclopedias aren’t just artifacts; they’re also epistemic frames. They employ a particular — and, yet, universal — approach to organizing information. Prior to Wikipedia, online encyclopedias tried to do what we tend to think is a good thing when it comes to the web: challenging old metaphors, exploding analog traditions, inventing entirely new forms. 
“I don’t think I conceived of it as like, ‘Let’s just put an encyclopedia online,'” one encyclopedia’s founder told Hill. The attitude, instead, was “this is going to be an exploration, and we’re going to figure out what a reference work online looks like.”
But that approach, web-native and admirable as it was in theory, ended up hindering early encyclopedias’ ability to attract contributors, Hill speculates. Newness isn’t always inviting; Wikipedia succeeded in part because, revolutionary as it was, it also felt familiar. (“If you understand how encyclopedias are written, you basically understand Neutral Point of View,” Hill pointed out.) So a crucial aspect of mobilization is also the most basic: simply getting people on the same page. And common, familiar frames can help with that, Hill said. 
Another intriguing finding: Wikipedia focused on substantive content development instead of technology. Wikipedia was the only project in the entire sample, Hill noted, that didn’t build its own technology. (It was, in fact, generally seen as technologically unsophisticated by other encyclopedias’ founders, who saw themselves more as technologists than as content providers.) GNUpedia, for example, had several people dedicated to building its infrastructure, but none devoted to building its articles. It was all very if you build it, they will come. 
“I had this notion that my job was to provide the platform,” one founder told Hill. The assumption, said another, was that “content was the community’s job. But there was no community.”
Using the simple technology of the wiki allowed Wikipedia’s founders to focus on the encyclopedia’s content — on getting article contributions rather than building technology. Instead of acting as technologists, Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger could instead act as evangelists, Hill pointed out, seeding Wikipedia with content they solicited from contributors — which, in turn, led to more content, and more contributors. There are lots of convincing arguments suggesting that peer production projects succeed because of technology; in encyclopedias’ case, though, it seems that technology actually became a distraction. Leaders needed to be able to take their infrastructure for granted so they could focus on the content that would populate it. 
There are two other key contributors to Wikipedia’s success with attracting contributors, Hill’s research suggests: Wikipedia offered low transaction costs to participation, and it de-emphasized the social ownership of content. Editing Wikipedia is easy, and instant, and virtually commitment-free. “You can come along and do a drive-by edit and never make a contribution again,” Hill pointed out. And the fact that it’s difficult to tell who wrote an article, or who edited it — rather than discouraging contribution, as you might assume — actually encouraged contributions, Hill found. “Low textual ownership resulted in more collaboration,” he put it.
Editing Wikipedia is easy, instant, and virtually commitment-free.
And that could well be because Wikipedia’s authorless structure lowers the pressure some might feel to contribute something stellar. The pull of reputation can discourage contributions even as it can also encourage them. So Wikipedia “took advantage of marginal contributions,” Hill noted — a sentence here, a graf there — which, added up, turned into articles. Which, added up, turned into an encyclopedia.
There’s some good food for thought for news organizations in those findings. If you want user contributions, build platforms that are familiar and easy. Lower the barriers to participation; focus on helping users to understand what you want from them rather than on dazzling them. Though gamification — with incentives that encourage certain user behaviors, complete with individual rewards (badges! titles! mayors!) — certainly has a role to play in the new news ecosystem, Hill’s findings suggest that the inverse of game dynamics can be a powerful force, as well. His research highlights the value of platforms that invite rather than challenge — and the validity of contributions made for the collective good rather than the individual.
Image by Jiheffe used under a Creative Commons license.
POSTED     Oct.  12, 2011, noon
authorshipBenjamin Mako HillBerkman CenterBerkman Center Luncheon Seriescollaborationcommons-based peer productionfailureJimmy WalesNupediaopen sourceWikipedia
Show tagsHide tags
  TWITTER
  FACEBOOK
  EMAIL
  SHARE ON FACEBOOK
  TWEET
authorshipBenjamin Mako HillBerkman CenterBerkman Center Luncheon Seriescollaborationcommons-based peer productionfailureJimmy WalesNupediaopen sourceWikipedia
Show comments  Hide comments
Show tagsHide tags
 
What’s the best way to follow how the news is changing?
Our daily email, with all the freshest future-of-journalism news.
Prefer a once-a-week email? »
Cite this articleHide citations
CLOSE
MLA
Garber, Megan. "The contribution conundrum: Why did Wikipedia succeed while other encyclopedias failed?." Nieman Journalism Lab. Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard, 12 Oct. 2011. Web. 3 Sep. 2023. 
APA
Garber, M. (2011, Oct. 12). The contribution conundrum: Why did Wikipedia succeed while other encyclopedias failed?. Nieman Journalism Lab. Retrieved September 3, 2023, from https://www.niemanlab.org/2011/10/the-contribution-conundrum-why-did-wikipedia-succeed-while-other-encyclopedias-failed/
Chicago
Garber, Megan. "The contribution conundrum: Why did Wikipedia succeed while other encyclopedias failed?." Nieman Journalism Lab. Last modified October 12, 2011.  Accessed September 3, 2023. https://www.niemanlab.org/2011/10/the-contribution-conundrum-why-did-wikipedia-succeed-while-other-encyclopedias-failed/.
Wikipedia
{{cite web
    | url = https://www.niemanlab.org/2011/10/the-contribution-conundrum-why-did-wikipedia-succeed-while-other-encyclopedias-failed/
    | title = The contribution conundrum: Why did Wikipedia succeed while other encyclopedias failed?
    | last = Garber
    | first =  Megan
    | work = [[Nieman Journalism Lab]]
    | date = 12 October 2011
    | accessdate = 3 September 2023
    | ref = {{harvid|Garber|2011}}
}}
The latest from Nieman Lab
Meet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economyHanaa' TameezWith five old phones and some Pew data, the BBC’s Marianna Spring monitors social media from the insideSophie CulpepperThe Texas Tribune’s first-ever layoffs worry the news industrySarah ScireA local WhatsApp newsletter is helping people make the most of a Spanish cityHanaa' TameezMore funding is flowing to local journalism and for-profit newsrooms, study findsSarah Scire
Join the 60,000 who get the freshest future-of-journalism news in our daily email.
Meet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economy“For me, social media is the purest way of doing service journalism.”
With five old phones and some Pew data, the BBC’s Marianna Spring monitors social media from the inside“The reason I have to have undercover voters is because social media sites won’t — and to some extent, can’t — tell you exactly what they’re recommending every single voter.”
The Texas Tribune’s first-ever layoffs worry the news industryFrustration over a lack of transparency has been amplified by the newsroom’s status as “the gold standard of nonprofit journalism” and a role model other outlets have been encouraged to follow.
Hanaa' TameezMeet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economy“For me, social media is the purest way of doing service journalism.”Sophie CulpepperWith five old phones and some Pew data, the BBC’s Marianna Spring monitors social media from the inside“The reason I have to have undercover voters is because social media sites won’t — and to some extent, can’t — tell you exactly what they’re recommending every single voter.”Sarah ScireThe Texas Tribune’s first-ever layoffs worry the news industryFrustration over a lack of transparency has been amplified by the newsroom’s status as “the gold standard of nonprofit journalism” and a role model other outlets have been encouraged to follow.
Subscribe
Twitter
Facebook
RSS
About
Contact
Archives
Encyclo
Fuego
Help advance the Nieman Foundation’s mission “to promote and elevate the standards of journalism” by making a donation.
To promote and elevate the standards of journalism
 
Covering thought leadership in journalism
 
Pushing to the future of journalism
 
Exploring the art and craft of story
 
© 2023 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College  /  Some rights reserved
Harvard Trademark Privacy Digital Accessibility
Walter Lippmann House    One Francis Ave.    Cambridge, MA 02138    617 495 2237
The Nieman Journalism Lab is a collaborative attempt to figure out how quality journalism can survive and thrive in the Internet age.
It’s a project of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University.
Follow us
Subscribe to our email
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Download our iPhone app
Subscribe via RSS
Subscribe to our work →
The basics
About us
Contact
Archives
Projects
Encyclo
Fuego
Tweet archive
About us →
Director
Joshua Benton
Staff writers
Justin Ellis
Caroline O’Donovan
© President and Fellows of Harvard College, unless otherwise noted. Some rights reserved.
 