Wikimedia user groups - Meta
Wikimedia user groups
From Meta, a Wikimedia project coordination wiki
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Translate this page; This page contains changes which are not marked for translation.Other languages:Afrikaans
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Bân-lâm-gú
Chi-Chewa
Deutsch
English
Esperanto
Lëtzebuergesch
Nederlands
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Zazaki
català
dansk
español
euskara
français
galego
hrvatski
italiano
latviešu
lietuvių
magyar
polski
português
português do Brasil
shqip
sicilianu
slovenčina
srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
suomi
svenska
čeština
Ελληνικά
беларуская (тарашкевіца)
български
македонски
русский
српски / srpski
татарча / tatarça
тоҷикӣ
українська
العربية
جازايرية
سنڌي
فارسی
مصرى
अंगिका
नेपाली
मराठी
हिन्दी
বাংলা
ગુજરાતી
ଓଡ଼ିଆ
தமிழ்
తెలుగు
മലയാളം
සිංහල
ไทย
ဖၠုံလိက်
မြန်မာဘာသာ
ქართული
中文
日本語
ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ
한국어
Want to help translate? Translate the missing messages.
Wikimedia user groups are intended to be simple and flexible affiliates with far fewer requirements than chapters and thematic organizations. Even affiliates hoping to become a chapter or thematic organization are not expected to meet the requirements for those affiliate models to apply for Wikimedia user group recognition.
What are Wikimedia user groups?
Existing Wikimedia user groups
Why should we apply?
What are the eligibility requirements?
How do we apply for recognition?
Quick links
Affiliations Committee 
Requirements for future Wikimedia user groups
Rights & Expectations for future Primary Contacts
Affiliates naming guidelines
Affiliates logos best practices
Wikimedia user groups creation guide
Wikimedia user groups in discussion
What are Wikimedia user groups?
Wikimedia user groups are intended to be simple and flexible affiliates that are an alternative to  chapters and thematic organizations - which require more formal requirements. User groups are highly valued as equal players in the Wikimedia movement. They are meant to empower and engage people around the world to collect and develop educational content under a free license or in the public domain, and to disseminate it effectively and globally.
Recognition from the Affiliations Committee allows a group to apply for using the Wikimedia trademarks and to get certain grants; however, recognition is not required to do any of the work typical user groups do or might do, it is an optional extra step with connected benefits and some requirements.
Wikimedia user groups (141)
User groups are open membership groups with an established contact person and history of projects, designed to be easy to form.
ACD AfroCROWD User Group
A+F Art+Feminism
ALB Wikimedia Community User Group Albania
ARE Wikimedians of United Arab Emirates User Group
AZE Azerbaijani Wikimedians User Group
BA-SRP Wikimedians of Republic of Srpska
BAK Wikimedians of Bashkortostan User Group
BAQ Basque Wikimedians User Group
BEN Wikimédiens du Bénin User Group
BLT Black Lunch Table Wikimedians
BOL Wikimedistas de Bolivia User Group
BLR Wikimedia Community User Group Belarus
CEE Wikimedia Community User Group CEE Spring
CMW Wikimedians of Cameroon User Group
CIV Wikimedia Community User Group Côte d'Ivoire
CPH Commons Photographers User Group
COD Wikimedians of Democratic Republic of Congo User Group
DZA Algerian Wikimedians User Group aka WikiDZ
EGY Egypt Wikimedians User Group
ESP-WE Wikiesfera Grupo de Usuarixs
ELiSo Esperanto kaj Libera Scio
EZY Wikimedians of Erzya language User Group
GB-CYM Grŵp Defnyddwyr Cymuned Wicimedia Cymru
GEO Wikimedia Community User Group Georgia
GHA Wikimedia Ghana User Group
GIN Wikimedia Community User Group Guinea Conakry
GMG GLAM Macedonia User Group
GRC Wikimedia Community User Group Greece
HDW Hindi Wikimedians User Group
H-GAPS H-GAPS User Group
HKG Wikimedia Community User Group Hong Kong
HTI Wikimedia Community User Group Haiti
IRL Wikimedia Community Ireland User Group
IRQ Iraqi Wikimedians User Group
IRN Iranian Wikimedians User Group
IN-KL Wikimedians of Kerala User Group
IN-MR Marathi Wikimedians User Group
IN-Tech Wikimedians of India technical user group
JWK Jenga Wikipedia ya Kiswahili
KAZ Wikimedia Community of Kazakh language User Group
KVL Karavali Wikimedians User Group
LGBT Wikimedia LGBT+ User Group
LEV Wikimedians of the Levant User Group
LSP Les sans pagEs User Group
LVA Wikimedians of Latvia User Group
MAR Wikimedia MA User Group
MAI Maithili Wikimedians User Group
MAP Wikimaps User Group
MATH Wikimedia Community User Group Math
MK-SK Shared Knowledge
MLA Muj(lh)eres latinoamericanas en Wikimedia
MLI Wikimedians of Mali User Group
MLT Wikimedia Community User Group Malta
MMR Myanmar Wikimedia Community User Group
MW-SG MediaWiki Stakeholders' Group
MYS Wikimedia Community User Group Malaysia
WNAIL Wikimedians of North American Indigenous Languages User Group
NPL Wikimedians of Nepal
NGA Wikimedia Community User Group Nigeria
NGA-HA Hausa Wikimedians User Group
NGA-IG Igbo Wikimedians User Group
IMD Indic MediaWiki Developers User Group
KWU Kurdish Wikimedians User Group
NGA-YO Yoruba Wikimedians User Group
NWR-Hist North-West Russia Wiki-Historians User Group
NZL Wikimedia User Group of Aotearoa New Zealand
OFWA Open Foundation West Africa
PAN Punjabi Wikimedians User Group
PER Wikimedians of Peru User Group
PH-WC Philippine Wikimedia Community User Group
LKA Wikimedia Community User Group Sri Lanka
ODW Odia Wikimedians User Group
ROU-MDA Wikimedians of Romania and Moldova User Group
RU-Don Don Wikimedians User Group
RU-NC Wikipedians of North Caucasus User Group
SAT Wikimedians of Santali Language User Group
STE Wikimedia Stewards User Group
SQI Wikimedians of Albanian Language User Group
SUD Wikimedia Community User Group Sudan
SVK Wikimedians of Slovakia User Group
SVN Wikipedians of Slovenia User Group
TAT Wikimedia Community of Tatar language User Group
TUN Wikimedia TN User Group
TUR Wikimedia Community User Group Turkey
TRK Wikimedians of Turkic Languages User Group
TWG Tremendous Wiktionary User Group
TZA Wikimedia Community User Group Tanzania
TZM Wikimedians of Tamazight User Group
UGA Wikimedia Community User Group Uganda
US-CAS Cascadia Wikimedians User Group
US-GAP Georgia Piedmont Wikimedians User Group
US-LA Wikimedians of Los Angeles User Group
US-NC North Carolina Wikipedians User Group
US-NE New England Wikimedians
US-OH Ohio Wikimedians User Group
US-SAN San Diego Wikimedians User Group
VNM Vietnam Wikimedians User Group
WAM Wikipedia Asian Month User Group
WKB Wikibase Community User Group
WBL WikiBlind User Group
WBG West Bengal Wikimedians User Group
WKC Wiki Cemeteries User Group
WCS WikiClassics User Group
WDG WikiDonne User Group
WGR Wikigrannies User Group
WGU Wikimujeres Grupo de Usuarias
WIS Wikimedians of the Caribbean User Group
WKJ WikiJournal
WK? Whose Knowledge?
WNA WikiConference North America
W&E Wikipedia & Education User Group
WMB Grupo de Usuários Wiki Movimento Brasil
WOW Wikimedians for Offline Wikis User Group
WPL Wikimedia and Libraries User Group
WREN Wikimedians in Residence Exchange Network User Group
WSC Wikisource Community User Group
WSD Wikimedians for Sustainable Development
WAL Wikimedians of Western Armenian Language User Group
WKT Wikitongues User Group
WWH Wiki World Heritage User Group
WUL Wikimedians of the Uzbek language User Group
WDU Wikimedistas de Uruguay
WKW WikiWomen's User Group
DWU Dagbani Wikimedians User Group
AWUG Arabic Wikimedians User Group
WSP Wikimedia Small Projects in Spanish User Group
PWU Paiwan Wikimedians User Group
RU-SPU Wikimedia Community of Saint Petersburg User Group
DCW Deoband Community Wikimedia User Group
GWU Gungbe Wikimedians User Group
RWA Wikimedia Community User Group Rwanda
WIR Women in Religion User Group
TWU Tyap Wikimedians User Group
LAG Wikimedians of Lagos User Group
KAS Kashmiri Wikimedians User Group
WCK Wikimedia Community User Group Kenya
SWU Saudi Wikimedia User Group
PH-ADV Wiki Advocates Philippines User Group
TGO Wikimedia Community User Group Togo
TJK Tajik Wikimedians User Group
US-IN Wikimedians of Indiana User Group
Why should we apply?
Recognition from the Affiliations Committee allows a group to apply for using the Wikimedia trademarks and to get certain grants; however, recognition is not required to do any of the work typical user groups do or might do, it is an optional extra step with connected benefits and some requirements.
Benefits of becoming a recognized Wikimedia user group includes:
Use the Wikimedia logos consistent with the Wikimedia Foundation's Trademark Policy without any additional approval. User groups may use other logos not part of the Trademark Policy (such as the Wikimedia Foundation logo) pursuant to a trademark license with the Wikimedia Foundation and approval by the Wikimedia Foundation legal team.
Receive large, but limited, quantities of Wikimedia merchandise for use in activities and outreach efforts.
Public recognition of the group's affiliation with the Wikimedia Foundation.
Affiliations Committee Liaison support during and after the approval process.
One scholarship to attend the Wikimedia Conference, held annually in Berlin for Wikimedia movement affiliates.
Without recognition, groups may still:
Engage in group activities to promote, build, and support the Wikimedia movement and its projects.
Utilize the Wikimedia Community logo.
Request one-time use of Wikimedia logos consistent with the Wikimedia Foundation's Trademark Policy pursuant to a trademark license with the Wikimedia Foundation and approval by the Wikimedia Foundation legal team.
Apply for Project & Event Grants, Individual Engagement Grants, and Travel & Participation Support grants.
What are the eligibility requirements?
Main page: Wikimedia user groups/Requirements 
Wikimedia user groups are intended to be simple and flexible affiliates with far fewer requirements than chapters and thematic organizations. Even affiliates hoping to become a chapter or thematic organization are not expected to meet the requirements for those affiliate models to apply for Wikimedia user group recognition.
The requirements to set up an officially recognized Wikimedia user group are meant to be light-weight and easy to follow.
Three active Wikimedia editorsWhile it is recommended that user groups have about 10 members, it is required that at least 3 members are active with 500 or more contributions to a Wikimedia project (in the case of Wikidata: 800 or more edits) in a year preceding the application on a registered account that has existed for at least 6 months. These active members must be in good community standing (meaning they are not currently suspended or otherwise prevented from participating). While user groups should welcome the input of people who are not active contributors to the Wikimedia projects, and are required to allow new members to join, they should not stray too far from the community. An active involvement of contributors to the Wikimedia projects is necessary to enable a user group to bring its real-life initiatives to life in the Wikimedia projects.
Agree to Wikimedia user group agreement and code of conduct Your group must agree to the Wikimedia user group agreement and code of conduct - which outlines basic expectations of Wikimedia user groups, such as on-wiki documentation of activities, operating within Wikimedia guiding principles, and compliance with the Trademark policy. When you submit your application, you will be asked to agree to both the Wikimedia user group agreement and code of conduct.
If your user group application is not able to meet these criteria you are still welcome to apply but we would like to have a small motivation on why you think these criteria are not important to your initiative. Please address these two questions in your motivation
How would your user group contribute to the mission of the Wikimedia Movement
How does the background of the founding members contribute to the success of your user group
Examples of applications that could have good reasons for not meeting the criteria are things like research groups or other initiatives which do not require you to be an active contributor.
Please be aware that if you do not meet the three criteria outlined above, the Affiliations Committee will need more time to discuss your application (and hopefully approve it), this might also involve some more communication with the founding members of the user group application, so please watch your inbox for mails on this topic so that you can respond to them quickly.
How do we apply for recognition?
Main page: Wikimedia user groups/Creation guide 
Once you've gathered the group, the wiki page, and the big ideas on what you want to do, visit the Wikimedia user group application page and apply for recognition. The Affiliations Committee may ask you some questions, review your application, and if appropriate will submit them to the Wikimedia Foundation to recognize your group as an official Wikimedia User Group.  Initial recognition is normally for one year, and is then reviewed.  Recognition can be suspended or removed if necessary if a group becomes inactive.
Delays during the application approval process most often arise from incomplete applications or applications that need to be modified before they can be approved. To prevent this from happening and help expedite your group's approval process, please double check this list before submitting your application:
Does your name meet the affiliates naming requirements? Group discussions amongst Wikimedia user groups regarding their name can take time, and generally you want to avoid having to re-engage in that conversation after your application has been submitted. You may contact the Affiliations Committee to seek input on your name before submitting your application.
Does your group have a clear scope and purpose that is consistently and clearly explained? If your Meta page explains your user group in a way that differs from your application, and if those differ from the activities your group is undertaking - that may delay the application's approval as a clear scope and purpose is required for the resolution to approve the user group and the user group agreement which the two primary contacts will be signing with the Wikimedia Foundation. Your scope and purpose statement should clearly and concisely explain what your group hopes to accomplish and who would be interested in joining. We recognize this may evolve over time, but you should have a clear commitment to a specific statement at the time of your application.
Are your two primary contacts willing to identify themselves with the Wikimedia Foundation? Sometimes privacy concerns might cause someone to change their minds, which can delay the final steps in the user group recognition process.
Is your group ready to accept new members and already include at least three Wikimedia editors in good standing? Groups which have a closed or limited membership model may require more discussion and review. Groups which do not have at least three active members who are also active Wikimedia editors in good standing will not be approved.
Are your designated leaders and group as a whole willing to follow the Wikimedia user group agreement and code of conduct? All leaders who are named on the application must agree prior to the application being sent. Applicants found to be violating the agreement or code of conduct will not be approved, and existing Wikimedia user groups found to be violating the agreement or code of conduct may have their affiliation status rescinded.
vteAffiliations Committee portal
Charter
Members
Resolutions
News
MassMessages
Requests for Comments
Reports
Noticeboard
Movement affiliates
Affiliate resources
Movement affiliates portal
Frequently asked questions
Organizational development
Affiliates mailing list
Logo best practices
Naming guidelines
Chapters
Chapters portal
Talk
Noticeboard
Requirements
Creation guide
Bylaw Guidelines
Chapters agreement
Thematic organisations
Thematic organisations portal
Talk
Noticeboard
Requirements
Creation guide
Bylaw Guidelines
Thematic organisation agreement
Wikimedia user groups
Wikimedia user groups portal
Talk
Noticeboard
Requirements
Creation guide
Apply
Agreement and code of conduct
AffCom Member Expectations
Rules of Procedure
Standards of participation
Internal process on spending
Other links
Annual Report
Pipeline
Private wiki
mailing list
Wikimedia affiliation models
Principles
Become a member!
Contact us
By e-mail affcomlists.wikimedia.org
Twitter: @WikimediaAffCom
IRC: #wikimedia-affcomconnect
Retrieved from "https://meta.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikimedia_user_groups&oldid=25539528"
Categories: Affiliations committeeWikimedia User Groups
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Content pageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageWikimedia NewsTranslationsRecent changesRandom pageHelpBabel
Community
Wikimedia Resource CenterWikimedia ForumMailing listsRequestsBabylonReportsResearchPlanet Wikimedia
Beyond the Web
Meet WikimediansEventsMovement affiliatesDonate
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
In other languages
Add links
 This page was last edited on 30 August 2023, at 18:17.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Privacy policy
About Meta
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement