Elementary Particle Physics Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Elementary Particle Physics12,162 FollowersRecent papers in Elementary Particle PhysicsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeople(MUTM - version 1.0 - 20.04.2021 - 2 A4 pages without references) A proposed Modular Universe toy-model (MUTM) predicting all elementary particles to be quantum black-holes (gravitational quasi-singularities) governed by self-gravity and self-antigravityThis paper proposes a Modular Universe toy-model (MUTM) predicting all elementary particles (EPs) to be actually quantum black-holes (QBHs) (gravitational quasi-singularities) governed by self-gravity and self-antigravity. This paper... moreThis paper proposes a Modular Universe toy-model (MUTM) predicting all elementary particles (EPs) to be actually quantum black-holes (QBHs) (gravitational quasi-singularities) governed by self-gravity and self-antigravity. This paper continues (from an alternative angle of view) the work of other past articles/preprints of the same author in physics (cited in anti-chronological order, from the latest to the oldest.#DONATIONS. Anyone can donate for dr. Dragoi’s independent research and original music at: https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=AQYGGDVDR7KH2Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrei Lucian  Drăgoi (Dragoi)•  20  Mathematical Physics, Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle PhysicsA Spiral Structure for Elementary ParticlesIn this paper we have tried to deduce the possible origin of particle and evolution of their intrinsic properties through spiral dynamics. We consider some of the observations which include exponential mass function of particles following... moreIn this paper we have tried to deduce the possible origin of particle and evolution of their intrinsic properties through spiral dynamics. We consider some of the observations which include exponential mass function of particles following a sequence when fitted on logarithmic potential spiral, inwardly rotating spiral dynamics in Reaction-Diffusion System, the separation of Electron’s Spin-Charge-Orbit into quasi-particles. The paper brings a picture of particles and their Anti Particles in spiral form and explains how the difference in structure varies their properties. It also explains the effects on particles in Accelerator deduced through spiral dynamics.Save to LibraryDownloadby SURAJ KUMAR•  20  Engineering Physics, Applied Mathematics, Computational Physics, Condensed Matter PhysicsPHYSICS FIND “ONE GOD FOR ALL ” IN UNITY OF THE GOD PARTICLE AND THE GOD CREATION FIELD IN UNIVERSESave to LibraryDownloadby laode masykur•  49  Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Mathematical Physics, Logic And Foundations Of Mathematicsf(R) gravity: scalar perturbations in the late UniverseIn this paper we study scalar perturbations of the metric for nonlinear f(R) models. We consider the Universe at the late stage of its evolution and deep inside the cell of uniformity. We investigate the astrophysical approach in the case... moreIn this paper we study scalar perturbations of the metric for nonlinear f(R) models. We consider the Universe at the late stage of its evolution and deep inside the cell of uniformity. We investigate the astrophysical approach in the case of Minkowski spacetime background and two cases in the cosmological approach, the large scalaron mass approximation and the quasi-static approximation, getting explicit expressions for scalar perturbations for both these cases. In the most interesting quasi-static approximation, the scalar perturbation functions depend on both the nonlinearity function f(R) and the scale factor a. Hence, we can study the dynamical behavior of the inhomogeneities (e.g., galaxies and dwarf galaxies) including into consideration their gravitational attraction and the cosmological expansion, and also taking into account the effects of nonlinearity. Our investigation is valid for functions f(R) which have stable de Sitter points in future with respect to the present tim...Save to LibraryDownloadby Александр Жук•  20  Field Theory, Computational Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, General RelativityLight Is Not a Particle or a WaveMy Intention is to answer Science and not to confuse that same. When you think about it and how fast light travels, 186282 miles per second or 299792 kilometers per second, it makes me thing like how you explain that speed and origin of... moreMy Intention is to answer Science and not to confuse that same. When you think about it and how fast light travels, 186282 miles per second or 299792 kilometers per second, it makes me thing like how you explain that speed and origin of it. Or What is force behind so called Photons to cause exhilaration or Particle. If Sun being Spring of Light that means Sun’s pulsing or Vibration also should be the same or greater in Frequency in all directions in order to send Light Particles around and at those speeds. If not, well how does Photon exhilarate to that speed and what is force behind it. How far does it travel and glove? This is another question of importance.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bogdan Majkic•  10  Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, EducationThe Hilbert Book Model Project surveyThis survey treats the Hilbert Book Model Project. The project concerns a well-founded, purely mathematical model of physical reality. The project relies on the conviction that physical reality owns its own kind of mathematics and that... moreThis survey treats the Hilbert Book Model Project. The project concerns a well-founded, purely mathematical model of physical reality. The project relies on the conviction that physical reality owns its own kind of mathematics and that this mathematics guides and restricts the extension of the foundation to more complicated levels of the structure and the behavior of physical reality. This results in a model that more and more resembles the physical reality that humans can observe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hans  van Leunen•  18  Number Theory, Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, Lattice TheoryInvisible Higgs decays and neutrino physicsSave to LibraryDownloadby Jose W F Valle•  10  Mathematical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, Particle PhysicsSystematic Investigations of the Free Fermionic Heterotic String Gauge Group Statistics: Layer 1 ResultsUsing software under development at Baylor University, we explicitly construct all layer 1 gauge, weakly coupled free fermionic heterotic string models up to order 22 in four large space-time dimensions. The gauge models consist primarily... moreUsing software under development at Baylor University, we explicitly construct all layer 1 gauge, weakly coupled free fermionic heterotic string models up to order 22 in four large space-time dimensions. The gauge models consist primarily of gauge content making a systematic construction process efficient. We present an overview of the model building procedure, redundancies in the process, methods used to reduce such redundancies and statistics regarding the occurrence of various combinations of gauge group factors and GUT groups. Statistics for both N=4 and N=0 models are presented.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gerald B Cleaver•  4  Elementary Particle Physics, String Theory, Theoretical Particle Physics, Gauge Theories, Quantum Field TheoryHadronic cross sections in electron-positron annihilation with tagged photonSave to LibraryDownloadby Andrej Arbuzov•Elementary Particle PhysicsOn the Time Variation of Fundamental ConstantsWe will define the mass of an electron in the context of Weinberg's empirical formula that relates the mass of a pion to fundamental physical constants, namely the gravitational and Planck constants, the speed of light in vacuum and the... moreWe will define the mass of an electron in the context of Weinberg's empirical formula that relates the mass of a pion to fundamental physical constants, namely the gravitational and Planck constants, the speed of light in vacuum and the Hubble constant. After redefining the Weinberg formula to apply for electrons instead of pions we will add density parameters, used in modern Cosmology, to the Hubble constant in an attempt to persevere the universality of free fall which is one of the corner stones of General Relativity. Universality of free fall is not violated if fundamental physical constants do not vary with time which will be demonstrated in the aforementioned empirical formula for the electron mass and thus, subsequently the proton-to-electron mass ratio, the fine structure constant as well as for the gravitational constant.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikola Perkovic•  11  Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum PhysicsAbout Beta DecayContemporary physics states that an electron neutrino takes part in all events of beta decay. Here we show that electron-positron pairs participate in all beta decay events. For this reason, the hypothesis of electron neutrino presence is... moreContemporary physics states that an electron neutrino takes part in all events of beta decay. Here we show that electron-positron pairs participate in all beta decay events. For this reason, the hypothesis of electron neutrino presence is not necessary in β¯, β + and electron capture reactions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ilgaitis Prusis•  15  Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Philosophy, Particle PhysicsIl bosone di Higgs e i settori oscuri dell'universoChe cos’è il bosone di Higgs? Qual è il suo ruolo all’interno della fisica delle particelle? Perché il 4 luglio 2012 rimarrà una data memorabile nella storia della fisica fondamentale e, in generale, della scienza? Esiste il bosone di... moreChe cos’è il bosone di Higgs? Qual è il suo ruolo all’interno della fisica delle particelle? Perché il 4 luglio 2012 rimarrà una data memorabile nella storia della fisica fondamentale e, in generale, della scienza? Esiste il bosone di Higgs? Chi e perché ha deciso di chiamarlo col nome evocativo di “particella di Dio”? Il libro affronta e risponde a queste e altre domande ricostruendo la storia dell’origine dell’idea che sta alla base dell’ipotesi del bosone di Higgs e che si pensa fornisca la massa a tutte le particelle, fino alla cronaca dei nostri giorni. Molto suggestiva è la possibilità che esista una relazione tra il bosone di Higgs e i settori oscuri dell’Universo, materia ed energia oscura, argomento che unisce la fisica delle particelle alla cosmologia e che verrà trattato nella parte finale del libro.  Indice:PrefazioneIntroduzione1. Un giorno d’?estate memorabile2. Come nasce l’?idea del bosone di Higgs?3. Il Modello Standard4. Cenni alla fisica di Higgs5. I settori oscuri dell’?Universo 6. Higgs e la materia oscura7. Higgs e l’?energia oscura 8. Bosone di Higgs, supersimmetria e cosmologiaConclusioniBibliografiaGlossarioBreve cronologia del bosone di Higgs Nota sull'AutoreStefano Sello, fisico teorico, è attualmente ricercatore senior presso l’Unità Modelli Matematici e Fisici del Centro Ingegneria e Ricerca di Pisa. Si occupa principalmente di modellistica matematica e di metodologie numeriche avanzate per la caratterizzazione dei sistemi dinamici complessi e l’analisi dei segnali. Ha collaborato con il Goddard Space Flight Center della NASA e con l’Università di Harvard per la caratterizzazione dell’attività solare; con l’Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare, in ricerche nel campo dell’astrofisica nucleare, sulla modulazione magnetica del flusso dei neutrini solari. Si occupa correntemente di ricerche nel campo della fisica solare e delle nuove frontiere della cosmologia contemporanea (materia oscura ed energia oscura). Con Libreriauniversitaria.it Edizioni ha pubblicato Catastrofi Stellari (2011).Save to LibraryDownloadby Libreriauniversitaria.it Edizioni•  7  Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Particle PhysicsConstraining N = 1 supergravity inflationary framework with non-minimal Kähler operatorsIn this paper we will illustrate how to constrain unavoidable Kähler corrections for N = 1 supergravity (SUGRA) inflation from the recent Planck data. We will show that the non-renormalizable Kähler operators will induce in general... moreIn this paper we will illustrate how to constrain unavoidable Kähler corrections for N = 1 supergravity (SUGRA) inflation from the recent Planck data. We will show that the non-renormalizable Kähler operators will induce in general non-minimal kinetic term for the inflaton field, and two types of SUGRA corrections in the potential — the Hubbleinduced mass (cH), and the Hubble-induced A-term (aH) correction. The entire SUGRA inflationary framework can now be constrained from (i) the speed of sound, cs, and (ii) from the upper bound on the tensor to scalar ratio, r⋆. We will illustrate this by considering a heavy scalar degree of freedom at a scale, Ms, and a light inflationary field which is responsible for a slow-roll inflation. We will compute the corrections to the kinetic term and the potential for the light field explicitly. As an example, we will consider a visible sector inflationary model of inflation where inflation occurs at the point of inflection, which can match the dens...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sayantan Choudhury•  20  Elementary Particle Physics, General Relativity, High Energy Cosmology, CMB ForegroundsExpérience SuperNEMO : étude du vieillissement de photodétecteursSave to LibraryDownloadby boukhari amar•  2  Elementary Particle Physics, Nuclear PhysicsQuantum-Vortex Electron Formed From Superluminal Double-Helix Photon in Electron-Positron Pair ProductionA superluminal quantum-vortex model of the electron and the positron is produced from a superluminal double-helix model of the photon during electron-positron pair production. The two oppositely-charged (with Q = ±e sqrt (2/α) = 16.6e)... moreA superluminal quantum-vortex model of the electron and the positron is produced from a superluminal double-helix model of the photon during electron-positron pair production. The two oppositely-charged (with Q = ±e sqrt (2/α) = 16.6e) open-helix spin-½ half-photons compose the double-helix photon. These half-photons separate and curl up their separated superluminal single-helical trajectories to form an electrically-charged superluminal closed-helix spin-½ quantum-vortex electron model and a corresponding positron model. The helical radius and the Dirac equation's zitterbewegung angular frequency of the quantum vortex electron and positron models equal the helical radius and zitterbewegung angular frequency of the two spin-½ half-photons, each of energy E = mc^2 , that composed the double-helix photon model of energy E = 2mc^2 from which the electron and positron models were produced. The photon and electron models are also compatible when a photon of energy E > 2mc^2 produces a relativistic electron-positron pair. Implications of the quantum vortex electron model for electron stability are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard Gauthier•  146  Electrical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Engineering Physics, Mathematical PhysicsOscilação dos sabores de NeutrinosA oscilação dos sabores de neutrinos é um fenômeno descrito pela mecânica quântica que informa como um neutrino criado com um determinado sabor pode alterá-lo ao longo do seu percurso. A probabilidade de medirmos um sabor de neu-trino... moreA oscilação dos sabores de neutrinos é um fenômeno descrito pela mecânica quântica que informa como um neutrino criado com um determinado sabor pode alterá-lo ao longo do seu percurso. A probabilidade de medirmos um sabor de neu-trino (eletrônico, tauônico ou muônico) varia entre os três tipos de estados, conforme a partícula se propaga através do espaço. A matemática por trás desse fenômeno foi desenvolvida por Bruno Pontecorvo em 1957, tal que suas previsões teóricas foram comprovadas experimentalmente apenas cerca de quarenta anos depois, pelos experimentos Super-Kamiokande (SK) e Sudbury Neutrino Observatory (SNO). Uma das principais consequências desse fenômeno foi a descoberta de que os neutrinos possuem massa, o que não é previsto pelo Modelo Padrão. Com isso, os físicos de partículas buscam descobrir qual mecanismo seria responsável por originar a massa dos neutrinos, dando origem a novas teorias físicas que vão além do Modelo Padrão. Atualmente, experimentos estudando a oscilação de neutrinos são apontados como uma importante ferramenta para o estudo de objetos astrofísicos e abrem caminho à discussão de uma possível violação da simetria CP originada por neutrinos e anti-neutrinos, que poderia explicar porque há mais matéria do que anti-matéria no universo.Save to LibraryDownloadby Amanda Guerrieri Melchior•  4  Elementary Particle Physics, Particle Physics, Theoretical Particle Physics, Experimental Nuclear and Particle PhysicsTHE IMPACTS OF NATIONAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY FUNDING IN THE UK: A PUBLIC MANAGEMENT EVALUATION SUMMARYThis Impact Report identifies and summarises the diverse impacts, resulting from the £500m of UK funding of Science and Technology in 2013, using numerous quantitative metrics and short case study extracts. It shows how the varied... moreThis Impact Report identifies and summarises the diverse impacts, resulting from the £500m of UK funding of Science and Technology in 2013, using numerous quantitative metrics and short case study extracts.  It shows how the varied impacts of a national science and technology organization and its many funded programmes can be annually identified, captured, tracked, and summarised in a public document. The report was produced for, and by, the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) -  the UK Research Council responsible for funding: (1) all UK astronomy, particle and nuclear physics research, (2) related UK science and technology facilities (e.g. as Harwell and Daresbury), (3) the UK contribution to international science (e.g. CERN, international telescopes and space missions), (4) innovation and business spin-off programmes, and (5) UK public engagement activities. The Report was co-researched and co-authored by the STFC Impact Team, including myself while Impact Evaluation Manager in 2013, with Dr. Claire Dougan-McCallie (lead author/Head of Impact) and Jenny Beard, with additional input from senior managers, and many data and case study contributions from other key managers across STFC.  Varied key impacts are identified and reported including: • Research amongst the best (by citation impact) in astronomy, nuclear and particle physics. • Supported research of 226 Principal Investigators in 70 universities, led to 1,100 peer-reviewed papers in 2012.• Facilities (the Diamond Light Source, ISIS and CLF) were used in 2012/13 by over 4,200 unique users , in over 2,400 experiments, producing over 1,000 papers in peer-reviewed journals. • Technology from CERN benefited the UK economy by over £100 billion every year. • Funding the development of the UK’s space, internet and computer animation industries, returned over £500 billion to the UK economy per annum.• Funded Innovation Campuses hosted over 230 enterprises and supported over 5,000 jobs. • UK industry won £43 million in contracts from the international subscriptions funded, and had accumulated a total of £150 million since 2005.  • Funded research inspired future generations to study STEM subjects, attracting 90% of UK undergraduates to study physics, funded 782 PhD students  and 16,800 student training days.• Between 2009 to 2012 public engagement programmes engaged people on 58 million occasions, with 2 million people engaged in face-to-face activities in 2013 alone.Save to LibraryDownloadby Trevor Wren BSc MA MPhil PhD MBA•  596  Entrepreneurship, Management, Engineering, Electrical EngineeringSpace & Time and Intro to Relativity of Consciousness.pdfA description of new particles for space and time. While the chronon is a superluminal, acoustic fracton, the space particle is a ten dimensional, superliminal, acoustic phonon of deva life. Space is analogous to an ocean of water without... moreA description of new particles for space and time. While the chronon is a superluminal, acoustic fracton, the space particle is a ten dimensional, superliminal, acoustic phonon of deva life. Space is analogous to an ocean of water without a lattice structure in and of itself. Like the photon, the space phonon experiences squeezed coherent states. The phase-squeezed state is what permits ‘universes within universes’ or multiverse. The apparent space-time curvature, as noted by Einstein’s equations, is actually the movement of the chronon fracton lattice.Save to LibraryDownloadby Madonna-Megara Holloway•  23  Elementary Particle Physics, Metaphysics, Cosmology (Physics), Particle PhysicsSolar Group Geometrical StructureAbstract - The rate 1.0725 is found frequently between many solar planets orbital and internal distances (a constant rate) - I suggest this rate is found because of Lorentz Contraction Phenomenon i.e. - There's a difference in... moreAbstract -The rate 1.0725 is found frequently between many solar planets orbital and internal distances (a constant rate) -I suggest this rate is found because of Lorentz Contraction Phenomenon i.e. -There's a difference in velocities = "light velocity" between 2 motions in the solar group (even if we can't measure or notice this velocities difference) i.e. There's More Than One Frame In The Solar GroupThis paper suggests a clear argument as following: 1.The solar group is created by light beams, but we see these light beams in different forms (as matters and distances) 2.We see the light as matter (Specifically, bright fringes produced by light coherence we see as matters, where dark fringes we see as distances)3.We see bright fringes as matters because our mind works by light velocity (Mind Thinking Process), so the whole matter around us is found because of the human mind effect. 4.to enable us to see the sun rays, Earth has to move with light velocity relative to the sun, to create a difference in velocities = c velocity 5.So, the sun creation depends on the difference in Earth and Sun motions = c velocity. 6.That's why Lorentz contraction phenomenon is seen in the solar orbital and internal distances, specifically with the constant rate = 1.0725, (which equals 7.25%), where the sun obliquity to ecliptic (7.25 degrees).7.means, the sun creation process contains Lorentz Phenomenon Effect on the solar orbital and internal distances (and on many other values)   8.The Distance can be defined as "A Form Of Energy", which is proved by the moon orbit regression yearly 19 degrees (Metonic Cycle) (otherwise how distance can move?) (that supports the claim that, distances are dark fringes produced by light coherence) This Paper Consists Of 2 Parts 1st Part     : Theory Of Matter Creation 2nd Part    : Application on the theory (the solar group creation from the light)  Starting From The Solar Group First EnergyExplaining The Energy Coherence (light coherence) Discovering The Matter Creation Providing The Solar Group Motions Harmony ReasonsSave to LibraryDownloadby Gerges Tawadrous•  59  Engineering Physics, Mathematical Physics, Physics, Theoretical PhysicsA Topological Quantum Field Theory of Particle Formation by Geometric QuantizationThis paper presents a low dimensional topological approach to the formation of different Quantum Particles by Geometric Quantization of the energy excited localized harmonic oscillation of the field. Establishing a single function for... moreThis paper presents a low dimensional topological approach to the formation of different Quantum Particles by Geometric Quantization of the energy excited localized harmonic oscillation of the field. Establishing a single function for both Bosons and Fermions. Further derived, is the formulation for calculating physical properties, such as mass and size which coincides with the known experimental values. As a natural consequence, Strong and Weak nuclear forces manifest as higher order Electromagnetic force, moving closer towards unification and leading to possibilities for further higher order forces. Physical interpretation of De-Broglie Wavelength, Compton Wavelength, Wave-Particle Duality, Quantum Spin and particle’s internal structure are established along with explanation for phenomena like Quantum Locking and Neutrino Oscillation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sudipta Chaudhury•  20  Mathematical Physics, Geometric Topology, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle PhysicsMecánica electromagnética de las partículas elementales 2a ediciónDescripción de una geometría del espacio tiempo que permite representar la inducción mutua de la energía eléctrica y de la energía magnética dentro de las partículas elementales en movimiento con arreglo a las ecuaciones de Maxwell. Esta... moreDescripción de una geometría del espacio tiempo que permite representar la inducción mutua de la energía eléctrica y de la energía magnética dentro de las partículas elementales en movimiento con arreglo a las ecuaciones de Maxwell. Esta nueva geometría llama la atención al hecho de que algo de energía cinética adiabática es continuamente inducida en las partículas elementales cautivas dentro de las estructuras atómicas, que es vinculada a un efecto de variación axial de la masa respecto a la intensidad local del gradiente gravitacional, que echa una luz totalmente nueva sobre la gravitación, porque puede ser demostrado que estos estados de equilibrio electromagnético de mínima acción determinan también la intensidad local del gradiente gravitacional además de determinar los estados orbitales de resonancia revelados por la mecánica cuántica. Esta obra explora los fundamentos de una mecánica electromagnética de las partículas elementales cuyas leyes se aplican por estructura a los niveles submicroscópico, macroscópico y astronómico, permitiendo así reconciliar el electromagnetismo, la mecánica cuántica, la mecánica relativista y la gravitación.Save to LibraryDownloadby André Michaud•  3  Electromagnetism, Elementary Particle Physics, GravitationSemiconductorDoping is the process of adding impurities to intrinsic semiconductors to alter their properties. Normally Trivalent and Pentavalent elements are used to dope Silicon and Germanium. When an intrinsic semiconductor is doped with Trivalent... moreDoping is the process of adding impurities to intrinsic semiconductors to alter their properties. Normally Trivalent and Pentavalent elements are used to dope Silicon and Germanium. When an intrinsic semiconductor is doped with Trivalent impurity it becomes a P-Type semiconductor.Save to LibraryDownloadby Malik Muhammad Hassan Askari•  3  Elementary Particle Physics, Semiconductor Physics, Materials Science and EngineeringGeorgi-Glashow SU(5) modelThis chapter gives a review of the Georgi-Glashow SU(5) model by emphasizing the mathematical aspects of model building and comparing its theoretical predictions with experimental results (e.g. fermion mass relations, charge quantisation,... moreThis chapter gives a review of the Georgi-Glashow SU(5) model by emphasizing the mathematical aspects of model building and comparing its theoretical predictions with experimental results (e.g. fermion mass relations, charge quantisation, Weinberg angle, proton decay). The non-supersymmetric SU(5) model is not sufficient to overcome all obstacles, however, the model is perfectly suited for learning the mathematical tools of grand unification model building. The computations are presented throughout in a detailed form which is possibly rarely found in other sources.Save to LibraryDownloadby Konstantin Rips•  8  Mathematical Physics, Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics3 Dimensional String TheoryThis paper examines the possibility to origin the spontaneously broken symmetries from the Planck distribution law. In this way we get for example a unification of the strong, electromagnetic and weak interactions from the interference... moreThis paper examines the possibility to origin the spontaneously broken symmetries from the Planck distribution law. In this way we get for example a unification of the strong, electromagnetic and weak interactions from the interference occurrences of oscillators.Save to LibraryDownloadby George Rajna•  6  Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Thermodynamics, Particle PhysicsEmpédocles, Aristóteles e os ElementosRESUMO : Queremos levantar algumas questões referentes à tese que trata do materialismo de Empédocles a partir da ideia de elemento. O termo “elemento” não aparece no poema, por isso, a primeira questão é se faz realmente sentido falar de... moreRESUMO : Queremos levantar algumas questões referentes à tese que trata do materialismo de Empédocles a partir da ideia de elemento. O termo “elemento” não aparece no poema, por isso, a primeira questão é se faz realmente sentido falar de “elemento” na física de Empédocles. Observemos, paralelamente, que a ideia de elemento tem pelo menos duas leituras possíveis, e ambas podem ser encontradas no primeiro livro da Metafísica de Aristóteles: uma leitura de caráter temporal, que encontramos na sua definição (983b 6-11), outra de caráter mais geométrico que aparece na apresentação dos atomistas e faz analogia com as letras do alfabeto (985b 15-19). Esta outra aparece também no tratado De Generatione et Corruptione (315b9-15) em que os interlocutores de Aristóteles são os pensadores itálicos – e particularmente Empédocles e os atomistas. A crítica que Aristóteles fará às contestações de Empédocles quanto à realidade da geração e corrupção, porque este diz que não há nascimento nem morte, mas tão somente mistura e crase (DK 31 B8), é toda baseada em uma concepção da subsistência ou não da essência (οὐσία). Além das alterações de ordem qualitativa, quantitativa e espacial, que podem ser explicadas segundo as teorias das diferenças de composição elementar dos atomistas, Aristóteles requer também a compreensão de uma alteração mais radical da forma, quando um corpo inteiro deixa de ser isto que ele é ou vem a ser de algo que ele não era. Nesta visada, Empédocles seria, para Aristóteles, um pensador que pouco difere dos atomistas. Para os Atomistas, e para Empédocles, assim como também para os Eleatas, não há realmente geração e corrupção. PALAVRAS CHAVE: Empédocles, elemento, pré-socráticos, Aristóteles, matériaABSTRACT: We want to raise some issues about the Aristotelian thesis of Empedocles’ materialism based from the idea of element. The term "element" does not appear in the poem, so the first question is whether it really makes sense to speak of "elements" in the physics of Empedocles. I Observe, in parallel, that the idea of element has at least two possible readings, and both can be found in the first book of Aristotle's Metaphysics: a reading considering time, which we find in its definition (983b 6-11), and another reading considering space appearing in the presentation of atomistic philosophy which makes an analogy with the letters of the alphabet (985b 15-19). This also appears in another treatise, De generatione et Corruptione (315b9-15), in which the interlocutors of Aristotle are italics thinkers – and especially Empedocles and the atomists. Aristotle criticises Empedocles’ disavoyment on the reality of generation and corruption, for the latter says that there is neither birth nor death, but only mixing and krasis (DK 31 B8). Aristotle based his criticism on a conception of subsistence or not of the essence (οὐσία). Besides the changes of qualitative, quantitative and spatial order, which can be explained according to the theories of differences in elemental composition of the atomists, Aristotle also requires an understanding of a more radical change in the way when a whole body ceases to be what it was or comes to be something he was not. At this sight, Empedocles would be, for Aristotle, a thinker who differs little from atomistic. For the Atomists, and Empedocles, as well as to all the Eleatics, there is really not generation and corruption. KEYWORDS: Empedocles, element, pre-Socratics, Aristotle, matter.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando Santoro•  19  Elementary Particle Physics, Presocratic Philosophy, Aristotle, Pre-Socratic (Pre-Platonic) PhilosophyThe Einstein unified field theory completed:  A direct challenge to the basic assumptions, theories and direction of modern and post-modern physics (1st Edition)The golden ring to which most physicists aspire is a unified field theory that incorporates all of modern and classical physics. Some scientists and others call this a TOE or ‘theory of everything’, but it is no more than false hubris to... moreThe golden ring to which most physicists aspire is a unified field theory that incorporates all of modern and classical physics. Some scientists and others call this a TOE or ‘theory of everything’, but it is no more than false hubris to believe that humans could possibly know and explain everything about the universe at this time. Einstein chased this goal for the last three decades of his life, basing his theoretical research on his general theory of relativity. Meanwhile, the vast majority of scientists supporting the other major accomplishment of the Second Scientific Revolution were investing all of their time and efforts to advancing the quantum theory and their quest has been extremely successful. They originally had no interest in a unified field theory. After Einstein died in 1955, his efforts were all but abandoned because of his philosophical stance against the prevalent Copenhagen Interpretation of quantum theory even though he had been one of quantum theory’s founders. During the 1970s the tables started to turn and quantum theorists became interested in unifying physics, although not from the foundational principles of relativity theory. They claimed that quantum theory was more fundamental than relativity so they began the same quest from a totally different direction despite their claims to be continuing Einstein’s quest.  Throughout the development of the ensuing standard quantum model, superstring theory and many other theoretical schemes, quantum theorists have remained resolute in their conviction that the quantum and relativity are mutually incompatible so the quantum must completely do away with and replace relativity once and for all. However, the quantum theory and relativity are not actually incompatible and, in fact, say the some of the same things about the nature of physical reality. When the similarities are fully defined and studied and the basic assumptions behind each of the theories are altered to reflect the similarities instead of the incompatibilities, only then can the point of their compatibility be determined and act as a unifying principle resulting in a completed unified field theory of the type that Einstein once sought. The development of this physical model of reality is not without irony. Not only is the quantum theory incomplete as Einstein argued in EPR, but Einstein’s general relativity is also seriously incomplete and true unification cannot be rendered complete at any level of reality until all the theoretical models being unified are themselves complete.Save to LibraryDownloadby James (Jim) E Beichler•  132  Mathematical Physics, Geometry And Topology, Algebraic Geometry, Non Euclidean GeometryΚωνσταντίνος Βαγιονάκης, "Συµπαντικό Καλειδοσκόπιο".

Στέφανος Τραχανάς, "Το Φάντασµα της Όπερας".Ο Στέφανος Τραχανάς, πιστός στο διαφωτιστικό πρόγραμμα των Πανεπιστηµιακών Εκδόσεων Κρήτης που διευθύνει, θέλει µε το «Φάντασµα της Όπερας» να βοηθήσει στη γεφύρωση του χάσματος ανάμεσα στις «δύο κουλτούρες» – αυτή των θετικών... moreΟ Στέφανος Τραχανάς, πιστός στο διαφωτιστικό πρόγραμμα των Πανεπιστηµιακών Εκδόσεων Κρήτης που διευθύνει, θέλει µε το «Φάντασµα της Όπερας» να βοηθήσει στη γεφύρωση του χάσματος ανάμεσα στις «δύο κουλτούρες» – αυτή των θετικών επιστημών, ιδιαίτερα της φυσικής, και εκείνη των ανθρωπιστικών/κοινωνικών επιστημών. Ο προκλητικός τίτλος του βιβλίου του παραπέμπει στα δύο «φαντάσματα» που λειτουργούν στο υπόγειο του κόσµου και της κοινωνίας µας, όπως ο ήρωας των Γκαστόν Λερού - Άντριου Λόυντ Γουέµπερ δρούσε στα υπόγεια της φημισμένης παλιάς όπερας του Παρισιού, το Palais Garnier. Με το βιβλίο του Κώστα Βαγιονάκη περνάμε σε προβληματισμούς για την εντελώς σύγχρονη φυσική, όπως διαμορφώθηκε κατά τη διάρκεια του20ού αιώνα, µε τη σχετικότητα και την κβαντομηχανική στο πρώτο του μισό, µε το Standard Model (Καθιερωμένο Πρότυπο) στο δεύτερο μισό, που είχε ως απροσδόκητο αποτέλεσμα τη σύζευξη µμικρόκοσμου και μακρόκοσμου, της φυσικής των στοιχειωδών σωματιδίων και της κοσμολογίας, και καθοδήγησε µμεθοδολογικά την απόπειρα να ενοποιηθούν οι θεμελιώδεις φυσικές δυνάμεις. ...Υπάρχουν πολλές διασυνδέσεις μεταξύ φυσικής και θεωρίας πληροφοριών, ειδικά στο πολύ πρόσφατο αντικείμενο των κβαντικών υπολογιστών, αλλά µου φαίνεται πως η κοινότητα των φυσικών είναι επιφυλακτική απέναντι στις προσπάθειες ενοποίησης. Αν επιτρέπεται οι αναγνώστες έγκυρων εκλαϊκευτικών έργων να έχουν γνώμη, εμένα µου φαίνεται πως η Μεγάλη Ενοποίηση που πρέπει να περιμένουμε είναι αυτή της Φυσικής µε τη Θεωρία της Επικοινωνίας  που θα επιτρέψει τη συνύπαρξη των κλασσικών εννοιών (ύλη, κίνηση, χρόνος, χώρος) µε αυτή της πληροφορίας.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dimitris Psychoyos•  5  Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Information Theory, Beyond the Standard Model PhysicsQuantum Spiral TheoryIn this paper we have tried to describe a gauge group for gravitational potential associated with the elementary particle as described by their spiral structure in accordance with the standard model. It relates to the framework of quantum... moreIn this paper we have tried to describe a gauge group for gravitational potential associated with the elementary particle as described by their spiral structure in accordance with the standard model. It relates to the framework of quantum field theory considering the Dark Potential Waves which constitutes the Universe to be destructively interfering through Symmetry which breaks spontaneously through autocatalysis to initiate the Higgs Mechanism which consecutively defines the gravitational potential resulting in various spiral forms of particles. It also redefines the formation of Spiral Structure of Elementary Particles in context to formation of Sea Shells.Save to Libraryby Suraj Kumar•  20  Engineering, Engineering Physics, Mathematics, Applied MathematicsThe Magnetic field of the Electric currentThis paper explains the magnetic effect of the electric current from the observed effects of the accelerating electrons, causing naturally the experienced changes of the electric field potential along the electric wire. The accelerating... moreThis paper explains the magnetic effect of the electric current from the observed effects of the accelerating electrons, causing naturally the experienced changes of the electric field potential along the electric wire. The accelerating electrons explain not only the Maxwell Equations and theSpecial Relativity, but the Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation, the wave particle duality and the electron’s spin also, building the bridge between the Classical and Quantum Theories. The changing acceleration of the electrons explains the created negative electric field of the magnetic induction, the electromagnetic inertia, the changing relativistic mass and the Gravitational Force, giving a Unified Theory of the physical forces. Taking into account the Planck Distribution Law of the electromagnetic oscillators also, we can explain the electron/proton mass rate and the Weak and Strong Interactions.Save to LibraryDownloadby George Rajna•  12  Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, GravitationVERY SIMPLE & VERY ACCURATE FORMULA OR EQUATION TO CALCULATE THE E.M. WAVES AMPLITUDESave to Libraryby Ali M. M.  Youness•  17  Physics, Atomic, Molecular, And Optical Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle PhysicsAppunti inediti di fisica teoricaSave to LibraryDownloadby Erasmo Recami•  12  Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics, Quantum PhysicsThe Dancing PlanetsThe Solar system depends on one geometrical design What does mean (One Geometrical Design)? The solar planets move a s pieces of the chess game – each planet motion depends on mathematical calculations and geometrical rules in... moreThe Solar system depends on one geometrical design What does mean (One Geometrical Design)? The solar planets move as pieces of the chess game – each planet motion depends on mathematical calculations and geometrical rules in comparison to the other planets – and as in the chess game –the players are teams and enemies but all of them are members in the same battle and they consist its structure- no one moves individually or independently It's the general idea – let's try to examine and test if it can be a fact(1)We accepted that (Newton Theory Of The Sun Gravity Is Wrong In Logic) basically because – The planet should be created and moving by the same one force – means- the force which created the planet it causes its motion – otherwise this planet will be broken because 2 forces effect on it- That tells, no planet moves by the sun gravity, because no planet be created by the sun gravity effect. But why the sun be found in the solar system if it doesn't cause any planet motion? And How Does The Planet Move If The Sun Doesn't Cause That?Shortly The planet creation and motion depends on one force only and for that this planet creation and motion data be in harmony one another- But - There are no 9 forces to cause the 9 planets creations and motions -  instead – it's just one force causes all planets creation and motion – this vision tells that – this one force uses a geometrical design to cause the planets creation and motion. Briefly One force causes all planets creation and motion by using One Geometrical Design to do these 2 jobs (the creation and motion) (2)What's This One Geometrical Design? Can We Discover It? Let's see this idea The solar planets and their distances be created from one energy – this one energy was in one geometrical design by that the planets be created by this One Geometrical Design. And this geometrical design controls the planets creation and motion data for that the planets data be created based on exact equations – we have discovered that and proves it before – because I have 5 equations based on which the planets data be created where we have explained before that the planet creation and motion data be similar to any plane or rocket creation data depends on exact equations to enable its motion to be done without negative effects.By that – My 5 Equations Prove That The Planets Creation And Motion Depends On One Geometrical Design. Notice (My 5 Equations Be Tested And Proved In Point No. 2) Shortly, My 5 equations prove one geometrical design be found behind the solar system   (3)Now do we realize this meaning (One Geometrical Design)? The idea tells (from one energy the planets and their distances be created), can we have any particles be created from the same energy? from gamma ray electron and positron be created, also the male and female creatures refer to similar system of creation –How do the 2 particles (or 2 creatures)  behave after creation? They have attraction for one another – What Does Mean Attraction?The electron and position attraction will cause the annihilation and produce Gamma ray – but the (male and female) creatures give more wide of the attractions (forms) Some one carries flowers for his wife – and so – why these flowers effect on their attraction? From one energy the 2 particles are created and they have to produce this one energy one more time to save the cycle and give chance for more particles to be created – if the 2 particles be in fighting their energies will be consumed in vain losing their chance of existence and the other (potential) particles chance Shortly They have to be under attraction to cause a safety for themselves and for the potential  particles – I hope I can explain the idea The planets motions agreement and integration is the necessary requirement for their existence and for (potential) lives existence – they are in full agreement – And what, A man and his wife live in happiness – what should they do to explain that?! The dancing planets do different forms show the agreement and integration of their motions – they show their integration because their integration is the only hope to produce the original energy from which they are created and give safety for the cycle. We are very near now The planets motions forms be seen in phenomena – as eclipses – planets alignments- planets perpendicularity ….etc These phenomena shows form of the integration of the planets motions which enable to produce the original energy one more time   Let's use the solar eclipse as example to explain the idea Eclipse Phenomenon The sun, Earth and the moon create the conspiracy of the eclipse phenomena, they agreed together to be on one straight line (180 degrees) Now (the designer) supports their conspiracy, and create the sun and moon diameters rate to be equal their distances rate to the Earth and by that we can see the sun disc = the moon disc and the eclipse can be occurred    The motion be done by 3 players in comparison one another – that explains the meaning of "One Geometrical Design"The planets creation data – for some unknown wonder – support the phenomenon by data proportionality  The total solar eclipse be occurred and the beautiful sun be absent and return An intelligent student asked me (What's The Result Of This Eclipse?)I couldn't answer – The Sun Be Absent And Return – that's all Why the 3 players interested so much to do this action? and why the designer changed the creation data to be in proportionality to enable the eclipse to be done? What a big deal behind?A group of dancers do some beautiful piece of theater on stage, the people applaud strongly – The dancers did some motions only!!Can This Dancing Depend On Geometrical Rule? Can the eclipse be done based on Geometrical Rule? Let’s examine to answer (a) (The sun diameter/ moon diameter) =(Earth orbital  distance / Earth moon distance) And Jupiter orbital distance = Earth orbital distance x 5.2 (5.1 degrees = The Moon Orbital Inclination) (b)2 x Jupiter orbital distance = Jupiter diameter x 10921 km (the moon circumference) And Jupiter (13.1km/s) moves during 10921 seconds a distance = 142984 km = Jupiter diameter (c)The sun diameter x the moon diameter = 4900 million km = Jupiter orbital circumference = Jupiter circumference x 10921 km We see the moon circumference (10921  km) be used as a period of time (10921 s) for Jupiter motion – it's hard to explain how! But This data tells 2 informationFirst (the eclipse be done based on geometrical rules and calculations) second (the used geometrical rules are unknown)  Shortly About what does this writing argue?The Argument The planets and their distances be created of one energy and based on one geometrical design which causes their creations and motions –The planets motion have to be in harmony to integrate their energies to produce the original energy from which they were created to save the cycle By that, the planets move together in full agreement and harmony – In their motions they create phenomenon caused by the one geometrical design they depend on and these phenomenon cause more geometrical effects for the solar system     By that,The planet be similar to a tube through which a water moves – but – the water here is similar to geometrical effects – because by these geometrical effects the planets do the phenomena and the phenomena itself cause more geometrical effects The whole proves is required to show the continuous harmony and agreement without which the original energy will never be found and the cycle will be destroyed.  Again Shortly about what does this writing argue?About the book of geometry Because, the eclipse be created based on geometrical rule and the eclipse process causes more geometrical effects to be created on the solar system   the book of geometry be written in the dancing planets phenomenon (eclipses, alignments, perpendicularity…etc) the rules are unknown, for that we need to examine in details to discover them. The physicist have seen nothing of the party – he simply supposed – all eclipses, alignments, perpendicularity.. etc be created by pure coincidences – he wasn't invited to the party and the missed the whole dance.We try to examine the planet motion as possible to know the fact. Gerges Francis Tawdrous +201022532292Physics Department-  Physics & Mathematics  Faculty  Peoples' Friendship university of Russia – Moscow   (2010-2013)Curriculum Vitaehttp://vixra.org/abs/1902.0044 E-mailmrwaheid@gmail.com, mrwaheid1@yahoo.com  gergesgerges@yandex.ru ORCIDhttps://orcid.org/0000-0002-1041-7147Facebook https://www.facebook.com/gergis.tawadrousVKhttps://vk.com/id696655587 Tumblr https://www.tumblr.com/blog/itsgerges  Researcherid https://publons.com/researcher/3510834/gerges-tawadrous/Google https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=2Y4ZdTUAAAAJ&hl=en Livejournal https://gerges2022.livejournal.com/profilePocket https://getpocket.com/@646g8dZ0p3aX5Ad1bsTr4d9THjA5p6a5b2fX99zd54g221E4bs76eBdtf6aJw5d0?src=navbarDiscord https://discord.gg/sgQFvUvTTwitter https://twitter.com/GfTawdrousQuorahttps://www.quora.com/profile/Gerges-FTawdrous PUBLICATIONS box  https://app.box.com/s/47fwd0gshir636xt0i3wpso8lvvl8vnv Academia https://rudn.academia.edu/GergesTawadrousList of publicationshttp://vixra.org/author/gerges_francis_tawdrousSlidesharehttps://www.slideshare.net/GergesfrancisSave to LibraryDownloadby Gerges Tawadrous•Geometry Of Light MotionPaper hypothesis -The planets matters and their distances be created from The Same One Energy. -This one energy is provided by one light beam -This light beam travels with a velocity =1.16 million km per second Paper objective -The... morePaper hypothesis -The planets matters and their distances be created from The Same One Energy.-This one energy is provided by one light beam -This light beam travels with a velocity =1.16 million km per second  Paper objective -The paper is consisted of 2 parts -Part no. (I) provides My Research Presentation Summary -Part no. (II) discusses The Geometry Of Light Motion -Let's refer to them in following.. Part No. (I) Research Presentation Summary My research presentation is consisted of 6 points which are (1)Planet Orbital Distance Equation (My 1st Equation) (2)The Refutation Of Newton Theory Of The Sun Gravity (No Planet moves by The Sun Gravity) (3)The Research Method explanation And Using to prove 2 basic new discoveries which are: (Mars Migration Theory) and (The moon using of an angle θ between its motion direction and its orbit level)    (4) The Research hypothesis (The planets matters and their distances be created from One Energy) That's why (The Solar System Be Created Based On One Geometrical Design) Means (One Geometrical Design was found before the solar system creation) That refutes (The Big Bang Theory) (5)The One Energy Is Provided By One Light Beam (6) The light beam travels with a velocity 1.16 million km per second.  That refutes (The hypothesis of the Special Theory of Relativity)  Part No. (II) Geometry Of Light MotionWhat's the direct question behind this paper? The matter and space are created from one light beam – means – the matter and space are forms of light forms – Now, if this is a fact, Why do we need to fight so hard to prove this very simple and clear fact? Because The light uses unknown geometrical rules – By that this paper should be similar to a book of Geometry – because – it shows types of geometrical rules are unknown for us and not found in our Geometry booksIt's a direct answer but not clear Why don't we know these rules? Why can't we catch them in lab experiments? If so many unknown geometrical rules of light motion are found, and we couldn't catch them during the empirical physics history why can we do that now? Can any one stole at end the Geometry book from the heaven library?!   I have brought with me the planets data and later I have discovered that all unknown geometrical rules be hidden in them.  Shortly The light creates the matter and space by using unknown geometrical rules – and – we can discover these geometrical rules by using planets data analysis – means – we can know these geometrical rules only if we can read correctly the planets data – for example – if we can answer the question (why the moon diameter =3475 km?) that will help us to discover the rules based on which the moon diameter be created.  So I will present my research summary then we should discuss these unknown geometrical rules. Gerges Francis Tawdrous +201022532292Physics Department-  Physics & Mathematics  Faculty  Peoples' Friendship university of Russia – Moscow   (2010-2013)Curriculum Vitaehttp://vixra.org/abs/1902.0044 E-mailmrwaheid@gmail.com, mrwaheid1@yahoo.com  gergesgerges@yandex.ru ORCIDhttps://orcid.org/0000-0002-1041-7147Facebook https://www.facebook.com/gergis.tawadrous/ VKhttps://vk.com/id696655587 Tumblr https://www.tumblr.com/blog/itsgerges  Researcherid https://publons.com/researcher/3510834/gerges-tawadrous/Google https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=2Y4ZdTUAAAAJ&hl=en Livejournal https://gerges2022.livejournal.com/profilePocket https://getpocket.com/@646g8dZ0p3aX5Ad1bsTr4d9THjA5p6a5b2fX99zd54g221E4bs76eBdtf6aJw5d0?src=navbarDiscord https://discord.gg/sgQFvUvTTwitter https://twitter.com/GfTawdrousQuorahttps://www.quora.com/profile/Gerges-FTawdrous PUBLICATIONS box  https://app.box.com/s/47fwd0gshir636xt0i3wpso8lvvl8vnv Academia https://rudn.academia.edu/GergesTawadrousList of publicationshttp://vixra.org/author/gerges_francis_tawdrousSlidesharehttps://www.slideshare.net/GergesfrancisSave to LibraryDownloadby Gerges Tawadrous•Planet Data Analysis As Astrophysics Scientific MethodPaper Discovery -Planet Data Analysis should be considered the astrophysics research basic method. -The paper proves that – We have to use planets data analysis to discover how the solar system be created and moving – the method... morePaper Discovery -Planet Data Analysis should be considered the astrophysics research basic method.  -The paper proves that – We have to use planets data analysis to discover how the solar system be created and moving – the method provides safe approaches to conclude the facts and protects from the imaginary ideas –-On the other side – -Planets data analysis method proves – The big bang theory is wrong and Newton theory of the sun gravity is wrong – (also the method proves one light beam its velocity 1.16 million km per second be found) – -The method opens a new page in the physics book because it provides a new source of knowledge to discover how the solar system be created and moving. -The paper provides a new concept tells(Planet Data Be Created Based On Geometrical Rules And Exact Equations)  And (One Law Controls All Planets Data) -Based on this new concept – Planet Data Analysis can show The Geometrical Rules based on which this planet be created and moving.-The paper explains and proves the idea shortly.Gerges Francis Tawdrous +201022532292Physics Department-  Physics & Mathematics  Faculty  Peoples' Friendship university of Russia – Moscow   (a former student 2010-2013)Curriculum Vitaehttp://vixra.org/abs/1902.0044 E-mailmrwaheid@gmail.com, mrwaheid1@yahoo.com  gergesgerges@yandex.ru ORCIDhttps://orcid.org/0000-0002-1041-7147Facebook https://www.facebook.com/gergis.tawadrous/ VKhttps://vk.com/id696655587 Tumblr https://www.tumblr.com/blog/itsgerges  Researcherid https://publons.com/researcher/3510834/gerges-tawadrous/Google https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=2Y4ZdTUAAAAJ&hl=en Livejournal https://gerges2022.livejournal.com/profilePocket https://getpocket.com/@646g8dZ0p3aX5Ad1bsTr4d9THjA5p6a5b2fX99zd54g221E4bs76eBdtf6aJw5d0?src=navbarDiscord https://discord.gg/sgQFvUvTTwitter https://twitter.com/GfTawdrousQuorahttps://www.quora.com/profile/Gerges-FTawdrous PUBLICATIONS box  https://app.box.com/s/47fwd0gshir636xt0i3wpso8lvvl8vnv Academia https://rudn.academia.edu/GergesTawadrousList of publicationshttp://vixra.org/author/gerges_francis_tawdrousSlidesharehttps://www.slideshare.net/GergesfrancisSave to LibraryDownloadby Gerges Tawadrous•  17  Mathematics, Mathematical Physics, Physics, Elementary Particle PhysicsEttore Majorana: Notes on Theoretical PhysicsSave to LibraryDownloadby Erasmo Recami•  9  Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics, History of MathematicsEttore Majorana: Unpublished Research Notes on Theoretical PhysicsSave to LibraryDownloadby Erasmo Recami•  12  Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Nuclear PhysicsSELECTED PAPERS BY E.RECAMI (Pubblicazioni di E.Recami: Una selezione)  - Book of 497 pages /  Published by the Bergamo state University [ISBN: 979-12-200-0644-6]Book of 497 pages [ISBN: 979-12-200-0644-6] ---- Abstracts in English and in Italian -- Riassunti in inglese e in italiano: ABSTRACT in English – The existence of this book is due to an initiative of the Rector (Vice-Chancellor) of... moreBook of 497 pages [ISBN: 979-12-200-0644-6]  ----  Abstracts in English and in Italian -- Riassunti in inglese e in italiano: ABSTRACT in English – The existence of this book is due to an initiative of the Rector (Vice-Chancellor) of the Bergamo state University, Stefano PALEARI, with the help of the local Department of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and a final contribution from INFN - Sezione di Milano.      The first part of this volume contains popularization or semi-popularization articles. More scientific, and necessarily more specialized or technical, papers follow.            For the tyranny of space, very many publications appear represented by their first page, of by their Abstract and Contents only.  This always happened, of course, for the mentioned books: we would have liked to be able to insert at least  extended presentations of them; as well as and the integral version of several articles, listed in part in the Preface [even if much material can be downloaded from the site www.unibg.it/recami  and/or from ResearchGate or from Academia. The author himself remains at your disposal, recami@mi.infn.it ].      The Contents of this volume appear at its beginning, and in the supplementary attached file. RIASSUNTO in italiano --   L'esistenza di questo volume, di 497 pagine, è interamente dovuta al M.Rettore della Università degli studi di Bergamo, Stefano PALEARI, che ne ebbe la generosa idea e si è adoperato per realizzarla, seguendola fino alla pubblicazione del presente volume con l’ausilio del suo ufficio di Rettorato. L’iniziativa fu assecondata dal Dipartimento di Ingegneria e Scienze Applicate e, nella fase finale, dalla Sezione di Milano dell'INFN.      La prima parte del volume è divulgativa o semi-divulgativa. Seguono poi scritti o articoli o libri più scientifici e necessariamente più "specializzati" o tecnici.      Di moltissime pubblicazioni, per la tirannia dello spazio, abbiamo potuto inserire solo la prima pagina, o le pagine con riassunto e indice. Ciò è sempre avvenuto, di necessità, per i libri menzionati. Ci sarebbe piaciuto potere includere presentazioni estese dei volumi ai quali nel libro si accenna, e la versione integrale di svariati articoli, in parte elencati nella Prefazione del libro [benché quasi tutto ciò sia 'scaricabile' dal sito www.unibg.it/recami , e/o da ResearchGate e/o da Academia. Lo stesso autore resta volentieri a disposizione, recami@mi.infn.it ].       L’Indice del libro appare all’inizio dello stesso, e nel file supplementare pure allegato.      [ISBN: 979-12-200-0644-6]Save to LibraryDownloadby Erasmo Recami•  27  Elementary Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics, Philosophy of Science, RelativityA Review on Higgs BosonSave to LibraryDownloadby mina ghodsi•  4  Elementary Particle Physics, Particle Physics, Theoretical Particle Physics, Higgs physicsThe Nature of Everything Hypothesis:  The Unification of General Relativity, Quantum Mechanics and ConsciousnessThe NOE Hypothesis concepts are extracted from the combined work of Blavatsky, Bailey and Besant. The original paper, “A New Cosmological Model for Matter, Energy, Sound, the Origin of the Universe and Gravity” is intended as a bridging... moreThe NOE Hypothesis concepts are extracted from the combined work of Blavatsky, Bailey and Besant. The original paper, “A New Cosmological Model for Matter, Energy, Sound, the Origin of the Universe and Gravity” is intended as a bridging paper between esoteric philosophy fact and scientific hypothesis. The concepts have been translated into the language of physics and chemistry from the often abstruse language found in philosophy. This paper expands on the concepts and unifies General Relativity, Quantum Mechanics and Consciousness. String Theory is superseded by the Spirilla Hypothesis. Origins of the Universe, definitions for time and space, gravity and Quantum Entanglement are discussed relative to life.Save to LibraryDownloadby Madonna-Megara Holloway and +2Mark A. B. GarstinMaster Djwhal Khul•  29  Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, Chemistry, Quantum ChemistryHadron Models and Related New Energy IssuesThe present book covers a wide-range of issues from alternative hadron models to their likely implications in New Energy research, including alternative interpretation of lowenergy reaction (coldfusion) phenomena.Save to LibraryDownloadby Victor Christianto and +3Valentin BojuFlorentin SmarandacheIrv Goldfain•  5  Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, Hadron PhysicsBasic Introduction to Terms Relating to Sub-Atomic Particles and to the Standard Model of Elementary ParticlesBasic Introduction to Terms Relating to Sub-Atomic Particles and to the Standard Model of Elementary ParticlesSave to LibraryDownloadby Shlomo Guil•  20  Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, Science Education, RelativityCraig on the Resurrection: A DefensePREVIEW ONLY - READ FULL ARTICLE HERE: https://doi.org/10.33929/sherm.2020.vol2.no1.03 This article is a rebuttal to Robert G. Cavin and Carlos A. Colombetti's article, "Assessing the Resurrection Hypothesis: Problems with Craig's... morePREVIEW ONLY - READ FULL ARTICLE HERE:https://doi.org/10.33929/sherm.2020.vol2.no1.03This article is a rebuttal to Robert G. Cavin and Carlos A. Colombetti's article, "Assessing the Resurrection Hypothesis: Problems with Craig's Inference to the Best Explanation," which argues that the Standard Model of current particle physics entails that non-physical things (like a supernatural God or a supernaturally resurrected body) can have no causal contact with the physical universe. As such, they argue that William Lane Craig's resurrection hypothesis is not only incompatible with the notion of Jesus physically appearing to the disciples, but the resurrection hypothesis is significantly limited in both its explanatory scope and explanatory power. This article seeks to demonstrate why their use of the Standard Model does not logically entail a rejection of the physical resurrection of Jesus when considering the scope and limitations of science itself.Save to LibraryDownloadby SHERM Journal•  20  Elementary Particle Physics, Particle Physics, Beyond the Standard Model Physics, Bodily ResurrectionCreation of Reality Through Conscious ObservationThe phenomenon of conscious creation of our realities has been discussed with particular reference to three fundamental quantum mechanics theories known as the Schrodinger Cat Experiment (and its interpretation attributed to Copenhagen),... moreThe phenomenon of conscious creation of our realities has been discussed with particular reference to three fundamental quantum mechanics theories known as the Schrodinger Cat Experiment (and its interpretation attributed to Copenhagen), the Many Worlds Theory, and the Young's so-called Double-Slit Experiment. It is elucidated that contrary to our common belief that the macroscopic world pre-exists and has a set reality, as far as the position in time and space is concerned, the quantum mechanics asserts that the position of a particle at the quantum state cannot be determined unless a "measurement" of its position is made. More, specifically the position of a particle in space is defined as a quantum wave function that predicts the probability of a position and not it's certain location. Furthermore, it is clarified that, in reality, the fundamental constituents of matter, the electrons, protons, etc. can have two distinct states of existence: particle and wave forms. While the particulate representation of the constituents of matter within the classical macroscopic theory gives the impression of 'existing' at a particular point in space and time, the wave representation asserts an uncertainty of location (known as "superposition'') at any point in the continuum of time and space, until the entity is 'observed.' In this regard, it ascertains that the act of observation affects the position and the energy of a particle. Therefore, an observer is the most important part of a quantum experiment. And, no observation or 'measurement' can be conducted without sentient consciousness. Thus, it is, ultimately, the consciousness that creates the reality behind positioning of any entity in a continuum of time and space. Simply put, quantities only become actual when they are observed consciously. Particles (electrons, protons, neutrons, etc.) as well as we, pop in and out of existence constantly. And, the destinations are what we refer to as the 'parallel dimensions.' In conclusion, the author strongly agrees with the Physicist David Deutsch's argument in his book The Fabric of Reality that the double-slit experiment is evidence for the many-worlds interpretation, thus testifying to the author's assessment that consciousness is a discrete, quantum, and multidimensional phenomenon.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohsen Paul Sarfarazi•  19  Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, Particle Physics, Observational CosmologyKaon Lifetime and DecayThe Standard Model presumes that there are two different types of neutral kaons, i.e., short-lived K S kaons which decay to 2 pions and long-lived kaons K L which decay to 3 pions. This article shows that in reality there is only one type... moreThe Standard Model presumes that there are two different types of neutral kaons, i.e., short-lived K S kaons which decay to 2 pions and long-lived kaons K L which decay to 3 pions. This article shows that in reality there is only one type of neutral kaons. The lifetime of kaons depends on their velocity in the gravity field. The fast kaons have more energy, more lifetime and therefore they can decay to 3 pions. If the fast kaons slow down they lose energy and therefore can decay only to 2 pions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ilgaitis Prusis•  11  Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Relativity, EnergyProceedings of the XI LISHEP - Workshop on High Energy Physics in the Near Future Save to LibraryDownloadby Francisco Caruso•  3  Elementary Particle Physics, Particle Physics, High Energy PhysicsSearch for the Standard Model Higgs boson produced in association with a vector boson and decaying to a b-quark pair with the ATLAS detectorSave to LibraryDownloadby Melissa Hernández•  10  Elementary Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics, Quantum Physics, Particle PhysicsFinishing Einstein Point by Point:  The unification of quantum and relativityIt might seem that the unification of physics within a single paradigm has been the primary goal in science for only the past few decades, but this would not be true. Unification was the original goal of Einstein and a few other... moreIt might seem that the unification of physics within a single paradigm has been the primary goal in science for only the past few decades, but this would not be true.  Unification was the original goal of Einstein and a few other physicists from the 1920s to the 1960s, during a period of time when quantum theorists were ironing out their own unique problems. Their original notion of unification was based on relativity theory rather than the quantum. Unification in the guise of the quantum paradigm only emerged during the 1970s and has since overshadowed all other attempts to unify physics. Quantum theorists believe their work is more accurate, fundamental and even more practical than relativity even though there is little or no evidence to support that belief. For all intents and purposes, the two theories seem mutually incompatible, so the unification of physics has recently proceeded along the lines of an either/or strategy: Either the quantum theory is correct and relativity is wrong, or relativity is correct and the quantum theory wrong. In fact, quantum theorists have been very aggressively trying to replace the space-time curvature of general relativity with gravitons, quantum gravity, other mythical particles and equally speculative gimmicks for several decades and all of their attempts have been futile. In reality, both approaches are basically flawed because both theories are incomplete as they are now understood. Had either side of the controversy just simplified their worldview and sought commonality between the two instead of concentrating on false made-up differences, unification could have been accomplished long ago. The point is, literally, that the discrete quantum, continuous relativity, basic physical geometry and classical physics all share one common characteristic – a paradoxical duality between a dimensionless point and an extended length in any dimension – and if the problem of unification is approached from an attempt to understand how this problem relates to each paradigm all of physics could be unified within a single new theoretical model. Unfortunately, there has traditionally been no method by which a three-dimensional space can be generated from dimensionless points, raising the question – how can dimensionless point particles be extended to account for the three-dimensional space in which the physical interactions they describe occur? This very question is basic to both the quantum theory and relativity, but neither has attempted to answer it although Einstein and others’ attempts to develop classical unified field theories have come closest to the answer. The unification of physics is impossible until this question is answered, but once it is answered the unification follows naturally and easily.Save to LibraryDownloadby James (Jim) E Beichler•  34  Physics, Theoretical Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum PhysicsTheory of the Origin, Evolution, and Nature of LifeSave to LibraryDownloadby Erik Andrulis•  56  Evolutionary Biology, Field Theory, Earth Sciences, GeologyHadron Models and Related New Energy IssuesThe present book covers a wide-range of issues from alternative hadron models to their likely implications in New Energy research, including alternative interpretation of lowenergy reaction (coldfusion) phenomena.Save to LibraryDownloadby Florentin Smarandache and +1Diego Lucio Rapoport (Campodonico)•  5  Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Physics, Hadron PhysicsThe Helicon: A New Preon ModelA new preon model is presented as an extension of the semiclassical Helical Solenoid Electron Model that was previously proposed by the author. This helicon model assumes as postulates both the Atomic Principle and the equality between... moreA new preon model is presented as an extension of the semiclassical Helical Solenoid Electron Model that was previously proposed by the author. This helicon model assumes as postulates both the Atomic Principle and the equality between matter and electric charge. These postulates lead us to a radical reinterpretation of the concepts of antimatter and dark matter and form a new framework for future preon theories.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oliver Consa•  3  Elementary Particle Physics, Zitterbewegung, ring electron NextLast »Related TopicsParticle PhysicsFollowFollowingTheoretical PhysicsFollowFollowingDark MatterFollowFollowingHigh Energy PhysicsFollowFollowingGeneral RelativityFollowFollowingGravitationFollowFollowingQuantum GravityFollowFollowingCosmology (Physics)FollowFollowingPhysicsFollowFollowingString TheoryFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023