Monash University | Monash Institute of Medical Engineering - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Monash UniversityMonash Institute of Medical Engineering  All Departments138 Documents1 ResearchersDevelopment of dual-triggered in situ gelling scaffolds for tissue engineeringHydrogel-formingmaterials that mimic the three-dimensional architecture and properties of tissue are known to have a positive effect on cellular differentiation and growth.Asubset of those are in situ gels,which utilise in vivo conditions... moreHydrogel-formingmaterials that mimic the three-dimensional architecture and properties of tissue are known to have a positiveeffect on cellular differentiation and growth.Asubset of those are in situ gels,which utilise in vivo conditions like pH(e.g. acetatephthalate), temperature (e.g. poloxamer) and ionic concentration (e.g.Gelrite™), and can be used to facilitate the delivery of cellsto an affected tissue. Hence, we have developed in situ hydrogels based on gellan and hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC),which are known to be triggered through ions and temperature, respectively, as matrices to deliver cells. Gellan/HPMC blendshad a lower gelation temperature than gellan alone crosslinked with calcium, suggesting the role of the dual trigger. Averagestoragemodulus at a frequency of 10 Hz for gellan crosslinked with 3 mmol L−1 calcium was 4.53 × 103 Pa; for 9:1 gellan/HPMCcrosslinked with 3 mmol L−1 calcium was 5.59 × 103 Pa; and for 8:2 gellan/HPMC crosslinked with 3 mmol L−1 calcium was 2.13× 103 Pa, suggesting tunable stiffness by changing the gellan-to-HPMC ratio. Hydrophilicity was confirmed using goniometrywith a contact angle much less than 90∘, facilitating the passage of cells and electrolytes when using the gels as scaffolds. Thegels were also found to be porous and non-toxic to fibroblast cell line L929 and osteosarcoma cell line MG-63, which, whenencapsulated within thegels,were able togrowandproliferate. Theseblendedhydrogels are suitable as scaffolds toencapsulatecells, with tunable stiffnessmodulated by varying the concentration of gellan and HPMC.© 2014 Society of Chemical IndustrySave to LibraryDownloadby Edmund Carvalho and +2Kerry HouriganPaul  Verma•  2  Biomaterials, Biomaterials and tissue engineering scaffoldsComparative Study on the Therapeutic Potential of Neurally Differentiated Stem Cells in a Mouse Model of Multiple SclerosisSave to LibraryDownloadby Claude Bernard and +1Paul  Verma•  19  Immune response, Multiple sclerosis, Human Embryonic Stem Cells, Stem CellA Novel Method for Somatic Cell Nuclear Transfer to Mouse Embryonic Stem CellsNuclear reprogramming by somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) provides a practical approach for generating autologous pluripotent cells from adult somatic cells. It has been shown that murine somatic cells can also be reprogrammed to a... moreNuclear reprogramming by somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) provides a practical approach for generating autologous pluripotent cells from adult somatic cells. It has been shown that murine somatic cells can also be reprogrammed to a pluripotent-like state by fusion with embryonic stem (ES) cells. Typically, the first step in SCNT involves enucleation of the recipient cell. However, recent evidence suggests that enucleated diploid ES cells may lack reprogramming capabilities. Here we have developed methods whereby larger tetraploid ES cells are first generated by fusion of two mouse ES cell lines transfected with plasmids carrying different antibiotic-resistance cassettes, followed by double antibiotic selection. Tetraploid ES cells grown on tissue culture disks or wells can be efficiently enucleated (up to 99%) using a combination of cytochalasin B treatment and centrifugation, with cytoplasts generated from these cells larger than those obtained from normal diploid ES cells. Also, we show that the enucleation rate is dependent on centrifugation time and cell ploidy. Further, we demonstrate that normal diploid ES cells can be fused to tetraploid ES cells to form heterokaryons, and that selective differential centrifugation conditions can be applied where the tetraploid nucleus is removed while the diploid donor nucleus is retained. This technology opens new avenues for generating autologous, diploid pluripotent cells, and provides a dynamic model for studying nuclear reprogramming in ES cells.Save to Libraryby Alan Trounson and +1Paul  Verma•  11  Technology, Stem Cells, Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (I Psc), PolyploidyCell fusion for reprogramming pluripotencySave to LibraryDownloadby Alan Trounson and +1Paul  Verma•  9  Genetics, Technology, Biological Sciences, Cell fusionGeneration of Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell Lines from Adult Rat Cells... Here, we report the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from adult rat cells and demonstrate that the iPSC technique provides a feasible approach to establish pluripotent stem cells for a ... All of the reported cell... more... Here, we report the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from adult rat cells and demonstrate that the iPSC technique provides a feasible approach to establish pluripotent stem cells for a ... All of the reported cell lines could only be termed ESC-like cells because ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul  Verma and +1Jun  Liu•  7  Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (I Psc), Biological Sciences, Cell line, AnimalsThe Efficient Generation of Induced Pluripotent Stem (iPS) Cells From Adult Mouse Adipose Tissue-Derived and Neural Stem CellsEctopic expression of key reprogramming transgenes in somatic cells enables them to adopt the characteristics of pluripotency. Such cells have been termed induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells and have revolutionized the field of somatic... moreEctopic expression of key reprogramming transgenes in somatic cells enables them to adopt the characteristics of pluripotency. Such cells have been termed induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells and have revolutionized the field of somatic cell reprogramming, as the need for embryonic material is obviated. One of the issues facing both the clinical translation of iPS cell technology and the efficient derivation of iPS cell lines in the research laboratory is choosing the most appropriate somatic cell type for induction. In this study, we demonstrate the direct reprogramming of a defined population of neural stem cells (NSCs) derived from the subventricular zone (SVZ) and adipose tissue-derived cells (ADCs) from adult mice using retroviral transduction of the Yamanaka factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc, and compared the results obtained with a mouse embryonic fibroblast (mEF) control. We isolated mEFs, NSCs, and ADCs from transgenic mice, which possess a GFP transgene under control of the Oct4 promoter, and validated GFP expression as an indicator of reprogramming. While transduction efficiencies were not significantly different among the different cell types (mEFs 68.70 +/- 2.62%, ADCs 70.61 +/- 15.4%, NSCs, 68.72 +/- 3%, p = 0.97), the number of GFP-positive colonies and hence the number of reprogramming events was significantly higher for both NSCs (13.50 +/- 4.10 colonies, 0.13 +/- 0.06%) and ADCs (118.20 +/- 38.28 colonies, 1.14 +/- 0.77%) when compared with the mEF control (3.17 +/- 0.29 colonies, 0.03 +/- 0.005%). ADCs were most amenable to reprogramming with an 8- and 38-fold greater reprogramming efficiency than NSCs and mEFs, respectively. Both NSC iPS and ADC iPS cells were demonstrated to express markers of pluripotency and could differentiate to the three germ layers, both in vitro and in vivo, to cells representative of the three germ lineages. Our findings confirm that ADCs are an ideal candidate as a readily accessible somatic cell type for high efficiency establishment of iPS cell lines.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma•  14  Technology, Flow Cytometry, Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (I Psc), Biological SciencesTetraploid Embryonic Stem Cells Contribute to the Inner Cell Mass of Mouse BlastocystsSave to LibraryDownloadby Paul  Verma•  12  Technology, Stem Cells, Stem Cell Transplantation, PolyploidyChromosomal and telomeric reprogramming following ES-somatic cell fusionChromosomal and telomeric reprogramming was assessed in intraspecies hybrids obtained by fusion of embryonic stem (ES) cells and mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Evaluation of the ploidy of ES-somatic hybrids revealed that 21 of 59 clones had... moreChromosomal and telomeric reprogramming was assessed in intraspecies hybrids obtained by fusion of embryonic stem (ES) cells and mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Evaluation of the ploidy of ES-somatic hybrids revealed that 21 of 59 clones had a tetraploid DNA profile while the remaining clones showed deviations from the expected profile of fusion between two diploid cells. Microsatellite polymerase chain reaction analysis of four of these clones demonstrated no random loss of somatic chromosome pairs in the ES-somatic cell hybrids. Pluripotential of ES-somatic hybrids was assessed by gene expression analysis, antibody staining for Oct4 and SSEA-1 and teratoma formation containing derivatives of the three germ layers. Reprogramming of telomeric maintenance was observed with ES-somatic hybrids showing high telomerase activity and increased telomere lengths. However, we detected no significant increase in the expression of the three critical telomerase subunits: telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT), telomerase RNA component (TERC), and dyskerin. This indicates that activation of telomerase and telomere maintenance is not reliant on changes in gene expression of TERT, TERC, and dyskerin following ES-somatic cell fusion or sister chromatid recombination and may arise through elimination of negative regulation of telomerase activity. This is the first demonstration of telomere lengthening following cell fusion and offers a new model for studying and identifying new regulators of telomere maintenance.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma•  22  Genetics, Human Embryonic Stem Cells, RNA, Gene expressionGeneration of Stable Pluripotent Stem Cells From NOD Mouse Tail-Tip FibroblastsSave to LibraryDownloadby Paul  Verma and +1Jun  Liu•  12  Diabetes, Flow Cytometry, Immunohistochemistry, Cell DifferentiationNANOG is a key factor for induction of pluripotency in bovine adult fibroblastsSave to LibraryDownloadby Paul  Verma•  8  Animal Science, Biological Sciences, Cell Differentiation, AnimalGeneration of Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells from Asian Patients with Chronic Neurodegenerative DiseasesSave to Libraryby Paul  Verma•Gelatin–PMVE/MA composite scaffold promotes expansion of embryonic stem cellsWe introduce a new composite scaffold of gelatin and polymethyl vinyl ether-alt-maleic anhydride (PMVE/MA) for expansion of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in an in vitro environment. To optimize the scaffold, we prepared a gelatin scaffold... moreWe introduce a new composite scaffold of gelatin and polymethyl vinyl ether-alt-maleic anhydride (PMVE/MA) for expansion of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) in an in vitro environment. To optimize the scaffold, we prepared a gelatin scaffold (G) and three composite scaffolds namely GP-1, GP-2, and GP-3 with varying PMVE/MA concentrations (0.2-1%) and characterized them by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), swelling study, compression testing and FTIR. SEM micrographs revealed interconnected porous structure in all the scaffolds. The permissible hemolysis ratio and activation of platelets by scaffolds confirmed the hemocompatibility of scaffolds. Initial biocompatibility assessment of scaffolds was conducted using hepatocarcinoma (Hep G2) cells and adhesion, proliferation and infiltration of Hep G2 cells in depth of scaffolds were observed, proving the scaffold&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;#39;s biocompatibility. Further Oct4B2 mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), which harbor a green fluorescence protein transgene under regulatory control of the Oct4 promotor, were examined for expansion on scaffolds with MTT assay. The GP-2 scaffold demonstrated the best cell proliferation and was further explored for ESC adherence and infiltration in depth (SEM and confocal), and pluripotent state of mESCs was assessed with the expression of Oct4-GFP and stage-specific embryonic antigen-1 (SSEA-1). This study reports the first demonstration of biocompatibility of gelatin-PMVE/MA composite scaffold and presents this scaffold as a promising candidate for embryonic stem cell based tissue engineering.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma•  10  Biomedical Engineering, Humans, Porosity, MiceStable transgene expression in human embryonic stem cells after simple chemical transfectionIn this study we used plasmid-based vectors to investigate the transcriptional activities of three commonly used promoters in transient and stable transfection of MEL-1, a human embryonic stem (ES) cell line, using ExGen500, Fugene HD,... moreIn this study we used plasmid-based vectors to investigate the transcriptional activities of three commonly used promoters in transient and stable transfection of MEL-1, a human embryonic stem (ES) cell line, using ExGen500, Fugene HD, and Lipofectamine. We demonstrated that cytomegalovirus (CMV), phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) and human elongation factor-1alpha (EF1alpha) promoters all resulted in robust activity of a reporter gene in MEL-1 ES cell transient transfections regardless of the transfection reagent. Stable transfection outcomes varied, depending on the promoter and the transfection reagent used in the study. The phenomenon of transgene silencing was observed, most notably with the CMV vector, with which no positive stably transfected clones were obtained. Of the methods used in the study, Fugene HD resulted in the highest stable transfection rate, estimated by antibiotic selection, with plasmids containing genes under the control of the EF1alpha or PGK promoters. Stably transfected cells maintained typical hES cell morphology, with immunostaining exhibiting expression of the hES cell markers: Oct4, SSEA4, Tra-1-60, and Tra-1-81. Further, embryoid bodies formed by suspension culture retained reporter gene expression. Following injection into immunodeficient mice, the transfected cell lines showed robust formation of teratomas with cell types representative of the three germ layers.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma•  13  Human embryonic stem cell, Gene expression, Cell line, Cell DifferentiationDynamic changes in localization of chromobox (CBX) family members during the maternal to embryonic transitionSave to LibraryDownloadby Paul  Verma and +1M. Holland•  8  Molecular, Female, Animals, CattleIn vitro development of porcine nuclear transfer embryos constructed using fetal fibroblastsThe in vitro development of porcine nuclear transfer embryos constructed using primary cultures from day 25 fetal fibroblasts which were either rapidly dividing (cycling) or had their cell-cycle synchronized in G0/G1 using serum... moreThe in vitro development of porcine nuclear transfer embryos constructed using primary cultures from day 25 fetal fibroblasts which were either rapidly dividing (cycling) or had their cell-cycle synchronized in G0/G1 using serum starvation (serum-starved) was examined. Oocyte-karyoplast complexes were fused and activated simultaneously and then cultured in vitro for seven days to assess development. Fusion rates were not different for either cell population. The proportion of reconstructed embryos that cleaved was higher in the cycling group compared to the serum-starved group (79 vs. 56% respectively; P &amp;lt; 0.05). Development to the 4-cell stage was not different using either population. Both treatments supported similar rates of development to the morula (1.5 vs. 7%, cycling vs. serum-starved) and blastocyst stage (1.5 vs. 3%, cycling vs. serum-starved). The blastocyst produced using cycling cells had a total cell number of 10. Total cell numbers for the three blastocysts produced serum-starved cells were 22, 24, and 33. These blastocysts had inner cell mass numbers of 0, 15, and 4, respectively. Six hundred and thirty-five nuclear transfer embryos reconstructed using serum-starved cells were transferred to 15 temporarily mated recipients for 3-4 days. Of these, 486 were recovered (77% recovery rate) of which 106 (22%) had developed to the 4-cell stage or later. These were transferred to a total of 15 recipients which were either unmated or mated. Seven recipients farrowed a total of 51 piglets. Microsatellite analysis revealed that none of these were derived from the nuclear transfer embryos transferred.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma•  10  Cell Cycle, Animals, Blastocyst, Embryo Transfer221 GENERATION OF GERM-LINE COMPETENT EMBRYONIC STEM CELLS FROM NON-OBESE DIABETIC (NOD) MICE USING A SINGLE INHIBITORABSTRACT The use of inbred mouse strains, where selective mating and tissue availability can be used to study the role of specific genes during disease pathogenesis is a synergistic approach to human type 1 diabetes (T1D) studies, which... moreABSTRACT The use of inbred mouse strains, where selective mating and tissue availability can be used to study the role of specific genes during disease pathogenesis is a synergistic approach to human type 1 diabetes (T1D) studies, which are hindered by genetic heterogeneity and inability to obtain relevant tissue biopsies. An excellent model for T1D is the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse strain, which spontaneously develops autoimmunity with lymphocytic infiltration of pancreatic islets. Autoimmune disease in NOD mice is multigenic and more than 20 susceptibility loci have been identified. Thus, genetic manipulation of NOD mice via gene targeting in embryonic stem cells (ESC) is a key strategy for identifying the underlying genes for these loci and characterising their roles in disease pathogenesis. Derivation of ESCs from NOD mice has proved to be extremely challenging and the NOD mouse is classified as one of the non-permissive mouse strains for derivation of ESC (Nagafuchi et al. 1999 FEBS Lett. 455, 101-141; Nichols et al. 2009 Nat. Med. 15, 814-818). Using the conventional mouse ESC culture medium - Knockout DMED medium supplemented with 20% Knockout serum replacement (KSR), 2mM glutamine, 0.1mM nonessential amino acids, 0.1mM β-mercaptoethanol (all from Invitrogen) and 2000UmL(-1) LIF (Millipore), we efficiently derived robust NOD ESC lines by inhibiting either the ERK or the GSK3b signalling pathway. Nineteen NOD ESC lines following supplementation of the ERK signalling inhibitor SC1 (SC1-NOD ESC) and 10 lines with GSK3b signalling inhibitor BIO (designed as BIO-NOD ESC) from 22 and 12 embryos, respectively (86.3 and 83.3%; P=0.8). Two SC1-NOD and 2 BIO-NOD ESC were selected for characterisation. All 4 lines expressed the pluripotency-specific genes OCT4, NANOG and SSEA1, showed euploid karyotypes and generated teratomas in SCID mice. Two BIO-NOD ESC lines contributed to chimeric mice after injection into C57BL/6 blastocysts and embryo transfer. Chimeras from the both BIO-NOD ESC lines produced progeny of pure NOD genetics after mating with wild-type NOD females, demonstrating germ-line competence. The NOD ESC lines generated provide a unique tool to study genes implicated in T1D.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma•Biological SciencesINDUCING PLURIPOTENCY IN RUMINANTSABSTRACT The generation of ES cell lines in ruminants, including cattle and sheep, has been inefficient with putative ESCs undergoing rapid spontaneous differentiation. Recently direct reprogramming of rodent and primate somatic cells to... moreABSTRACT The generation of ES cell lines in ruminants, including cattle and sheep, has been inefficient with putative ESCs undergoing rapid spontaneous differentiation. Recently direct reprogramming of rodent and primate somatic cells to induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSC) is possible simply by forcing expression of a handful of transcription factors, typically OCT3/4, SOX2, KLF4 and cMYC (OSKM). Using a similar approach we have identified that addition of NANOG to the reprogramming cocktail was essential for the generation of stable bovine induced pluripotent stem cells (biPSC). Conversely, generation of reprogrammed sheep iPS (siPSC) cells was achieved by transduction of four factors (OSKM) alone. Significantly, at passage 17 the siPS cells showed silencing of the OSKM transgenes with concomitant reactivation of endogenous pluripotent genes, including OCT4, SOX2 and NANOG. The generation of stable ruminant pluripotent cell lines paves the way for the use of these cells for both biomedical research and agricultural outcomes.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma•Biological Sciences118 INDUCING PLURIPOTENCY IN SOMATIC CELLS FROM THE SNOW LEOPARD (PANTHERA UNCIA), AN ENDANGERED FELIDABSTRACT Induced pluripotency is a new approach to produce embryonic stem-like cells from somatic cells that provides a unique means to understand both pluripotency and lineage assignment. To investigate whether this technology could be... moreABSTRACT Induced pluripotency is a new approach to produce embryonic stem-like cells from somatic cells that provides a unique means to understand both pluripotency and lineage assignment. To investigate whether this technology could be applied to endangered species, where the limited availability of gametes makes research on embryonic stem cells difficult, we attempted generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from snow leopard (Panthera uncia) fibroblasts by retroviral transfection with Moloney-based retroviral vectors (pMX) encoding either 4 (Oct-4, Sox-2, Klf-4 and cMyc) or 5 (Oct-4, Sox-2, Klf-4, cMyc and Nanog) human transcription factors. Transduction efficiency of the retrovirus was ascertained using pMX-green fluorescent protein transgene expression and averaged 96% from 3 repeated experiments. The reprogramming efficiency of initial colony formation was 0.000308% (37/120000 cells plated) for 4-factor induction compared with 0.000517% (62/120000) for 5-factor induction. Transduction with 4 factors resulted in the formation of small colonies of cells, which could not be maintained for more than 4 passages (P4). However, addition of Nanog to the transfection cocktail produced stable iPS cell colonies, which formed as early as Day 3. Colonies of cells were selected at Day 5 and expanded in vitro on mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder cells. The resulting cell line was positive for alkaline phosphatase, Oct-4, Nanog and stage-specific embryonic antigen-4 at P14. Also, RT-PCR confirmed that endogenous Oct-4 and Nanog were expressed by snow leopard iPS cells from P4; although all 5 human transgenes were transcribed at P4, Oct-4, Sox-2 and Nanog transgenes were silenced as early as P14, suggesting that reprogramming of the endogenous pluripotent genes had occurred. When injected into immune-deficient mice, snow leopard iPS cells formed teratomas containing tissues representative of the 3 germ layers. This study describes the first derivation of iPS cells from the endangered snow leopard and is also the first report on induced pluripotency in felid species. Our results demonstrate that addition of Nanog to the reprogramming cocktail was essential for derivation of iPS lines in this felid and that iPS cells provide a unique source of pluripotent cells with utility in conservation for cryopreservation of genetics, as a source of reprogrammed donor cells for nuclear transfer or for directed differentiation to gametes in the future.Save to Libraryby Paul  Verma and +1M. Holland•Biological SciencesCryopreservation and long-term maintenance of bovine embryo-derived cell linesSave to LibraryDownloadby Paul  Verma and +1M. Holland•  11  Cryopreservation, Biological Sciences, Cell Differentiation, Animals388 OPTIMIZATION OF INDUCED PLURIPOTENT STEM CELL GENERATION FROM BOVINE FIBROBLASTSSave to LibraryDownloadby Paul  Verma•Biological Sciences
1
2
3
4
…
7
Next ›
Last »
 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023