BBC News - Profile: Wales
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Languages
Russian
Albanian
Serbian
Turkish
Ukrainian
More
Page last updated at 11:36 GMT, Wednesday, 11 January 2012

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            

Profile: Wales
Wales, a part of the United Kingdom, has retained its distinctive culture and has enjoyed a degree of autonomy since 1999. It includes a heavily industrialised south, a largely-Anglicised and prosperous farming east, and a Welsh-speaking, hill-farming North and West. 
Overview
Overview
Facts
Leaders
Media
Wales' devolved government - home rule - is now acquiring more powers and its economy is refocusing on light industry, tourism and financial services, but a small population and poor transport infrastructure continue to make development uneven. 

                            KEY DATES IN WALES
                        
1282 - Last native prince ousted
1400-15 - Owain Glyndwr rebellion 
1536 - Annexed to England
1964 - Welsh Secretary cabinet post created 
1999 - Own National Assembly opens
BBC Wales History
Welsh identity and the Welsh language have received a boost from an enlivened popular culture scene in the 1990s, and from the devolution of power from the central government in London to the Welsh National Assembly in Cardiff. But Wales's rural hinterland is still experiencing an influx of mainly English professionals that some see as a threat to Welsh culture. Wales is a large peninsula in western Britain, divided from England by major rivers and mountain ranges. It steadily fell under Norman then English rule in the Middle Ages, with the last native prince ousted in 1282. Despite the brief uprising by Owain Glyndwr (Owen Glendower) in 1400-1415, Wales was eventually annexed to England by the Laws in Wales Acts of 1535-1542, which abolished the Welsh legal system. Wales re-emerges

                            RUGBY HERO
                        
 Graham Price, icon of the national sport, represented Wales and the Lions internationally 
Rugby legend honoured
The country remained a relative backwater in Britain until the 19th century, when the south and north-east were heavily industrialised and coal and steel exports provided the basis for a substantial manufacturing industry. At the same time Wales underwent a major Methodist revival, which entrenched the Welsh language through a voluntary religious schools system. The rise of organised labour in the late 19th century made Wales an important centre for the trade union movement and the emerging Labour Party, which has dominated Welsh political life ever since. The break-up of empires after the First World War saw a revival of national consciousness in Wales as elsewhere. And after the Second World War, this began to translate into institutional change, with Wales being officially defined as legally distinct from England in 1967. In 1962 the Welsh Language Society (Cymdeithas yr Iaith Gymraeg) formed in response to fears that the language was entering a period of rapid decline through the spread of English-language media and rural depopulation. It organised high-profile civil disobedience campaigns to win the Welsh language legal status, thereby both mobilising and alienating sections of society. 

                            CULTURAL CENTRE
                        
 Wales has spawned many stars, including actor Anthony Hopkins 
BBC Wales - Arts 
Super Furry Animals
Nationalism received a boost over the flooding of the Tryweryn valley in 1965, which drowned the village of Capel Celyn to create a reservoir for Liverpool in England. The following year nationalist party Plaid Cymru won the Carmarthen seat at a by-election, and the inauguration of Prince Charles as Prince of Wales prompted a campaign of bomb attacks by the Free Wales Army and Mudiad Amddiffyn Cymru (Wales Defence Movement) on water pipes and government offices. These presaged the Meibion Glyndwr (the Sons of Glendower) campaign to fire-bomb holiday homes in rural areas in the 1970s-1990s. A referendum to set up a devolved assembly with limited powers for Wales in 1979 was heavily defeated in the highly polarised political atmosphere of the last days of the Callaghan Labour government. The subsequent Conservative government closed down much of Wales's loss-making heavy industry and tried initially to renege on an electoral commitment to set up a Welsh-language television channel. This perception that Conservative rule took too little account of Wales led to a broader consensus in favour of some measure of self-government, which led to the narrow vote in favour of a similar assembly in 1997. Analysts at the time attributed the victory to a first-time alliance between "Welsh Wales" (the Welsh-speaking north and west) and "Radical Wales" (the industrial south), against anti-devolution "English Wales" (the affluent rural east). Unlike the Scottish Parliament, the Assembly was not initially able to pass primary legislation, which has to go through Parliament in Westminster. A new Government of Wales Act of 2006 delegated power from Parliament to the Assembly, allowing it to pass "Measures" - specifically Welsh Laws - from May 2007. It also provided for a referendum to grant the Assembly further powers. The referendum was held in March 2011, at which a large majority granted the Assembly law-making powers like those in Scotland. Most of the powers of the Secretary of State for Wales were transferred to the Assembly in 1999, although the Secretary continues to ensure Welsh interests are borne in mind by the central government, represent the government within Wales, and oversees Welsh legislation through Parliament. After the 2011 referendum, Assembly presiding officer Lord Elis-Thomas called for the Welsh Office to be closed down as an irrelevance. Wales has 40 MPs out of the total of 646 in Parliament in Westminster. 
Facts
Overview
Facts
Leaders
Media
Status: Semi-autonomous part of United KingdomPopulation: 2.9 million (2001 census) Capital: Cardiff Area: 20,779 sq km (8,022 sq miles) Languages: English, Welsh Major religion: Christianity Monetary unit: 1 pound sterling = 100 pence Main exports: Sheet metal, auto parts, electronics 
Leaders
Overview
Facts
Leaders
Media
Head of State: Queen Elizabeth II Prime Minister: David Cameron First Minister (Prif Weinidog): Carwyn Jones The Government of Wales Act set up the National Assembly, which opened in 1999. Of the 60 members, 40 are elected under the First Past the Post system, with an addition 20 elected through a proportional Additional Member System of regional lists in five regions. The First Minister of Wales heads the executive Welsh Assembly Government, to which the Assembly delegates most of its powers. 
Carwyn Jones became First Minister in 2009
Labour, the largest party in Wales since before the Second World War, has led all governments since 1999 under Alun Michael, Rhodri Morgan and Carwyn Jones, either ruling alone or in coalition with the Liberal Democrats or Plaid Cymru. A Welsh-speaking barrister born in Swansea, Mr Jones has represented industrial Bridgend in the Assembly since 1999, and took over the important agriculture portfolio the following year. He became minister of education in 2007 and leader of the House in the subsequent coalition with Plaid Cymru. When Rhodri Morgan stepped down as first minister and Labour leader, Mr Jones convincingly saw off two other challengers for the posts in December 2009. His confident stewardship of the coalition and success in winning the referendum on greater powers were rewarded with a surge in support at the May 2011 Assembly elections, leaving Labour only one seat short of an overall majority. Plaid Cymru and the Liberal Democrats suffered losses, widely attributed to the compromises they made in the coalition governments in Cardiff and London respectively, and the Conservatives became the second-largest party for the first time. Mr Jones said he would form a minority government without Plaid or Liberal Democrat ministers, although both parties indicated their willingness to cooperate with Labour issue-by-issue. 
Media
Overview
Facts
Leaders
Media
Wales has one daily newspaper that aspires to national coverage. An edition of the Liverpool Daily Post caters to North Wales. There is also a lively weekly Welsh-language press, especially at the level of "papurau bro" (local newspapers), as well as one heavyweight. UK television and radio networks cover Wales, as well as BBC and commercial stations of local appeal. A largely Welsh-language TV channel called S4C broadcasts in the UK Channel 4 slot. It is partly commercial and partly funded by a UK government grant. The BBC contributes some programming to it. The BBC has two dedicated radio services for Wales, one in English and the other in Welsh. The pressThe Western Mail - Cardiff-based daily The Daily Post - Welsh edition of Liverpool daily Wales on Sunday - popular tabloid South Wales Echo - Cardiff-based evening paper South Wales Evening Post - Swansea-based evening paper Y Cymro (The Welshman) - Welsh-language weekly TelevisionBBC WalesBBC Two Wales - varied evening schedule of Welsh interest ITV Wales - commercial S4C - mainly Welsh-language channel S4C Digidol - 24-hour Welsh-language digital service RadioBBC Radio WalesBBC Radio CymruCapital FM - major commercial Cardiff FM station Real Radio Wales - commercial regional station 
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?

                E-mail this to a friend
            

 Printable version
            
Print Sponsor
COUNTRY PROFILES



A GUIDE TO EUROPE


                        Choose a country
                    

                            Albania 
                        

                            Andorra 
                        

                            Armenia 
                        

                            Austria 
                        

                            Azerbaijan 
                        

                            Belarus 
                        

                            Belgium 
                        

                            Bosnia-Herceg
                        

                            Bulgaria 
                        

                            Croatia 
                        

                            Cyprus 
                        

                            Czech Republic 
                        

                            Denmark 
                        

                            Estonia 
                        

                            Finland 
                        

                            France 
                        

                            Georgia 
                        

                            Germany 
                        

                            Greece 
                        

                            Hungary 
                        

                            Iceland 
                        

                            Ireland 
                        

                            Italy 
                        

                            Latvia 
                        

                            Liechtenstein 
                        

                            Lithuania 
                        

                            Luxembourg 
                        

                            Macedonia 
                        

                            Malta 
                        

                            Moldova 
                        

                            Monaco 
                        

                            Montenegro 
                        

                            Netherlands 
                        

                            Norway 
                        

                            Poland 
                        

                            Portugal 
                        

                            Romania 
                        

                            Russia 
                        

                            San Marino 
                        

                            Serbia 
                        

                            Slovakia
                        

                            Slovenia 
                        

                            Spain
                        

                            Sweden 
                        

                            Switzerland 
                        

                            Turkey 
                        

                            Ukraine 
                        

                            United Kingdom 
                        

                            Vatican
                        
 

                        Find a territory
                    

                            Abkhazia 
                        

                            Ajaria
                        

                            Catalonia 
                        

                            Ceuta, Melilla 
                        

                            Channel Islands 
                        

                            Chechnya 
                        

                            Corsica
                        

                            Crimea 
                        

                            Dagestan
                        

                            Faroe Islands 
                        

                            Gibraltar 
                        

                            Greenland 
                        

                            Ingushetia 
                        

                            Isle of Man 
                        

                            Kabardino-Balkar
                        

                            Kaliningrad 
                        

                            Kalmykia
                        

                            Karachay-Cherkes
                        

                            Kosovo 
                        

                            Nagorno-Karabakh
                        

                            North Ossetia
                        

                            South Ossetia 
                        

                            Trans-Dniester 
                        
 



Compiled by BBC Monitoring


                GUIDE TO UNITED KINGDOM
            

                            England
                        

                            Northern Ireland
                        

                            Scotland
                        

                            Wales
                        

                            United Kingdom 
                        
 

                UK TERRITORIES
            

                            Anguilla 
                        

                            Bermuda
                        

                            Brit Virgin Isla
                        

                            Cayman Islands 
                        

                            Gibraltar 
                        

                            Falkland Islands
                        

                            Montserrat 
                        

                            St Helena, Ascen
                        

                            Turks and Caicos
                        
 

                                SEE ALSO
                        
Proposed boundary changes revealed

11 Jan 12 | 
Wales

Wales says Yes in referendum vote

07 Mar 11 | 
Wales politics


RELATED BBC LINKS


BBC Wales


BBC Cymru (in Welsh)


                                        RELATED INTERNET LINKS
                                        
                                

                                                        Welsh Assembly Government
                                                        
                                                

                                                        National Assembly for Wales
                                                        
                                                

                                                        Wales Office
                                                        
                                                

                                                        Institute of Welsh Affairs
                                                        
                                                

                                                The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
                                        
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Tourists flock to 'Jesus's tomb' in Kashmir
Most popular now, in detail 
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail 
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Indonesia's female 'devil wheel' riders
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail 



FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS

Ghost town




Has China's housing bubble burst?



The guerilla plant 




How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire



Walking away




Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit



Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
 
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts