Indonesian language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Early kingdoms era
1.2Old Malay as lingua franca
1.3The colonial era and birth of the Indonesian language
1.4Adoption as national language
1.5Modern and colloquial Indonesian
2Classification and related languages
3Geographical distribution
Toggle Geographical distribution subsection
3.1Indonesian as a foreign language
4Official status
5Official Policy
6Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
6.1Vowels
6.1.1Diphthongs
6.2Consonants
6.3Stress
6.4Rhythm
7Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
7.1Affixes
7.1.1Noun affixes
7.1.2Verb affixes
7.1.3Adjective affixes
7.2Nouns
7.2.1Gender
7.2.2Number
7.3Pronouns
7.3.1Personal pronouns
7.3.2Possessive pronouns
7.3.3Demonstrative pronouns
7.4Verbs
7.4.1Negation
7.4.2Prohibition
7.5Adjectives
7.6Word order
7.6.1Emphasis
7.7Measure words
8Writing system
Toggle Writing system subsection
8.1Letter names and pronunciations
9Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
9.1Loan words of Sanskrit origin
9.2Loan words of Chinese origin
9.3Loan words of Arabic origin
9.4Loan words of Portuguese origin
9.5Loan words of Dutch origin
9.6Loan words of English origin
9.7Other loan words
9.8Acronyms and portmanteau
10Literature
11As speakers of other languages
12Words
Toggle Words subsection
12.1Numbers
12.1.1Cardinal
12.1.2Ordinal
12.2Days and months
12.2.1Days
12.2.2Months
12.3Common phrases
12.4Example
13See also
14References
15External links
Toggle External links subsection
15.1English-Indonesian dictionaries
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Indonesian language
139 languages
AcèhAfrikaansአማርኛअंगिकाالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBasa BaliবাংলাBanjarBân-lâm-gúBasa BanyumasanБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)भोजपुरीBikol CentralБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaIsiZuluÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaಕನ್ನಡქართულიKernowekKiswahiliКомиKurdîລາວLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLi NihaLigureLingua Franca NovaMagyarमैथिलीМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMāoriमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟMinangkabau閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄Nederlandsनेपाली日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوភាសាខ្មែរPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаGagana Samoaसंस्कृतम्ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVahcuenghTiếng ViệtVolapükVõroWalonWinaray吴语粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Official language of Indonesia
This article is about the official language of Indonesia. For an overview on all languages used in Indonesia, see Languages of Indonesia.
IndonesianBahasa IndonesiaPronunciation[baˈha.sa in.doˈne.si.ja]Native toIndonesiaEthnicityIndonesiansNative speakersL1 speakers: 43 million (2010 census)[1]L2 speakers: 156 million (2010 census)[1] 300 million (2022)[2]Language familyAustronesian
Malayo-PolynesianMalayicMalayIndonesianEarly formsOld Malay
Classical Malay (Johor-Riau Malay)[3][4][5]
Pre-Modern Malay (Netherlands Indies Malay/Balai Pustaka Malay)
Standard forms
Standard Indonesian
Dialects
Colloquial Indonesian (especially Colloquial Jakarta Indonesian)[6]
Writing systemLatin (Indonesian alphabet)Indonesian BrailleSigned formsBISINDO (Indonesian Sign Language)Official statusOfficial language in IndonesiaRecognised minoritylanguage in East Timor (Indonesian used as a working language and a trade language with Indonesia)[7]Regulated byLanguage Development and Fostering Agency (Badan Pengembangan dan Pembinaan Bahasa)Language codesISO 639-1idISO 639-2indISO 639-3indGlottologindo1316Linguasphere31-MFA-ac  Countries of the world where Indonesian is a majority native language
  Countries where Indonesian is a minority languageThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Indonesian speaker
Indonesian (bahasa Indonesia [baˈhasa indoˈnesija]) is the official and national language of Indonesia.[8] It is a standardized variety of Malay,[9] an Austronesian language that has been used as a lingua franca in the multilingual Indonesian archipelago for centuries. Indonesia is the fourth most populous nation in the world, with over 270 million[10] inhabitants of which the majority speak Indonesian, which makes it one of the most widely spoken languages in the world.[11] Indonesian vocabulary has been influenced by various languages, including Javanese, Minangkabau, Buginese, Banjarese, Arabic, Dutch, and English. Many borrowed words have been adapted to fit the phonetic and grammatical rules of Indonesian.
Most Indonesians, aside from speaking the national language, are fluent in at least one of the more than 700 indigenous local languages; examples include Javanese and Sundanese, which are commonly used at home and within the local community.[12][13] However, most formal education and nearly all national mass media, governance, administration, and judiciary and other forms of communication are conducted in Indonesian.[14]
Under Indonesian rule from 1976 to 1999, Indonesian was designated as the official language of Timor Leste. It has the status of a working language under the country's constitution along with English.[7][15]: 3 [16]
The term Indonesian is primarily associated with the national standard dialect (bahasa baku).[17] However, in a looser sense, it also encompasses the various local varieties spoken throughout the Indonesian archipelago.[9][18] Standard Indonesian is confined mostly to formal situations, existing in a diglossic relationship with vernacular Malay varieties, which are commonly used for daily communication, coexisting with the aforementioned regional languages.[17][12]
The Indonesian name for the language (bahasa Indonesia) is also occasionally used in English and other languages. Bahasa Indonesia is sometimes reduced to Bahasa, which refers to the Indonesian subject (Bahasa Indonesia) taught in schools, on the assumption that this is the name of the language. But the word bahasa only means language. For example, Korean language is translated as bahasa Korea, and the same applies to other languages, such as bahasa Inggris (English), bahasa Jepang (Japanese), bahasa Arab (Arabic), bahasa Italia (Italian), and so on. Indonesians generally may not recognize the name Bahasa alone when it refers to their national language.[19]
History[edit]
Early kingdoms era[edit]
Rencong alphabet, native writing systems found in central and South Sumatra. The text reads (Voorhoeve's spelling): "haku manangis ma / njaru ka'u ka'u di / saru tijada da / tang [hitu hadik sa]", which is translated by Voorhoeve as: "I am weeping, calling you; though called, you do not come" (in modern Malay "Aku menangis, menyerukan engkau, kaudiseru, tiada datang [itu adik satu]").
Kedukan Bukit Inscription, written in Pallava script, is the oldest surviving specimen of the Old Malay language.Standard Indonesian is a standard language of "Riau Malay",[4][20] which despite its common name is not based on the vernacular Malay dialects of the Riau Islands, but rather represents a form of Classical Malay as used in the 19th and early 20th centuries in the Riau-Lingga Sultanate. Classical Malay had emerged as a literary language in the royal courts along both shores of the Strait of Malacca, including the Johor Sultanate and Malacca Sultanate.[21][22][23] Originally spoken in Northeast Sumatra,[24] Malay has been used as a lingua franca in the Indonesian archipelago for half a millennium. It might be attributed to its ancestor, the Old Malay language (which can be traced back to the 7th century). The Kedukan Bukit Inscription is the oldest surviving specimen of Old Malay, the language used by Srivijayan empire.[25] Since the 7th century, the Old Malay language has been used in Nusantara (archipelago) (Indonesian archipelago), evidenced by Srivijaya inscriptions and by other inscriptions from coastal areas of the archipelago, such as Sojomerto inscription.[25]
Old Malay as lingua franca[edit]
For centuries, Srivijaya, through its expansion, economic power and military prowess, was responsible for the widespread of Old Malay throughout the Malay Archipelago. It was the working language of traders and it was used in various ports, and marketplaces in the region.[26]
Trade contacts carried on by various ethnic peoples at the time were the main vehicle for spreading the Old Malay language, which was the main communications medium among the traders. Ultimately, the Old Malay language became a lingua franca and was spoken widely by most people in the archipelago.[27][28]
Indonesian (in its standard form) has essentially the same material basis as the Malaysian standard of Malay and is therefore considered to be a variety of the pluricentric Malay language. However, it does differ from Malaysian Malay in several respects, with differences in pronunciation and vocabulary. These differences are due mainly to the Dutch and Javanese influences on Indonesian. Indonesian was also influenced by the Melayu pasar (lit. 'market Malay'), which was the lingua franca of the archipelago in colonial times, and thus indirectly by other spoken languages of the islands.
Malaysian Malay claims to be closer to the classical Malay of earlier centuries, even though modern Malaysian has been heavily influenced, in lexicon as well as in syntax, by English. The question of whether High Malay (Court Malay) or Low Malay (Bazaar Malay) was the true parent of the Indonesian language is still in debate. High Malay was the official language used in the court of the Johor Sultanate and continued by the Dutch-administered territory of Riau-Lingga, while Low Malay was commonly used in marketplaces and ports of the archipelago. Some linguists have argued that it was the more common Low Malay that formed the base of the Indonesian language.[29]
The colonial era and birth of the Indonesian language[edit]
When the Dutch East India Company (VOC) first arrived in the archipelago at the start of the 1600s, the Malay language was a significant trading and political language due to the influence of Malaccan Sultanate and later the Portuguese. However, the language had never been dominant among the population of the Indonesian archipelago as it was limited to mercantile activity. The VOC adopted the Malay language as the administrative language of their trading outpost in the east. Following the bankruptcy of the VOC, the Batavian Republic took control of the colony in 1799, and it was only then that education in and promotion of Dutch began in the colony. Even then, Dutch administrators were remarkably reluctant to promote the use of Dutch compared to other colonial regimes. Dutch thus remained the language of a small elite: in 1940, only 2% of the total population could speak Dutch. Nevertheless, it did have a significant influence on the development of Malay in the colony: during the colonial era, the language that would be standardized as Indonesian absorbed a large amount of Dutch vocabulary in the form of loanwords.
Volksraad session held in July 1938 in Jakarta, where Indonesian was formally used for the first time by Jahja Datoek Kajo
The nationalist movement that ultimately brought Indonesian to its national language status rejected Dutch from the outset. However, the rapid disappearance of Dutch was a very unusual case compared with other colonized countries, where the colonial language generally has continued to function as the language of politics, bureaucracy, education, technology, and other fields of importance for a significant time after independence.[30] The Indonesian scholar Soenjono Dardjowidjojo [id] even goes so far as to say that when compared to the situation in other Asian countries such as India, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines, "Indonesian is perhaps the only language that has achieved the status of a national language in its true sense" since it truly dominates in all spheres of Indonesian society.[31] The ease with which Indonesia eliminated the language of its former colonial power can perhaps be explained as much by Dutch policy as by Indonesian nationalism. In marked contrast to the French, Spanish and Portuguese, who pursued an assimilation colonial policy, or even the British, the Dutch did not attempt to spread their language among the indigenous population. In fact, they consciously prevented the language from being spread by refusing to provide education, especially in Dutch, to the native Indonesians so they would not come to see themselves as equals.[30] Moreover, the Dutch wished to prevent the Indonesians from elevating their perceived social status by taking on elements of Dutch culture. Thus, until the 1930s, they maintained a minimalist regime and allowed Malay to spread quickly throughout the archipelago.
Dutch dominance at that time covered nearly all aspects, with official forums requiring the use of Dutch, although since the Second Youth Congress (1928) the use of Indonesian as the national language was agreed on as one of the tools in the independence struggle. As of it, Mohammad Hoesni Thamrin inveighed actions underestimating Indonesian. After some criticism and protests, the use of Indonesian was allowed since the Volksraad sessions held in July 1938.[32] By the time they tried to counter the spread of Malay by teaching Dutch to the natives, it was too late, and in 1942, the Japanese conquered Indonesia. The Japanese mandated that all official business be conducted in Indonesian and quickly outlawed the use of the Dutch language.[33] Three years later, the Indonesians themselves formally abolished the language and established bahasa Indonesia as the national language of the new nation.[34] The term bahasa Indonesia itself had been proposed by Mohammad Tabrani in 1926,[35] and Tabrani had further proposed the term over calling the language Malay language during the First Youth Congress in 1926.[36]
Indonesian language (old VOS spelling):Jang dinamakan 'Bahasa Indonesia' jaitoe bahasa Melajoe jang soenggoehpoen pokoknja berasal dari 'Melajoe Riaoe' akan tetapi jang soedah ditambah, dioebah ataoe dikoerangi menoeroet keperloean zaman dan alam baharoe, hingga bahasa itoe laloe moedah dipakai oleh rakjat diseloeroeh Indonesia; pembaharoean bahasa Melajoe hingga menjadi bahasa Indonesia itoe haroes dilakoekan oleh kaoem ahli jang beralam baharoe, ialah alam kebangsaan Indonesia
Indonesian (modern EYD spelling):
Yang dinamakan 'Bahasa Indonesia' yaitu bahasa Melayu yang sungguhpun pokoknya berasal dari 'Melayu Riau' akan tetapi yang sudah ditambah, diubah atau dikurangi menurut keperluan zaman dan alam baru, hingga bahasa itu lalu mudah dipakai oleh rakyat di seluruh Indonesia; pembaharuan bahasa Melayu hingga menjadi bahasa Indonesia itu harus dilakukan oleh kaum ahli yang beralam baru, ialah alam kebangsaan Indonesia
English:
"What is named as 'Indonesian language' is a true Malay language derived from 'Riau Malay' but which had been added, modified or subscribed according to the requirements of the new age and nature, until it was then used easily by people across Indonesia; the renewal of Malay language until it became Indonesian it had to be done by the experts of the new nature, the national nature of Indonesia"
— Ki Hajar Dewantara in the Congress of Indonesian Language I 1938, Solo[37][38]
Several years prior to the congress, Swiss linguist, Renward Brandstetter wrote An Introduction to Indonesian Linguistics in 4 essays from 1910 to 1915. The essays were translated into English in 1916. By "Indonesia", he meant the name of the geographical region, and by "Indonesian languages" he meant languages in the region, because by that time there was still no notion of Indonesian language.[clarification needed]
Sutan Takdir Alisjahbana was a great promoter of the use and development of Indonesian and he was greatly exaggerating the decline of Dutch. Higher education was still in Dutch and many educated Indonesians were writing and speaking in Dutch in many situations (and were still doing so well after independence was achieved). He believed passionately in the need to develop Indonesian so that it could take its place as a fully adequate national language, able to replace Dutch as a means of entry into modern international culture. In 1933, he began the magazine Pujangga Baru (New Writer — Poedjangga Baroe in the original spelling) with co-editors Amir Hamzah and Armijn Pane. The language of Pujangga Baru came in for criticism from those associated with the more classical School Malay and it was accused of publishing Dutch written with an Indonesian vocabulary. Alisjahbana would no doubt have taken the criticism as a demonstration of his success. To him the language of Pujangga Baru pointed the way to the future, to an elaborated, Westernised language able to express all the concepts of the modern world. As an example, among the many innovations they condemned was use of the word bisa instead of dapat for 'can'. In Malay bisa meant only 'poison from an animal's bite' and the increasing use of Javanese bisa in the new meaning they regarded as one of the many threats to the language's purity. Unlike more traditional intellectuals, he did not look to Classical Malay and the past. For him, Indonesian was a new concept; a new beginning was needed and he looked to Western civilisation, with its dynamic society of individuals freed from traditional fetters, as his inspiration.[11]
The prohibition on use of Dutch led to an expansion of Indonesian language newspapers and pressure on them to increase the language's wordstock. The Japanese agreed to the establishment of the Komisi Bahasa (Language Commission) in October 1942, formally headed by three Japanese but with a number of prominent Indonesian intellectuals playing the major part in its activities. Soewandi, later to be Minister of Education and Culture, was appointed secretary, Alisjahbana was appointed an 'expert secretary' and other members included the future president and vice-president, Sukarno and Hatta. Journalists, beginning a practice that has continued to the present, did not wait for the Komisi Bahasa to provide new words, but actively participated themselves in coining terms. Many of the Komisi Bahasa's terms never found public acceptance and after the Japanese period were replaced by the original Dutch forms, including jantera (Sanskrit for 'wheel'), which temporarily replaced mesin (machine), ketua negara (literally 'chairman of state'), which had replaced presiden (president) and kilang (meaning 'mill'), which had replaced pabrik (factory). In a few cases, however, coinings permanently replaced earlier Dutch terms, including pajak (earlier meaning 'monopoly') instead of belasting (tax) and senam (meaning 'exercise') instead of gimnastik (gymnastics). The Komisi Bahasa is said to have coined more than 7000 terms, although few of these gained common acceptance.[11]
Adoption as national language[edit]
The Youth Pledge was the result of the Second Youth Congress held in Batavia in October 1928. On the last pledge, there was an affirmation of Indonesian language as a unifying language throughout the archipelago.
The adoption of Indonesian as the country's national language was in contrast to most other post-colonial states. Neither the language with the most native speakers (Javanese) nor the language of the former European colonial power (Dutch) was to be adopted. Instead, a local language with far fewer native speakers than the most widely spoken local language was chosen (nevertheless, Malay was the second most widely spoken language in the colony after Javanese, and had many L2 speakers using it for trade, administration, and education).
In 1945, when Indonesia declared its independence, Indonesian was formally declared the national language,[8] despite being the native language of only about 5% of the population. In contrast, Javanese and Sundanese were the mother tongues of 42–48% and 15% respectively.[39] The combination of nationalistic, political, and practical concerns ultimately led to the successful adoption of Indonesian as a national language.
In 1945, Javanese was easily the most prominent language in Indonesia. It was the native language of nearly half the population, the primary language of politics and economics, and the language of courtly, religious, and literary tradition.[30] What it lacked, however, was the ability to unite the diverse Indonesian population as a whole. With thousands of islands and hundreds of different languages, the newly independent country of Indonesia had to find a national language that could realistically be spoken by the majority of the population and that would not divide the nation by favouring one ethnic group, namely the Javanese, over the others. In 1945, Indonesian was already in widespread use;[39] in fact, it had been for roughly a thousand years. Over that long period, Malay, which would later become standardized as Indonesian, was the primary language of commerce and travel. It was also the language used for the propagation of Islam in the 13th to 17th centuries, as well as the language of instruction used by Portuguese and Dutch missionaries attempting to convert the indigenous people to Christianity.[30] The combination of these factors meant that the language was already known to some degree by most of the population, and it could be more easily adopted as the national language than perhaps any other. Moreover, it was the language of the sultanate of Brunei and of future Malaysia, on which some Indonesian nationalists had claims.
Over the first 53 years of Indonesian independence, the country's first two presidents, Sukarno and Suharto constantly nurtured the sense of national unity embodied by Indonesian, and the language remains an essential component of Indonesian identity. Through a language planning program that made Indonesian the language of politics, education, and nation-building in general, Indonesian became one of the few success stories of an indigenous language effectively overtaking that of a country's colonisers to become the de jure and de facto official language.[34] Today, Indonesian continues to function as the language of national identity as the Congress of Indonesian Youth envisioned, and also serves as the language of education, literacy, modernization, and social mobility.[34] Despite still being a second language to most Indonesians, it is unquestionably the language of the Indonesian nation as a whole, as it has had unrivalled success as a factor in nation-building and the strengthening of Indonesian identity.
Modern and colloquial Indonesian[edit]
Further information: Indonesian slang
Road signs in an airport terminal
Toll gate in Bali
Indonesian language used on a Kopaja bus advertisement
Indonesian is spoken as a mother tongue and national language. Over 200 million people regularly make use of the national language, with varying degrees of proficiency. In a nation that is home to more than 700 native languages and a vast array of ethnic groups, it plays an important unifying and cross-archipelagic role for the country. Use of the national language is abundant in the media, government bodies, schools, universities, workplaces, among members of the upper-class or nobility and also in formal situations, despite the 2010 census showing only 19.94% of over-five-year-olds speak mainly Indonesian at home.[40]
Standard Indonesian is used in books and newspapers and on television/radio news broadcasts. The standard dialect, however, is rarely used in daily conversations, being confined mostly to formal settings. While this is a phenomenon common to most languages in the world (for example, spoken English does not always correspond to its written standards), the proximity of spoken Indonesian (in terms of grammar and vocabulary) to its normative form is noticeably low. This is mostly due to Indonesians combining aspects of their own local languages (e.g., Javanese, Sundanese, and Balinese) with Indonesian. This results in various vernacular varieties of Indonesian, the very types that a foreigner is most likely to hear upon arriving in any Indonesian city or town.[41] This phenomenon is amplified by the use of Indonesian slang, particularly in the cities. Unlike the relatively uniform standard variety, Vernacular Indonesian exhibits a high degree of geographical variation, though Colloquial Jakartan Indonesian functions as the de facto norm of informal language and is a popular source of influence throughout the archipelago.[17] There is language shift of first language among Indonesian into Indonesian from other language in Indonesia caused by ethnic diversity than urbanicity.[42]
The most common and widely used colloquial Indonesian is heavily influenced by the Betawi language, a Malay-based creole of Jakarta, amplified by its popularity in Indonesian popular culture in mass media and Jakarta's status as the national capital. In informal spoken Indonesian, various words are replaced with those of a less formal nature. For example, tidak (no) is often replaced with the Betawi form nggak or the even simpler gak/ga, while seperti (like, similar to) is often replaced with kayak [kajaʔ]. Sangat or amat (very), the term to express intensity, is often being replaced with the Javanese-influenced banget. As for pronunciation, the diphthongs ai and au on the end of base words are typically pronounced as /e/ and /o/. In informal writing, the spelling of words is modified to reflect the actual pronunciation in a way that can be produced with less effort. For example, capai becomes cape or capek, pakai becomes pake, kalau becomes kalo. In verbs, the prefix me- is often dropped, although an initial nasal consonant is often retained, as when mengangkat becomes ngangkat (the basic word is angkat). The suffixes -kan and -i are often replaced by -in. For example, mencarikan becomes nyariin, menuruti becomes nurutin. The latter grammatical aspect is one often closely related to the Indonesian spoken in Jakarta and its surrounding areas.
Classification and related languages[edit]
See also: Austronesian languages § Cross-linguistic Comparison Chart
Malay historical linguists agree on the likelihood of the Malay homeland being in western Borneo stretching to the Bruneian coast.[43] A form known as Proto-Malay language was spoken in Borneo at least by 1000 BCE and was, it has been argued, the ancestral language of all subsequent Malayan languages. Its ancestor, Proto-Malayo-Polynesian, a descendant of the Proto-Austronesian language, began to break up by at least 2000 BCE, possibly as a result of the southward expansion of Austronesian peoples into Maritime Southeast Asia from the island of Taiwan.[44] Indonesian, which originated from Malay, is a member of the Austronesian family of languages, which includes languages from Southeast Asia, the Pacific Ocean and Madagascar, with a smaller number in continental Asia. It has a degree of mutual intelligibility with the Malaysian standard of Malay, which is officially known there as bahasa Malaysia, despite the numerous lexical differences.[45] However, vernacular varieties spoken in Indonesia and Malaysia share limited intelligibility, which is evidenced by the fact that Malaysians have difficulties understanding Indonesian sinetron (soap opera) aired on Malaysia TV stations, and vice versa.[46]
Malagasy, a geographic outlier spoken in Madagascar in the Indian Ocean; the Philippines national language, Filipino; Formosan in Taiwan's aboriginal population; and the native Māori language of New Zealand are also members of this language family. Although each language of the family is mutually unintelligible, their similarities are rather striking. Many roots have come virtually unchanged from their common ancestor, Proto-Austronesian language. There are many cognates found in the languages' words for kinship, health, body parts and common animals. Numbers, especially, show remarkable similarities.
Numbers in Austronesian languages
Language
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
PAN, c. 4000 BCE
*isa
*DuSa
*telu
*Sepat
*lima
*enem
*pitu
*walu
*Siwa
*puluq
Malay/Indonesian
satu
dua
tiga
empat
lima
enam
tujuh
lapan/delapan
sembilan
sepuluh
Amis
cecay
tusa
tulu
sepat
lima
enem
pitu
falu
siwa
pulu'
Sundanese
hiji
dua
tilu
opat
lima
genep
tujuh
dalapan
salapan
sapuluh
Tsou
coni
yuso
tuyu
sʉptʉ
eimo
nomʉ
pitu
voyu
sio
maskʉ
Tagalog
isá
dalawá
tatló
ápat
limá
ánim
pitó
waló
siyám
sampu
Ilocano
maysá
dua
talló
uppát
limá
inném
pitó
waló
siam
sangapúlo
Cebuano
usá
duhá
tuló
upat
limá
unom
pitó
waló
siyám
napulu
Chamorro
maisa/håcha
hugua
tulu
fatfat
lima
gunum
fiti
guålu
sigua
månot/fulu
Malagasy
iray/isa
roa
telo
efatra
dimy
enina
fito
valo
sivy
folo
Cham
sa
dua
klau
pak
limâ
nam
tajuh
dalipan
thalipan
pluh
Toba Batak
sada
dua
tolu
opat
lima
onom
pitu
ualu
sia
sampulu
Minangkabau
ciek
duo
tigo
ampek
limo
anam
tujuah
salapan
sambilan
sapuluah
Rejang[47]
do
duai
tlau
pat
lêmo
num
tujuak
dêlapên
sêmbilan
sêpuluak
Javanese
siji
loro
telu
papat
lima
nem
pitu
wolu
sanga
sepuluh
Tetun
ida
rua
tolu
hat
lima
nen
hitu
ualu
sia
sanulu
Biak
eser/oser
suru
kyor
fyak
rim
wonem
fik
war
siw
samfur
Fijian
dua
rua
tolu
vā
lima
ono
vitu
walu
ciwa
tini
Kiribati
teuana
uoua
teniua
aua
nimaua
onoua
itiua
waniua
ruaiua
tebuina
Sāmoan
tasi
lua
tolu
fā
lima
ono
fitu
valu
iva
sefulu
Hawaiian
kahi
lua
kolu
hā
lima
ono
hiku
walu
iwa
-'umi
There are more than 700 local languages in Indonesian islands, such as Javanese, Sundanese, etc. While, Malay as the source of Indonesian is mother tongue of ethnic Malay who lives along east coast of Sumatra, in Riau Archipelago, south and west coast of Kalimantan (Borneo). There are several areas, such as Jakarta, Manado, Lesser Sunda islands, and Mollucas which has Malay-based trade languages. Thus, a large proportion of Indonesian, at least, use two language daily, those are Indonesian and local languages. When two languages are used by the same people in this way, they are likely to influence each other.[48]
Aside from local languages, Dutch made the highest contribution to the Indonesian vocabulary, due to the Dutch's colonization for over three centuries, from the 16th century until the mid-20th century.[49][50][48] Asian languages also influenced the language, with Chinese influencing Indonesian during the 15th and 16th centuries due to the spice trade; Sanskrit, Tamil, Prakrit and Hindi contributing during the flourishing of Hindu and Buddhist kingdoms from the 2nd to the 14th century; followed by Arabic after the spread of Islam in the archipelago in the 13th century.[51] Loanwords from Portuguese were mainly connected with articles that the early European traders and explorers brought to Southeast Asia. Indonesian also receives many English words as a result of globalization and modernization, especially since the 1990s, as far as the Internet's emergence and development until the present day.[52] Some Indonesian words correspond to Malay loanwords in English, among them the common words orangutan, gong, bamboo, rattan, sarong, and the less common words such as paddy, sago and kapok, all of which were inherited in Indonesian from Malay but borrowed from Malay in English. The phrase "to run amok" comes from the Malay verb amuk (to run out of control, to rage).[53][54][55][56]
Indonesian is neither a pidgin nor a creole since its characteristics do not meet any of the criteria for either. It is believed that the Indonesian language was one of the means to achieve independence, but it is opened to receive vocabulary from other foreign languages aside from Malay that it has made contact with since the colonialism era, such as Dutch, English and Arabic among others, as the loan words keep increasing each year.[57]
Geographical distribution[edit]
Location where Indonesian language seen as the business language which taught in schools, colleges, universities, institutions, etc.
In 2010, Indonesian had 42.8 million native speakers and 154.9 million second-language speakers,[1] who speak it alongside their local mother tongue, giving a total number of speakers in Indonesia of 197.7 million.[1] It is common as a first language in urban areas, and as a second language by those residing in more rural parts of Indonesia.
The VOA and BBC use Indonesian as their standard for broadcasting in Malay.[58][59] In Australia, Indonesian is one of three Asian target languages, together with Japanese and Mandarin, taught in some schools as part of the Languages Other Than English programme.[60] Indonesian has been taught in Australian schools and universities since the 1950s.[61]
In East Timor, which was occupied by Indonesia between 1975 and 1999, Indonesian is recognized by the constitution as one of the two working languages (the other being English), alongside the official languages of Tetum and Portuguese.[7] It is understood by the Malay people of Australia's Cocos Keeling Islands in the Indian Ocean, also in some parts of the Sulu area of the southern Philippines and traces of it are to be found among people of Malay descent in Sri Lanka, South Africa, and other places.[14]
Indonesian as a foreign language[edit]
Indonesian is taught as a foreign language in schools, universities and institutions around the world, especially in Australia, the Netherlands, Japan, South Korea, Timor Leste, Vietnam, Taiwan, the United States, and England.[62][63][64][65][66][67][68][69][70][71][non-primary source needed]
Official status[edit]
Indonesian is also the language of Indonesian mass media, such as magazines. Printed and broadcast mass media are encouraged to use standard Indonesian, although more relaxed popular slang often prevails.
Indonesian is the official language of Indonesia, and its use is encouraged throughout the Indonesian archipelago. It is regulated in Chapter XV, 1945 Constitution of Indonesia about the flag, official language, coat of arms, and national anthem of Indonesia.[8] Also, in Chapter III, Section 25 to 45, Government regulation No. 24/ 2009 mentions explicitly the status of the Indonesian language.[72]
The national language is Indonesian.— Article 36, Chapter XV, Constitution of Indonesia[8]
Indonesian functions as a symbol of national identity and pride, and is a lingua franca among the diverse ethnic groups in Indonesia. The language serves as the national and official language, the language of education, communication, transaction and trade documentation, the development of national culture, science, technology, and mass media. It also serves as a vehicle of communication among the provinces and different regional cultures in the country.[72]
Indonesian is used in schools.
According to Indonesian law, the Indonesian language was proclaimed as the unifying language during the Youth Pledge on 28 October 1928 and developed further to accommodate the dynamics of Indonesian civilization.[72] As mentioned previously, the language was based on Riau Malay,[4][73] though linguists note that this is not the local dialect of Riau, but the Malaccan dialect that was used in the Riau court.[22] Since its conception in 1928 and its official recognition in the 1945 Constitution, the Indonesian language has been loaded with a nationalist political agenda to unify Indonesia (former Dutch East Indies). This status has made it relatively open to accommodate influences from other Indonesian ethnic languages, most notably Javanese as the majority ethnic group, and Dutch as the previous coloniser. Compared to the indigenous dialects of Malay spoken in Sumatra and Malay peninsula or the normative Malaysian standard, the Indonesian language differs profoundly by a large amount of Javanese loanwords incorporated into its already-rich vocabulary. As a result, Indonesian has more extensive sources of loanwords, compared to Malaysian Malay.
The disparate evolution of Indonesian and Malaysian has led to a rift between the two standardized varieties. This has been based more upon political nuance and the history of their standardization than cultural reasons, and as a result, there are asymmetrical views regarding each other's variety among Malaysians and Indonesians. Malaysians tend to assert that Malaysian and Indonesian are merely different normative varieties of the same language, while Indonesians tend to treat them as separate, albeit closely related, languages. Consequently, Indonesians feel little need to harmonise their language with Malaysia and Brunei, whereas Malaysians are keener to coordinate the evolution of the language with Indonesians,[74] although the 1972 Indonesian alphabet reform was seen mainly as a concession of Dutch-based Indonesian to the English-based spelling of Malaysian.
Official Policy[edit]
As regulated by Indonesian state law UU No 24/2009, other than state official speeches and documents between or issued to Indonesian government, Indonesian language is required by law to be used in:[75]
Official speeches by the president, vice president, and other state officials delivered within or outside Indonesia
Agreements involving either government, private institutions, or individuals
National or international forums held in Indonesia
Scientific papers and publications in Indonesia
Geographical names in Indonesia (name of buildings, roads, offices, complexes, institutions)
Public signs, road signs, public facilities, banners, and other information of public services in public area.
Information through mass media
However, other languages may be used in dual-language setting to accompany but not to replace Indonesian language in: agreements, information regarding goods / services, scientific papers, information through mass media, geographical names, public signs, road signs, public facilities, banners, and other information of public services in public area.[75]
While there are no sanctions of the uses of other languages,[75] in Indonesian court's point of view, any agreements made in Indonesia but not drafted in Indonesian language, is null and void.[76] In any different interpretations in dual-language agreements setting, Indonesian language shall prevail.[77]
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Malay phonology
Vowels[edit]
Indonesian has six vowel phonemes as shown in the table below.[78][79]
Table of vowel phonemes of Indonesian
Front
Central
Back
Close
/i/
/u/
Close-Mid
/e/
/ə/
/o/
Open
/a/
In standard Indonesian orthography, the Latin alphabet is used, and five vowels are distinguished: a, i, u, e, o. In materials for learners, the mid-front vowel /e/ is sometimes represented with a diacritic as ⟨é⟩ to distinguish it from the mid-central vowel ⟨ê⟩ /ə/. Since 2015, the auxiliary graphemes ⟨é⟩ and ⟨è⟩ are used respectively for phonetic [e] and [ɛ] in Indonesian, while Standard Malay has rendered both of them as ⟨é⟩.[80]
The phonetic realization of the mid vowels /e/ and /o/ ranges from close-mid ([e]/[o]) to open-mid ([ɛ]/[ɔ]) allophones. Some analyses set up a system which treats the open-mid vowels /ɛ/ and /ɔ/ as distinct phonemes.[81] Poedjosoedarmo argued the split of the front mid vowels in Indonesian is due to Javanese influence which exhibits a difference between ⟨i⟩ [i], ⟨é⟩ [e] and è [ɛ]. Another example of Javanese influence in Indonesian is the split of back mid vowels into two allophones of [o] and [ɔ]. These splits (and loanwords) increase instances of doublets in Indonesian, such as ⟨satai⟩ and ⟨saté⟩. Javanese words adopted into Indonesian have greatly increased the frequency of Indonesian ⟨é⟩ and ⟨o⟩.[48]
High vowels (⟨i⟩, ⟨u⟩) could not appear in a final syllable in traditional Malay if a mid-vowel (⟨e⟩, ⟨o⟩) happened in the previous syllable, and mid-vowels could not occur in the final syllable if a high vowel was present in the second-to-last syllable.[11]
Traditional Malay does not allow the mid-central schwa vowel to occur in consonant open or closed word-final syllables. The schwa vowel was introduced in closed syllables under the influence of Javanese and Jakarta Malay, but Dutch borrowings made it more acceptable. Although Alisjahbana argued against it, insisting on writing ⟨a⟩ instead of an ⟨ê⟩ in final syllables such as koda (vs kodə 'code') and nasionalisma (vs nasionalismə 'nationalism'), he was unsuccessful.[11] This spelling convention was instead survived in Balinese orthography.
Diphthongs[edit]
Indonesian has four diphthong phonemes only in open syllables.[82] They are:
/ai̯/: kedai ('shop'), pandai ('clever')
/au̯/: kerbau ('buffalo'), limau ('lime')
/oi̯/ (or /ʊi̯/ in Indonesian): amboi ('wow'), toilet ('toilet')
/ei̯/: survei ('survey'), geiser ('geyser')
Some analyses assume that these diphthongs are actually a monophthong followed by an approximant, so ⟨ai⟩ represents /aj/, ⟨au⟩ represents /aw/, and ⟨oi⟩ represents /oj/. On this basis, there are no phonological diphthongs in Indonesian.[83]
Diphthongs are differentiated from two vowels in two syllables, such as:
/a.i/: e.g. lain ('other') [la.in], air ('water') [a.ir]
/a.u/: bau ('smell') [ba.u], laut ('sea') [la.ut]
Consonants[edit]
Indonesian consonant phonemes
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
ŋ
Plosive/Affricate
voiceless
p
t̪
t͡ʃ
k
(ʔ)
voiced
b
d
d͡ʒ
ɡ
Fricative
voiceless
(f)
s
(ʃ)
(x)
h
voiced
(v)
(z)
Approximant
w
l
j
Trill
r
The consonants of Indonesian are shown above.[78][84] Non-native consonants that only occur in borrowed words, principally from Arabic and English, are shown in parentheses. Some analyses list 19 "primary consonants" for Indonesian as the 18 symbols that are not in parentheses in the table as well as the glottal stop [ʔ]. The secondary consonants /f/, /v/, /z/, /ʃ/ and /x/ only appear in loanwords. Some speakers pronounce /v/ in loanwords as [v], otherwise it is [f]. Likewise /x/ may be replaced with [h] or [k] by some speakers. /ʃ/ is sometimes replaced with /s/, which was traditionally used as a substitute for /ʃ/ in older borrowings from Sanskrit, and /f/ is rarely replaced though /p/ was substituted for /f/ in older borrowings such as kopi "coffee" from Dutch koffie. /z/ may occasionally be replaced with /s/ or /d͡ʒ/. [z] can also be an allophone of /s/ before voiced consonants.[85][86] According to some analyses, postalveolar affricates /tʃ/ and /dʒ/ are instead palatals [c] and [ɟ] in Indonesian.[87]
The consonants in Indonesian is influenced by other important language in Indonesian history. The influences included schwa in final closed syllable (e.g. Indonesian pəcəl vs Malay pəcal), initial homorganic nasal stop clusters of ⟨mb⟩, ⟨nd⟩, and ⟨nj⟩ (e.g. Indonesian mbolos 'to malinger'), the consonant-semivowel clusters (e.g. Indonesian pria vs Malay pəria 'male'), introduction of consonant clusters ⟨-ry-⟩ and ⟨-ly-⟩ (e.g. Indonesian gərilya vs Malay gərila 'guerrilla'), increase usage of initial ⟨w-⟩ (e.g. warta and bərita 'news') and intervocalic ⟨w-⟩, and increase of initial and post-consonant ⟨y⟩ [j]. These changes are influence of local languages in Indonesia, such as Balinese, Madurese, Sundanese and especially Javanese, and foreign languages such as Arabic and Dutch.[48]
Orthographic note:
The sounds are represented orthographically by their symbols as above, except:
/ɲ/ is written ⟨ny⟩.
/ŋ/ is written ⟨ng⟩.
The glottal stop [ʔ] is written as a final ⟨k⟩, an apostrophe ⟨'⟩ (the use ⟨k⟩ from its being an allophone of /k/ or /ɡ/ in the syllable coda), or it can be unwritten.
/tʃ/ is written ⟨c⟩.
/dʒ/ is written ⟨j⟩.
/ʃ/ is written ⟨sy⟩.
/x/ is written ⟨kh⟩.
/j/ is written ⟨y⟩.
Stress[edit]
Indonesian has light stress that falls on either the final or penultimate syllable, depending on regional variations as well as the presence of the schwa (/ə/) in a word. It is generally the penultimate syllable that is stressed, unless its vowel is a schwa /ə/. If the penult has a schwa, then stress moves to the ante-penultimate syllable if there is one, even if that syllable has a schwa as well; if the word is disyllabic, the stress is final. In disyllabic stress with a closed penultimate syllable, such as tinggal ('stay') and rantai ('chain'), stress falls on the penult.
However, there is some disagreement among linguists over whether stress is phonemic (unpredictable), with some analyses suggesting that there is no underlying stress in Indonesian.[84][88][89]
Rhythm[edit]
The classification of languages based on rhythm can be problematic.[90] Nevertheless, acoustic measurements suggest that Indonesian has more syllable-based rhythm than British English,[91] even though doubts remain about whether the syllable is the appropriate unit for the study of Malay prosody.[88]
Grammar[edit]
Main article: Malay grammar
Word order in Indonesian is generally subject-verb-object (SVO), similar to that of most modern European languages as well as English. However considerable flexibility in word ordering exists, in contrast with languages such as Japanese or Korean, for instance, which always end clauses with verbs. Indonesian, while allowing for relatively flexible word orderings, does not mark for grammatical case, nor does it make use of grammatical gender.
Affixes[edit]
Indonesian words are composed of a root or a root plus derivational affixes. The root is the primary lexical unit of a word and is usually bisyllabic, of the shape CV(C)CV(C). Affixes are "glued" onto roots (which are either nouns or verbs) to alter or expand the primary meaning associated with a given root, effectively generating new words, for example, masak (to cook) may become memasak (cooking), memasakkan (cooks for), dimasak (is cooked), pemasak (a cook), masakan (a meal, cookery), termasak (accidentally cooked). There are four types of affixes: prefixes (awalan), suffixes (akhiran), circumfixes (apitan) and infixes (sisipan). Affixes are categorized into noun, verb, and adjective affixes. Many initial consonants alternate in the presence of prefixes: sapu (to sweep) becomes menyapu (sweeps/sweeping); panggil (to call) becomes memanggil (calls/calling), tapis (to sieve) becomes menapis (sieves).
Other examples of the use of affixes to change the meaning of a word can be seen with the word ajar (to teach):
ajar = to teach
ajari = to teach (imperative, locative)
ajarilah = to teach (jussive, locative)
ajarkan = to teach (imperative, causative/applicative)
ajarkanlah = to teach (jussive, causative/applicative)
ajarlah = to teach (jussive, active)
ajaran = teachings
belajar = to learn (intransitive, active)
diajar = to be taught (intransitive, active)
diajari = to be taught (transitive, locative)
diajarkan = to be taught (transitive, causative/applicative)
dipelajari = to be studied (locative)
dipelajarkan = to be studied (causative/applicative)
mempelajari = to study (locative)
mempelajarkan = to study (causative/applicative)
mengajar = to teach (intransitive, active)
mengajarkan = to teach (transitive, casuative/applicative)
mengajari = to teach (transitive, locative)
pelajar = student
pelajari = to study (imperative, locative)
pelajarilah = to study (jussive, locative)
pelajarkan = to study (imperative, causative/applicative)
pelajarkanlah = to study (jussive, causative/applicative)
pengajar = teacher, someone who teaches
pelajaran = subject, education
pelajari = to study (jussive, locative)
pelajarkan = to study (jussive, causative/applicative)
pengajaran = lesson
pembelajaran = learning
terajar = to be taught (accidentally)
terajari = to be taught (accidentally, locative)
terajarkan = to be taught (accidentally, causative/applicative)
terpelajar = well-educated, literally "been taught"
terpelajari = been taught (locative)
terpelajarkan = been taught (causative/applicative)
berpelajaran = is educated, literally "has education"
Noun affixes[edit]
Noun affixes are affixes that form nouns upon addition to root words. The following are examples of noun affixes:
Type of noun affixes
Affix
Example of root word
Example of derived word
Prefix
pə(r)- ~ pəng-
duduk (sit)
penduduk (population)
kə-
hendak (want)
kehendak (desire)
Infix
⟨əl⟩
tunjuk (point)
telunjuk (index finger, command)
⟨əm⟩
kelut (dishevelled)
kemelut (chaos, crisis)
⟨ər⟩
gigi (teeth)
gerigi (toothed blade)
Suffix
-an
bangun (wake up, raise)
bangunan (building)
Circumfix
kə-...-an
raja (king)
kerajaan (kingdom)
pə(r)-...-anpəng-...-an
kerja (work)
pekerjaan (occupation)
The prefix per- drops its r before r, l and frequently before p, t, k. In some words it is peng-; though formally distinct, these are treated as variants of the same prefix in Indonesian grammar books.
Verb affixes[edit]
Similarly, verb affixes in Indonesian are attached to root words to form verbs. In Indonesian, there are:
Type of verb affixes
Affix
Example of root word
Example of derived word
Prefix
bər-
ajar (teach)
belajar (to study)[92]
məng-
tolong (help)
menolong (to help)
di-
ambil (take)
diambil (be taken)
məmpər-
panjang (length)
memperpanjang (to lengthen)
dipər-
dalam (deep)
diperdalam (be deepened)
tər-
makan (eat)
termakan (to have accidentally eaten)
Suffix
-kan
letak (place, keep)
letakkan (keep, put)
-i
jauh (far)
jauhi (avoid)
Circumfix
bər-...-an
pasang (pair)
berpasangan (in pairs)
bər-...-kan
dasar (base)
berdasarkan (based on)
məng-...-kan
pasti (sure)
memastikan (to make sure)
məng-...-i
teman (company)
menemani (to accompany)
məmpər-...-kan
guna (use)
mempergunakan (to utilise, to exploit)
məmpər-...-i
ajar (teach)
mempelajari (to study)
kə-...-an
hilang (disappear)
kehilangan (to lose)
di-...-i
sakit (pain)
disakiti (to be hurt by)
di-...-kan
benar (right)
dibenarkan (is allowed to)
dipər-...-kan
kenal (know, recognise)
diperkenalkan (is being introduced)
Adjective affixes[edit]
Adjective affixes are attached to root words to form adjectives:
Type of adjective affixes
Affix
Example of root word
Example of derived word
Prefix
tər-
kenal (know)
terkenal (famous)
sə-
lari (run)
selari (parallel)
Infix
⟨əl⟩
serak (disperse)
selerak (messy)
⟨əm⟩
cerlang (radiant bright)
cemerlang (bright, excellent)
⟨ər⟩
sabut (husk)
serabut (dishevelled)
Circumfix
kə-...-an
barat (west)
kebaratan (westernized)
In addition to these affixes, Indonesian also has a lot of borrowed affixes from other languages such as Sanskrit, Arabic and English. For example, maha-, pasca-, eka-, bi-, anti-, pro- etc.
Nouns[edit]
Common derivational affixes for nouns are peng-/per-/juru- (actor, instrument, or someone characterized by the root), -an (collectivity, similarity, object, place, instrument), ke-...-an (abstractions and qualities, collectivities), per-/peng-...-an (abstraction, place, goal or result).
Gender[edit]
Indonesian does not make use of grammatical gender, and there are only selected words that use natural gender. For instance, the same word is used for he/him and she/her (dia or ia) or for his and her (dia, ia or -nya). No real distinction is made between "girlfriend" and "boyfriend", both pacar (although more colloquial terms as cewek girl/girlfriend and cowok boy/boyfriend can also be found). A majority of Indonesian words that refer to people generally have a form that does not distinguish between the sexes. However, unlike English, distinction is made between older or younger.
There are some words that have gender: for instance, putri means "daughter" while putra means "son"; pramugara means "male flight attendant" while pramugari means "female flight attendant". Another example is olahragawan, which means "sportsman", versus olahragawati, meaning "sportswoman". Often, words like these (or certain suffixes such as "-a" and "-i" or "-wan" and "wati") are absorbed from other languages (in these cases, from Sanskrit).
In some regions of Indonesia such as Sumatra and Jakarta, abang (a gender-specific term meaning "older brother") is commonly used as a form of address for older siblings/males, while kakak (a non-gender specific term meaning "older sibling") is often used to mean "older sister". Similarly, more direct influences from other languages, such as Javanese and Chinese, have also seen further use of other gendered words in Indonesian. For example: Mas ("older brother"), Mbak ("older sister"), Koko ("older brother") and Cici ("older sister").
Number[edit]
Indonesian grammar does not regularly mark plurals. In Indonesian, to change a singular into a plural one either repeats the word or adds para before it (the latter for living things only); for example, "students" can be either murid-murid or para murid. Plurals are rarely used in Indonesian, especially in informal parlance. Reduplication is often mentioned as the formal way to express the plural form of nouns in Indonesian; however, in informal daily discourse, speakers of Indonesian usually use other methods to indicate the concept of something being "more than one". Reduplication may also indicate the conditions of variety and diversity as well, and not simply plurality.
Reduplication is commonly used to emphasise plurality; however, reduplication has many other functions. For example, orang-orang means "(all the) people", but orang-orangan means "scarecrow". Similarly, while hati means "heart" or "liver", hati-hati is a verb meaning "to be careful". Also, not all reduplicated words are inherently plural, such as orang-orangan "scarecrow/scarecrows", biri-biri "a/some sheep" and kupu-kupu "butterfly/butterflies". Some reduplication is rhyming rather than exact, as in sayur-mayur "(all sorts of) vegetables".
Distributive affixes derive mass nouns that are effectively plural: pohon "tree", pepohonan "flora, trees"; rumah "house", perumahan "housing, houses"; gunung "mountain", pegunungan "mountain range, mountains".
Quantity words come before the noun: seribu orang "a thousand people", beberapa pegunungan "a series of mountain ranges", beberapa kupu-kupu "some butterflies".
Plural in Indonesian serves just to explicitly mention the number of objects in sentence. For example, Ani membeli satu kilo mangga (Ani buys one kilogram of mangoes). In this case, "mangoes", which is plural, is not said as mangga-mangga because the plurality is implicit: the amount a kilogram means more than one mango. So, as it is logically, one does not change the singular into the plural form, because it is not necessary and considered a pleonasm (in Indonesian often called pemborosan kata).
Pronouns[edit]
Personal pronouns are not a separate part of speech, but a subset of nouns. They are frequently omitted, and there are numerous ways to say "you". Commonly the person's name, title, title with name, or occupation is used ("does Johnny want to go?", "would Madam like to go?"); kin terms, including fictive kinship, are extremely common. However, there are also dedicated personal pronouns, as well as the demonstrative pronouns ini "this, the" and itu "that, the".
Personal pronouns[edit]
From the perspective of a European language, Indonesian boasts a wide range of different pronouns, especially to refer to the addressee (the so-called second person pronouns). These are used to differentiate several parameters of the person they are referred to, such as the social rank and the relationship between the addressee and the speaker. Indonesian also exhibits pronoun avoidance, often preferring kinship terms and titles over pronouns, particularly for respectful forms of address.
The table below provides an overview of the most commonly and widely used pronouns in the Indonesian language:
Common pronouns
Person
Respect
Singular
Plural
1st person exclusive
Informal, Familiar
aku
I
kami
we(s/he,they, not you)
Standard, Polite
saya
1st person inclusive
All
kita
we(s/he,they, and you)
2nd person
Familiar
kamu, engkau, kau
you
kalian
you all
Polite
Anda
Anda sekalian
3rd person
Familiar
dia, ia
s/he, it
mereka
they
Polite
beliau
s/he
First person pronouns
Notable among the personal-pronoun system is a distinction between two forms of "we": kita (you and me, you and us) and kami (us, but not you). The distinction is not always followed in colloquial Indonesian.
Saya and aku are the two major forms of "I". Saya is the more formal form, whereas aku is used with family, friends, and between lovers. Sahaya is an old or literary form of saya. Sa(ha)ya may also be used for "we", but in such cases it is usually used with sekalian or semua "all"; this form is ambiguous as to whether it corresponds with inclusive kami or exclusive kita. Less common are hamba "slave", hamba tuan, hamba datuk (all extremely humble), beta (a royal addressing oneselves), patik (a commoner addressing a royal), kami (royal or editorial "we"), kita, təman, and kawan.
Second person pronouns
There are three common forms of "you", Anda (polite), kamu (familiar), and kalian "all" (commonly used as a plural form of you, slightly informal). Anda is used with strangers, recent acquaintances, in advertisements, in business, and when you wish to show distance, while kamu is used in situations where the speaker would use aku for "I". Anda sekalian is polite plural. Particularly in conversation, respectful titles like Bapak/Pak "father" (used for any older male), Ibu/Bu "mother" (any older woman), and tuan "sir" are often used instead of pronouns.[93][better source needed]
Engkau (əngkau), commonly shortened to kau.
Third person pronouns
The common word for "s/he" and "they" is ia, which has the object and emphatic/focused form dia. Bəliau "his/her Honour" is respectful. As with "you", names and kin terms are extremely common. Mereka "someone", mereka itu, or orang itu "those people" are used for "they".
Regional varieties
There are a large number of other words for "I" and "you", many regional, dialectical, or borrowed from local languages. Saudara "you" (male) and saudari (female) (plural saudara-saudara or saudari-saudari) show utmost respect. Daku "I" and dikau "you" are poetic or romantic. Indonesian gua "I" (from Hokkien Chinese: 我; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: góa) and lu "you" (Chinese: 汝; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: lú) are slang and extremely informal.
The pronouns aku, kamu, engkau, ia, kami, and kita are indigenous to Indonesian.
Possessive pronouns[edit]
Aku, kamu, engkau, and ia have short possessive enclitic forms. All others retain their full forms like other nouns, as does emphatic dia: meja saya, meja kita, meja anda, meja dia "my table, our table, your table, his/her table".
Possessed forms of meja "table"
Pronoun
Enclitic
Possessed form
aku
-ku
mejaku (my table)
kamu
-mu
mejamu (your table)
ia
-nya
mejanya (his, her, their table)
There are also proclitic forms of aku, ku- and kau-. These are used when there is no emphasis on the pronoun:
Ku-dengar raja itu menderita penyakit kulit. Aku mengetahui ilmu kedokteran. Aku-lah yang akan mengobati dia.
"It has come to my attention that the King has a skin disease. I am skilled in medicine. I will cure him."
Here ku-verb is used for a general report, aku verb is used for a factual statement, and emphatic aku-lah meng-verb (≈ "I am the one who...") for focus on the pronoun.[94]
Demonstrative pronouns[edit]
There are two demonstrative pronouns in Indonesian. Ini "this, these" is used for a noun which is generally near to the speaker. Itu "that, those" is used for a noun which is generally far from the speaker. Either may sometimes be equivalent to English "the". There is no difference between singular and plural. However, plural can be indicated through duplication of a noun followed by a ini or itu. The word yang "which" is often placed before demonstrative pronouns to give emphasis and a sense of certainty, particularly when making references or enquiries about something/ someone, like English "this one" or "that one".
Pronoun
Indonesian
English
ini
buku ini
This book, these books, the book(s)
buku-buku ini
These books, (all) the books
itu
kucing itu
That cat, those cats, the cat(s)
kucing-kucing itu
Those cats, the (various) cats
Pronoun + yang
Example sentence
English meaning
Yang ini
Q: Anda mau membeli buku yang mana?
A: Saya mau yang ini.
Q: Which book do you wish to purchase?
A: I would like this one.
Yang itu
Q: Kucing mana yang memakan tikusmu?
A: Yang itu!
Q: Which cat ate your mouse?
A: That one!
Verbs[edit]
Verbs are not inflected for person or number, and they are not marked for tense; tense is instead denoted by time adverbs (such as "yesterday") or by other tense indicators, such as sudah "already" and belum "not yet". On the other hand, there is a complex system of verb affixes to render nuances of meaning and to denote voice or intentional and accidental moods. Some of these affixes are ignored in colloquial speech.
Examples of these are the prefixes di- (patient focus, traditionally called "passive voice", with OVA word order in the third person, and OAV in the first or second persons), meng- (agent focus, traditionally called "active voice", with AVO word order), memper- and diper- (causative, agent and patient focus), ber- (stative or habitual; intransitive VS order), and ter- (agentless actions, such as those which are involuntary, sudden, stative or accidental, for VA = VO order); the suffixes -kan (causative or benefactive) and -i (locative, repetitive, or exhaustive); and the circumfixes ber-...-an (plural subject, diffuse action) and ke-...-an (unintentional or potential action or state).
duduk to sit down
mendudukkan to sit someone down, give someone a seat, to appoint
menduduki to sit on, to occupy
didudukkan to be given a seat, to be appointed
diduduki to be sat on, to be occupied
terduduk to sink down, to come to sit
kedudukan to be situated
Forms in ter- and ke-...-an are often equivalent to adjectives in English.
Negation[edit]
Four words are used for negation in Indonesian, namely tidak, bukan, jangan, and belum.
Tidak (not), often shortened to tak, is used for the negation of verbs and "adjectives".
Bukan (be-not) is used in the negation of a noun.
For example:
Indonesian
Gloss
English
Saya tidak tahu (Saya tak tahu)
I not know
I do not know
Ibu saya tidak senang (Ibu saya tak senang)
mother I not be-happy
My mother is not happy
Itu bukan anjing saya
that be-not dog I
That is not my dog
Prohibition[edit]
For negating imperatives or advising against certain actions in Indonesian, the word jangan (do not) is used before the verb. For example,
Jangan tinggalkan saya di sini!
Don't leave me here!
Jangan lakukan itu!
Don't do that!
Jangan! Itu tidak bagus untukmu.
Don't! That's not good for you.
Adjectives[edit]
There are grammatical adjectives in Indonesian. Stative verbs are often used for this purpose as well. Adjectives are always placed after the noun that they modify. Hence, "rumah saya" means "my house", while "saya rumah" means "I am a house". 
Indonesian
Gloss
English
Hutan hijau
forest green
(The) green forest
Hutan itu hijau
forest that green
That/the forest is green
Kereta yang merah
carriage which be-red
(The) carriage which is red = the red carriage
Kereta merah
carriage red
Red carriage
Dia orang yang terkenal sekali
he/she person which be-famous very
He/she is a very famous person
Orang terkenal
person famous
Famous person
Orang ini terkenal sekali
person this be-famous very
This person is very famous
To say that something "is" an adjective, the determiners "itu" and "ini" ("that" and "this") are often used. For example, in the sentence "anjing itu galak", the use of "itu" gives a meaning of "the/that dog is ferocious", while "anjing ini galak", gives a meaning of "this dog is ferocious". However, if "itu" or "ini" were not to be used, then "anjing galak" would meaning only "ferocious dog", a plain adjective without any stative implications. The all-purpose determiner, "yang", is also often used before adjectives, hence "anjing yang galak" also means "ferocious dog" or more literally "dog which is ferocious"; "yang" will often be used for clarity. Hence, in a sentence such as "saya didekati oleh anjing galak" which means "I was approached by a ferocious dog", the use of the adjective "galak" is not stative at all.
Often the "ber-" intransitive verb prefix, or the "ter-" stative prefix is used to express the meaning of "to be...". For example, "beda" means "different", hence "berbeda" means "to be different"; "awan" means "cloud", hence "berawan" means "cloudy". Using the "ter-" prefix, implies a state of being. For example, "buka" means "open", hence "terbuka" means "is opened"; "tutup" means "closed/shut", hence "tertutup" means "is closed/shut".
Word order[edit]
Adjectives, demonstrative determiners, and possessive determiners follow the noun they modify.
Indonesian does not have a grammatical subject in the sense that English does. In intransitive clauses, the noun comes before the verb. When there is both an agent and an object, these are separated by the verb (OVA or AVO), with the difference encoded in the voice of the verb. OVA, commonly but inaccurately called "passive", is the basic and most common word order.
Either the agent or object or both may be omitted. This is commonly done to accomplish one of two things:
1) Adding a sense of politeness and respect to a statement or question
For example, a polite shop assistant in a store may avoid the use of pronouns altogether and ask:
Ellipses of pronoun (agent & object)
Literal English
Idiomatic English
Bisa dibantu?
Can + to be helped?
Can (I) help (you)?
2) Agent or object is unknown, not important, or understood from context
For example, a friend may enquire as to when you bought your property, to which you may respond:
Ellipses of pronoun (understood agent)
Literal English
Idiomatic English
Rumah ini dibeli lima tahun yang lalu
House this + be purchased five-year(s) ago
The house 'was purchased' five years ago
Ultimately, the choice of voice and therefore word order is a choice between actor and patient and depends quite heavily on the language style and context.
Emphasis[edit]
Word order is frequently modified for focus or emphasis, with the focused word usually placed at the beginning of the clause and followed by a slight pause (a break in intonation):
Saya pergi ke pasar kemarin "I went to the market yesterday" – neutral, or with focus on the subject.
Kemarin, saya pergi ke pasar "Yesterday I went to the market" – emphasis on yesterday.
Ke pasar, saya pergi kemarin "To the market I went yesterday" – emphasis on where I went yesterday.
Pergi ke pasar, saya, kemarin "To the market went I yesterday" – emphasis on the process of going to the market.
The last two are more likely to be encountered in speech than in writing.
Measure words[edit]
Another distinguishing feature of Indonesian is its use of measure words, also called classifiers (kata penggolong). In this way, it is similar to many other languages of Asia, including Chinese, Japanese, Vietnamese, Thai, Burmese, and Bengali.
Measure words are also found in English such as two head of cattle or a loaf of bread, where *two cattle and a bread would be ungrammatical. The word satu reduces to se- /sə/, as it does in other compounds:
Measure word
Used for measuring
Literal translation
Example
buah
things (in general), large things, abstract nounshouses, cars, ships, mountains; books, rivers, chairs, some fruits, thoughts, etc.
'fruit'
dua buah meja (two tables), lima buah rumah (five houses)
ekor
animals
'tail'
seekor ayam (a chicken), tiga ekor kambing (three goats)
orang
human beings
'person'
seorang laki-laki (a man), enam orang petani (six farmers), seratus orang murid (a hundred students)
biji
smaller rounded objectsmost fruits, cups, nuts
'grain'
sebiji/ sebutir telur (an egg), sebutir/ butiran-butiran beras (rice or rices)
batang
long stiff thingstrees, walking sticks, pencils
'trunk, rod'
sebatang tongkat (a stick)
həlai
things in thin layers or sheetspaper, cloth, feathers, hair
'leaf'
sepuluh helai pakaian (ten cloths)
kəping keping
flat fragments, slabs of stone, pieces of wood, pieces of bread, land, coins, paper
'chip'
sekeping uang logam (a coin)
pucuk
letters, firearms, needles
'sprout'
sepucuk senjata (a weapon)
bilah
things which cut lengthwise and thicker
'blade'
sebilah kayu (a piece of wood)
bidanɡ
things shaped square or which can be measured with number
'field'
sebidang tanah/lahan (an area)
potong
things that are cutbread
'cut'
sepotong roti (slices of bread)
utas
nets, cords, ribbons
'thread'
seutas tali (a rope)
carik
things easily torn, like paper
'shred'
secarik kertas (a piece of paper)
Example:
Measure words are not necessary just to say "a": burung "a bird, birds". Using se- plus a measure word is closer to English "one" or "a certain":
Ada seekor burung yang bisa berbicara
"There was a (certain) bird that could talk"
Writing system[edit]
Main articles: Indonesian alphabet and Indonesian Spelling System
Indonesian is written with the Latin script. It was originally based on the Dutch spelling and still bears some similarities to it. Consonants are represented in a way similar to Italian, although ⟨c⟩ is always /tʃ/ (like English ⟨ch⟩), ⟨g⟩ is always /ɡ/ ("hard") and ⟨j⟩ represents /dʒ/ as it does in English. In addition, ⟨ny⟩ represents the palatal nasal /ɲ/, ⟨ng⟩ is used for the velar nasal /ŋ/ (which can occur word-initially), ⟨sy⟩ for /ʃ/ (English ⟨sh⟩) and ⟨kh⟩ for the voiceless velar fricative /x/. Both /e/ and /ə/ are represented with ⟨e⟩.
Spelling changes in the language that have occurred since Indonesian independence include:
Phoneme
Obsoletespelling
Modernspelling
/u/
oe
u
/tʃ/
tj
c
/dʒ/
dj
j
/j/
j
y
/ɲ/
nj
ny
/ʃ/
sj
sy
/x/
ch
kh
Introduced in 1901, the van Ophuijsen system (named from the advisor of the system, Charles Adriaan van Ophuijsen) was the first standardization of romanized spelling. It was most influenced by the then current Dutch spelling system. In 1947, the spelling was changed into Republican Spelling or Soewandi Spelling (named by at the time Minister of Education, Soewandi). This spelling changed formerly spelled oe into u (however, the spelling influenced other aspects in orthography, for example writing reduplicated words). All of the other changes were a part of the Perfected Spelling System, an officially mandated spelling reform in 1972. Some of the old spellings (which were derived from Dutch orthography) do survive in proper names; for example, the name of a former president of Indonesia is still sometimes written Soeharto, and the central Java city of Yogyakarta is sometimes written Jogjakarta. In time, the spelling system is further updated and the latest update of Indonesian spelling system issued on 16 August 2022 by Head of Language Development and Fostering Agency decree No 0424/I/BS.00.01/2022.[82]
Letter names and pronunciations[edit]
The Indonesian alphabet is exactly the same as in ISO basic Latin alphabet.
Majuscule Forms
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Minuscule Forms
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
m
n
o
p
q
r
s
t
u
v
w
x
y
z
Indonesian follows the letter names of the Dutch alphabet. Indonesian alphabet has a phonemic orthography; words are spelled the way they are pronounced, with few exceptions. The letters Q, V and X are rarely encountered, being chiefly used for writing loanwords.
Letter
Name (in IPA)
Sound (in IPA)
English equivalent
Aa
a (/a/)
/a/
a as in father
Bb
be (/be/)
/b/
b as in bed
Cc
ce (/t͡ʃe/)
/t͡ʃ/
ch as in check
Dd
de (/de/)
/d/
d as in day
Ee
e (/e/)
/e/
e as in red
Ff
ef (/ef/)
/f/
f as in effort
Gg
ge (/ge/)
/ɡ/
g as in gain
Hh
ha (/ha/)
/h/
h as in harm
Ii
i (/i/)
/i/
ee as in see
Jj
je (/d͡ʒe/)
/d͡ʒ/
j as in jam
Kk
ka (/ka/)
/k/
k as in karma
Ll
el (/el/)
/l/
l as in else
Mm
em (/em/)
/m/
m as in empty
Nn
en (/en/)
/n/
n as in energy
Oo
o (/o/)
 /o/
o as in owe
Pp
pe (/pe/)
 /p/
p as in pet
Qq
qi or qiu (/ki/ or /kiu̯/)
 /k/
q as in queue
Rr
er (/er/)
 /r/
Spanish rr as in puerro
Ss
es (/es/)
 /s/
s as in establish
Tt
te (/te/)
 /t/
t as in text
Uu
u (/u/)
 /u/
oo as in pool
Vv
ve (/ve/ or /fe/)
 /v/ or /f/
v as in vest
Ww
 we (/we/)
 /w/
w as in wet
Xx
 ex (/eks/)
/ks/ or /s/
x as in ex
Yy
 ye (/je/)
 /j/
y as in yes
Zz
zet (/zet/)
 /z/
z as in zebra
In addition, there are digraphs that are not considered separate letters of the alphabet:[95]
Digraph
Sound
English equivalent
ai
/aɪ/
uy as in buy
au
/aʊ/
ou as in ouch
oi
/oɪ/
oy as in boy
ei
/eɪ/
ey as in survey
gh
/ɣ/ or /x/
similar to Dutch and German ch, but voiced
kh
/x/
ch as in loch
ng
/ŋ/
ng as in sing
ny
/ɲ/
Spanish ñ; similar to ny as in canyon with a nasal sound
sy
/ʃ/
sh as in shoe
Vocabulary[edit]
See also: List of loanwords in Indonesian
Pie chart showing percentage of other languages contribute on loan words of Indonesian language
  Dutch (42.5%)  English (20.9%)  Arabic (19%)  Sanskrit and Hindi (9%)  Chinese (3.6%)  Portuguese (2%)  Tamil (2%)  Persian (1%)
As a modern variety of Malay, Indonesian has been influenced by other languages, including Dutch, English, Greek (where the name of the country, Indonesia, comes from), Arabic, Chinese, Portuguese, Sanskrit, Tamil, Hindi, and Persian. It is estimated that there are some 750 Sanskrit loanwords in modern Indonesian, 1,000 Arabic loans, some of Persian and Hebrew origin, some 125 words of Portuguese, some of Spanish and Italian origin, and 10,000 loanwords from Dutch.[96][full citation needed] The vast majority of Indonesian words, however, come from the root lexical stock of Austronesian (including Old Malay).[34]
The study of Indonesian etymology and loan words reveals both its historical and social contexts. Examples are the early Sanskrit borrowings from the 7th century during the trading era, the borrowings from Arabic and Persian during the time of the establishment of Islam in particular, and those from Dutch during the colonial period. Linguistic history and cultural history are clearly linked.[97]
List of loan words of Indonesian language published by the Badan Pengembangan Bahasa dan Perbukuan (The Language Center) under the Ministry of Education and Culture:[98]
Language origin
Number of words
Dutch
3280
English
1610
Arabic
1495
Sanskrit
677
Chinese
290
Portuguese
131
Tamil
131
Persian
63
Hindi
7
Note: This list only lists foreign languages, and thus omitting numerous local languages of Indonesia that have also been major lexical donors, such as Javanese, Sundanese, Betawi, etc. For a more complete list of these, see List of loanwords in Indonesian.
Loan words of Sanskrit origin[edit]
See also: List of Sanskrit loanwords in Indonesian
Indonesian National Police, Indonesian Air Force and Indonesian Army mottos are Rastra Sewakottama, Swa Bhuwana Paksa, Kartika Eka Paksi, all in the Sanskrit language.
The Sanskrit influence came from contacts with India since ancient times. The words were either borrowed directly from India or with the intermediary of the Old Javanese language. Although Hinduism and Buddhism are no longer the major religions of Indonesia, Sanskrit, which was the language vehicle for these religions, is still held in high esteem and is comparable with the status of Latin in English and other Western European languages. Sanskrit is also the main source for neologisms, which are usually formed from Sanskrit roots. The loanwords from Sanskrit cover many aspects of religion, art and everyday life.
From Sanskrit came such words as स्वर्ग surga (heaven), भाषा bahasa (language), काच kaca (glass, mirror), राज- raja (king), मनुष्य manusia (mankind), चिन्ता cinta (love), भूमि bumi (earth), भुवन buana (world), आगम agama (religion), स्त्री Istri (wife/woman), जय Jaya (victory/victorious), पुर Pura (city/temple/place) राक्षस Raksasa (giant/monster), धर्म Dharma (rule/regulations), मन्त्र Mantra (words/poet/spiritual prayers), क्षत्रिय Satria (warrior/brave/soldier), विजय Wijaya (greatly victorious/great victory), etc. Sanskrit words and sentences are also used in names, titles, and mottos of the Indonesian National Police and Indonesian Armed Forces such as: Bhayangkara, Laksamana, Jatayu, Garuda, Dharmakerta Marga Reksyaka, Jalesveva Jayamahe, Kartika Eka Paksi, Swa Bhuwana Paksa, Rastra Sewakottama, Yudha Siaga, etc.
Because Sanskrit has long been known in the Indonesian archipelago, Sanskrit loanwords, unlike those from other languages, have entered the basic vocabulary of Indonesian to such an extent that, for many, they are no longer perceived to be foreign. Therefore, one could write a short story using mostly Sanskrit-derived words. The short story below consists of approximately 80 words in Indonesian that are all derived from Sanskrit, as well as a few native function words and affixes.
Karena semua dibiayai dana negara jutaan rupiah, sang mahaguru sastra bahasa Kawi dan mahasiswa-mahasiswinya, duta-duta negeri mitra, Menteri Kebudayaan dan Pariwisata suami-istri, beserta karyawan-karyawati lembaga nirlaba segera berdharmawisata ke pedesaan di utara kota kabupaten Probolinggo antara candi-candi purba, berwahana keledai di kala senja dan bersama kepala desa menyaksikan para tani yang berjiwa bersahaja serta berbudi nirmala secara berbahagia berupacara, seraya merdu menyuarakan gita-gita mantra, yang merupakan sarana pujian mereka memuja nama suci Pertiwi, Dewi Bumi yang bersedia menganugerahi mereka karunia dan restu, meraksa dari bahaya, mala petaka dan bencana.
Loan words of Chinese origin[edit]
See also: List of Chinese loanwords in Indonesian
The relationship with China has been going since the 7th century when Chinese merchants traded in some areas of the archipelago such as Riau, West Borneo, East Kalimantan, and North Maluku. As the kingdom of Srivijaya appeared and flourished, China opened diplomatic relations with the kingdom in order to secure trade and seafaring. In 922, Chinese travelers visited Kahuripan in East Java. Since the 11th century, hundreds of thousands of Chinese migrants left Mainland China and settled in many parts of Nusantara (now called Indonesia).
The Chinese loanwords are usually concerned with cuisine, trade or often just things exclusively Chinese. Words of Chinese origin (presented here with accompanying Hokkien/ Mandarin pronunciation derivatives as well as traditional and simplified characters) include loteng, (樓/層 = lóu/céng – [upper] floor/ level), mie (麵 > 面 Hokkien mī – noodles), lumpia (潤餅 (Hokkien = lūn-piáⁿ) – springroll), cawan (茶碗 cháwǎn – teacup), teko (茶壺 > 茶壶 = cháhú [Mandarin], teh-ko [Hokkien] = teapot), 苦力 kuli (= 苦 khu (hard) and 力 li (energy) – coolie) and even the widely used slang terms gua and lu (from the Hokkien 'goa' 我 and 'lu/li' 汝 – meaning 'I/ me' and 'you').
Loan words of Arabic origin[edit]
Many Arabic words were brought and spread by merchants from Arab Peninsula like Arabian, Persian, and from the western part of India, Gujarat where many Muslims lived.[99] As a result, many Indonesian words come from the Arabic language. Especially since the late 12th century, Old Malay was heavily influenced by the language and produced many great literary works such as Syair, Babad, Hikayat, and Suluk. This century is known as The Golden Age of Indonesian Literature.[99]
Many loanwords from Arabic are mainly concerned with religion, in particular with Islam, and by extension, with greetings such as the word, "selamat" (from Arabic: سلامة salāma = health, soundness)[100] means "safe" or "lucky". Words of Arabic origin include dunia (from Arabic: دنيا dunyā = the present world), names of days (except Minggu), such as Sabtu (from Arabic: سبت sabt-u = Saturday), iklan (آعلان iʻlan = advertisement), kabar (خبر khabar = news), Kursi (كرسي kursī = a chair), ijazah (إجازة ijāza = 'permission', certificate of authority, e.g. a school diploma certificate), kitab (كتاب kitāb = book), tertib (ترتيب tartīb = order/arrangement) and kamus (قاموس qāmūs = dictionary). Allah (Arabic: الله), as is mostly the case for Arabic speakers, this is the word for God even in Christian Bible translations. Many early Bible translators, when they came across some unusual Hebrew words or proper names, used the Arabic cognates. In the newer translations this practice is discontinued. They now turn to Greek names or use the original Hebrew Word. For example, the name Jesus was initially translated as 'Isa (Arabic: عيسى), but is now spelt as Yesus. Several ecclesiastical terms derived from Arabic still exist in Indonesian language. Indonesian word for bishop is uskup (from Arabic: أسقف usquf = bishop). This in turn makes the Indonesian term for archbishop uskup agung (lit. 'great bishop'), which is combining the Arabic word with an Old Javanese word. The term imam (from Arabic: إمام imām = leader, prayer leader) is used to translate a Catholic priest, beside its more common association with an Islamic prayer leader. Some Protestant denominations refer to their congregation jemaat (from Arabic: جماعة jamāʻa = group, a community). Even the name of the Bible in Indonesian translation is Alkitab (from Arabic: الكتاب al-kitāb = the book), which literally means "the Book".
Loan words of Portuguese origin[edit]
Indonesian word "Gereja" (Church) is derived from Portuguese "Igreja". The sign reads: "Gereja & Candi Hati Kudus Tuhan Yesus Ganjuran Keuskupan Agung Semarang" (The Church and Temple of the Sacred Heart of Jesus Ganjuran Archdiocese of Semarang).
Alongside Malay, Portuguese was the lingua franca for trade throughout the archipelago from the sixteenth century through to the early nineteenth century. The Portuguese were among the first westerners to sail eastwards to the "Spice Islands". Loanwords from Portuguese were mainly connected with articles that the early European traders and explorers brought to Southeast Asia. Indonesian words derived from Portuguese include meja (from mesa = table), bangku (from banco = bench), lemari/almari (from armário = closet), boneka (from boneca = doll), jendela (from janela = window), gereja (from igreja = church), misa (from missa = mass), Natal (from Natal = Christmas), Paskah (from Páscoa = Easter), pesta (from festa = party), dansa (from dança = dance), pesiar (from passear = cruise), bendera (from bandeira = flag), sepatu (from sapato = shoes), garpu (from garfo = fork), kemeja (from camisa = shirt), kereta (from carreta = chariot), pompa (from bomba hidráulica = pump), pigura (from figura = picture), roda (from roda = wheel), nona (from dona = young woman), sekolah (from escola = school), lentera (from lanterna = lantern), paderi (from padre = priest), Santo, Santa (from Santo, Santa = Saint), puisi (from poesia = poetry), keju (from queijo = cheese), mentega (from manteiga = butter), serdadu (from soldado = soldier), meski (from mas que = although), kamar (from câmara = room), laguna (from laguna = lagoon), lelang (from leilão = auction), persero (from parceiro = company), markisa (from maracujá = passion fruit), limau (from limão = lemon), kartu (from cartão = card), Inggris (from inglês = English), Sabtu (from sábado = Saturday), Minggu (from domingo = Sunday), etc.[101]
Loan words of Dutch origin[edit]
See also: List of Dutch loanwords in Indonesian
The Indonesian word of bioskop is derived from Dutch bioscoop (movie theater).
The former colonial power, the Netherlands, left a sizeable amount of vocabulary that can be seen in words such as polisi (from politie = police), kualitas (from kwaliteit = quality), aktual (from actueel = current), rokok (from roken = smoking cigarettes), korupsi (from corruptie = corruption), kantor (from kantoor = office), resleting (from ritssluiting = zipper), pelopor (from voorloper = frontrunner), persneling (from versnelling = transmission gear), setrum (from stroom = electricity current), maskapai (from maatschappij = company), apotek (from apotheek = pharmacy), handuk (from handdoek = towel), setrika (from strijkijzer = clothes iron), bioskop (from bioscoop = movie theater), spanduk (from spandoeken = banner), korsleting (from kortsluiting = short circuit), om (from oom = uncle), tante (from tante = aunt), traktir (from trakteer = treat) and gratis (from gratis = free). These Dutch loanwords, and many other non-Italo-Iberian, European language loanwords that came via Dutch, cover all aspects of life. Some Dutch loanwords, having clusters of several consonants, pose difficulties to speakers of Indonesian. This problem is usually solved by insertion of the schwa. For example, Dutch schroef [ˈsxruf] > sekrup [səˈkrup] (screw (n.)). One scholar argues that 20% of Indonesian words are inspired by the Dutch language.[102]
Before the standardization of the language, many Indonesian words follow standard Dutch alphabet and pronunciation such as "oe" for vowel "u" or "dj" for consonant "j" [dʒ]. As a result, Malay words are written with that orthography such as: passer for the word Pasar or djalan for the word jalan, older Indonesian generation tend to have their name written in such order as well.
Loan words of English origin[edit]
Many English words were incorporated into Indonesian through globalization. Many Indonesians, however, mistake words already adopted from Dutch as words borrowed from English. Indonesian adopts English words with standardization.[103] For example: standardisasi from standardization, aktivitas from activity, aksesori from accessory, paleografi from palaeography, pasien from patient, eksekutif from executive, kupon from coupon, and so on.[104][105] However, there are several words that directly borrowed without standardization that have same meanings in English such as: bus, data, domain, detail, internet, film, golf, lift, monitor, radio, radar, unit, safari, sonar, video, and riil as real.[105]
Other loan words[edit]
Modern Indonesian draws many of its words from foreign sources, there are many synonyms. For example, Indonesian has three words for "book", i.e. pustaka (from Sanskrit), kitab (from Arabic) and buku (from Dutch boek); however, each has a slightly different meaning. A pustaka is often connected with ancient wisdom or sometimes with esoteric knowledge. A derived form, perpustakaan means a library. A kitab is usually a religious scripture or a book containing moral guidance. The Indonesian words for the Bible and Gospel are Alkitab and Injil, both directly derived from Arabic. The book containing the penal code is also called the kitab. Buku is the most common word for books.
There are direct borrowings from various other languages of the world, such as karaoke (from カラオケ) from Japanese, and ebi (from えび) which means dried shrimp. Many words that originally are adopted through the Dutch language today however often are mistaken as English due to the similarity in the Germanic nature of both languages. In some cases the words are replaced by English language through globalization: although the word arbei (Dutch: aardbei) still literally means strawberry in Indonesian, today the usage of the word stroberi is more common. Greek words such as demokrasi (from δημοκρατία dēmokratía), filosofi, filsafat (both from φιλοσοφία philosophia), mitos (from μῦθος mythos) came through Dutch, Arabic and Portuguese respectively.
It is notable that some of the loanwords that exist in both Indonesian and Malaysian languages are different in spelling and pronunciation mainly due to how they derived their origins: Malaysian utilises words that reflect the English usage (as used by its former colonial power, the British), while Indonesian uses a Latinate form reflected in the Dutch usage (e.g. aktiviti (Malaysian) vs. aktivitas (Indonesian), universiti (Malaysian) vs. universitas (Indonesian)).
Acronyms and portmanteau[edit]
Since the time of the independence of Indonesia, Indonesian has seen a surge of neologisms which are formed as acronyms (less commonly also initialisms) or blend words.
Common acronyms are ABRI (pronounced [ˈabri], from Angkatan Bersenjata Republik Indonesia 'Indonesian National Armed Forces'), SIM (pronounced [sim], from surat izin mengemudi 'driving licence'), SARA (pronounced [ˈsara], from suku, agama, ras, antargolongan 'ethnic group, religion, race, inter-group [matters]', used when referring to the background of intercommunal conflicts), HAM (pronounced [ham], from hak asasi manusia 'human rights').
Blend words/portmanteau are very common in Indonesian, and have become a productive tool of word formation in both formal and colloquial Indonesian. Examples from official usage include departments and officeholders (e.g. Menlu < Mentri Luar Negeri 'Foreign Minister', Kapolda < Kepala kepolisian daerah 'Head of Regional Police') or names of provinces and districts (Sulsel < Sulawesi Selatan 'South Sulawesi', Jabar < Jawa Barat 'West Java'. Other commonly used portmanteau include puskesmas < pusat kesehatan masyarakat 'community health center', sembako < sembilan bahan pokok 'basic commodities' (lit. 'nine basic commodities').[106]
Literature[edit]
Main article: Indonesian literature
Indonesia hosts a variety of traditional verbal arts such as poetry, historical narratives, romances, and drama; which are expressed in local languages, but modern genres are expressed mainly through Indonesian.[14] Some of classic Indonesian stories include Sitti Nurbaya by Marah Rusli, Azab dan Sengsara by Merari Siregar, and Sengsara Membawa Nikmat by Tulis Sutan Sati.[107][108] Modern literature like novels, short stories, stage plays, and free-form poetry has developed since the late years of the 19th century and has produced such internationally recognized figures as novelist Pramoedya Ananta Toer, dramatist W.S. Rendra, poet Chairil Anwar, and cinematographer Garin Nugroho.[109] Indonesia's classic novels itself, have their own charm, offering insight into local culture and traditions and the historical background before and immediately after the country gained independence. One notable example is Shackles which was written by Armijn Pane in 1940. Originally titled Belenggu and translated into many languages, including English and German.[110]
As speakers of other languages[edit]
BIPA (Bahasa Indonesia untuk Penutur Asing) book, which helps foreigners to learn the Indonesian language effectively.
Over the past few years, interest in learning Indonesian has grown among non-Indonesians.[111] Various universities have started to offer courses that emphasise the teaching of the language to non-Indonesians. In addition to national universities, private institutions have also started to offer courses, like the Indonesia Australia Language Foundation and the Lembaga Indonesia Amerika. As early as 1988, teachers of the language have expressed the importance of a standardized Bahasa Indonesia bagi Penutur Asing (also called BIPA, literally Indonesian Language for Foreign Speaker) materials (mostly books), and this need became more evident during the 4th International Congress on the Teaching of Indonesian to Speakers of Other Languages held in 2001.[112]
Since 2013, the Indonesian embassy in the Philippines has given basic Indonesian language courses to 16 batches of Filipino students, as well as training to members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines. Due to increasing demand among students, the embassy will open an intermediate Indonesian language course later in the year.[needs update] In an interview, Department of Education Secretary Armin Luistro[113] said that the country's government should promote Indonesian or Malay, which are related to Filipino. Thus, the possibility of offering it as an optional subject in public schools is being studied.
The Indonesian embassy in Washington, D.C., United States, also began offering free Indonesian language courses at the beginner and intermediate level.[114]
Words[edit]
Numbers[edit]
Old one thousand Indonesian Rupiah banknote, featuring Indonesian national hero Thomas Matulessy
Cardinal[edit]
Number
English
Indonesian
IPA
0
zero
nol
[nol]
1
one
satu
[sa.tu]
2
two
dua
[du.(w)a]
3
three
tiga
[ti.ga]
4
four
empat
[əm.pat]
5
five
lima
[li.ma]
6
six
enam
[ə.nam]
7
seven
tujuh
[tu.dʒuh]
8
eight
delapan
[də.la.pan]
9
nine
sembilan
[səm.bi.lan]
10
ten
sepuluh
[sə.pu.luh]
11
eleven
sebelas
[sə.bə.las]
12
twelve
dua belas
[du.(w)a bə.las]
13
thirteen
tiga belas
[ti.ga bə.las]
14
fourteen
empat belas
[əm.pat bə.las]
15
fifteen
lima belas
[li.ma bə.las]
20
twenty
dua puluh
[du.(w)a pu.luh]
21
twenty one
dua puluh satu
[du.(w)a pu.luh sa.tu]
30
thirty
tiga puluh
[ti.ga pu.luh]
100
one hundred
seratus
[sə.ra.tus]
200
two hundred
dua ratus
[du.(w)a ra.tus]
210
two hundred ten
dua ratus sepuluh
[du.(w)a ra.tus sə.pu.luh]
897
eight hundred ninety seven
delapan ratus sembilan puluh tujuh
[də.la.pan ra.tus səm.bi.lan pu.luh tu.dʒuh]
1000
one thousand
seribu
[sə.ri.bu]
10000
ten thousand
sepuluh ribu
[sə.pu.luh ri.bu]
100000
one hundred thousand
seratus ribu
[sə.ra.tus ri.bu]
1000000
one million
sejutasatu juta
[sə.dʒu.ta][sa.tu dʒu.ta]
1000000000
one billion
satu miliar
[sa.tu mi.li.(j)ar][sa.tu mil.jar]
1000000000000
one trillion
satu triliun
[sa.tu tri.li.(j)un][sa.tu tril.jun]
Ordinal[edit]
Number
English
Indonesian
1st
first
pertama or kesatu
[pər.ta.ma][kə.sa.tu]
2nd
second
kedua
[kə.du.(w)a]
3rd
third
ketiga
[kə.ti.ga]
4th
fourth
keempat
[kə.əm.pat]
5th
fifth
kelima
[kə.li.ma]
6th
sixth
keenam
[kə.ə.nam]
7th
seventh
ketujuh
[kə.tu.dʒuh]
8th
eighth
kedelapan
[kə.də.la.pan]
9th
ninth
kesembilan
[kə.səm.bi.lan]
10th
tenth
kesepuluh
[kə.sə.pu.luh]
Days and months[edit]
Indonesian-language calendar
Days[edit]
English
Indonesian
IPA
Monday
Senin
[sə.nin]
Tuesday
Selasa
[sə.la.sa]
Wednesday
Rabu
[ra.bu]
Thursday
Kamis
[ka.mis]
Friday
Jumat
[dʒum.at]
Saturday
Sabtu
[sab.tu]
Sunday
Minggu
[miŋ.gu]
Months[edit]
English
Indonesian
IPA
January
Januari
[dʒa.nu.(w)a.ri]
February
Februari
[fɛb.ru.(w)a.ri]
March
Maret
[ma.rət]
April
April
[ap.ril]
May
Mei
[meɪ]
June
Juni
[dʒu.ni.]
July
Juli
[dʒu.li]
August
Agustus
[a.gus.tus]
September
September
[sɛp.tɛm.bər]
October
Oktober
[ok.to.bər]
November
November
[no.fɛm.bər]
December
Desember
[dɛ.sɛm.bər]
Common phrases[edit]
English
Indonesian
Spelling (in IPA)
Hello!
Halo!
[ˈhalo]
Good morning!
Selamat pagi!
[sə'lamat ˈpagi]
Good afternoon!
Selamat siang!
[səˈlamat ˈsiaŋ]
Good evening! or Good night!
Selamat malam!
[səˈlamat ˈmalam]
Goodbye!
Selamat tinggal!
[sə'lamat ˈtiŋɡal]
See you later!
Sampai jumpa lagi!
[ˈsampai̯ ˈdʒumpa ˈlagi]
Thank you
Terima kasih (standard, formal)
[təˈrima ˈkasih]
Thanks
Makasih (colloquial)
[maˈkasih]
You are welcome
Sama-sama or terima kasih kembali
[ˈsa'ma ˈsama] or [təˈrima ˈkasih kəm'bali]
Yes
Ya (standard) or iya (colloquial)
[ˈja] or [ˈija]
No
Tidak or tak or enggak (colloquial)
[ˈtidaʔ] or [ˈtaʔ] or [ˈəŋgaʔ]
And
Dan
[ˈdan]
Or
Atau
[a'tau̯]
Because
Karena
[ˈkarəna]
Therefore
Karena itu
[ˈkarəna ˈʔitu]
Nothing
Tidak ada
[ˈtidaʔ ˈada]
Maybe
Mungkin
[ˈmuŋkin]
How are you?
Apa kabar?
[ˈapa ˈkabar]
I am fine
Baik or Baik-baik saja
[ˈbaik] or [ˈbaik ˈbaik ˈsadʒa]
Have a nice day!
Semoga hari Anda menyenangkan!
[sə'moga ˈhari ˈʔanda məɲəˈnaŋkan]
Bon appétit!
Selamat makan! or Selamat menikmati!
[sə'lamat ˈmakan] or [səˈlamat mənikˈmati]
I am sorry
Maafkan saya
[ma'ʔafkan ˈsaja]
Excuse me
Permisi
[pər'misi]
What?
Apa?
[ˈapa]
Who?
Siapa?
[siˈapa]
When?
Kapan?
[ˈkapan]
Where?
Di mana?
[di ˈmana]
Why?
Mengapa? (standard) or kenapa? (colloquial)
[mə'ŋapa] or [kə'napa]
How?
Bagaimana?
[baɡai̯'mana]
How much?
Berapa?
[bə'rapa]
What is your name?
Nama Anda siapa?
[ˈnama ˈʔanda siˈapa]
My name is...
Nama saya...
[ˈnama ˈsaja]
Do you know?
Apakah Anda tahu?
[aˈpakah ˈʔanda ˈtahu]
Yes, I know / No, I do not know
Ya, saya tahu / Tidak, saya tidak tahu
[ˈja ˈsaja ˈtahu] / [ˈtidaʔ ˈsaja ˈtidaʔ ˈtahu]
Can you speak Indonesian?
Bisakah Anda berbicara bahasa Indonesia?
[biˈsakah ˈʔanda bərbiˈtʃara baˈhasa ʔindoˈnesi̯a]
Yes, I can speak Indonesian / No, I can not speak Indonesian
Ya, saya bisa berbicara bahasa Indonesia / Tidak, saya tidak bisa berbicara bahasa indonesia
[ˈja ˈsaja ˈbisa bərbiˈtʃara baˈhasa ʔindoˈnesi̯a] / [ˈtidaʔ ˈsaja ˈtidaʔ ˈbisa bərbiˈtʃara baˈhasa ʔindoˈnesi̯a]
What time is it now?
Pukul berapa sekarang?
[ˈpukul bə'rapa səˈkaraŋ]
It is 5.00 o'clock
Sekarang pukul 5.00
[səˈkaraŋ ˈpukul ˈlima]
When will you go to the party?
Kapan Anda akan pergi ke pesta itu?
[ˈkapan ˈʔanda ˈʔakan pər'gi ke ˈpesta ˈʔitu]
Soon
Nanti
[ˈnanti]
Today
Hari ini
[ˈhari ˈʔini]
Tomorrow
Besok
[ˈbesok]
The day after tomorrow
Lusa
[ˈlusa]
Yesterday
Kemarin
[kə'marin]
Congratulations!
Selamat!
[sə'lamat]
Happy New Year!
Selamat Tahun Baru!
[sə'lamat ˈtahun ˈbaru]
Merry Christmas!
Selamat Natal!
[sə'lamat ˈnatal]
Please
Mohon or tolong
[ˈmohon] or [ˈtoloŋ]
Stop!
Berhenti!
[bər'henti]
I am happy
Saya senang
[ˈsaja sə'naŋ]
I understand
Saya mengerti
[ˈsaja ˈməŋərti]
Help!
Tolong!
[ˈtoloŋ]
I need help
Saya memerlukan bantuan
[ˈsaja məmərˈlukan ban'tuan]
Can you help me?
Bisakah Anda menolong saya?
[biˈsakah ˈʔanda mə'noloŋ ˈsaja]
Can I help you? / Do you need help?
Dapatkah saya membantu Anda? / Apakah Anda membutuhkan bantuan?
[da'patkah ˈsaja məm'bantu ˈʔanda] / [aˈpakah ˈʔanda məmbuˈtuhkan banˈtuan]
May I borrow your eraser?
Bolehkah saya meminjam penghapus Anda?
[boˈlehkah ˈsaja mə'minjam peŋ'hapus ˈʔanda]
With my pleasure
Dengan senang hati
[dəˈŋan sə'naŋ ˈhati]
Welcome
Selamat datang
[sə'lamat ˈdataŋ]
Welcome to Indonesia
Selamat datang di Indonesia
[sə'lamat ˈdataŋ di ʔindoˈnesi̯a]
I agree / I disagree
Saya setuju / Saya tidak setuju
[ˈsaja sə'tudʒu] / [ˈsaja ˈtidaʔ sə'tudʒu]
I understand / I do not understand
Saya mengerti / Saya tidak mengerti
[ˈsaja ˈməŋərti] / [ˈsaja ˈtidaʔ ˈməŋərti]
I am hungry
Saya lapar
[ˈsaja ˈlapar]
I am thirsty
Saya haus
[ˈsaja ˈhaus]
I am sick
Saya sakit
[ˈsaja ˈsakit]
Get well soon
Semoga cepat sembuh
[sə'moga tʃə'pat səmˈbuh]
Next lesson
Pelajaran selanjutnya
[pə'lajaran sə'lanjutnya]
Example[edit]
The following texts are excerpts from the official translations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Indonesian and Malaysian Malay, along with the original declaration in English.
English[115]
Indonesian[116]
Malay[117]
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Pernyataan Umum tentang Hak Asasi Manusia
Perisytiharan Hak Asasi Manusia sejagat
Article 1
Pasal 1
Perkara 1
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Semua orang dilahirkan merdeka dan mempunyai martabat dan hak-hak yang sama. Mereka dikaruniai akal dan hati nurani dan hendaknya bergaul satu sama lain dalam semangat persaudaraan.
Semua manusia dilahirkan bebas dan sama rata dari segi maruah dan hak-hak. Mereka mempunyai pemikiran dan perasaan hati dan hendaklah bergaul dengan semangat persaudaraan.
See also[edit]
Indonesia portalLanguages portal
Austronesian languages
Indonesian Sign Language
Bahasa, for other languages referred to as bahasa
Language families and languages
Malay language
Demographics of Indonesia
Indonesian slang language
Indonesian abbreviated words
Comparison of Standard Malay and Indonesian
List of English words of Indonesian origin
List of loanwords in Indonesian
Okkots
References[edit]
^ a b c d "Penduduk Indonesia Hasil Sensus Penduduk 2010" [Result of Indonesia Population Census 2010)]. Penduduk Indonesia Hasil Sensus Penduduk ... [Population of Indonesia : Result of Indonesia Population Census]. Badan Pusat Statistik: 421, 427. 28 March 2013. ISSN 2302-8513. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 12 April 2015.
^ Penutur Bahasa Indonesia Capai 300 Juta Jiwa (in Indonesian), Gusti, May 2022
^ Leitner, Gerhard; Hashim, Azirah; Wolf, Hans-Georg (2016). Communicating with Asia: The Future of English as a Global Language. Cambridge University Press. p. 180. ISBN 978-1-316-47296-5.
^ a b c "Bahasa dan dialek" (in Indonesian). Republic of Indonesia Embassy in Astana. Archived from the original on 1 May 2013.
^ "Bahasa Melayu Riau dan Bahasa Nasional". Melayu Online. Archived from the original on 22 November 2011. Retrieved 29 March 2012.
^ "Dialect: Colloquial Jakarta Indonesian". glottolog.org. Retrieved 19 June 2023.
^ a b c "East Timor Languages". www.easttimorgovernment.com. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 21 March 2016.
^ a b c d Article 36 of The 1945 Constitution of The Republic of Indonesia  – via Wikisource.
^ a b Uri Tadmor (2008). "Grammatical borrowing in Indonesian". In Yaron Matras; Jeanette Sakel (eds.). Grammatical Borrowing in Cross-Linguistic Perspective. Walter de Gruyter. p. 301. ISBN 978-3-11-019919-2.
^ "Badan Pusat Statistik". www.bps.go.id. Retrieved 19 October 2022.
^ a b c d e James Neil Sneddon. The Indonesian Language: Its History and Role in Modern Society. UNSW Press, 2004.
^ a b Setiono Sugiharto (28 October 2013). "Indigenous language policy as a national cultural strategy". The Jakarta Post. Archived from the original on 16 September 2018. Retrieved 9 January 2014.
^ Hammam Riza (2008). "Resources Report on Languages of Indonesia" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 January 2014. Retrieved 9 January 2014.
^ a b c George Quinn. "The Indonesian Language". www.hawaii.edu. Archived from the original on 25 December 2010. Retrieved 17 January 2022.
^ Berlie, Jean A. (1 October 2017). "A Socio-Historical Essay: Traditions, Indonesia, Independence, and Elections". East Timor's Independence, Indonesia and ASEAN. Springer. ISBN 9783319626307.
^ Ramos-Horta, J. (20 April 2012). "Timor Leste, Tetum, Portuguese, Bahasa Indonesia or English?". The Jakarta Post.
^ a b c Sneddon, James (2003). "Diglossia in Indonesian". Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde. 159 (4): 519–549. doi:10.1163/22134379-90003741. ISSN 0006-2294. JSTOR 27868068.
^ Uri Tadmor (2009). "Malay-Indonesian". In Bernard Comrie (ed.). The World's Major Languages. Routledge. p. 791. ISBN 9781134261567.
^ Sneddon, James (2003). The Indonesian language: its history and role in modern society. Sydney: University of New South Wales Press. ISBN 978-0868405988.
^ "Bahasa Melayu Riau dan Bahasa Nasional". Melayu Online. Archived from the original on 22 November 2011. Retrieved 29 March 2012.
^ Abas, Husen (1987). Indonesian as a Unifying Language of Wider Communication : A Historical and Sociolinguistic Perspective. Pacific Linguistics, D-73. Pacific Linguistics. pp. 26–28. doi:10.15144/PL-D73. ISBN 0858833581. Archived from the original on 26 September 2020. Retrieved 28 December 2020.
^ a b Sneddon 2003, The Indonesian Language: Its History and Role in Modern Society, p. 70
^ Nothofer, Bernd (2009). "Malay". In Kevin Brown; Sarah Ogilvie (eds.). Concise Encyclopedia of Languages of the World. pp. 677–680.
^ "Ethnologue: Languages of the World". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 27 December 2007. Retrieved 27 December 2006.
^ a b "BUKU PROFIL KEPAKSIAN.pdf - Google Drive". Retrieved 7 August 2022.
^ Southeast Asia Digital Library: About Malay Archived 16 June 2007 at archive.today
^ "Sriwijaya dalam Tela'ah". Melayu Online. 5 June 2007. Archived from the original on 22 October 2012. Retrieved 1 April 2012.
^ Bambang Budi Utomo (23 January 2008). "Risen Up Maritime Nation!". Melayu Online. Archived from the original on 22 October 2012. Retrieved 1 April 2012.
^ "Bahasa Indonesia: Memasyarakatkan Kembali 'Bahasa Pasar'?". Melayu Online. Archived from the original on 30 June 2012. Retrieved 29 March 2012.
^ a b c d de Swaan, Abram (2001). Words of the World. Cambridge, UK: Polity. pp. 81–95. ISBN 978-0745627489.
^ Soenjono Dardjowidjojo (1998). "Strategies for a successful national language policy: the Indonesian case". International Journal of the Sociology of Language. 130 (130): 35–47. doi:10.1515/ijsl.1998.130.35. S2CID 143634760.
^ George Quinn. "Bahasa Indonesia: The Indonesian Language". Archived from the original on 8 May 2005.
^ Fogg, Kevin W. (2015). "The standardisation of the Indonesian language and its consequences for Islamic communities". Journal of Southeast Asian Studies. 46 (1): 86–110. doi:10.1017/S0022463414000629. ISSN 0022-4634. S2CID 145518202.
^ a b c d Paauw, Scott (2009). "One Land, One Nation, One Language: An Analysis of Indonesia's National Language Policy" (PDF). University of Rochester Working Papers in the Language Sciences. 5 (1): 2–16. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 December 2014. Retrieved 18 December 2014.
^ Government of Jakarta (2017). "Mohammad Tabrani" (in Indonesian). Archived from the original on 1 August 2020. Retrieved 27 November 2019.
^ Leitner, Gerhard; Hashim, Azirah; Wolf, Hans-Georg (2016). Communicating with Asia: The Future of English as a Global Language. Cambridge University Press. p. 180. ISBN 978-1-316-47296-5.
^ Nurdjan, Sukirman; Firman, Mirnawati (2016). Indonesian language for Higher Education (eng). Indonesia: Aksara Timur. p. 4. ISBN 978-602-73433-6-8. Retrieved 30 December 2020.
^ Ardanareswari, Indira (25 June 2019). "History of The Indonesian Language Congress I: Inaugurating The United Language (eng)". tirto.id. Tirto. Retrieved 28 December 2020.
^ a b Kratz, U. (2006). "Indonesia * : Language Situation". Indonesia: language situation. Encyclopedia of Language & Linguistics (Second ed.). pp. 639–641. doi:10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/01720-X. ISBN 9780080448541.
^ "Publication Name". Archived from the original on 10 July 2017. Retrieved 4 December 2018.
^ Why no-one speaks Indonesia's language, BBC, by David Fettling, 4 July 2018
^ Pepinsky, Thomas B.; Abtahian, Maya Ravindranath; Cohn, Abigail C. (24 March 2022). "Urbanization, ethnic diversity, and language shift in Indonesia". Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development: 1–19. doi:10.1080/01434632.2022.2055761. ISSN 0143-4632.
^ Adelaar, K. Alexander (2004). "Where does Malay come from? Twenty years of discussions about homeland, migrations and classifications" (PDF). Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde. 160 (1): 1–30. doi:10.1163/22134379-90003733. hdl:11343/122869. JSTOR 27868100. S2CID 59381288. Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 October 2022.
^ Andaya, Leonard Y. (2001). "The Search for the 'Origins' of Melayu" (PDF). Journal of Southeast Asian Studies. 32 (3): 315–330. doi:10.1017/s0022463401000169. JSTOR 20072349. S2CID 62886471. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Adelaar, K. Alexander; Himmelmann, Nikolaus (7 March 2013). The Austronesian Languages of Asia and Madagascar. Routledge. ISBN 9781136755095.
^ Sugiharto, Setiono (25 October 2008). "Indonesian-Malay mutual intelligibility?". Retrieved 6 December 2019.(registration required)
^ Munir Hamidy, Badrul (1985). Kamus Lengkap Indonesia-Rejang, Rejang-Indonesia. Pusat Pembinaan dan Pengembangan Bahasa, Departemen Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan. p. xv.
^ a b c d Poedjosoedarmo, Soepomo (1982). "Javanese influence on Indonesian phonology". Javanese influence on Indonesian (PDF). D. Vol. 38. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics. pp. 19–50. Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 October 2022.
^ "The Indonesian Language (James N Sneddon) – book review". dannyreviews.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ "The Dutch East Indies in photographs, 1860–1940 – Memory of the Netherlands". www.geheugenvannederland.nl. Archived from the original on 8 May 2019. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Steinhauer, H. (1980). "On the history of Indonesian". Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics. 1: 349–375. JSTOR 40996873.
^ "Language interference: Indonesian and English". www.macmillandictionaries.com. Archived from the original on 29 July 2017. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Discussed at Talk:Indonesian language. See the section 'English loanwords from Malay or Indonesian?'.
^ "amok | Search Online Etymology Dictionary". www.etymonline.com. Retrieved 6 July 2021.
^ "Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia) – About World Languages". aboutworldlanguages.com. Archived from the original on 8 May 2019. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ "History of Indonesian". ipll.manoa.hawaii.edu. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Pratika, D. (2016). "The Existence of Indonesian Language: Pidgin or Creole". Journal on English as a Foreign Language. 6 (2): 83–100. doi:10.23971/jefl.v6i2.397. Archived from the original on 6 February 2019. Retrieved 1 March 2019.
^ "Voice of America Bahasa Indonesia". Voice of Indonesia. Archived from the original on 1 April 2012. Retrieved 1 April 2012.
^ "Languages: News and Analysis in your Language". BBC World Service. Archived from the original on 1 April 2012. Retrieved 1 April 2012.
^ Wesley, Michael (10 June 2009). Building an Asia-literate Australia: an Australian strategy for Asian language proficiency (Report). Australian Policy Online. Archived from the original on 2 July 2012. Retrieved 10 July 2012.
^ "Indonesian". www.australiancurriculum.edu.au.
^ "Indonesian Language Officially Taught at Vietnam National University". english.vietnamnet.vn. Archived from the original on 1 July 2022. Retrieved 19 July 2022.
^ "Indonesian, Thai, and Spanish language versions of the 'Marugoto (A1) Japanese Online Course' are now available". kansai.jpf.go.jp. Japanese-Language Institute, Kansai. Archived from the original on 13 September 2021. Retrieved 13 September 2021.
^ "The Indonesian, Vietnamese and Thai Language Courses". cltr.asia.edu.tw. Taiwan (Republic of China): Center for the Development of Language Teaching and Research, Asia University. Archived from the original on 13 September 2021. Retrieved 13 September 2021.
^ "Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian language)". sas.fas.harvard.edu. Harvard University: Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
^ "Cambridge IGCSE Indonesian - Foreign Language". cambridgeinternational.org. Cambridge University Press & Assessment. Archived from the original on 13 September 2021. Retrieved 13 September 2021.
^ "Indonesian Studies". arts.adelaide.edu.au. The University of Adelaide, Australia.
^ "Indonesia's geographic proximity and strategic importance to Australia make it vital to understand its peoples, politics, history, languages and cultures". The University of Melbourne. 22 May 2023.
^ "Indonesian studies". Monash University, Australia.
^ Hamish Curry (18 March 2021). "Teaching Indonesian in Australian Schools". The University of Melbourne.
^ "Department of Indonesian Studies". www.sydney.edu.au. The University of Sydney, Australia.
^ a b c "Undang-undang Republik Indonesia Nomor 24 Tahun 2009 2009 Tentang Bendera, Bahasa, dan Lambang Negara, serta Lagu Kebangsaan". Law No. 24 of 2009 (in Indonesian). People's Representative Council.
^ "Indonesian, A language of Indonesia". Ethnologue. Archived from the original on 9 June 2012. Retrieved 10 July 2012.
^ "Who is Malay?". July 2005. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016.
^ a b c SGR, Baun Thoib Soaloon (30 January 2020). "Inilah 14 Ranah Wajib Bahasa Indonesia". Balai Bahasa Provinsi Aceh. Retrieved 18 January 2023.
^ "Indonesian language in contracts - a strict requirement". HFW. Retrieved 18 January 2023.
^ websitefeedbacklondon@hsf.com (6 November 2019). "Update on Indonesian Language Requirements for Contracts with Indonesian Parties". Herbert Smith Freehills | Global law firm. Retrieved 18 January 2023.
^ a b Soderberg, C. D.; Olson, K. S. (2008). "Indonesian". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 38 (2): 209–213. doi:10.1017/s0025100308003320.
^ Anton M. Moeliono; Hans Lapoliwa; Hasan Alwi; Sry Satrya Tjatur Wisnu Sasangka; Sugiyono (2017). Tata Bahasa Baku Bahasa Indonesia (4th ed.). Jakarta: Badan Pengembangan dan Pembinaan Bahasa.
^ Karyati, Zetty (5 December 2016). "Antara EYD dan PUEBI: Suatu Analisis Komparatif". SAP (Susunan Artikel Pendidikan). 1 (2). doi:10.30998/sap.v1i2.1024. ISSN 2549-2845.
^ Yunus Maris, M. (1980). The Indonesian Sound System. Kuala Lumpur: Penerbit Fajar Bakti Sdn. Bhd, page 2.
^ a b "Keputusan Kepala Badan Pengembangan dan Pembinaan Bahasa Kementerian Pendidikan, Kebudayaan, Riset, dan Teknologi Republik Indonesia Nomor 0424/I/BS.00.01/2022 Tentang Ejaan Bahasa Indonesia Yang Disempurnakan". Language Center Decree No. 0424/I/BS.00.01/2022 of 2022 (in Indonesian). Language Development and Fostering Agency.
^ Clynes, A (1997). "On the Proto-Austronesian 'diphthongs'". Oceanic Linguistics. 36 (2): 347–362. doi:10.2307/3622989. JSTOR 3622989.
^ a b Clynes, A.; Deterding, D. (2011). "Standard Malay (Brunei)". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 41 (2): 259–268. doi:10.1017/S002510031100017X.
^ Asmah Haji Omar (2008). Ensiklopedia Bahasa Melayu. Kuala Lumpur: Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka, page 108.
^ Yunus Maris, M. (1980). The Indonesian Sound System. Kuala Lumpur: Penerbit Fajar Bakti Sdn. Bhd, page 52.
^ To Tap or Not To Tap: A Preliminary Acoustic Description of American English Alveolar Tap Productions by Indonesian Bilingual Adults
^ a b Mohd Don, Zuraidah; Knowles, G.; Yong, J. (2008). "How words can be misleading: A study of syllable timing and 'stress' in Malay". The Linguistics Journal. 3 (2). Archived from the original on 1 August 2019. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Gil, David. "A Typology of Stress, And Where Malay/Indonesian Fits In" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 February 2012. Retrieved 25 March 2012. (abstract only)
^ Roach, P. (1982). "On the distinction between 'stress-timed' and 'syllable-timed' languages".  In D. Crystal (ed.), Linguistic Controversies (pp. 73–79). London: Edward Arnold.
^ Deterding, D. (2011). "Measurements of the rhythm of Malay". In Proceedings of the 17th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences, Hong Kong, 17–21 August 2011, pp. 576–579. On-line Version Archived 15 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine
^ The root ajar retrieves a historic initial l after the suffixes ber- and pe(r)-.
^ ""You" in Indonesian". Archived from the original on 3 August 2021. Retrieved 4 August 2021.
^ M.B. Lewis, 1947, Teach Yourself Indonesian, p. 178, ASIN: B0007JGNQO
^ "Malay language, alphabets and pronunciation". www.omniglot.com. Archived from the original on 26 June 2019. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ This is research led by J. W. de Vries of the University of Leiden in the Netherlands
^ C. D. Grijns; et al. (eds.). "Loan-words in Indonesian and Malay". ASEASUK, Association of South-East Asian Studies in the United Kingdom. Archived from the original on 12 November 2012. Retrieved 21 July 2012.
^ "Badan Pengembangan dan Pembinaan Bahasa – Kementerian Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan". badanbahasa.kemdikbud.go.id. Archived from the original on 9 March 2016. Retrieved 14 March 2016.
^ a b Errington, J. Joseph (1998). "Introduction". Shifting Languages: Interaction and Identity in Javanese Indonesia (PDF). Cambridge University Press. Archived (PDF) from the original on 15 March 2016. Retrieved 14 March 2016.
^ "Etymology of "selamat" in Asalkata.com". Archived from the original on 24 October 2017. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Ricklefs, M.C. (1991). A History of Modern Indonesia Since c.1300 (2nd ed.). London: MacMillan. p. 26. ISBN 978-0-333-57689-2.
^ Hendrik M. Maier (8 February 2005). "A Hidden Language – Dutch in Indonesia". Institute of European Studies. Archived from the original on 10 October 2009. Retrieved 26 March 2015.
^ "Imbuhan -(a)si dan -(i)tas dalam Bahasa Indonesia" (in Indonesian). Balai Bahasa Jawa Tengah. 28 July 2010. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
^ "A. Penulisan Unsur Serapan Umum". Kemendikbud.go.id (in Indonesian). Retrieved 13 December 2022.
^ a b Katarina Mellyna (2011). "Kata Serapan dan Kata Non-Serapan dalam Orang Asing dan Sang Pemberontak: Sebuah Kajian Semantis" [The Loanword and Non-Loanword in Orang Asing and Sang Pemberontak: A Semantic Study] (PDF). University of Indonesia. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Sneddon, James (2003). The Indonesian Language: Its History and Role in Modern Society. Sydney: USNW Press. pp. 145–149. ISBN 9780868405988.
^ "Indonesian Literature". Resourceful Indonesian. Archived from the original on 18 June 2018. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Sumardjo, Jakob. "Recent Writers in Indonesia" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 October 2017. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Watson, C W (2007). "A new introduction to modern Indonesian literature". Indonesia Circle. School of Oriental & African Studies. Newsletter. 10 (29): 33–40. doi:10.1080/03062848208729531.
^ Rahmiasri, Masajeng (20 August 2016). "Must-read Indonesian classic novels". The Jakarta Post. Archived from the original on 28 November 2018. Retrieved 13 October 2019.
^ Department Pendidikan Nasional (2006). Lentera Indonesia 1. Jakarta: Department Pendidikan Nasional. p. v. ISBN 978-979-685-403-5.
^ "Conference Report: The Fourth International Conference on Teaching Indonesian to Speakers of Other Languages". www.ialf.edu. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 26 August 2013.
^ Rainier Alain, Ronda (22 March 2013). "Bahasa in schools? DepEd eyes 2nd foreign language". The Philippine Star. Archived from the original on 13 May 2013. Retrieved 11 June 2013.
^ "Indonesian Language Classes". Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia, Washington, DC. Archived from the original on 31 October 2018. Retrieved 30 October 2018.
^ "OHCHR -". www.ohchr.org. Archived from the original on 30 August 2016. Retrieved 16 August 2016.
^ "OHCHR -". www.ohchr.org. Archived from the original on 21 September 2016. Retrieved 16 August 2016.
^ "OHCHR -". www.ohchr.org. Archived from the original on 21 September 2016. Retrieved 16 August 2016.
External links[edit]
 Indonesian  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Indonesian
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Indonesian.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Indonesian language.
How many people speak Indonesian?
Indonesian Swadesh list of basic vocabulary words (from Wiktionary's Swadesh-list appendix)
KBBI Daring (Kamus Besar Bahasa Indonesia dalam jaringan) (online version of the Kamus Besar Bahasa Indonesia, by the Language and Book Development Agency, in Indonesian only)
babla.co.id English-Indonesian dictionary from bab.la, a language learning portal
English-Indonesian dictionaries[edit]
Download Kamus 2.0.4
download Indonesian English dictionary – IndoDic Download Kamus Inggris Indonesia – IndoDic
vteLanguages of IndonesiaWestern languagesMalayo-Sumbawan
Indonesian
Slang
Acehnese
Balinese
Bamayo
Banjarese
Boyanese
Duano'
Haji
Iban
Kangean
Kendayan
Keninjal
Kubu
Lubu
Loncong
Madurese
Malay
Anambas-Natuna
Bangka
Bengkulu
Berau
Col/Lembak
Jambi
Kaur
Jaring Halus
Kerinci
Kutai
Palembang-Musi
Pekal
Pontianak
Riau
Minangkabau
Mualang
Sasak
Seberuang
Sumbawan
Sundanese
Baduy
Bantenese
Javanese
Javanese
Banyumasan
Osing
Tenggerese
Kawi 
Celebic
Andio
Bada
Bahonsuai
Balaesang
Balantak
Banggai
Batui
Behoa
Boano
Bobongko
Bonerate
Bungku
Busoa
Cia-Cia
Dampelas
Dondo
Kalao
Kaili
Kaimbulawa
Kamaru
Kodeoha
Kulisusu
Kumbewaha
Lasalimu
Laiyolo
Lauje
Liabuku
Mbelala
Moronene
Mori Bawah
Mori Atas
Moma
Muna
Napu
Padoe
Pancana
Pendau
Rahambuu
Rampi
Saluan
Sarudu
Sedoa
Pamona
Taje
Tajio
Tukang Besi
Tolaki
Tomadino
Topoiyo
Tomini
Totoli
Uma
Waru
Wawonii
Wolio
Wotu
Lampungic
Komering
Lampung
Northwest Sumatra–Barrier Islands
Batak
Alas
Batak Angkola
Batak Dairi
Batak Karo
Batak Mandailing
Batak Simalungun
Batak Toba
Enggano
Gayo
Mentawai
Nias
Simeulue
Sikule
South Sulawesi
Aralle-Tabulahan
Bambam
Bentong
Budong-Budong
Buginese
Campalagian
Coastal Konjo
Dakka
Duri
Embaloh
Enrekang
Highland Konjo
Kalumpang
Lemolang
Maiwa
Makassarese
Malimpung
Mamasa
Mamuju
Mandar
Panasuan
Pannei
Selayar
Seko Padang
Seko Tengah
Tae’
Talondo’
Taman
Toraja-Sa’dan
Ulumanda’
Barito
Ampanang
Bakumpai
Bajaw 
Deyah
Kohin
Lawangan
Ma'anyan
Malang
Ngaju
Ot Danum
Sama 
Ot Siang
Tunjung
Witu
Pakau
Kayan–Murik
Aoheng
Aput
Bahau
Hovongan
Kayan
Krio
Modang
Punan Merah
Segai
Land Dayak
Bakati’
Biatah
Bukar Sadong
Jangkang
Kembayan
Laraʼ
Nyadu’
Rejangese
Ribun
Sanggau
Sara
Semandang
Beginci
Gerai
Tringgus
North Bornean
Bah-Biau
Basap
Bukat
Bukitan
Kelabit
Kenyah
Mainstream
Lengilu
Lun Bawang
Murut
Okolod
Selungai
Sembakung
Tagol
Punan Merap
Punan Tubu
Sa'ban
Sajau
Tidung
Burusu
Kalabakan
Nonukan
Philippine languagesCentral Philippine
Tausug
Gorontalo-Mongondow
Bintauna
Bolango
Buol
Gorontaloan
Kaidipang
Lolak
Mongondow
Ponosakan
Suwawa
Minahasan
Tombulu
Tondano
Tonsawang
Tonsea
Tontemboan
Sangiric
Bantik
Ratahan
Sangirese
Talaud
Central-Eastern languagesAru
Barakai
Batuley
Dobel
Karey
Koba
Kola-Kompane
Lola
Lorang
Manombai
Mariri
Tarangan
Ujir
Central Maluku
Alune
Amahai
Ambelau
Asilulu
Banda
Bati
Benggoi
Boano
Bobot
Buru
Geser
Haruku
Hitu
Hoti
Huaulu
Hulung
Kaibobo
Kamarian
Kowiai
Laha
Larike-Wakasihu
Latu
Liana-Seti
Lisabata-Nuniali
Lisela
Loun
Luhu
Mangole
Manipa
Manusela
Masiwang
Naka'ela
Nuaulu
Nusa Laut
Paulohi
Salas
Saleman
Saparua
Seit-Kaitetu
Sepa-Teluti
Sula
Taliabo
Teor-Kur
Tulehu
Watubela
Wemale
Yalahatan
Flores–Lembata
Alorese
Kedang
Lamaholot
 Adonara 
 Ile Ape 
 Lamalera 
 Lamatuka 
 Levuka 
 Lewo Eleng 
 Lewotobi 
 South Lembata 
 West Lembata 
Sika
Halmahera-Cenderawasih
Ambai
Ambel 
Ansus
Arguni
As
Bedoanas
Biak
Biga 
Buli
Busami
Dusner
Erokwanas
Gane 
Irarutu
Iresim
Kuri
Kurudu
Maba 
Maden 
Matbat 
Ma'ya
Munggui
Marau
Meoswar
Mor
Papuma
Patani 
Pom
Roon
Sawai 
Serui-Laut
Taba 
Tandia
Wabo
Wamesa 
Wandamen
Waropen
Woi
Yaur
Yeretuar
Yeresiam 
Kei-Tanimbar
Fordata
Kei
Onin
Sekar
Uruangnirin
Yamdena
Selaru
Selaru
Seluwasan
Sumba–Flores
Anakalangu
Baliledo
Bima
Dhao
Ende
Gaura
Hawu
Kambera
Kéo
Kodi
Komodo
Lamboya
Lio
Mamboru
Manggarai
Nage
Ngadha
Palu'e
Pondok
Rajong
Rembong
Riung
Rongga
So'a
Kepo'
Wae Rana
Wanukaka
Wejewa
Timor–Babar
Amarasi
Bekais
Bilba
Dai
Dawera-Daweloor
Dela-Oenale
Dengka
East Damar
Emplawas
Galoli
Helong
Imroing
Kemak 
Kisar
Leti
Lole
Luang
Masela
Nila
North Babar
Ringgou
Romang
Serili
Serua
Southeast Babar
Tela'a
Termanu
Tetum
Te'un
Tii
Uab Meto
West Damar
Welaun 
Wetar
Western Oceanic
Anus
Bonggo
Kayupulau
Liki
Masimasi
Ormu
Podena
Kaptiau
Sobei
Tarpia
Tobati
Wakde
Yamna
Papuan languagesNorth Halmahera
Galela
Gamkonora
Loloda
Modole
Pagu
Sahu
Tabaru
Ternate
Tidore
Tobelo
Waioli
West Makian
Timor–Alor–Pantar
Abui
Adang
Blagar
Bunak
Kaera
Kafoa
Kamang
Klon
Kui
Kula
Nedebang
Oirata
Retta
Sawila
Teiwa
Wersing
Western Pantar
Woisika 
Asmat–Mombum
Buruwai
Casuarina Coast Asmat
Central Asmat
North Asmat
Citak 
Mombum 
Kamberau
Kamoro
Koneraw 
Sempan 
West Bird's Head
Kalabra
Kuwani
Moi
Moraid
Seget
Tehit
South Bird's Head
Arandai
Dombano 
Duriankari
Inanwatan
Kaburi
Kais
Kemberano
Kokoda 
Konda
Kovojab 
Puragi
Yahadian
East Bird's Head
Hatam
Mansim
Meyah
Moskona
Sougb
West Bomberai
Baham
Iha
Karas
Dani
Grand Valley Dani
Hupla
Nduga
Nggem
Silimo
Walak
Wano
Western Dani
Yali
Paniai Lakes
Auye
Dao
Ekari
Moni
Wolani
Digul River
Aghu 
Awbono 
Bayono 
Densar 
Edera
Jair
Kombai
Komyandaret 
Korowai 
Mandobo 
Pisa 
Sawi 
Shiaxa 
Tsaukambo 
Wambon
Foja Range
Airoran
Bagusa
Berik 
Betaf 
Bonerif 
Dabe 
Dineor 
Edwas 
Gresi
Isirawa 
Itik 
Kapori 
Kauwera
Keijar 
Kemtuik
Kwerba 
Kwerba Mamberamo
Kwesten 
Kwinsu 
Mander
Massep 
Mawes 
Mekwei 
Mlap
Namblong 
Nimboran 
Orya 
Sause 
Oksapmin
Samarokena
Trimuris 
Vitou 
Lakes Plain
Awera
Biritai 
Doutai 
Duvle 
Eritai 
Fayu 
Foau 
Iau 
Kaiy 
Keuw 
Kirikiri 
Kwerisa 
Obokuitai 
Papasena 
Rasawa 
Sikaritai 
Tause 
Taworta 
Waritai 
East Cenderawasih Bay
Baropasi 
Bauzi 
Burate 
Demisa 
Kofei 
Nisa-Anasi
Sauri 
Tefaro 
Tunggare 
Woria
Yawa 
Saweru 
Yawa 
Demta–Sentani
Demta 
Nafri
Sentani
Tabla
Ok
Burumakok 
Faiwol 
Iwur 
Kopka 
Muyu 
Nakai 
Ngalum 
Ninggerum 
Tangko 
Tifal 
Yonggom 
Momuna–Mek
Eipo 
Goliath 
Ketengban 
Kosarek 
Korupun 
Nalca 
Nipsan 
Somahai 
Skou 
Skou
South Pauwasi
Biksi-Yetfa
Kimki 
Lepki 
Murkim 
East Pauwasi
Emem 
Zorop 
West Pauwasi
Namla 
Tebi 
Tofanma 
Towei 
Usku 
Kaure–Kosare
Kaure 
Kosare 
Marind–Yaqai
Bipim 
Marind 
Yaqay 
Bulaka River
Maklew 
Yelmek 
Kayagar 
Atohwaim 
Kayagar 
Tamagario 
Border
Awyi 
Elseng 
Taikat 
Manem
Sowanda 
Viid
Waris 
Senagi 
Dera 
Mairasi 
Mairasi 
Mer 
Semimi 
Kolopom 
Kimaghama 
Morori 
Ndom 
Riantana 
Yam
Ngkolmpu Kanum
Rema 
Smerki 
Tamer 
Yei 
Lower Mamberamo
Warembori 
Yoke 
Others
Abinomn 
Abun
Amung 
Burmeso
Dem 
Kanum
Maklew
Maybrat
Molof 
Momina
Mor 
Mpur
Other languagesCreoles and PidginsMalay-based creoles
Alor Malay
Ambonese Malay
Bandanese Malay
Bacanese Malay
Balinese Malay
Betawi
Gorap
Gorontaloan Malay
Kupang Malay
Larantuka Malay
Manado Malay
Makassar Malay
North Moluccan Malay
Papuan Malay
Peranakan
Serui Malay
Other creoles and pidgins
Javindo
Petjo
Mardijker
Pidgin Iha
Pidgin Onin
Portugis
Bidau Creole Portuguese
Immigrant languagesChinese
Cantonese
Hakka
Fujianese
Hokkien
Medan
Riau
Tiochiu
Hainanese
Hinghwa
Fuzhounese
Mandarin
European
Dutch
English
Portuguese
Indian
Bengali 
Gujarati 
Odia
Pali 
Punjabi 
Sanskrit
Sindhi 
Tamil
Telugu 
Urdu
Middle Eastern
Arabic
Hadhrami Arabic
Modern Standard Arabic
Persian
Others
Filipino 
Japanese 
Korean
Sign languages
Indonesian Sign Languages
Kata Kolok
vteLanguages of East TimorOfficial languages
Portuguese
Tetum
National languages
Atauru
Baikeno
Bekais
Bunak
Fataluku
Galoli
Habun
Idalaka
Kawaimina
Kemak
Makalero
Makasae
Makuva
Mambai
Tokodede
Hakka
Working languages
English
Indonesian
vteLanguages of the NetherlandsOfficial
Dutch (national)
English
West Frisian
Papiamento
Non-official
Ambonese
Arabic
Indonesian
Javanese
Limburgish
Low Saxon
Minangkabau
Ripuarian
Romani
Yiddish
Sign language
Dutch Sign Language
vteLanguages of TaiwanAustronesianFormosanAtayalic
Atayal
Seediq
Truku
Rukaic
Rukai
Northern
Babuza
Favorlang
Taokas
Papora
Hoanya
Arikun
Lloa
Pazeh
Kaxabu
Kulon
Saisiyat
Thao
East
Amis
Kavalan
Ketagalan
Basay
Luilang
Makatao
Qauqaut
Sakizaya
Siraya
Taivoan
Southern
Bunun
Paiwan
Puyuma
Tsouic
Kanakanavu
Saaroa
Tsou
Malayo-PolynesianBatanic
Yami
Sino-TibetanSiniticMandarin
Taiwanese Mandarin
Junhua
MinSouthern
Taiwanese Hokkien
Teochew dialect
Eastern
Fuzhounese
Matsu dialect
Pu-Xian
Putian dialect (Wuqiu dialect)
Hakka
Taiwanese Hakka
Sixian
Hailu
Dabu
Raoping
Zhao'an
Japonic Sign
Taiwanese Sign Language
Auxiliary
Taiwanese Braille
Other languages
English
Cantonese
Wu
Shanghainese
Filipino
Japanese
Korean
Malay
Malaysian
Indonesian
Thai
Vietnamese
Yilan Creole Japanese
vteAustronesian languagesFormosan languagesRukaic
Rukai
Tsouic
Tsou
Kanakanavu
Saaroa
NorthernAtayalic
Atayal
Seediq
NorthwestFormosan
Saisiyat
Pazeh †
Kulon †
Thao
Babuza
Favorlang †
Papora-Hoanya †
EastKavalanic
Basay †
Kavalan
Luilang †
Ami
Amis
Sakizaya
Siraiyac
Siraya †
Taivoan †
Southern ?
Puyuma
Paiwan
Bunun
Malayo–PolynesianWestern branches of Malayo–PolynesianPhilippine(linkage) ?Batanic (Bashiic)
Itbayat
Ivatan
Yami
Northern Luzon
Arta
Dicamay Agta †
Ilocano
Cagayan Valley
Atta
Cagayan Agta
Ga'dang
Gaddang
Ibanag
Isnag
Itawis
Yogad
Meso-Cordilleran
Northern Alta
Southern Alta
Central Cordilleran
Balangao
Bontoc
Ifugao
Isinai
Itneg
Kalinga
Kankanaey
Tuwali
Southern Cordilleran
Bugkalot
Ibaloi
Iwaak
Kalanguya
Karao
Pangasinan
Central Luzon
Kapampangan
Hatang Kayi (Remontado)
Sambalic
Abellen
Ambala
Mag-antsi
Bolinao
Botolan
Mag-indi
Mariveleño
Sambal
Northern Mindoro
Alangan
Iraya
Tadyawan
Greater CentralPhilippineSouthern Mindoro
Buhid
Hanunoo
Tawbuid
Central PhilippineTagalogic
Filipino
Kasiguranin
Tagalog
Old Tagalog †
Batangueño
Bikol
Albay Bikol
Central Bikol
Isarog Agta
Mount Iraya Agta
Mount Iriga Agta
Pandan Bikol
Rinconada
Bisayan
Akeanon
Asi
Bantayanon
Baybay
Butuanon
Caluyanon
Capiznon
Cebuano
Boholano
Old Cebuano †
Cuyonon
Hiligaynon
Kabalian
Karay-a
Karolanos
Magahat
Masbateño
Northern Sorsogon
Onhan
Porohanon
Ratagnon
Romblomanon
Southern Sorsogon
Sulod
Surigaonon
Tausug
Waray
Mansakan
Davawenyo
Kalagan
Kamayo
Mamanwa
Mandaya
Mansaka
(unclassified)
Ata †
Palawanic
Aborlan Tagbanwa
Batak
Central Tagbanwa
Palawano
Taaw't Bato
Subanen
Western Subanon
Danao
Iranun
Maguindanao
Maranao
Manobo
Agusan
Ata Manobo
Binukid
Cotabato Manobo
Higaonon
Ilianen
Kagayanen
Kamigin
Matigsalug
Obo
Sarangani
Tagabawa
Western Bukidnon
Gorontalo–Mongondow
Bintauna
Bolango
Buol
Gorontalo
Kaidipang
Lolak
Mongondow
Ponosakan
Suwawa
Kalamian
Agutaynen
Calamian Tagbanwa
Bilic
Blaan
Tboli
Teduray
Sangiric
Bantik
Ratahan
Sangirese
Talaud
Minahasan
Tombulu
Tondano
Tonsawang
Tonsea
Tontemboan
Other branches
Ati
Klata
Umiray Dumaget
Manide–Alabat
Inagta Alabat
Manide
Greater Barito *Barito
Malagasy
Bushi
Deyah
Malang
Witu
Balangan
Ma'anyan
Paku
Lawangan
Kohin
Dohoi
Siang
Bakumpai
Ngaju
Ampanang
Tunjung
Sama–Bajaw
Abaknon
Bajaw
Mapun
Pangutaran Sama
Sama
West Coast Bajaw
Yakan
Basap *GreaterNorth Borneo *North Borneo *Northeast Sabah *
Ida'an
Bonggi
Molbog ?
Southwest Sabah *GreaterDusunic *Bisaya–Lotud
Brunei Bisaya
Lotud
Dusunic
Kadazandusun
Central Dusun
Coastal Kadazan
Kuijau
Eastern Kadazan
Kota Marudu Talantang
Rungus / Momogun
Klias River Kadazan
Paitanic
Tombonuwo
Kinabatangan
Abai Sungai
Serudung
GreaterMurutic *
Tatana ?
Papar
Murutic
Tagol
Timugon
Keningau
Selungai
Sembakung
Baukan
Okolod
Paluan
Ganaʼ
Kalabakan
Nonukan Tidong
Sesayap Tidong
North Sarawak *
Kenyah / Bakung
Sebob
Tutoh
Umaʼ Lasan
Wahau Kenyah
Penan ?
Kelabit
Lengilu
Lundayeh
Sa'ban
Tring
Berawan
Belait
Kiput
Narom
Tutong
Bintulu
Central Sarawak
Kajaman
Lahanan
Sekapan
Daro-Matu
Kanowit–Tanjong
Melanau
Bukitan
Punan Batu
Sian
Ukit
Burusu
Bah-Biau Punan
Sajau
Punan Merap
Bukat
Seru †
Lelak †
Kayanic
Kayan
Bahau
Modang
Segai
Hovongan
Aoheng
Aput
Punan
Krio Dayak
Murik
Land Dayak
Bakatiʼ
Sara
Laraʼ
Bukar–Sadong
Biatah
Tringgus
Jagoi
Jangkang
Kembayan
Semandang
Ribun
Benyaduʼ
Sanggau
Malayo–Chamic *Aceh–Chamic
Acehnese
Cham dialects
Chru
Haroi
Jarai
Rade
Roglai
Tsat
Iban–MalayanIbanic
Iban
Keninjal ?
Mualang
Remun
Seberuang
Malay
Malaysian
Indonesian
Minangkabau
Brunei/Kedayan Malay
Bamayo
Banjar
Berau Malay
Bangka Malay
Bengkulu
Col
Duanoʼ
Haji
Jambi Malay
Jakun
Kedah Malay
Kendayan / Selako ?
Kutai Malay
Kaur
Kerinci
Kelantan-Pattani Malay
Kubu
Orang Laut
Lubu
Musi
Negeri Sembilan Malay
Orang Kanaq
Orang Seletar
Pahang Malay
Pekal
Perak Malay
Pontianak Malay
Reman Malay
Sarawak Malay
Temuan
Terengganu Malay
Urak Lawoi'
Sundanese
Sundanese
Old Sundanese †
Baduy
Bantenese
Cirebonese
Rejang ?
Rejang
Moklenic ?
Moken
Moklen
Sumatran *Northwest Sumatra–Barrier Islands
Enggano ?
Gayo
Mentawai
Nias
Sikule
Simeulue
Batak
Alas
Angkola
Dairi
Karo
Simalungun
Toba
Mandailing
Nasal ?
Lampungic
Lampung
Lampung Nyo
Lampung Api
Komering
Javanese
Javanese
Kawi / Old Javanese †
Banyumasan
Osing
Tenggerese
Madurese
Madurese
Kangean
Bali–Sasak–Sumbawa
Balinese
Sasak
Sumbawa
CelebicBungku–Tolaki
Bahonsuai
Bungku
Kodeoha
Kulisusu
Moronene
Mori Bawah
Mori Atas
Padoe
Rahambuu
Tolaki
Tomadino
Waru
Wawonii
Muna–Buton
Bonerate
Busoa
Cia-Cia
Kaimbulawa
Kumbewaha
Lasalimu
Liabuku
Muna
Pancana
Tukang Besi
Saluan–Banggai
Andio
Balantak
Banggai
Batui
Bobongko
Saluan
Tomini–Tolitoli *
Balaesang
Boano ?
Dampelas
Dondo
Lauje
Pendau
Taje
Tajio
Tomini
Totoli ?
Kaili–Wolio *Kaili–Pamona
Kaili
Mbelala
Moma
Pamona
Rampi
Sarudu
Sedoa
Topoiyo
Uma
Wotu–Wolio
Kalao
Kamaru
Laiyolo
Ledo Kaili *
Wolio
Wotu
South SulawesiBugis
Buginese
Campalagian
Embaloh ?
Taman
Makassaric
Makassarese
Bentong
Coastal Konjo
Highland Konjo
Selayar
Seko–Badaic *Seko
Budong-Budong
Panasuan
Seko Padang
Seko Tengah
Badaic *
Bada
Behoa
Napu
Northern
Mamuju
Mandar
Massenrempulu
Duri
Enrekang
Maiwa
Malimpung
Pitu Ulunna Salu
Aralle-Tabulahan
Bambam
Dakka
Pannei
Ulumandaʼ
Toraja
Kalumpang
Mamasa
Pattae'
Lawa
Talondoʼ ?
Toraja-Saʼdan
Lemolang
Isolates
Chamorro
Palauan
Central Malayo-Polynesian languagesBima
Bima
Sumba–FloresSumba–HawuSavu
Hawu
Dhao
Sumba
Kambera
Mamboru
Anakalangu
Wanukaka
Pondok
Baliledo
Wejewa
Lamboya
Kodi
Gaura
Western Flores
Komodo
Manggarai
Riung
Rembong
Rajong
Kepoʼ
Wae Rana
Palu'e
Ende
Lio
Nagé-Kéo
Ngadha
Rongga
Soʼa
Flores–Lembata
Sika
Kedang
Lamaholot
Lamaholot
Alorese
Lamatuka
Lewo Eleng
Levuka
South Lembata
Lamalera
Lewotobi
Adonara
Ile Ape
Mingar
Selaru
Selaru
Seluwasan
Kei–Tanimbar ?
Kei
Fordata
Yamdena
Onin
Sekar
Uruangnirin
Aru
Barakai
Batuley
Dobel
Karey
Koba
Kola
Lola
Lorang
Manombai
Mariri
Tarangan
Ujir
Timoric *
Helong
Tetum
Uab Meto
Amarasi
Central Timor *
Kemak
Tukudede
Mambai
Bekais
Wetar–Galoli ?
Wetar
Galoli
Kawaimina
Kairui
Waimoa
Midiki
Naueti ?
Habun ?
Luangic–Kisaric ?
Romang
Kisar
Leti
Luang
Makuva
Rote–Meto *
Bilba
Dengka
Lole
Ringgou
Dela-Oenale
Termanu
Tii
Babar
Idalaka
West Damar
Dawera-Daweloor
North Babar
Dai
Masela
Serili
Southeast Babar
Emplawas
Imroing
Telaʼa
Southwest Maluku
East Damar
Teun
Nila
Serua
Kowiai ?
Kowiai
Central Maluku *
Teor-Kur
West
Ambelau
Buru
Lisela
Hukumina †
Moksela †
Sula
Mangole
Taliabo
East
Banda
Bati
Geser
Watubela
Bobot
Masiwang
Hoti †
Benggoi
Salas
Liana
Nunusaku
Kayeli †
Nuaulu
Huaulu
Manusela
Wemale
Yalahatan
Piru Bay ?
Asilulu
Luhu
Manipa
Wakasihu
Boano
Sepa-Teluti
Paulohi
Kaibobo
Hitu
Tulehu
Laha
Seit-Kaitetu
Kamarian †
Haruku
Amahai
Nusa Laut
Saparua
Latu
Eastern Malayo-Polynesian languagesSHWNG
Tandia †
Mor
Waropen
Warembori ?
Yoke ?
Halmahera SeaAmbel–Biga
Ambel
Biga
Maya–Matbat
Ma'ya
Matbat
Maden
Maden
Fiawat
As
As
South Halmahera
Gane
Taba
Buli
Maba
Patani
Sawai
Gebe
CenderawasihBiakic
Biak
Dusner †
Meoswar
Roon
Yapen
Ambai
Ansus
Marau
Wamesa
Wooi
Munggui
Papuma
Pom
Serui-Laut
Kurudu
Wabo
Southwest
Yaur
Yerisiam
Umar
OceanicAdmiralty
Yapese ?
Eastern
Manus
Baluan-Pam
Lenkau
Lou
Nauna
Penchal
Western
Northern Kaniet †
Southern Kaniet †
Seimat
Wuvulu
Aua
Saint Matthias
Mussau-Emira
Tenis
TemotuUtupua
Amba
Asumboa
Tanimbili
Vanikoro
Teanu
Lovono
Tanema
Reefs–Santa Cruz
Äiwoo
Engdewu / Nanggu
Natügu / Santa Cruz
Nalögo
Noipx
SoutheastSolomonicGela–Guadalcanal
Bugotu
Gela
Lengo
Birao
Ghari
Malango
Talise
Malaita–San Cristobal
Longgu
Sa'a
Arosi
Fagani
Bauro
Kahua
Owa
Marau Wawa ? †
Toʼabaita
Baelelea
Baeggu
Fataleka
Lau
Kwara'ae
Wala
Gula'alaa
Kwaio
Dori'o
ꞋAreꞌare
Oroha
WesternOceanicMeso–MelanesianWillaumez
Bola
Bulu
Meramera
Nakanai
Bali-Vitu
Bali
Vitu
New Ireland–NorthwestSolomonicTungag–Nalik
Kara
Laxudumau
Nalik
Tiang
Tigak
Tungag
Tabar
Lihir
Madara
Notsi
Madak
Barok
Lavatbura–Lamusong
Madak
St. George
Bilur
Fanamaket
Guramalum †
Kandas
Konomala
Label
Lungalunga
Niwer Mil
Patpatar
Ramoaaina
Siar
Sursurunga
Tangga
Tolai
NorthwestSolomonic
Babatana
Bannoni
Blablanga
Cheke Holo
Gao
Ghanongga
Hahon
Hakö
Halia
Hoava
Kazukuru †
Kokota
Kusaghe
Laghu †
Lungga
Marovo
Mono-Alu
Nduke
Nehan
Papapana
Petats
Piva
Ririo
Roviana
Saposa
Simbo
Solos
Teop
Tinputz
Torau
Ughele
Uruava †
Vaghua
Vangunu
Varisi
Zabana
Zazao
Tomoip
NorthNew GuineaSarmi–Jayapura ?
Anus
Bonggo
Kayupulau
Liki
Masimasi
Ormu
Podena
Kaptiau
Sobei
Tarpia
Tobati
Wakde
Yamna
Schouten
Arop-Sissano
Sera
Sissano
Ulau-Suain
Tumleo
Yakamul
Kaiep
Kairiru
Terebu
Biem
Kis
Manam
Medebur
Sepa
Wogeo
Huon Gulf
Bukawa
Kela
Yabem
Aribwatsa †
Aribwaung
Adzera
Dangal
Duwet
Labu
Maralango
Mari
Musom
Nafi
Silisili
Wampar
Wampur
Hote
Iwal
Kapin
Kumalu
Mangga Buang
Mapos Buang
Mumeng
Piu
Vehes
Yamap
Numbami
Ngero–Vitiaz
Bariai
Gitua
Kove
Lusi
Malalamai
Mutu
Awad Bing
Bilibil
Gedaged
Marik
Matukar
Mindiri
Takia
Wab
Lamogai
Mouk-Aria
Aigon
Karore
Kaulong †
Miu
Sengseng
Aiklep
Akolet
Apalik
Avau
Bebeli
Gimi
Lesing-Gelimi
Mangseng
Solong
Lote
Mamusi
Mengen
Arop-Lukep
Karnai
Malasanga
Mur Pano
Mato
Ronji
Amara
Maleu
Mbula
Sio
Tami
Papuan TipNuclear
ʼAuhelawa
Buhutu
Bwanabwana
Oya'oya
Saliba
Suau
Unubahe
Wagawaga
Bwaidoka
Diodio
Iamalele
Iduna
Koluwawa
Maiadomu
Bunama
Boselewa
Dobu
Duau
Galeya
Molima
Mwatebu
Sewa Bay
Dawawa
Kakabai
Are
Arifama-Miniafia
Doga
Gapapaiwa
Ghayavi
Kaninuwa
Ubir
Gweda
Haigwai
Maiwala
Minaveha
Taupota
Tawala
Yakaikeke
Anuki
Gumawana
Kilivila–Misima
Budibud
Kilivila
Misima
Muyuw
Nimoa–Sudest
Nimoa
Sudest
SouthernOceanicNorthVanuatuTorres–Banks
Dorig
Hiw
Koro
Lakon
Lehali
Lemerig
Lo-Toga
Löyöp
Mota
Mwerlap
Mwesen
Mwotlap
Nume
Olrat
Vera’a
Volow
Vurës
Maewo–Ambae–North Pentecost
Baetora
Duidui
Northeast Ambae
Raga
Sun̄wadaga
Sun̄wadia
South Pentecost
Apma
Sa
Ske
Sowa †
Espiritu Santo
Akei
Aore †
Araki
Cape Cumberland
Nokuku
Kiai
M̈av̈ea
Merei-Tiale
Mores
Sakao
Shark Bay
Tamambo
Tangoa
Tasiriki
Tolomako
Tutuba
Wusi
NuclearSouthernOceanicCentral Vanuatu
North Efate
Nafsan
Efatese
Eton
Lelepa
Makura
Daakaka
Dalkalaen
Lonwolwol
Paamese
Port Vato
Southeast Ambrym
Epi
Baki
Bierebo
Bieria
Lamen
Lewo
Maii
Malakula
Aulua
Avava
Aveteian
Axamb
Big Nambas
Botovro
Burmbar
Bwenelang
Larëvat
Lendamboi
Litzlitz
Malfaxal
Malua Bay
Maskelynes
Nahavaq
Nasarian
Nasvang
Nāti
Navwien
Nese
Neve'ei
Neverver
Ninde
Nisvai
Nitita
Port Sandwich
Rerep
Sörsörian
Tape
Tirax
Unua
Northeast Malakula
Vao
Vivti
Rutan
Alovas
Najit
Njav
South VanuatuErromango
Erromanga / Sie
Sorung †
Ura
Utaha / Ifo †
Tanna
Kwamera / South Tanna
Lenakel / West Tanna
North Tanna
Southwest Tanna
Whitesands / East Tanna
Aneityum
Loyalties–New CaledoniaLoyalty Islands
Drehu
Iaai
Nengone
New CaledonianSouthern
Ajië
Arhâ
Arhö
Ndrumbea
Neku
Numèè
Orowe
Tîrî
Xârâcùù
Xârâgurè
Zire †
Northern
Bwatoo
Caac
Cèmuhî
Fwâi
Haeke
Haveke
Hmwaveke
Jawe
Kumak
Nemi
Nyâlayu
Paicî
Pije
Pwaamei
Pwapwâ
Vamale
Waamwang †
Yuanga
Micronesian
Nauruan
NuclearMicronesian
Gilbertese
Kosraean
Marshallese
Chuukic–PohnpeicChuukic
Carolinian
Chuukese
Mapia †
Mortlockese
Namonuito
Pááfang
Puluwatese
Satawalese
Sonsorol
Tanapag
Tobian
Ulithian
Woleaian
Pohnpeic
Mokilese
Ngatikese
Pingelapese
Pohnpeian
CentralPacificWest
Namosi-Naitasiri-Serua
Rotuman
Western Fijian
East
Fijian
Gone Dau
Lauan
Lomaiviti
PolynesianNuclearPolynesian
Kapingamarangi
Nuguria
Nukumanu
Nukuoro
Ontong Java
Sikaiana
Takuu
Tuvaluan
Samoic
Niuatoputapu †
Samoan
Tokelauan
Eastern
Austral
Cook Islands Māori
Hawaiian
Mangareva
Māori
Moriori †
Marquesan
Penrhyn
Rakahanga-Manihiki
Rapa
Rapa Nui
Tahitian
Tuamotuan
Futunic
Anuta
Emae
Futuna-Aniwa / West Futunan
Futunan / East Futunan
Mele-Fila
Pukapukan
Rennellese
Tikopia
Wallisian / East Uvean
West Uvean
Tongic
Niuafoʻou ?
Niuean
Tongan
* indicates proposed status ? indicates classification dispute† indicates extinct status
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Indonesian_language&oldid=1172640827"
Categories: Indonesian languageAgglutinative languagesLanguages of IndonesiaLanguages of East TimorStandard languagesSubject–verb–object languagesLanguages of the NetherlandsMalayic languagesHidden categories: Articles containing Indonesian-language textCS1 Indonesian-language sources (id)Webarchive template archiveis linksPages with login required references or sourcesWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from March 2019Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeISO language articles citing sources other than EthnologueWikipedia articles needing clarification from April 2022Articles containing Javanese-language textArticles containing Malay (macrolanguage)-language textAll articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from August 2021Articles containing traditional Chinese-language textAll articles with incomplete citationsArticles with incomplete citations from June 2018Pages using multiple image with auto scaled imagesArticles containing Arabic-language textArticles containing Portuguese-language textArticles containing Dutch-language textArticles containing explicitly cited English-language textArticles containing Japanese-language textArticles containing Greek-language textArticles containing Standard Malay-language textWikipedia articles in need of updating from July 2022All Wikipedia articles in need of updatingCommons category link from WikidataArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles containing video clips
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 10:33 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width