Great Russian chauvinism - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Definition
2Usage
3See also
4References
5External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Great Russian chauvinism
8 languages
FrançaisՀայերենOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаPortuguêsРусскийСрпски / srpskiУкраїнська中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Ideology
Great Russian chauvinism (Russian: Великорусский шовинизм) is a term defined by the early Soviet government officials, most notably Vladimir Lenin, to describe an ideology of the "dominant exploiting classes of the nation, holding a dominant (sovereign) position in the state, declaring their nation as the "superior" nation". Lenin promoted an idea for the Bolshevik party to defend the right of oppressed nations within the former Russian Empire to self-determination and equality as well as the language-rights movement of the newly-formed republics.
Definition[edit]
According to Bolshevik vocabulary, the Great-Russian chauvinism is a part of more common Great-Power chauvinism or chauvinism in general. As the Great Soviet Encyclopedia (GSE) says, Great-Power chauvinism is an ideology of the "dominant exploiting classes of the nation, holding a dominant (sovereign) position in the state, declaring their nation as the "superior" nation". The GSE defines chauvinism as an extreme form of nationalism and acknowledges the existence of great-national chauvinism in the Russian Empire as well as other countries across the globe.
Usage of the word "Great" there traces back to the triune nation concept which was dominating during the imperial era. Modern Russians were referred to as "Great Russians", while Ukrainians were named "Little Russians", resembling traditional historical and geographical division of the country's core (compare Greater and Lesser Poland).
Usage[edit]
Following the October Revolution, in September, 1922 Lenin wrote a letter to the Politburo stating, "we consider ourselves, the Ukrainian SSR, and others equal and enter with them on an equal basis into a new union, a new federation, the Union of the Soviet Republics of Europe and Asia".[1] Lenin also promoted an idea for the Bolshevik party to defend the right of oppressed nations within the former Russian Empire to self-determination and equality as well as the language-rights movement of the newly-formed republics.[1]
Moreover, in December 1922 Lenin in his letter "What practical measures must be taken in the present situation?" wrote, "...Thirdly, exemplary punishment must be inflicted on Comrade Ordzhonikidze (I say this all the more regretfully as I am one of his personal friends and have worked with him abroad) and the investigation of all the material which Dzerzhinsky's commission has collected must be completed or started over again to correct the enormous mass of wrongs and biased judgments which it doubtlessly contains. The political responsibility for all this truly Great-Russian nationalist campaign must, of course, be laid on Stalin and Dzerzhinsky."[2]
Republics of the Soviet Union in 1954–1991
At the 12th Congress of the RCP(b) Nikolay Bukharin stated: “We, [ethnic Russians] as a former great-power nation, must put ourselves in an unequal position. Only with such a policy, when we artificially put ourselves in a position lower than others, only at this price can we buy the trust of formerly oppressed nations."[3]
In all of Stalin's speeches on the national question at party congresses (from the 10th to the 16th), the Great-Russian chauvinism was declared the main danger to the Soviet state. But over time, yielding to the requirements of the newly created super-centralized structures of the Union government, the thesis was forgotten and the indigenous languages were relegated to the background, while Russian became the single language of office.
Some historians evaluating the Soviet Union as a colonial empire, applied the "prison of nations" idea to the USSR. Thomas Winderl wrote "The USSR became in a certain sense more a prison-house of nations than the old Empire had ever been."[4]
Russian president Vladimir Putin, speaking on 18 June 2004 at the international conference "Eurasian Integration: Trends of Modern Development and Challenges of Globalization", said about the problems hindering integration: "I would say that these problems can be formulated very simply. This is great-power chauvinism, this is nationalism, this is the personal ambitions of those on whom political decisions depend, and, finally, this is just stupidity, ordinary cavemen's stupidity".[5]
Putin's address to the nation on 24 February 2022. Minutes after Putin's announcement, the Russian invasion of Ukraine began.
From around 2014, the Putin regime in Russia embraced Great Russian chauvinism.[6][7] In July 2021, Putin published an essay titled On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians, in which he states that Belarusians, Ukrainians and Russians should be in one All-Russian nation as a part of the Russian world and are "one people" whom "forces that have always sought to undermine our unity" wanted to "divide and rule".[8]
In a speech on 21 February 2022, following the escalation in the 2021–2022 Russo-Ukrainian crisis,[9] Putin made a number of claims about Ukrainian and Soviet history, including stating that modern Ukraine was created by the Bolsheviks in 1917 as part of a communist appeasement of nationalism of ethnic minorities in the former Russian Empire, specifically blaming Vladimir Lenin for "detaching Ukraine from Russia".[10] Putin spoke of the "historic, strategic mistakes" that were made when in 1991 the USSR "granted sovereignty" to other Soviet republics on "historically Russian land" and called the entire episode "truly fatal".[11] He described Ukraine as being turned into the "anti-Russia" by the West.[12] On 24 February, Putin in a televised address announced a "special military operation" in Ukraine,[13] launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine.[14]
See also[edit]
Antisemitism in the Soviet Union
Forced settlements in the Soviet Union
Korenizatsiya
Gulag
Katorga
Penal transportation
National delimitation in the Soviet Union
Bourgeois nationalism
Soviet patriotism
Prison of the peoples
Population transfer in the Soviet Union
References[edit]
^ a b "Lenin: 'I declare war to death on Great Russian chauvinism'". The Militant (themilitant.com). 24 December 2018.
^ Lenin, Vladimir (1922). "The Question of Nationalities or "Autonomisation"". Marxist Internet Archive.
^ Vasiltsov, S.; Obukhov, S. "Русский вопрос и коммунисты России" [Russian question and the communists of Russia] (in Russian). Archived from the original on 12 August 2007. Retrieved 19 April 2016.
^ Bekus, Nelly (2010-01-01). Struggle Over Identity: The Official and the Alternative "Belarusianness". Central European University Press. p. 42. ISBN 978-963-9776-68-5.
^ "Putin: Obstacles for integration are great-power chauvinism, personal ambitions of some politicians and just stupidity". Archived from the original on 14 December 2007. Retrieved 10 May 2007.
^ Simpson, Jeffrey (5 March 2014). "The return of Great Russian chauvinism". The Globe and Mail.
^ Kessler, Mario (26 February 2022). "Putin's Anti-Bolshevik Fantasies Could Be His Downfall". Jacobin. Retrieved 11 March 2022.
^ Putin, Vladimir (12 July 2021). "Article by Vladimir Putin 'On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians'". The Kremlin. Government of Russia. Archived from the original on 25 January 2022.
^ "Putin orders troops into eastern Ukraine on 'peacekeeping duties'". The Guardian. 2022-02-21. Archived from the original on 2022-02-23.
^ Gotev, Georgi (22 February 2022). "Putin's world: Selected quotes from a disturbing speech –". Euractiv.com.
^ JOFFRE, TZVI (9 June 2022). "Russian parliament questions Lithuania's independence with new bill".
^ "What the West Will Never Understand About Putin's Ukraine Obsession". Time. 22 January 2022.
^ "Full text: Putin's declaration of war on Ukraine". The Spectator. 24 February 2022.
^ "Russia launches massive invasion of Ukraine — live updates". Deutsche Welle. 24 February 2022.
External links[edit]
Great-Power chauvinism at the Great Soviet Encyclopedia
Chauvinism at the Great Soviet Encyclopedia
Vladimir Lenin. On the National Pride of the Great Russians. Marxists.org.
vteRussian nationalismHistoryExpansionism,imperialism andRussification
1500–1800
Siberia
Khanate of Sibir
Central Asia
North America
Partitions of Poland
Crimea, 1783
Amur
Military occupations
Crimea, 2014
Slavophilia and westernism
Pochvennichestvo
Black Hundreds
Mladorossi
Galician Russophilia
White movement
Smenovekhovtsy
Solidarists
Russian Liberation Movement
1993 constitutional crisis
National Salvation Front
Russian marches
2010 Manezhnaya Square riots [ru]
2013 Biryulyovo riots
2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine
Russian invasion of UkraineConcepts
All-Russian nation
Collector of Russian lands
Emperor of all the Russias
Eurasia
Gayrope
Holy Rus
Moscow, third Rome
Of all Rus' [Wikidata]
Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Nationality
Russia for Russians
Russian civilization
Russian Idea
Russian irredentism
Russian-occupied territories
Krymnash
Russian soul
"Russian world"
Russophilia and Russophobia
United and Indivisible Russia [ru; uk]
Ideologies
Eurasianism
National Bolshevism
Neo-Sovietism
Neo-Stalinism
Pan-Slavism
Putinism
Ruscism
Soviet patriotism
Modern organizationsActive
Atomwaffen Division Russland
Club of Angry Patriots
Angry patriots
Donetsk Republic
Essence of Time
Ethnic National Union
Eurasia Movement
Eurasia Party
Eurasian Youth Union
Free Donbas
Great Russia
Liberal Democratic Party of Russia
Lithuanian People's Party
National Socialism / White Power
Obnovlenie
The Other Russia of E. V. Limonov
Popular Resistance Association
Right Bloc
Rodina
Russian All-People's Union
Russian Imperial Movement
Russians
Serbian Party Oathkeepers
Union of Orthodox Banner-Bearers
United Russia
Young Guard of United Russia
Defunct
Artpodgotovka
Combat Terrorist Organization
Congress of Russian Communities
Format18
Male State
Movement Against Illegal Immigration
Nation and Freedom Committee
National Bolshevik Party
National Russian Liberation Movement
National Socialist Society
Northern Brotherhood
Pamyat
People's National Party
Russian All-National Union
Russian National Socialist Party
Russian National Union
Russian National Unity
New Russian National Unity
The Savior
Slavic Union
Union of the Russian People
PersonalitiesAfter 1991
Viktor Alksnis
Sergey Baburin
Alexander Barkashov
Alexander Belov-Potkin
Dmitry Demushkin
Aleksandr Dugin
Dmitry Galkovsky
Aleksandr Ivanov-Sukharevsky
Konstantin Kasimovsky
Yegor Kholmogorov [Wikidata]
Konstantin Krylov
Vladimir Kvachkov
Alexander Lebed
Eduard Limonov
Vyacheslav Maltsev
Maxim Martsinkevich
Zakhar Prilepin
Vladimir Putin
Dmitry Rogozin
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
Igor Shafarevich
Dmitri Vasilyev
Vladimir Zhirinovsky
Gennady Zyuganov
Before 1991
Ivan Ilyin
Pyotr Krasnov
Konstantin Rodzaevsky
Mikhail Skobelev
Ivan Solonevich
Vasily Shulgin
Media
Fashist
The Fourth Political Theory
Foundations of Geopolitics
History: Fiction or Science?
The Last Will of a Russian Fascist
Nash Put'
"On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians"
"Rebuilding Russia [ru]"
Sputnik and Pogrom
"What Russia Should Do with Ukraine"
Opposition and criticism
Great Russian chauvinism
Iazychie
Nashism
Ruscism
Prison of peoples
Pobedobesie
Vatnik
Volos Declaration
 Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Great_Russian_chauvinism&oldid=1169628741"
Categories: ChauvinismRussian nationalismSoviet phraseologyHidden categories: CS1 Russian-language sources (ru)Articles with short descriptionShort description with empty Wikidata descriptionArticles containing Russian-language text
 This page was last edited on 10 August 2023, at 07:59 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width