Wikimedia Foundation Legal department - Meta
Wikimedia Foundation Legal department
From Meta, a Wikimedia project coordination wiki
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Translate this pageOther languages:Deutsch
English
Türkçe
català
dansk
español
français
italiano
lietuvių
magyar
occitan
português
português do Brasil
suomi
vèneto
Ελληνικά
русский
українська
العربية
پښتو
नेपाली
हिन्दी
বাংলা
తెలుగు
ไทย
中文
日本語
Wikimedia Foundation staff and contractors participate with the volunteer community in maintaining this page's content.
Shortcut: LCA
Contents
1 The Legal Team
2 Community Resilience & Sustainability
3 Wikimedia Foundation Email Contacts
4 WMF Board Resolutions
5 Policies
6 Non-Free Content
7 Updates from Legal
8 Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") Compliance
9 Registered Legal Agent
9.1 IRC chat logs
9.2 Legal discussions
Legal is the name of a Wikimedia Foundation  staff department. The Legal Department is represented by Stephen LaPorte, General Counsel. It includes the Legal Team and Community Resilience & Sustainability.
The Legal Team
Wikipedia and many other Wikimedia projects are hosted and operated by the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) corporation. The Legal Team, serving under General Counsel Stephen LaPorte, oversee all legal matters for the Foundation and focus on key initiatives to help support the community consistent with our Foundation goals and values. We deal with a wide range of issues and projects, including policy drafting, trademark and copyright law, international law, employment law, litigation, fundraising and grant law, domestic and international contracts, privacy law, ethics, internet law, and non-profit corporate governance.
Note: For legal ethical reasons we unfortunately can only represent the Wikimedia Foundation and cannot be the attorney for the community or movement organizations, though the legal team often provides strong support to the community in many ways consistent with Wikimedia Foundation goals.
Community Resilience & Sustainability
Community Resilience and Sustainability is a wing of the Wikimedia Foundation's Legal department, led by the Vice President of Community Resilience & Sustainability Maggie Dennis. It currently consists of Trust and Safety, Community Development, Human Rights, and Movement Strategy and Governance.
Wikimedia Foundation Email Contacts
Email
Description
legal@wikimedia.org
For third-party legal issues and threats.
trademarks@wikimedia.org
For trademark permissions and licensing questions.
legal-tm-vio@wikimedia.org
For reporting trademark violations.
emergency@wikimedia.org
For threats of violence against persons and property (including suicide threats and terroristic threats).
legal-reports@wikimedia.org
For reports of illegal content concerning minors.
check-disclosure@wikimedia.org
For reporting disclosures of nonpublic information to outside parties.
answers@wikimedia.org
For general issues for the Wikimedia Foundation and its staff.
info@wikimedia.org
For general issues related to content on or using Wikipedia and other projects.
Disclaimer: Emails to info@wikimedia.org are reviewed and responded to by volunteers from our user community. Please understand that the Wikimedia Foundation cannot guarantee confidential treatment of any sensitive information you include in your message.
WMF Board Resolutions
For a complete list of resolutions by the WMF Board of Trustees, see here.
Policies
Policy
Description
Terms of Use
This document informs readers and users of what WMF provides through its various projects, and the rights and responsibilities that are involved.
Privacy Policy
This policy governs WMF’s handling of personally identifiable information collected by WMF on its servers in relation to the projects and their communities.
Donor Privacy Policy
This policy guides the handling of WMF donors' personal information.
Legal Policies
These are the policies that guide the Office of the General Counsel at the Wikimedia Foundation, addressing a wide range of topics, including applicable law, responsibility for edits, DMCA takedowns, trade secrets, child pornography, fair use, harassment, subpoenas, and trademark licensing.
DMCA Policy
This document lays out the official WMF policy for dealing with reports of copyright infringement for content hosted on WMF servers as required under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA).
TVEC Procedures and Guidelines
This document lays out the official WMF procedures and guidelines for addressing Law Enforcement orders on TVEC content. See FAQ on Countering Terrorist and Violent Extremist Content on Wikimedia Projects for more information.
Legal Fees Assistance Program
This policy outlines the scope of the Legal Fees Assistance Program, which is intended to assist qualifying Wikimedia community members who donate time and effort to any Wikimedia site or project in a support role.
Office Actions Policy
This policy governs official changes made to content done under the authority of the Wikimedia Foundation, by members of the Foundation's office. These are removals of questionable or illegal Wikimedia content following complaints.
Trademark Policy
This document outlines WMF's policy regarding the use of the WMF trademarks.
Visual Identity Guidelines
These guidelines contain specific requirements and restrictions regarding how WMF marks may be displayed.
Guidelines on Potential Conflicts of Interest
These guidelines are to be considered by anyone requesting resources belonging to the Wikimedia movement, and are intended to encourage the full disclosure of personal and financial interests that may be in conflict with such requests.
Policy and Political Association Guidelines
This is an internal guideline that clarifies when and how WMF associates itself publicly on policy and political issues.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy
This policy prohibits WMF and its employees, contractors and others acting on behalf of WMF from making unlawful corrupt payments or bribes to U.S. or foreign officials.
Conflict of interest guide for Wikimedia movement organizations
This guide provides movement organizations with a guide on how to identify and manage conflicts of interests within their organization.
For a more complete list of WMF policies, see the Policies page.
Non-Free Content
For local policies on the status of non-free content on Wikimedia projects, see the non-free content page.
Updates from Legal
Below are some spaces that Legal may update with announcements or preliminary discussions on legal issues.
Subscribe to the Wikimedia Public Policy mailing list for updates on legal actions, as well as other legal and public policy discussions.
Wikimedia Blog posts categorized under "Legal" deliver important announcements to the community on new Legal initiatives, legal rulings involving Wikimedians around the world, and other legal or governance issues that may be of interest to the Wikimedia community.
Wikilegal includes preliminary ideas and research notes on potential legal issues that may be relevant to the Wikimedia community’s mission to share free knowledge. Wikilegal is a stub to encourage community input and improvements.
Quarterly review documentation: October 2016
Brand Stewardship Report July 2022
Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") Compliance
In addition to the DMCA Policy, please refer to § 8 of the Wikimedia Terms of Use, which states:
The Wikimedia Foundation wants to ensure that the content that we host can be re-used by other users without fear of liability and that it is not infringing the proprietary rights of others. In fairness to our users, as well as to other creators and copyright holders, our policy is to respond to notices of alleged infringement that comply with the formalities of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). Pursuant to the DMCA, we will terminate, in appropriate circumstances, users and account holders of our system and network who are repeat infringers.
However, we also recognize that not every takedown notice is valid or in good faith. In such cases, we strongly encourage users to file counter-notifications when they appropriately believe a DMCA takedown demand is invalid or improper. For more information on what to do if you think a DMCA notice has been improperly filed, you may wish to consult the Chilling Effects website.
If you are the owner of content that is being improperly used on one of the Projects without your permission, you may request that the content be removed under the DMCA. To make such a request, please email us at legalwikimedia.org or snail mail our designated agent at this address.
Alternatively, you may make a request to our community, which often handles copyright issues faster and more effectively than prescribed under the DMCA. In that case, you can post a notice explaining your copyright concerns. For a non-exhaustive and non-authoritative list of the relevant processes for the different Project editions, look here. Before filing a DMCA claim, you also have the option of sending an email to the community at infowikimedia.org.
Registered Legal Agent
Wikimedia Foundation
c/o CT Corporation System
330 N Brand Blvd.
Glendale, CA 91203-2336
Archive
IRC chat logs
2013-01-22
2011-12-15
2011-12-01
Legal discussions
Loriot Signature case in German court
Naming of new Wikimedia movement entities
Blog post inviting community discussion for naming of movement entities
"Thoughts regarding the naming of thematic organizations"
"Additional thoughts in the naming of thematic organizations and user groups"
vteWikimedia Foundation departments
Office of the Chief Executive Officer
Advancement
Communications
Finance and Administration
Legal
Product
Talent and Culture
Technology
Staff and contractors
vteLegalGeneral Counsel: Stephen LaPorte(Aeryn Palmer • Katie Francis • Rachel Stallman • Amy Vossbrinck)Counsel
James Buatti
Jan Gerlach
Leighanna Mixter
Jacob Rogers
Chuck Roslof
Legal interns and fellows
Tiffany Chen
Allison Davenport
Purrrrrcy
Community Resilience and Sustainability
Maggie Dennis
Trust and Safety
Jan Eissfeldt
Operations
Policy
Community Development
Asaf Bartov
Simona Ramkisson
Beverly Jiang
Rebecca Maung
Cassie Casares
Movement Strategy and Governance
Quim Gil
Keegan Peterzell
Kaarel Vaidla
Abbad Diraneyya
Mervat Salman
Zita Ursula Zage
Ramzy Muliawan
Mahuton Possoupe
Tila Cappelletto
Staff and contractors § Legal
Retrieved from "https://meta.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikimedia_Foundation_Legal_department&oldid=25439046"
Categories: LegalWikimedia resources for contributorsWikimedia resources for affiliate organizersWikimedia Foundation departmentsLegal departmentHidden category: Maintained by the Wikimedia Foundation
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Content pageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadView sourceView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageWikimedia NewsTranslationsRecent changesRandom pageHelpBabel
Community
Wikimedia Resource CenterWikimedia ForumMailing listsRequestsBabylonReportsResearchPlanet Wikimedia
Beyond the Web
Meet WikimediansEventsMovement affiliatesDonate
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this page
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other languages
Add links
 This page was last edited on 11 August 2023, at 00:36.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Privacy policy
About Meta
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement