Ido - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Digital era
1.2Changes
2Phonology
3Orthography
4Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
4.1Syntax
4.2Pronouns
4.3Table of correlatives
4.4Compound formation
5Vocabulary
6Sample
7Literature and publications
8Symbols of Ido
9International Ido conventions
10See also
11References
12External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Ido
121 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuAymar aruAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)Bikol CentralБългарскиCatalàCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDagbanliDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEmiliàn e rumagnòlEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskFulfuldeGaeilgeGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HausaՀայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaInterlingueÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliКомиKotavaKreyòl ayisyenKurdîLadinoLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaMagyarМакедонскиMaltiमराठीمازِرونیBahasa MelayuMirandésNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNovialOccitanਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPapiamentuPicardPiemontèisTok PisinPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRomani čhibRumantschRuna SimiРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishSiSwatiSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVènetoTiếng ViệtVolapük吴语粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikiversity
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Ido language)
Constructed international auxiliary language
This article is about the language. For other uses, see Ido (disambiguation).
Not to be confused with Edo language.
IdoIdoPronunciationIPA: [ˈido]Created byDelegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary LanguageDate1907Setting and usageInternational auxiliary languageUsers100–200 (2000)[1]PurposeConstructed language
International auxiliary languageProto-EsperantoEsperantoEsperantidoIdoWriting systemLatin scriptSourcesbased on Esperanto 1894Official statusRegulated byUniono por la Linguo Internaciona IdoLanguage codesISO 639-1ioISO 639-2idoISO 639-3idoGlottologidoo1234Linguasphere51-AAB-dbThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Ido flag Ido
Language
Grammar
Phonology
Union
vs. Esperanto
vs. Interlingua
vs. Novial
HistoryBeaufront
Couturat
Jespersen
Delegation for the Adoption of anInternational Auxiliary Language
Related
Auxiliary language
Constructed language
Esperanto
Esperantido
Adjuvilo
Wikimedia
Wikipedio
Wikivortaro
vte
Ido (/ˈiːdoʊ/) is a constructed language derived from Reformed Esperanto, and similarly designed with the goal of being a universal second language for people of diverse backgrounds. To function as an effective international auxiliary language, Ido was specifically designed to be grammatically, orthographically, and lexicographically regular (and, above all, easy to learn and use). It is the most successful of the many Esperanto derivatives, called Esperantidoj.
Ido was created in 1907 out of a desire to reform perceived flaws in Esperanto, a language that had been created 20 years earlier to facilitate international communication. The name of the language traces its origin to the Esperanto word ido, meaning "offspring",[2] since the language is a "descendant" of Esperanto. After its inception, Ido gained support from some in the Esperanto community. A setback occurred with the sudden death in 1914 of one of its most influential proponents, Louis Couturat. In 1928, leader Otto Jespersen left the movement for his own language Novial. There were two reasons for why  Ido declined in popularity: first, the emergence of further schisms arising from competing reform projects; and second, a general lack of awareness of Ido as a candidate for an international language. These obstacles weakened the movement and it was not until the rise of the Internet that it began to regain momentum.
Ido uses the same 26 letters as the English (Latin) alphabet, with no diacritics. It draws its vocabulary from English, French, German, Italian, Latin, Russian, Spanish and Portuguese, and is largely intelligible to those who have studied Esperanto.
Several works of literature have been translated into Ido,[3] including The Little Prince,[4] the Book of Psalms, and the Gospel of Luke.[5] As of the year 2000, there were approximately 100–200 Ido speakers in the world.[1] In 2020, Ido had 24 native speakers in Finland.[6][citation needed]
History[edit]
The idea of a universal second language is not new, and constructed languages are not a recent phenomenon. The first known constructed language was Hildegard of Bingen's Lingua Ignota, created in the 12th century. The concept did not attract significant interest until the language Volapük was created in 1879. Volapük was popular for some time and apparently had a few thousand users, but was later eclipsed by the popularity of Esperanto, which arose in 1887. Several other languages, such as Latino sine Flexione and Idiom Neutral were also put forward. It was during this time that French mathematician Louis Couturat formed the Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language.
This delegation made a formal request to the International Association of Academies in Vienna to select and endorse an international language; the request was rejected in May 1907.[7] The Delegation then met as a Committee in Paris in October 1907 to discuss the adoption of a standard international language. Among the languages considered was a new language anonymously submitted at the last moment (and therefore against the Committee rules) under the pen name Ido.[8] In the end the committee, always without plenary sessions and consisting of only 12 members, concluded the last day with 4 votes for and 1 abstention. They concluded that no language was completely acceptable, but that Esperanto could be accepted "on condition of several modifications to be realized by the permanent Commission in the direction defined by the conclusions of the Report of the Secretaries [Louis Couturat and Léopold Leau] and by the Ido project".[9]
The International Ido Congress in Dessau, Germany, in 1922
Esperanto's inventor, L. L. Zamenhof, having heard a number of complaints, had suggested in 1894 a proposal for a Reformed Esperanto with several changes that Ido adopted and made it closer to French: eliminating the accented letters and the accusative case, changing the plural to an Italianesque -i, and replacing the table of correlatives with more Latinate words. However, the Esperanto community voted and rejected Reformed Esperanto,[8] and likewise most rejected the recommendations of the 1907 Committee composed by 12 members. Zamenhof deferred to their judgment, although doubtful. Furthermore, controversy ensued when the "Ido project" was found to have been primarily devised by Louis de Beaufront, whom  Zamenhof had chosen to represent Esperanto before the committee, as the committee's rules dictated that the creator of a submitted language could not defend it.[10] The committee's language was French and not everyone could speak in French. When the president of the Committee asked who was the author of Ido's project, Couturat, Beaufront and Leau answered that they were not. Beaufront was the person who presented Ido's project and gave a description as a better, richer version of Esperanto. Couturat, Leau, Beaufront and Jespersen were finally the only members who voted, all of them for Ido's project. A month later, Couturat accidentally put Jespersen in a copy of a letter in which he acknowledged that Beaufront was the author of the Ido project. Jespersen was angered by this and asked for a public confession, which was never forthcoming.
It is estimated that some 20% of Esperanto leaders and 3–4% of ordinary Esperantists switched to Ido, which from then on suffered constant modifications seeking to perfect it, but which ultimately had the effect of causing many Ido speakers to give up on trying to learn it.[11] Although it fractured the Esperanto movement, the schism gave the remaining Esperantists the freedom to concentrate on using and promoting their language as it stood.[12] At the same time, it gave the Idists freedom to continue working on their own language for several more years before actively promoting it. The Uniono di la Amiki di la Linguo Internaciona (Union of Friends of the International Language) was established along with an Ido Academy to work out the details of the new language.[8]
Couturat, who was the leading proponent of Ido, was killed in an automobile accident in 1914.[8] This, along with World War I, practically suspended the activities of the Ido Academy from 1914 to 1920.[7] In 1928 Ido's major intellectual supporter, the Danish linguist Otto Jespersen, published his own planned language, Novial. His leaving the Ido movement set it back even further.[13]
Digital era[edit]
The language still has active speakers, numbering about 500.[14] The Internet has sparked a renewal of interest in the language in recent years. A sample of 24 Idists on the Yahoo! group Idolisto during November 2005 showed that 57% had begun their studies of the language during the preceding three years, 32% from the mid-1990s to 2002, and 8% had known the language from before.[15]
Changes[edit]
Few changes have been made to Ido since 1922.[16]
Camiel de Cock was named secretary of linguistic issues in 1990, succeeding Roger Moureaux.[17] He resigned after the creation of a linguistic committee in 1991.[18] De Cock was succeeded by Robert C. Carnaghan, who held the position from 1992 to 2008. No new words were adopted between 2001 and 2006.[19] Following the 2008–2011 elections of ULI's direction committee, Gonçalo Neves replaced Carnaghan as secretary of linguistic issues in February 2008.[20] Neves resigned in August 2008.[21] A new linguistic committee was formed in 2010.[22][23][24]  In April 2010, Tiberio Madonna was appointed as secretary of linguistic issues, succeeding Neves.[25][26]  
In January 2011, ULI approved eight new words.[27] This was the first addition of words in many years.[28] As of January 2021, the secretary of linguistic issues remains Tiberio Madonna.[29]
Phonology[edit]
Ido has five vowel phonemes. The values [e] and [ɛ] are interchangeable depending on speaker preference, as are [o] and [ɔ]. The orthographic sequences ⟨au⟩ and ⟨eu⟩ indicate diphthongs in word roots but not when created by affixing.[30]
Ido vowels
Front
Back
Close
i
u
Mid
e ~ ɛ
o ~ ɔ
Open
a
Ido consonants
Labial
Alveolar
Post-alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
Stop
p
b
t
d
k
ɡ
Affricate
c /t͡s/
ch /t͡ʃ/
Fricative
f
v
s
z
sh /ʃ/
j /ʒ/
h
Approximant
w
l
y /j/
(w)
Flap
r /ɾ/
All polysyllabic words are stressed on the second-to-last syllable except for verb infinitives, which are stressed on the last syllable – skolo, kafeo and lernas for "school", "coffee" and the present tense of "to learn", but irar, savar and drinkar for "to go", "to know" and "to drink". If an i or u precedes another vowel, the pair is considered part of the same syllable when applying the accent rule – thus radio, familio and manuo for "radio", "family" and "hand", unless the two vowels are the only ones in the word, in which case the "i" or "u" is stressed: dio, frua for "day" and "early".[31]
Orthography[edit]
Ido uses the same 26 letters as the English alphabet and ISO Basic Latin alphabet with three digraphs and no ligatures or diacritics. Where the table below lists two pronunciations, either is perfectly acceptable.[32]
Letter
IPA
English
Esperanto
a
/a/
a as in "part"
b
/b/
b as in "stable"
c
/t͡s/
most similar to ts as in "cats"*(also used in the digraph ch)
d
/d/
d as in "adopt"
e
/e/, /ɛ/
most similar to e as in "egg" or e as in "bet"
f
/f/
f as in "afraid"
g
/ɡ/
hard g as in "go"
h
/h/
h as in "hat", "ahoy"
i
/i/
i as in "machine", ee in "bee"
j
/ʒ/, /d͡ʒ/
s as in "pleasure, measure" or g in "mirage, beige"
ĵ or ĝ
k
/k/
k as in "skin, skip"
l
/l/
most similar to l as in "lamb"
m
/m/
m as in "admit"
n
/n/
n as in "analogy"
o
/o/, /ɔ/
most similar to o as in "or"
p
/p/
p as in "spin, spark"
q
/k/
same as k*(used only in the digraph qu)
-
r
/ɾ/
flapped or rolled r as in Italian or Spanish;or the r in very in Scottish English pronunciation (cf Pronunciation of English /r/)
s
/s/
s as in "east"*(also used in the digraph sh)
t
/t/
t as in "stake, stop"
u
/u/
u as in "rude"
v
/v/
v as in "avoid"
w
/w/
w as in "award"
-
x
/ks/, /ɡz/
x as in "except" or "exist"
-
y
/j/
y as in "yes"
j
z
/z/
z as in "zebra"
z
The digraphs are:[32]
Digraph
IPA
English
Esperanto
ch
/t͡ʃ/
ch as in "chick"
ĉ
qu
/kw/, /kv/
qu as in "quick"
-
sh
/ʃ/
sh as in "shy"
ŝ
Grammar[edit]
The definite article is la and is invariable.  The indefinite article (a/an) does not exist in Ido. Each word in the Ido vocabulary is built from a root word. A word consists of a root and a grammatical ending. Other words can be formed from that word by removing the grammatical ending and adding a new one, or by inserting certain affixes between the root and the grammatical ending.
Some of the grammatical endings are defined as follows:
Grammatical form
Ido
Esperanto
English
Singular noun
 -o (libro)
-o (libro)
- (book)
Plural noun
-i (libri)
-oj (libroj)
-s (books)
Adjective
-a (varma)
-a, -aj (varma, varmaj)
- (warm)
Adverb
-e (varme)
-e (varme)
-ly (warmly)
Present tense infinitive
-ar (irar)
-anti (iranti)
-i (iri)
to be - (to be going)
to - (to go)
Past tense infinitive
-ir (irir)
-inti (irinti)
to have - (to have gone)
Future tense infinitive
-or (iror)
-onti (ironti)
to be going to - (to be going to go)
Present
-as (iras)
-as (iras)
-, -s, -es (go, goes)
Past
-is (iris)
-is (iris)
irr., -ed (went)
Future
-os (iros)
-os (iros)
will - (will go)
Imperative
-ez (irez)
-u (iru)
! (go!)
Conditional
-us (irus)
-us (irus)
would - (would go)
These are the same as in Esperanto except for -i, -ir, -ar, -or and -ez. Esperanto marks noun plurals by an agglutinative ending -j (so plural nouns end in -oj), uses -i for verb infinitives (Esperanto infinitives are tenseless), and uses -u for the imperative. Verbs in Ido, as in Esperanto, do not conjugate depending on person, number or gender; the -as, -is, and -os endings suffice whether the subject is I, you, he, she, they, or anything else. For the word "to be," Ido allows either esas or es in the present tense; however, the full forms must be used for the past tense esis and future tense esos."  Adjectives and adverbs are compared in Ido by means of the words plu = more, maxim = most, min = less, minim = least, kam = than/as. There exist in Ido three categories of adverbs: the simple, the derived, and the composed. The simple adverbs do not need special endings, for example: tre = very, tro = too, olim = formerly, nun = now, nur = only. The derived and composed adverbs, not being originally adverbs but derived from nouns, adjectives and verbs, have the ending -e.
Syntax[edit]
Ido word order is generally the same as English (subject–verb–object), so the sentence Me havas la blua libro is the same as the English "I have the blue book", both in meaning and word order. There are a few differences, however:
Adjectives can precede the noun as in English, or follow the noun as in Spanish. Thus, Me havas la libro blua means the same thing.
Ido has the accusative suffix -n. Unlike Esperanto, this suffix is only required when the object of the sentence is not clear, for example, when the subject-verb-object word order is not followed. Thus, La blua libron me havas also means the same thing.
Ido generally does not impose rules of grammatical agreement between grammatical categories within a sentence. For example, the verb in a sentence is invariable regardless of the number and person of the subject. Nor must the adjectives be pluralized as well the nouns – in Ido the large books would be la granda libri as opposed to the Esperanto la grandaj libroj.
Negation occurs in Ido by simply adding ne before a verb: Me ne havas libro means "I do not have a book". This as well does not vary, and thus the "I do not", "He does not", "They do not" before a verb are simply Me ne, Il ne, and Li ne. In the same way, past tense and future tense negatives are formed by ne before the conjugated verb. "I will not go" and "I did not go" become Me ne iros and Me ne iris respectively.
Yes/no questions are formed by the particle ka in front of the question. "I have a book" (me havas libro) becomes Ka me havas libro? (do I have a book?). Ka can also be placed in front of a noun without a verb to make a simple question, corresponding to the English "is it?" Ka Mark? can mean, "Are you Mark?", "Is it Mark?", "Do you mean Mark?" depending on the context.
Pronouns[edit]
The pronouns of Ido were revised to make them more acoustically distinct than those of Esperanto, which all end in i. Especially the singular and plural first-person pronouns mi and ni may be difficult to distinguish in a noisy environment, so Ido has me and ni instead. Ido also distinguishes between intimate (tu) and formal (vu) second-person singular pronouns as well as plural second-person pronouns (vi) not marked for intimacy. Furthermore, Ido has a pan-gender third-person pronoun lu (it can mean "he", "she", or "it", depending on the context) in addition to its masculine (il), feminine (el), and neuter (ol) third-person pronouns.
Pronouns
singular
plural
reflexive
indefinite
first
second
third
first
second
third
familiar
formal
masc.
fem.
neuter
pan-gender
masc.
fem.
neuter
pan-gender
Ido
me
tu
vu
il(u)
el(u)
ol(u)
lu
ni
vi
ili
eli
oli
li
su
on(u)
English
I
thou
you
he
she
it
they/it
we
you
they
oneself
one/you/they
Esperanto
mi
ci¹
vi¹
li
ŝi
ĝi
ĝi/ri²
ni
vi
ili
iŝi²
iĝi²
ili/iri²
si
oni
ci, although technically the familiar form of the word "you" in Esperanto, is seldom used. Esperanto's inventor himself did not include the pronoun in the first book on Esperanto and only later reluctantly; later he recommended against using ci because different cultures have conflicting traditions regarding the use of the familiar and formal forms of "you".[33]
ri, iŝi, iĝi and by extension iri are proposed neologisms and are rare, but they are still used albeit seldom.
ol, like English it and Esperanto ĝi, is not limited to inanimate objects, but can be used "for entities whose sex is indeterminate: babies, children, humans, youths, elders, people, individuals, horses, [cattle], cats, etc."
Lu is often mistakenly labeled an epicene pronoun, that is, one that refers to both masculine and feminine beings, but in fact, lu is more properly a "pan-gender" pronoun, as it is also used for referring to inanimate objects. From Kompleta Gramatiko Detaloza di la Linguo Internaciona Ido by Beaufront:
Lu (like li) is used for all three genders. That lu does duty for the three genders at will in the singular is not in itself any more astonishing than seeing li serve the three genders at will in the plural ... By a decision (1558) the Idist Academy rejected every restriction concerning the use of lu. One may thus use that pronoun in exactly the same way for a thing and a person of obvious sex as for animals of unknown sex and a person that has a genderless name, like baby, child, human, etc., these being as truly masculine as feminine.
The motives for this decision were given in "Mondo", XI, 68: Lu for the singular is exactly the same as li for the plural. Logic, symmetry and ease demand this. Consequently, just as li may be used for people, animals, and things whenever nothing obliges one to express the gender, so lu may be used for people, animals, and things under the same condition. The proposed distinction would be a bothersome subtlety ...
Table of correlatives[edit]
Ido makes correlatives by combining entire words together and changing the word ending, with some irregularities to show distinction.
Relative and
interrogative
Demonstrative
Indeterminate
Most
Indeterminate
Negative
Collective
qua, ∅
ita, ∅
ula, ∅
irga
nula
omna
Individual
-u
qua
ita 1
ulu
irgu
nulu
omnu
Thing
-o
quo
ito 1
ulo
irgo
nulo
omno
Plural
-i
qui
iti 1
uli
irgi
nuli
omni
Adjective
-a
qua
ita 1
ula
irga
nula
omna
Motive
pro
pro quo
pro to
pro ulo
pro irgo
pro nulo
pro omno
Place
loke
ube
ibe
ulaloke
irgaloke
nulaloke
omnaloke
Time
tempe
kande
lore
ulatempe 2
irgatempe
nulatempe 2
sempre 3
Quality
-a, speca
quala
tala
ulaspeca 2
irgaspeca
nulaspeca 2
omnaspeca
Manner
-e, maniere
quale
tale
ule, ulamaniere 2
irge, irgamaniere
nule, nulamaniere 2
omne, omnamaniere
Quantity -
adjective
quanta
quanta
tanta
kelka
irgaquanta
nulaquanta
omnaquanta
Quantity -
noun
quanto
quanto
tanto
kelko
irga quanto 4
nula quanto 4
la tota quanto 4
The initial i can be omitted: ta, to, ti, ta.
One can omit the initial a: ultempe, nultempe, ulspeca, nulspeca, ulmaniere, nulmaniere.
omnatempe is correct and usable, but sempre is the actual word.
Instead of irga quanto, nula quanto and la tota quanto one usually says irgo, nulo and omno.
Compound formation[edit]
Composition in Ido obeys stricter rules than in Esperanto, especially formation of
nouns, adjectives and verbs from a radical of a different
class.  The reversibility principle assumes that for each composition rule (affix addition), the corresponding decomposition rule (affix removal) is valid.
Hence, while in Esperanto an adjective (for instance papera, formed on the noun radical paper(o), can mean an attribute (papera enciklopedio "paper-made encyclopedia") and a relation (papera fabriko "paper-making factory"), Ido will distinguish  the attribute papera ("paper" or "of paper" (not "paper-made" exactly)) from the relation paperala ("paper-making").
Similarly, krono means in both Esperanto and Ido the noun "crown"; where Esperanto allows formation of "to crown" by simply changing the ending from noun to verb kroni ("crowning" is kronado), Ido requires an affix so the composition is reversible: kronizar ("the act of crowning" is kronizo).
According to Claude Piron, some modifications brought by Ido are in practice impossible to use and ruin spontaneous expression: Ido displays, on linguistic level, other drawbacks Esperanto succeeded to avoid, but I don't have at hand documents which would allow me to go further in detail.  For instance, if I remember correctly, where Esperanto only has the suffix -igi*, Ido has several: *-ifar*, *-izar*, *-igar*, which match subtleties which were meant to make language clearer, but that, in practice, inhibit natural expression.[34]
Vocabulary[edit]
See also: wiktionary:Appendix:Ido Swadesh list
Vocabulary in Ido is derived from French, Italian, Spanish, English, German, and Russian. Basing the vocabulary on various widespread languages was intended to make Ido as easy as possible for the greatest number of people possible. Early on, the first 5,371 Ido word roots were analyzed compared to the vocabulary of the six source languages, and the following result was found:[35]
2024 roots (38%) belong to 6 languages
942 roots (17%) belong to 5 languages
1111 roots (21%) belong to 4 languages
585 roots (11%) belong to 3 languages
454 roots (8%) belong to 2 languages
255 roots (5%) belong to 1 language
Another analysis showed that:
4880 roots (91%) are found in French
4454 roots (83%) are found in Italian
4237 roots (79%) are found in Spanish
4219 roots (79%) are found in English
3302 roots (61%) are found in German
2821 roots (52%) are found in Russian
Comparison of Ido vocabulary with its six source languages (by # of roots)
Ido
French
Italian
Spanish
English
German
Russian
bona
bon
buono
bueno
good
bonus
gut
Bonus
khoroshiy
(хороший)
donar
donner
dare
donare
dar
donar
give
donate
geben
dat, darit
(дать) (дарить)
filtrar
filtrer
filtrare
filtrar
filter
filtern
filtrovat
(фильтровать)
gardeno
jardin
giardino
jardín
garden
Garten
sad
(caд)
kavalo
cheval
cavallo
caballo
horse
cavalry
Pferd
Kavallerie
loshad, kobyla
(лошадь, кобыла)
maro
mer
mare
mar
sea
marine
Meer
more
(море)
naciono
nation
nazione
nación
nation
Nation
natsija
(нация)
studiar
étudier
studiare
estudiar
study
studieren
izuchat
(изучать)
yuna
jeune
giovane
joven
young
juvenile
jung
yunyi, molodoy
(юный, молодой)
Comparison of Ido vocabulary with Esperanto and Latin (or Germanic root)
Ido
Esperanto
Latin
Germanic
bona
bona
bonum
donar
doni
dare
filtrar
filtri
spargere
felt
gardeno
ĝardeno
hortum
gardo
kavalo
ĉevalo
equum, caballus
maro
maro
mare
naciono
nacio
gentem, natio
studiar
studi
studere
yuna
juna
iuvenis
jung
Vocabulary in Ido is often created through a number of official prefixes and suffixes that alter the meaning of the word. This allows a user to take existing words and modify them to create neologisms when necessary, and allows for a wide range of expression without the need to learn new vocabulary each time. Though their number is too large to be included in one article, some examples include:
The diminutive suffix -et-. Domo (house) becomes dometo (cottage), and libro (book) becomes libreto (novelette or short story).
The pejorative suffix -ach-. Domo becomes domacho (hovel), and libro becomes libracho (a shoddy piece of work, pulp fiction, etc.)
The prefix retro-, which implies a reversal. Irar (to go) becomes retroirar (to go back, backward) and venar (to come) becomes retrovenar (to return).
New vocabulary is generally created through an analysis of the word, its etymology, and reference to the six source languages. If a word can be created through vocabulary already existing in the language then it will usually be adopted without need for a new radical (such as wikipedio for Wikipedia, which consists of wiki + enciklopedio for encyclopedia), and if not an entirely new word will be created. The word alternatoro for example was adopted in 1926, likely because five of the six source languages used largely the same orthography for the word, and because it was long enough to avoid being mistaken for other words in the existing vocabulary.[36] Adoption of a word is done through consensus, after which the word will be made official by the union. Care must also be taken to avoid homonyms if possible, and usually a new word undergoes some discussion before being adopted. Foreign words that have a restricted sense and are not likely to be used in everyday life (such as the word intifada to refer to the conflict between Israel and Palestine) are left untouched, and often written in italics.
Ido, unlike Esperanto, does not assume the male sex by default. For example, Ido does not derive the word for "waitress" by adding a feminine suffix to "waiter", as Esperanto does. Instead, Ido words are defined as sex-neutral, and two different suffixes derive masculine and feminine words from the root: servisto for a waiter of either sex, servistulo for a male waiter, and servistino for a waitress. There are only two exceptions to this rule:[16] First, patro for "father", matro for "mother", and genitoro for "parent", and second, viro for "man", muliero for "woman", and adulto for "adult".[37]
Sample[edit]
The Lord's Prayer in Ido
Problems playing this file? See media help.
The Lord's Prayer:
Ido[citation needed]
Patro nia, qua esas en la cielo,
tua nomo santigesez;
tua regno advenez;
tua volo facesez
quale en la cielo, tale anke sur la tero.
Donez a ni cadie l'omnadia pano,
e pardonez a ni nia ofensi,
quale anke ni pardonas a nia ofensanti,
e ne duktez ni aden la tento,
ma liberigez ni del malajo.
English
Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be your name.
Thy kingdom come,
Thy will be done,
on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread,
and forgive us our debts,
as we also have forgiven our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from evil.
Literature and publications[edit]
Ido has a number of publications that can be subscribed to or downloaded for free in most cases. Kuriero Internaciona is a magazine produced in France every few months with a range of topics. Adavane! is a magazine produced by the Spanish Ido Society every two months that has a range of topics, as well as a few dozen pages of work translated from other languages. Progreso is the official organ of the Ido movement and has been around since the inception of the movement in 1908. Other sites can be found with various stories, fables or proverbs along with a few books of the Bible translated into Ido on a smaller scale. The site publikaji has a few podcasts in Ido along with various songs and other recorded material.
Wikipedia includes an Ido-language edition (known in Ido as Wikipedio); in January 2012 it was the 81st most visited Wikipedia.[38]
Symbols of Ido[edit]
An Ido-Stelo
The Ido star or Jankó star is the main symbol of Ido. It is a six pointed star, with the points representing Ido's six source languages: English, French, Italian, German, Spanish and Russian. Alternatively, the six points represent the six continents (excluding Antarctica). The emblem was originally a six pointed white star on a circular blue background, consisting of two concentric, equilateral triangles, with one vertically flipped. However, this was soon changed due to the similarity it presented with the Star of David, since a true international auxiliary language should not have religious affiliations.
After a search to find an appropriate new symbol, the Ido-Akademio decided on the current Ido symbol, created by their secretary, Paul von Jankó (hence the alternative name the Jankó star). The current Ido Star is a concave isotoxal hexagon, with a vertically flipped equilateral triangle overlaid on top. This new shape also had the benefit of being able to be copyrighted.[citation needed]
International Ido conventions[edit]
ULI organises Ido conventions yearly, and the conventions include a mix of tourism and work.[39]
2019: Berlin, Germany, 15 participants from 2 countries (Information)
2018: Provins, France, 11 participants from 5 countries (Information)
2017: České Budějovice, Czech Republic, 8 participants from 5 countries (Information)
2016: Valencia, Spain, 10 participants from 7 countries (Information)
2015: Berlin, Germany, 14 participants (Information)
2014: Paris, France (Information)
2013: Ouroux-en-Morvan, France, 13 participants from 4 countries (Information)
2012: Dessau, Germany, 12 participants (Information)
2011: Echternach, Luxembourg (Information), 24 participants from 11 countries
2010: Tübingen, Germany (Information)
2009: Riga, Latvia, and Tallinn, Estonia, 14 participants from 7 countries (Information)
2008: Wuppertal-Neviges, Germany, 18 participants from 5 countries (Information)
2007: Paris, France, 14 participants from 9 countries (Information,  Photos)
2006: Berlin, Germany, approx. 25 participants from 10 countries (Information)
2005: Toulouse, France, 13 participants from 4 countries (Information)
2004: Kyiv, Ukraine, 17 participants from 9 countries (Information)
2003: Großbothen, Germany, participants from 6 countries (Information)
2002: Kraków, Poland, 14 participants from 6 countries (Information)
2001: Nuremberg, Germany, 14 participants from 5 countries (Information)
2000: Nuremberg, Germany
1999: Waldkappel, Germany
1998: Białobrzegi, Poland, 15 participants from 6 countries
1997: Bakkum, Netherlands, 19 participants from 7 countries
1995: Elsnigk, Germany
1991: Ostend, Belgium, 21 participants
1990: Waldkappel, Germany
1989: Zürich-Thalwil, Switzerland
1987: Eschwege, Germany
1985: Antwerp, Belgium
1983: York, England
1981: Jongny, Switzerland
1980: Namur, Belgium, 35 participants
1979: Uppsala, Sweden
1978: Cambridge, England
1977: Berlin-Tegel, Germany
1976: Saint-Nazaire, France
1975: Thun, Switzerland
1974: Kyiv, Ukraine
1973: Cardiff, Wales
1972: Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland
1971: Trollhättan, Sweden
1970: Luxembourg City, Luxembourg
1969: Zürich, Switzerland
1968: Berlin, Germany
1967: Bourges, France
1966: Biella, Italy
1965: Lons-le-Saunier, France
1964: Kiel, Germany
1963: Barcelona, Spain
1962: Thun, Switzerland
1961: Zürich, Switzerland, c. 50 participants
1960: Colmar, France
1959: Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany
1957: Luxembourg City, Luxembourg
1952: Berlin, Germany
1951: Turin, Italy
1950: Colmar, France
1939: St. Gallen, Switzerland
1937: Paris, France
1936: Szombathely, Hungary
1935: Fredericia, Denmark
1934: Oostduinkerke, Belgium
1933: Mondorf, Luxembourg
1931: Lauenburg/Elbe, Germany
1930: Sopron, Hungary
1929: Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany
1928: Zürich, Switzerland
1927: Paris, France
1926: Prague, Czechoslovakia
1925: Turin, Italy
1924: Luxembourg City, Luxembourg
1923: Kassel, Germany
1922: Dessau, Germany
1921: Vienna, Austria
See also[edit]
Language portalConstructed languages portal
Comparison between Esperanto and Ido
Comparison between Ido and Novial
Comparison between Ido and Interlingua
Interhelpo
English false friends in Ido
Engelbert Pigal
References[edit]
^ a b Blanke (2000), cited in Sabine Fiedler "Phraseology in planned languages", Phraseology / Phraseologie, Walter de Gruyter 2007. pp. 779.
^ "Esperanto-English Dictionary". Retrieved 12 February 2012.
^ "Libreyo" (in Ido). 27 January 2018. Retrieved 27 December 2018.
^ Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (2013). La Princeto (in Ido). Translated by Fernando Tejón. Retrieved 27 December 2018.
^ "Evangelio da Santa Lukas" (PDF) (in Ido). Translated by L. Kauling. 1926. Retrieved 27 December 2018.
^ "Väestö 31.12. muuttujina Alue, Kieli, Sukupuoli, Vuosi ja Tiedot". Tilastokeskuksen PX-Web tietokannat (in Finnish). Retrieved 26 June 2021.[dead link]
^ a b Guérard, A. L. "Chapter VII". A Short History of the International Language Movement. Archived from the original on 6 February 2012. Retrieved 12 February 2012.
^ a b c d Dyer, Luther H (1923). The Problem of an International Auxiliary Language and its Solution in Ido. pp. 54–74. Retrieved 12 February 2012.
^ Leau, Léopold (August 1933). "La Vereso pri la Delegitaro en 1907" [The Truth about the Delegation in 1907]. Progreso (in Ido). X (96): 4. Retrieved 12 February 2012.
^ Jacob, Henry (1947). "II. Ido". A Planned Auxiliary Language. Retrieved 12 February 2012.
^ Lapenna, Ivo; Ulrich Lins; Tazio Carlevaro (1974). Esperanto en perspektivo: Faktoj kaj analizoj pri la internacia lingvo [Esperanto in Perspective: Facts and Analyses about the International Language] (in Esperanto). London: Centro de Esploro kaj Dokumentado pri la Monda Lingvo-Problemo. p. 424.
^ Harlow, Donald J (4 July 2006). "Ido". How to Build a Language. Retrieved 12 February 2020.
^ Harlow, Donald J. "How to Build a Language". Retrieved 4 February 2019.
^ Seagull, Gareth (29 October 2019). "Should there be a Universal Language?". Raptor Translations Magazine: The Translation Business Magazine. Raptor Consolidated Media Group. Retrieved 5 January 2021.
^ MacLeod, Dave (23 November 2005). "Votez! Kande vu komencis lernar Ido?" [Vote! When did you start learning Ido?] (in Ido). Retrieved 19 January 2012.[dead link]
^ a b Chandler, James (6 November 1997). "Changes in Ido since 1922". Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ "Listo di nova vorti propozita da la Linguala komitato dil Uniono" [List of new words proposed by the Language committee of the Union]. Suplemento a la revuo Progreso numero 290 (in Ido). ULI. Archived from the original on 14 September 2012. Retrieved 19 April 2012.
^ Bol, Jacques (15 November 2004). "Pri Camiel de Cock" [About Camiel de Cock] (in Ido).
^ Chandler, James (16 April 2006). "Lasta decido pri nova vorti" [Latest decision on new words] (in Ido).
^ Landais, Loïc (17 February 2008). "Nova DK di ULI por 2008–2011" [New SC [Steering Committee] of ULI for 2008-2011] (in Ido).
^ Neves, Gonçalo (29 August 2008). "demisiono ed adio" [resignation and farewell] (in Ido).
^ Landais, Loïc (28 September 2009). "Linguala Komitato di ULI" [Linguistic Committee of the ULI] (in Ido).
^ Richard, Gaël (9 February 2010). "RE: [linguo] Ube es komitato linguala" [RE: [language] Where is the language committee] (in Ido).
^ "Linguala Komitato di ULI" [Linguistic Committee of the ULI]. Uniono por la Linguo Internaciona Ido (ULI).
^ Jibran (Partaka ), Khalil (16 April 2010). "Ido havas nova Sekretario pri Linguala Questioni" [Ido has a new Secretary of Linguistic Issues] (in Ido). Archived from the original on 12 July 2012.
^ "Nomino di Sekretario por Linguala Questioni di ULI" [Nomination of the Secretariat for Linguistic Functions of the ULI]. Uniono por la Linguo Internaciona Ido (in Ido). 3 April 2010.
^ Madonna, Tiberio (1 January 2011). "2esma raporto de la Linguala Komitato" [2nd report of the Linguistic Committee] (in Ido).
^ Chandler, James (2 January 2011). "RE: [linguo] 2esma raporto de la Linguala Komitato" [2nd report of the Language committee] (in Ido).
^ "La Direktanta Komitato di ULI" [The Steering Committee of the ULI] (in Ido). ULI. 3 January 2021. Retrieved 5 January 2021.
^ De Beaufront, Louis (2004) [1st pub. 1925]. Tejón, Fernando (ed.). "Pronunco dil vokali" (PDF). Kompleta Gramatiko detaloza di la linguo internaciona Ido (in Ido). Ponferrada, Spain: Krayono. p. 7. Archived (PDF) from the original on 13 August 2015.
^ De Beaufront, L (2004). "Acento tonika" [Tonic accent] (PDF). Kompleta Gramatiko Detaloza di Ido. pp. 11–12. Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ a b De Beaufront, L (2004). "Kompleta Gramatiko Detaloza di Ido" [Comeplete Detailed Grammar of Ido] (PDF). pp. 7–10. Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ Eventoj, no. 103, ISSN 1215-959X. Ci estas senvalora balasto (Ci is useless ballast). 1996. Available at http://www.eventoj.hu/arkivo/eve-103.htm
^ "Claude Piron - communication, langues, espéranto".
^ Dyer, Luther H (1923). The Problem of an International Auxiliary Language and its Solution in Ido. pp. 101–121. Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ De Cock, Camiel (1988). "Lexiko di nova vorti" [Lexicon of new words]. Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ ApGawain, Niklas; Hugon, P. D.; Moore, J. L.; De Beaufront, Louis (2008) [1st pub. 1999]. Muelver, Jerry (ed.). Ido for All (PDF) (1.6 ed.). North American Ido Society. pp. 42, 52, 70. Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 November 2011.
^ Zachte, Erik (18 January 2012). "Page Views for Wikipedia, Non-mobile, Normalized". Retrieved 19 January 2012.
^ "ULI's website". Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 10 January 2016.
Additional notes
L. Couturat, L. Leau. Delegation pour l'adoption d'une Langue auxiliare internationale (15–24 October 1907). Coulommiers: Imprimerie Paul Brodard, 1907
External links[edit]
Ido  at Wikipedia's sister projects
Media from CommonsTextbooks from WikibooksResources from WikiversityIdo edition of WikipediaData from Wikidata
The international language Ido
Union for the International Language Ido (in Ido)
Ido : a Modern Language
The IDO foundation for language research in memory of Hellmut Röhnish
Otto Jespersen's history of Ido
Henry Jacob's history of Ido
Ido for all – English course for learning Ido
Online Ido library (in Ido)
Examples of Ido Phrases
vteConstructed languagesClassification
Artistic
Fictional
Language game
International auxiliary
Zonal
Engineered
Experimental
Musical
Philosophical
Specific languages by groupInternationalauxiliary
Adjuvilo
Babm
Blissymbols
Bolak
Communicationssprache
Esperanto
Arcaicam
Esperanto II
Ido
Mundolinco
Reformed
Romániço
other esperantidos
Glosa
Interglossa
Idiom Neutral
Intal
Interlingua
Interlingue
International Sign
Kotava
Langue nouvelle
Latino sine flexione
Lingua Franca Nova
Lingwa de planeta
Mondial
Neo
Nal Bino
Novial
Pasilingua
Sambahsa
Solresol
Sona
Spokil
Unish
Universalglot
Uropi
Volapük
Zonal
Afrihili
Budinos
Efatese language
Eurolengo
Guosa
N'Ko
Palawa kani
Pan-Germanic language
Folkspraak
Tutonish
Pan-Romance language
Romanid
Sabir
Pan-Slavic language
Interslavic
Runyakitara
Wede
Weltdeutsch
Engineered
aUI
Basic English
Dutton Speedwords
Ithkuil
Kalaba-X
Astrolinguistics
Lincos
Lingua generalis
Loglan
Logopandecteision
Lojban
Real Character
Ro
Toki Pona
Viossa
Fictional andother artistic
Atlantean
Belter Creole
Brithenig
Dritok
Dothraki
Elvish languages
Enchanta
Kēlen
Kiliki
Klingon
Kobaïan
Láadan
Loxian
Lydnevi
Mänti
Middle-earth languages
Adûnaic
Quenya
Sindarin
more...
Naʼvi
Nadsat
Star Wars languages
Syldavian
Teonaht
Tsolyáni
Utopian
Valyrian
Venedic
Verdurian
Wenja
Ritual and other
Balaibalan
Damin
Enochian
Eskayan
Lingua ignota
Medefaidrin
Yerkish
Zaum
Writing systems
Constructed script
Esperanto orthography
Tolkien's scripts
Cirth
Sarati
Tengwar
Related
Conlanging: The Art of Crafting Tongues
Grammelot
Relexification
"A Secret Vice"
Zompist.com
Langmaker
Codes for constructed languages
Comparisons
Esperanto/Ido
Esperanto/Interlingua
Esperanto/Novial
Ido/Interlingua
Ido/Novial
Interlingue/Interlingua
Lojban/Loglan
Portal
List of constructed languages
List of language creators
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ido&oldid=1168937135"
Categories: EsperantidoIdo languageConstructed languagesInternational auxiliary languagesConstructed languages introduced in the 1900sInternational auxiliary languages introduced in the 1900sHidden categories: CS1 Ido-language sources (io)CS1 Finnish-language sources (fi)All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from August 2021CS1 Esperanto-language sources (eo)Articles with dead external links from January 2021Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from March 2021Articles with unnamed Glottolog codeLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeISO language articles citing sources other than EthnologueArticles containing Esperanto-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2022Articles containing Ido-language textArticles with hAudio microformatsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2021Articles with unsourced statements from September 2022Pages using Sister project links with wikidata mismatchArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiers
 This page was last edited on 6 August 2023, at 01:07 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width