Slovak language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Phonology
2Orthography
3Syntax
4Morphology
Toggle Morphology subsection
4.1Articles
4.2Nouns, adjectives, pronouns
4.3Numerals
4.4Verbs
4.4.1Conjugations
4.5Adverbs
4.6Prepositions
5History
6Relationships to other languages
Toggle Relationships to other languages subsection
6.1Czech
6.2Other Slavic languages
6.3Latin
6.4English
6.5German
6.6Hungarian
7Dialects
8Regulation
9See also
10References
11Bibliography
12Further reading
13External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Slovak language
154 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛÆngliscАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaCorsuCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschDolnoserbskiEestiΕλληνικάЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGaelgGagauzGàidhligGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaქართულიKaszëbscziҚазақшаKernowekIkinyarwandaKiswahiliКомиKotavaKurdîКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschЛезгиLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarМакедонскиMaltiमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟМокшеньМонголNederlandsनेपाल भाषा日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorfuk / PitkernNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPicardPiemontèisTok PisinPolskiPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаGagana SamoaᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСловѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TaqbaylitТатарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapük文言Winaray吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語ZeêuwsŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
West Slavic language spoken primarily in Slovakia
"Slovenčina" redirects here. For the South Slavic language spoken in Slovenia, see Slovene language.
Slovakslovenčina, slovenský jazykPronunciation[ˈslɔʋentʂina], [ˈslɔʋenskiː ˈjazik]Native toSlovakia, Hungary, Carpathian Ruthenia and Vojvodina[1]EthnicitySlovaksSpeakersNative: 5 million (2011–2021)[2]L2: 2 million[2]Language familyIndo-European
Balto-SlavicSlavicWest SlavicCzech–SlovakSlovakWriting systemLatin (Slovak alphabet)Slovak BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language in Slovakia European Union Serbia (in Vojvodina)[3]Recognised minoritylanguage in Czech Republic  Poland[4] Hungary[5]
 Croatia   Ukraine  Russia   BelarusRegulated byMinistry of Culture of the Slovak RepublicLanguage codesISO 639-1skISO 639-2slo (B) slk (T)ISO 639-3slkGlottologslov1269Linguasphere53-AAA-db < 53-AAA-b...–d(varieties: 53-AAA-dba to 53-AAA-dbs)The Slovak-speaking world:
  regions where Slovak is the language of the majority   regions where Slovak is the language of a significant minorityThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Slovak (/ˈsloʊvæk, -vɑːk/ SLOH-va(h)k;[6][7] endonym: slovenčina [ˈslɔʋentʂina] or slovenský jazyk [ˈslɔʋenskiː ˈjazik]) is a West Slavic language of the Czech–Slovak group, written in Latin script.[8] It is part of the Indo-European language family, and is one of the Slavic languages, which are part of the larger Balto-Slavic branch. Spoken by approximately 5 million people as a native language, primarily ethnic Slovaks, it serves as the official language of Slovakia and one of the 24 official languages of the European Union.
Slovak is closely related to Czech, to the point of very high mutual intelligibility,[9] as well as Polish.[10] Like other Slavic languages, Slovak is a fusional language with a complex system of morphology and relatively flexible word order. Its vocabulary has been extensively influenced by Latin[11] and German[12] and other Slavic languages.
The Czech–Slovak group developed within West Slavic in the high medieval period, and the standardization of Czech and Slovak within the Czech–Slovak dialect continuum emerged in the early modern period. In the later mid-19th century, the modern Slovak alphabet and written standard became codified by Ľudovít Štúr and reformed by Martin Hattala. The Moravian dialects spoken in the western part of the country along the border with the Czech Republic are also sometimes classified as Slovak, although some of their western variants are closer to Czech; they nonetheless form the bridge dialects between the two languages.
Slovak speakers are also found in the Slovak diaspora in the United States, the Czech Republic, Argentina, Serbia, Ireland, Romania, Poland, Canada, Hungary, Germany, Croatia, Israel, the United Kingdom, Australia, Austria, Ukraine, Norway, and other countries to a lesser extent.
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Slovak phonology
Slovak contains 15 vowel phonemes (11 monophthongs and four diphthongs) and 29 consonants. 
Slovak vowel phonemes
Front
Back
short
long
short
long
Close
i
iː
u
uː
Mid
e
eː
ɔ
(ɔː)
Open
(æ)
a
aː
Diphthongs
(ɪu)   ɪe   ɪɐ   ʊɔ
The phoneme /æ/ is marginal and often merges with /e/; the two are normally only distinguished in higher registers.[13]
Vowel length is phonemic in Slovak and both short and long vowels have the same quality.[14] In addition, Slovak employs a "rhythmic law" which forbids two long vowels from following one another. In such cases the second vowel is shortened. For example, adding the locative plural ending -ách to the root vín- creates vínach, not *vínách.[15]
Slovak consonant phonemes[16]
Labial
Alveolar
Retroflex
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
Plosive
voiceless
p
t
c [17]
k
voiced
b
d
ɟ [17]
ɡ
Affricate
voiceless
ts
tʂ
voiced
dz
dʐ
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
ʂ
x
voiced
z
ʐ
ɦ
Approximant
plain
v
j
lateral
short
l
ʎ
geminated
lː
Trill
short
r
geminated
rː
Slovak has final devoicing; when a voiced consonant (b, d, ď, g, dz, dž, z, ž, h) is at the end of a word before a pause, it is devoiced to its voiceless counterpart (p, t, ť, k, c, č, s, š, ch, respectively). For example, pohyb is pronounced /pɔɦip/ and prípad is pronounced /priːpat/.
Consonant clusters containing both voiced and voiceless elements are entirely voiced if the last consonant is a voiced one, or voiceless if the last consonant is voiceless. For example, otázka is pronounced /ɔtaːska/ and vzchopiť sa is pronounced /fsxɔpitsːa/. This rule applies also over the word boundary. For example, prísť domov [priːzɟ dɔmɔw] (to come home) and viac jahôd [ʋɪɐdz jaɦʊɔt] (more strawberries). The voiced counterpart of "ch" /x/ is [ɣ], and the unvoiced counterpart of "h" /ɦ/ is /x/.
Orthography[edit]
Main articles: Slovak orthography and Slovak braille
Slovak uses the Latin script with small modifications that include the four diacritics (ˇ, ´, ¨, ˆ) placed above certain letters (a-á,ä; c-č; d-ď; dz-dž; e-é; i-í; l-ľ,ĺ; n-ň; o-ó,ô; r-ŕ; s-š; t-ť; u-ú; y-ý; z-ž)
The primary principle of Slovak spelling is the phonemic principle. The secondary principle is the morphological principle: forms derived from the same stem are written in the same way even if they are pronounced differently. An example of this principle is the assimilation rule (see below). The tertiary principle is the etymological principle, which can be seen in the use of i after certain consonants and of y after other consonants, although both i and y are usually pronounced the same way.
Finally, the rarely applied grammatical principle is present when, for example, the basic singular form and plural form of masculine adjectives are written differently with no difference in pronunciation (e.g. pekný = nice – singular versus pekní = nice – plural). Such spellings are most often remnants of differences in pronunciation that were present in Proto-Slavic (in Polish, where the vowel merger did not occur, piękny and piękni and in Czech pěkný and pěkní are pronounced differently).
Most loanwords from foreign languages are respelt using Slovak principles either immediately or later. For example, "weekend" is spelled víkend, "software" – softvér, "gay" – gej (both not exclusively)[clarification needed], and "quality" is spelled kvalita. Personal and geographical names from other languages using Latin alphabets keep their original spelling unless a fully Slovak form of the name exists (e.g. Londýn for "London").
Slovak features some heterophonic homographs (words with identical spelling but different pronunciation and meaning), the most common examples being krásne /ˈkraːsnɛ/ (beautiful) versus krásne /ˈkraːsɲɛ/ (beautifully).
a [a]
á [aː]
ä [ɛɐ̯~ɛ]
b [b]
c [ts]
č [tʂ]
d [d]
ď [ɟ]
dz [dz]
dž [dʐ]
e [ɛ]
é [ɛː]
f [f]
g [ɡ]
h [ɦ]
ch [x]
i [i]
í [iː]
j [j]
k [k]
l [l]
ľ [ʎ]
ĺ [lː]
m [m]
n [n]
ň [ɲ]
o [ɔ]
ó [ɔː]
ô [ʊɔ̯]
p [p]
q [kʋ]
r [r]
ŕ [r̩ː]
s [s]
š [ʂ]
t [t]
ť [c]
u [u]
ú [uː]
v [v]
w [v] (only in foreign words)
x [ks]
y [i]
ý [iː]
z [z]
ž [ʐ]
Syntax[edit]
The main features of Slovak syntax are as follows:
The verb (predicate) agrees in person and number with its subject.
Some examples include the following:
Speváčka spieva. (The+singer+feminine suffix čka is+singing.)
(Speváčk-a spieva-∅, where -∅ is (the empty) third-person-singular ending)
Speváčky spievajú. (Singer+feminine suffix čka+plural suffix y are+singing.)
(Speváčk-y spieva-j-ú; -ú is a third-person-plural ending, and /j/ is a hiatus sound)
My speváčky spievame. (We the+singer+feminine suffix čka+plural suffix y are+singing.)
(My speváčk-y spieva-me, where -me is the first-person-plural ending)
and so forth.
Adjectives, pronouns and numerals agree in person, gender and case with the noun to which they refer.
Adjectives precede their noun. Botanic or zoological terms are exceptions (e.g. mačka divá, literally "cat wild", Felis silvestris) as is the naming of Holy Spirit (Duch Svätý) in a majority of churches.
Word order in Slovak is relatively free, since strong inflection enables the identification of grammatical roles (subject, object, predicate, etc.) regardless of word placement. This relatively free word order allows the use of word order to convey topic and emphasis.
Some examples are as follows:
Ten veľký muž tam dnes otvára obchod. = That big man opens a store there today. (ten = that; veľký = big; muž = man; tam = there; dnes = today; otvára = opens; obchod = store) – The word order does not emphasize any specific detail, just general information.
Ten veľký muž dnes otvára obchod tam. = That big man is today opening a store there. – This word order emphasizes the place (tam = there).
Dnes tam otvára obchod ten veľký muž. = Today over there a store is being opened by that big man. – This word order focuses on the person who is opening the store (ten = that; veľký = big; muž = man).
Obchod tam dnes otvára ten veľký muž. = The store over there is today being opened by that big man. – Depending on the intonation the focus can be either on the store itself or on the person.
The unmarked order is subject–verb–object. Variation in word order is generally possible, but word order is not completely free.
In the above example, the noun phrase ten veľký muž cannot be split up, so that the following combinations are not possible:
Ten otvára veľký muž tam dnes obchod.
Obchod muž tam ten veľký dnes otvára. ...
And the following sentence is stylistically infelicitous:
Obchod ten veľký muž dnes tam otvára. (Only possible in a poem or other forms of artistic style.)
The regular variants are as follows: 
Ten veľký muž tam dnes otvára obchod.
Ten veľký muž tam otvára dnes obchod.
Obchod tam dnes otvára ten veľký muž.
Obchod tam otvára dnes ten veľký muž.
Dnes tam obchod otvára ten veľký muž.
Dnes tam ten veľký muž otvára obchod.
Morphology[edit]
Articles[edit]
Slovak, like every major Slavic language other than Bulgarian and Macedonian, does not have articles. The demonstrative pronoun ten (fem: tá, neuter: to) may be used in front of the noun in situations where definiteness must be made explicit.
Nouns, adjectives, pronouns[edit]
Main article: Slovak declension
Slovak nouns are inflected for case and number. There are six cases: nominative, genitive, dative, accusative, locative, and instrumental. The vocative is purely optional and most of the time unmarked. It is used mainly in spoken language and in some fixed expressions: mama mum (nominative) vs. mami mum! (vocative), tato, oco dad (N) vs. tati, oci dad! (V), pán Mr., sir vs. pane sir (when addressing someone e.g. in the street). There are two numbers: singular and plural. Nouns have inherent gender. There are three genders: masculine, feminine, and neuter. Adjectives and pronouns must agree with nouns in case, number, and gender.
Numerals[edit]
The numerals 0–10 have unique forms, with numerals 1–4 requiring specific gendered representations. Numerals 11–19 are formed by adding násť to the end of each numeral. The suffix dsať is used to create numerals 20, 30 and 40; for numerals 50, 60, 70, 80 and 90, desiat is used. Compound numerals (21, 1054) are combinations of these words formed in the same order as their mathematical symbol is written (e.g. 21 = dvadsaťjeden, literally "twenty-one").
The numerals are as follows:
1–10
11–20
10–100
1
jeden (number, masculine), jedno (neuter), jedna (feminine)
11
jedenásť
10
desať
2
dva (number, masculine inanimate), dve (neuter, feminine), dvaja (masculine animate)
12
dvanásť
20
dvadsať
3
tri (number, neuter, masculine inanimate, feminine), traja (masculine animate)
13
trinásť
30
tridsať
4
štyri (number, neuter, masculine inanimate, feminine), štyria (masculine animate)
14
štrnásť
40
štyridsať
5
päť
15
pätnásť
50
päťdesiat
6
šesť
16
šestnásť
60
šesťdesiat
7
sedem
17
sedemnásť
70
sedemdesiat
8
osem
18
osemnásť
80
osemdesiat
9
deväť
19
devätnásť
90
deväťdesiat
10
desať
20
dvadsať
100
sto
Some higher numbers: (200) dvesto, (300) tristo, (900) deväťsto, (1,000) tisíc, (1,100) tisícsto, (2,000) dvetisíc, (100,000) stotisíc, (200,000) dvestotisíc, (1,000,000) milión, (1,000,000,000) miliarda.
Counted nouns have two forms. The most common form is the plural genitive (e.g. päť domov = five houses or stodva žien = one hundred two women), while the plural form of the noun when counting the amounts of 2–4, etc., is usually the nominative form without counting (e.g. dva domy = two houses or dve ženy = two women) but gender rules do apply in many cases.
Verbs[edit]
Verbs have three major conjugations. Three persons and two numbers (singular and plural) are distinguished. Subject personal pronouns are omitted unless they are emphatic.
Some imperfective verbs are created from the stems of perfective verbs to denote repeated or habitual actions. These are considered separate lexemes. One example is as follows: to hide (perfective) = skryť, to hide (habitual) = skrývať.
Historically, two past tense forms were utilized. Both are formed analytically. The second of these, equivalent to the pluperfect, is not used in the modern language, being considered archaic and/or grammatically incorrect. Examples for two related verbs are as follows:
skryť: skryl som (I hid / I have hidden); bol som skryl (I had hidden)
skrývať: skrýval som; bol som skrýval.
One future tense exists. For imperfective verbs, it is formed analytically; for perfective verbs, it is identical to the present tense. Some examples are as follows:
skryť: skryjem
skrývať: budem skrývať
Two conditional forms exist. Both are formed analytically from the past tense:
skryť: skryl by som (I would hide), bol by som skryl (I would have hidden)
skrývať: skrýval by som; bol by som skrýval
The passive voice is formed either as in English (copula + passive participle) or using the reflexive pronoun 'sa':
skryť: je skrytý; sa skryje
skrývať: je skrývaný; sa skrýva
The passive participle (= ~ed (one), the "third form") is formed using the suffixes -ný / -tý / -ený:
skryť: skrytý
skrývať: skrývaný
The active present participle (= ~ing (one)) is formed using the suffixes -úci / -iaci / -aci
skryť: skryjúci
skrývať: skrývajúci
The transgressive (=(while/by) ...ing) is formed using the suffixes -úc / -uc / -iac/-ac.[clarification needed]
skryť: skryjúc (by hiding (perfective))
skrývať: skrývajúc ((while/during) hiding)
The active past participle (= ~ing (in the past)) was formerly formed using the suffix -vší, but is no longer used.
The gerund (= the (process of) ...ing) is formed using the suffix -ie:
skryť: skrytie
skrývať: skrývanie
Conjugations[edit]
Several conjugation paradigms exist as follows:[18]
á-type verbs (Class I)
volať, to call
Singular
Plural
Past tense (masculine – feminine – neuter)
1st person
volám
voláme
volal – volala – volalo
2nd person
voláš
voláte
3rd person
volá
volajú
á-type verbs (Class I) + rhythmical rule
bývať, to live, dwell, but not exist
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
bývam
bývame
býval – bývala – bývalo
2nd person
bývaš
bývate
3rd person
býva
bývajú
á-type verbs (Class I) (soft stem)
vracať, to return or (mostly in slang) to vomit
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
vraciam
vraciame
vracal – vracala – vracalo
2nd person
vraciaš
vraciate
3rd person
vracia
vracajú
í-type verbs (Class V)
robiť, to do, work
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
robím
robíme
robil – robila – robilo
2nd person
robíš
robíte
3rd person
robí
robia
í-type verbs (Class V) + rhythmical rule
vrátiť, to return
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
vrátim
vrátime
vrátil – vrátila – vrátilo
2nd person
vrátiš
vrátite
3rd person
vráti
vrátia
e-type verbs (Class IV) (-ovať)
kupovať, to buy
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
kupujem
kupujeme
kupoval – kupovala – kupovalo
2nd person
kupuješ
kupujete
3rd person
kupuje
kupujú
e-type verbs (Class IV) (-nuť, typically preceded by a consonant)
zabudnúť, to forget
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
zabudnem
zabudneme
zabudol – zabudla – zabudlo
2nd person
zabudneš
zabudnete
3rd person
zabudne
zabudnú
ie-type verbs (Class V)
vidieť, to see
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
vidím
vidíme
videl – videla – videlo
2nd person
vidíš
vidíte
3rd person
vidí
vidia
ie-type verbs (Class III) (-nuť, typically preceded by a vowel)
minúť, to spend, miss
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
miniem
minieme
minul – minula – minulo
2nd person
minieš
miniete
3rd person
minie
minú
ie-type verbs (Class III) (-cť, -sť, -zť)
niesť, to carry
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
nesiem
nesieme
niesol – niesla – nieslo
2nd person
nesieš
nesiete
3rd person
nesie
nesú
ie-type verbs (Class II) (-nieť)
stučnieť, to carry (be fat)
Singular
Plural
Past tense
1st person
stučniem
stučnieme
stučnel – stučnela – stučnelo
2nd person
stučnieš
stučniete
3rd person
stučnie
stučnejú
Irregular verbs
byť, to be
jesť, to eat
vedieť, to know
1st singular
som
jem
viem
2nd singular
si
ješ
vieš
3rd singular
je
je
vie
1st plural
sme
jeme
vieme
2nd plural
ste
jete
viete
3rd plural
sú
jedia
vedia
Past tense
bol, bola, bolo
jedol, jedla, jedlo
vedel, vedela, vedelo
Adverbs[edit]
Adverbs are formed by replacing the adjectival ending with the ending -o or -e / -y. Sometimes both -o and -e are possible. Examples include the following:
vysoký (high) – vysoko (highly)
pekný (nice) – pekne (nicely)
priateľský (friendly) – priateľsky (in a friendly manner)
rýchly (fast) – rýchlo (quickly)
The comparative of adverbs is formed by replacing the adjectival ending with a comparative/superlative ending -(ej)ší or -(ej)šie, whence the superlative is formed with the prefix naj-. Examples include the following:
rýchly (fast) – rýchlejší (faster) – najrýchlejší (fastest): rýchlo (quickly) – rýchlejšie (more quickly) – najrýchlejšie (most quickly)
Prepositions[edit]
Each preposition is associated with one or more grammatical cases. The noun governed by a preposition must agree with the preposition in the given context. The preposition od always calls for the genitive case, but some prepositions such as po can call for different cases depending on the intended sense of the preposition.
from friends = od priateľov (genitive case of priatelia)
around the square = po námestí (locative case of námestie)
up to the square = po námestie (accusative case of námestie)
History[edit]
Main article: History of the Slovak language
Relationships to other languages[edit]
Slovak is a descendant of Proto-Slavic, itself a descendant of Proto-Indo-European. It is closely related to the other West Slavic languages, primarily to Czech and Polish. Czech also influenced the language in its later development. The highest number of borrowings in the old Slovak vocabulary come from Latin, German, Czech, Hungarian, Polish and Greek (in that order).[19] Recently, it is also influenced by English.
Czech[edit]
Although most dialects of Czech and Slovak are mutually intelligible (see Comparison of Slovak and Czech), eastern Slovak dialects are less intelligible to speakers of Czech and closer to Polish and East Slavic, and contact between speakers of Czech and speakers of the eastern dialects is limited.
Since the dissolution of Czechoslovakia it has been permitted to use Czech in TV broadcasting and during court proceedings (Administration Procedure Act 99/1963 Zb.). From 1999 to August 2009, the Minority Language Act 184/1999 Z.z., in its section (§) 6, contained the variously interpreted unclear provision saying that "When applying this act, it holds that the use of the Czech language fulfills the requirement of fundamental intelligibility with the state language"; the state language is Slovak and the Minority Language Act basically refers to municipalities with more than 20% ethnic minority population (no such Czech municipalities are found in Slovakia). Since 1 September 2009 (due to an amendment to the State Language Act 270/1995 Z.z.) a language "fundamentally intelligible with the state language" (i.e. the Czech language) may be used in contact with state offices and bodies by its native speakers, and documents written in it and issued by bodies in the Czech Republic are officially accepted. Regardless of its official status, Czech is used commonly both in Slovak mass media and in daily communication by Czech natives as an equal language.
Czech and Slovak have a long history of interaction and mutual influence well before the creation of Czechoslovakia in 1918, a state which existed until 1993. Literary Slovak shares significant orthographic features with Czech, as well as technical and professional terminology dating from the Czechoslovak period, but phonetic, grammatical, and vocabulary differences do exist.
Other Slavic languages[edit]
Slavic language varieties are relatively closely related, and have had a large degree of mutual influence, due to the complicated ethnopolitical history of their historic ranges. This is reflected in the many features Slovak shares with neighboring language varieties. Standard Slovak shares high degrees of mutual intelligibility with many Slavic varieties. Despite this closeness to other Slavic varieties, significant variation exists among Slovak dialects. In particular, eastern varieties differ significantly from the standard language, which is based on central and western varieties.
Eastern Slovak dialects have the greatest degree of mutual intelligibility with Polish of all the Slovak dialects, followed by Rusyn, but both Eastern Slovak and Rusyn lack familiar technical terminology and upper register expressions. Polish and Sorbian also differ quite considerably from Czech and Slovak in upper registers, but non-technical and lower register speech is readily intelligible. Some mutual intelligibility occurs with spoken Rusyn, Ukrainian, and even Russian (in this order), although their orthographies are based on the Cyrillic script.
English
Slovak
Czech
Polish
Rusyn
Ukrainian
Belarusian
Serbo-Croatian
Bulgarian
Slovenian
to buy
kupovať
kupovat
kupować
куповати (kupovaty)
купувати (kupuvaty)
купляць (kuplać)
kupovati
купува (kupuva)
kupovati
Welcome
Vitajte
Vítejte
Witajcie
Вітайте (vitajte)
Вітаю (vitaju)
Вітаю (vitaju)
Dobrodošli
добре дошли (dobre došli)
Dobrodošli
morning
ráno
ráno/jitro
rano/ranek
рано (rano)
рано/ранок (rano/ranok)
рана/ранак (rana/ranak)
jutro
утро (utro)
jutro
Thank you
Ďakujem
Děkuji
Dziękuję
Дякую (diakuju)
Дякую (diakuju)
Дзякуй (dziakuj)
Hvala
благодаря (blagodarja)
Hvala
How are you?
Ako sa máš?
Jak se máš?
Jak się masz?(colloquially "jak leci?")
Як ся маєш/маш?(jak sia maješ/maš?)
Як справи? (jak spravy?)
Як справы? (jak spravy?)
Kako si?
Как си? (Kak si?)
Kako se imaš?/Kako si?
Як ся маєш?(jak sia maješ?)
Як маесься?(jak majeśsia?)
Latin[edit]
bakuľa: baculum (stick)
kláštor: claustrum (monastery)
kostol: castellum (church)
košeľa: casula (shirt)
machuľa: macula (blot, stain)
škola: scola (school)
skriňa: skrinium (cupboard)
titul: titulus (title)
English[edit]
Sports:
športovať: to do sports
šport: sport
futbal: football (Association football; it can also mean American football, especially when specified as americký futbal)
ofsajd: offside
aut: out (football)
hokej: hockey
bodyček: body check (hockey)
Food:
hemendex: ham & eggs
kečup: ketchup
Clothing:
džínsy: jeans
legíny: leggings
sveter: sweater
tenisky: tennis shoes
Exclamations:
fajn: fine
super: super
okej: OK
German[edit]
Nouns:
brak: Brack (rubbish)
cech: Zeche (guild)
cieľ: Ziel (goal/target)
cín: Zinn (tin)
deka: Decke (blanket)
drôt: Draht (wire)
erb: erben (coat-of-arms, from "to inherit")
faloš: Falschheit (falsity)
farba: Farbe (color)
fašiangy: Fasching (carnival)
fialka: Veilchen (viola)
fľaša: Flasche (bottle)
fúra: Fuhre (load)
gróf: Graf (count)
hák: Haken (hook)
helma: Helm (helmet)
hoblík: Hobel (hand plane)
jarmok: Jahrmarkt (funfair)
knedľa: Knödel (dumpling)
minca: Münze (coin)
ortieľ: Urteil (verdict)
pančucha: Bundschuh (stocking)
plech: Blech (sheet metal)
regál: Regal (shelf)
ruksak: Rucksack (backpack)
rúra: Rohr (pipe)
rytier: Ritter (knight)
šachta: Schacht (mine shaft)
šindeľ: Schindel (roof shingle)
šnúra: Schnur (cord)
taška: Tasche (purse)
téma: Thema (topic)
vaňa: Badewanne (bathtub)
Vianoce: Weihnachten (Christmas)
vločka: Flocke (flake)
žumpa: Sumpf (cesspit)
Verbs:
študovať: studieren (to study (as in, to major in))
vinšovať: wünschen (to wish)
Note: colloquially, the standard term in Slovak is želať[20]
Greetings:
Servus is commonly used as a greeting or upon parting in Slovak-speaking regions and some German-speaking regions, particularly Austria. Papa is also commonly used upon parting in these regions. Both servus and papa are used in colloquial, informal conversation.
Hungarian[edit]
Hungarians and Slovaks have had language interaction ever since the settlement of Hungarians in the Carpathian area. Hungarians also adopted many words from various Slavic languages related to agriculture and administration, and a number of Hungarian loanwords are found in Slovak. Some examples are as follows:
"wicker whip": Slovak korbáč (the standard name for "whip" is bič and korbáč, itself originating from Turkish kırbaç, usually means only one particular type of it—the "wicker whip") – Hungarian korbács;
"dragon/kite": Slovak šarkan (rather rare, drak is far more common in this meaning; šarkan often means only "kite", especially a small one that is flown for fun and this term is far more common than drak in this meaning; for the "dragon kite", the term drak is still used almost exclusively)[clarification needed] – Hungarian sárkány.[21]
"rumour": Slovak chýr, Hungarian hír;
"camel": Slovak ťava, Hungarian teve;
"ditch": Slovak jarok, Hungarian árok;
"glass": Slovak pohár, Hungarian pohár;
Dialects[edit]
Slovak dialects
There are many Slovak dialects, which are divided into the following four basic groups:
Eastern Slovak dialects (in Spiš, Šariš, Zemplín and Abov)
Central Slovak dialects (in Liptov, Orava, Turiec, Tekov, Hont, Novohrad, Gemer and around Zvolen.)
Western Slovak dialects (in remaining Slovakia: Trenčín, Trnava, Nitra, Záhorie)
Lowland (dolnozemské) Slovak dialects (outside Slovakia in the Pannonian Plain in Serbian Vojvodina, and in southeastern Hungary, western Romania, and the Croatian part of Syrmia)
The fourth group of dialects is often not considered a separate group, but a subgroup of Central and Western Slovak dialects (see e.g. Štolc, 1968), but it is currently undergoing changes due to contact with surrounding languages (Serbo-Croatian, Romanian, and Hungarian) and long-time geographical separation from Slovakia (see the studies in Zborník Spolku vojvodinských slovakistov, e.g. Dudok, 1993).
The dialect groups differ mostly in phonology, vocabulary, and tonal inflection. Syntactic differences are minor. Central Slovak forms the basis of the present-day standard language. Not all dialects are fully mutually intelligible. It may be difficult for an inhabitant of the western Slovakia to understand a dialect from eastern Slovakia and the other way around.
Official usage of Slovak in Vojvodina, Serbia
The dialects are fragmented geographically, separated by numerous mountain ranges. The first three groups already existed in the 10th century. All of them are spoken by the Slovaks outside Slovakia, and central and western dialects form the basis of the lowland dialects (see above).
The western dialects contain features common with the Moravian dialects in the Czech Republic, the southern central dialects contain a few features common with South Slavic languages, and the eastern dialects a few features common with Polish and the East Slavonic languages (cf. Štolc, 1994). Lowland dialects share some words and areal features with the languages surrounding them (Serbo-Croatian, Hungarian, and Romanian).
Regulation[edit]
Standard Slovak (spisovná slovenčina) is defined by an Act of Parliament on the State Language of the Slovak Republic (language law). According to this law, Ministry of Culture approves and publishes the codified form of Slovak based on the judgment of specialised Slovak linguistic institutes and specialists in the area of the state language. This is traditionally Ľudovit Štúr Institute of Linguistics, which is part of the Slovak Academy of Sciences. In practice, Ministry of Culture publishes a document that specifies authoritative reference books for standard Slovak usage, which is called 'kodifikačná príručka' (codification handbook). Current regulation was published on 15 March 2021. There are four such publications:[22]
'Pravidlá slovenského pravopisu', 2013; (grammar rules)
'Krátky slovník slovenského jazyka', 2020; (dictionary)
'Pravidlá slovenskej výslovnosti', 2009; (pronunciation)
'Morfológia slovenského jazyka', 1966; (morphology)
See also[edit]
Slovak orthography
Slovak phonology
Slovak declension
List of language regulators for a list of languages with a regulated standard variety
References[edit]
^ "Autonomous Province of Vojvodina | Покрајинска влада". Archived from the original on 20 December 2017.
^ a b Slovak at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ "Autonomous Province of Vojvodina". Government of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. 2013. Retrieved 25 May 2017.
^ Pisarek, Walery (2009). The relationship between official and minority languages in Poland (PDF). 7th Annual Conference: The Relationship between Official Languages and Regional and Minority Languages in Europe. Dublin, Ireland: European Federation of National Institutions for Language. p. 18.
^ "Hungary needs to strengthen use of and access to minority languages". Strasbourg, France: Council of Europe. 14 December 2016. Retrieved 29 June 2020. The following languages have been given special protection under the European Charter [in Hungary]: Armenian, Beas, Bulgarian, Croatian, German, Greek, Polish, Romani, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian.
^ Wells, John C. (2008), Longman Pronunciation Dictionary (3rd ed.), Longman, ISBN 9781405881180
^ Roach, Peter (2011), Cambridge English Pronouncing Dictionary (18th ed.), Cambridge University Press, ISBN 9780521152532
^ "Czech language". www.britannica.com. Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 6 January 2015.
^ Golubović, Jelena; Gooskens, Charlotte (2015). "Mutual intelligibility between West and South Slavic languages". Russian Linguistics. 39 (3): 351–373. doi:10.1007/s11185-015-9150-9.
^ Swan, Oscar E. (2002). A grammar of contemporary Polish. Bloomington, Ind.: Slavica. p. 5. ISBN 0893572969. OCLC 50064627.
^ http://babel.mml.ox.ac.uk/naughton/lit_to_1918.html. University of Oxford
^ http://slavic.ucla.edu/czech/czech-republic/ Archived 2017-10-11 at the Wayback Machine. University of California, Los Angeles
^ Kráľ (1988), p. 55.
^ Pavlík (2004), pp. 93–95.
^ Bethin, Christina Y. (1998). Slavic Prosody: Language Change and Phonological Theory. Cambridge University Press. p. 149. ISBN 0521591481.
^ Hanulíková & Hamann (2010), p. 374.
^ a b Pavlík (2004), pp. 99, 106.
^ Jozef Ružička and co.: Morfológia slovenského jazyka, 1966
^ Kopecká, Martina; Laliková, Tatiana; Ondrejková, Renáta; Skladaná, Jana; Valentová, Iveta (2011). Staršia slovenská lexika v medzijazykových vzťahoch ) (PDF). Bratislava: Jazykovedný ústav Ľudovíta Štúra SAV. pp. 10–46. ISBN 978-80-224-1217-9.
^ Jesenská, Petra (2007). "Jazyková situácia na Slovensku v kontexte EÚ, s ohľadom na anglicizmy v slovenskej dennej tlači" (in Slovak). Retrieved 27 November 2019.
^ Imre, Pacsai. "Magyar Nyelvőr – Pacsai Imre: Magyar–szlovák kulturális és nyelvi kapcsolat jegyei..." www.c3.hu.
^ "MK-3620/2021-110/6659" (PDF). Ministry of Culture of the Slovak Republic (in Slovak). Ministry of Culture of the Slovak Republic. 15 March 2021. Retrieved 5 August 2021.
Bibliography[edit]
Dudok, D. (1993) Vznik a charakter slovenských nárečí v juhoslovanskej Vojvodine [The emergence and character of the Slovak dialects in Yugoslav Vojvodina]. Zborník spolku vojvodinských slovakistov 15. Nový Sad: Spolok vojvodinských slovakistov, pp. 19–29.
Hanulíková, Adriana; Hamann, Silke (2010), "Slovak" (PDF), Journal of the International Phonetic Association, 40 (3): 373–378, doi:10.1017/S0025100310000162
Kráľ, Ábel (1988), Pravidlá slovenskej výslovnosti, Bratislava: Slovenské pedagogické nakladateľstvo
Musilová, K. and Sokolová, M. (2004) Funkčnost česko-slovenských kontaktových jevů v současnosti [The functionality of Czech-Slovak contact phenomena in the present-time]. In Fiala, J. and Machala, L. (eds.) Studia Moravica I (AUPO, Facultas Philosophica Moravica 1). Olomouc: Univerzita Palackého v Olomouci, pp. 133–146.
Nábělková, M. (2003) Súčasné kontexty slovensko-českej a česko-slovenskej medzijazykovosti [Contemporary contexts of the Slovak-Czech and Czech-Slovak interlinguality]. In Pospíšil, I. – Zelenka, M. (eds.) Česko-slovenské vztahy v slovanských a středoevropských souvislostech (meziliterárnost a areál). Brno: ÚS FF MU, pp. 89–122.
Nábělková, M. (2006) V čom bližšie, v čom ďalej... Spisovná slovenčina vo vzťahu k spisovnej češtine a k obecnej češtine [In what closer, in what further... Standard Slovak in relation to Standard Czech and Common Czech]. In Gladkova, H. and Cvrček, V. (eds.) Sociální aspekty spisovných jazyků slovanských. Praha: Euroslavica, pp. 93–106.
Nábělková, M. (2007) Closely related languages in contact: Czech, Slovak, "Czechoslovak". International Journal of the Sociology of Language 183, pp. 53–73.
Nábělková, M. (2008) Slovenčina a čeština v kontakte: Pokračovanie príbehu. [Slovak and Czech in Contact: Continuation of the Story]. Bratislava/Praha: Veda/Filozofická fakulta Univerzity Karlovy. 364 pp., ISBN 978-80-224-1060-1
Pavlík, Radoslav (2004), Bosák, Ján; Petrufová, Magdaléna (eds.), "Slovenské hlásky a medzinárodná fonetická abeceda" [Slovak Speech Sounds and the International Phonetic Alphabet] (PDF), Jazykovedný časopis [The Linguistic Journal] (in Slovak), Bratislava: Slovak Academic Press, spol. s r. o. (55/2): 87–109, ISSN 0021-5597
Sloboda, M. (2004) Slovensko-česká (semi)komunikace a vzájemná (ne)srozumitelnost [Slovak-Czech (semi)communication and the mutual (un)intelligibility]. Čeština doma a ve světě XII, No. 3–4, pp. 208–220.
Sokolová, M. (1995) České kontaktové javy v slovenčine [Czech contact phenomena in Slovak]. In Ondrejovič, S. and Šimková, M. (eds.) Sociolingvistické aspekty výskumu súčasnej slovenčiny (Sociolinguistica Slovaca 1). Bratislava: Veda, pp. 188–206.
Štolc, Jozef (1968) Reč Slovákov v Juhoslávii I.: Zvuková a gramatická stavba [The speech of the Slovaks in Yugoslavia: phonological and grammatical structure]. Bratislava: Vydavateľstvo Slovenskej akadémie vied.
Štolc, Jozef (1994) Slovenská dialektológia [Slovak dialectology]. Ed. I. Ripka. Bratislava: Veda.
Further reading[edit]
Mistrík, Jozef (1988) [First published 1982], A Grammar of Contemporary Slovak (2nd ed.), Bratislava: Slovenské pedagogické nakladateľstvo
Pauliny, Eugen; Ru̇žička, Jozef; Štolc, Jozef (1968), Slovenská gramatika, Slovenské pedagogické nakladateľstvo
Short, David (2002), "Slovak", in Comrie, Bernard; Corbett, Greville G. (eds.), The Slavonic Languages, London and New York: Routledge, pp. 533–592, ISBN 9780415280785
External links[edit]
 Slovak  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Slovak.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Slovak language.
Ľ. Štúr Institute of Linguistics – Slovak Academy of Sciences
Slovak National Corpus
Slovak Monolingual Dictionaries
Slovake.eu – Online Language Course
Online Translation Dictionaries
E-Slovak – Online Language Course
Slovak Language Lessons for Beginners
vteSlovakia articlesHistory
Pannonia
Marcomannia
Slavs
West Slavs
Samo
Samo's Empire
Principality of Nitra
Great Moravia
Balaton
Principality of Hungary (895–1000)
High Medieval Kingdom of Hungary (1000–1301)
Late Medieval Kingdom of Hungary (1301–1526)
Matthew III Csák
Province of Budin (1541–1686)
Principality of Transylvania (1570–1711)
Kingdom of Hungary (1526–1867)
Austro-Hungarian Monarchy (1867–1918)
Upper Hungary
Slovak Uprising
Czechoslovakia
Washington Declaration
First Czechoslovak Republic (1918–1938)
Slovak Soviet Republic (1919)
Munich Betrayal
Second Czechoslovak Republic (1938–1939)
Autonomous Land of Slovakia (1938–1939)
Slovak Republic (1939–1945)
Slovak National Uprising
Iron Curtain
Third Czechoslovak Republic (1945–1948)
Czechoslovak coup d'état
Fourth Czechoslovak Republic (1948–1960)
Czechoslovak Socialist Republic (1960–1990)
Prague Spring
Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
Slovak Socialist Republic (1969–1990)
Velvet Revolution
Czech and Slovak Federative Republic (1990–1992)
Slovak Republic (1990–1992)
Velvet Divorce
Geography
Carpathians
Cities and towns
Districts
Islands
Municipalities
National parks
Protected areas
Regions
Rivers
Tourism regions
Traditional regions
Wildlife
World Heritage Sites (UNESCO)
Politics
Constitution
Elections
Foreign relations
Government
Human rights
LGBT
Law enforcement
Military
National Council (parliament)
Political parties
President
Prime Minister
Economy
Banks
Central bank
Energy
Euro (currency)
Privatisation
Stock exchange
"Tatra Tiger"
Telecommunications
Tourism
Transport
Society
Crime
Demographics
Slovaks
list
Hungarians
Education
Healthcare
Language
Public holidays
Remembrance days
Culture
Anthem
Cinema
Coat of arms
Cuisine
Flag
Literature
Music
Newspapers
Radio
Religion
Television
Shepherd's axe
Sport
Outline
Category
Portal
vteLanguages of SlovakiaOfficial language
Slovak
Minority languages
Carpathian Romani
Rusyn
Sign languages
Slovak Sign Language
 Category
vteLanguages of the Czech RepublicOfficial language
Czech
Minority languages
Belarusian
Croatian
German
Hungarian
Polish
Romany
Slovak
Ukrainian
Vietnamese
Sign languages
Czech Sign Language
vteLanguages of HungaryOfficial language(s)
Hungarian
Minority languages
Croatian
German
Greek
Hungarian Sign Language
Romani
Romanian
Serbian
Slovak
Slovene
Extinct languages
Cuman
Jassic
Kipchak
Pecheneg
See Also: Minority languages of Hungary
vte Languages of SerbiaOfficial language
Serbian
Minority languages
Albanian
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Croatian
Hungarian
Macedonian
Slovak
Romani
Romanian
Rusyn
Sign languages
Yugoslav Sign Language
vteSlavic languagesHistory
Proto-Balto-Slavic
Up to Proto-Slavic
Proto-Slavic (Accent)
Old Church Slavonic
Modern languages
Cyril and Methodius
Cyrillic script
Glagolitic script
East Slavic
Belarusian
Simple speech
Old East Slavic
Old Novgorodian
Russian
dialects
Alaskan Russian
Doukhobor Russian
Ruthenian
Ukrainian
dialects
Canadian Ukrainian
Simple speech
South SlavicEastern
Bulgarian
Church Slavonic
Macedonian
Transitional
Torlakian
Western [ru]
Alpine Slavic
Serbo-Croatian
Bosnian
Croatian
Montenegrin
Serbian
Slovene
West SlavicCzech–Slovak
Czech
Biblical Czech
Czechoslovak
Knaanic
Moravian
Slovak
Camaldolese Slovak
Eastern Slovak
Lechitic
Silesian
Polish
dialects
Old Polish
Middle Polish
Pomeranian
Kashubian
Slovincian
West Lechitic
Marcho-Magdeburgian
Mecklenburgian
Rani
Polabian
Sorbian
Upper Sorbian
Lower Sorbian
Transitional
Schleifer
Microlanguages and dialectsEast Slavic
(Carpathian) Rusyn
Lemko
Pannonian Rusyn
Podlachian
West Polesian
South Slavic
Banat Bulgarian
Bunjevac
Burgenland Croatian
Chakavian
Kajkavian
Pomak
Prekmurje Slovene
Resian
Shtokavian
Slavic dialects of Greece
Slavomolisano
West Slavic
Eastern Slovak
Lach
Masurian
Podhale
Silesian
Cieszyn Silesian
Mixed languages
Balachka
20th century Bohemian Romani
Kyakhta Russian–Chinese Pidgin
Mednyj Aleut
Ponaschemu
Quelia
Romano-Serbian
Runglish
Russenorsk
Solombala English
Surzhyk
Taimyr Pidgin Russian
Trasianka
Constructedlanguages
Pan-Slavic language
Interslavic
Lydnevi
Army Slavic
Iazychie
Slavonic-Serbian
Historicalphonology
Slavic first palatalization
Slavic second palatalization
Slavic liquid metathesis and pleophony
Monophthongization
Dybo's law
Havlík's law
Hirt's law
Illič-Svityč's law
Ivšić's law
Meillet's law
Pedersen's law
Ruki sound law
Van Wijk's law
Winter's law
Italics indicate extinct languages.
Portals: Languages Slovakia
Authority control: National 
Spain
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Slovak_language&oldid=1171371251"
Categories: Slovak languageLanguages of SlovakiaLanguages of the Czech RepublicLanguages of HungaryLanguages of SerbiaSubject–verb–object languagesWest Slavic languagesSlavic languages written in Latin scriptHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 25Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 Slovak-language sources (sk)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from April 2020Articles containing Slovak-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing Polish-language textArticles containing Czech-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2020Articles containing Latin-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2012Articles containing Rusyn-language textArticles containing Ukrainian-language textArticles containing Belarusian-language textArticles containing Serbo-Croatian-language textArticles containing Bulgarian-language textArticles containing Slovene-language textArticles containing German-language textArticles containing Turkish-language textArticles containing Hungarian-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from February 2020Commons category link is on WikidataArticles with BNE identifiersArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 20 August 2023, at 18:41 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width