Legal:Visual identity guidelines - Wikimedia Foundation Governance Wiki
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
About Wikimedia
HomeOfficial websiteContact usWikimedia NewsMovement blogCommunity calendarQuestions for Wikimedia?
Support Wikimedia
DonateVolunteeringWikipedia Store
Corporate
BylawsValuesPoliciesResolutionsBoard meetingsMovement affiliates
Documentation
Annual ReportFinancial reports and Form 990Fundraising reportsInstitutional knowledgeLegalSecurity
Wiki
Give feedbackBabelHelpRecent changes
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
 EnglishLog in
Personal tools
 Log in
Legal:Visual identity guidelines
Add languages
Add links
LegalDiscussion
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadView sourceView history
General
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
From Wikimedia Foundation Governance Wiki
(Redirected from Wikimedia visual identity guidelines)
Identity guidelines
2
Why is it important to have guidelines?
Wikipedia is a precious, shared resource, used 
around the world by millions of people every day. 
We created these guidelines to help authorized 
re-users of the Wikimedia Foundation’s official 
marks, including Wikipedia, represent our identity 
in a way that is consistent with the quality, impact, 
and importance of our projects.
The Wikimedia Foundation marks represent much 
of what our projects and our movement stands for: 
bold ideas, global collaboration, typography and 
text, integrity and quality. We ask that everyone 
who has permission to use these marks keep those 
values in mind. Using these marks well is a serious 
responsibility.
3
The identity and its elements
About the Wikipedia identity
The elements of our identity
The unified mark
The puzzle globe
The wordmark
The puzzle icon
The ‘W’ icon
The Wikimedia Foundation mark
4
About the Wikipedia identity ^
The distinctive Wikipedia identity has evolved over 
the years since it was introduced in 2003 following 
a volunteer competition to find a distinctive mark to 
represent Wikipedia. User Paul Stansifer proposed 
the original design of the globe in 2003, and shortly 
afterwards fellow Wikipedian David Friedland made 
considerable improvements to its styling and puzzle 
pieces.
Since it was originally introduced, the puzzle globe 
has undergone a series of small changes — mostly 
adjustments to correct the choice of other characters 
representing the first character of the word ‘Wikipedia’ 
in various languages. At one point the puzzle globe 
included a Klingon alphabet character. In May 2010, the 
Wikimedia Foundation introduced a revised version of the 
Wikipedia puzzle globe that included corrected characters 
and a mapping of characters on the reverse of the puzzle 
globe, all based on a full 3D rendering of the puzzle globe 
object.
The puzzle globe typically accompanies the Wikipedia 
wordmark, originally set in Hoefler, but later updated 
to Linux Libertine, an opensource typeface, to facilitate 
easier localization of the wordmark in new language 
editions of the project. Together, we refer to this as the
unified mark. 
Online, at wikipedia.org, the wordmark always includes 
a descriptor ‘The Free Encyclopedia,’ which is translated 
into the language of each project. 
You can read more about the history of the marks here,
Wikimedia official marks/About the official Marks
and at Wikipedia:Wikipedia logos
5
The elements of our identity ^
Over time, we’ve expanded the elements that make up 
our visual identity.
We began with two simple elements, the puzzle globe 
and the wordmark, which together constitute the unified 
mark. Two additional elements, the puzzle icon and the 
W icon, have been proposed to serve specific situations 
— including digital implementations and design situations 
with space constraints.
Each element of the Wikipedia identity has been carefully 
designed to function both independently and when 
united, collectively echoing the core identity of Wikipedia.
unified mark
puzzle icon
W icon
--- puzzle globe
--- wordmark
--- descriptor
6
The unified mark ^
Traditionally the unified mark is used to identify Wikipedia 
in situations where the puzzle globe alone may not be 
sufficient to represent the project. 
The wordmark is the most desirable variant of the 
official marks for clearly communicating the presence of 
Wikipedia, whether through the indication of Wikipedia’s 
actual content, the presence of Wikipedia volunteers and 
supporters, or to indicate the participation or partnership 
of Wikipedia with an institution or project. 
In situations where the classic top and bottom 
configuration of the unified mark are not conventional, the 
horizontal version can be used.
vertical version
horizontal version
construction of vertical version
construction of horizontal version
7
The puzzle globe ^
The puzzle globe is a fully 3D object rendered as a flat 
image for design purposes. The ‘hero’ rendering of the 
puzzle globe is the digital photograph of the 3D object 
that most closely approximates the original puzzle globe 
shape
The puzzle globe does not reflect all of the languages 
and scripts of Wikipedia. The projects are available in 
over 270 languages. The puzzle globe reflects roughly 
61 different scripts. There are no specific parameters for 
which languages appear in the puzzle globe; however, 
only languages or scripts with corresponding Wikipedia 
projects are included.
The hero version of the puzzle globe shows characters 
from 18 language sets:
Armenian
Khmer
Japanese (Katakana)
Ge’ez
Bengali
Greek
Latin
Arabic
Devanagari
Traditional Chinese
Cyrillic
Korean
Georgian
Kannada
Hebrew
Thai
Tibetan
Tamil
There is a full list of characters and languages reflected in the globe.
puzzle globe
puzzle globe on a saturated background
8
The Wikipedia Wordmark ^
The distinctive wordmark, with larger case W and A 
characters, has been widely translated for other language 
variants since Wikipedia started in 2001. 
The wordmark alone is the most identifiable and clearly 
understood version of all of the official marks representing 
Wikipedia. When both the puzzle globe and wordmark 
(the unified mark) cannot be used, it is preferable to use 
the Wikipedia wordmark to clearly identify Wikipedia. 
wordmark
positive version
positive version in frame on saturated field
reversed version in frame
reversed version on low contrast field
construction of wordmark in frame
9
The Puzzle Icon ^
The Wikipedia puzzle icon is a distinctive graphic 
element extracted directly from the original 3D puzzle 
globe model. The icon is intended to be used by groups 
or organizations that affiliate with Wikipedia, but do 
not officially represent the projects or the Wikimedia 
Foundation. 
The puzzle icon is the least recognizable of the Wikipedia 
identifiers, and whenever possible should be used in 
conjunction with a non-stylized title, ‘Wikipedia.’ 
puzzle icon for affiliates
positive version on saturated background
10
The ‘W’ Icon ^
The Wikipedia ‘W’ icon is a distinctive graphic element 
derived from the W of Wikipedia, set in the font Hoefler.
The ‘W’ is intended to evoke the Wikipedia brand in 
applications where limited space, aesthetics, or other 
constraints prevent the use of the Wikipedia puzzle globe 
and stylized text. Common usages might include mobile 
devices, web browser bookmark bars, and small branded 
merchandise.
the 'W'
maximum size
.75in (20mm, 56px)
combined with various framing devices
11
The Wikimedia Foundation Mark ^
Originally designed in 2005 by Neolux, the mark 
that identifies the Wikimedia Foundation consists of a 
circular logo and a wordmark. The mark is intended to signify a 
character holding an open book. The font Montserrat is used to 
construct both the title and the descriptor of the mark.
recommended vertical version
recommended horizontal version
construction
construction
examples of localization
example
12
Using the Wikipedia identity
Protecting our marks
Placement of legal attributes
Minimum sizes
Clear space
Color values
Do not...
Examples of usage
Wikipedia and Wikimedia
3D puzzle globe model
Co-branding
Inventory of assets
13
Protecting our marks ^
The official marks of the Wikimedia Foundation 
are registered around the world. Our identity is a 
precious resource we need to protect from misuse and 
commercialization.
In the United States, the marks of most of our 
projects, including Wikipedia, as well as the Wikimedia 
Foundation, are registered trademarks, and as such 
authorized reusers in the United States must include the 
® logo to indicate appropriate ownership. Check with the Wikimedia Foundation for more information about indicating registration or trademark ownership in other countries and territories.
The registration mark is an important way to indicate that 
our official marks are owned, registered, and maintained 
by a responsible organization. In some cases we claim 
trademark over the projects and use the TM designator 
instead of the ® designator. 
Whenever possible, the registered marks must also 
include a trademark legend. The trademark legend is a 
sentence at the footer of a page (or in a section reserved 
for legal notices), or other prominent location, which 
states: “Wikipedia and its associated marks are official 
trademarks of the Wikimedia Foundation in the United 
States and other countries. These marks are being used 
under license by the Wikimedia Foundation. [This project] 
is not endorsed by or affiliated with the Wikimedia Foundation.” In rare 
circumstances, the registration mark may be omitted 
but only with the approval of the Foundation’s legal 
department.
Placement of legal attributes ^
Note the specific placement of the registration mark ® on 
the bottom right side of the official marks. The registration 
mark only needs to appear once in a document or 
product. 
Legal attributes of other Wikimedia projects
Other Wikimedia projects may be protected in the territory 
where you have permission to use the official marks. 
Check with the Wikimedia Foundation to determine which 
marks require a registration designation.
registered unified mark
registered puzzle globe
registered wordmarks
14
Minimum sizes ^
The official marks of the Wikimedia Foundation have 
been designed and presented to work at a minimum size 
specification. Particularly with the Wikipedia puzzle globe, 
detail and texture are lost when the mark is reproduced at 
less than 20mm, 56px, or .75 inches. Never reproduce 
the puzzle globe or wordmark in sizes less than the 
minimums specified here.
In cases where representation of Wikipedia is necessary 
at less than the minimum sizes, the Wikipedia ‘W’ 
mark should be used. In cases where representation of 
Wikimedia or the Wikimedia Foundation is necessary, the 
red/green/blue icon should be used.
unified mark
minimum size
.75in (20mm, 56px)
puzzle globe
minimum size
.625in (16mm, 45px)
wordmark positive version
minimum size
.75in (20mm, 56px)
wordmark reversed version in frame
minimum size
.75in (20mm, 56px)
puzzle icon
minimum size
.75in (20mm, 56px)
foundation mark
minimum size
.5in (12mm, 36px)
15
Clear space ^
A minimum space area must be observed around the 
official marks in all instances. Clear space ensures that 
logos and marks can be differentiated from other marks 
or design elements, and provides easier and clearer 
communication of our projects, our organization, and the 
related knowledge from our projects. 
16
Clear space, continued
17
Color values ^
The color palette of the Wikipedia identity is simple: black and shades 
of grey to white.
CMYK
RGB
HEX
black
0/0/0/100
0/0/0
000000
75%
0/0/0/75
99/100/102
636466
50%
0/0/0/50
147/149/152
939598
25%
0/0/0/75
199/200/202
C7C8CA
Black is the correct color for all versions of the wordmark.
In situations where the wordmark appears on a color field, the reversed version framed in black is preferred.
For special situations, it is permissable to reverse the wordmark from 75% black.
Minimum value for reverse of the wordmark is 50% black.
On fields with a color value of 25% grey or lighter, the wordmark should appear in black.
18
Do not... ^
...alter the Wikipedia or related project identities nor any of their 
elements.
Different colors
Do not change the logo colors.
Different font
Do not substitute or alter the font of the wordmark beneath the globe.
Distortion
Do not distort or warp any of the identity elements.
Added element
Do not add decorative shapes or borders to the accepted mark.
Complex background
Do not place the logo on a colored, textured, or image background. The mark is only intended to go on white backgrounds.
19
Use of the puzzle globe 3D model ^
The puzzle globe 3D model is an important asset related to the Wikipedia puzzle globe logo. The 3D file is provided to allow Wikimedians to create 3D printed models for community outreach purposes, under the guidelines below:
Size and Format
You may not use the 3D model to create new 2D renderings or animations.
If you need a 2D rendering, use one of the ones provided.
You may 3D print the globe in any size.
The model itself may not be altered, sliced, or rearranged.
There should be no additions to the globe, except that...
You may create a base, but please do not integrate with the globe. The globe should remain whole, and not attached.
You may add a ring as a way to suspend the globe on a pendant or keychain.
Colors
Print material must be silver (if metal), very light grey, or white, and, if possible, with black letters.
Do not print the globe in black, colors, or colored metals.
The use of the 3D file and model is subject to the same restrictions as the Wikipedia globe in the trademark policy.
20
Wikipedia and Wikimedia Foundation co-branding ^
Re-users of the official identities may face situations 
where the Wikipedia and Wikimedia Foundation identities are to 
appear side by side. A certain proportion and amount 
of space should be maintained when the Wikipedia and 
Wikimedia Foundation marks are displayed side-by-side.
The Wikipedia width and Wikimedia Foundation height must be 
identical to one another. The minimum clear space 
between them must be at least half of the width of the 
puzzle mark.
The marks must be featured on a white background and 
must bottom align. 
In situations where the two marks or identities (or 
additional Wikimedia project identities) appear on the 
same page, but not side by side, then these guidelines 
may not apply (for example, when the Wikimedia Foundation identity 
is being used to brand or indicate an official publication 
about Wikipedia).
placement according to principle of equal emphasis
21
Co-branding ^
These examples of co-branding indicate a general 
approach to presenting our official marks alongside 
those of other organizations. The general rule of ‘equal 
emphasis’ should apply. Other official marks should 
appear in the same proportion as the Wikimedia Foundation or 
Wikipedia marks. When one organization’s marks 
appear without color, then the Wikimedia Foundation or Wikipedia 
marks should also not be in color. 
In situations where re-users are indicating Wikimedia Foundation’s 
sponsorship of a project, and/or a grant or funding, 
only the Wikimedia Foundation mark should be 
used.  Wikipedia is a project of the Wikimedia 
Foundation.  The Wikimedia Foundation is the 
organization that may sponsor an initiative, provide 
a grant, or lend support to another organization or 
project.
Co-branded use of the Wikimedia Foundation marks, 
including the Wikipedia mark, require the approval of 
the Wikimedia Foundation.
placement according to the principle of equal emphasis
 
 
 
Retrieved from "https://foundation.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Legal:Visual_identity_guidelines&oldid=277019"
Category: Wikimedia visual identityHidden category: Maintained by Communications department
 This page was last edited on 11 August 2023, at 13:39.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Privacy policy
About Wikimedia Foundation Governance Wiki
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width