Transdisciplinarity Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Transdisciplinarity16,489 FollowersRecent papers in TransdisciplinarityTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleSpecial issue on Interdisciplinary Integration: The real grand challenge for the life sciences? Introduction: Grand Challenges and small stepsAbstract This collection addresses two different audiences: 1) historians and philosophers of the life sciences reflecting on collaborations across disciplines, especially as regards defining and addressing Grand Challenges; 2)... moreAbstractThis collection addresses two different audiences: 1) historians and philosophers of the life sciences reflecting on collaborations across disciplines, especially as regards defining and addressing Grand Challenges; 2) researchers and other stakeholders involved in cross-disciplinary collaborations aimed at tackling Grand Challenges in the life and medical sciences. The essays collected here offer ideas and resources both for the study and for the practice of goal-driven cross-disciplinary research in the life and medical sciences. We organise this introduction in three sections. The first section provides some background and context. The second motivates our take on this topic and then outlines the central ideas of each paper. The third section highlights the specificity and significance of this approach by considering: a) how this collection departs from existing literature on inter- and trans-disciplinarity, b) what is characteristic about this approach, and c) what role this suggests for the history and philosophy of the life sciences in addressing Grand Challenges. KeywordsGrand Challenges, transdisciplinarity, interdisciplinary integration, translational research, constructive modesty, philosophy of science in practice.Highlights•Research practices demanded by Grand Challenges raise philosophical questions.•Grand Challenges require knowledge integration and its translation in practice.•We summarize the main arguments and theses of the essays collected.•Constructive modesty is a flexible, modular approach to transdisciplinary theory. •Devolutionist strategies for integration demand further work on responsible research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giovanni De Grandis and +1Sophia Efstathiou•  5  Interdisciplinarity, History and Philosophy of Biology, Transdisciplinarity, Social Studies Of ScienceRe-thinking new knowledge production: A literature review and a research agendaSave to LibraryDownloadby Laurens K Hessels•  3  Science Policy, Interdisciplinarity, TransdisciplinarityEncuentros sobre InterdisciplinaSe trata del primer libro publicado en español que reúne las traducciones de artpiculos y capítulos de autores anglosajones referentes en la temática interdisciplinaria junto con los aportes de autores nacionales. Se constituye en un... moreSe trata del primer libro publicado en español que reúne las traducciones de artpiculos y capítulos de autores anglosajones referentes enla temática interdisciplinaria junto con los aportes de autores nacionales. Se constituye en un material relevante para la investigaciponcomo para la enseñanza de estos temas. El prólogo elaborado por la Dr.a Judith Sutz, considera que: 'El libro que la lectora o el lectortiene en sus manos se ocupa de una forma particular de abordar la producción de conocimiento denominada interdisciplina. El términoevoca encuentros, lo que tomado en sentido literal implica también dimensión colectiva; evoca igualmente tomar y dar, o fertilizacióncruzada; el pasar de un lado a otro no es ajeno a lo que sugiere. Ninguno de estos aspectos parece, a priori, plantear mayoresdificultades, aunque sin duda esa es una apreciación equivocada. «Lo interdisciplinario» como problema se ha instalado desde hace yaalgún tiempo en la reflexión sobre producción de conocimiento a través de múltiples dimensiones que incluyen cuestiones de definición—para no nombrar de la misma manera a prácticas diversas— y cuestiones de política —¿cómo se promueve la interdisciplina, cómo sela apoya, cómo se la evalúa?—. Este libro da cuenta de respuestas plurales que a preguntas como estas han dado referentesinternacionales en el tema y de reflexiones locales hechas desde prácticas de investigación interdisciplinarias. Naturalmente, quien estéconsiderando leerlo se preguntará, antes que nada, por qué su tema es importante o simplemente interesante. Quizá alcance, a modo derespuesta, pensar que de lo que se trata es de cómo se puede lograr aprehender mejor la complejidad e inherente multiplicidad defactores causales, trayectorias posibles, intereses en juego y consecuencias probables de fenómenos y problemas determinantes de lasociedad actual'.Este material está disponible solamente en papel, si desea recibir una copia por favor escribir a biancav@ei.udelar.edu.uySave to LibraryDownloadby Bianca Vienni Baptista and +4Repetto, LorenaVerónica Fernández DamonteClara von SandenAndrea Lorieto•  16  Interdisciplinarity, Transdisciplinarity, Philosophy of Transdisciplinarity, Interdisciplinary Higher EducationTransdisciplinarity and Creative Inquiry in Transformative Education: Researching the Research DegreeThis chapter discusses both theoretical and practical dimensions of transdisciplinary education that fosters the stated aim of doctoral studies, namely the capacity to do original research. Despite this definition, few if any doctoral... moreThis chapter discusses both theoretical and practical dimensions of transdisciplinary education that fosters the stated aim of doctoral studies, namely the capacity to do original  research. Despite this definition, few if any doctoral programs explicitly address the creative dimension of scholarship. Here I outline the design of a transdisciplinary Ph.D. program (started in 2005) that places creativity at the heart of doctoral studies. The doctoral degree is also explicitly transdisciplinary, addressing issues from the perspective of pertinent knowledge rather than the framework provide by a single discipline.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alfonso Montuori•  14  Epistemology, Teaching and Learning, Education, Scholarship of Teaching and LearningDİSİPLİNLER ÖTESİ YAKLAŞIMLAR IŞIĞINDA MİMARLIK/TASARIM EĞİTİMİÇalışma, dijital çağın yeniliklerini ve disiplinler ötesi yaklaşımların mimarlık eğitimine yansımalarını göz önünde bulundurarak bu konular doğrultusunda önerilen projeler ve içeriklerini ele almaktadır. Çalışmanın amacı; disiplinler... moreÇalışma, dijital çağın yeniliklerini ve disiplinler ötesi yaklaşımların mimarlık eğitimine yansımalarını göz önünde bulundurarak bu konular doğrultusunda önerilen projeler ve içeriklerini ele almaktadır.Çalışmanın amacı; disiplinler arası ilişkiler, her geçen gün gelişen teknoloji ve bu teknolojinin getirilerinden faydalanmak, aynı zamanda sadece teknolojik anlamda çağa ayak uydurmakla kalmayıp, toplumsal konularda da mevcut olguları ya da konuları barındırabilecek, öğrencilerde hassasiyet ve farkındalığı sağlamaya katkıda bulunacak ders önerilerinde bulunarak mimarlık/tasarım eğitiminde günceli yakalamaktır. Çalışmanın yöntemini literatür incelemesi oluşturmaktadır.Çalışma ile önerilen ders içerikleri kapsamında; hem çağın ve teknolojinin avantajlarını projelerinde kullanabilecek hem de günümüzde disiplinler ötesi çalışma alanlarına giren kadın çalışmaları, engelsiz tasarım ve çocuk güvenliği gibi güncel-toplumsal konulara karşı duyarlı olacak yeterlik seviyesinde tasarımcılar yetiştirmeye katkı sağlaması öngörülen proje konuları ortaya konulmuştur. Anahtar sözcükler: Dijital Çağ, Toplumsal Farkındalık, Multidisipliner, Disiplinler Ötesi, EğitimSave to LibraryDownloadby İpek Yıldırım•  4  Education, Transdisciplinarity, Multidisciplinary, Dijital ÇağBrussels’ urban inclusion as a design matter (Designing Urban Inclusion-Metrolab Brussels Master Class I, p.11-17)Save to LibraryDownloadby Metrolab Brussels and +1Mathieu Berger•  6  Interdisciplinarity, Inclusive Design, Transdisciplinarity, Regional Planning/DevelopmentInflection Journal Vol.3 CALL FOR PAPERSCall for Papers Inflection Journal Vol. 3 - New Order - Transdisciplinarity in Architectural PracticeVol. 3 EditorsCourtney Foote, John Gatip and Jillian RaleighSave to LibraryDownloadby John Gatip and +1Courtney  Foote•  4  Design, Architecture, Transdisciplinarity, TRANSDISCIPLINARY STUDIES"I care for them." On artistic ethics in research.Chapter in the edited publication "If you are not there, where are you? Mapping the Experience of Absence Seizures Through Art.", co-edited by Henny Dörr and myself.Save to LibraryDownloadby Falk Hübner•  13  Neurology, Ethics, Research Ethics, Arts EducationA conceptual framework for addressing complexity and unfolding transition dynamics when developing sustainable adaptation strategies in urban water managementTo achieve a successful and sustainable adaptation to climate change we need to transform the way we think about change. Much water management research has focused on technical innovation with a range of new solutions developed to achieve... moreTo achieve a successful and sustainable adaptation to climate change we need to transform the way we think about change. Much water management research has focused on technical innovation with a range of new solutions developed to achieve a ‘more sustainable and integrated urban water management cycle’. But Danish municipalities and utility companies are struggling to bring such solutions into practice. ‘Green infrastructure’, for example, requires the consideration of a larger range of aspects related to the urban context than the traditional urban water system optimization. There is the need for standardized methods and guidelines to organize transdisciplinary processes where different types of knowledge and perspectives are taken into account. On the basis of the macro–meso–micro pattern inspired by complexity science and transition theory, we developed a conceptual framework to organize processes addressing the complexity characterizing urban water management in the context of c...Save to LibraryDownloadby Marina Jensen•  12  Engineering, Climate Change, Complexity Theory, Climate Change AdaptationSound Art, Biofeedback and Sensing Virtual RealityBorn in 1964, Pierre Jolivet aka Paciic 231 is a French artist living in Ireland. He has been composing music for a long time, has released a huge number of pieces and recordings and adopted a wide, ever-changing and evolving range of... moreBorn in 1964, Pierre Jolivet aka Paciic 231 is a French artist living in Ireland. He has been composing music for a long time, has released a huge number of pieces and recordings and adopted a wide, ever-changing and evolving range of sub-genres. He found the roots of his early works in noise and industrial sounds, never leaving a certain inspiration in noise structures. A few years ago, he began to make more experiments with sound generators and field recordings of various kinds as well as sensor technology. Discovering the magic of abstract arrangements, self-generated processed art and electronic sound collages also led him to co-operate with other artists such as Lieutenant Caramel, Vox Populi! or Rapoon. He’s also a performer and presented his multimedia artwork in MACBA (Barcelona) or the Beirut Art Center (Lebanon).Save to LibraryDownloadby Pierre Jolivet Ph.D.•  5  Augmented Reality, Transdisciplinarity, Sound Art, InstallationEveryday Experts: How people's knowledge can transform the food systemSave to LibraryDownloadby Tom Wakeford•  13  Sociology, Social Movements, Participatory Research, Participatory Action ResearchCOMPETENCIAS PARA LA INGENIERÍA GLOBAL. BALANCE DE LA EXPERIENCIA TRANSDISCIPLINAR DESARROLLADA EN LA UNIVERSIDAD POLITÉCNICA DE CATALUNYA.El presente artículo presenta el balance de la experiencia desarrollada en la Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingeniería de Caminos, Canales y Puertos. Universidad Politécnica de Cataluña, respecto al desarrollo de una asignatura en la que se... moreEl presente artículo presenta el balance de la experiencia desarrollada en la Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingeniería de Caminos, Canales y Puertos. Universidad Politécnica de Cataluña, respecto al desarrollo de una asignatura en la que se planteaba el desarrollo de competencias interculturales desde una perspectiva transdisciplinar. Las competencias interculturales son necesarias para multitud de profesionales como los ingenieros e ingenieras que desempeñan su trabajo en proyecto multinacionales y trabajan en relación a profesionales de diverso origen cultural. En el trabajo se describen tanto las condiciones institucionales y organizativas que facilitaron el éxito de la experiencia, las características del grupo discente, los efectos de la experiencia, y la metodología didáctica aplicada. Un balance altamente positivo tanto para el alumnado como para el profesorado que la impartió.Save to LibraryDownloadby Assumpta  Aneas•  6  Engineering, Transdisciplinarity, Intercultural Competence, IngenieríaEmpfehlungen für die Förderung und Weiterentwicklung von ReallaborenSave to LibraryDownloadby Josefine  Fokdal•TransdisciplinarityPre-print: Preserving Landscapes and Re-Ordering Science-Society RelationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Thomas Völker•  4  Transdisciplinarity, Futures, Sociotechnical imaginaries, Science and Technology StudiesThe Aesthetics of Reason and CareSave to LibraryDownloadby Ryszard W . Kluszczyński•  37  Aesthetics, Performing Arts, Art, Art TheoryEl holocausto desde adentro. Una mirada al caso del Palacio de Justicia [Entrevista anónima]Entrevista anónima a un Ex soldado del Ejército que participó en la toma del Palacio de JusticiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Revista Trans-pasando Fronteras•  5  Transdisciplinarity, Ciencias Sociales, Trans-pasando Fronteras, Universidad Icesi"Terminological Junctions in the Writings of Arakawa and Gins in Light of Gilles Deleuze's 'Shocks of Thought'"By examining the trans-disciplinary neologisms called "terminological junctions" in writings of Arakawa and Gins, one may find adequate conditions for making visible, and perhaps resolving a central paradox in the thinking of Gilles... moreBy examining the trans-disciplinary neologisms called "terminological junctions" in writings of Arakawa and Gins, one may find adequate conditions for making visible, and perhaps resolving a central paradox in the thinking of Gilles Deleuze, who exhorts us to "forge alliances" across scientific percepts, philosophical concepts and artistic constructs, and yet denies the adequacy of metaphor specifically, and tropes generally, because of the taint of representation and transcendence. Drawing on my earlier work which emphasizes the "agency" of tropes (by reference to Peter Galison and Bruno Latour) I attempt to recuperate tropes from within a Deleuzean frame, through an analysis of of "terminological junctions" as "shocks of thought."Save to LibraryDownloadby Martin E. Rosenberg•  44  Cognitive Science, Music, Philosophy, Philosophy of MindReconfiguring interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary spaces for Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences integrationInterdisciplinarity and transdisciplinarity denote a diversity of practices and present specific challenges to collaboration in research and education. One of those challenges is the integration of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences... moreInterdisciplinarity and transdisciplinarity denote a diversity of practices and present specific challenges to collaboration in research and education. One of those challenges is the integration of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS). The roles these disciplines perform in inter- and transdisciplinary research and education are often mostly limited to instrumental and subordinate ones. Unequal participation of these disciplines causes their exclusion from scientific communities, also affecting career paths of early and senior researchers. I present some results from the project entitled «Shaping interdisciplinary practices in Europe» (SHAPE-ID) that addresses the problem of how to better integrate AHSS disciplines in interdisciplinarity and transdisciplinarity. I conducted a systematic literature review and identified spaces in which integration is performed and roles that AHSS researchers fruitfully develop in an inter- or transdisciplinary setting. I discuss how to facilitate the participation of AHSS researchers by reconfiguring inter- and transdisciplinary spaces and roles. I conclude that AHSS disciplines’ participation in collaborative settings is limited and affects the type of inter- and transdisciplinary knowledge production processes that are driven. This has a direct effect on how senior researchers perceive their academic careers and set the research agenda. But also, on how early career researchers build their academic future.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bianca Vienni Baptista•  11  Humanities, Interdisciplinarity, Transdisciplinarity, Art and ScienceTransdisciplinarity of India's master's level public health programmes: evidence from admission criteria of the programmes offered since 1995Introduction: In the Indian subcontinent, Master's-level Public Health (MlPH) programmes attract graduates of diverse academic disciplines from health and non-health sciences alike. Considering the current and futuristic importance of the... moreIntroduction: In the Indian subcontinent, Master's-level Public Health (MlPH) programmes attract graduates of diverse academic disciplines from health and non-health sciences alike. Considering the current and futuristic importance of the public health cadre, we described them and reviewed their transdisciplinarity status based on MlPH admissibility criteria 1995 to 2021. Methods: Using a search strategy, we abstracted information available in the public domain on MlPH programmes and their admissibility criteria. We categorized the admission criteria based on specified disciplines into Health science, Non-health science and Non-health non-science categories. We described the MlPH programmes by location, type of institution, course duration, curriculum, pedagogical methods, specializations offered, and nature of admission criteria statements. We calculated descriptive statistics for eligible educational qualifications for MlPH admission. Results: Overall, 76 Indian institutions (Medical colleges-21 and Non-medical coleges-55) offered 92 MlPH programmes (Private-58 and Public-34). We included 89 for review. These programmes represent a 51% increase (n = 47) from 2016 to 2021. They are mostly concentrated in 21 Indian provinces. These programmes stated that they admit candidates of but not limited to "graduation in any life sciences", "3-year bachelor's degree in any discipline", "graduation from any Indian universities", and "graduation in any discipline". Among the health science disciplines, Modern medicine (n = 89; 100%), Occupational therapy (n = 57; 64%) is the least eligible. Among the non-health science disciplines, life sciences and behavioural sciences (n = 53; 59%) and non-health non-science disciplines, humanities and social sciences (n = 62; 72%) are the topmost eligible disciplines for admission in the MPH programmes. Conclusion: Our review suggests that India's MlPH programmes are less transdisciplinary. Relatively, non-medical institutions offer admission to various academic disciplines than the medical institutions in their MlPH programmes. India's Master's level public health programmes could be more inclusive by opening to graduates from trans-disciplinary backgrounds.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kumaravel Ilangovan and +1vignesh vairamani•  7  Education, Transdisciplinarity, Applied Transdisciplinarity, Public Health“It’s Just a Never-Ending Battle”: The Role of Modern Hygiene Ideals and the Dynamics of Everyday Life in Constructing Indoor EcologiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Dena Fam•  8  Human Ecology, Transdisciplinarity, Environmental Health, Sociology of Everyday LifeEthnology's Cultural Relativism and Its (Alleged) Problems: The Scientific- Theoretical DimensionI see fruitful interconnections between ethnology and quantum theory (following T. Görnitz, in the tradition of C. F. von Weizsäcker). In my master's thesis, I pursued them from a perspective of philosophy of science. Put in context... moreI see fruitful interconnections between ethnology and quantum theory (following T. Görnitz, in the tradition of C. F. von Weizsäcker). In my master's thesis, I pursued them from a perspective of philosophy of science. Put in context within the intra-ethnological debate on cultural relativism, I address the 'trench warfare' between the natural sciences and the humanities, which goes back to the influences of classical physics. And I point out the interdependency between reductionist and holistics outlooks and how they are grounded in the science and epistemology of ethnology.To give a more concrete example for said fruitful interconnections: With the Heisenberg uncertainty relation the transdisciplinary concept of the trade-off can be rethought or thought ahead. I use the example of concepts for gender equality, which are in the trade-off between social freedom and social security.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elvira Bauer•  20  Quantum Physics, Epistemology, Philosophy of Science, Social AnthropologyCollective Evolution and Next-Stage OrganizationsCollective evolution is the nature of the universe. From the Big Bang to Purple Rain, all of existence has emerged in an unceasing, cosmically inspired dance. Strange attractors exert an inexorable pull, as the gravity of des­tiny shapes... moreCollective evolution is the nature of the universe. From the Big Bang to Purple Rain, all of existence has emerged in an unceasing, cosmically inspired dance. Strange attractors exert an inexorable pull, as the gravity of des­tiny shapes the flow of creation. As early Helium and Hydrogen soon realized, there is no turning back. Free­will doesn't mean we can change the music, just that we decide how we wiggle and with whom we dance. And in the end, there is always an explosion. Once again, the end of times is at hand. The question facing humanity today is whether to continue denying this, and go out in a blaze of glory, or step up to our cosmic potential. The collective stardust that is humanity has ushered in the Anthropocene, and we are now at the helm of spaceship earth. To survive in post-normal times, we must address the wicked problems of a Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity and Ambiguity (VUCA) world at peak everything, where widespread social, economic and environmental injustice are colliding amidst the increasing pressures of catastrophic envi­ronmental damage and exponential human and technologi­cal growth. Next Stage Organizations can bridge the inher­ent paradox of these problems, tapping into the wicked transformative potential of conscious evolution by adding value where once was pain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Eric M Reynolds•  6  Integral Theory, Transdisciplinarity, Humanistic psychology, ComplexityNew science for global sustainability? The institutionalisation of knowledge co-production in Future EarthIn the context of complex and unprecedented issues of global change, calls for new modes of knowledge production that are better equipped to address urgent challenges of global sustainability are increasingly frequent. This paper presents... moreIn the context of complex and unprecedented issues of global change, calls for new modes of knowledge production that are better equipped to address urgent challenges of global sustainability are increasingly frequent. This paper presents a case study of the new major research programme " Future Earth " , which aims to bring 'research for global sustainability' to the mainstream of global change research. A core principle of Future Earth is the co-production of knowledge with extra-scientific actors. In studying how the principle of co-production becomes institutionalised in the emerging structure of Future Earth, this paper points to the existence of three distinct rationales (logics) on the purpose and practice of co-production. Co-production is understood as a way to enhance scientific accountability to society ('logic of accountability'), to ensure the implementation of scientific knowledge in society ('logic of impact'), and to include the knowledge, perspectives and experiences of extra-scientific actors in scientific knowledge production ('logic of humility'). This heterogeneous conception of knowledge co-production provides helpful ambiguity allowing actors with different perspectives on science and its role in society to engage in Future Earth. However, in the process of designing an institutional structure for Future Earth tensions between the different logics of co-production become apparent. This research shows how logics of accountability and impact are prominent in shaping the development of Future Earth. The paper concludes by pointing to an essential tension between being inclusive and transformative when it comes to institutionalising new modes of knowledge production in large research programmes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sandra van der Hel•  4  Transdisciplinarity, Institutional Change, Sustainability Science, Research ProgrammesDie Tücken der Objekte. Über die Risiken der Gesellschaft und ihre WirklichkeitUmwelt, Technik & Risiko – damit verbinden wir eine Symptomatik, die für die Moderne von bestandskritischer Bedeutung ist. Soweit herrscht Einigkeit. Kontrovers sind hingegen Diagnose und Therapie. Ist die industriegesellschaftliche... moreUmwelt, Technik & Risiko – damit verbinden wir eine Symptomatik, die für die Moderne von bestandskritischer Bedeutung ist. Soweit herrscht Einigkeit. Kontrovers sind hingegen Diagnose und Therapie. Ist die industriegesellschaftliche Risikoproblematik auf die In- und Extensivierung der Inanspruchnahme der Natur zurückzuführen? Oder herrschen kulturelle Veränderungen in der Wahrnehmung von Unsicherheiten vor? Diesen Fragen folgend werden Probleme der Forschung, der Gesellschaftstheorie und des Risikomanagements erörtert.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas Metzner-Szigeth•  46  Critical Theory, Engineering, Discourse Analysis, SociologyEpistemología y Medicina ComplejaSave to LibraryDownloadby Miguel A Briceño Gil•  4  Epistemology, Complexity Theory, Transdisciplinarity, Complexity in medicineSpark (a novel)Professor Peyton Wilde has an enviable life teaching sociology at an idyllic liberal arts college—yet she is troubled by a sense of fading inspiration. One day an invitation arrives. Peyton has been selected to attend a luxurious... moreProfessor Peyton Wilde has an enviable life teaching sociology at an idyllic liberal arts college—yet she is troubled by a sense of fading inspiration. One day an invitation arrives. Peyton has been selected to attend a luxurious all-expense-paid seminar in Iceland, where participants, billed as some of the greatest thinkers in the world, will be charged with answering one perplexing question. Meeting her diverse teammates—two neuroscientists, a philosopher, a dance teacher, a collage artist, and a farmer—Peyton wonders what she could ever have to contribute. The ensuing journey of discovery will transform the characters' work, their biases, and themselves. This suspenseful novel shows that the answers you seek can be found in the most unlikely places. It can be read for pleasure, is a great choice for book clubs, and can be used as unique and inspiring reading in qualitative research and other courses in education, sociology, social work, psychology, and communication.Save to LibraryDownloadby Patricia  Leavy•  20  Creative Writing, Fiction Writing, Sociology, InterdisciplinarityChapitre Transdisciplinarité: s’impliquer avec la complexitéApproche qui intègre les multiples perspectives, basée sur l’interconnexion des domaines de savoir académiques et non académiques afin d’obtenir une compréhension complexe et holistique du monde.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Jesús Delgado Díaz•  5  Education, Complexity Theory, Educational Research, TransdisciplinaritySketching as a Thinking ProcessSketching is a form of communication and as such particularly effective for illustrating ideas or sharing thoughts. For designers, sketching is an indispensable tool that helps them externalize concepts, explore ideas and solve problems.... moreSketching is a form of communication and as such particularly effective for illustrating ideas or sharing thoughts. For designers, sketching is an indispensable tool that helps them externalize concepts, explore ideas and solve problems. However, the underlying principles of the cognitive creative process appear to be difficult to grasp. Students use sketching to visualise ideas, yet many do not know how to use it as a thinking tool. As a result, they tend to skip parts of the development process: the doodling, exploring, comparing and assessing that help them refine the initial intent into a mature design. To address this shortfall, a methodical approach to structuring exploratory thinking was introduced into a classroom and studio setting of the 3rd year industrial design program. The exercise described in details was initially developed for a theory course as a means of assessing students’ ability to assimilate theoretical notions and apply them to design. In fact, the approach p...Save to LibraryDownloadby Tatjana Leblanc•  6  Computer Science, Design Methods, Industrial Design, TransdisciplinarityCreating spaces and cultivating mindsets for learning and experimentation International Transdisciplinarity Conference 2021In this communication, we present the background and core elements of the 2021 edition of the International Transdisciplinarity Conference. Beginning with a brief history of how the event was initiated and the role played by saguf in... moreIn this communication, we present the background and core elements of the 2021 edition of the International Transdisciplinarity Conference. Beginning with a brief history ofhow the event was initiated and the role played by saguf in supporting its development, we then detail the main features of the conference and its relevance for transdisciplinary sustainability research and education.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bianca Vienni Baptista•  2  Transdisciplinarity, Transdisciplinary researchLos principios de la complejidad y su aporte al proceso de enseñanzaEl objetivo de este ensayo es plantear una ecología de saberes entre los principios de la complejidad y los paradigmas considerados como tradicionales. En primera instancia se ofrece una perspectiva de lo que se entiende por complejidad,... moreEl objetivo de este ensayo es plantear una ecología de saberes entre los principios de la complejidad y los paradigmas considerados como tradicionales. En primera instancia se ofrece una perspectiva de lo que se entiende por complejidad, seguida de un breve abordaje sobre el proceso de enseñanza, y por último se realiza una sistematización de conceptos entre los principios de la complejidad y el proceso de enseñanza. Como método de investigación se utilizó la hermenéutica. En conclusión, el documento integra un diálogo epistemológico que guía a repensar la Educación, específicamente el proceso de enseñanza, desde una perspectiva compleja y transdisciplinar.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alex D. Estrada-García•  17  Philosophy of Science, Complexity Theory, Transdisciplinarity, Philosophy of TransdisciplinarityEpistemología y Medicina ComplejaMedicrit 2005; 2(6): 95-103 RESUMEN Con los descubrimientos en el campo de la Complejidad muchas disciplinas científicas han comenzado a hacer esfuerzos para enfrentar los nuevos retos que suponen esta situación que las afecta tanto desde... moreMedicrit 2005; 2(6): 95-103 RESUMEN Con los descubrimientos en el campo de la Complejidad muchas disciplinas científicas han comenzado a hacer esfuerzos para enfrentar los nuevos retos que suponen esta situación que las afecta tanto desde el punto de vista epistemológico, como ontológicamente al propio sujeto de estudio, su composición y comportamiento. La medicina no escapa a esta corriente que emerge y ha comenzado a dar forma y contenido al conocimiento del siglo XXI y a la actuación del científico. En el presente artículo se examina la situación epistemológi-ca actual de la medicina y el impacto que en ella ha tenido los avances en el campo de la biología, la química y la físi-ca. Se exponen las consideraciones que ya están haciendo médicos latinoamericanos en torno a la complejidad y su in-cidencia en las relaciones interorganísmicas, médico-pacien-te, mente-cuerpo, individuo-sociedad-ambiente. Al final se propone que en las actuales condiciones, un avance en el campo de campo de la medicina debe estar signado por la transdisciplinariedad, en una forma de interacción y pro-ducción de conocimientos y nueva relación con el objeto y su entorno que quisiéramos designar como Medicina Com-pleja. Palabras clave: epistemología, medicina, complejidad, trans-disciplinariedad SITUACIÓN EPISTEMOLÓGICA ACTUAL DE LA MEDICINA a visión generalizada de finales del pasado siglo XX es la de que los progresos técnicos están do-minando toda la patología humana, con lo que se fortifican utopías de una salud absoluta y perma-nente y la vida eterna del hombre. Pero hay que plantearse cuales son los fines racionales, lógicos de la medicina, pues-to que el objeto de la medicina no puede ser prolongar la vi-da a toda costa1. La primera pregunta que en este sentido debemos hacer-nos es la de si la medicina es una ciencia 2. La respuesta pa-1 Meeroff, Marcos. Futuro de la base científica de la medicina. http://www.sama.org.ar/Futuro.html 2 Gallego, Rocío. La medicina:¿Una profesión? Affectio Societatis. N° 4 Junio de 1999. Revista Electrónica del Departamento de Psicoanálisis. Universidad de recería ser obvia, pero si nos detenemos un instante encon-tramos que en un comienzo, el fundamento de la ciencia moderna era la experiencia y sólo podía tener este valor lo que se podía someter a control y demostración. Así el ideal de la certeza se convirtió en la medida de todo conoci-miento. Este modelo caracterizó a la física newtoniana y es-tá cimentado en el paradigma cartesiano y cientificista, ana-lítico y lineal, bajo ley de causa y efecto. El advenimiento del principio de incertidumbre de Heisenberg en la física cuántica, desplaza las leyes formuladas por Newton y el es-quema cartesiano. Ahora la ciencia no lo puede todo, no tie-ne la verdad absoluta. Con este resultado el fundamento científico de la medicina queda en entre dicho, al igual que para el resto de las disciplinas científicas y la pregunta sobre el objeto continúa vigente. ¿Es la Medicina una Filosofía? veamos: dice Aristóteles que la sabiduría (sophía) es saber pleno que sólo corres-ponde a Dios. Los principios del nous (intelecto) se "mues-tran" no se demuestran; son evidencias primarias e indu-bitables. En esto se diferencia de la epistéme, cuyos prin-cipios se demuestran. Sophía, nous y epistéme tienen carác-ter especulativo, son estrictamente teóricos, no prácticos, son saberes universales, que definen conjuntos, no indivi-duos. La actividad médica no busca verdades universales per se, aunque tenga principios filosóficos y morales. Dice Ortega y Gasset "La medicina no es ciencia. Es pre-cisamente una profesión, una actividad práctica. Como tal, significa un punto de vista diferente de la ciencia. Se pro-pone curar o mantener la salud en la especie humana. A este fin hecha mano de cuanto parezca a propósito: entra en la ciencia y toma de sus resultados cuanto considera eficaz, pe-ro deja el resto; está ahí para aprontar soluciones, si son científicas, mejor". En efecto, no existe una ciencia médica, sino un discurso científico utilizado por la medicina. Sólo hay ciencia de lo general, jamás de lo particular. Las leyes de la ciencia no se pueden aplicar a la medicina. El sujeto está por fuera de ella, ya que sus síntomas son unos sig-nificantes que hacen que cada cual se pueda distinguir de los demás. La medicina se apoya en la biología, la fisiología, la anatomía y la bioquímica y aplica lo que de ellas se deduce. Pero no es una suma de saberes. Sus estudios siempre se han emprendido bajo la presión de la patología. De modo que mientras en el orden didáctico, lo patológico se deduce de lo normal, por el contrario, en el orden heurístico, lo normal se establece a partir de lo patológico. Esto último tiene efectos L Antioquia. ISSN: 0123-8884. http://www.encolombia.com/pediatria34499-lamedicina.htm Briceño MA Epistemología y Medicina Compleja Medicrit 2005; 2(6):95-103 www.medicrit.com 95Save to LibraryDownloadby Miguel A Briceño Gil•  8  Epistemology, Complexity Theory, Transdisciplinarity, EpistemologíaGLOBALIZACIÓN Y EL IMPACTO DEL IIRSA EN LA REGIÓN SURCOLOMBIANA: EL CASO DE PUTUMAYO1La presente ponencia analizará los impactos negativos de la Iniciativa de Integración Regional Suramericana en los pueblos indígenas Kofán y Kamentza, asentados sobre el territorio del departamento de Putumayo. Pues estos son impactados... moreLa presente ponencia analizará los impactos negativos de la Iniciativa de Integración Regional Suramericana en los pueblos indígenas Kofán y Kamentza, asentados sobre el territorio del departamento de Putumayo. Pues estos son impactados negativamente en sus formas de concebir el mundo, su relación con la naturaleza, los tejidos sociales y económicos generados a partir de procesos milenarios en donde los saberes ancestrales se sitúan como un elemento determinante en su cosmovisión, a partir de una lógica globalizadora naciente desde Brasil con su proyecto IIRSA. Este trabajo se realiza desde un enfoque cualitativo con diseño descriptivo, pues busca comprender el contexto y sus dinámicas, por medio del método documental en donde se rastrean fuentes académicas, periodísticas y audiovisuales, sistematizando la información en fichas documentales. Los aspectos para desarrollar giran en torno a la conceptualización del IIRSA, su impacto sobre los territorios indígenas del putumayo y finalmente se presentará una alternativa teniendo en cuenta las diferentes formas en las que puede ser abordada la Ciencia Política. Los aportes de este serán de índole académica, social, política y cultural, ya que este permite generar tipos de alternativas desde la transdisciplinariedad hacia la teoría y la práctica, teniendo en cuenta las formas de construir territorialidad desde los habitantes de esta zona.Save to LibraryDownloadby JESUS MANUEL  LOSADA ZAMBRANO•  7  Globalization, Transdisciplinarity, Globalización, TerritorialidadGeografia e arquitetura institucional da cooperação ambiental brasileira na América do SulResumo: A partir das lentes da joint discipline que transpassa categorias de análise das disciplinas do Direito Internacional e das Relações Internacionais, a presente pesquisa radiografa a geografia e a arquitetura institucional da... moreResumo: A partir das lentes da joint discipline que transpassa categorias de análise das disciplinas do Direito Internacional e das Relações Internacionais, a presente pesquisa radiografa a geografia e a arquitetura institucional da cooperação ambiental brasileira na América do Sul. Para radiografar a geografia, a pesquisa indaga onde esta cooperação está localizada, o que ela estabelece e quais são os atores cujos interesses a envolvem. Ao investigar a arquitetura, foca-se em entender como ela operacionaliza o seu conteúdo normativo, o que envolve compreender o papel do direito internacional em operar políticas públicas ambientais transversais a diversos Estados. A exploração documental analisa os regimes bilaterais na matéria, e, através de levantamento, sugere que esta cooperação é descentralizada e difusa, ao mesmo tempo que inova no seu modus operandi.Abstract: From the lenses of the joint discipline that cuts across categories of analysis of the disciplines of International Law and International Relations, this investigation radiographs the geography and the institutional architecture of the Brazilian environmental cooperation in South America. By analyzing its geography, the study inquires where this cooperation is situated, what it establishes and which are the actors whose interests involve it. By investigating its architecture, it focuses on understanding how it operationalizes its normative content, which involves understanding the role of international law in operating environmental public policies that are transversal to different States. The documentary exploration analyzes bilateral regimes in this sector, and, through survey, suggests that this cooperation is decentralized and diffuse, while innovating in its modus operandi.Resumen: Con  base  en  los  lentes  de  la  joint  discipline  que  atraviesa  categorías  de  análisis  de  las  disciplinas  del  Derecho  Internacional  y  Relaciones  Internacionales,  esta  investigación  examina la geografía y la arquitectura institucional de la cooperación ambiental brasileña en América del Sur. Para radiografiar la geografía, la investigación se pregunta dónde se ubica esta cooperación, qué establece y cuáles son los actores cuyos intereses la involucran. Al investigar la arquitectura, se enfoca en comprender cómo opera su contenido normativo, lo que implica comprender el papel del derecho internacional en la operación de políticas públicas ambientales en varios Estados. La exploración documental analiza los regímenes bilaterales en la materia y, a través de un levantamiento, sugiere que esta cooperación es descentralizada y difusa, al mismo tiempo que innova en su modus operandi.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ademar Pozzatti and +1Henrique Rogovschi•  20  Latin American Studies, International Relations, International Law, International Human Rights LawFUNDAMENTALS OF TRANSDISCIPLINARY CONCEPTS AND METHODOLOGY OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTIn the article conceptual and methodological difficulties in realizing sustainable development issue and finding ways to solve it are analysed. The statement of need to create and apply new scientific approaches and new scientific tools... moreIn the article conceptual and methodological difficulties in realizing sustainable development issue and finding ways to solve it are analysed. The statement of need to create and apply new scientific approaches and new scientific tools is given to solve the problem of sustainable development. The practicability of using this approach as an approach and a necessary tool of transdisciplinary approach and trans-disciplinary models of spatial, informational and temporal order unit is justified.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vladimir  Mokiy•  14  Sustainable Development, Transdisciplinarity, Applied Transdisciplinarity, Sustainable Human DevelopmentII Congreso Internacional ILICIA: Literatura, Ciencia y TransitividadILICIA International Conference plantea en esta nueva edición diversas propuestas de estudio dedicadas a los vínculos y espacios transitivos generados en el cruce de las disciplinas científicas y la literatura. El congreso está abierto a... moreILICIA International Conference plantea en esta nueva edición diversas propuestas de estudio dedicadas a los vínculos y espacios transitivos generados en el cruce de las disciplinas científicas y la literatura. El congreso está abierto a reflexiones sobre la práctica literaria entramada con las ciencias, así como a los análisis y enfoques propios de otros campos del saber en los que la literatura aporte, active o facilite modulaciones nucleares. De manera general, se pretende establecer un mapa de relaciones transitivas entre cultura científica y cultura humanístico-literaria, en las que una y otra puedan los papeles de agente y objeto.Save to LibraryDownloadby Víctor Bermúdez and +3Mauricio  Cheguhem RianiCandela Salgado IvanichIlicia Conference•  16  Cognitive Science, Transdisciplinarity, Literary Theory, Literature And Science“Una Ciencia Política transdisciplinar en Colombia”El artículo propone una interpretación epistemológica sobre el desarrollo disciplinar de la ciencia política en Colombia. A través de un ejercicio hermenéutico se fundamenta la necesidad de pensar y reconocer la ciencia política de manera... moreEl artículo propone una interpretación epistemológica sobre el desarrollo disciplinar de la ciencia política en Colombia. A través de un ejercicio hermenéutico se fundamenta la necesidad de pensar y reconocer la ciencia política de manera (trans) disciplinar, para luego mostrar que en el proceso de conformación de las distintas plantas docentes han participado profesionales de diferentes ramas, dejando en evidencia la dificultad para configurar programas con especificidades disciplinares. El artículo concluye afirmando que este carácter transdisciplinar lleva a una diversidad metodológica y a una evanescente definición del objeto de estudio, que si bien no se constituyen en una desventaja epistemológica, prueban la falta de un elemento cohesionador e identitario para la disciplina.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julián Caicedo Ortiz and +2Sergio  AngelJulián Andres Cuellar Argote•  6  Political Science, Transdisciplinarity, History of Political Science, Ciencia PoliticaTHE NURSE IS PRESENT: A REVIEW EXPLORING THE TEMPORALITY OF ILLNESS THROUGH PRESENCE AND NARRATIVE, AN ARTIST’S PERSPECTIVE“Illness works to deform and distort all the meaning and value one gives to one’s life” (Ahlzén, 2011, p.325). A feeling of terminal loss is experienced within the physical body as chaos floods the brain. Even language is incapable of... more“Illness works to deform and distort all the meaningand value one gives to one’s life” (Ahlzén, 2011, p.325). A feelingof terminal loss is experienced within the physical body as chaosfloods the brain. Even language is incapable of fully addressingthe internal tension that comes with illness, because it strivesto make articulate the unpresentable or the abject. This reviewis directed towards analysing the experience of embodimentin illness, one’s relation to the self and to others, all withina particular context such as a place of constraint (hospital)or exchange (museum). The mediation between care and artpractice, in fact, allows for the emergence of similar statesthat fluctuate between closeness and distance and between theunpresentable and the presentable as they enter in a process ofdialogue. Such states allow the nurse and the artist to engagefreely with the Other in a space defined by the intensity ofthe present moment and its assimilation through the path ofnarrativity. An empathic audio-visual tool called Sanctuarywas created to serve a narrative, the ill person’s narrative. Itis presented in the form of a visor which allows the viewer toenter a ‘bunker-like’ space. An empathic encounter with theself, aims to be triggered through the process of participation inthe artwork. The play of tension within a restorative, shelteringspace is followed with planned empathic dialogue between thenurse and the ill person.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pam Abela•  13  Nursing, Nursing Theories, Narrative, TransdisciplinarityResponsabilidade social e educação em design: autonomia frente à complexidade dos fenômenos humanos na contemporaneidadeThis work addresses social responsibility in dialogue with design education as a possible way for the student to develop the necessary autonomy to solve the complex problems that emerge from contemporary times. Skills necessary for the... moreThis work addresses social responsibility in dialogue with design education as a possible way for the student to develop the necessary autonomy to solve the complex problems that emerge from contemporary times. Skills necessary for the designer who understands his action and his active role as a subject in this context are examined, through bibliographic review. The ability to deal with the uncertainties and complexity of the world is emphasized, observing the subjectivity involved in the design process, the dynamics of open systems, the dialogic and polysemic process in collaborative design processes in the context of social innovation,  exercising  empathy  and  affectivity.  It  is  understood  that  social  responsibility,  assumed  by  the  design  student,  brings  with  it  personal  transformation,  openness  to  the  different  and  the  ability  to  listen  actively  in  any  environment.  The inevitability of transdisciplinarity in design education is a finding and the encouragement for students to occupy decision-making positions in pedagogical processes is seen as a catalyst for these learnings.Save to LibraryDownloadby DATJournal Design, Art and Technology and +2Caroline MedeirosMarisa  Maass•  10  Design, Decision Making, Design education, TransdisciplinarityLanguage policy and planning as an interdisciplinary field: Towards a complexity approach [Política y planificación lingüísticas como campo interdisciplinario: Hacia una aproximación compleja (compléxica)]One of the dangers that we should be aware of when we study issues of language policy and planning is the fragmentary perspective by which they can be approached. Reality, by contrast, is interrelated and overlapping. This is why a... moreOne of the dangers that we should be aware of when we study issues of language policy and planning is the fragmentary perspective by which they can be approached. Reality, by contrast, is interrelated and overlapping. This is why a complexity perspective stresses the importance of studying the contexts of phenomena, that is to say, their external relations. The direction to be followed here leads towards a better understanding of reality as a set of open systems that are in continuous exchange with the surrounding ecosystem, bearing in mind always that any apparent stability is the result of a dynamic equilibrium. Making headway towards an interdisciplinary approach is therefore necessary and imperative.Headings such as status/normative/institution vis-à-vis others such as solidarity/normal/individual seem to imply a basic distinction in the definition of sociocultural reality. To discover and understand the dynamics of the interaction between these two major categories is, in fact, one of the most important subjects waiting to be addressed by language planning and policy strategies and more broadly by sociolinguistics. An interrelated set of guiding questions for the field could thus be stated as follows: What group or organisation, in pursuit of what overall objective or intention, wants to achieve what, where, how and when; and what do they actually achieve, and why? With this approach, even if how a group or organisation obtains its desired goal – that is, its actual intervention – is included as one of the main elements in a piece of research, the research will not focus exclusively on this topic, but will frame the intervention and identify how it is interrelated with all the other elements involved globally in this phenomenon, trying to establish a clear theoretical understanding of the entire interwoven set of events and processes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Albert Bastardas-Boada•  36  Sociology, Cultural Sociology, Social Sciences, Sociology of LanguageRicerca e dottorato di ricerca, transdisciplinarietà e indagine creativa.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alfonso Montuori•  6  Philosophy, Epistemology, Social Sciences, CreativityТрансдисциплинарные стратегии исследования (Transdisciplinary Strategies of Research) (in Russian). В: Вестник Томского государственного Педагогического универсистета.  № 10, 2011.Рассматриваются особенности трансдисциплинарности, ее отличие от междисциплинарности и полидис- циплинарности. В качестве бурно развивающихся областей современных трансдисциплинарных исследований рассматриваются теория сложности... moreРассматриваются особенности трансдисциплинарности, ее отличие от междисциплинарности и полидис-циплинарности. В качестве бурно развивающихся областей современных трансдисциплинарных исследованийрассматриваются теория сложности (синергетика), исследования будущего (futures studies) и когнитивная нау-ка. Показано, что именно трансдисциплинарные исследования, по-видимому, определят облик науки в сред-несрочном будущем.Save to LibraryDownloadby Helena Knyazeva•  12  Cognitive Science, Creativity studies, Creativity, InterdisciplinarityGlossaLAB Co creating Interdisciplinary KnowledgeThe paper describes the glossaLAB international project as a contribution to confront the urgent need of knowledge integration frameworks, as required to face global challenges that overwhelm disciplinary knowledge capacity. Under this... moreThe paper describes the glossaLAB international project as a contributionto confront the urgent need of knowledge integration frameworks, asrequired to face global challenges that overwhelm disciplinary knowledgecapacity. Under this scope, glossaLAB is devised to make contributions in threemain aspects of such endeavor: (i) development of a sound theoretical frameworkfor the unification of knowledge, (ii) establishment of broadly acceptedmethodologies and tools to facilitate the integration of knowledge, (iii) developmentof assessment criteria for the qualification of interdisciplinarity undertakings.The paper discusses the main components of the project and thesolutions adopted to achieve the intended objectives at three different levels: atthe technical level, glossaLAB aims at developing a platform for knowledgeintegration based on the elucidation of concepts, metaphors, theories andproblems, including a semantically-operative recompilation of valuable scatteredencyclopedic contents devoted to two entangled transdisciplinary fields:the sciences of systems and information. At the theoretical level, the goal isreducing the redundancy of the conceptual system (defined in terms of “intensionalperformance” of the contents recompiled), and the elucidation of newconcepts. Finally, at the meta-theoretical level, the project aims at assessing theknowledge integration achieved through the co-creation process based on (a) thediversity of the disciplines involved and (b) the integration properties of theconceptual network stablished through the elucidation process.Save to LibraryDownloadby Simone Belli and +1Jose Maria Diaz Nafria•  7  Interdisciplinarity, Transdisciplinarity, Information Studies, Knowledge co-creation and sharingCreative Inquiry. Entry in: The encyclopedia of the sciences of learningCreative Inquiry frames learning and education as a larger manifestation of the creative impulse rather than as the fundamentally instrumental acquisition, retention, and reproduction of information, or Reproductive Learning. Montuori, A.... moreCreative Inquiry frames learning and education as a larger manifestationof the creative impulse rather than as the fundamentally instrumental acquisition, retention, and reproduction of information, or Reproductive Learning.Montuori, A. (2011). Creative inquiry. In N. M. Seel (Ed.), The encyclopedia of the sciences of learning. Heidelberg: Springer.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alfonso Montuori•  100  Creative Writing, Sociology, Cultural Studies, PsychologyLino Santos & Armando Marques Guedes, 2015, Breves reflexões sobre o poder e o ciberespaço. Brief Thoughts on Power and CyberspaceResumo: Num Estado de Direito, a luta política entre os vários grupos, que defendem ou atacam interesses de classe, económicos, profissionais, geracionais, de género, ou outros, embora regulada, é uma constante. Governos, empresas e... moreResumo: Num Estado de Direito, a luta política entre os vários grupos, que defendem ou atacam interesses de classe, económicos, profissionais, geracionais, de género, ou outros, embora regulada, é uma constante. Governos, empresas e cidadãos, individulamente ou em grupo, lutam pelos seus objectivos estabelecendo relações de poder. Os media sempre tiveram um papel instrumental neste contexto e o novo media do séc. XXI – o ciberespaço – não é excepção. As características estruturais e funcionais deste instrumento criaram novas condições para a mobi-lização e participação políticas, reavivando a crença na acção libertadora da téc-nica. Por outro lado, nenhuma outra tecnologia promoveu tanta concentração de poder nas grandes empresas da indústria digital, ou criou semelhantes condições para a vigilância activa dos cidadãos por parte dos Estados. Este artigo reune algumas reflexões sobre a importância do ciberespaço como dimensão de poder. Abstract: The political struggle among groups defending or attacking class, economic, professional, generational, gender or any other interests, although regulated, is a constant. Governments, businesses and citizens, individually or as a group, fight for their porpuses by establishing relations of power between them, the media had always played an instrumental role with this regard and the new media of the 21st century – the cyberspace – is no exception. The structural and 1 Entregue: 2.3.2015; aprovado: 30.5.2015.Save to LibraryDownloadby Armando Marques-Guedes•  114  Organizational Behavior, Semiotics, Religion, HistoryDesign for Human and Planetary Health - A transdisciplinary approach to sustainability, Daniel Christian Wahl, WIT Press, 2006This paper explores various integrative frameworks that are contributing to anemerging transdisciplinary meta-perspective on sustainable development. It proposes a holistic/integral strategy based on scale-linking design for human and... moreThis paper explores various integrative frameworks that are contributing to anemerging transdisciplinary meta-perspective on sustainable development. It proposes a holistic/integral strategy based on scale-linking design for human and planetary health: First, ‘Integral Theory’, ‘Spiral Dynamics’ and ‘IntegralEcology’ are briefly reviewed as dynamic mapping methodologies to structure,facilitate and mediate between diverse value systems and perspectives of multiple stakeholders and disciplines. Changes in worldview, value system, andintentionality are crucial to the emergence of a sustainable civilization. Second,design is described as a transdisciplinary integrator and facilitator of informeddecision making in the face of uncertainty. Design for systemic health cancatalyse the sustainability transition. Third, the paper outlines how complexitytheory, combined with a holistic conception of health, informs a scale-linkingapproach to sustainable design. Systemic health is a scale-linking, emergent property of healthy interactions and relationships within complex dynamicsystems. The health of human beings, societies, ecosystems and the planetarylife support system is fundamentally interconnected and interdependent.Sustainability, as a process of community-based learning, is expressed throughdesign that is informed by ecological principles and adapted to local, regionaland global limits and opportunities. In general, sustainable design is synergetic,symbiotic, scale-linking, salutogenic and sacred. There is a need to integrateecological, social, cultural, economic and psychological (spiritual)considerations into a flexible and responsive strategy to facilitate thesustainability transition. Design for human and planetary health requires atransdisciplinary dialogue aiming for appropriate solutions and community-basedvisions of sustainability. Keywords: scale-linking design, complexity, integral ecology, salutogenicdesign, transdisciplinary integration, health, sustainable civilization, visionSave to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Christian Wahl, PhD•  25  Health Communication, Health Promotion, Design, Sustainable CommunitiesPRADO, G.;  MOURA, .M; LEITÃO, E.; SOUZA, W. Uma estranha diferença - Atravessamentos transversais e transdisciplinares para a psicologia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Guilherme Augusto Souza Prado•  17  Transdisciplinarity, Gilles Deleuze, Felix Guattari, Gilles Deleuze and Felix GuattariIntellectual Development via "Trans-disciplinary Communication"Trans-Disciplinary Communications requires translating from disciplinary or inter-disciplinary semiotic systems to a common semiotic system, as is the case of Natural Language semiotic systems. This translation needs communicational... moreTrans-Disciplinary Communications requires translating from disciplinary or inter-disciplinary semiotic systems to a common semiotic system, as is the case of Natural Language semiotic systems. This translation needs communicational skills that are acquired and required in written or oral Trans-Disciplinary Communications. Consequently, the practice of this kind of communication develops the intellect, which quintessence is to related internal and external worlds and words. Furthermore, it diversifies the intellect making it more adaptable. This is almost a necessary condition for 1) dealing with unexpected situations and changes, as well as for 2) facing real-life problems which usually are multidisciplinary ones; then they require multidisciplinary teams, whose members need to communicate among themselves and with the people affected by the problem and/or its solution. Both reasons, and especially the second requires intellects developed via external trans-disciplinary communication.Save to LibraryDownloadby JSCI  Systemics, Cybernetics, and Informatics•  5  Transdisciplinarity, Applied Transdisciplinarity, TRANSDISCIPLINARY STUDIES, Transdisciplinary PracticeSTUDIO ROMA NOTESStudio Roma - transdisciplinary program on the contemporarySave to LibraryDownloadby Paolo Do•TransdisciplinarityGespräch mit Lawrence WeinerInterview in German language with the US-American artist Lawrence Weiner on BALL BEARINGS OR ROUND STONES. KUGELLAGER ODER RUNDE STEINE is a three-part work of public art in three languages on three different squares in the city of... moreInterview in German language with the US-American artist Lawrence Weiner on BALL BEARINGS OR ROUND STONES. KUGELLAGER ODER RUNDE STEINE is a three-part work of public art in three languages on three different squares in the city of Zurich, realized within the transdisciplinary research project "Kunst Öffentlichkeit Zürich" between 2004 and 2007.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christoph  Schenker•  3  Contemporary Art, Public Art, TransdisciplinarityLA BELLEZZA FA L'UOMO BUONO: NATURA E AMBIENTE NEL PATTO EDUCATIVOCronaca della Tre giorni accademica in seno all'iniziativa "Ricostruire il patto educativo globale" promossa dalla Congregazione per l'Educazione Cattolica (Roma, 14-16 gennaio 2020).Save to LibraryDownloadby Rivista Antonianum•  6  Ethics, Science Education, Transdisciplinarity, Philosophies of Human NatureNextLast »Related TopicsInterdisciplinarityFollowFollowingApplied TransdisciplinarityFollowFollowingPhilosophy of TransdisciplinarityFollowFollowingComplexity TheoryFollowFollowingTRANSDISCIPLINARY STUDIESFollowFollowingCreativityFollowFollowingEdgar MorinFollowFollowingScience, Technology and SocietyFollowFollowingCreativity and ConsciousnessFollowFollowingSociology of KnowledgeFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023