Telegraph style book: places and people
Jump to content
UK News Website of the Year
The Telegraph logo
News
Sport
Business
Opinion
Ukraine
Money
Royals
Life
Style
Travel
Culture
Puzzles
        UK Edition
    
                    US Edition
                
Search Icon
Subscribe now
Free for one month
Log in
Sections
        UK Edition
    
                    US Edition
                
News
News home
UK news
Politics
World
Health
Defence
Science
Education
Environment
Investigations
Global Health Security
Sport
Sport home
Football
Rugby Union
Cricket
F1
Tennis
Golf
Women's Sport
Racing
Cycling
Boxing
More... 
Business
Business home
Alex
Economy
Companies
Markets
Tech
Opinion
Opinion home
Obituaries
Letters to the Editor
Telegraph View
Our columnists
Cartoons
Ukraine
Ukraine home
Daily podcast
Daily newsletter
Money
Money home
Investing
Property
Pensions
Banking
Tax
Bills
Net Zero
Financial Solutions
More... 
Royals
Royals home
King Charles III
Queen Camilla
Prince William
Princess of Wales
Prince Harry
Duchess of Sussex
Life
Life home
Family
Columnists
Cookbook
Food & Drink
Health & Fitness
Tel Mag
Cars
Puzzle News
Gardening
Recommended
Style
Style home
Fashion
Beauty
Luxury
Interiors
Weddings
Travel
Travel home
UK holidays
Dream Trips
Destinations
City guides
Hotels
Cruises
Rail
Adventure
Luxury
Ask the experts
Culture
Culture home
TV
Film
Music
Books
Theatre
Opera
Art
Gaming
Hit lists
Telegraph Tickets
More...
Puzzles
        UK Edition
    
                    US Edition
                
Subscribe now
Free for one month
Log in
Login icon
Follow us on:
Facebook icon
Instagram icon
Twitter icon
Snapchat icon
LinkedIn icon
YouTube icon
More from The Telegraph
Download our app
Newsletters
Telegraph Extra
Wine Cellar 
Recommended
Financial Solutions
Events
Betting
Dating
Offers
Shop
Garden shop
Bookshop
Tickets
Puzzles
Fantasy Football
Work at The Telegraph
Telegraph Corporate
Help and support
The Chelsea Magazine Company
Broadband and Mobile Deals
Voucher codes
See top shops
Samsung
Nike
ASOS
eBay
Currys
Wayfair
TUI
JD Sports
Travelodge
Adidas
Broadband deals
Cheap broadband
Broadband in my area
Broadband and TV deals
Mobile deals
SIM-only deals
Places and people
23 January 2018 • 3:14pm
Britons not Britishers or Brits except in quotations, Great Britain includes England, Scotland and Wales.
Normally write about Britain or, when there is an Irish angle to the story, to mainland Britain. The United Kingdom or the abbreviation UK is to be avoided whether as a noun or an adjective unless the story has a specific relevance to Northern Ireland that would make the use of "Britain" or "British" wrong. The Business section has a partial exemption from this rule, on the grounds that markets are international and the concept of UK comes up far more often.Local and regional government in Britain has been complicated by the 1995 recommendations of the Local Government Commission, mostly approved by the Secretary of State in 1996. These reduced the number of shire counties and created almost 50 unitary authorities in England.
In addition there are metropolitan district councils and district councils and, in Scotland, regional district councils.
Counties in England Bedfordshire; Buckinghamshire; Cambridgeshire; Cheshire; Cornwall; Cumbria; Derbyshire; Devon; Dorset; Co Durham; East Sussex; Essex; Gloucestershire; Hampshire; Herefordshire; Hertfordshire; Kent; Lancashire; Leicestershire; Lincolnshire; Norfolk; Northamptonshire; Northumberland; North Yorkshire; Nottinghamshire; Oxfordshire; Shropshire; Somerset; Staffordshire; Suffolk; Surrey; Warwickshire; West Sussex; Wiltshire; Worcestershire.
Abbreviations in lists and addresses Beds, Berks, Bucks, Cambs, Glos, Hants, Herts, Lancs, Leics, Lincs, Northants, Notts, Oxon, Staffs, Wilts. Use Devon (not Devonshire). Co Durham, East Sussex, West Sussex, North Yorkshire (N Yorks in lists and addresses) need all their caps to show that they are independent counties. Salop is no longer acceptable for Shropshire.
Use caps for regions: the North, the North East (no hyphen in any region), West Country, East Anglia, but eastern England. East Midlands, West Midlands, but south Devon, south Yorkshire, north Lancashire except in titles.
Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle-under-Lyme, St Helens, Merseyside, St Helen's, Isle of Wight.
Isles of Scilly, not the Scillies.
Windermere, not Lake Windermere. In place names mere means lake.
Scotland: the people are Scots, the adjective Scottish, although Scotch can refer to eggs, pies, whisky and wool shops.
Scottish local government authorities Aberdeen City; Aberdeenshire; Angus; Argyll and Bute; Ayrshire East; Ayrshire North; Ayrshire South; Clackmannanshire; Dumfries and Galloway; Dunbartonshire East; Dunbartonshire West; Dundee City; Edinburgh (City of); Falkirk; Fife; Glasgow (City of); Highland; Inverclyde; Lanarkshire North; Lanarkshire South; Lothian East; Lothian West; Midlothian; Moray; Orkney (not Orkneys); Perth and Kinross; Renfrewshire; Renfrewshire East; Scottish Borders; Shetland (not Shetlands); Stirling; Western Isles.
St Andrews. No possessive.
Wales the administrative areas are Isle of Anglesey; Blaenau Gwent; Bridgend; Caerphilly; Cardiff; Ceredigion; Carmarthenshire; Conwy; Denbighshire; Flintshire; Gwynedd; Merthyr Tydfil; Monmouthshire; Neath Port Talbot; Newport; Pembrokeshire; Powys; Rhondda Cynon Taff; Swansea; Torfaen; Vale of Glamorgan; Wrexham.
When there is no style ruling to the contrary, follow spellings in the Municipal Year Book for local government entities and Bartholomew's Gazetteer for other British place names.
Ireland includes Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Irish Government means the one in Dublin. Use Irish Republic or the Republic according to context, but not Eire. Ulster is acceptable for Northern Ireland. Never the Six Counties. Co Down, Co Cork etc, not County Down, County Cork.
Foreign place names there is no golden rule and no all-purpose reference book. Unless there is a style ruling follow the Statesman's Year Book or, failing that, the Columbia Lippincott Gazetteer.
Although North, South, East and West take caps for regions of the world or of countries which are regarded as political, economic, cultural or historical entities they remain lower case for sections of continents and countries, unless the name of the country is left understood.
Thus: Far East, but south-east Asia. the East-West political divide, the Deep South, the southern United States, the Middle West, South Africa but southern, north, west or east Africa.
Names of geographical features often include words which should not be repeated in translation (Rio Grande, not Rio Grande river or River Rio Grande; Sierra Nevada, not Sierra Nevada mountains).
In Arabic place names, avoid transliterations which have come through French - wadi (dry river bed) not ouadi, jebel (mountain) not djebel, and use Tel (not Tell) for hill. In Egypt, burg (tower), gebel, gisr (bridge), marg (field), instead of burj, jebel, jisr and marj.
Note these spellings and styles
Aden (capital of the united Yemens is now Sana'a, not Sa'na).
Alpine to describe the geographical region, alpine to describe a generic sport.
Altrincham (no G).
American refers to the United States of America unless the context dictates otherwise. Avoid adjectival use of US except in heads or compounds such as US-Russian. North America can be used to refer to the United States, Canada and Mexico.
American Indians, not native Americans.
Andalusia.
Arctic: the Arctic, Arctic Circle, Arctic Ocean, but Arctic current.
Argentina: never The Argentine. The people are Argentines, not Argentinians. The adjective is Argentine, not Argentinian.
Asian or Asians, not Asiatic or Asiatics.
Baghdad.
Bahamians (people of the Bahamas).
Bahrain.
Banjul, capital of Gambia.
Barbadians.
Basle, Switzerland.
Basutho (the people of Lesotho, sing and pl). Adjective is Basotho.
Batswana (people of Botswana, sing, pl and adj).
Bayreuth (Germany),Beirut (Lebanon).
Beijing not Peking.
Belize (formerly British Honduras). Capital is Belmopan.
Bermudians.
Berne.
Berwick-upon-Tweed.
Bhutan.
Bosporus, not Bosphorus or the Bosporus Strait.
Botswana for the country.
Brasilia (capital of Brazil).
Buenos Aires.
Burma, but note that it calls itself Myanmar, so explain where necessary.
Cairngorm: ignore the name CairnGorm, as the landscape cannot be rebranded.
Cambodia, Cambodians: Explain references to Kampuchea. Khmers are the ethnic group.
Cameroon, not Cameroons, nor Cameroun.
Cape Town.
Caribbean.
Christchurch (Hants and New Zealand).
City: cap only when part of the official title or in references to the City (financial centre). New York City only when readers may think there is a reference to New York state.
Colombia but British Columbia.
Comoros - not Comoro Islands.
Congo: the Republic of Congo, capital Brazzaville, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, formerly Zaire, capital Kinshasa. Our style is to use the full titles at first reference, then to call the Republic Congo-Brazzaville (as is widely done in Africa) and to call the Democratic Republic "Congo" at subsequent uses.
Continent and Continental take caps only to distinguish "mainland" Europe. We should remember that Britain is geographically in Europe.
Dakar (Senegal).
Darfur is a region of Sudan, not a province. It is divided into three provinces: Northern Darfur (local capital El Fasher), Southern Darfur (local capital Nyala) and Western Darfur (local capital El Geneina).
Dhaka (Bangladesh).
Dhahran.
Djibouti.
Dnieper (river), Dnepropetrovsk, Dniester (river).
Dominica and the Dominican Republic are not the same. Always clarify.
Dutch (preferred) or Netherlanders but never Hollanders.
Ecuador not Equador.
Eskimos. This is taken by Canadian eskimos as an insult. They should be called Inuit.
Far East (Burma, Cambodia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, North and South Korea. Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam). Avoid being specific about boundaries of the region.
French Canadians (no hyphen), but Irish-Americans, German-Americans.
Fujiyama not Mount Fujiyama.
Gambia, not The Gambia.
Germanies is the plural for the former East and West Germany.
Guinea: formerly French Guinea; Guinea-Bissau, formerly Portuguese Guinea.
Gulf: not Iranian, nor Persian, nor even Arabian: just The Gulf.
Guyana, formerly British Guiana. Guyanese for the people.
Hague: The Hague takes a cap T.
Hercegovina not Herzegovina.
Hispaniola, the island comprising the Dominican Republic and Haiti.
Holland. Use the Netherlands only in formal political contexts.
Hong Kong.Indo-China/Indo-Chinese: (NOT Indochina).
Indian cities: use traditional names, i.e.Bombay not Mumbai, Madras and not Chennai.
Iran, Iranians.
Iraq, Iraqis.
Istanbul: Constantinople only in historical references.
Izmir: Smyrna only in historical references.
Jakarta.
Kathmandu.
Khartoum.
Kilimanjaro, not Mount Kilimanjaro.
Kosovo, not Kosova.
Kyiv, not Kiev.
Lesotho. The people and the adjective are Basotho.
Liege (but Liegeois, the Belgian Embassy informs us - ignore Lippincott).
Livorno, not Leghorn.
Llanelli.
Lod (Israel), formerly Lydda.
Luxembourg.
Lyons, not Lyon.
Macedonia
Madagascar, not the Malagasy Republic except in quoted matter. The people (sing and pl) and the adjective are Malagasy.
Majorca, not Mallorca.
Malaysia is the nation of which Malaya is a part. The people are Malaysian unless there is a specific reference to the Malays, or preferably, Malayans, as an ethnic group.
Marseilles, not Marseille.
Middle East. Mid-East only in heads. Do not use Near East.
Middlesbrough (not Middlesborough).
Middle West (or Midwest): Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota and Wisconsin.
Mogadishu (Somalia).
Monaco: the people are Monegasque (s).
N'Djamena is the capital of Chad.
Newcastle upon Tyne (no hyphens).
Neuchatel is in Switzerland, Neufchatel in France.
Newcastle-under-Lyme.
Nigerians come from Nigeria.
Nigerois come from Niger.
Nuremberg
Papua New Guinea (no hyphens).
Pathan is preferable to Pashtu or Pushtu.
Philippines: adjective is Philippine; but adjective for the people, Filipino; Filipina for women.
Phnom Penh.
Port-au-Prince (Haiti).
Port of Spain (Trinidad).
Quebecois (people and adjective) only in references to the French Canadian people and culture: though a reference to a female would be Quebecoise.
Riyadh
Romania.
Rwanda.
Sahara. Sahara Desert is tautological.
Saint John, New Brunswick; St Johns, Quebec; St John's, Newfoundland.
Salzburg
Saudi Arabia: never just Saudi, which is the adjective.
Schipol: airport outside Amsterdam.
Former Soviet Union: the states (preferable to the term republics, although can be used synonymously) are:
Armenia; Azerbaijan - adjective: Azerbaijani for people and state; Belarus - not double s - adjective: Belarussian; Georgia; Kazakhstan - adjective Kazakh (not Kazakhi or Turkmeni etc); Kyrgyzstan - adjective Kyrgyz; Moldova - Moldovan; Russia or the Russian Federation (synonymous), but not the Russian republic; Tajikistan - Tajik; Turkmenistan (note the i) - Turkmen; Ukraine - (not the Ukraine); but the Crimea; Uzbekistan - Uzbek; also: the Baltic states (not republics), Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, all now in Nato and the EU; autonomous republic: Tatarstan (not Tataria); Yakutia; Bashkiria; Chechnya; Ingushetia; Nagorno Karabakh (no hyphen); but Alma-Ata. Kishinev, capital of Moldova, not Chisnau; Lvov, not Lviv. Yekaterinburg (formerly Sverdlovsk) must have 'y' at start.
Sri Lanka (formerly Ceylon): the people are Sri Lankans, but differentiate when necessary between Sinhalese and Tamils.
St, Ste: normally abbreviated in place names, but there are exceptions.
Stoke-on-Trent.
Stratford-on-Avon district council, but Stratford upon Avon (town), as in the Gazetteer.
Sudan (no 'the').
Tbilisi (Georgia), formerly Tiflis.
Tehran.
Temple Mount: needs occasional Muslim translation, "Temple Mount, known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary (Al Haram al Sharif)".
Valletta.
United Arab Emirates: abbreviate to UAE only when the full title has been used repeatedly; the Emirates. They are: Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharja, Ajman, Fujaira, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaima.
United Kingdom. Remember that it includes Northern Ireland. Do not use the phrase interchangeably with Great Britain.
United States: US (no full points) only in heads and in compounds like US-European. Use American as the adjective unless there is danger of confusion with another country in North America or South America.
Vienna.
Washington. Use DC (for District of Columbia) only when necessary to distinguish from the state of Washington on the Pacific Coast. Washington state or the state of Washington.
West Bank: West Bank of the Jordan, the Jordan West Bank or, when the context is clear, the West Bank.
Yemen: the united former North Yemen and South Yemen. Capital is Sana'a.
Yerevan (Armenia), formerly Erivan.
Twitter Icon
Facebook Icon
WhatsApp Icon
Email Icon
Comment speech bubble icon
Advertisement
More stories
Twitter Icon
Facebook Icon
WhatsApp Icon
Email Icon
Save
Comment speech bubble icon
The Telegraph
Back to top
Follow us on:
Facebook icon
Instagram icon
Twitter icon
Snapchat icon
LinkedIn icon
YouTube icon
Help Centre
About us
Telegraph Extra
Reader Prints
Branded Content
Syndication and Commissioning
Guidelines
Privacy
Terms and Conditions
Advertising Terms
Fantasy Sport
UK Voucher Codes
Betting Offers
Modern Slavery
Tax Strategy
Broadband and Mobile Deals
Wine Cellar
The Chelsea Magazine Company
© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2023