A short history of London government - London Life, GLA
146 captures
29 Nov 2004 - 09 Apr 2023
Sep
APR
Aug
21
2007
2008
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: 51_crawl
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20080421023053/http://www.london.gov.uk:80/london-life/city-government/history.jsp
Skip navigation  
 
 Search Mayor of London GLA Global Site SearchSearch London LifeSearch London AssemblySearch Media Centre 
 Home  |  About  |  City 
      Hall  |  Contact  |  FAQ  |  Help  |  Jobs  |  Site map
London Life
|
Mayor of London
|
London Assembly
|
Media Centre
Business & jobs
> City government
Community & people
Education & learning
Environment
Health & social care
Housing
Policing & safety
Sport & leisure
Transport & travel
City government 
      > A short history of London government 
A short history of London government
Historically local government in the capital has been shared between
          small vestries or boroughs, the City of London, and London-wide bodies
          such as the Metropolitan Board of Works, the London County Council,
        the Greater London Council and more recently, the Greater London Authority.
Created in 1889, the London County Council (LCC) was the first metropolitan-wide
          form of general local government. Its creation was forced by a succession
        of scandals involving its predecessor the Metropolitan Board of Works
        (MBW). The MBW, which had run London's infrastructure such as roads and
        bridges, had not been directly elected.
The LCC was created as the principal administrative body
          for the County of London; a lower tier of 28 metropolitan boroughs
          was created in 1899, replacing the earlier parishes and vestries.
The LCC's administrative area was the County of London: an area
            smaller area than Greater London is now and corresponding to today's
            London Boroughs of Camden, Greenwich, Hackney, Hammersmith and Fulham,
            Islington, Kensington and Chelsea, Lambeth, Lewisham, Southwark,
          Tower Hamlets, Wandsworth and Westminster.
In 1906 the LCC bought up three adjacent plots of land on the eastern
        side of Westminster Bridge with the intention of developing a single
        headquarters. The
      County Hall, designed by Ralph Knott, and was officially opened in
      1922.
1963 Establishment of the Greater London Council (GLC)
        In 1963 the Government responded to the expansion of the London
        urban area into the Home Counties by creating the Greater London Council.
        Its first members were elected in 1965.
Created at the same time as the GLC, 32
          London boroughs 
        replaced the old London County Council and the metropolitan boroughs.
        The 28 metropolition boroughs that had covered the old LCC area were
        merged to form 12 London boroughs (referred to collectively as Inner
        London). The City
        Corporation, covering the old City of London, remained intact whilst
         a further 20 boroughs were added to form the outer London area. 
Since Greater London Council
          was not an education authority, but the London County Council had been,
          an Inner London Education Authority was constituted to continue this
          role for the area of the old County of London. In outer London, the
        20 boroughs were responsible for education.
The boroughs and the GLC covered a Greater London area of some 1,580
      sq km and a population of over seven million.
Until 1986  the boroughs and the GLC provided a two-tier system
        of London government. Responsibility for services was split, and in some
      cases shared. Whilst the GLC was responsible for services such as London
        Transport, the fire and emergency planning, flood prevention, information
        and research, the boroughs had responsibility for environmental services,
        consumer protection, personal social services, libraries and swimming
        pools. For some services - such as roads, housing, planning
        and leisure - responsibility was shared.
1986 Abolition of the GLC
        In 1983 in
        the run-up to the  general election, the Conservative Party pledged
         to abolish the GLC and six other metropolitan
        county councils. 
Following abolition in 1986, the services previously
          provided by the GLC were carved up between central government, the
        boroughs and a new set of London-wide bodies.
In the years following the GLC's abolition,  the lack of a strategic
        authority fostered a sense of dissatisfaction among many politicians
        and amongst Londoners.  It left a major gap in the capital's
          political structures. There was no longer any single, local organisation
          to take a democratic lead in tackling London-wide issues like transport,
        planning and regeneration.
This void was filled by ministerial decrees, quangos and groups set
      up by the London boroughs. Bodies such as the London Planning Advisory
        Committee, the London Research Centre, and the London Ecology Unit all
        arose out of the ashes of the GLC's abolition. In addition, the Government
        appointed a Transport Minister for London, a Cabinet sub-committee on
        London and created London
        First, a business-led
        organisation to promote London as a world city. In 1994 the Government
        Office for London was set up as part of a system of regional government
      offices throughout the country.
The re-establishment of regional government
One of the main manifesto pledges of the Labour Party in 1997 was a
        referendum on the re-introduction of a democratically elected strategic
        authority for London, with a directly elected Mayor and Assembly. The
        referendum, held in May 1998, endorsed the setting up of
        the Greater London Authority by a three to one majority.
 The Greater
          London Authority Act received Royal
        Assent at the end of 1999. The legislation provided for an election for
        the Mayor and London Assembly  - 14 constituency members elected
          by first past the post and 11 pan-London members to be elected by proportional
      representation.
Several of the London-wide bodies which had been set up after the GLC
        was abolished were transferred into the GLA - the London Planning Advisory
        Committee, the London Research Centre, and the London Ecology Unit -
      while other bodies merged in a reformed Association
      of London Government. 
        The first Mayor of London and London Assembly, consisting of
        25 salaried members, were elected on 5 May 2000. 
These elections made history in the UK: this was the first ever directly elected Mayor; the system used for the elections - single transferable vote for the Mayor and a combination of constituency representatives and proportional representation for the Assembly - was new in England; and it was the first time that electronic counting had been used in a major election.      
        The second elections took place in June 2004 in exactly the
        same form as in 2000, again using electronic counting. The major difference
        was that the 2004 elections were carried out with the European elections.
        This was done to increase the turnout as it was thought two separate
        elections would reduce the turn out in both. The turnout in 2004 was
      37 per cent, a 2.5 per cent increase on 2000.
        For the 2000 and 2004 results and more on the elections visit Londonelects.
        
City government 
Who does what
History
Central Government
GLA Group, Mayor & Assembly
London boroughs
Health authorities
Other bodies
European parliament
Democracy
 
 
Terms and conditions
Accessibility
Privacy 
Freedom of information 
    Top of page
 
Home  |  About  |  City Hall  |  Contact  |  FAQ  |  Help  |  Jobs  |  Site map   
      