Official site of the Pali Text Society
 
 
Skip to content
Pali Text Society
Founded in 1881 to foster and promote the study of Pali texts
    Menu
Shop  
Publications
My account  
Cart
Checkout
Terms and Conditions
About  
The Pali Text Society
PTS Research Grants
Officers and Council Members
Meetings and Events
Membership
Support Us!
Pali Studies  
The Pali Language and Literature  
The Pali Canon
Canonical texts and their commentaries
Non-canonical texts and their translations
Fonts for Pali
Non-PTS editions
Abbreviations of Pali texts
English to Pali Exercises
Current Projects in Pali Studies  
Project to Digitize Myanmar Manuscripts
The Fragile Palm Leaves Foundation
News
Contact  
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
  
Scroll down to content
Home Page
Pali is the language of the most complete collection of early Buddhist texts, the Pali canon or Tipitaka (‘three baskets’), which constitutes ‘the word of the Buddha’ as handed down by the tradition of Theravada Buddhism for over 2000 years.
Since 1881 the Pali Text Society has promoted the study of Pali texts by publishing editions, translations and other works related to the study of Pali literature.
On this site you can purchase PTS publications, download many PTS publications for free, and find other material and links related to the study of Pali texts. You can also support the Society by becoming a member, giving you a 20% discount on all purchases.
Services
Publications
The society regularly publishes a journal, translations and original Pali language texts in book format, all available from our shop
View Our Shop
Pali Studies
We keep track of current works in translation to avoid duplication. Grants and bursaries are available for scholarly research in the field
Find Out More
Membership
Members may attend the Annual General Meeting, and purchase any of the Society’s publications at a discount of 20%.
Join the Society
Recent Publications
Dīgha-nikāya Sub-commentary (Līnatthapakāsinī)
Sub-commentary (ṭīkā) on the Dīgha-nikāya Set of 3 volumes: Vol. I-III (1970) ed. ed. Lily de Silva
£27.85 – £94.00
Dīgha-nikāya Sub-commentary (Līnatthapakāsinī): Set of 3 Volumes
Sub-commentary (ṭīkā) on the Dīgha-nikāya Set of 3 volumes: Vol. I-III (1970) ed. ed. Lily de Silva
£94.00
Dīgha-nikāya Sub-commentary (Līnatthapakāsinī): Volume III
Sub-commentary (ṭīkā) on the Dīgha-nikāya 3 volumes: Vol. III (1970) ed. ed. Lily de Silva
£27.85
Dīgha-nikāya Sub-commentary (Līnatthapakāsinī): Volume II
Sub-commentary (ṭīkā) on the Dīgha-nikāya 3 volumes: Vol. II (1970) ed. ed. Lily de Silva
£34.20
Dīgha-nikāya Sub-commentary (Līnatthapakāsinī): Volume I
Sub-commentary (ṭīkā) on the Dīgha-nikāya 3 volumes: Vol. I (1970) ed. ed. Lily de Silva
£42.55
Index to the Dīgha-nikāya
Computer-generated index to the Dīgha-nikāya M. Yamazaki, Y. Ousaka, K.R. Norman and M. Cone, 1997
£18.00
Dhātukathā with Commentary
The third volume of the Abhidhamma-piṭaka gives a detailed and systematic analysis of the elements of physical phenomena. ed. E.R. View
£27.50
A Critical Pāli Dictionary: Prolegomena
The fullest Pali-English dictionary covering a-kāreti. The dictionary has been discontinued after III.8. Begun by V. Trenckner; revised, continued and View
£13.75
Yamaka Commentary
Commentary on the Yamaka attributed to Buddhaghosa. (5th century C.E.) ed. C.A.F. Rhys Davids Published in The Journal of the Pali View
Tuṇḍilovāda
An apocryphal sutta extolling the merits of giving. (Date unknown.) ed. C. Hallisey Published in The Journal of the Pali Text View
View our Publications
Pali Text Society
                Old Market Studios
                68 Old Market Street
                Bristol BS2 0EJ
                UK              
                Tel: +44 (0)7436 534 179
                Skype: palitextsociety
                Email: info [at] palitextsociety.org
Copyright © 2023 Pali Text Society. All Rights Reserved
                  Registered charity number: 262216
disphoria design
 