Walcott mines gold in javelin for T&T | Sports | Jamaica Gleaner
9 captures
13 Aug 2012 - 05 Apr 2023
Aug
FEB
May
06
2012
2022
2023
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20220206011335/https://jamaica-gleaner.com/gleaner/20120812/sports/sports7.html
 
 
 
Skip to main content
 
Top Menu
Mobile Apps
eGleaner
Login
Subscribe Now
 
 
Kingston
      Sat | Feb 5, 2022    
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Menu
 
 
Main menuHomeLead StoriesNewsSportsEntertainmentBusinessLettersCommentaryHealthLifestyle 
Secondary Menu
World News
In Focus
Auto
Food
Shipping
Art & Leisure
COVID-19
Classifieds
Commerce
Flair
Jobs
Podcast
Puzzles
 
 
Mobile version
Subscribe to this feed
Join us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
 
 
 
 
Walcott mines gold in javelin for T&T 
 
Published:Sunday | August 12, 2012 | 12:00 AMPhotoVideo
  
  
 Trinidad and Tobago's Keshorn Walcott celebrates winning gold in the men's javelin throw final at the London Olympics yesterday.AP
        
         
 
   
 
LONDON, (CMC):
Trinidadian teenager Keshorn Walcott pulled off a stunning upset in the men's javelin, as the Trinidad and Tobago athlete celebrated gold on the final day of track and field at the London Olympics yesterday.
Walcott outshone far more experienced rivals with a tremendous throw of 84.58 metres.
For Trinidad and Tobago, it was only their second ever Olympic gold medal behind the legendary Hasely Crawford who captured the 100m at the 1976 Montreal Games.
The twin-island also managed bronze in the men's sprint relay, albeit it in fortuitous circumstances after third past the line Canada were disqualified.
      Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox
    
        Sign up for The Gleaner’s morning and evening newsletters.
      
Walcott, meanwhile, became the first athlete in 60 years from the Western Hemisphere (Americas) to win gold in an Olympic javelin event and the first in 40 years to win a medal.
second attempt was enough 
His winning mark came as early as his second attempt, having opened with 83.51m. He threw 80.64m on his fourth attempt before fouling the third and fifth throws and passing the last one.
"Going into the Olympics my goal was to get a personal best, I wasn't thinking about winning, I just wanted to get in and enjoy myself," said the 19-year-old who also dominated the World Junior Games in Barcelona last month.
"[It has] not caught up to me yet so I have not yet realised what I have done."
He continued: "I'm even surprised I made the final. I just went out there to relax and enjoy it, and it worked for me."
Ukraine's Oleksandr Pyatnytsya took silver with a throw of 84.51 while Finland's Antti Ruuskanen captured bronze with 84.12.
At the end of track and field segment with only the men's marathon today, the Caribbean has 17 medals overall - six gold, four silver and seven bronze - the best ever medal haul at an Olympiad. Jamaica has 12 medals - four gold, four silver and four bronze, Trinidad and Tobago come next with four medals - a gold and three bronze and Bahamas has one gold.
 
View the discussion thread.
 
 
  
 More Sports 
 
Email this story
 
 Print this page 
 E-mail the editor 
 
 
More Stories
  
 JPL fixture postponed  
 National striker Michail Antonio nominated for 2021 Concacaf Men's Player of the Year 
 Arnett look to tighten up their defence  
 Bernard pleased with Chong move   
 ‘There is something to build on’  
 Goalkeeper White training with Phoenix Rising  
 Simpson, McMaster top David East Mem Sporting Clays  
 Fuller-Anderson meet moves to G.C. Foster  
 Confident Halledeen aiming to win Triple Crown in 2022   
 Silverwood axed ahead of West Indies series  
 
 
 
 
Videos
For more videos click here.
 
Just for you
 
Table of Contents
The Gleaner ArchivesDigital Archives: Online editions 2006-Now
Library: Research and Assistance
Print Archives: Editions 1834-Present
Gleaner Your WayMobile: Get the Gleaner on your mobile
Newsletter: Get headline news
RSS Feeds
Gallery
Games
Videos
GCML WebsitesThe Star
Gleaner Classifieds
Go Jamaica
Gleaner - North America
Youthlink
Voice UK
Flair
GCML WebsitesRestaurant Week
Discover Jamaica
Go Jamaica Hosting
First Look
Weather
Gleaner LinksOur Products 
Advertise with us
About Us
Contact Us
Suggestion
Subscription
Terms and Conditions
Submit a Letter
Privacy Policy
RJRGLEANER Merger Q&A
 
 
 
      Copyright © 2022 The Gleaner Company (Media) Limited. A member of the RJRGLEANER Communications Group. All Rights Reserved.    
 
 
  
Have COVID-19 questions? Talk with our Virtual Assistant.
    