Conference on the Public Domain
Skip to Main Content
Duke Law >Centers & Programs >Center for the Study of the Public Domain >Events >Conferences and Meetings >Conference on the Public Domain
Conference on the Public Domain
Background
Papers
Participants
MPEGcast
Realcast
Schedule
 
Conference on the Public Domain
 Conference on the Public Domain
Duke Law School - November 9—11, 2001
(With the support of the Center for the Public Domain) 
A special edition collection of the papers from the conference is now available for purchase on amazon.com. Free digital versions of these papers are also available here.
About the Conference
The last fifteen years has seen a rise in both the importance and the strength of intellectual property rights in the world economy; rights have expanded in areas ranging from the human genome to the Internet and have  been strengthened with legally backed digital fences, lengthened copyright terms and increased penalties. Is this expansion of intellectual property necessary to respond to new copying technologies, and desirable because it will produce investment and innovation? Must we privatize the public domain to avoid a "tragedy of the commons," or can the technologies of cheap copying and global networks actually make common pool management more efficient than legal monopolies? Questions such as these have thrown attention on the "other side" of intellectual property: the public domain. What does the public domain do? What is its importance, its history, its role in science, art, and in the building of the Internet? How is the public domain similar to and different from the idea of a commons? This conference, the first major meeting to focus squarely on the topic of the public domain, will try to answer some of these questions                 in areas ranging from the human genome to appropriationist art, from the production of scientific data to the architecture of our communications networks. For each panel, "focus papers"                 will be produced by authorities in the field and made available on the Internet before the event in order to generate discussion.
Duke University
 Accessibility Statement | Contact Duke Law | Duke Law Home 
 