Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal297 FollowersRecent papers in Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleCaracteristicas generales de la fisiopatologia de la demencia en adultosEl trastorno de la demencia se caracteriza por su progresiva disminución y alteración de la cognición del individuo, deteriorando por lo menos un dominio cognoscitivo de orden superior como la capacidad de aprendizaje, la memoria, el... moreEl trastorno de la demencia se caracteriza por su progresiva disminución y alteración de la cognición del individuo, deteriorando por lo menos un dominio cognoscitivo de orden superior como la capacidad de aprendizaje, la memoria, el lenguaje, las funciones ejecutivas, la atención compleja, la percepción, la motricidad y coordinación motora y la cognición social. Por esta razón, el déficit funcional, de racionalización y ejecución que manifiesta el individuo puede ser considerable, provocando incluso, la interferencia con la calidad de vida del paciente, perjudicando su cotidianidad y alterando su independencia. (Larson, 2019) A grandes rasgos, la mayoría de las demencias se presentan como consecuencia de una enfermedad neurodegenerativa que producen síndromes clínicos ampliamente superpuestos, aunque manifiestan algunas características distintivas. De esta manera, la forma más común de demencia en adultos mayores (60-80% de los casos) corresponde a la Enfermedad de Alzheimer, una patología que afecta principalmente a personas mayores de 65 años. Por esta razón, a medida que la población general envejece, la frecuencia de la enfermedad de Alzheimer y de otras demencias tardías, se incrementa considerablemente en todo el mundo. (Wolk & Dickerson, 2018) Por esta razón, se exalta la necesidad de los médicos y de los prestantes de servicio de salud, a estar permanentemente equipados para evaluar el deterioro cognitivo del individuo y tener la capacidad de identificar el grado de alteración funcional del paciente. Para así, evitar los diagnósticos poco acertados y los tratamientos menos efectivos, desde un deterioro cognitivo leve, un estadio clínico intermedio entre la cognición normal y la demencia que puede ocurrir como parte del envejecimiento normal, o como un precursor de la demencia; hasta la aparición y evolución de una enfermedad neurodegenerativa. (Press & Alexander, 2019) En este orden de ideas, los trastornos neurodegenerativos más comunes, además de la enfermedad de Alzheimer, son la demencia con cuerpos de Lewy, la demencia frontotemporal y la demencia secundaria a la enfermedad de Parkinson. Por su parte, los trastornos asociados con la aparición y desarrollo de la demencia, con una menor prevalencia, son la parálisis supranuclear progresiva, la degeneración cortico basal, la atrofia multisistémica y la enfermedad de Huntington. Cabe destacar que las demencias en paciente jóvenes, o de tipo no neurodegenerativas pueden ser reversibles, de progresión lenta o deleble, si se identifica a tiempo la causa subyacente, y se establece el tratamiento oportuno, como en el caso de la demencia vascular, que usualmente se presenta concomitantemente con la enfermedad de Alzheimer en la mayoría de los pacientes con demencia crónica (demencia mixta). (Keene, Montine, & Lewis H Kuller, 2018) La demencia puede presentar más de una causa, especialmente en personas mayores, y en particular, con el progreso de la enfermedad y las comorbilidades que pueda presentar el individuo, como hipertensión arterial o diabetes. Todos estos factores exacerban el deterioroSave to LibraryDownloadby Camila Sofia Contreras Rojas•  8  Dementia, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Dementia Care, Vascular dementiaResultados de la estimulación cognitiva grupal en el Deterioro Cognitivo Leve: estudio preliminarResumen: El deterioro cognoscitivo leve (DCL) es una entidad que ayuda a identificar a aquellos individuos que tienen mayor probabilidad de desarrollar una demencia. La estimulación cognitiva se ha planteado como un posible tratamiento,... moreResumen:El deterioro cognoscitivo leve (DCL) es una entidad que ayuda a identificar a aquellos individuos que tienen mayor probabilidad de desarrollar una demencia. La estimulación cognitiva se ha planteado como un posible tratamiento, con la finalidad de mejorar su rendimiento cognitivo y retrasar así la evolución a demencia. Se seleccionan 38 pacientes con diagnóstico de DCL para evaluar la eficiencia de un programa de estimulación cognitiva. Para ello, se realiza una evaluación pre y postintervención. Tras la estimulación cognitiva, se observa una tendencia a la mejoría en casi todas las puntuaciones de los test. El análisis de los resultados mostró una mejoría estadísticamente significativa en la puntuación del MMSE, Percentil del Test de los 7 minutos (así como en varios de sus subtest, como Memoria Libre, Fluidez Verbal y Test del Reloj) y Lista de Palabras de la Wechsler Memory Scale-III (WMS-III) (tanto en el recuerdo demorado como en el aprendizaje total). Se observó que la puntuación de aprendizaje de la Lista de Palabras de la WMSIII era capaz de predecir un mayor rendimiento tras la estimulación cognitiva. Por ello, la intervención cognitiva podría ser una actividad efectiva y exenta de efectos adversos en el tratamiento de los pacientes con DCL.Palabras clave:Deterioro cognitivo leve, estimulación cognitiva, envejecimiento, potencial de aprendizaje, neuropsicología, demencia, rehabilitación, memoria.Abstract:Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a concept that helps identifying those individuals who are most likely to develop dementia. Cognitive therapy has been suggested as a possible treatment in order to improve cognitive performance and to delay dementia development. In this study, 38 MCI patients have been selected to evaluate the effectiveness of a cognitive therapy throughout two evaluations: before and after the action. After cognitive therapy an improvement in almost every test results has been observed. Results analysis showed a statistically significant improvement in results obtained in MMSE, 7 Minute Screen (as well as in several of its subtests: Free Recall, Verbal Fluency, and Clock Drawing), and Wechsler Memory Scale-III (WMS-III) word lists (both in delayed memory and general learning). It can also be observed that learning scores in WMS-III word lists can predict a better performance after cognitive therapy. Due to the results obtained, cognitive therapy could be an effective, and free from adverse effects, activity in MCI patients’ treatment.Keywords:Mild cognitive impairment, cognitive therapy, aging, learning potential, neuropsychology, dementia, rehabilitation, memory.Save to LibraryDownloadby José María Ruiz Sánchez de León•  9  Neuroscience, Cognitive Science, Neuropsychology, NeurologyDiferenças sintomáticas, neuropsicológicas e sociodemográficas em idosos com doença de alzheimer versus idosos com depressão.Introdução: O diagnóstico diferencial entre depressão e demência é complicado pelo défice cognitivo presente na depressão e pelos sintomas depressivos comuns na demência. Assim, a diferenciação sintomática reveste-se de grande importância... moreIntrodução: O diagnóstico diferencial entre depressão e demência é complicado pelo défice cognitivo presente na depressão e pelos sintomas depressivos comuns na demência. Assim, a diferenciação sintomática reveste-se de grande importância nesta distinção.Objetivo: Verificar quais as diferenças sintomáticas, neuropsicológicas e sociodemográficasentre a doença de Alzheimer (DA) e a depressão em idosos.Método: Inquirimos 49 idosos numa consulta externa psiquiátrica, destes 44,9% eram mulheres, com companheiro (57,1%), escolaridade inferior a quatro anos (44,9%), residente em regiões urbanas (91,8%) e idade média de 70,01 (DP = 7,73); 38,8% com DA e 61,2% com depressão. Avaliámos a linguagem com a Severe Impairment Battery Language Scale (SIB-L), o défice cognitivo com o Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), os sintomas depressivos com a Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) e os sintomas ansiosos com o Geriatric Anxiety Inventory (GAI).Resultados: Os idosos com DA estão significativamente (p< 0,001) piores na SIB-L (t = 10,52; M = 20,21 ± 6,13), MMSE (t = 9,21; M = 11,74 ± 7,16), GAI (t = 7,92; M = 12,11 ± 4,28), melhores no GDS (t = 11,53; M = 7,00 ± 2,08), e são mais velhos (t = 3,78; p< 0,05; M = 75,47± 8,44), do que os idosos com depressão (SIB-L: 37,67 ± 5,35; MMSE: 27,30 ± 2,22; GAI: 3,53 ± 2,49; GDS: 18,27 ± 4,67 e idade: 67,73 ± 5,92). Correlações ponto-bisserial confirmam estes resultados, associando-se o diagnóstico de forma significativa (p< 0,001) com a SIB-L (r = 0,84), MMSE (r = 0,85), GAI (r = -0,79), GDS (r = 0,85) e idade (r = -0,48).Conclusão: Défice cognitivo, sintomas depressivos e idade distinguem significativamente as duas perturbações, com a novidade de alterações linguísticas e sintomas ansiosos também o fazerem.Save to LibraryDownloadby Helena Espirito-Santo•  3  Alzheimer's Disease, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Depression on elderly peopleAutomatic Grading of Periventricular White Matter Hyperintensities using FLAIR MRISave to LibraryDownloadby Leonardo Iheme•  10  Medical Imaging, Dementia, Medical Image Processing, BiomarkersNeuroprotective Mechanisms of Resveratrol in Alzheimer's Disease: Role of SIRT1Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive and neurodegenerative disorder of the cortex and hippocampus, which eventually leads to cognitive impairment. Although the etiology of AD remains unclear, the presence of β-amyloid (Aβ) peptides... moreAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive and neurodegenerative disorder of the cortex and hippocampus, which eventually leads to cognitive impairment. Although the etiology of AD remains unclear, the presence of β-amyloid (Aβ) peptides in these learning and memory regions is a hallmark of AD. Therefore, the inhibition of Aβ peptide aggregation has been considered the primary therapeutic strategy for AD treatment. Many studies have shown that resveratrol has antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective properties and can decrease the toxicity and aggregation of Aβ peptides in the hippocampus of AD patients, promote neurogenesis, and prevent hippocampal damage. In addition, the antioxidant activity of resveratrol plays an important role in neuronal differentiation through the activation of silent information regulator-1 (SIRT1). SIRT1 plays a vital role in the growth and differentiation of neurons and prevents the apoptotic death of these neurons by deacetylating and repressing p53 activity; however, the exact mechanisms remain unclear. Resveratrol also has anti-inflammatory effects as it suppresses M1 microglia activation, which is involved in the initiation of neurodegeneration, and promotes Th2 responses by increasing anti-inflammatory cytokines and SIRT1 expression. This review will focus on the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory neuroprotective effects of resveratrol, specifically on its role in SIRT1 and the association with AD pathophysiology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marta Monteiro and +1Bastos Silva•  20  Neuroscience, Alzheimer's Disease, Alzheimer and Language, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalTratamiento de la enfermedad de AlzheimerSave to LibraryDownloadby José María Ruiz Sánchez de León•  5  Neuroscience, Neurology, Alzheimer's Disease, Clinical NeuroscienceAI-BASED CARE GIVEN FOR DEMENTIA PATIENTSIn India, more than 4 million people have some form of dementia. Worldwide, at least 44 million peoples are living with dementia, making the diseases a global health crisis that must be addressed. Dementia is caused by damaged to brain... moreIn India, more than 4 million people have some form of dementia. Worldwide, at least 44 million peoples are living with dementia, making the diseases a global health crisis that must be addressed. Dementia is caused by damaged to brain cells. This damage interferes with the ability of brain cells to communicate with each other. When brain cells cannot communicate normally, thinking, behavior and feelings can be affected. Demented people forget to do daily routines like having food, medication, exercise etc. The progress of severity of dementia depends on the care provided. In this paper, we designed a smart glass which AI based for dementia patients which replaces humans. This system establishing the daily routine of the demented patient by learning his/her test routines and predicting the most appropriate routine by machine learning. In this, we construct an algorithm that can learn from image preprocessing and make predictions on data. The virtual care giver guides the patients throughout the day with this exact daily routine just like a human care giver. The system can also guide the patient with his favorite places, events, and other important data just like human care given should do.Save to LibraryDownloadby IRJCS: : International Research Journal of Computer Science•  18  Artificial Intelligence, Image Processing, Machine Learning, DementiaDown the Rabbit Hole A Journey Through End Stage DementiaThis is a must read for anyone touched by dementia. This first person account of end stage dementia will leave you speechless. Join Stephen and Lauren as they try to navigate their ever changing landscape. Delve into a deteriorating... moreThis is a must read for anyone touched by dementia. This first person account of end stage dementia will leave you speechless. Join Stephen and Lauren as they try to navigate their ever changing landscape. Delve into a deteriorating mind where you too will experience guilt, denial, fear; anything but acceptance to this unrelenting thief, as you become absorbed in the road to nowhere, the one leading you down the rabbit hole.Save to LibraryDownloadby Veronika Zyss•  6  Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Early Onset Dementia, Mild Cognitive Impairment, Dementia, Alzheimer's disease, Aged care, Dementia, DeliriumNeurobehavioral differences between Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia: A meta-analysisSave to LibraryDownloadby Kylie Morphett•  4  Neuropsychology, Alzheimer's Disease, Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalA Scale of Socioemotional Dysfunction in Frontotemporal DementiaEarly social dysfunction is a hallmark symptom of behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD); however, validated measures for assessing social deficits in dementia are needed. The purpose of the current study was to examine the... moreEarly social dysfunction is a hallmark symptom of behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD); however, validated measures for assessing social deficits in dementia are needed. The purpose of the current study was to examine the utility of a novel informant-based measure of social impairment, the Socioemotional Dysfunction Scale (SDS) in early-onset dementia. Sixteen bvFTD and 18 early-onset Alzheimer’s disease (EOAD) participants received standard clinical neuropsychological measures and neuroimaging. Caregiver informants were administered the SDS. Individuals with bvFTD exhibited greater social dysfunction on the SDS compared with the EOAD group; t(32) 1⁄4 6.32, p , .001. The scale demonstrated preliminary evidence for discriminating these frequently misdiagnosed groups (area under the curve 1⁄4 0.920, p 1⁄4 ,.001) and internal consistency  a = 0.977. The SDS demonstrated initial evidence as an effective measure for detecting abnormal social behavior and discriminating bvFTD from EOAD. Future validation is recommended in larger and more diverse patient groups.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Barsuglia•  5  Neuropsychology, Neurology, Social Sciences, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalDans le miroir d’Alzheimer, les déments ne sont pas ceux que l’on croitPrendre soin d'une personne atteinte d’Alzheimer ou d’une maladie apparentée permet une longue méditation sur l’effacement, l’errance, l’exil, l’identité, l’oubli, le silence, l’absence, et sur notre présence pure en ce monde. Ayant... morePrendre soin d'une personne atteinte d’Alzheimer ou d’une maladie apparentée permet une longue méditation sur l’effacement, l’errance, l’exil, l’identité, l’oubli, le silence, l’absence, et sur notre présence pure en ce monde. Ayant accompagné pendant plusieurs années et jusqu'au bout sa mère décédée d'une telle maladie, Pascale Mottura s’autorise à écrire ici sur ce sujet difficile, mêlant pensées intimes et constats des carences de la prise en charge de ces malades obligeant les proches à une vigilance extrême. Cette chronique donne matière à réflexion sur la faiblesse actuelle des politiques publiques de protection et d’accompagnement de ce fléau contemporain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mottura  Pascale•  14  Alzheimer and Language, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Compassion, Universal CompassionValidation studies of the Portuguese experimental version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA): confirmatory factor analysisThe Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) is a cognitive screening instrument created with the purpose of overcoming some of the insufficiencies of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). The MoCA evaluates more cognitive areas and is... moreThe Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) is a cognitive screening instrument created with the purpose of overcoming some of the insufficiencies of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). The MoCA evaluates more cognitive areas and is comprised of more complex tasks as compared with the MMSE, which makes it a more sensitive instrument in the detection of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), a state that often progresses to dementia. In this study we performed an analysis of the psychometric and diagnostic properties of the Portuguese experimental version of the MoCA in a clinical sample of 212 subjects with MCI and several dementia subtypes in a memory clinic setting. Additionally, we performed a Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) to assess the MoCA’s latent factorial structure. In a clinical population, the MoCA is a valid and reliable instrument with good psychometric properties, revealing high sensitivity in identifying MCI and dementia patients who generally score within the normal range on the MMSE. By using the parcels method, CFA results showed very good/excellent adjustment indexes. The practical implications of this CFA study allow us to propose a two factor model factorial structure for the MoCA: a first factor designated MEMORY, which includes memory, language and orientation subtests (the latter being closely correlated with the former), and a second factor designated ATTENTION/EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS, comprised of attention, executive functions and visuospacial abilities tasks.Save to LibraryDownloadby Diana Duro and +2Emanuel PoncianoMario Simoes•  4  Neuropsychology, Dementia, Mild Cognitive Impairment, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalJudgments about moral responsibility and determinism in patients with behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia: Still compatibilists!Do laypeople think that moral responsibility is compatible with determinism? Recently, philosophers and psychologists trying to answer this question have found contradictory results: while some experiments reveal people to have... moreDo laypeople think that moral responsibility is compatible with determinism? Recently, philosophers and psychologists trying to answer this question have found contradictory results: while some experiments reveal people to have compatibilist intuitions, others suggest that people could in fact be incompatibilist. To account for this contradictory answers, Nichols and Knobe (2007) have advanced a ‘performance error model’ according to which people are genuine incompatibilist that are sometimes biased to give compatibilist answers by emotional reactions. To test for this hypothesis, we investigated intuitions about determinism and moral responsibility in patients suffering from behavioural frontotemporal dementia. Patients suffering from bvFTD have impoverished emotional reaction. Thus, the ‘performance error model’ should predict that bvFTD patients will give less compatibilist answers. However, we found that bvFTD patients give answers quite similar to subjects in control group and were mostly compatibilist. Thus, we conclude that the ‘performance error model’ should be abandoned in favour of other available model that best fit our data.Save to LibraryDownloadby Florian Cova•  8  Neuropsychology, Philosophy, Free Will, Moral Responsibility, Experimental philosophySTUDY: MEDICAL MARIJUANA MAY PREVENT ALZHEIMER'S DISEASEPioneering new research suggests that smoking marijuana before the onset of certain types of dementia, such as Alzheimer’s disease, can slow down the development of degenerative conditions. Taken at the right age and with sufficient... morePioneering new research suggests that smoking marijuana before the onset of certain types of dementia, such as Alzheimer’s disease, can slow down the development of degenerative conditions. Taken at the right age and with sufficient frequency, smoking marijuana could prevent the symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease from manifesting, to the degree that a person could die from old age before the condition fully sets in.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tim Sandle•  25  Addiction, Drugs And Addiction, Alzheimer's Disease, Chronic Pain Frontotemporal lobar degeneration from the perspective of the new clinical-pathological correlations.The disease currently known as Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD) underwent a complicated development. From its first description by Arnold Pick and Alois Alzheimer, through the first clinical and pathological criteria introduced by... moreThe disease currently known as Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD) underwent a complicated development. From its first description by Arnold Pick and Alois Alzheimer, through the first clinical and pathological criteria introduced by David Neary and David Mann to the current perception of the disease as a complex clinical and pathological entity. At present, the Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration is understood to be a heterogeneous clinical syndrome caused by degeneration of the frontal and temporal lobes. FTLD can manifest as any of the three clinical syndromes of frontotemporal dementia (behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia, progressive non‑fluent aphasia and semantic dementia) as well as so called overlap syndromes encompassing corticobasal dementia and progressive supranuclear palsy. FTLD represents approximately 10% of all cases of dementia but 40% of cases of early onset dementia (between the age of 45 and 65 years). Although FTLD subtypes differ in their clinical manifestation, common denominators include behavioural disturbances and impairment of fatic, gnostic and executive functions. Mnestic and visual‑ spatial functions are preserved until advanced stages of the disease. Compared to Alzheimer’s disease, the FTLD usually onsets at an earlier age and causes more devastating impairment of cognitive domains. Persons affected by FTLD become more quickly dependent on the help of other person or an institution. In our paper, we provide an overview of this complex entity, focusing mainly on frontotemporal dementia syndromes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jozef  Dragasek•  7  Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, UbiquitinAlzheimer’s Disease, Recent Researchhe aim of the book is to serve as a first approximation to those people who have Alzheimer’s Disease itself or within their family. This disease has been increased in terms of the number of cases in recent years, which in turn has led... morehe aim of the book is to serve as a first approximation to those people who have Alzheimer’s Disease itself or within their family. This disease has been increased in terms of the number of cases in recent years, which in turn has led to many questions emerge when a person or a family member receives the diagnosis, such as, What is Alzheimer’s Disease? What is its origin? Is there treatment? How evolving disease? What is the consequences in everyday life? What are the psychological effects on the patient? It can be overcome? Is it transmitted to the children? It opens before us all a melting pot of issues to try to assuage the uncertainty that causes find out that we are suffering from a disease increasingly more "common" and extended, and that it just known about the latest scientific advances in this area, due largely to the complexity of the technical language, but also because these advances are often only reach specialists through meetings and conferences where this type of information is shared. This book is clearly present the results of the latest research on Alzheimer’s Disease, which answer to the most relevant issues, both from the point of view of the patient and their family members, starting with the main what is Alzheimer’s Disease?Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Moises de la Serna•  8  Alzheimer's Disease, Alzheimer and Language, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Alzheimer'sALZHEIMER'S MEDICAL CONSIDERATIONSSUMMARY Introduction: Alzheimer's disease is a common pathology of the modern world, especially with ageing populations. This is due to both hereditary components and as a result of numerous injuries to neuronal structures and components... moreSUMMARY Introduction: Alzheimer's disease is a common pathology of the modern world, especially with ageing populations. This is due to both hereditary components and as a result of numerous injuries to neuronal structures and components of the central nervous system. Therefore, research from multiple perspectives is necessary to discern the complex mechanisms that give rise to this neurodegenerative disease. One perspective is with the use of imaging, and this paper illustrates the usefulness of this approach. Methodology: The material presented in this paper addresses the issues of the etiology of Alzheimer's disease and its effects on nerve cells and changes to the central nervous system. In order to illustrate this, information relating to patients, in the form of CT images, are detailed. Results: From an analysis of the imaging tests presented in this paper, it is noted that the changes occur on the structures of the central nervous system: brain, cerebella cortical brain sharp, periventricular white matter. Beside specific changes, CT exam shows other structures, such as paranasal sinuses, mastoid cells or orbits, do undergo change. Differentiating between these structures is important for diagnosis. Conclusion: The changes taking place in relation to the central nervous system components have consequences on the patient's life. The implication is that Alzheimer's disease should be studied from different perspectives, including the studying of images to support clinical assessments. Imaging can aid the accuracy of diagnosis through the identification of specific areas and causes connection with particular types of dementia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tim Sandle•  32  Medical Sciences, Surgery, History of Medicine, DementiaMaternal Choline Supplementation: A Potential Prenatal Treatment for Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's DiseaseAlthough Down syndrome (DS) can be diagnosed prenatally, currently there are no effective treatments to lessen the intellectual disability (ID) which is a hallmark of this disorder. Furthermore , starting as early as the third decade of... moreAlthough Down syndrome (DS) can be diagnosed prenatally, currently there are no effective treatments to lessen the intellectual disability (ID) which is a hallmark of this disorder. Furthermore , starting as early as the third decade of life, DS individuals exhibit the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) with subsequent dementia, adding substantial emotional and financial burden to their families and society at large. A potential therapeutic strategy emerging from the study of trisomic mouse models of DS is to supplement the maternal diet with additional choline during pregnancy and lactation. Studies demonstrate that maternal choline supplementation (MCS) markedly improves spatial cognition and attentional function, as well as normalizes adult hippocampal neurogenesis and offers protection to basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs) in the Ts65Dn mouse model of DS. These effects on neurogenesis and BFCNs correlate significantly with spatial cognition, suggesting functional relationships. In this review, we highlight some of these provocative findings, which suggest that supplementing the maternal diet with additional choline may serve as an effective and safe prenatal strategy for improving cognitive, affective, and neural functioning in DS. In light of growing evidence that all pregnancies would benefit from increased maternal choline intake, this type of recommendation could be given to all pregnant women, thereby providing a very early intervention for individuals with DS, and include babies born to mothers unaware that they are carrying a fetus with DS.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers•  16  Alzheimer's Disease, Alzheimer and Language, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, HippocampusEstimulación cognitiva por ordenador y donepezilo: efectos de la terapia combinada en el deterioro cognitivoResumen: En la actualidad, la estimulación cognitiva está ocupando un lugar cada vez más importante en el tratamiento, junto al farmacológico, de los casos de deterioro cognitivo. El objetivo del presente trabajo consiste en destacar... moreResumen:En la actualidad, la estimulación cognitiva está ocupando un lugar cada vez más importante en el tratamiento, junto al farmacológico, de los casos de deterioro cognitivo. El objetivo del presente trabajo consiste en destacar mediante un caso clínico la importancia de la terapia combinada (cognitiva y farmacológica). Caso clínico. Tratamos a un varón de 61 años con un diagnóstico de demencia de probable origen degenerativo primario, de perfil fronto-subcortical. Presenta de forma florida un cuadro de desinhibición, irritabilidad, ideas delirantes y alucinaciones. Cognitivamente muestra una alteración moderada de la memoria verbal, tanto inmediata como demorada, problemas gnósicos leves y de inhibición de respuestas automáticas. La exploración neurológica es normal. Tras 20 sesiones de 35 minutos de estimulación cognitiva por ordenador y tratamiento con Donepezilo, y aunque persiste la alteración funcional, los síntomas psiquiátricos han desaparecido en su mayoría y la ejecución en las pruebas neuropsicológicas se encuentra dentro de los valores normales para su edad. Por todo ello se sugiere que la terapia combinada a base de estimulación cognitiva y tratamiento farmacológico es beneficiosa, no solo para el rendimiento cognitivo de los pacientes con deterioro cognitivo, sino también para las alteraciones psiquiátricas asociadas.Palabras clave:Estimulación cognitiva, ordenador, deterioro cognitivo, donepezilo, rehabilitación neuropsicológica.Abstract:At present, cognitive stimulation is becoming increasingly important, together with pharmacological therapy, in treating cases of cognitive impairment. This study, based on a clinical case, illustrates the importance of combined therapy (cognitive and pharmacological). Clinical case. A 61-year-old male diagnosed with dementia of probable primary degenerative origin and a fronto-subcortical profile was treated. The patient presented florid manifestations of disinhibition, irritability, delusion and hallucinations. In cognitive terms, he showed moderately altered verbal recall (both immediate and delayed), slight gnosic problems and inhibition of automatic responses. The neurological exploration proved normal. After twenty 35-minute sessions of computer-mediated cognitive stimulation and treatment with donepezil, and although the functional alteration persists, the psychiatric symptoms mostly disappeared and performance of the neuropsychological tests is within the normal range for the age of the patient. It is therefore suggested that combined therapy comprising cognitive stimulation and pharmacological treatment is beneficial not only in terms of cognitive performance among patients with cognitive impairment, but also in application to the associated psychiatric alterations.Key words:Cognitive stimulation, computer, cognitive impairment, donepezile, neuropsychological rehabilitation.Save to LibraryDownloadby José María Ruiz Sánchez de León•  8  Neuroscience, Neuropsychology, Neurology, Alzheimer's DiseaseThe Flavonoid Derivative 2-(4 0 Benzyloxyphenyl)-3-hydroxychromen-4-one Protects Against Ab42-Induced Neurodegeneration in Transgenic Drosophila: Insights from In Silico and In Vivo StudiesIn the pathogenesis of Alzheimer’s disease (AD), it is well established that the self-association of Ab peptides into amyloid fibrils and/or plaque like aggregates causes neurotoxicity. As there is no cure for AD till date, identification... moreIn the pathogenesis of Alzheimer’s disease(AD), it is well established that the self-association of Abpeptides into amyloid fibrils and/or plaque like aggregatescauses neurotoxicity. As there is no cure for AD till date,identification of specific compounds that either inhibit theformation of Ab-fibrils or help in the dissolution of alreadyformed amyloid plaques makes an appealing therapeuticand preventive strategy in the development of drugs. In thepresent study, four synthetic flavonoid derivatives (1, 2, 3and4) were examined for docking studies with Amyloidbeta (PDB Code: 1IYT) and Amyloid fibril (PDB Code:2BEG). Of these, compound1and 4were found to bepotential inhibitors, as supported by computationalmolecular docking studies with adequate pharmacokineticproperties. Compound 1 was further tested in vivo intransgenic AD model of Drosophila. The disease causing human Ab42 peptide was expressed in the compound eyeby driving UAS-Ab42with ey-GAL4, which caused severedegeneration in eye tissues ranging from loss of bristles,ommatidial holes to severe ommatidial disruption asrevealed by digital camera imaging and scanning electronmicroscopy. When the Ab42expressing larvae were grownin medium containing Compound 1, *70 % rescue of therough eye phenotype was observed at 75 and 100lMconcentrations. This is further corroborated by significantreduction in amyloid plaques in eye imaginal disks ofcompound1treated larvae as revealed by immuno-confocal imaging studies. Further, rescue of locomotor deficitand improved life span in compound1treated Abflies alsoconfirm the neuroprotective activity of this compound.Thus, our results support the neuroprotective efficacy ofcompound 1 in preventing Ab42-induced neurotoxicityin vivo and identify it as a future therapeutic agent againstAD.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Sandeep  Singh•  17  Alzheimer's Disease, Computational Neuroscience, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, NeurodegenerationInstituto Nacional Sobre el EnvejecimientoSave to LibraryDownloadby Gaby Castillo•Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalSemantic knowledge of newly coined words in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer’s diseaseBackground: Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients at risk for developing Alzheimer’s disease frequently show subtle semantic memory deficits. The aim of this study is to investigate how early semantic impairments extend to words having... moreBackground: Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients at risk fordeveloping Alzheimer’s disease frequently show subtle semanticmemory deficits. The aim of this study is to investigate how earlysemantic impairments extend to words having recently enteredthe lexicon, in order to provide new clinical cues to discriminatebetween patients with MCI, AD and controls.Method: Semantic abilities of patients with AD (n ¼ 12), amnesticMCI (n ¼ 12) as well as healthy controls (n ¼ 12) were measuredwith the NewWord Questionnaire (NWQ), including 22 words thatentered the French dictionary 2 or 12 years ago. The NWQ assessesthe abilities (1) to give definitions for these words, (2) to decidewhich of three definitions is accurate, and (3) to choose which oftwo sentences containing the word is correct. Quantitative andqualitative analysis of responses were carried out by distinguishingconceptual definitions from operational definitions in terms of useand quotations from examples.Results: Patients with MCI demonstrate lower performance thancontrols in the 3 tasks. Their pattern of performance is characterizedby difficulties discriminating the accurate definition rather thanselecting the correct context. This difference increases in patientswith AD. In addition, patients with MCI often provide examples inorder to compensate for their conceptual difficulties, whereaspatients with AD fail to use this strategy. Finally, the transition to AD changes the pattern of correlations between performance in theNWQ, episodic memory, and executive functioning.Conclusion: The NWQ may be useful to characterize the cognitiveprofile associated with MCI and to assess AD conversion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nathalie Bedoin•  44  Spanish, Pragmatics, Semantics, SociolinguisticsIs Alzheimer’s Disease Contagious.pdfIf you think that you and your family are immune to the surging epidemic of neurodegenerative disease, think again. Neurodegenerative disease, including Alzheimer’s disease, is the fastest-growing cause of death in the world. It’s getting... moreIf you think that you and your family are immune to the surging epidemic of neurodegenerative disease, think again. Neurodegenerative disease, including Alzheimer’s disease, is the fastest-growing cause of death in the world. It’s getting worse every day thanks to mismanagement and misinformation.Infectious proteins known as prions are involved with most forms of neurodegenerative disease. Prion disease is known in neurology as transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE). The operative word is “transmissible.” The global epidemic has more to do with the prion contagion than age.Dr. Stanley Prusiner, an American neuroscientist from the University of California at San Francisco, earned a Nobel Prize in 1997 for discovering and characterizing deadly prions and prion disease. Prusiner claims that all TSEs, including Alzheimer’s disease, are caused by prions.President Obama awarded Prusiner the National Medal of Science in 2010 to recognize the importance of his research. According to Prusiner, TSEs are a spectrum disease. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, which is extremely aggressive and extremely transmissible, is at the extreme end of the spectrum. Unfortunately, Prusiner’s science is being ignored and we are facing a public health disaster because of the negligence.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gary Chandler•  16  Neuroscience, Nursing, Neurology, Infectious disease epidemiologyPlato-Leibniz and Alzheimer's diseaseSave to LibraryDownloadby Roger B Clough•  18  Neuroscience, Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Philosophy of MindTHERAPEUTIC GARDEN DESIGN FOR PATIENTS WITH NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASESThis paper explores the concept of therapeutic gardens surrounding healthcare institutions treating neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Dementias. It fo-cuses on how the design of such spaces can address the specific needs... moreThis paper explores the concept of therapeutic gardens surrounding healthcare institutions treating neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Dementias. It fo-cuses on how the design of such spaces can address the specific needs of residents, and describes the recent studies concerning the most relevant guidelines for therapeutic garden design near hospitals, medical centers, and retirement homes. The literature study is compared with results of our recent study on the brain response to different landscape-design features. According to which an outdoor space with a high level of design compatibility , inward space composition, a clear communication and signage system, while introducing archetypal elements and factoring several visual nuances, can be especially beneficial for patients with neurodegenerative diseases.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jakub Bil•  32  Landscape Ecology, Neuroscience, Psychology, NeuropsychologyCognitive Impairment, Neuroimaging, and Alzheimer Neuropathology in Mouse Models of Down SyndromeDown syndrome (DS) is the most common non-lethal genetic condition that affects approximately 1 in 700 births in the United States of America. DS is characterized by complete or segmental chromosome 21 trisomy, which leads to variable... moreDown syndrome (DS) is the most common non-lethal genetic condition that affects approximately 1 in 700 births in the United States of America. DS is characterized by complete or segmental chromosome 21 trisomy, which leads to variable intellectual disabilities, progressive memory loss, and accelerated neurodegeneration with age. During the last three decades, people with DS have experienced a doubling of life expectancy due to progress in treatment of medical comorbidities, which has allowed this population to reach the age when they develop early onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Individuals with DS develop cognitive and pathological hallmarks of AD in their fourth or fifth decade, and are currently lacking successful prevention or treatment options for dementia. The profound memory deficits associated with DS-related AD (DS-AD) have been associated with degeneration of several neuronal populations, but mechanisms of neurodegeneration are largely unexplored. The most successful animal model for DS is the Ts65Dn mouse, but several new models have also been developed. In the current review, we discuss recent findings and potential treatment options for the management of memory loss and AD neuropathology in DS mouse models. We also review age-related neuropathology, and recent findings from neuroimaging studies. The validation of appropriate DS mouse models that mimic neurodegeneration and memory loss in humans with DS can be valuable in the study of novel preventative and treatment interventions, and may be helpful in pinpointing gene-gene interactions as well as specific gene segments involved in neurodegeneration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers•  32  Alzheimer's Disease, Alzheimer and Language, Down Syndrome Language, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalNeuropyrosis: Receptive Quotient and its role in Alzheimer’s DiseaseSave to LibraryDownloadby Anand M Kumar•  5  Alzheimer's Disease, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Dopaminergic Neurotransmision, Dopamine3. The Three-Vessel Occlusion as a Model of Vascular Dementia – Oxidative Stress and Mitochondrial Failure as an Indicator of Brain HypoperfusionSave to LibraryDownloadby Ghulam Md Ashraf•  6  Dementia, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Vascular dementia, Mild Cognitive Impairment, Dementia, Alzheimer's diseaseEvaluation of Emotional Blunting in Behavioral Variant Frontotemporal Dementia Compared to Alzheimer's Disease Key Words Scale for Emotional Blunting · Dementia · CaregiverSave to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Barsuglia•  3  Neuropsychology, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Frontotemporal DementiaWPW article 1983Save to LibraryDownloadby Joy  Fox•  4  Neuropsychology, Memory (Cognitive Psychology), Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, NeuroplasticityVisuospatial memory in healthy elderly, AD and MCI: a reviewIn the literature it is commonly reported that several spatial abilities decline with normal aging, even though such a decline is not uniform. So far, it is not yet clear which spatial components present a normal age-related decline,... moreIn the literature it is commonly reported that several spatial abilities decline with normal aging, even though such a decline is not uniform. So far, it is not yet clear which spatial components present a normal age-related decline, which ones are preserved and at what point the deficit is so severe to represent an index of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or a symptom of potential degenerative progression as in the early-stage Alzheimer’s disease (AD). In particular, AD (from early onset) is characterised by impairments in constructive abilities, visuospatial intelligence, spatial shortterm memory deficits, and disorders of spatial orientation (topographical disorientation). MCI indicates a condition, generally affecting older individuals, characterized by cognitive deficits including memory and/or non memory impairments and at high risk of progression to dementia. Three MCI subgroups have been distinguished and a very high risk of developing AD is associated to the amnestic MCI subtypes. Further, recent studies have suggested that the allocentric component of spatial memory might be taken as predictor of AD from MCI. Given the frequency of visuospatial deficits in early-stage AD, evaluation of visuospatial processes is a promising approach to find predictive markers of AD. Here we report a review of the literature exploring specific visuospatial components in normal aging, MCI, and AD. In this way we could shed some light on the role of these components in the progression from MCI to AD and pave the way for future studies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Francesco Ruotolo•  8  Cognitive Science, Alzheimer's Disease, Aging, Mild Cognitive ImpairmentSalivary biomarkers in Alzheimer disease Gustavo SantosThe hypotheses currently considered the most likely causes of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are amyloid beta peptide deposition in the cerebral cortex and hyperphosphorylation of the Tau protein, with the consequent formation of... moreThe hypotheses currently considered the most likely causes of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are amyloid beta peptide deposition in the cerebral cortex and hyperphosphorylation of the Tau protein, with the consequent formation of neurofibrillary tangles. In clinical practice, although not accurate, AD diagnosis is based on the exclusion of other diseases, behavioural assessments and complementary examinations, such as imaging and blood tests. Advances in the field of biotechnology have created exciting prospects for the early detection of AD via biomarker assessment, which is considered a safer and more efficient procedure. Molecules recognised as biomarkers can be expressed in some body fluids, including cerebrospinal fluid, saliva and blood. The presence of amyloid beta peptide and Tau can be confirmed in saliva, which is also an easily and non-invasively collectable material with an accessible cost. The objective was evaluate the concentrations of the t-Tau protein and Ab42 peptide in the saliva of elderly individuals with and without dementia of the AD type Method: The objective of this case-control study, involving a total of 120 individuals, was to analyse whether a correlation exists between variations in the concentrations of the t-Tau and Ab42 biomarkers in the saliva of patients with confirmed AD and individuals in the inclusion group but without AD . We found that t-Tau expression in AD patients is significantly lower than that in individuals without AD, whereas the salivary concentration of Ab42 is higher in patients with AD but not significantly different from that of the group without AD . Conclusion: Thus, we demonstrate the feasibility of using salivary biomarkers as predictive markers for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gustavo Santos•  8  Pharmacology, Pharmacy, Alzheimer's Disease, BiomarkersALZHEIMER’S DISEASE AS A NEUROCOGNITIVE DISORDERSave to LibraryDownloadby Mehmet Akif Elen•  8  Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, DSM-VA comparative study of behavioral and psychological symptoms in patients with vascular and Alzheimer dementiaBackground Dementia is a common, disabling disorder of the elderly. With the steady growth in the older population, the rate of dementia is expected to increase two fold by 2030 and three fold by 2050. Dementia of Alzheimer Type (DAT) and... moreBackground Dementia is a common, disabling disorder of the elderly. With the steady growth in the older population, the rate of dementia is expected to increase two fold by 2030 and three fold by 2050. Dementia of Alzheimer Type (DAT) and vascular dementia (VD) are among the most common types of dementia. Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are associated with increased patient morbidity and carer burden.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sarah Javed•  9  Dementia, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Ageing and Health, Dementia CareLo que la psicología le debe a las demenciasEn el mundo hoy en día, la enfermedad de Alzheimer se encuentra dentro de las principales causas de muerte y discapacidad y no son pocos son los que consideramos que debe afrontarse como un problema de salud pública, más aun dado los... moreEn el mundo hoy en día, la enfermedad de Alzheimer se encuentra dentro de las principales causas de muerte y discapacidad y no son pocos son los que consideramos que debe afrontarse como un problema de salud pública, más aun dado los pronósticos de crecimiento del número de afectados para mediados de este siglo. En la actualidad, esta demencia se presenta sin una cura ni forma de prevenir, siendo el diagnóstico precoz la mejor estrategia que permite el uso de medicamentos –eficaces si se administran en etapas tempranas- y cambios en el estilo de vida que ayuden a retrasar la aparición de los síntomas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Roberto  Polanco - Carrasco•  6  Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Mild Cognitive Impairment, Dementia, Alzheimer's disease, Dementia and Alzheimer, Evaluación en demenciasWhy Are the Right and Left Hemisphere Conceptual Representations DifferentThe present survey develops a previous position paper, in which I suggested that the multimodal semantic impairment observed in advanced stages of semantic dementia is due to the joint disruption of pictorial and verbal representations,... moreThe present survey develops a previous position paper, in which I suggested that the multimodal semantic impairment observed in advanced stages of semantic dementia is due to the joint disruption of pictorial and verbal representations, subtended by the right and left anterior temporal lobes, rather than to the loss of a unitary, amodal semantic system. The main goals of the present review are (a) to survey a larger set of data, in order to confirm the differences in conceptual representations at the level of the right and left hemispheres, (b) to examine if language-mediated information plays a greater role in left hemisphere semantic knowledge than sensory-motor information in right hemisphere conceptual knowledge, and (c) to discuss the models that could explain both the differences in conceptual representations at the hemispheric level and the prevalence of the left hemisphere language-mediated semantic knowledge over the right hemisphere perceptually based conceptual representations.Save to LibraryDownloadby G. Gainotti•Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalClinical Assessment of Cognitive Decline in Adults with Down SyndromeDown syndrome is an intellectual disability requiring periodic monitoring of cognition given the near universal presence of Alzheimer’s Disease related neuropathology and high rates of dementia in middle adulthood. We review current... moreDown syndrome is an intellectual disability requiring periodic monitoring of cognition given the near universal presence of Alzheimer’s Disease related neuropathology and high rates of dementia in middle adulthood. We review current approaches to detecting decline in this population, including informant-based measures, dementia screening tools, and neuroimaging techniques. The challenges for detecting decline in this group are discussed, including the need to take into account premorbid cognitive function as well as medical comorbidity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers•  22  Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Alzheimer and Language, Down Syndrome LanguageNoradrenergic System in Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's Disease A Target for TherapyLocus coeruleus (LC) neurons in the brainstem send extensive noradrenergic (NE)-ergic terminals to the majority of brain regions, particularly those involved in cognitive function. Both Alz-heimer's disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS) are... moreLocus coeruleus (LC) neurons in the brainstem send extensive noradrenergic (NE)-ergic terminals to the majority of brain regions, particularly those involved in cognitive function. Both Alz-heimer's disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS) are characterized by similar pathology including significant LC degeneration and dysfunction of the NE-ergic system. Extensive loss of NE-ergic terminals has been linked to alterations in brain regions vital for cognition, mood, and executive function. While the mechanisms by which NE-ergic abnormalities contribute to cognitive dysfunction are not fully understood, emergent evidence suggests that rescue of NE-ergic system can attenuate neuropathology and cogni-tive decline in both AD and DS. Therapeutic strategies to enhance NE neurotransmission have undergone limited testing. Among those deployed to date are NE reuptake inhibitors, presynaptic α-adrenergic receptor antagonists, NE prodrugs, and β-adrenergic agonists. Here we examine alterations in the NE-ergic system in AD and DS and suggest that NE-ergic system rescue is a plausible treatment strategy for targeting cognitive decline in both disorders.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers•  20  Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Down Syndrome Language, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalThe NGF Metabolic Pathway in the CNS and its Dysregulation in Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's DiseaseIt is well established that individuals with Down syndrome develop Alzheimer's disease neuropathology by middle age. Both in Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome, this is accompanied by the atrophy of NGF-dependent cholinergic neurons of... moreIt is well established that individuals with Down syndrome develop Alzheimer's disease neuropathology by middle age. Both in Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome, this is accompanied by the atrophy of NGF-dependent cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. An NGF trophic compromise in Alzheimer's disease had been early suspected. This hypothesis was discarded with the finding of unaltered NGF mRNA synthesis and of increased NGF precursor levels (proNGF) in post-mortem Alzheimer's disease brains. The possibility of an NGF trophic disconnection has been recently revisited at the light of a newly discovered extracellular NGF metabolic pathway; where proNGF is released in an activity-dependent manner and converted by plasmin to mature NGF in the extracellular space. Mature NGF is ultimately degraded by the metalloprotease MMP-9. This pathway has been shown to be compromised in Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome brains, thus reviving the trophic factor hypothesis to explain the atrophy of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in these disorders. This chapter will discuss the physiological role of NGF and its biological significance to cho-linergic neurons of the CNS, and present the evidence for a dysregulation of the NGF metabolism in Alzheimer's disease and Down syndrome.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers•  24  Metabolism, Alzheimer's Disease, Signal transduction in inflammation, Alzheimer and LanguageQuantitative Evaluation of Changes in the Clock-Watching Behavior of a Patient With Semantic DementiaBackground: Clockwatching activity in dementia patients has not been documented in detail. Methods: A male patient suffering from semantic dementia was monitored at a dementia care unit in a general hospital in Japan. We used an... moreBackground: Clockwatching activity in dementia patients has not been documented in detail.Methods: A male patient suffering from semantic dementia was monitored at a dementia care unit in a general hospital in Japan. We used an integrated-circuit monitoring system to record the distance and location of ambulation and the total number of movements that occurred outside the patient’s room. Results: The subject was reported to clockwatch a couple of years prior to monitoring. In 2011, when monitoring started he regularly came out of his room saying, “8 o’clock” about 40 minutes into every hour. It seemed as if he could only recognize the minute hand. The median number of sensor detections increased by 4-fold at this clockwatching phase. Behavior consistent with his clockwatching patterns was also detected during the night. In 2012, clockwatching activity disappeared. Conclusions: This study documented the progression of clockwatching and subsequent disappearance with worsening cognitive function.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kiyoko  Makimoto•Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And FrontotemporalAlzheimer's Aβ fused to green fluorescent protein induces growth stress and a heat shock responseThe 42 amino acid Alzheimer’s Ab peptide is involved in the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. Here we describe the effects of intracellular Ab, produced through its attachment to either end of a green fluorescent protein, in yeast.... moreThe 42 amino acid Alzheimer’s Ab peptide is involved in the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. Here we describe the effects of intracellular Ab, produced through its attachment to either end of a green fluorescent protein, in yeast. Cells producing Ab exhibited a lower growth yield and a heat shock response, showing that Ab fusions promote stress in cells and supporting the notion that intracellular Ab is a toxic molecule. These studies have relevance in understanding the role of Ab in the death of neuronal cells, and indicate that yeast may be a new tractable model system forthe screening for inhibitors of the stress caused by Ab.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Macreadie•  5  Alzheimer's Disease, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Alzeihmer's Treatment, Aging & Alzheimer's DiseaseNoradrenergic System in Down Syndrome and Alzheimer’s Disease A Target for TherapyLocus coeruleus (LC) neurons in the brainstem send extensive noradrenergic (NE)-ergic terminals to the majority of brain regions, particularly those involved in cognitive function. Both Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS) are... moreLocus coeruleus (LC) neurons in the brainstem send extensive noradrenergic (NE)-ergic terminals to the majority of brain regions, particularly those involved in cognitive function. Both Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS) are characterized by similar pathology including significant LC degeneration and dysfunction of the NE-ergic system. Extensive loss of NE-ergic terminals has been linked to alterations in brain regions vital for cognition, mood, and executive function. While the mechanisms by which NE-ergic abnormalities contribute to cognitive dysfunction are not fully understood, emergent evidence suggests that rescue of NE-ergic system can attenuate neuropathology and cognitive decline in both AD and DS. Therapeutic strategies to enhance NE neurotransmission have undergone limited testing. Among those deployed to date are NE reuptake inhibitors, presynaptic α-adrenergic receptor antagonists, NE prodrugs, and β-adrenergic agonists. Here we examine alterations in the NE-ergic system in AD and DS and suggest that NE-ergic system rescue is a plausible treatment strategy for targeting cognitive decline in both disorders.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers and +1Ahmad Salehi M.D., Ph.D•  23  Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Alzheimer and Language, Down Syndrome LanguageRole of Trisomy 21 Mosaicism in Sporadic and Familial Alzheimer’s DiseaseTrisomy 21 and the consequent extra copy of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene and increased beta-amyloid (Aβ) peptide production underlie the universal development of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) pathology and high risk of AD dementia... moreTrisomy 21 and the consequent extra copy of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene and increased beta-amyloid (Aβ) peptide production underlie the universal development of Alzheimer’s disease (AD) pathology and high risk of AD dementia in people with Down syndrome (DS). Trisomy 21 and other forms of aneuploidy also arise among neurons and peripheral cells in both sporadic and familial AD and in mouse and cell models thereof, reinforcing the conclusion that AD and DS are two sides of the same coin. The demonstration that 90% of the neurodegeneration in AD can be attributed to the selective loss of aneuploid neurons generated over the course of the disease indicates that aneuploidy is an essential feature of the pathogenic pathway leading to the depletion of neuronal cell populations. Trisomy 21 mosaicism also occurs in neurons and other cells from patients with Niemann-Pick C1 disease and from patients with familial or sporadic frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), as well as in their corresponding mouse and cell models. Biochemical studies have shown that Aβ induces mitotic spindle defects, chromosome mis-segregation, and aneuploidy in cultured cells by inhibiting specific microtubule motors required for mitosis. These data indicate that neuronal trisomy 21 and other types of aneuploidy characterize and likely contribute to multiple neurodegenerative diseases and are a valid target for therapeutic intervention. For example, reducing extracellular calcium or treating cells with lithium chloride (LiCl) blocks the induction of trisomy 21 by Aβ. The latter finding is relevant in light of recent reports of a lowered risk of dementia in bipolar patients treated with LiCl and in the stabilization of cognition in AD patients treated with LiCl.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers•  21  Alzheimer's Disease, Neurogenesis, Down Syndrome Language, Adult neurogenesisAlzheimer's disease and Meinong's bitcoin mindSave to LibraryDownloadby Roger B Clough•  15  Neuroscience, Neuropsychology, Philosophy of Mind, Alzheimer's DiseaseBaseline and longitudinal grey matter changes in newly diagnosed Parkinson's disease: ICICLE-PD studyMild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease is associated with progression to dementia (Parkinson's disease dementia) in a majority of patients. Determining structural imaging biomarkers associated with prodromal Parkinson's disease... moreMild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease is associated with progression to dementia (Parkinson's disease dementia) in a majority of patients. Determining structural imaging biomarkers associated with prodromal Parkinson's disease dementia may allow for the earlier identification of those at risk, and allow for targeted disease modifying therapies. One hundred and five non-demented subjects with newly diagnosed idiopathic Parkinson's disease and 37 healthy matched controls had serial 3 T structural magnetic resonance imaging scans with clinical and neuropsychological assessments at baseline, which were repeated after 18 months. The Movement Disorder Society Task Force criteria were used to classify the Parkinson's disease subjects into Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment (n = 39) and Parkinson's disease with no cognitive impairment (n = 66). Freesurfer image processing software was used to measure cortical thickness and subcortical volumes at baseline and follow-up. We compared regional percentage change of cortical thinning and subcortical atrophy over 18 months. At baseline, cases with Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment demonstrated widespread cortical thinning relative to controls and atrophy of the nucleus accumbens compared to both controls and subjects with Parkinson's disease with no cognitive impairment. Regional cortical thickness at baseline was correlated with global cognition in the combined Parkinson's disease cohort. Over 18 months, patients with Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment demonstrated more severe cortical thinning in frontal and temporo-parietal cortices, including hippocampal atrophy, relative to those with Parkinson's disease and no cognitive impairment and healthy controls, whereas subjects with Parkinson's disease and no cognitive impairment showed more severe frontal cortical thinning compared to healthy controls. At baseline, Parkinson's disease with no cognitive impairment converters showed bilateral temporal cortex thinning relative to the Parkinson's disease with no cognitive impairment stable subjects. Although loss of both cortical and subcortical volume occurs in non-demented Parkinson's disease, our longitudinal analyses revealed that Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment shows more extensive atrophy and greater percentage of cortical thinning compared to Parkinson's disease with no cognitive impairment. In particular, an extension of cortical thinning in the temporo-parietal regions in addition to frontal atrophy could be a biomarker in therapeutic studies of mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease for progression towards dementia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elijah Mak•  8  Neuroscience, Psychology, Neuroimaging, DementiaKeeper of the CloudsOn Alzheimer's and being in the momentSave to LibraryDownloadby Liza  Futerman•  32  Creative Writing, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive Science, Comparative LiteratureCategory-Specificity: Evidence for Modularity of MindFrom a neuropsychological perspective, our understanding about how knowledge is organized in the human brain has emerged largely from the study of so-called ‘category-specific’ deficits in neurological patients. Category-specificity is,... moreFrom a neuropsychological perspective, our understanding about how knowledge is organized in the human brain has emerged largely from the study of so-called ‘category-specific’ deficits in neurological patients. Category-specificity is, in very broad terms, the relative loss of cognitive performance in one domain of knowledge over another. The most frequently reported and discussed pattern concerns a dissociation between knowledge about nonliving things (e.g. tools) and living things (e.g. animals). Most reports of categorical impairment have emerged from case studies of patients with pathologies such as herpes simplex encephalitis, strokes or head injuries and the dementias (especially Alzheimer's disease). These category specific effects have been fundamental in forming theories and models about the organization and modular structure of semantic knowledge in the brain. The different chapters of this book illustrate a broad range of interesting and strongly debated issues arising from the category-specific literature, all of them fundamental to cognitive neuropsychology. This book, written by researchers who during the last decade have intensively researched this intriguing field, present an up-to-date exploration of major neuropsychological issues that have general implications beyond the field of category knowledge e.g. issues such as modularity, computational modeling of cognitive processing, gender-related asymmetries and functional imaging. Table of Contents: Chapter 1. INTRODUCTION Chapter 2. EXAMINING SEMANTIC MEMORY: ASSESSMENT  Chapter 3. EXPLAINING CATEGORY SPECIFICTY: MODELS  Chapter 4. PSYCHOLINGUISTIC AND COGNITIVE INFLUENCES: NUISANCE VARIABLES AND CONFOUNDS  Chapter 5. DISSOCIATIONS, DOUBLE DISSOCIATIONS AND CATEGORY SPECIFICITY: METHODOLOGICAL ISSUES  Chapter 6. A ROLE FOR EVOLUTION OR EXPERIENCE: SEX DIFFERENCES  Chapter 7. INTACT AND IMPAIRED FUNCTION ARE TWO SIDES OF THE SAME COIN: CATEGORY EFFECTS IN NORMAL SUBJECTS  Chapter 8. BIOLOGICAL CATEGORIES IN DISTRIBUTED COMPUTATIONAL SYSTEMS: NEURAL NETWORKS  Chapter 9. LOCALISED CATEGORIES IN THE CORTEX? FUNCTIONAL IMAGING AND LESION DATASave to Libraryby Keith Laws•  34  Neuroscience, Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, Cognitive ScienceTherapeutic Implications of Integrating Counseling and Pharmacology for the Treatment of Major Neurocognitive DisordersThe purpose of this paper is to illustrate the implications of pharmaceutical and counseling treatment to individuals suffering from three specific domains of major neurocognitive disorders, also known as dementia: Alzheimer’s disease... moreThe purpose of this paper is to illustrate the implications of pharmaceutical and counseling treatment to individuals suffering from three specific domains of major neurocognitive disorders, also known as dementia: Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Lewy Body disease (LBD) and vascular disease (VD). Initial onset symptoms are often similar in the three domains of dementia; however, pharmaceutical treatment that is not congruent with accurate disease detection can be ineffective or harmful (Alz.org, 2018). Unfortunately, medication and counseling only temporarily reduce some symptom severity, and cannot cure any of the afflictions (Irreversible Dementias, 2015). Still, caretakers who continue applying positive therapeutic behavior techniques within their custodial interactions forge maximized opportunities for patients to feel safe and loved within any stage of dementia (Takeda et al, 2012).Save to LibraryDownloadby Shannon Frank-Richter•  10  Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Neuropsychology Of Dementia Lewy Body, Alzheimer's And Frontotemporal, Dementia CareClinical Assessment of Cognitive Decline in Adults with Down SyndromeDown syndrome is an intellectual disability requiring periodic monitoring of cognition given the near universal presence of Alzheimer's Disease related neuropathology and high rates of dementia in middle adulthood. We review current... moreDown syndrome is an intellectual disability requiring periodic monitoring of cognition given the near universal presence of Alzheimer's Disease related neuropathology and high rates of dementia in middle adulthood. We review current approaches to detecting decline in this population, including informant-based measures, dementia screening tools, and neuroimaging techniques. The challenges for detecting decline in this group are discussed, including the need to take into account premorbid cognitive function as well as medical comorbidity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bentham  Science Publishers•  14  Assessment, Dementia, Alzheimer's Disease, Assessment in Higher EducationBiological Rhythm Research Sleep quality and daily lifestyle regularity in workers with different working hoursSave to LibraryDownloadby John F Araújo and +1Ka Valente•  13  Cognitive Psychology, Health Psychology, Working Memory, Cognitive NeuropsychologyNextLast »Related TopicsDementiaFollowFollowingMild Cognitive Impairment, Dementia, Alzheimer's diseaseFollowFollowingNeuropsychologyFollowFollowingNeuropsychology of Ageing and DementiaFollowFollowingFrontotemporal DementiaFollowFollowingAlzheimer's DiseaseFollowFollowingDementia CareFollowFollowingCognitive NeuropsychologyFollowFollowingEarly Onset DementiaFollowFollowingAlzheimer DementiaFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023