Technology – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
TechnologyWe keep Wikimedia projects fast, reliable, and available to all.From hosting Wikipedia to creating edit-checking artificial intelligence (AI), we design and build the open-source technology that powers Wikimedia projects. Community volunteers and Foundation technologists collaborate on MediaWiki, the platform that makes sharing free knowledge possible.
Hosting the world’s knowledgeWikipedia is one of the top most-visited websites in the world, accessed by 1.7 billion unique devices every month. Our infrastructure keeps it online. 
Making Wikipedia easier to useThrough technical and design improvements to Wikipedia’s desktop and more, we make the site easier to use and more welcoming for readers and contributors alike.
Assisting human collaboration with machine learningAnyone can edit Wikipedia, and it can be challenging to maintain quality control. That is why we made ORES, an artificial intelligence service that automatically identifies potentially problematic content as soon as it appears, advising editors if changes are needed.
Helping NASANASA’s internal wiki for collaboration and documentation is built on MediaWiki, just like Wikipedia. We create MediaWiki—open-source wiki software that is free and available for anyone.
Mentoring new developersTo help build a more diverse and inclusive technical community, the Wikimedia Foundation funds, supports, and mentors new developers and underrepresented groups in tech.
Growing a volunteer developer communityOver half of the commits made to our codebase are pushed by volunteers. We actively support a thriving volunteer technology community, with grants, events, and an open collaboration tool.
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
1.7 billion
unique devices access Wikimedia sites every month
Tweet this
6,000
views per second across Wikimedia sites
Tweet this
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
 
 
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI
Blog Post Equity Technology Wikipedia 
If there was a generative artificial intelligence system that could, on its own, write all the information contained in Wikipedia, would it be the same as Wikipedia today?
12 July 2023
By Selena Deckelmann 
Read more
 
Wikipedia Gets a Fresh New Look: First Desktop Update in a Decade Puts Usability at the Forefront
Community Deployment Technology Wikipedia 
The interface update, built in collaboration with Wikipedia volunteers worldwide, will make the site more welcoming, easier to use for everyone Update: On 4 May 2023, the desktop update was deployed to Spanish Wikipedia. The updated interface is now live on 95% of the 318 active language versions of Wikipedia for all desktop users. The….
18 January 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
Dive deeper into Wikimedia projects
MediaWikiOriginally created for use on Wikipedia, MediaWiki is free and open-source wiki software written in PHP.
ORESThe web service and API that provides machine learning as a service to flag bad edits and vandalism on Wikimedia projects.
Wikipedia for AndroidWikipedia at your fingertips on Android. Set your app to night reading mode or save articles to read offline.
Wikipedia for iOSWikipedia at your fingertips on iOS. Set your app to night reading mode or save articles to read offline.
APIsOur API provides straightforward access to Wikimedia content and data, in machine-readable formats.
WikistatsWikistats is a public dashboard featuring data about the reach and impact of Wikimedia projects.
Wikimedia EnterpriseFor organizations that reuse Wikimedia content: Wikimedia Enterprise is a commercial product that meets a range of high volume content reuse needs, providing streamlined, on-demand access to Wikimedia APIs with standard Service Level Agreements.
Photo credits
 
AI Blog header 02
Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Press Release - Wikipedia New Look
 
WikiDemocracy Event - May 2017
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
ZMcCune (WMF)
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Papaul Tshibamba-4
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Victor Grigas
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Tech-promo-box-Wikipedia-New-Look
 
Revscore WP
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Mun May Tee-Galloway
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
M101 hires STScI-PRC2006-10a
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
ESA/Hubble
CC BY 4.0
 
Wikimedia Hackathon 2013 - Flickr - Sebastiaan ter Burg (9)
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Sebastiaan ter Burg
CC BY 2.0
 
Wikimedia Hackathon Prague 2019 - 2019-05-18 - Group Picture
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Pierre-Selim Huard
CC BY 4.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.