Public Health Policy Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Public Health Policy100,134 FollowersRecent papers in Public Health PolicyTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleIntroduction: Transforming community-based and community-led HIV prevention and care through ICTsInformation and communication technology (ICT) is transforming community-based and community-led HIV prevention and care services for gay men, other men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender people. This book celebrates and shares... moreInformation and communication technology (ICT) is transformingcommunity-based and community-led HIV prevention and care services for gay men, other men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender people. This book celebrates and shares crucial work of frontline HIV workers, activists, researchers and educators whom are using innovative ICT.Save to LibraryDownloadby Chris Walsh and +1R. Cameron Wolf•  14  Digital Technology, Mobile Technology, HIV and AIDS education, HIV/AIDSPrinciples of Green Bioethics: Sustainability in Health Care (East Lansing: Michigan State University Press, 2019).Health care is ubiquitous in the lives of industrialized people. Yet, every medical development, technique, and procedure impact the environment. Green Bioethics synthesizes environmental ethics and biomedical ethics, thus creating an... moreHealth care is ubiquitous in the lives of industrialized people. Yet, every medical development, technique, and procedure impact the environment. Green Bioethics synthesizes environmental ethics and biomedical ethics, thus creating an interdisciplinary approach to sustainable health care. Notably, Green Bioethics addresses, not the structure of environmental sustainability in health care institutions, but the sustainability of individual health care offerings. Green Bioethics parallels traditional biomedical ethics by providing four principles for ethical guidance. Through these four principles, Green Bioethics presents a coherent framework for evaluating the sustainability of medical developments, techniques, and procedures. The principles of Green Bioethics are: - Distributive Justice (Allocate Basic Medical Resources before Special Interest Access)- Resource Conservation (Provide Health Care Needs before Health Care Wants)- Simplicity (Reduce Dependence on Medical Interventions)- Ethical Economics (Humanistic Health Care Instead of Financial Profit)The future of our world may very well depend on how effectively we halt ecological destruction and conserve our resources. The principles of Green Bioethics, in tandem with the concrete examples given in this book, will support sustainability in health care.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cristina Richie•  36  Economics, Environmental Economics, Ethics, Applied EthicsPhysician-Assisted Suicide: Slippery Slopes and Safeguards (Master's Thesis)Although physician-assisted suicide (PAS) is legal in several jurisdictions around the world, debate about its merits and implementation is far from settled. This debate has special, timely significance in Canada, as new PAS legislation... moreAlthough physician-assisted suicide (PAS) is legal in several jurisdictions around the world, debate about its merits and implementation is far from settled. This debate has special, timely significance in Canada, as new PAS legislation is imminent. (Controversial recommendations from the Joint Special Committee on Physician-Assisted Dying include PAS for mature minors, PAS in advance directives, and PAS for people with mental illness.)Slippery slope concerns are often at the centre of this debate—opponents worry that legalizing PAS in any form, however acceptable now, will inevitably lead to practices that are unacceptable. Concerns include risk of abuse and mistake, expansion of criteria, and an unobstructed path to euthanasia. Opponents also observe that those who support PAS on the basis of autonomy and suffering (common foundational arguments) are logically, on principle, committed to its expansion.As the literature reveals, the slippery slope debate is confusing and often misunderstood. This essay seeks to achieve clarity by investigating the two types of slippery slope arguments—empirical and logical. The validity of each slippery slope argument is considered, with the following results. Empirical slippery slope concerns have not been validated. Recent data from Oregon and Europe neither support nor disprove slippery slope claims conclusively. Low numbers of usage of PAS, particularly in Oregon, reduce fears. Logical slippery slope concerns, while theoretically compelling, can be assuaged by drawing a bright line between what is acceptable and what is unacceptable. Consistency of principle need not be the highest value if other compelling reasons exist to make this distinction. Generally, slippery slope arguments are addressed (by proponents of PAS) by pointing to qualifying thresholds or criteria, also known as safeguards.Two particular safeguards are then examined—determinations of capacity and suffering, respectively. Some questions addressed include:On what basis are physicians expected to assess capacity?On what basis are physicians expected to assess suffering, especially if terminal illness is not a criterion?To what extent can physicians make these determinations without also judging the patient’s quality of life?In exploring answers to these questions, significant doubt is raised as to the extent to which these criteria function as safeguards against slippery slope concerns. Physicians are faced with the near-impossible task of assessing capacity and determining suffering without inserting their personal judgment of whether the person really ought to die, and in this way. In addition, they must do so without meaningful guidelines to assist in making these determinations with fairness and consistency. Other than in obvious cases of incapacity, why would a physician ever say no? More importantly, how could a physician ever say no without risk of accusation of inappropriately judging another’s suffering? Indeed, even if a physician denies a request a more agreeable physician may be found.I conclude that, with the legalization of PAS in any form–particularly the form proposed in Canada –the promise of safeguards as protections proves illusory.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jennifer Johannesen•  5  Bioethics, Public Health Policy, Critical Bioethics, Physician-Assisted SuicideMédicos, especialistas, políticos y funcionarios en la organización centralizada de la profilaxis de las enfermedades venéreas en la Argentina (1930-1954)El trabajo analiza la creación en la Argentina, entre los años 1930 y 1954, de una estructura administrativa nacional, orientada a la prevención y el tratamiento de las enfermedades venéreas. Dicho esfuerzo responde a un proyecto... moreEl trabajo analiza la creación en la Argentina, entre los años 1930 y 1954, de unaestructura administrativa nacional, orientada a la prevención y el tratamiento de las enfermedadesvenéreas. Dicho esfuerzo responde a un proyecto político de un grupo de médicos,quienes intentaron dar respuesta a los problemas sociales desde el ámbito de la higiene ycolonizar la estructura burocrática del Estado en su calidad de expertos. Por otro lado,indaga acerca del proceso de especialización de las disciplinas encargadas de estas enfermedadesy su reconocimiento oficial como especialidades médicas.PALABRAS CLAVE: Enfermedades venéreas, profilaxis, legislación, burocracia, especialidades médicas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carolina Biernat•  19  History, Sexual and Reproductive Health, History of Medicine, Public Health PolicySituația sanitar-veterinară a orașului Craiova reflectată într-un document inedit de la începutul secolului XXThe modernization of the city of Craiova at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century began with difficulty and alternated, with periods of rapid progress followed by stagnation. Or, in the conditions of increasing... moreThe modernization of the city of Craiova at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century began with difficulty and alternated, with periods of rapid progress followed by stagnation. Or, in the conditions of increasing the number of population but also of its necessities, it was necessary, for the communal administration, to start the development and modernization projects of Craiova. The following were included in this line: the construction of the communal slaughterhouse starting with 1892, being improved in the following years and the construction of the refrigeration installations. These two achievements would have a particularly beneficial impact on the constant meat supply of the population.In addition, there were a number of reports drawn up by the doctors represented on the Council aimed at clarifying some issues that went beyond the competences of the other members. Such a unique example,discovered within the County Service of National Archives, Dolj branch, is reported in 1908 by veterinarian Vucol Augustin who does not radiographically reveal the sanitary-veterinary situation of Craiova with thepossibility of deciphering the evolution of public health in the city.Modernizarea orașului Craiova la sfârșitul secolului al XIX-le și începutul secolului XX a început anevoios și a alternat, cu perioade de progres rapid urmate de stagnare. Ori, în condițiile creșterii numărului populației dar și a necesităților acesteia, se impunea administrației comunale demarareaproiectelor de dezvoltare și modernizare ale Craiovei. Pe această linie s-au înscris: construirea Abatorului comunal începând cu anul 1892, fiind îmbunătățit în anii următori și construirea instalațiilor frigorifere.Aceste două realizări aveau să aibă un impact deosebit de benefic asupra alimentării constante cu carne a populației. Pe lângă acestea au existat o serie de rapoarte întocmite de medicii reprezentați în Consiliu care aveaumenirea de a clarifica unele aspect ce depășeau competențele celorlalți membri. Un astfel de exemplu, inedit, descoperit în cadrul Serviciului Județean al Arhivelor Naționale, filiala Dolj, este raportul pe anul1908 al medicului veterinar Vucol Augustin care ne dezvăluie radiografic situația sanitar-veterinară a orașului Craiova cu posibilitatea descifrării evoluției sănătății publice din oraș.Save to LibraryDownloadby Popescu-Vava Lucian•  2  History of Public Health, Public Health PolicyIL MANUALE DEI CAREGIVER FAMILIARIFinalmente il mio libro “Il manuale dei caregiver familiari”   si può scaricare gratuitamente.Un ringraziamento speciale a Maggioli Editore e alla Fondazione Cenci Gallingani che l’hanno permesso.Save to LibraryDownloadby Franco Pesaresi•  7  Social Policy, Long Term Care, Public Health Policy, Public HealthSANITA' E SOCIALE NEL PNRRTutti i finanziamenti e le riforme per il welfare contenute nel PNRR.welfare ebook n. 3/2021Save to LibraryDownloadby Franco Pesaresi•  7  Social Policy, Long Term Care, Public Health Policy, Public HealthMultinationalism, Constitutional Asymmetry and COVID: UK Responses to the PandemicThis article explores how the asymmetric institutionalization of the United Kingdom’s multinationality interacted with the COVID-19 pandemic. The UK’s political elite has traditionally accepted the country’s multinational character, but... moreThis article explores how the asymmetric institutionalization of the United Kingdom’s multinationality interacted with the COVID-19 pandemic. The UK’s political elite has traditionally accepted the country’s multinational character, but democratic institutionalization of it occurred relatively recently and in a remarkably asymmetric manner. Only the UK’s minority nations possess devolved governments, while the largest nation, England, is governed directly from the center. This framework has consequences for the pandemic response. It has clarified the relevance of devolved legislatures, but also highlights continued resistance of the UK’s governing elite to acknowledge the multi-level character of the state.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ailsa Henderson and +1Karlo Basta•  15  British Politics, Politics, Nationalism, Public Health PolicyFemale genital mutilation (FGM) and male circumcision: Should there be a separate ethical discourse?It is sometimes argued that the non-therapeutic, non-consensual alteration of children’s genitals should be discussed in two separate ethical discourses: one for girls (in which such alterations should be termed ‘female genital... moreIt is sometimes argued that the non-therapeutic, non-consensual alteration of children’s genitals should be discussed in two separate ethical discourses: one for girls (in which such alterations should be termed ‘female genital mutilation’ or FGM), and one for boys (in which such alterations should be termed ‘male circumcision’). In this article, I call into question the moral and empirical basis for such a distinction, and argue that all children—whether female, male, or intersex—should be free from having parts of their genitals removed unless there is a pressing medical indication.Save to LibraryDownloadby Brian D. Earp•  123  Religion, Sociology, Cultural Studies, Political SociologyThe Anger Manual to Help Reduce Anger in Society (social change download)People abused by angry discipline as children, may tend to abuse or overly punish other people or themselves for perceived wrongs in their adult life. In some individuals, aggressive personality traits may be genetically inherited. The... morePeople abused by angry discipline as children, may tend to abuse or overly punish other people or themselves for perceived wrongs in their adult life. In some individuals, aggressive personality traits may be genetically inherited. The aggressive personality may feel weakened by having guidelines or boundaries for anger. Anger is a normal human emotion, and these guidelines can help express anger in a healthy way.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Keeran MSW•  172  Industrial And Labor Relations, Organizational Behavior, Management, Cultural StudiesKeto Strong Reviews & Complaints- Is Keto Strong Legitmate or ScamIf you are like the general public and you are specifically healthful, then the quantity of you need goes to be small. If you are attempting to growth the quantity of Keto Strong Reviews in your frame actually, strive eating Keto Strong... moreIf you are like the general public and you are specifically healthful, then the quantity of you need goes to be small. If you are attempting to growth the quantity of Keto Strong Reviews in your frame actually, strive eating Keto Strong Reviews wealthy meals earlier than attempting it as a supplement. https://ipsnews.net/business/2021/09/22/keto-strong-reviews-price-shark-tank-bhb-diet-pills-scam-ingredients-or-side-effects/Save to LibraryDownloadby Keto Strong shark tank•Public Health PolicyCollaboration between health system decision makers and professional researchers to coproduce knowledge, a scoping reviewBackground. Recent literature uses different terms and approaches to the collaboration between researchers and health system decision-makers in the research process. In 2012, the World Health Organization’s proposed to “Embed research... moreBackground. Recent literature uses different terms and approaches to the collaboration between researchers and health system decision-makers in the research process.  In 2012, the World Health Organization’s proposed to “Embed research within decision-making processes”. Yet, important contributions use other terms and perspectives for the same issue. This scoping review aimed to identify these terms, approaches, their application and eventual influence on the utilization of evidence. Methods. We searched papers published between January, 2000 and February, 2019 in English, Spanish, French and Portuguese in the databases of PubMed, Scielo, Google Scholar and EBSCOhost, thus accessing MedicLatina, MEDLINE Complete and eBook Collection. Our main inclusion criterion was the participation of health personnel in non-clinical research activities. We considered three domains for in depth analysis: Definition, name and description of the participation of decision makers and health staff; Forms of collaboration and actual/effective participation of health staff in research; Impact on the utilization of research results. Results. We identified 607 articles and selected 74 for full text analysis. Nineteen different terms are currently used in twelve countries to describe the participation of health decision-makers and staff in research activities. Most publications refer to Integrated Knowledge Translation or Embedded Research, and were published in Canada and the United Kingdom. Forty-five papers discuss the participation of health staff in research activities; 20 leading the whole process and 21 as collaborators. Conclusions. The identification of the different terms and approaches to the close collaboration of health staff and decision-makers with professional researchers is essential to promote its effective application and influence on the utilization of evidence. Yet, it is also necessary to insist in their co-participation throughout the whole investigation process as a relevant way to improve research results uptake, strengthen health systems and advance towards universal health coverage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Víctor Becerril Montekio•  7  Public Health Policy, Public Health, Scoping review, Public health systems and services researchUncanny similarity of unique inserts in the 2019-nCoV spike protein to HIV-1 gp120 and GagWe are currently witnessing a major epidemic caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). The evolution of 2019-nCoV remains elusive. We found 4 insertions in the spike glycoprotein (S) which are unique to the 2019-nCoV and are not... moreWe are currently witnessing a major epidemic caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). The evolution of 2019-nCoV remains elusive. We found 4 insertions in the spike glycoprotein (S) which are unique to the 2019-nCoV and are not present in other coronaviruses. Importantly, amino acid residues in all the 4 inserts have identity or similarity to those in the HIV-1 gp120 or HIV-1 Gag. Interestingly, despite the inserts being discontinuous on the primary amino acid sequence, 3D-modelling of the 2019-nCoV suggests that they converge to constitute the receptor binding site. The finding of 4 unique inserts in the 2019-nCoV, all of which have identity /similarity to amino acid residues in key structural proteins of HIV-1 is unlikely to be fortuitous in nature. This work provides yet unknown insights on 2019-nCoV and sheds light on the evolution and pathogenicity of this virus with important implications for diagnosis of this virus.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bishwajit Kundu•  7  Bioengineering, Molecular Virology (Biology), Molecular Biology, Public Health PolicyUPDATING THE MINIMUM ELEMENTS AND PRACTICE STANDARDS FOR HIA TO REFLECT EVOLUTION IN THE FIELD OF PRACTICE: OPPORTUNITY FOR INPUTThe Minimum Elements and Practice Standards for Health Impact Assessment (MEPS) is undergoing its first update in six years. This document was first created to standardize health impact assessments (HIA) through specific guidance and... moreThe Minimum Elements and Practice Standards for Health Impact Assessment (MEPS) is undergoing its first update in six years. This document was first created to standardize health impact assessments (HIA) through specific guidance and benchmarks and describe best practices for how an HIA should be conducted. A group of leading HIA practitioners created the MEPS in 2009. Since then, it has been updated twice to reflect the evolution of HIA as a practice and the expanded use of HIA as a tool to implement health in all policies. This commentary describes current efforts to revise the MEPS in the context of continued learnings in the field.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sandra Whitehead and +1James E Dills•  4  Assessment, Public Health Policy, Health Impact Assessment, Public HealthThe Relationship between Environmental Performance Index, Economic Growth and Public Health Expenditures: Panel Cointegration ApproachIntroduction: Economic growth has a direct impact on public health expenditures; also, it indirectly affects public health expenditures through the environment's quality. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the relationship between... moreIntroduction: Economic growth has a direct impact on public health expenditures; also, it indirectly affects public health expenditures through the environment's quality. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the relationship between environmental performance index, economic growth, and public health expenditures in countries with high and very high human development index. Methods: The present descriptive-analytical and applied study was performed on 16 countries with high and very high human development index. The time-series data required for the years 2006-2018 were extracted from the World Bank and United Nations database and environmental performance index extracted from the Yale University website. Im, Pesaran and Shin (IPS), Levin, Lin, and Chu (LLC), Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF)-Fisher, and Phillips-Perron (PP)-Fisher tests for stationary and Pedroni and Kao tests for cointegration were used. The study model was estimated by the DOLS cointegration method in Eviews 10 software. Results: The mean environmental performance index for selected countries with very high and high human development index was 79.04 and 64.71, respectively; also, the elasticity of public health expenditures to gross national production, environmental performance index, physician supply, and urbanization ratio were 0.96,-2.41, 0.441 and 0.448, respectively. Conclusion: Increasing economic growth, urbanization ratio, and physician supply had a positive effect, and improving environmental performance index had a negative effect on public health expenditures. Therefore, to reduce public health expenditures, policies are recommended to maintain environmental sustainability and reduce environmental pollutants, and to invest in advanced equipment to purify pollutant gases. Maintaining and increasing economic growth is also essential for adopting policies to increase physicians and invest in health infrastructure.Save to LibraryDownloadby mahdi shahraki and +1simin ghaderi•Public Health PolicyEditorial: New Media and Risky Behavior of Children and Young People: Ethics and Policy Implications. Introducing the Themes and Pushing for More Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian Munthe•  15  Health Sciences, Ethics, Applied Ethics, BioethicsGuarding against COVID-19 vaccine hesitance in Ghana: analytic view of personal health engagement and vaccine related attitudeVaccination is the most effective preventive measure against COVID-19 spread. While the WHO and other stakeholders fear vaccine nationalism, vaccine-hesitancy has become a topical issue among experts. Based on the evidence of vaccine... moreVaccination is the most effective preventive measure against COVID-19 spread. While the WHO and other stakeholders fear vaccine nationalism, vaccine-hesitancy has become a topical issue among experts. Based on the evidence of vaccine hesitancy among Blacks, we explore the interrelatedness of psycho-social factors (personal health engagement, fear of COVID-19, perceived susceptibility, and vaccine-related attitude) likely to thwart vaccine acceptance in Africa. We sampled 1768 Ghanaian adults over 2 weeks from December 14, 2020, the first day a successful COVID-19 vaccine was administered in the US using an online survey. A higher level of personal health engagement was found to promote vaccine-related attitudes while reducing COVID-19 related fears, susceptibility, and vaccine hesitancy. Fear of COVID-19 and perceived vulnerability are significant contributors to the willingness to accept vaccination. This is an indication that health engagement alone will not promote vaccination willingness, but the fear and higher level of perceived susceptibility out of personal evaluation are essential factors in vaccination willingness. We recommend promoting health educational messages on COVID-19 vaccination ahead of any vaccination rollout in Africa, and such messages should contain some element of fear appeal.Save to Libraryby Nora Kulbo•  2  Public Health Policy, Big Data AnalyticsTell us something we dont already know or do! The response of planning and transport professionals to public health guidance on the built environment and physical …A large proportion of non-communicable disease can be attributed to modifiable risk factors such as poor nutrition and physical inactivity. We present data on planning and transport practitioners&#x27; perceptions and responses to... moreA large proportion of non-communicable disease can be attributed to modifiable risk factors such as poor nutrition and physical inactivity. We present data on planning and transport practitioners&#x27; perceptions and responses to government public health guidance aimed at ...Save to LibraryDownloadby nick cavill•  19  Psychology, Social Policy, Health Promotion, Evidence Based MedicinePELUANG PEMANFAATAN DANA DESA UNTUK PROGRAM P2 TUBERCLOSISSave to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Arlin Adam, SKM, M. Si•  2  Primary Health Care, Public Health PolicyExamining the efficacy of constancy and frequency as political strategies for assisted suicide legalization: Does the introduction of many bills over time or multiple bills at once increase the likelihood of assisted suicide bills passing in U.S. state legislaturesAttempts to legalize assisted suicide has historically presented a unique set of political and procedural challenges in state legislatures, the result of which has been the overwhelming defeat of nearly 98% such attempts in the last 25... moreAttempts to legalize assisted suicide has historically presented a unique set of political and procedural challenges in state legislatures, the result of which has been the overwhelming defeat of nearly 98% such attempts in the last 25 years. Only in recent years is this trend beginning to change. Vermont was the first state to adopt legislation in 2013, followed by California, and Washington DC in 2015. In 2018, Hawaii was added to the list and most recently, New Jersey, and Maine in 2019. Other trends have become evident as well. Whereas between 1995 and 2013 there was a median of nine bills introduced by six states in a given biennium, this has increased to 31 bills in 24 states between 2015 and 2019, And while until 2013, only two or three states at most would have more than a single bill in play, the median has now doubled to five states and Washington DC since 2015. This paper examines whether or not these recent trends are in fact, political strategies that could explainand potentially predict success in future sessions. We examine the efficacy of constancy (the perseverance of introducing bills over multiple sessions) and frequency (introducing multiple bills in the same session) using both the six successful attempts as well as 264 failed attempts since 1994. Comparing the common attributes of successful legalization as well as failures, perseverance cannot be ruled out as a beneficialvariable, but can only be vindicated with more data in the future. There was no evidence across all the data to suggest that multiple bills contributed to success. The data also shows that ideological liberalism is currently a necessary but not sufficient condition to pass assisted suicide bills, although it is expected to become more significantas the issue settles down party lines. Increases in the number of bills, the number states with bills, and perhaps the number of bills introduced in a given state appears more as a response to environmental stimuli that makes bills appear more viable: namely previous state victories and shifts in public opinion.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jacqueline H . Abernathy and +1Skylar Covich•  9  State Politics (American Politics), Bioethics, Public Health Policy, Legislative PoliticsThe Effects of Housing Status on Health-Related Outcomes in People living with HIV: A Systematic Review of the LiteratureSave to LibraryDownloadby Chad Leaver•  21  Social Work, Public Health Policy, Medication Adherence, HousingWorldwide surveillance of self-reported sitting time: a scoping reviewBackground Prolonged sitting time is a risk factor for chronic disease, yet recent global surveillance is not well described. The aims were to clarify: (i) the countries that have collected country-level data on self-reported sitting... moreBackground Prolonged sitting time is a risk factor for chronic disease, yet recent global surveillance is not well described. The aims were to clarify: (i) the countries that have collected country-level data on self-reported sitting time; (ii) the single-item tools used to collect these data; and (iii) the duration of sitting time reported across low- to high-income countries. Methods Country-level data collected within the last 10 years using single-item self-report were included. The six-stage methodology: (1) reviewing Global Observatory for Physical Activity! Country Cards; (2–4) country-specific searches of PubMed, the Demographic and Health Survey website and Google; (5) analysing the Eurobarometer 88.4; and (6) country-specific searches for World Health Organization STEPwise reports. Results A total of 7641 records were identified and screened for eligibility. Sixty-two countries (29%) reported sitting time representing 47% of the global adult population. The majority of dat...Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Mayuri Gad•  12  Education, Surveillance Epidemiology, Public Health Policy, Physical ActivityHealth Policies Formulation in Pakistan: An AnalysisObjective: A reviewing study of the health policy planning and formulation was initiated which explored the procedure of formulation of health policy and its implementation in Pakistan. The purpose of the study is to learn the procedure... moreObjective: A reviewing study of the health policy planning and formulation was initiated which explored the procedure of formulation of health policy and its implementation in Pakistan. The purpose of the study is to learn the procedure of health policy formulation and its implementation and to observe the issues in health system in Pakistan. Methodology: This study on health policy formulation was exploratory in nature. The research design was qualitative. The data was collected through secondary sources which includes research articles published in various journals and available on online sites. Moreover, data was also collected through books written on public policy by some foreign and local authors. Findings: The findings indicates that the planning and policy formation of the health sector in Pakistan is capable at the preparation level but not at the execution level. Implications: This paper recommends overcoming the health-related problems in Pakistan through formulation and ...Save to LibraryDownloadby ghulam mustafa•  3  Public Health Policy, Pakistan, Public Policy FormationDeterminants of knowledge of pregnancy danger signs in IndonesiaSave to LibraryDownloadby agung dwi laksono•  9  Demography, Public Health Policy, Social Determinants of Health, Health EducationHarm Reduction: A New Direction for Drug Policies and ProgramsSave to LibraryDownloadby Diane Riley•  4  Sociology, Economics, Public Health Policy, Public Administration and PolicyOil pipelines and food sovereignty: threat to health equity for Indigenous communitiesSave to LibraryDownloadby jerry spiegel•  20  Geography, Climate Change, Environmental Studies, Climate change policyHealth System Performance of Yukon Compared to Northern Canada: NAO Rapid Review No. 14This review compares Yukon’s health system performance with other northern regions, including: Labrador, Saguenay (QC), Côte-Nord (QC), Nord (QC), Nunavik (QC), Baie-James (QC), Northwestern (ON), Porcupine (ON), Thunder Bay (ON),... moreThis review compares Yukon’s health system performance with other northern regions, including: Labrador, Saguenay (QC), Côte-Nord (QC), Nord (QC), Nunavik (QC), Baie-James (QC), Northwestern (ON), Porcupine (ON), Thunder Bay (ON), Northern (MB), Mamawetan (SK), Keewatin (SK), Athasbasca (SK), North Zone (AB), Northwest (BC), North-Interior (BC), Northeast (BC), the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Yukon.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gregory Marchildon•  5  Public Health Policy, Health Care Management, First Nations of Canada, Health SystemsINFLUENCE OF SOCIAL DETERMINANTS ON HEPATITIS-B INFECTION AND VACCINATION COVERAGE IN BANGLADESHHepatitis B virus (HBV) is causally linked to acute and chronic form of hepatitis, which due to continuous immune mediated inflammation and scarring may lead to cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma. HBV spread via exchange of... moreHepatitis B virus (HBV) is causally linked to acute and chronic form of hepatitis, which due to continuous immune mediated inflammation and scarring may lead to cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma. HBV spread via exchange of infected bodily fluids underlie unique public health considerations due to similarities with other community related issues such as sexually transmitted diseases (eg HIV) blood borne pathogens (Hepatitis-C) and perinatal transmissions (TORCH complex).Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Ismail Sayeed•  15  Infectious disease epidemiology, Global Health, Public Health Policy, Public HealthThe development of the Perth Charter for the Promotion of Mental Health and WellbeingThe Perth Charter for the Promotion of Mental Health and Wellbeing is an initiative of the organizing committee of the 7th World Conference on the Promotion of Mental Health and Prevention of Mental and Behavioural Disorders. An iterative... moreThe Perth Charter for the Promotion of Mental Health and Wellbeing is an initiative of the organizing committee of the 7th World Conference on the Promotion of Mental Health and Prevention of Mental and Behavioural Disorders. An iterative feedback process was used to develop and revise the charter principles in consultation with health professionals. A final online survey showed strong support for each of the eight principles, which were rated ‘essential’ (as distinct from ‘desirable’ or ‘not relevant’) by 73–96% of respondents. The principles were supported most strongly by practitioners, of whom 85–100% classified each as ‘essential’. It is hoped that mental health professionals find the Charter useful for advocating for greater resource allocation in their jurisdictions to mental health, in general and to mental health promotion in particular.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julia Anwar McHenry•  5  Health Promotion, Mental Health, Public Health Policy, Public HealthOnline information of vaccines: information quality is an ethical responsibility of search enginesThe fact that internet companies may record our personal data and track our online behavior for commercial or political purpose has emphasized aspects related to online privacy. This has also led to the development of search engines that... moreThe fact that internet companies may record our personal data and track our online behavior for commercial or political purpose has emphasized aspects related to online privacy. This has also led to the development of search engines that promise no tracking and privacy. Search engines also have a major role in spreading low-quality health information such as that of anti-vaccine websites. This study investigates the relationship between search engines&#39; approach to privacy and the scientific quality of the information they return. We analyzed the first 30 webpages returned searching &#39;vaccines autism&#39; in English, Spanish, Italian and French. The results show that alternative search engines (Duckduckgo, Ecosia, Qwant, Swisscows and Mojeek) may return more anti-vaccine pages (10 to 53 percent) than this http URL (zero). Some localized versions of Google, however, returned more anti-vaccine webpages (up to 10 percent) than this http URL. Our study suggests that designing a se...Save to LibraryDownloadby Marie Neunez•  20  Health Sciences, Ethics, Health Promotion, Public Health LawSelf-medication with antibiotics and antimalarials in the community of Khartoum State, SudanTo estimate the prevalence of self medication with antibiotics and antimalarials in Khartoum State, Sudan and evaluate factors associated with self medication. A pre-tested questionnaire was used to collect data from a sample of 600... moreTo estimate the prevalence of self medication with antibiotics and antimalarials in Khartoum State, Sudan and evaluate factors associated with self medication. A pre-tested questionnaire was used to collect data from a sample of 600 households, (1750 adult persons), selected from three cities in Khartoum State, Sudan, using a multistage stratified clustered sampling. One thousand two hundred and ninety three (73.9%) of the study population had used antibiotics or antimalarials without a prescription within one month prior to the study. Eight hundred and forty one (48.1%) of the respondents agreed that they have used antibiotics, 43.4% used antimalarials, while 17.5% used both. Self medication with either antibiotics/ antimalarials was found to be significantly associated with age, income, gender and level of education. Overall, self medication with any antibiotics or antimalarials was least common among the &gt; or = 60 years compared to youngest age group (OR: 0.07; 0.04 -0.11) and...Save to LibraryDownloadby Lloyd Matowe•  20  Public Health Policy, Humans, Primary Healthcare, FemaleTHE HEALTH COOPERATIVES AS REPONSE TO HEALTHCARE CHALLENGES AND COVID19 PANDEMICHealth cooperatives are not developed in Serbia, but during 2020 there was created Initiative for reopening health cooperatives submitted to the Parliament explaining benefits of such organizational form and requesting change of public... moreHealth cooperatives are not developed in Serbia, but during 2020 there was created Initiative for reopening health cooperatives submitted to the Parliament explaining benefits of such organizational form and requesting change of public policies based on the previous research. This paper propose model that might be of practical power for the existing settings of healthcare system of Serbia, particularly reaching vulnerable groups in rural areas. Global experiences of healthcare cooperatives are presented especially considering COVID19 pandemic. Methodology is based on the analysis of the literature and synthesis of historical and modern aspects of health cooperatives in order to propose model of worker based health cooperatives that should be created into the rural areas in order to achieve results more effective than current in provision of the healthcare services.Save to LibraryDownloadby Milorad Stamenovic•  3  Public Health Policy, Public Health Systems & Services Research, Health CooperativeFUTURAS PANDEMIAS E DEGRADAÇÃO AMBIENTALEste artigo tem por objetivo apresentar as verdadeiras causas das pandemias com base na opinião de especialistas e mostrar como evitá-las no futuro. A opinião dominante desses especialistas é a de que a humanidade terá que realizar... moreEste artigo tem por objetivo apresentar as verdadeiras causas das pandemias com base na opinião de especialistas e mostrar como evitá-las no futuro. A opinião dominante desses especialistas é a de que a humanidade terá que realizar mudanças profundas em sua relação com a natureza para evitar que aconteçam novas pandemias que ameacem sua própria existência.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fernando A G Alcoforado•  3  Public Administration, Public Health Policy, Environmental SustainabilityA New Economics for HealthTHE INDUSTRIAL EVOLUTION OF HEALTHCARE It is a transformative fact today that most countries and their citizens draw on essential medicines and vaccines designed and manufactured and then traded across hundreds and often, thousands of... moreTHE INDUSTRIAL EVOLUTION OF HEALTHCAREIt is a transformative fact today that most countries andtheir citizens draw on essential medicines and vaccinesdesigned and manufactured and then traded across hundredsand often, thousands of miles. Health technologiesinclude both mature and innovative products, insome cases, entirely disrupting patient experiences, themedical profession, and the organization of industries.Several sub-sectors such as medicines, vaccines, diagnostickits, medical devices, and surgical instrumentsare produced and governed within and across nationalboundaries. These technologies may be regulated for arange of health and safety reasons, and often throughindustrial policies. New economics for health focusedon technological change and the evolutionary aspectsof industrial organization in the health industry maytherefore look different from health economics as weknow it today.Save to LibraryDownloadby Smita Srinivas•  10  Economics, Organisational Change, Public Health Policy, Technological InnovationPlan de Contingencia Alimentaria COVID19 LavallejaAnte una posible emergencia alimentaria, que podría llegar a ocurrir en el corto-mediano plazo (seis meses a un año), aquí se propone un Plan de Contingencia (Cruz Roja, 2008) Alimentaria para el departamento de Lavalleja. Que intenta... moreAnte una posible emergencia alimentaria, que podría llegar a ocurrir en el corto-mediano plazo (seis meses a un año), aquí se propone un Plan de Contingencia (Cruz Roja, 2008) Alimentaria para el departamento de Lavalleja. Que intenta vincular a distintas organizaciones e instituciones, tanto públicas como privadas, detrás de una red activa de contingencia inmediata.El núcleo duro de este plan es poner a disposición del departamento todas aquellas tierras de las distintas instituciones públicas radicadas en el departamento (unidades militares, tierras de OSE, UTE, ANTEL y otros entes u organismos Estatales), para destinarlas al cultivo de ciertas hortalizas de rápido crecimiento que se enlistarán abajo, siguiendo criterios de celeridad temporal, facilidad de cultivo y propiedades nutricionales.El rol coordinador central, lo llevará adelante la Intendencia Departamental, con la adquisición o preparación de semillas y la presentación del plan a los organismos correspondientes, tal cual lo mandata la Constitución Nacional y la Ley Orgánica Municipal (Ley Nº 9.515).Estimamos que la posibilidad de que pueda surgir una situación de esta naturaleza es muy baja (menos del 9% de probabilidad de ocurrir), pero debemos ser precavidos y estar preparados en caso de que el peor escenario se presente.No se pretende generar alarmismo con este plan, lejos de eso, queremos que existan los mecanismos preparados, para generar tranquilidad en caso de darse el peor escenario posible.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramiro García Pereira and +1Nicolás Bruno Guedes•  7  Food Safety, Public Health Policy, Public Health, Public PolicySchool Nutrition Policies: Shared and Complementary Perspectives of Lebanese Key StakeholdersSave to LibraryDownloadby Sima Hamadeh, PhD.•  3  Public Health Nutrition, Public Health Policy, Stakeholder EngagementDoes area of residence affect body size and shapeSave to LibraryDownloadby Anne Ellaway•  23  Education, Obesity, Anthropometry, Public Health PolicyRole of acceptability barriers in delayed diagnosis of Tuberculosis: Literature review from high burden countriesPurpose: Direct transmission of mutated tuberculosis (TB) strains is among major contributors to the worldwide epidemic of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis. Expanding access to TB-services and decreasing diagnostic delays are acknowledged as... morePurpose: Direct transmission of mutated tuberculosis (TB) strains is among major contributors to the worldwide epidemic of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis. Expanding access to TB-services and decreasing diagnostic delays are acknowledged as potential solutions. We aimed to summarize evidence about links between health care acceptability barriers and TB diagnostic delays. Scoping and systematic review approaches were combined to determine the depth/breadth of the literature, identify gaps, and synthesize findings. Methods: Electronic databases , key journals, other relevant electronic sources, and references of relevant articles were selected as potential sources through a preliminary search and expertsí advice. Titles and abstracts of 4046 initial records and 1796 references were screened against preliminarily developed and post-hoc inclusion/exclusion criteria. Author, year of publication, study location, study aims, overview of methods, study population, intervention type, outcomes measures and results of each included paper were extracted. Methodological quality of studies was assessed. Narrative synthesis of the study results was conducted through the thematic analysis approach. Results: Patients' negative expectations, doubts about quality of services/medications and burden of stigma, as well as providers' discriminative attitudes towards patients' characteristics (age, gender, eth-nicity) were reported as major barriers. Scarcity and unequal distribution of the literature and lack of attention to all potential acceptability barriers were found as major gaps in the current research. Conclusion: Overall, study findings indicate the significance of acceptability barriers' role in TB diagnostic delays. Emerging character of the field is demonstrated. Recommendations about further research directions are outlined.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maia  Barnabishvili and +1Ruth Waldherr•  3  Public Health Policy, Public Health, TuberculosisPrevalence, New Incidence, Course, and Risk Factors of PTSD, Depression, Anxiety, and Panic Disorder during the Covid-19 Pandemic in 11 CountriesWe aimed to evaluate the prevalence and incidence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, and panic disorder (PD) among citizens in 11 countries during the Covid-19 pandemic. We explored risks and protective factors... moreWe aimed to evaluate the prevalence and incidence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, and panic disorder (PD) among citizens in 11 countries during the Covid-19 pandemic. We explored risks and protective factors most associated with the development of these mental health disorders and their course at 68 days follow up. We acquired 9543 unique responses via an online survey that was disseminated in UK, Belgium, Netherlands, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Finland, India, Latvia, Poland, Romania, and Sweden. The prevalence and new incidence during the pandemic for at least one disorder was 48.6% and 17.6%, with the new incidence of PTSD, anxiety, depression, and panic disorder being 11.4%, 8.4%, 9.3%, and 3%, respectively. Higher resilience was associated with lower mental health burden for all disorders. Ten to thirteen associated factors explained 79% of the variance in PTSD, 80% in anxiety, 78% in depression, and 89% in PD. To reduce the mental health burden, g...Save to LibraryDownloadby Vasil Bozev•  10  Resilience, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Public Health Policy, Sociology of Mental Health & IllnessKnowledge and perceptions of polio and polio immunization in polio high-risk areas of PakistanPakistan and Afghanistan remain the only countries where polio is endemic, and Pakistan reports the most cases in the world. Although the rate is lower than in previous years, the situation remains alarming. We conducted a mixed methods... morePakistan and Afghanistan remain the only countries where polio is endemic, and Pakistan reports the most cases in the world. Although the rate is lower than in previous years, the situation remains alarming. We conducted a mixed methods study in high-risk areas of Pakistan to identify knowledge, attitudes, and practices of target populations about polio vaccine and its eradication, and to estimate coverage of routine immunization and oral polio vaccine. We surveyed 10,685 households in Karachi, 2522 in Pishin, and 2005 in Bajaur. Some knowledge of polio is universal, but important misconceptions persist. The findings of this study carry strategic importance for program direction and implementation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Saeed Anwar•  16  Focus Groups, Public Health Policy, Pakistan, Qualitative ResearchGender Disparities in the Prevalence of Undernutrition and the Higher Risk among the Young Women of Indian TribesPLoS ONESave to Libraryby Dr. Subhendu   K Acharya•  32  Anthropology, Biological Anthropology, Medical Anthropology, NutritionSocial world of organ transplantation, trafficking, and policiesSave to LibraryDownloadby Bandana Purkayastha•  11  Human Rights, Political Science, Public Health Policy, PakistanEnjeux éthiques liés à la distanciation sociale, l'isolement et la quarantaine dans le contexte de la pandémie de COVID-19Fiche synthèse Cette fiche synthèse est complémentaire au Cadre de réflexion sur les enjeux éthiques liés à la pandémie de COVID-19 1. Deux autres fiches semblables à celles-ci ont été produites. Dans leur ensemble, elles couvrent les... moreFiche synthèse Cette fiche synthèse est complémentaire au Cadre de réflexion sur les enjeux éthiques liés à la pandémie de COVID-19 1. Deux autres fiches semblables à celles-ci ont été produites. Dans leur ensemble, elles couvrent les principaux messages du document original.Save to LibraryDownloadby Félix Lebrun-Paré•  3  Public Health Policy, Ehtics, COVID-19 PANDEMICHealth and broader community benefit of parkrun—An exploratory qualitative studyIssue addressed parkrun is a free, weekly, timed, international mass community 5‐km walk/run event. Unlike other paid events, parkrun attracts populations harder to engage in physical activity (PA) (eg, women, those with... moreIssue addressedparkrun is a free, weekly, timed, international mass community 5‐km walk/run event. Unlike other paid events, parkrun attracts populations harder to engage in physical activity (PA) (eg, women, those with overweight/obesity or illness/injury/disability). This exploratory qualitative study investigated the individual, social and environmental factors associated with parkrun's broad appeal in Australia.MethodsTasmanian parkrunners who completed a quantitative survey (2016) were purposively recruited for a 2017 interview study. Semistructured interviews focused on reasons for parkrun participation. Data saturation was achieved by the tenth interview. Data were analysed thematically.ResultsFour themes emerged: (a) participation facilitators and barriers; (b) PA gain and broader community benefit; (c) social connections/networks; and (d) organisational issues. Appealing characteristics of parkrun included strong social support, performance gain opportunities, socialising, inclusivity (eg, all ages/abilities), sense of community, positive atmosphere and accessibility (eg, no cost and convenience). Some participants reported that parkrun had stimulated gains in their total PA (not always limited to walking/running) and that parkrun may also result in other community benefits (eg, supporting local businesses, fee‐based running club/event participation and “parkrun tourism”). Most participants first attended parkrun because of encouragement from their social networks, and participants subsequently encouraged others to attend. Participants found parkrun events well organised, but identified some potential threats (eg, local politics).ConclusionsSocial factors appeared critical in driving initial and ongoing parkrun participation. parkrun may lead to wider community benefits beyond that gained through increased individual PA. These findings highlight the “success factors” driving parkrun participation and provide insights for other community‐based PA promotion activities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Meredith Nash•  16  Sociology, Gender Studies, Health Promotion, EpidemiologyThe Children in Child Health: Negotiating Young Lives and Health in New Zealand**See upload for discount flyer** Who are the children in child health policy? How do they live and see the world, and why should we know them? A journey into the lives of children coping in a world compromised by poverty and inequality,... more**See upload for discount flyer**Who are the children in child health policy? How do they live and see the world, and why should we know them? A journey into the lives of children coping in a world compromised by poverty and inequality, The Children in Child Health challenges the invisibility of children's perspectives in health policy and argues that paying attention to what children do is critical for understanding the practical and policy implications of these experiences. In the unique context of indigenous Māori and migrant Pacific children in postcolonial New Zealand, Julie Spray explores the intertwining issues of epidemic disease, malnutrition, stress, violence, self-harm, and death to address the problem of how scholars and policy-makers alike can recognize and respond to children as social actors in their health. The Children in Child Health innovatively combines perspectives from childhood studies, medical anthropology, and public health and policy together with evocative ethnography to show how a deep understanding of children's worlds can change our approach to their care.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julie Spray•  9  Medical Anthropology, Child health, Anthropology of Children and Childhood, Public Health PolicyThe National Mental Health Policy and Social ChangeIn April, 1992 Australian health ministers met to discuss and ultimately implement a National Mental Health Policy. The perception was that the Australian mental health system was inadequately serving the needs of the Australian... moreIn April, 1992 Australian health ministers met to discuss and ultimately implement a National Mental Health Policy. The perception was that the Australian mental health system was inadequately serving the needs of the Australian population and the mentally ill. It was a perception later supported and elaborated upon by the HREOC with the tabling of the Burdekin Report. Mental health is a growing area of concern and until 1994 had been a responsibility largely adopted by the States. However, the intervention of the Commonwealth government marks a new direction; moreso a developing shift in the power relations of governments, service providers, health organisations and workers and the community at large. The National Mental Health policy is a microcosm of the broader trends of social change and whilst it appears to bea change which intends to serve the interests of the mentally ill it may well havemore insidious effects upon the broader population.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ben Wadham•  4  Mental Health, Public Health Policy, Sociology of Mental Health & Illness, Sociology of Health and IllnessThe Growing Impact of Globalization for Health and Public Health PracticeIn recent decades, public health policy and practice have been increasingly challenged by globalization, even as global financing for health has increased dramatically. This article discusses globalization and its health challenges from a... moreIn recent decades, public health policy and practice have been increasingly challenged by globalization, even as global financing for health has increased dramatically. This article discusses globalization and its health challenges from a vantage of political science, emphasizing increased global flows (of pathogens, information, trade, finance, and people) as driving, and driven by, global market integration. This integration requires a shift in public health thinking from a singular focus on international health (the higher disease burden in poor countries) to a more nuanced analysis of global health (in which health risks in both poor and rich countries are seen as having inherently global causes and consequences). Several globalization-related pathways to health exist, two key ones of which are described: globalized diseases and economic vulnerabilities. The article concludes with a call for national governments, especially those of wealthier nations, to take greater account of ...Save to LibraryDownloadby KATIA MOHINDRA•  19  Social Change, Globalization, Political Science, Global HealthRobotic Surgery: Transforming Patient Care in the 21st Century?Inspired by a notion that machines can emulate human touch, the paper first examines the adoption of surgical robots in operating rooms at the global and local levels. The adoption of the technology has occurred almost concurrently in... moreInspired by a notion that machines can emulate human touch, the paper first examines the adoption of surgical robots in operating rooms at the global and local levels. The adoption of the technology has occurred almost concurrently in many countries without much time lag, and this near-simultaneous acceptance of the technology invites us to rethink technological supremacy in relation to patient care in the field of surgery. With focus on the da Vinci surgical system, this paper presents social and ethical implications of how (not) to regulate robotic surgery with potential and invisible risks with respect to patient care. Based on documentary analysis of news media in combination with literature review of medical journals, Korean news media, and Korean technology assessment reports on surgical robots, the paper explores how prevalently the idea of social progress is embedded in the promotion of advanced technology at the societal and governmental levels. I contend that the ideology ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Eunjeong Ma•  11  South Korea, Political Science, Public Health Policy, Health LawHealth Services Research 2022 Kalve...a White House directive for endingObjective: Analyze responses to a national request for information (RFI) to uncover gaps in policy, practice, and understanding of veteran suicide to inform federal research strategy. Data source: An RFI with 21 open-ended questions... moreObjective: Analyze responses to a national request for information (RFI) to uncover gaps in policy, practice, and understanding of veteran suicide to inform federal research strategy.Data source: An RFI with 21 open-ended questions generated from Presidential Executive Order #1386, administered nationally from July 3 to August 5, 2019.Study design: Semi-structured, open-ended responses analyzed using a collaborative qualitative and text-mining data process.Data extraction methods: We aligned traditional qualitative methods with natural language processing (NLP) text-mining techniques to analyze 9040 open-ended question responses from 722 respondents to provide results within 3 months. Narrative inquiry and the medical explanatory model guided the data extraction and analytic process.Results: Five major themes were identified: risk factors, risk assessment, prevention and intervention, barriers to care, and data/research. Individuals and organizations mentioned different concepts within the same themes. In responses about risk factors, individuals frequently mentioned generic terms like “illness” while organizations mentioned specific terms like “traumatic brain injury.” Organizations and individualsdescribed unique barriers to care and emphasized ways to integrate data and research to improve points of care. Organizations often identified lack of funding as barriers while individuals often identified key moments for prevention such as military transitions and ensuring care providers have military cultural understanding.Conclusions: This study provides an example of a rapid, adaptive analysis of a large body of qualitative, public response data about veteran suicide to support a federal strategy for an important public health topic. Combining qualitative and text-mining methods allowed a representation of voices and perspectives including the lived experiences of individuals who described stories of military transition, treatments that worked or did not, and the perspective of organizations treating veterans for suicide. The results supported the development of a national strategy to reduce suicide risks for veterans as well as civilians.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrea Kalvesmaki and +1ALEC CHAPMAN•  4  Mental Health, Public Health Policy, Suicide prevention, VeteransDialogos entre indigenismo e reforma sanitária: bases discursivas para a criação do Subsistema de Saúde IndígenaEm 23 de setembro de 1999, foi aprovada a criação do subsistema de saúde indígena no âmbito do Sistema Único de Saúde. Neste trabalho, analisamos as bases discursivas de convergência e conflitos entre discursos indigenistas e da Reforma... moreEm 23 de setembro de 1999, foi aprovada a criação do subsistema de saúde indígena no âmbito do Sistema Único de Saúde. Neste trabalho, analisamos as bases discursivas de convergência e conflitos entre discursos indigenistas e da Reforma Sanitária, que nos permitem refletir sobre esse processo que consideramos configurar uma ‘longa’ Reforma Sanitária indígena. Utilizamos como referencial teórico a perspectiva da teoria de Stephen Ball, para analisar documentos produzidos por atores indigenistas (Fundação Nacional do Índio - Funai, Conselho Indigenista Missionário - Cimi e União das Nações Indígenas - UNI) e pelo Movimento da Reforma Sanitária. Apontamos evidências da utilização por indígenas e indigenistas dos argumentos e das propostas da Reforma Sanitária, e, por outro lado, o envolvimento estratégico de Sergio Arouca nos debates da saúde indígena. Os pontos de convergência se localizam principalmente na crítica ao modelo biomédico, à aproximação das propostas da atenção primária e do conceito ampliado de saúde. Os conflitos se relacionaram principalmente quanto à operacionalização do subsistema, mas o discurso indigenista, contrário à municipalização, encontrou na distritalização uma proposta legitimada na Reforma Sanitária.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ana Lucia Pontes•  2  Indigenous Health, Public Health PolicyNextLast »Related TopicsPublic HealthFollowFollowingHealth PolicyFollowFollowingGlobal HealthFollowFollowingSocial Determinants of HealthFollowFollowingHealth PromotionFollowFollowingHistory of Public HealthFollowFollowingPublic Health EthicsFollowFollowingPublic Health Systems & Services ResearchFollowFollowingEpidemiologyFollowFollowingHealth EconomicsFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023