Programmes – Trinidad and Tobago Prison Service
 
15 captures
24 Apr 2019 - 26 Sep 2022
Mar
APR
Aug
24
2018
2019
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20190424152849/https://ttprisons.com/180/programmes/
HomeAbout Us
HistoryDEPARTMENTS AND CAREERSContacts
Prison Facilities
VISITS
Resources
Media ResourceEMPLOYEE RESOURCE CENTRE
HomeAbout Us
HistoryDEPARTMENTS AND CAREERSContacts
Prison Facilities
VISITS
Resources
Media ResourceEMPLOYEE RESOURCE CENTRE
 
Programmes & Industry DepartmentChampions of Rehabilitation
The Programmes and Industry department sits at the core of the Trinidad and Tobago Prison Service’s mission and mandate as deals specifically with the internal opportunities granted to offenders to become reform and rehabilitated citizens.
This department manages developmental interventions, efficiently provides services which target the criminogenic needs of our clients. this is all in an effort to facilitate reformation and transformation in our clients. This unique department organises academic and vocational training, religious intercession, sporting activities, pre-release and life-skills training programmes. Over time a model for proper coordination and management as a group of related projects has developed and the functions of the department have expanded. This department has strong roots in the Restorative Justice Policy of the Trinidad and Tobago Prison Service.
The Restorative Justice Philosophy is driven by a Penal Policy that mandates the prisons system to link offenders with skills, resources and opportunities that will enable them successfully return to society. In such a policy, teamwork amongst staff, between staff and inmates, and between staff and community volunteers, and other stakeholders is extremely important. The Department provides the opportunity for inmates to learn, and to participate in their own development.
Development AreasTraining and skills development is offered in the following areas:
Academic Education
Vocational Education
Religious Interventions
Life-Skill Development
Sporting Activities
Music, Culture & the Arts
Agriculture
Aquaculture
Live Stock Rearing
Inmate Radio Station
Candle Making Project
Aquaponics
prison radion stationRISE MAXIMUM RADIOYes!! We do provide our own radio station with quality content to uplift the spirits and minds of our clients.
The Many Opportunities to Develop
Radio LifeTrain and become a certified radio broadcaster. As well as achieve valuable experience in preparation to re-enter society as an asset.
Tune in Now
 
180 Years Strong #180 #AboutTurn
MOTTO TO HOLD AND TREAT
Careers Explore the wide variety of areas of employment within the Service
Follow Us 
Facebook Copyright © 2018 Trinidad and Tobago Prison Service. All rights reserved.