Hannibal Travis | Florida International University - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Hannibal TravisFlorida International University,  (2020) College of Law,  Faculty MemberInternet Law+25Professor of Law at Miami's public law school.  Author of COPYRIGHT CLASS STRUGGLE: CREATIVE ECONOMIES IN A SOCIAL MEDIA AGE (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2018). Articles have appeared in Miami, Notre Dame, and Villanova law reviews; the technology law journals of the University of California and Yale; and the international law journals of the University of California, Cornell, and Brooklyn law schools, as well as peer-reviewed international law/human rights journals of the University of Toronto Press and Brill.  Chapters include: 'The Economics of Book Digitization and the Google Books Litigation', in RESEARCH HANDBOOK ON ELECTRONIC COMMERCE LAW (John Rothchild ed., Edward Elgar, 2016); 'The "Monster" That Ate Social Networking?', in CYBERSPACE LAW: CENSORSHIP AND REGULATION OF THE INTERNET (Hannibal Travis ed., Routledge, 2013); 'YouTube from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe: Tyrannize Locally, Censor  Globally', in TRANSNATIONAL CULTURE IN THE INTERNET AGE (Adam Candeub and Sean Pager eds., Elgar, 2012); and 'Opting Out of the Internet in the United States and the European Union,' in GOOGLE ET LES NOUVEAUX SERVICES EN LIGNE: IMPACT SUR L'ECONOMIE DU CONTENTU ET QUESTIONS DE PROPRIETE INTELLECTUELLE (Alain Strowel ed., Editions Larcier 2008).  Other scholarship has appeared in books from Oceana/Oxford University Press USA, Hart Publishing, Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan, Berghahn Books, Transaction Publishers, Westphalia Press, the Modern Genocide database of ABC-CLIO, and the university presses of the University of Cambridge, the University of Pennsylvania, and Rutgers University.less132 Followers77 Following12 Co-authorsTotal Views ;FollowFollowingall28 Intellectual Property and Internet Law1 Forthcoming22 International Law6 Talks7 OldIntellectual Property and Internet LawCrypto Coin Offerings and the Freedom of ExpressionChapman Law Review ,  2020Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether encourage the owners of computing resources to bring e... more Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether encourage the owners of computing resources to bring ever-increasing levels of processing power to bear in validating the distributed ledger of cryptocurrency purchases and sales.  Initial coin offerings (ICOs) involve the sale of cryptocurrency coins or tokens with the aid of on white papers.  Crypto coin white papers involve a mixture of scientific, sociopolitical, and economic speech.  They often contain extended arguments for how users of the coins and the Internet or society in general could benefit from a new way of organizing economic relations, assembling and deploying assets, or exchanging messages or entitlements.  While they share some similarities with forms of commercial speech that enjoy quite limited First Amendment protection, they are arguably more similar to other economic statements that enjoy First Amendment protection against censorship, or to direct advertisements that are deemed insufficiently misleading to result in civil liability.  Nevertheless, some interpretations of U.S. securities and commodities law would prohibit authors of such white papers from raising funds for crypto coin platforms if the coin's users expect to earn a return on their investment and rely on the coin issuer's expertise or representations.  This article explores principles of free expression that could shield truthful speech and subjective opinions about new crypto coins from some of the worst chilling effects of U.S. laws.  It examines ways in which crypto coins may benefit marketplace participants and economic efficiency, including by providing a beneficial alternative to traditional software app stores, logistics infrastructures, or banking and payment systems.  It then surveys the First Amendment and other constitutional issues that onerous regulations raise, and draws analogies to doctrines that reconcile the freedom of economic expression with the cause of consumer or investor protection under the Lanham Act, the Securities Exchange Act, state deceptive practices laws, and the law of warranties.  Several themes in the case law are ripe for application to ICOs: the need for precision and proportionality in framing regulation, the proscription against regulatory overkill and one-size-fits-all approaches, and the requirement that basic freedoms be preserved.  More specifically, the securities or commodities are not properly read as applying to many crypto coin offering papers, and describes other concepts such as virtual commodities or virtual barter systems from other jurisdictions that may be a better fit.  The article urges American lawyers and judges to probe thoroughly whether the interests served by prohibitions and penalties on crypto coin speech justify the burdens imposed on information providers. Regulating false statements of existing fact and enhancing the remedies for making them will be more effective and less constitutionally infirm measures than those aimed at preempting merely potential harm.  Courts must balance the values of fraud prevention and remediation with the values of freedom of expression and expanded economic opportunity.  Analogous fields of law provide several tools with which to achieve this balance, including the distinction between general or universal fraud prohibitions and narrower securities or commodities regulation regimes, the difference between forward-looking and other statements in several area of fraud law, First Amendment principles governing professional and occupational licensing, and rules against vague or discriminatorily enforced regulations.  keywords: cryptocurrencies, tokens, appcoins, altcoins, coins, coin offerings, ICOs, "initial coin offerings", free speech, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of information, cloud computing, virtualization, virtual communities,  virtual currencies, virtual commodities, digital barter, securities law, regulation, consumer protection, false advertising, Lanham Act, misleading, First Amendment, commercial speech, least restrictive means, overbreadth, vagueness, Fifth Amendment, due process, human rights, Telegram, TON, Kik, Kin, Kik Interactive, Bitcoin, Ether, smart contracts, crowdfunding, SEC, The DAO, CFTC, CFPB, European Union, EU, banking, risk, innovation, technology, financial technology, payment systems, multistakeholder governance, polycentric governance, puffery, bespeaks caution doctrine, California, New York, Texas, occupational licensing, libertarianismSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Enjoining the Cloud: Equity, Irreparability, and RemediesVillanova Law Review ,  2019This article examines the tailoring of remedies in cases involving charges of online infringement... more This article examines the tailoring of remedies in cases involving charges of online infringement of copyrights or trademarks. When websites communicate copyrighted works to members of the public or use trademarks unlawfully, domestic requirements of equitable relief come into tension with global enforcement cultures. Courts sometimes enjoin entire websites or order the defendant and its cloud service providers to end any use of the copyrights or trademarks at issue, while other courts limit their injunctions to the adjudicated conduct and the parties before them. The question sometimes arises whether a site-killing or device-killing order should issue in light of the defendant’s infringement and third parties’ facilitation of it, or whether the defendant should simply be ordered to desist from the infringing acts (and related parties from facilitating those specific acts). An increasingly prominent alternative is to withhold an injunctive remedy in view of the potential recovery of monetary relief. This article explores why, despite statutory language, case law precedent, and political consensus that website blocking should not occur, the sweeping remedy of site blocking (enjoining any facilitation of site access) continues to be available. It argues that site-blocking and orders to third parties not to index or provide services to a website are in tension with the Supreme Court’s decision in eBay, the First Amendment case for narrowly targeted remedies when publishing and digital communication are at stake, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act’s limiting language, remedial proportionality doctrine, and the failure of the Stop Online Piracy Act of 2011 in Congress. Remedial inequities are also emerging as between patent and copyright or trademark holders, because the bare loss of control of intellectual property is justifying copyright and trademark injunctions despite patent law cases suggesting that impaired exclusivity and negotiating leverage are not necessarily “irreparable injury.”Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Copyright Class Struggle: Creative Economies in a Social Media AgeCopyright Class Struggle: Creative Economies in a Social Media Age,  2018Control over digital, literary, filmed, musical, and other creative assets is vitally important t... more Control over digital, literary, filmed, musical, and other creative assets is vitally important to earning an income in our time.  How do different players in the complex ecosystems of entertainment, software, and social media articulate their claims to a greater piece of the economic pie?  This book explores legal controversies that emerge when authors, singers, filmmakers, and social media barons leverage legal rights into major paydays.  The stories of real authors fighting digital-media or Hollywood giants are told, and situated alongside broader struggles for copyright justice.  Copyright reform efforts are a focus, including those relating to employment and labour disputes in copyright, constitutional rights in intellectual property law, patent reform and the plight of the independent inventor, the legality of posting mashups and remixes online, streaming royalties due to actors and musicians, and possibilities for free access on search engines to our shared culture heritage.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Cyberspace Law: Censorship and Regulation of the Internet In this book, editor Hannibal Travis of FIU contends that expansive Internet service provider lia... more In this book, editor Hannibal Travis of FIU contends that expansive Internet service provider liability for illegal expression will censor lawful expression and slow the commercialization of innovative Internet-based communications platforms.  Chapter 1, by the University of California's Margreth Barret, describes the stakes for freedom of expression when traditional rules of trademark law are applied to Web addresses, search engines, and other Internet uses.  The historic distinction is between the use of a trademark to confuse consumers, and its use as a description in comparative advertising, invitations to try competitive products, and the like.  Eroding his distinction has implications for the ability of startups and other less dominant brands to establish themselves by placing their advertisements where dominant brands’ customers are likely to see them.  Moreover, challenges to it may end up censoring commentary on the Web.  Chapter 2, by Howard's Lateef Mtima, argues that digitization and searchability of the world’s recorded knowledge is the ultimate fulfillment of the promise of copyright. We now possess the technology – mass-digitization projects and worldwide access to information over the Internet – so what we need is the social commitment to make digitized content available to underserved and marginalized communities.  Google Book Search project to scan books in libraries and make their contents searchable may herald in the progressive evolution of copyright law and policy. Although the court hearing the class action by authors and private lawsuits by publishers rejected the early versions of the settlement, it recognized the project’s extraordinary social utility.  This chapter advocates focused initiatives to diversify the available digitized content and expand the range of permissible applications.   Chapter 3, by Southern University's Johanna Dennis, maintains that patent law is generating complex answers to the question of who owns methods of doing business online.  As the courts struggle to decide what is and is not patentable, Internet industry leaders such as Google, eBay, Facebook and Yahoo are seeking as much patent protection as they can, while attempting to deny comparable protection to smaller firms that may challenge their alleged infringements in court.  By maximizing their intellectual property and patent portfolios, companies engaged in e-commerce, finance and business via the Internet may be better able to protect themselves from threats of infringement, create opportunities for licensing and cross-licensing their patents to others, and wield their patents against upstart competitors.  Chapter 4, by cyberlaw practitioner Amir Hassanabadi, covers the epic battle between leaders of the entertainment and Internet industries in Viacom v. YouTube, raising issues of online copyright infringement, pervasive knowledge of massive infringement, and DMCA takedown notices as red flags triggering a duty to monitor user-generated content. The district court confronted the DMCA’s silence on content filtering. The chapter suggests that the DMCA requires reform to suit a Web 2.0 digital landscape. Content owners and service provides value the tools that the DMCA provides.  In Chapter 4, cyberlaw practitioner Amir Hassanabadi narrates the epic battle of Viacom v. Google and YouTube, featuring allegations of online copyright infringements, pervasive knowledge of massive infringement, and DMCA takedown notices as red flags triggering a potential duty to monitor and filter out copyrighted material.  In Chapter 6, Jasmine Abdel-Khalik of UMKC analyzes how eBay escaped liability for most infringing auctions for Tiffany jewelry by setting up a compliance program and responding quickly to complaints by Tiffany and other major brands.  In Chapter 7, Ann Bartow of Pace Law School Internet companies’ responsibility for their users’ offensive behavior, and especially their harassment of others, and illustrates the stakes involved with the tragic personal story of a woman whose ex-boyfriend posted fake online profiles offering sexual intercourse.   In Chapter 8, Raphael Cohen-Almagor of the University of Hull suggests that cases such as LICRA v. Yahoo! may foretell the end of an era in which the Internet seemed to be a perfect medium for business: a facilitator of unlimited economical propositions to people without any regulatory limitations.  In Chapter 9, Professor Travis explains whether the U.S. federal government has the authority to regulate Internet service providers to ensure Internet infrastructure’s neutrality with respect to the content and applications that are available to Internet users.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission has announced neutrality principles and decided that the cable Internet provider Comcast could be sanctioned for violating them.   A federal appellate court rejected the sanctions for inadequate notice and procedural formality in adopting the principles, as well as due to larger questions about the jurisdiction of the FCC to regulate the Internet.  The U.S. Congress has struggled unsuccessfully to define a consensus policy in this area.  This chapter details the conflict of First Amendment interests between Internet users desiring to send and receive communications and access the applications of their choice, and broadband providers desiring to manage their networks to maintain efficiency, legal compliance, and consumer demand.  The final chapter tells the story of how Facebook became the dominant social networking site, and came under the control of Mark Zuckerberg and his allies through a variety of legal tactics.  It investigates whether Facebook has become a near-monopoly that invades privacy, controls what users can do or say with their friends, and limits the ability of other social networks to compete.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Counter-IP Conspiracies: Patent Alienability and the Sherman Antitrust Act71 Miami Law Review 758,  2017Some patent owners and their attorneys believe that collusive arrangements among potential infrin... more Some patent owners and their attorneys believe that collusive arrangements among potential infringers may result in suppressed prices for patent licenses. An analogous problem exists for aspiring professional athletes, who are the cream of the athletic crop in a way that patent owners may be in the technological arts. Some athletes have claimed that teams collude not to offer competitive remuneration for superlative performance, starting with high school prospects, most clearly at the university and college level, and during the professional league’s drafts and free-agency rulemakings.  Recently, courts have ruled that some collusive arrangements in athletics, amounting to conspiracies not to bid up the value of athletes’ intellectual property rights including their rights of publicity, are subject to antitrust challenge under section 1 of the Sherman Act.  May the same be said for arrangements in the technology arts, when alleged conspiracies depress bids on patent licenses and assignments?  This Article develops a framework for analyzing antitrust case disputes concerning agreements, combinations, and/or conspiracies to undermine the enjoyment and licensing of intellectual property rights. Traditionally, conspiring to depress as well as to raise prices was a per se antitrust violation.  Raising rivals’ costs of revenue and reducing opportunities for the distribution, legal protection, and sale or licensing of rivals’ inventions are anticompetitive tactics. Antitrust law and economic research have regarded such strategies as exclusionary conduct when engaged in by a monopolist, as cartelization or conspiracy when adopted jointly by competitors desiring to regulate their industries,  and as presenting a danger of distorting the market when resulting from mergers or asset purchases.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Economics of Book Digitization and the Google Books LitigationResearch Handbook on Electronic Commerce Law ,  2016Research Handbook on Electronic Commerce Law, edited by John Rothchild, pp. 117-136.  Elgar.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Building Universal Digital Libraries: An Agenda for Copyright ReformPepperdine Law Review,  2006This article proposes a series of copyright reforms to pave the way for digital library projects ... more This article proposes a series of copyright reforms to pave the way for digital library projects like Project Gutenberg, the Internet Archive, and Google Print, which promise to make much of the world's knowledge easily searchable and accessible from anywhere. Existing law frustrates digital library growth and development by granting overlapping, overbroad, and near-perpetual copyrights in books, art, audiovisual works, and digital content. Digital libraries would benefit from an expanded public domain, revitalized fair use doctrine and originality requirement, rationalized systems for copyright registration and transfer, and a new framework for compensating copyright owners for online infringement without imposing derivative copyright liability on technologists. This article's case for reform begins with rolling back the copyright term extensions of recent years, which were upheld by the Supreme Court in Eldred v. Reno. Indefinitely renewable copyrights threaten to marginalize Internet publishing and online libraries by entangling them in endless disputes regarding the rights to decades- or centuries-old works. Similarly, digital library projects are becoming unnecessarily complicated and expensive to undertake due to the assertion by libraries and copyright holding companies of exclusive rights over unoriginal reproductions of public domain works, and the demands of authors that courts block all productive digital uses of their already published but often out-of-print works. Courts should refuse to allow the markets in digital reproductions to be monopolized in this way, and Congress must introduce greater certainty into copyright licensing by requiring more frequent registration and recordation of rights. Courts should also consider the digitizing of copyrighted works for the benefit of the public to be fair use, particularly where only excerpts of the works are posted online for public perusal. A digital library like Google Print needs a degree of certainty - which existing law does not provide - that it will not be punished for making miles of printed matter instantly searchable in the comfort of one's home, or for rescuing orphan works from obscurity or letting consumers preview a few pages of a book before buying it. Finally, the Supreme Court's recognition of liability for inducement of digital copyright infringement in the Grokster case may have profoundly negative consequences for digital library technology. The article discusses how recent proposals for statutory file-sharing licenses may reduce the bandwidth and storage costs of digital libraries, and thereby make them more comprehensive and accessible.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Estimating the Economic Impact of Mass Digitization Projects on Copyright Holders: Evidence from the Google Book Search LitigationJournal of the Copyright Society of the USA,  2011Google Book Search (GBS) has captured the attention of many commentators and government officials... more Google Book Search (GBS) has captured the attention of many commentators and government officials, but even as they vigorously debate its legality, few of them have marshaled new facts to estimate its likely effects on publishing and other information markets. This Article challenges the conventional wisdom propounded by the U.S. and German governments, as well as Microsoft and other competitors of Google, concerning the likely economic impact of mass book-digitization projects. Originally advanced by publishing industry lobbying groups, the prevailing account of mass book-digitization projects is that they will devastate authors and publishers, just as Napster and its heirs have supposedly devastated musicians and music labels. Using the impact of GBS on the revenues and operating incomes of U.S. publishers believing themselves to be the most-affected by it, this Article finds no evidence of a negative impact upon them. To the contrary, it provides some evidence of a positive impact, and proposes further empirical research to identify the mechanisms of digitization’s economic impact.  The debate surrounding the GBS settlement is important to students, writers, researchers, and the general public, as it may decide whether a federal appellate court or even the U.S. Supreme Court allows the best research tool ever designed to survive. If the theory of Microsoft and some publishing trade associations is accepted, the courts may enjoin and destroy GBS, just as Napster was shut down a decade ago.  The Article aims at a preliminary estimate of the economic impact of mass digitization projects, using GBS as a case in point. It finds little support for the much-discussed hypothesis of the Association of American Publishers and Google’s competitors that the mass digitization of major U.S. libraries will reduce the revenues and profits of the most-affected publishers. In fact, the revenues and profits of the publishers who believe themselves to be most aggrieved by GBS, as measured by their willingness to file suit against Google for copyright infringement, increased at a faster rate after the project began, as compared to before its commencement. The rate of growth by publishers most affected by GBS is greater than the growth of the overall U.S. economy or of retail sales. Thus, the very publishers that have sued Google have seen their revenues grow faster than retail sales or the U.S. economy as a whole (measured by gross domestic product). This finding parallels some of the research that has been done since the Napster case on the economic impact of peer-to-peer file sharing on sales of recorded music. Future studies may provide a more granular estimate of the economic impact of frequent downloads or displays of pages of particular books on the sales of such books.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Opting Out of the Internet in the United States and European Union: Copyright, Safe Harbors, and International LawNotre Dame Law Review,  2008Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Google Book Search and Fair Use: iTunes for Authors, or Napster for Books?Miami Law Review,  2006Google plans to digitize the books from five of the world's biggest libraries into a keyword-sear... more Google plans to digitize the books from five of the world's biggest libraries into a keyword-searchable book-browsing library. Some publishers and authors allege that this constitutes a massive piracy of their copyrights in books not yet in the public domain. But I argue that Google Book Search may be a fair use for two interrelated reasons: it is unlikely to reduce the sales of printed books, and it promises to improve the marketing of books via an innovative book marketing platform featuring short previews. Books are an experience good in economic parlance, or a product that must be consumed before full information about its contents and quality becomes available. This makes new technologies that are capable of rapidly searching and previewing relevant passages from books a development that the law should encourage, not burden or restrain.  After introducing the topic, I describe Google's ambitious plan to scan and index up to 15 million library books by 2010, and provide short previews of a few lines each to help users decide whether to buy the books or check them out from a library. I then argue that the fair use limitation on exclusive rights has historically protected efforts such as Google's to address the economic problem of marketing experience goods like books, albums, movies, or games, which consumers must decide whether to buy without assessing their quality and characteristics beforehand. Fair use partially resolved this problem by permitting the unauthorized dissemination of extracts of another's work in a catalogue, review, abridgement in a periodical, or other work of criticism or commentary.  The bulk of the Article analyzes the copyright and fair use implications of lawsuits challenging Google Book Search, filed by several publishers and a putative class of up to 8,000 published authors. I contend that by reproducing excerpts from scanned books for the purpose of improving access to information about books on the internet, Google is making a transformative use of the books that should qualify as a fair use. Courts have recognized that copyright owners are not entitled to gain a monopoly over the market for information about their works, or to suppress efforts to improve the public's access to information and high-quality research tools. Google Book Search is distinguishable from prior attempts to disseminate complete copies of protected works, from newspaper articles in the Free Republic case to songs in the Napster and MP3.com cases. Insofar as most works being scanned by Google have already been published, and are nonfictional and fact-based, these facts also strongly support Google's fair use arguments.  Most importantly, the evidence so far is that Google Book Search will dramatically improve, rather than detract from, the sales of books that it permits users to find, preview, and purchase. Google Book Search has tripled the sales of many books, and other online previews of books have also markedly increased sales. Total book sales are up substantially in the period after Google began scanning copyrighted books, indicating a fair use under the Sony Betamax case and other precedents.  I conclude by analyzing the antitrust implications of the struggle between copyright owners and technology companies for control over digital marketing and distribution technologies. Joint ventures between major copyright holders may be the only viable alternative for the foreseeable future to technology company search technologies such as Google Book Search, just as MusicNet and Movielink proved to be the only viable alternative for many years to peer-to-peer digital media search technologies. Such joint ventures may facilitate price-fixing and suppression of digital media output, dangers that courts considering the legality of Google Book Search should explore carefully. At the same time, I suggest reasons for courts to be skeptical about publishing industry assertions that by scanning books, Google will seize control over all the content in the world.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Google Book Search and Fair Use: iTunes for Authors, or Napster for BooksMiami Law Review,  2006Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Of Blogs, eBooks, and Broadband: Access to Digital Media as a First Amendment RightHofstra Law Review,  2007Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The FCC's New Theory of the First AmendmentSanta Clara Law Review,  2011This article describes the Federal Communications Commission’s new theory of the First Amendment,... more This article describes the Federal Communications Commission’s new theory of the First Amendment, as articulated in the agency's decision sanctioning Comcast for blocking certain peer-to-peer file sharing traffic, later reversed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The article proposes a unified theory with which to analyze First Amendment challenges to proposed regulation of discriminatory denials of access to broadcast, cable, or Internet media. It builds on my previous research into the democracy-promoting implications of decentralized, collaborative Internet media as opposed to traditional media's top-down model.  My analysis begins with an account of the fall and rise of FCC regulation of the mass media and the Internet through four distinct eras in the FCC’s conception of its own authority and the constraints imposed upon it by the First Amendment. In the first era, the “statist regulatory period,” the FCC doled out telecommunications licenses to entities favored by the government and vigorously regulated broadcast content. In the second era, the “democracy-promotion period,” the FCC regulated the content of speech in an attempt to engender a more robust democratic culture in the aftermath of World War II. In the third era, the “deregulatory period,” the FCC tolerated blatant discrimination against minority political or ethnic viewpoints, as well as long-term campaigns to reduce competition in media content by merging corporate owners. In the fourth and most recent era, which began in 2005 with renewed citizen activism and congressional attention to bias within the mass media and Internet, the FCC announced new nondiscrimination principles focused on the Internet, but with clear implications for broadcast media.  The FCC handed a stunning victory to advocates of media accountability in 2005 and again in 2008 when it endorsed a different theory of the First Amendment. This new theory moves away from selective deregulation of corporate media (i.e. granting federal or state exclusive rights without any countervailing responsibilities to the public) by prioritizing the right of media consumers to access content and communications platforms on a more equal footing, rather than the right of large corporations to acquire and control ever-larger combinations of media infrastructure. The decision, if upheld, may herald a new era of attention to voters’ First Amendment interests in accessing and benefiting from regulated telecommunications facilities such as broadcast airwaves or cable networks. I attempt to theorize this new vision of the First Amendment using four strands of constitutional and legal theory: formalist attention to constitutional text and precedent, purposivist and originalist emphasis on the principles and contexts underlying constitutional text, economic approaches to efficient or cost-avoiding interpretations of legal language, and egalitarian advocacy of citizen-empowering constitutional narratives.  Except, perhaps, for formalist analysis, which applies ambiguously to FCC regulation of private telecommunications firms, the theories support the FCC’s new emphasis on free speech and access to knowledge. Formalism, whether at the level of text or precedent, provides little clear basis for a theory of the First Amendment that permits the federal government to regulate electronic speech in the interest of large corporations, but without any safeguards for the public interest in accessing scarce rights-of-way, or airwaves. Originalist analysis reveals that the purposes of the First Amendment were to prioritize the penetration of facts and debate relevant to controversial political issues throughout the body of the citizenry, rather than the illusory liberty interests of corporations or combinations of government infrastructure licensees. Economic analysis confirms that permitting federal or state infrastructure licensees to leverage their unique control over strategic communications bottlenecks into ownership of content providers threatens the total output, competitive pricing, and overall quality of content. Not only the theorists of antitrust and telecommunications economics, but also those scholars doing empirical work on the output of news and political content, confirm the materialization of these threats. Finally, substantive political theory underlines the link between media consolidation and deregulation and a resulting crisis in access by citizens and voters to essential information and diverse viewpoints.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Postmodern Censorship of Pacifist Content on Television and the InternetSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The 'Monster' That Ate Social Networking?Cyberspace Law: Censorship and Regulation of the InternetThis chapter analyzes the privacy, intellectual property, competition policy, and human rights la... more This chapter analyzes the privacy, intellectual property, competition policy, and human rights law implications of the rise of Facebook and the threat of a natural monopoly in social networking. Facebook instructed its users that it may provide friend lists and other profile information to third parties, as well as to law enforcement when it thinks public safety is at issue. The service warned users that it may disclose information without permission, but with “notice, such as by telling you about it in [a data use] policy.” In 2009, Facebook announced the settlement of a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of users of Facebook as of November 2007, which involved privacy violations. Facebook subsequently became embroiled in patent litigation, democratization movements, and the mass surveillance of unsuspecting users, and this chapter briefly surveys its role in these controversies.The book in which it appears explores what the American Civil Liberties Union calls the ‘third era’ in cyberspace, in which filters "fundamentally alter the architectural structure of the Internet, with significant implications for free speech." Although courts and nongovernmental organizations increasingly insist upon constitutional and other legal guarantees of a freewheeling Internet, multinational corporations compete to produce tools and strategies for making it more predictable. When Google attempted to improve our access to information contained in books and the World Wide Web, copyright litigation began to tie up the process of making content searchable, and resulted in the wrongful removal of access to thousands if not millions of works. Just as the courts were insisting that using trademarks online to criticize their owners is First Amendment-protected speech, corporations and trade associations accelerated their development of ways to make Internet companies liable for their users’ infringing words and actions, potentially circumventing free speech rights. Finally, as social networking and content-sharing sites have proliferated, so have content-detecting tools for finding, flagging, and deleting content that makes one or another corporation or trade association fear for its image or profits.The book provides a legal history of Internet regulation since the mid-1990s, with a particular focus on efforts by patent, trademark, and copyright owners to compel Internet firms to monitor their online offerings and remove or pay for any violations of the rights of others.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Future According to Google: Technology Policy from the Standpoint of America's Fastest-Growing Technology CompanyYale Journal of Law and Technology,  2009Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Free Speech Institutions and Fair Use of Copyrighted Work: A New Agenda for Copyright Reform33 Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 673,  2016Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Myths of the Internet as the Death of Old MediaAmerican Intellectual Property Law Association Quarterly Journal,  2014This article analyzes claims that the Internet is destroying the book publishing, music, and movi... more This article analyzes claims that the Internet is destroying the book publishing, music, and movie industries, and that it needs to be strictly regulated by civil and criminal copyright laws to save companies and jobs. I survey empirical evidence that copyright industry sales and profits have increased, that economic trends other than infringement on the Internet drive fluctuations in music sales, and that the incentives to produce copyrighted work do not respond directly to minor variations in copyright doctrine or to significant new copyright enforcement laws.  The article analyzes ten fundamental myths used to justify Internet censorship and draconian copyright reforms. Four of these myths concern the allegedly negative relationship between Internet usage of various kinds and the profitability or sales of old media firms. Three of the myths are designed to motivate Congress or the courts to endorse restrictions on Internet content using the justification that old media will benefit from such restrictions, thereby creating jobs and economic growth. The final three myths involve false assumptions that criminalizing Internet activity will save old media firms. Among other evidence that is useful to dispel these myths, this article examines: book and audiovisual media consumption in the aggregate; the continued growth of old-media entertainment sales such as books, music transactions, and entertainment subscriptions or admissions despite massive growth in Internet use since 1994; the findings of regression analyses exploring the relationship between Internet file-sharing software use and the music industry’s retail sales; socioeconomic trends other than Internet use that may explain changes in the level of music sales in the United States; an empirical disconnect between the level of Internet-based infringement of recording industry copyrights and the level of U.S. record labels’ sales; the sales, total employment, profits, and market capitalization of firms in the U.S. film and television sectors in an environment of large-scale Internet-based copyright infringement; survey results suggesting that musicians may not see music file-sharing as having a severe impact on their livelihoods; the effects of copyright term extension on the number of feature films released and the aggregate investment in creating and marketing them in the United States, as well as on the number of films released in Europe; the lack of a correlation between copyright criminalization and subsequent reductions in Internet-based infringement in the United States; and the benefits, if any, of a draconian new copyright-enforcement regime in France from the standpoint of film and music production and sales. Topics addressed include Internet freedom, criminalization of Internet and YouTube usage, copyright reform, Internet Policy Task Force, Department of Commerce, streaming, file-sharing, peer-to-peer technologies, Megaupload, the First Amendment, vagueness, overbreadth, Fifth Amendment, and vague laws.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
WIPO and the American ConstitutionVanderbilt Journal of Entertainment and Technology Law,  2014In this Essay, I sketch out some First Amendment and Due Process issues that arise from recent ef... more In this Essay, I sketch out some First Amendment and Due Process issues that arise from recent efforts by the World Intellectual Property Organization (“WIPO”) to revise U.S. copyright law. My focus will be on the WIPO Treaty on Audiovisual Performances (the “AV Treaty” for short). The AV Treaty expands upon other efforts to make it unlawful to reproduce or use nonliteral material having substantial value to another author; display or perform fragmentary content having substantial value to a record company or movie studio; or make a movie or YouTube video by transforming, recasting, or adapting information having substantial value to a corporation. Under WIPO's leadership, U.S. copyright law is moving to transfer more of the social value associated with copyrighted work to the copyright owner, and away from subsequent authors and consumers.  The Essay describes WIPO and its role in expanding copyright-like rights via the AV Treaty and statutes such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”). It analyzes key provisions of the AV Treaty for whether they change U.S. law, or merely globalize its existing rules. Article 5 of it states that independently of any economic rights, and even after the transfer of them, a performer has a right as to his or her fixed, live performances, to object to any distortion, mutilation or other modification of his performances that would be prejudicial to his reputation, taking due account of the nature of audiovisual fixations. Article 6 seems to grant a broad new right to restrict the “communication” of unfixed performances not already broadcast, to which right some exceptions “may” be granted, but do not have to be granted. Article 12 contemplates additional royalties to be paid to performers; irrespective of existing contracts relating to performances embodied in movies, songs, television shows, or video games. Article 15 of the AV Treaty could provide legal reinforcement to efforts to utilize digital rights management and technological protection measures so as to restrict the fair use of performances. Article 16 of the AV Treaty requires parties to provide civil remedies against those who negligently facilitate the availability or distribution of a performance, knowing or having reason to know that the credits or terms of use have been omitted. The Essay describes the threat posed to the First Amendment by the AV Treaty’s proposed changes to U.S. law. The AV Treaty alters the traditional contours of copyright in the United States by introducing moral rights, and outlawing the making available of performances even without distributing them. The Essay analyzes these First Amendment threats using the rubric provided by Eldred v. Ashcroft. It also outlines the Due Process concerns that arise from the AV Treaty’s vague language and arbitrary distinctions. The statutory damages that may be available under U.S. law if ordinary copyright remedies are extended to performance rights will threaten the Excessive Fines Clause of the Eighth Amendment, as well as Due Process. Moreover, the Essay points out that the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement may multiply all of the censorial provisions of the AV Treaty, by stating that criminal copyright infringement shall include instances of related rights infringements that have no direct or indirect motivation of financial gain. The AV Treaty may also interact with proposals such as the Stop Online Piracy Act, which would make it easier for corporations or executive agencies to seize web sites that do not themselves infringe copyrights, but that might facilitate acts of infringement. World Intellectual Property Organization, WIPO, audiovisual, performances, treaty, WCT, WPPT, phonograms, fixation, unfixed, authorship, copyright, fair use, First Amendment, Due Process, YouTube, Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, eBay, Amazon.com, Google, Yahoo!, Flava, SOPA, moral rightsSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pirates of the Information Infrastructure: Blackstonian Copyright and the First AmendmentSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Crypto Coin Offerings and the Freedom of ExpressionChapman Law Review ,  2020Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether encourage the owners of computing resources to bring e... more Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether encourage the owners of computing resources to bring ever-increasing levels of processing power to bear in validating the distributed ledger of cryptocurrency purchases and sales.  Initial coin offerings (ICOs) involve the sale of cryptocurrency coins or tokens with the aid of on white papers.  Crypto coin white papers involve a mixture of scientific, sociopolitical, and economic speech.  They often contain extended arguments for how users of the coins and the Internet or society in general could benefit from a new way of organizing economic relations, assembling and deploying assets, or exchanging messages or entitlements.  While they share some similarities with forms of commercial speech that enjoy quite limited First Amendment protection, they are arguably more similar to other economic statements that enjoy First Amendment protection against censorship, or to direct advertisements that are deemed insufficiently misleading to result in civil liability.  Nevertheless, some interpretations of U.S. securities and commodities law would prohibit authors of such white papers from raising funds for crypto coin platforms if the coin's users expect to earn a return on their investment and rely on the coin issuer's expertise or representations.  This article explores principles of free expression that could shield truthful speech and subjective opinions about new crypto coins from some of the worst chilling effects of U.S. laws.  It examines ways in which crypto coins may benefit marketplace participants and economic efficiency, including by providing a beneficial alternative to traditional software app stores, logistics infrastructures, or banking and payment systems.  It then surveys the First Amendment and other constitutional issues that onerous regulations raise, and draws analogies to doctrines that reconcile the freedom of economic expression with the cause of consumer or investor protection under the Lanham Act, the Securities Exchange Act, state deceptive practices laws, and the law of warranties.  Several themes in the case law are ripe for application to ICOs: the need for precision and proportionality in framing regulation, the proscription against regulatory overkill and one-size-fits-all approaches, and the requirement that basic freedoms be preserved.  More specifically, the securities or commodities are not properly read as applying to many crypto coin offering papers, and describes other concepts such as virtual commodities or virtual barter systems from other jurisdictions that may be a better fit.  The article urges American lawyers and judges to probe thoroughly whether the interests served by prohibitions and penalties on crypto coin speech justify the burdens imposed on information providers. Regulating false statements of existing fact and enhancing the remedies for making them will be more effective and less constitutionally infirm measures than those aimed at preempting merely potential harm.  Courts must balance the values of fraud prevention and remediation with the values of freedom of expression and expanded economic opportunity.  Analogous fields of law provide several tools with which to achieve this balance, including the distinction between general or universal fraud prohibitions and narrower securities or commodities regulation regimes, the difference between forward-looking and other statements in several area of fraud law, First Amendment principles governing professional and occupational licensing, and rules against vague or discriminatorily enforced regulations.  keywords: cryptocurrencies, tokens, appcoins, altcoins, coins, coin offerings, ICOs, "initial coin offerings", free speech, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of information, cloud computing, virtualization, virtual communities,  virtual currencies, virtual commodities, digital barter, securities law, regulation, consumer protection, false advertising, Lanham Act, misleading, First Amendment, commercial speech, least restrictive means, overbreadth, vagueness, Fifth Amendment, due process, human rights, Telegram, TON, Kik, Kin, Kik Interactive, Bitcoin, Ether, smart contracts, crowdfunding, SEC, The DAO, CFTC, CFPB, European Union, EU, banking, risk, innovation, technology, financial technology, payment systems, multistakeholder governance, polycentric governance, puffery, bespeaks caution doctrine, California, New York, Texas, occupational licensing, libertarianismSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Enjoining the Cloud: Equity, Irreparability, and RemediesVillanova Law Review ,  2019This article examines the tailoring of remedies in cases involving charges of online infringement... more This article examines the tailoring of remedies in cases involving charges of online infringement of copyrights or trademarks. When websites communicate copyrighted works to members of the public or use trademarks unlawfully, domestic requirements of equitable relief come into tension with global enforcement cultures. Courts sometimes enjoin entire websites or order the defendant and its cloud service providers to end any use of the copyrights or trademarks at issue, while other courts limit their injunctions to the adjudicated conduct and the parties before them. The question sometimes arises whether a site-killing or device-killing order should issue in light of the defendant’s infringement and third parties’ facilitation of it, or whether the defendant should simply be ordered to desist from the infringing acts (and related parties from facilitating those specific acts). An increasingly prominent alternative is to withhold an injunctive remedy in view of the potential recovery of monetary relief. This article explores why, despite statutory language, case law precedent, and political consensus that website blocking should not occur, the sweeping remedy of site blocking (enjoining any facilitation of site access) continues to be available. It argues that site-blocking and orders to third parties not to index or provide services to a website are in tension with the Supreme Court’s decision in eBay, the First Amendment case for narrowly targeted remedies when publishing and digital communication are at stake, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act’s limiting language, remedial proportionality doctrine, and the failure of the Stop Online Piracy Act of 2011 in Congress. Remedial inequities are also emerging as between patent and copyright or trademark holders, because the bare loss of control of intellectual property is justifying copyright and trademark injunctions despite patent law cases suggesting that impaired exclusivity and negotiating leverage are not necessarily “irreparable injury.”Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Copyright Class Struggle: Creative Economies in a Social Media AgeCopyright Class Struggle: Creative Economies in a Social Media Age,  2018Control over digital, literary, filmed, musical, and other creative assets is vitally important t... more Control over digital, literary, filmed, musical, and other creative assets is vitally important to earning an income in our time.  How do different players in the complex ecosystems of entertainment, software, and social media articulate their claims to a greater piece of the economic pie?  This book explores legal controversies that emerge when authors, singers, filmmakers, and social media barons leverage legal rights into major paydays.  The stories of real authors fighting digital-media or Hollywood giants are told, and situated alongside broader struggles for copyright justice.  Copyright reform efforts are a focus, including those relating to employment and labour disputes in copyright, constitutional rights in intellectual property law, patent reform and the plight of the independent inventor, the legality of posting mashups and remixes online, streaming royalties due to actors and musicians, and possibilities for free access on search engines to our shared culture heritage.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Cyberspace Law: Censorship and Regulation of the Internet In this book, editor Hannibal Travis of FIU contends that expansive Internet service provider lia... more In this book, editor Hannibal Travis of FIU contends that expansive Internet service provider liability for illegal expression will censor lawful expression and slow the commercialization of innovative Internet-based communications platforms.  Chapter 1, by the University of California's Margreth Barret, describes the stakes for freedom of expression when traditional rules of trademark law are applied to Web addresses, search engines, and other Internet uses.  The historic distinction is between the use of a trademark to confuse consumers, and its use as a description in comparative advertising, invitations to try competitive products, and the like.  Eroding his distinction has implications for the ability of startups and other less dominant brands to establish themselves by placing their advertisements where dominant brands’ customers are likely to see them.  Moreover, challenges to it may end up censoring commentary on the Web.  Chapter 2, by Howard's Lateef Mtima, argues that digitization and searchability of the world’s recorded knowledge is the ultimate fulfillment of the promise of copyright. We now possess the technology – mass-digitization projects and worldwide access to information over the Internet – so what we need is the social commitment to make digitized content available to underserved and marginalized communities.  Google Book Search project to scan books in libraries and make their contents searchable may herald in the progressive evolution of copyright law and policy. Although the court hearing the class action by authors and private lawsuits by publishers rejected the early versions of the settlement, it recognized the project’s extraordinary social utility.  This chapter advocates focused initiatives to diversify the available digitized content and expand the range of permissible applications.   Chapter 3, by Southern University's Johanna Dennis, maintains that patent law is generating complex answers to the question of who owns methods of doing business online.  As the courts struggle to decide what is and is not patentable, Internet industry leaders such as Google, eBay, Facebook and Yahoo are seeking as much patent protection as they can, while attempting to deny comparable protection to smaller firms that may challenge their alleged infringements in court.  By maximizing their intellectual property and patent portfolios, companies engaged in e-commerce, finance and business via the Internet may be better able to protect themselves from threats of infringement, create opportunities for licensing and cross-licensing their patents to others, and wield their patents against upstart competitors.  Chapter 4, by cyberlaw practitioner Amir Hassanabadi, covers the epic battle between leaders of the entertainment and Internet industries in Viacom v. YouTube, raising issues of online copyright infringement, pervasive knowledge of massive infringement, and DMCA takedown notices as red flags triggering a duty to monitor user-generated content. The district court confronted the DMCA’s silence on content filtering. The chapter suggests that the DMCA requires reform to suit a Web 2.0 digital landscape. Content owners and service provides value the tools that the DMCA provides.  In Chapter 4, cyberlaw practitioner Amir Hassanabadi narrates the epic battle of Viacom v. Google and YouTube, featuring allegations of online copyright infringements, pervasive knowledge of massive infringement, and DMCA takedown notices as red flags triggering a potential duty to monitor and filter out copyrighted material.  In Chapter 6, Jasmine Abdel-Khalik of UMKC analyzes how eBay escaped liability for most infringing auctions for Tiffany jewelry by setting up a compliance program and responding quickly to complaints by Tiffany and other major brands.  In Chapter 7, Ann Bartow of Pace Law School Internet companies’ responsibility for their users’ offensive behavior, and especially their harassment of others, and illustrates the stakes involved with the tragic personal story of a woman whose ex-boyfriend posted fake online profiles offering sexual intercourse.   In Chapter 8, Raphael Cohen-Almagor of the University of Hull suggests that cases such as LICRA v. Yahoo! may foretell the end of an era in which the Internet seemed to be a perfect medium for business: a facilitator of unlimited economical propositions to people without any regulatory limitations.  In Chapter 9, Professor Travis explains whether the U.S. federal government has the authority to regulate Internet service providers to ensure Internet infrastructure’s neutrality with respect to the content and applications that are available to Internet users.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission has announced neutrality principles and decided that the cable Internet provider Comcast could be sanctioned for violating them.   A federal appellate court rejected the sanctions for inadequate notice and procedural formality in adopting the principles, as well as due to larger questions about the jurisdiction of the FCC to regulate the Internet.  The U.S. Congress has struggled unsuccessfully to define a consensus policy in this area.  This chapter details the conflict of First Amendment interests between Internet users desiring to send and receive communications and access the applications of their choice, and broadband providers desiring to manage their networks to maintain efficiency, legal compliance, and consumer demand.  The final chapter tells the story of how Facebook became the dominant social networking site, and came under the control of Mark Zuckerberg and his allies through a variety of legal tactics.  It investigates whether Facebook has become a near-monopoly that invades privacy, controls what users can do or say with their friends, and limits the ability of other social networks to compete.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Counter-IP Conspiracies: Patent Alienability and the Sherman Antitrust Act71 Miami Law Review 758,  2017Some patent owners and their attorneys believe that collusive arrangements among potential infrin... more Some patent owners and their attorneys believe that collusive arrangements among potential infringers may result in suppressed prices for patent licenses. An analogous problem exists for aspiring professional athletes, who are the cream of the athletic crop in a way that patent owners may be in the technological arts. Some athletes have claimed that teams collude not to offer competitive remuneration for superlative performance, starting with high school prospects, most clearly at the university and college level, and during the professional league’s drafts and free-agency rulemakings.  Recently, courts have ruled that some collusive arrangements in athletics, amounting to conspiracies not to bid up the value of athletes’ intellectual property rights including their rights of publicity, are subject to antitrust challenge under section 1 of the Sherman Act.  May the same be said for arrangements in the technology arts, when alleged conspiracies depress bids on patent licenses and assignments?  This Article develops a framework for analyzing antitrust case disputes concerning agreements, combinations, and/or conspiracies to undermine the enjoyment and licensing of intellectual property rights. Traditionally, conspiring to depress as well as to raise prices was a per se antitrust violation.  Raising rivals’ costs of revenue and reducing opportunities for the distribution, legal protection, and sale or licensing of rivals’ inventions are anticompetitive tactics. Antitrust law and economic research have regarded such strategies as exclusionary conduct when engaged in by a monopolist, as cartelization or conspiracy when adopted jointly by competitors desiring to regulate their industries,  and as presenting a danger of distorting the market when resulting from mergers or asset purchases.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Economics of Book Digitization and the Google Books LitigationResearch Handbook on Electronic Commerce Law ,  2016Research Handbook on Electronic Commerce Law, edited by John Rothchild, pp. 117-136.  Elgar.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Building Universal Digital Libraries: An Agenda for Copyright ReformPepperdine Law Review,  2006This article proposes a series of copyright reforms to pave the way for digital library projects ... more This article proposes a series of copyright reforms to pave the way for digital library projects like Project Gutenberg, the Internet Archive, and Google Print, which promise to make much of the world's knowledge easily searchable and accessible from anywhere. Existing law frustrates digital library growth and development by granting overlapping, overbroad, and near-perpetual copyrights in books, art, audiovisual works, and digital content. Digital libraries would benefit from an expanded public domain, revitalized fair use doctrine and originality requirement, rationalized systems for copyright registration and transfer, and a new framework for compensating copyright owners for online infringement without imposing derivative copyright liability on technologists. This article's case for reform begins with rolling back the copyright term extensions of recent years, which were upheld by the Supreme Court in Eldred v. Reno. Indefinitely renewable copyrights threaten to marginalize Internet publishing and online libraries by entangling them in endless disputes regarding the rights to decades- or centuries-old works. Similarly, digital library projects are becoming unnecessarily complicated and expensive to undertake due to the assertion by libraries and copyright holding companies of exclusive rights over unoriginal reproductions of public domain works, and the demands of authors that courts block all productive digital uses of their already published but often out-of-print works. Courts should refuse to allow the markets in digital reproductions to be monopolized in this way, and Congress must introduce greater certainty into copyright licensing by requiring more frequent registration and recordation of rights. Courts should also consider the digitizing of copyrighted works for the benefit of the public to be fair use, particularly where only excerpts of the works are posted online for public perusal. A digital library like Google Print needs a degree of certainty - which existing law does not provide - that it will not be punished for making miles of printed matter instantly searchable in the comfort of one's home, or for rescuing orphan works from obscurity or letting consumers preview a few pages of a book before buying it. Finally, the Supreme Court's recognition of liability for inducement of digital copyright infringement in the Grokster case may have profoundly negative consequences for digital library technology. The article discusses how recent proposals for statutory file-sharing licenses may reduce the bandwidth and storage costs of digital libraries, and thereby make them more comprehensive and accessible.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Estimating the Economic Impact of Mass Digitization Projects on Copyright Holders: Evidence from the Google Book Search LitigationJournal of the Copyright Society of the USA,  2011Google Book Search (GBS) has captured the attention of many commentators and government officials... more Google Book Search (GBS) has captured the attention of many commentators and government officials, but even as they vigorously debate its legality, few of them have marshaled new facts to estimate its likely effects on publishing and other information markets. This Article challenges the conventional wisdom propounded by the U.S. and German governments, as well as Microsoft and other competitors of Google, concerning the likely economic impact of mass book-digitization projects. Originally advanced by publishing industry lobbying groups, the prevailing account of mass book-digitization projects is that they will devastate authors and publishers, just as Napster and its heirs have supposedly devastated musicians and music labels. Using the impact of GBS on the revenues and operating incomes of U.S. publishers believing themselves to be the most-affected by it, this Article finds no evidence of a negative impact upon them. To the contrary, it provides some evidence of a positive impact, and proposes further empirical research to identify the mechanisms of digitization’s economic impact.  The debate surrounding the GBS settlement is important to students, writers, researchers, and the general public, as it may decide whether a federal appellate court or even the U.S. Supreme Court allows the best research tool ever designed to survive. If the theory of Microsoft and some publishing trade associations is accepted, the courts may enjoin and destroy GBS, just as Napster was shut down a decade ago.  The Article aims at a preliminary estimate of the economic impact of mass digitization projects, using GBS as a case in point. It finds little support for the much-discussed hypothesis of the Association of American Publishers and Google’s competitors that the mass digitization of major U.S. libraries will reduce the revenues and profits of the most-affected publishers. In fact, the revenues and profits of the publishers who believe themselves to be most aggrieved by GBS, as measured by their willingness to file suit against Google for copyright infringement, increased at a faster rate after the project began, as compared to before its commencement. The rate of growth by publishers most affected by GBS is greater than the growth of the overall U.S. economy or of retail sales. Thus, the very publishers that have sued Google have seen their revenues grow faster than retail sales or the U.S. economy as a whole (measured by gross domestic product). This finding parallels some of the research that has been done since the Napster case on the economic impact of peer-to-peer file sharing on sales of recorded music. Future studies may provide a more granular estimate of the economic impact of frequent downloads or displays of pages of particular books on the sales of such books.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Opting Out of the Internet in the United States and European Union: Copyright, Safe Harbors, and International LawNotre Dame Law Review,  2008Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Google Book Search and Fair Use: iTunes for Authors, or Napster for Books?Miami Law Review,  2006Google plans to digitize the books from five of the world's biggest libraries into a keyword-sear... more Google plans to digitize the books from five of the world's biggest libraries into a keyword-searchable book-browsing library. Some publishers and authors allege that this constitutes a massive piracy of their copyrights in books not yet in the public domain. But I argue that Google Book Search may be a fair use for two interrelated reasons: it is unlikely to reduce the sales of printed books, and it promises to improve the marketing of books via an innovative book marketing platform featuring short previews. Books are an experience good in economic parlance, or a product that must be consumed before full information about its contents and quality becomes available. This makes new technologies that are capable of rapidly searching and previewing relevant passages from books a development that the law should encourage, not burden or restrain.  After introducing the topic, I describe Google's ambitious plan to scan and index up to 15 million library books by 2010, and provide short previews of a few lines each to help users decide whether to buy the books or check them out from a library. I then argue that the fair use limitation on exclusive rights has historically protected efforts such as Google's to address the economic problem of marketing experience goods like books, albums, movies, or games, which consumers must decide whether to buy without assessing their quality and characteristics beforehand. Fair use partially resolved this problem by permitting the unauthorized dissemination of extracts of another's work in a catalogue, review, abridgement in a periodical, or other work of criticism or commentary.  The bulk of the Article analyzes the copyright and fair use implications of lawsuits challenging Google Book Search, filed by several publishers and a putative class of up to 8,000 published authors. I contend that by reproducing excerpts from scanned books for the purpose of improving access to information about books on the internet, Google is making a transformative use of the books that should qualify as a fair use. Courts have recognized that copyright owners are not entitled to gain a monopoly over the market for information about their works, or to suppress efforts to improve the public's access to information and high-quality research tools. Google Book Search is distinguishable from prior attempts to disseminate complete copies of protected works, from newspaper articles in the Free Republic case to songs in the Napster and MP3.com cases. Insofar as most works being scanned by Google have already been published, and are nonfictional and fact-based, these facts also strongly support Google's fair use arguments.  Most importantly, the evidence so far is that Google Book Search will dramatically improve, rather than detract from, the sales of books that it permits users to find, preview, and purchase. Google Book Search has tripled the sales of many books, and other online previews of books have also markedly increased sales. Total book sales are up substantially in the period after Google began scanning copyrighted books, indicating a fair use under the Sony Betamax case and other precedents.  I conclude by analyzing the antitrust implications of the struggle between copyright owners and technology companies for control over digital marketing and distribution technologies. Joint ventures between major copyright holders may be the only viable alternative for the foreseeable future to technology company search technologies such as Google Book Search, just as MusicNet and Movielink proved to be the only viable alternative for many years to peer-to-peer digital media search technologies. Such joint ventures may facilitate price-fixing and suppression of digital media output, dangers that courts considering the legality of Google Book Search should explore carefully. At the same time, I suggest reasons for courts to be skeptical about publishing industry assertions that by scanning books, Google will seize control over all the content in the world.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Google Book Search and Fair Use: iTunes for Authors, or Napster for BooksMiami Law Review,  2006Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Of Blogs, eBooks, and Broadband: Access to Digital Media as a First Amendment RightHofstra Law Review,  2007Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The FCC's New Theory of the First AmendmentSanta Clara Law Review,  2011This article describes the Federal Communications Commission’s new theory of the First Amendment,... more This article describes the Federal Communications Commission’s new theory of the First Amendment, as articulated in the agency's decision sanctioning Comcast for blocking certain peer-to-peer file sharing traffic, later reversed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The article proposes a unified theory with which to analyze First Amendment challenges to proposed regulation of discriminatory denials of access to broadcast, cable, or Internet media. It builds on my previous research into the democracy-promoting implications of decentralized, collaborative Internet media as opposed to traditional media's top-down model.  My analysis begins with an account of the fall and rise of FCC regulation of the mass media and the Internet through four distinct eras in the FCC’s conception of its own authority and the constraints imposed upon it by the First Amendment. In the first era, the “statist regulatory period,” the FCC doled out telecommunications licenses to entities favored by the government and vigorously regulated broadcast content. In the second era, the “democracy-promotion period,” the FCC regulated the content of speech in an attempt to engender a more robust democratic culture in the aftermath of World War II. In the third era, the “deregulatory period,” the FCC tolerated blatant discrimination against minority political or ethnic viewpoints, as well as long-term campaigns to reduce competition in media content by merging corporate owners. In the fourth and most recent era, which began in 2005 with renewed citizen activism and congressional attention to bias within the mass media and Internet, the FCC announced new nondiscrimination principles focused on the Internet, but with clear implications for broadcast media.  The FCC handed a stunning victory to advocates of media accountability in 2005 and again in 2008 when it endorsed a different theory of the First Amendment. This new theory moves away from selective deregulation of corporate media (i.e. granting federal or state exclusive rights without any countervailing responsibilities to the public) by prioritizing the right of media consumers to access content and communications platforms on a more equal footing, rather than the right of large corporations to acquire and control ever-larger combinations of media infrastructure. The decision, if upheld, may herald a new era of attention to voters’ First Amendment interests in accessing and benefiting from regulated telecommunications facilities such as broadcast airwaves or cable networks. I attempt to theorize this new vision of the First Amendment using four strands of constitutional and legal theory: formalist attention to constitutional text and precedent, purposivist and originalist emphasis on the principles and contexts underlying constitutional text, economic approaches to efficient or cost-avoiding interpretations of legal language, and egalitarian advocacy of citizen-empowering constitutional narratives.  Except, perhaps, for formalist analysis, which applies ambiguously to FCC regulation of private telecommunications firms, the theories support the FCC’s new emphasis on free speech and access to knowledge. Formalism, whether at the level of text or precedent, provides little clear basis for a theory of the First Amendment that permits the federal government to regulate electronic speech in the interest of large corporations, but without any safeguards for the public interest in accessing scarce rights-of-way, or airwaves. Originalist analysis reveals that the purposes of the First Amendment were to prioritize the penetration of facts and debate relevant to controversial political issues throughout the body of the citizenry, rather than the illusory liberty interests of corporations or combinations of government infrastructure licensees. Economic analysis confirms that permitting federal or state infrastructure licensees to leverage their unique control over strategic communications bottlenecks into ownership of content providers threatens the total output, competitive pricing, and overall quality of content. Not only the theorists of antitrust and telecommunications economics, but also those scholars doing empirical work on the output of news and political content, confirm the materialization of these threats. Finally, substantive political theory underlines the link between media consolidation and deregulation and a resulting crisis in access by citizens and voters to essential information and diverse viewpoints.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Postmodern Censorship of Pacifist Content on Television and the InternetSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The 'Monster' That Ate Social Networking?Cyberspace Law: Censorship and Regulation of the InternetThis chapter analyzes the privacy, intellectual property, competition policy, and human rights la... more This chapter analyzes the privacy, intellectual property, competition policy, and human rights law implications of the rise of Facebook and the threat of a natural monopoly in social networking. Facebook instructed its users that it may provide friend lists and other profile information to third parties, as well as to law enforcement when it thinks public safety is at issue. The service warned users that it may disclose information without permission, but with “notice, such as by telling you about it in [a data use] policy.” In 2009, Facebook announced the settlement of a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of users of Facebook as of November 2007, which involved privacy violations. Facebook subsequently became embroiled in patent litigation, democratization movements, and the mass surveillance of unsuspecting users, and this chapter briefly surveys its role in these controversies.The book in which it appears explores what the American Civil Liberties Union calls the ‘third era’ in cyberspace, in which filters "fundamentally alter the architectural structure of the Internet, with significant implications for free speech." Although courts and nongovernmental organizations increasingly insist upon constitutional and other legal guarantees of a freewheeling Internet, multinational corporations compete to produce tools and strategies for making it more predictable. When Google attempted to improve our access to information contained in books and the World Wide Web, copyright litigation began to tie up the process of making content searchable, and resulted in the wrongful removal of access to thousands if not millions of works. Just as the courts were insisting that using trademarks online to criticize their owners is First Amendment-protected speech, corporations and trade associations accelerated their development of ways to make Internet companies liable for their users’ infringing words and actions, potentially circumventing free speech rights. Finally, as social networking and content-sharing sites have proliferated, so have content-detecting tools for finding, flagging, and deleting content that makes one or another corporation or trade association fear for its image or profits.The book provides a legal history of Internet regulation since the mid-1990s, with a particular focus on efforts by patent, trademark, and copyright owners to compel Internet firms to monitor their online offerings and remove or pay for any violations of the rights of others.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Future According to Google: Technology Policy from the Standpoint of America's Fastest-Growing Technology CompanyYale Journal of Law and Technology,  2009Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Free Speech Institutions and Fair Use of Copyrighted Work: A New Agenda for Copyright Reform33 Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 673,  2016Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Myths of the Internet as the Death of Old MediaAmerican Intellectual Property Law Association Quarterly Journal,  2014This article analyzes claims that the Internet is destroying the book publishing, music, and movi... more This article analyzes claims that the Internet is destroying the book publishing, music, and movie industries, and that it needs to be strictly regulated by civil and criminal copyright laws to save companies and jobs. I survey empirical evidence that copyright industry sales and profits have increased, that economic trends other than infringement on the Internet drive fluctuations in music sales, and that the incentives to produce copyrighted work do not respond directly to minor variations in copyright doctrine or to significant new copyright enforcement laws.  The article analyzes ten fundamental myths used to justify Internet censorship and draconian copyright reforms. Four of these myths concern the allegedly negative relationship between Internet usage of various kinds and the profitability or sales of old media firms. Three of the myths are designed to motivate Congress or the courts to endorse restrictions on Internet content using the justification that old media will benefit from such restrictions, thereby creating jobs and economic growth. The final three myths involve false assumptions that criminalizing Internet activity will save old media firms. Among other evidence that is useful to dispel these myths, this article examines: book and audiovisual media consumption in the aggregate; the continued growth of old-media entertainment sales such as books, music transactions, and entertainment subscriptions or admissions despite massive growth in Internet use since 1994; the findings of regression analyses exploring the relationship between Internet file-sharing software use and the music industry’s retail sales; socioeconomic trends other than Internet use that may explain changes in the level of music sales in the United States; an empirical disconnect between the level of Internet-based infringement of recording industry copyrights and the level of U.S. record labels’ sales; the sales, total employment, profits, and market capitalization of firms in the U.S. film and television sectors in an environment of large-scale Internet-based copyright infringement; survey results suggesting that musicians may not see music file-sharing as having a severe impact on their livelihoods; the effects of copyright term extension on the number of feature films released and the aggregate investment in creating and marketing them in the United States, as well as on the number of films released in Europe; the lack of a correlation between copyright criminalization and subsequent reductions in Internet-based infringement in the United States; and the benefits, if any, of a draconian new copyright-enforcement regime in France from the standpoint of film and music production and sales. Topics addressed include Internet freedom, criminalization of Internet and YouTube usage, copyright reform, Internet Policy Task Force, Department of Commerce, streaming, file-sharing, peer-to-peer technologies, Megaupload, the First Amendment, vagueness, overbreadth, Fifth Amendment, and vague laws.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
WIPO and the American ConstitutionVanderbilt Journal of Entertainment and Technology Law,  2014In this Essay, I sketch out some First Amendment and Due Process issues that arise from recent ef... more In this Essay, I sketch out some First Amendment and Due Process issues that arise from recent efforts by the World Intellectual Property Organization (“WIPO”) to revise U.S. copyright law. My focus will be on the WIPO Treaty on Audiovisual Performances (the “AV Treaty” for short). The AV Treaty expands upon other efforts to make it unlawful to reproduce or use nonliteral material having substantial value to another author; display or perform fragmentary content having substantial value to a record company or movie studio; or make a movie or YouTube video by transforming, recasting, or adapting information having substantial value to a corporation. Under WIPO's leadership, U.S. copyright law is moving to transfer more of the social value associated with copyrighted work to the copyright owner, and away from subsequent authors and consumers.  The Essay describes WIPO and its role in expanding copyright-like rights via the AV Treaty and statutes such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”). It analyzes key provisions of the AV Treaty for whether they change U.S. law, or merely globalize its existing rules. Article 5 of it states that independently of any economic rights, and even after the transfer of them, a performer has a right as to his or her fixed, live performances, to object to any distortion, mutilation or other modification of his performances that would be prejudicial to his reputation, taking due account of the nature of audiovisual fixations. Article 6 seems to grant a broad new right to restrict the “communication” of unfixed performances not already broadcast, to which right some exceptions “may” be granted, but do not have to be granted. Article 12 contemplates additional royalties to be paid to performers; irrespective of existing contracts relating to performances embodied in movies, songs, television shows, or video games. Article 15 of the AV Treaty could provide legal reinforcement to efforts to utilize digital rights management and technological protection measures so as to restrict the fair use of performances. Article 16 of the AV Treaty requires parties to provide civil remedies against those who negligently facilitate the availability or distribution of a performance, knowing or having reason to know that the credits or terms of use have been omitted. The Essay describes the threat posed to the First Amendment by the AV Treaty’s proposed changes to U.S. law. The AV Treaty alters the traditional contours of copyright in the United States by introducing moral rights, and outlawing the making available of performances even without distributing them. The Essay analyzes these First Amendment threats using the rubric provided by Eldred v. Ashcroft. It also outlines the Due Process concerns that arise from the AV Treaty’s vague language and arbitrary distinctions. The statutory damages that may be available under U.S. law if ordinary copyright remedies are extended to performance rights will threaten the Excessive Fines Clause of the Eighth Amendment, as well as Due Process. Moreover, the Essay points out that the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement may multiply all of the censorial provisions of the AV Treaty, by stating that criminal copyright infringement shall include instances of related rights infringements that have no direct or indirect motivation of financial gain. The AV Treaty may also interact with proposals such as the Stop Online Piracy Act, which would make it easier for corporations or executive agencies to seize web sites that do not themselves infringe copyrights, but that might facilitate acts of infringement. World Intellectual Property Organization, WIPO, audiovisual, performances, treaty, WCT, WPPT, phonograms, fixation, unfixed, authorship, copyright, fair use, First Amendment, Due Process, YouTube, Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, eBay, Amazon.com, Google, Yahoo!, Flava, SOPA, moral rightsSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pirates of the Information Infrastructure: Blackstonian Copyright and the First AmendmentSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Trademarks, Legal Remedies, and Social InjusticesThis paper, which was prepared for a proposed research handbook on intellectual property and soci... more This paper, which was prepared for a proposed research handbook on intellectual property and social justice, this chapter analyzes the origin and extent of U.S. trademark rights, and introduces issues of moral and social justice that arise in its implementation.  Within the context of the handbook, it describes concepts that may be employed in other chapters, including  the evolution of some trade secrets into trademarks, brand equity, goodwill, income growth,  entrepreneurship, economic inequality, small and medium-sized enterprises, and social impact.  It then turns to forms of justice embodied in legal doctrines governing trademark acquisition, transfer, infringement, and loss, including corrective justice, distributive justice, and social justice.  The concluding section addresses new technologies used in marketing and branding, and how they may be addressed in the context of trademark's aspirations to forms of justice.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Genocide in the Middle East: The Ottoman Empire, Iraq, and SudanWith an epic historical sweep, “Genocide in the Middle East: The Ottoman Empire, Iraq, and Sudan,... more With an epic historical sweep, “Genocide in the Middle East: The Ottoman Empire, Iraq, and Sudan,” reveals how the struggles by nations and empires to establish their regional supremacy resulted in the destruction of families and human groups. This book presents a new theory of the meaning and scope of the U.N. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 1948, based on the drafting history, the case law of international criminal tribunals, and practice of the states parties to the convention since the 1950s. It then paints an expansive portrait of genocide against populations on all six inhabitable continents, with a special focus on the greater Middle East and North Africa since the nineteenth century. In the Ottoman Empire, the Interior Minister issued orders describing the Armenian, Assyrian, and Greek subjects of the empire as saboteurs allied to Russia who needed to be deported from their homes, and led efforts to massacre entire cities, carry out systematic rapes, and impose famine and disease on the surviving remnants. Similarly, in 1980s Iraq the Revolutionary Command Council of the Ba’ath party issued orders that served as the basis of convictions for genocide and other crimes in the Iraqi High Tribunal. These orders declared that areas serving as a base of operations for Kurdish and pro-Iranian insurgents should be rendered devoid of all life. Finally, in the Darfur region of Sudan, as in southern Sudan before it, the President and Interior Minister issued orders to the army and allied militia to kill and drive out entire communities in regions seeking independence, autonomy, or simply political equality. This book also provides cause for hope, explaining how former dictators have been tried and convicted of genocide and crimes against humanity, and how their victims have won independence and compensation for their losses after the fact in places like Armenia, Israel, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, northern Iraq, East Timor, and southern Sudan.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Wargaming the 'Arab Spring': Predicting Likely Outcomes and Planning U.N. ResponsesThis article surveys the contribution of non-state actors to the changes in the Middle East known... more This article surveys the contribution of non-state actors to the changes in the Middle East known popularly as the &quot;Arab Spring.&quot; Scholars have developed three prominent schools of thought on the Arab Spring, which emerged in Tunisia and spread to Egypt, Libya, Bahrain, Yemen, Syria, Iraq, Kuwait, and other countries. One school describes the Arab Spring as a &quot;pristine&quot; popular movement akin to the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, the anti-apartheid movement in southern Africa, the fall of the Berlin Wall and communism in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus, the Tiananmen Square protests, or the Iranian Green Movement. Another argues that it is a change shaped by the great powers, especially the United States acting through the the State Department, the Pentagon, the U.S. Agency for International Development, the International Republican Institute, and the National Endowment for Democracy. Two strands of this theory exist. The first strand, popular among c...Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Right of Return in Iraq: Conceptualizing Insecurity, State Fragility, and Forced Displacementby Hannibal Travis and Shamiran MakoTransitional Justice and Forced Migration: Critical Perspectives from the Global South,  2019Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
A Genocide Trial in Limbo: The Case of the Yezidis and Their NeighborsGeorgetown Journal of International Affairs Online,  2017Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Human Rights in Disaster Policy: Improving the Federal Response to Natural Disasters, Disease Pandemics, and Terrorist AttacksSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
YouTube from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe: Tyrannize Locally, Censor GloballySSRN Electronic Journal,  2000Page 1. Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1809952 YouTube Tyranny 1 Travis Y... more Page 1. Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1809952 YouTube Tyranny 1 Travis YouTube YouTube from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe: Tyrannize Locally, Censor Globally by Hannibal Travis * This chapter attempts ...Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
On the Original Understanding of the Crime of GenocideGenocide Studies and Prevention,  2012"This article [* now available at http://bit.ly/11FpPXI * ] is an extended exercise in 'genocide ... more "This article [* now available at http://bit.ly/11FpPXI * ] is an extended exercise in 'genocide originalism,' or the search for the original understanding and original public meaning of the words and concepts used in the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.  Some leading genocide scholars have propounded a supposedly “legal” definition of genocide that is unduly narrow. Purportedly based on the drafting history of the Genocide Convention, this narrow definition actually rests upon incomplete and selective references to legal sources. This narrow definition also has important effects on debates concerning whether partial genocides, such as by 'ethnic cleansing' may constitute the crime of genocide.  In this article, I survey evidence that the drafters and ratifiers of the Genocide Convention did not adopt a requirement of genocidal intent that would be nearly impossible to satisfy, namely an intent to totally destroy a race. Efforts to equate genocidal intent with total racial destruction have been disturbingly common within the United Nations system over the past decade, including in the findings of International Court of Justice (ICJ) on genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the International Commission of Inquiry on Darfur (ICID) on genocide in western Sudan and eastern Chad, and of the trial chamber of the U.N.-backed International Criminal Court (ICC) on genocide in Darfur. At the root of this misunderstanding is the equation of the intent to destroy a group required by Article II of the Genocide Convention with a deliberate plan or policy of a state to exterminate the members of an entire racial group, or a total genocide. Contrary to this distortion of the Convention, its drafters rejected efforts to limit genocide to total destruction, a plan or policy of destruction, or a motive of racial hatred. This article contends that the original understanding of the crime of genocide did not require a total genocide, and that this original understanding is reflected in the text of the Genocide Convention, the 'travaux preparatoires', and the course of performance of the treaty by the United Nations and its member states."Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The International Arms Trade and the Prevention of Genocide: The Law and Practice of Arming Genocidal GovernmentsImpediments to the Prevention and Intervention of Genocide: A Critical Bibliographic Review,  2012In Impediments to the Prevention and Intervention of Genocide: A Critical Bibliographic Review, e... more In Impediments to the Prevention and Intervention of Genocide: A Critical Bibliographic Review, edited by Samuel Totten and Robert HitchcockeSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Child Soldiers: Children's Rights in Time of War and GenocideThe Plight of Children During and Following GenocideChildren's plight during genocidal episodes shocks the conscience.  It includes becoming victims ... more Children's plight during genocidal episodes shocks the conscience.  It includes becoming victims of mass killings planned by adults, succumbing to the deliberate imposition of conditions upon them that lead to mass death from hunger or disease, and fleeting their homes as refugees and internally displaced persons.  Less commonly, children participate in genocide or crimes against humanity as conscripts or even volunteers in military or paramilitary forces.  This chapter begins with definitions of children and child soldiers, and turns to legal developments surrounding the definitions employed to prohibit the recruitment or use of child soldiers, and the practical impact of these definitions.  The next section of the chapter surveys cases of genocide that involved children or child soldiers in important roles . The chapter concludes with a survey of international law and diplomatic practice relating to child soldiers in contexts of genocide or politicide.    The main focus will be on child soldiers in the 20th and 21st centuries.  The large-scale wars and genocides of the these centuries have influenced international law and practice relating to child soldiers and the theft of children.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Primary Cause of the Darfur Genocide: Government of SudanDarfur Genocide: The Essential Reference Guide,  2020In Alexis Herr (Ed.), Darfur Genocide: The Essential Reference Guide.  Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLI... more In Alexis Herr (Ed.), Darfur Genocide: The Essential Reference Guide.  Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
To What Extent Was International Intervention in Darfur Successful?Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences,  2018In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences (ABC-CLIO, 2016), edited by Padraic Car... more In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences (ABC-CLIO, 2016), edited by Padraic Carlin, Paul Bartrop, Roger W. Smith, & Lee EysturlidSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Genocide in Sudan: The Role of Oil Exploration and the Entitlement of the Victims to ReparationsArizona Journal of Interational and Comparative Law,  Oct 16, 2008Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Freedom or Theocracy?: Constitutionalism in Afghanistan and IraqNorthwestern University Journal of International Human Rights Law,  2005 As in Afghanistan, the Iraqi government installed by the U.S. and its allies has established Ira... more As in Afghanistan, the Iraqi government installed by the U.S. and its allies has established Iraq as a religious state with judicial review of legislation for conformity to an unspecified version of Islamic law, and Iraqi women and religious minorities continue to face grave violations of their human rights.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Armenian Genocide Legacyby Alexis  Demirdjian, Susan  Karamanian, Najwa Nabti, Hannibal Travis, Eugene Sensenig, and Joyce SahyouniThis volume focuses on the impact of the Armenian Genocide on different academic disciplines at t... more This volume focuses on the impact of the Armenian Genocide on different academic disciplines at the crossroads of the centennial commemorations of the Genocide. Its interdisciplinary nature offers the opportunity to analyze the Genocide from different angles using the lens of several fields of study.On the centennial of the acts commonly referred to as the Armenian Genocide, academics and professionals from a variety of disciplines discuss the impact of the Genocide in their respective fields. In this volume, they assess why it still remains relevant to discuss the Genocide today, as well as its global ramifications and its equally long-lasting mark. Some contributions make the case for the use of aspects of the Armenian Genocide for comparative studies, in order to study the emergence of patterns between conflicts. Others focus on the impact of the Genocide on their specific fields of study. Tackling this theme from the perspective of history, law, sociology, anthropology, political science, literature, education and media studies, The Armenian Genocide Legacy relies on an interdisciplinary approach to expose the complexity of the genocidal process, while marking the centennial of the Armenian Genocide.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Constructing the "Armenian Genocide": How Genocide Scholars Unremembered the Ottoman Assyrians and GreeksHidden Genocides: Knowledge, Power, and Memory,  2013This book chapter critically examines the scholarly and political discourse since the 1960s on th... more This book chapter critically examines the scholarly and political discourse since the 1960s on the “Armenian genocide.” Not only have the Assyrian and Greek victims of the anti-Christian massacres of the late Ottoman Empire and early Turkish republic been forgotten, but at times this discourse has actively suppressed  existing historical knowledge about Assyrian and Greek experiences. From the standpoint of critical genocide studies, the “Armenian genocide,” like the “Holocaust,” is the culmination of a long-term campaign to establish a binary racial conflict and the exclusivity of one group’s fate.  These campaigns require a gross simplification of the broader understanding of the crime of genocide as mass murder that prevailed in the 1940s.  This chapter excavates the original understanding of genocidal events that prevailed during and after the world wars, and contrasts it with the narrower, binary constructions of more recent scholarship.  Among other things, it argues that the scale of the anti-Assyrian and anti-Greek aspects of the Ottoman Christian genocide equaled or surpassed the genocide of the Armenians in terms of impact.  Specifically, it is likely that between 640,000 and 760,000 Greeks died in conflict with the Ottoman and Turkish forces between 1914 and 1924, while about 250,000 Assyrians perished in Turkish, Kurdish, and Persian attacks during that period.  By way of comparison, some experts have estimated that between 600,000 and 1.2 Armenians died between 1914 and 1924, while between 800,000 and 3.5 million Armenians survived.  In 1927, the Turkish census revealed that 77,000 Armenians lived in Turkey, but only 71,000 Assyrians and Greeks, combined.  By 1992, the US State Department estimated that only 24,000 Assyrians and Greeks remained, out of a population of at least 1.8 million in 1914.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
On the Existence of National Identity Before 'Imagined Communities': The Example of the Assyrians of Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and PersiaSSRN Electronic Journal,  2000Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Assyrian Genocide: A Tale of Oblivion and DenialForgotten Genocides: Oblivion, Denial, and Memory,  2011This chapter in a volume on Forgotten Genocides analyzes how the Assyrian population was decimate... more This chapter in a volume on Forgotten Genocides analyzes how the Assyrian population was decimated in present-day Turkey, suffering a decline from more than 200,000 persons in the nineteenth century to fewer than 25,000 by 1992,  while in Persia, it declined from more than 100,000 in the 1850s to only 20,000 in the 1950s.  It surveys evidence of genocidal intent that emerged during the anti-Assyrian massacres of 1914 through 1925, including derogatory statements, targeting of ethnic and religious groups, and deprivation of food and shelter to Assyrians.  The chapter argues that contrary to Turkey's denial strategy, the evidence of genocidal intent and targeting revealed a genocide as defined by international law and the UN General Assembly.  According to a review by Ben Voth of Southern Methodist University in the Human Rights Quarterly, this book "interrupts key silences surrounding a variety of such events in humanhistory—dispelling the silence that readily contributes to the ongoing practice of genocide".  Voth describes my chapter as a "strong case" and the "most novel chapter of the text."Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
'Native Christians Massacred': The Ottoman Genocide of the Assyrians During World War IThe Ottoman Empire's widespread persecution of Assyrian civilians during World War I constituted ... more The Ottoman Empire's widespread persecution of Assyrian civilians during World War I constituted a form of genocide, the present-day term for an attempt to destroy a national, ethnic, or religious group, in whole or in part. Although there were no extermination camps on the scale of Auschwitz, the genocide of the Assyrians resembled the Holocaust of Jews, Slavs, Roma people, leftists, homosexuals, and other minorities under Nazi occupation during World War II because Ottoman soldiers and their Kurdish and Persian militia allies subjected hundreds of thousands of Assyrians to a deliberate and systematic campaign of massacre, torture, abduction, deportation, impoverishment, and cultural and ethnic destruction. According to the American ambassador to Constantinople from 1913 to 1916, Henry Morgenthau, who is widely regarded as a principal source of information on the Armenian genocide, the evidence of an Armenian genocide was applicable "with certain modifications" to the Assyrians and the Greeks.  This article surveys this evidence, examines when and how the evidence that Assyrians and Greeks were also targeted by Ottoman or other forces for massacre and other crimes came to be forgotten, and analyzes the evidence utilizing the jurisprudence of international criminal tribunals on the elements of the crime of genocide.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Cultural and Intellectual Property Interests of the Indigenous Peoples of Turkey and IraqTexas Wesleyan Law Review,  2007The U.N. Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples requires states to provide an effective ... more The U.N. Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples requires states to provide an effective remedy to indigenous peoples deprived of their cultural, religious, or intellectual property (IP) without their free, prior and informed consent. The Declaration could prove to be an important safeguard for the indigenous peoples of Iraq and Turkey, the victims for centuries of massacres, assaults on their religious and cultural sites, theft and deterioration of their lands and cultural objects, and forced assimilation. These peoples, among them the Armenians, Assyrians, Greeks, and Yezidis of Turkey and Turkish-occupied Cyprus, and the Armenians, Assyrians, Yezidis, and Mandaeans of Iraq, have lost more than two-thirds of their peak populations, most of their cultural and religious sites, and thousands of priceless artifacts and specimens of visual art.  The European Union has probed these violations of indigenous people's rights as part of the process of bringing Turkish laws and policies into compliance with European human rights standards. The United States has investigated violations of the rights of Iraq’s indigenous peoples in reports issued by the various executive agencies and legislative committees.  My paper will summarize the results of these inquiries, and propose four reforms. First, restitution or compensation should be implemented for the widespread destruction of indigenous peoples’ cultural and intellectual properties by previous Turkish and Iraqi regimes. Second, efforts to promote the security of indigenous peoples’ surviving intellectual and cultural patrimony must be adopted. Third, transnational corporations and other large enterprises such as museums and publishers should respect the rights of indigenous people to protect, access, and use their cultural and intellectual property held outside of Turkey and Iraq. Fourth, policies within Turkey and Iraq that restrict the preservation and transmission of indigenous cultural and intellectual manifestations must be reformed or abolished.  This article also describes the growing body of law governing indigenous peoples' rights, particularly in Europe. Applicable general international law standards are set forth in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 1948, the the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Hague Convention with Respect to the Laws and Customs of War on Land, the Hague Regulations Respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land, Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, the Convention on Biodiversity, the ILO Convention No. 169 concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.  European standards are embodied in the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Copenhagen principles on human rights in the EU, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the OSCE Oslo Recommendations Regarding the Linguistic Rights of National Minorities, and the Council of the European Union's Framework decision on Racism and Xenophobia. In the United States, additional standards are set forth in the Foreign Relations Act of 1961, the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998, the Alien Tort Claims Act, and the Torture Victims Protection Act.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
After Regime Change: United States Law and Policy Regarding Iraqi Refugees, 2003-2008Wayne Law Review,  2009This paper critically examines the legal and public policy discourse in the United States and the... more This paper critically examines the legal and public policy discourse in the United States and the regarding the rights of Iraqi refugees under international law. A sharp contrast has developed between the declarations of U.S. State Department officials and immigration courts on the one hand, and those of United Nations and international non-governmental organizations (INGOs) on the other, regarding the status of displaced Iraqis under the U.N. Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol, and the U.N. Convention on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. In the United States, the State Department and some immigration officials sometimes characterize religious minorities in Iraq as victims of random violence manifesting little or no religious or sectarian targeting. Similarly, at least one U.S. Court of Appeals and the U.S. Department of Justice concluded in the 2005-2008 time frame that because multi-national forces (MNF) led by the U.S. and U.K. were guaranteeing Iraqis' security, even Iraqis who could prove past persecution by the Iraqi government were not refugees, and were not entitled to relief under the Convention Against Torture, which protects persons from being deported to face a risk of torture. As a result, from 2003 through 2006 the United States resettled only a few hundred out of the two million refugees that have fled Iraq since the war. My examination of the public record reveals that these arguments by the State Department and U.S. immigration judges downplaying the scale of the Iraqi refugee crisis are inconsistent with the findings of U.N. bodies, INGOs, other U.S. courts, the State Department’s human rights division, and the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, all of which have documented an increase, rather than a decrease, in persecution on religious, political, and social grounds since the MNF entered Iraq in 2003. U.N. bodies, INGOs, and the press have characterized the two million Iraqis that have fled Iraq since 2003 as refugees from persecution, and have documented that Iraqis murdered on account of their religious or political affiliation are as diverse as a Shi’a Ayatollah, Catholic priests, the head of Iraq’s Communist Party, a deacon of the Mandean faith that follows the teachings of John the Baptist, and, in one day, over 400 Yezidi believers in an ancient angelic faith. The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has recognized that Assyrian Christians accounted for 40 percent of the refugees fleeing Iraq in 2006. The U.S. State Department’s human rights division and U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom have found that Ministry of the Interior “death squads” targeted Sunnis and Baghdad residents with impunity, that hundreds of mosques were destroyed in sectarian violence in 2006, and that Assyrian Christians, Yezidis, and Mandeans were suffering systematic attacks and threats. As such reports gained broader circulation, U.S. immigration courts improved their analysis of the situation in Iraq in the 2007-2008 time frame, and began to reject sweeping claims by U.S. immigration officials that there was no more religious persecution in Iraq.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
How (Much) Artists Are Getting Paid in the Digital AgeIntellectual Property Institute of the California Lawyers Association,  2018This talk, on a panel with Bill Colitre of Music Reports, Inc., dealt with new revenue sources an... more This talk, on a panel with Bill Colitre of Music Reports, Inc., dealt with new revenue sources and the law governing revenue splits in the digital age.  Music streaming, performance rights, and power law distributions were covered in the context of how artists benefit from the U.S. copyright system.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Strategic Considerations in Issuing Guidelines for Unobjectionable FanworksCopyright Society of the USA Mid-Winter Meeting,  2017Fanworks are proliferating across the Internet and in some physical retail and comic-con settings... more Fanworks are proliferating across the Internet and in some physical retail and comic-con settings, leading copyright conglomerates and brand managers to consider issuing guidelines for unobjectionable fanworks.  The guidelines may govern the length, format, actors, and fundraising or marketing of fanworks, such as those based on the Star Trek, Star Wars, Harry Potter, Avengers, or Twilight series. These presentation slides and accompanying Continuing Legal Education materials discuss issues of copyright infringement and fair use in the context of fanworks, describe Paramount's approach to fanworks guidelines, and look to the future of fanworks' creation, dissemination, and monetizationSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Cybercrime for the Trademark Practitioner: Data Security and Privacy IssuesFIU College of Law/INTA Roundtable,  2015This trademark presentation at FIU College of Law was co-sponsored by the International Trademark... more This trademark presentation at FIU College of Law was co-sponsored by the International Trademark Association, as a roundtable.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Rethinking Genocidal Intent at the ICC, a Decade After the Decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber on the Warrant for al-Bashir over DarfurICC Scholars Forum, Leiden Law School, Leiden University,  2019This paper interrogates the definition of genocide used at the International Criminal Court, part... more This paper interrogates the definition of genocide used at the International Criminal Court, particularly at the arrest warrant stage.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Future of Religious Minorities in the Middle Eastby Hannibal Travis, Sargon Donabed, Alda Benjamen, Joseph Hermiz, and Hélène L. ReyLying at the crossroads of many cultures and civilizations, the Middle East has long been home to... more Lying at the crossroads of many cultures and civilizations, the Middle East has long been home to a wealth of religious traditions. In the violent wars and political turbulence now affecting the Middle East, religious minorities are threatened to the point that the future of religious pluralism in the region is in question. At this critical juncture, the conference will bring together a wide variety of scholars, many of Middle Eastern heritage themselves, to share their research on these neglected communities. Presentations will focus on three states where anti-minority violence has been particularly traumatic: Iraq, Syria, and Egypt. The religious groups to be examined are all numerical minorities in these states. Some identify as ethnic minorities, some do not. They experience varying degrees of political and economic marginalization in their home countries, but they are all threatened by the violence that has gripped the region over the last decade.This conference will be organized in three panels of experts examining three crucial conflicts and their repercussions for religious minorities. The first panel will provide historical perspective by tracing the overlooked progression of mass violence against Assyrian Christians, from the 1915-1918 Assyrian Genocide to the 1933 Simele massacre to the current campaign by IS. The second panel will be dedicated to the experience of religious minorities in the ongoing Syrian civil war, a conflict in one of the region’s most religiously-diverse countries that quickly took on sectarian tones. The third will consider the situation and role of religious minorities in post-revolutionary Egypt, particularly the Baha’i community and the Orthodox Copts, the largest religious minority community in the Middle East. This conference will be geared towards academics, University of Chicago students, and especially Middle Eastern communities in the Chicago area, including Assyrians, Copts, Baha’is and others.This conference will challenge oversimplified narratives of sectarianism, nationalism, and democratization. It will also encourage its attendees to reflect on what constitutes “minority” in the Middle Eastern context, the various ways minorities in the Middle East express their identities, the causes of their marginalization and persecution, and the consequences of their potential extinction.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Darfur Debate: Applying the Genocide Convention and Awarding Reparations to the VictimsFlorida International Univ College of Law Working Paper Series,  2007... In this respect, the genocide in Sudan and eastern Chad resembles other genocides recognized ... more ... In this respect, the genocide in Sudan and eastern Chad resembles other genocides recognized by legal scholars, such as the decimation ... Several recent works, most notably by Herbert Hirsch of the International Association of Genocide Scholars, have argued for global military ...Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
President Obama's "Pivot" to Jobs: Lessons from Comparative Law and America's RivalsSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Genocide in Sudan: The Role of Oil Exploration and the Entitlement of the Victims to ReparationsSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
“Native Christians Massacred”: The Ottoman Genocide of the Assyrians during World War IGenocide Studies and Prevention,  2006Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
On the Existence of National Identity Before'Imagined Communities': The Example of the Assyrians of Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and PersiaSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Sorrowful Shores: Violence, Ethnicity, and the End of the Ottoman Empire, 1912–1923Journal of Genocide Research,  2010Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of Richard Hovannisian ed., The Armenian Genocide: Cultural and Ethical LegaciesJournal of Genocide Research,  2008Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Extremely Violent Societies: Mass Violence in the Twentieth-Century WorldJournal of Genocide Research,  2012Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023