 
 BBC News | ENTERTAINMENT | Baftas fuel Oscars race
low graphics version | feedback | help
 You are in: Entertainment 
Front Page 
World 
UK 
UK Politics 
Business 
Sci/Tech 
Health 
Education 
Entertainment 
Showbiz 
Music 
Film 
Arts 
TV and Radio 
New Media 
Reviews 
Talking Point 
In Depth 
AudioVideo 
Monday, 26 February, 2001, 15:05 GMT
Baftas fuel Oscars race
Bafta's best actor Jamie Bell
Gladiator, Billy Elliot and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon triumphed at the Bafta Film Awards in February, but as far as the Oscars are concerned the outcome is not yet in the bag, as BBC News Online's Rebecca Thomas reports. 

The British movie industry considers the Baftas Europe's equivalent to the Oscars as it is the only other truly international annual film awards event.

Its move this year to precede the Academy Awards has added weight to its importance, although most industry insiders would agree trying to steal a march on the Oscars is a vain cause. 
Gladiator: Likely to win best film Oscar

However, what the Baftas and other well-publicised anticipatory ceremonies -  such as the Golden Globes -  do is give a good indication of those films and stars most likely to triumph at the Oscars.

What they may also do is have a "drip, drip" effect on the opinion of the Academy members if they see the same films being praised again and again.
Roman glory 

One such film is undoubtedly Gladiator, starring Antipodean heart-throb Russell Crowe and directed by Britain's Ridley Scott.
Russell Crowe: May not be good enough to win best actor














The Roman epic revival emerged as the Baftas' big winner,  taking five awards including  the most coveted trophy for best film.

It's a pattern that has been repeated in the last few months in the UK and the US since the annual awards season begun.



Most significantly, however, Gladiator won the best film category at the Golden Globes in January. 

Elsewhere, the influencial New York Film Critics Circle voted Steven Soderbergh's
war-on-drugs epic Traffic best film.
Tom Hanks stands out for Cast Away














Their Los Angeles counterparts then picked Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon as their best film.


But it is the Golden Globes ceremony which is regarded as one of the more significant Oscars predictors. 

Statistically, the Globes' choice of best picture
has coincided with the Oscar winner 41 times
in the last 57 years. 
Leading Hanks 

As for the movie's star, Russell Crowe, and maker, Ridley Scott, victory as best actor and best director are far from sure.

For all his heroic posturing in Gladiator, Crowe did not earn the best actor title from Bafta, the Golden Globes or the New York or LA critics. 



Coming attractions







10 March - Directors Guild of America Awards







11 March - Screen Actors Guild Awards







25 March - Academy Awards





Now his fiercest competitor looks increasingly likely to be Tom Hanks for his solo performance in Cast Away.

Already a double Oscar-winner, Hanks won the Golden Globe for best actor.

While Bafta may have honoured British star Jamie Bell with the best actor title for  Billy Elliot, he has been left out of the Oscar nominations altogether.

Gladiator director Ridley Scott also looks unlikely to win the best director Oscar.
Tiger's chance


The fight scenes in Gladiator are magnificently choreographed but Ang Lee's in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon are arguably more imaginative and skilled.

They won him the Bafta in the direction category for the Chinese-language martial arts movie. They also earned him this year's Golden Globe.
Crouching Tiger: Most likely to win Ang Lee the best director Oscar

Generally, there has been all-round praise for the Taiwanese film-maker's ability to produce a foreign language  film with global appeal.

Also in strong contention for this Oscar, and garnering a lot of lesser US awards including the New York Film Critics,  is Steven Soderbergh.  

He has been Oscar-nominated twice for both legal drama  Erin Brockovich and drug war thriller Traffic - an achievement in itself.  

Of the two films, Erin Brockovich has been praised for Soderbergh's ability to produce a powerful performance from Julia Roberts - an actress most associated with romantic comedies. 
Julia Roberts winning all-round praise for Erin Brockovich

So much so, that Roberts - named best leading actress at the Globes and the Baftas - seems increasingly likely to win the Oscar too - beating Juliette Binoche for Chocolat and  Ellen Burstyn for Requiem for a Dream.

When the Directors Guild in Los Angeles hands out its best  director trophy on 10 March the recipient stands a high chance of winning the best director Oscar on 25 March. 

All may not be over for young Jamie Bell this gong season - he still has his US Screen Actors Guild best actor nomination to hang his hopes on for 11 March. 
Search BBC News Online
Advanced search options
BBC RADIO NEWS
BBC ONE TV NEWS
WORLD NEWS SUMMARY
BBC NEWS 24 BULLETIN
PROGRAMMES GUIDE
See also:
26 Feb 01 | Entertainment
Billy Elliot director 'delighted'
22 Jan 01 | Entertainment
Globes honour Gladiator
30 Jan 01 | Entertainment
Billy Elliot star up for Hollywood award
13 Feb 01 | Entertainment
Gladiator leads Oscar battle
13 Feb 01 | Entertainment
Oscar nominees in full
Internet links:
The OscarsAcademy of Motion Picture Arts and SciencesBaftaDirectors Guild of AmericaScreen Actors Guild Awards
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
Top Entertainment stories now:
Channel 4 boss warns of cuts
Record numbers watch Big Brother
Inquest opens into Entwistle's death
Hindi soap set to storm US
Gallagher attacks 'liar' Michael
Animal protesters jeer Almodovar
Egypt reclaims stolen antiquities 
Sex and the City creator marries dancer
Links to more Entertainment stories are at the foot of the page.
 E-mail this story to a friend
Links to more Entertainment stories
In This Section

Channel 4 boss warns of cuts

Record numbers watch Big Brother

Inquest opens into Entwistle's death

Hindi soap set to storm US

Gallagher attacks 'liar' Michael

Animal protesters jeer Almodovar

Egypt reclaims stolen antiquities 

Sex and the City creator marries dancer

Digital TV woes hit Pace profits

Poetry prize shortlist unveiled

Men in Black back on top

Star attacks 'racist' music industry

Knowles warns of music industry 'sharks'
^^ Back to top
News Front Page | World | UK | UK Politics | Business | Sci/Tech | Health | Education | Entertainment | Talking Point | In Depth  | AudioVideo 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To BBC Sport>> | To BBC Weather>>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------© MMIII | News Sources | Privacy