BBC NEWS | Business | Heathrow 'needs a third runway'
BBC News Updated every minute of every day
One-Minute World News
News Front Page
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Middle East
South Asia
UK
Business
Market Data
Economy
Companies
Health
Science & Environment
Technology
Entertainment
Also in the news
-----------------
Video and Audio
-----------------
Programmes
Have Your Say
In Pictures
Country Profiles
Special Reports
Related BBC sites
Sport
Weather
On This Day
Editors' Blog
BBC World Service
Page last updated at 14:03 GMT, Wednesday, 25 June 2008 15:03 UK
                E-mail this to a friend
            
 Printable version
            
Heathrow 'needs a third runway'
More than a third of Heathrow users are transfer passengers 
Britain's busiest airport, Heathrow, is "jam-packed" and needs a third runway to remain competitive globally, the head of its operator, BAA, has said.

In an aviation conference speech, Colin Matthews also rejected a call to cut the number of transfer passengers to lessen the load on the airport. 

A report from business group London First has called for improvements before Heathrow becomes bigger. 

But BAA's new chief executive said that this was "a false choice".

"We do need the new capacity at Heathrow today in order to maintain its role, the way London and the country connects to the rest of the world," Mr Matthews told BBC News ahead of his speech to industry professionals in London.  "If we don't have transfer traffic, we can't fulfil that role." 

A government decision on whether to go ahead with a third runway is expected later this year. 
                            FROM THE TODAY PROGRAMME
                        
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.  
More from Today programme

Environmentalists have always been strongly opposed to the idea, and the Conservative leader David Cameron recently questioned the need for a new runway. 

Campaigners opposed to the planned expansion say it would have a serious impact on hundreds of thousands of homes in the area. 
'Fundamental error'

More than a third of Heathrow's passengers are transfer passengers. Of the major European airports, only Frankfurt carries more transit passengers than Heathrow. 

And that number has been increasing. Last year, 23 million people landed at Heathrow before taking off for another destination, up from 19 million in 2000. 
Once an asset in attracting business to the capital, it [Heathrow] is at risk of becoming a liability
 
Baroness Jo Valentine, London First

Reducing transfer passenger numbers would be a "fundamental error", Mr Matthews said.

"Does anybody seriously think that if people living and working not just in London, but in the rest of the country, were forced to go to Charles de Gaulle airport or Schiphol airport to fly to the rest of the world, our economy will not suffer?" he argued. 

In contrast, the business lobby group London First said the priority should be improving the existing airport before a decision to expand was taken. 

In a report published on Wednesday, it suggested this could involve reducing the number of flights or using operational changes at Heathrow to release the pressure on the airport. 

"Heathrow has been turned from a silk purse to a sow's ear," Baroness Jo Valentine, London First's chief executive, said.

"Once an asset in attracting business to the capital, it is at risk of becoming a liability."
Break-up?

BAA is also facing a ruling from the Competition Commission relating to BAA's ownership of London's three biggest airports. 
Heathrow has not kept pace with competitors like Schiphol, BAA says

There is speculation that it will be forced to sell off one of its airports to improve competition between airport operators and improve choice for travellers in the south-east of England. 

However, Mr Matthews told the BBC that the inquiry was "focusing on the wrong issue". 

"The right issue is the provision of the right capacity at the right time," he said. 

"Changing the ownership structure could delay this country facing up to those difficult questions of putting in the right capacity at the right time," Mr Matthews said. 
Bookmark with:
Delicious
Digg
reddit
Facebook
StumbleUpon
What are these?
                E-mail this to a friend
            
 Printable version
            
Print Sponsor
HEATHROW EXPANSION
LATEST NEWS
Heathrow plans scrapped
Plans for a third runway at Heathrow are cancelled by the new government.
NEWS STORIES
Opponents win challenge
Heathrow expansion plan 'unfair'
Heathrow expansion 'boost to UK'
Heathrow expansion e-mails probed
Protesters plan runway 'fortress'
Actors stage third runway protest
BAA to buy 700 homes near runway
Go-ahead for new Heathrow runway
FEATURES AND ANALYSIS
Fight goes on
Opponents of the runway say their protest is not over
Residents consider the expansion 
Brown's political gamble
Can a bigger Heathrow be green?
Construction project explained
Q&A: A third runway
At-a-glance: Heathrow's rivals
BACKGROUND
Heathrow expansion in graphics
For and against expansion
T5 guide: Overview
HAVE YOUR SAY
Does Heathrow need third runway?
VIDEO AND AUDIO REPORTS
Objectors win runway challenge
Voices in support of the third runway...
...and those against expansion
McGowan against Heathrow expansion
                                        RELATED INTERNET LINKS
                                        
                                
                                                        BAA
                                                        
                                                
                                                        London First
                                                        
                                                
                                                The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites
                                        
TOP BUSINESS STORIES
Strong demand boosts Intel profit
Rio resumes Australia investment
Unemployment dips to 2.47 million
MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
Tourists flock to 'Jesus's tomb' in Kashmir
Most popular now, in detail 
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail 
SHARED
READ
WATCHED/LISTENED
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Indonesia's female 'devil wheel' riders
BBC News
BBC News
BBC News
Most popular now, in detail 



FEATURES, VIEWS, ANALYSIS

Ghost town




Has China's housing bubble burst?



The guerilla plant 




How the world's oldest clove tree defied an empire



Walking away




Why Royal Ballet principal Sergei Polunin quit



Most Popular NowMost Popular Now | 56,514 people are reading stories on the site right now.";
 
Skip to top
PRODUCTS & SERVICES
E-mail news
Mobiles
Widgets & Alerts
News feeds
Podcasts