Belgrade University Library - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
2Department of Scientific Information and education
Toggle Department of Scientific Information and education subsection
2.1Education
2.2Guides for scientific field – LibGuides
2.3Interlibrary loan
3Catalogs
Toggle Catalogs subsection
3.1Electronic catalog
3.2Card catalog
4Legacies of the University Library
5Gallery
6Literature
7See also
8References
9External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Belgrade University Library
18 languages
العربيةAzərbaycancaCatalàČeštinaDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolFrançaisBahasa IndonesiaLatinaМакедонскиNorsk bokmålPolskiРусскийСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиTürkçeУкраїнська
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Coordinates: 44°48′22.13″N 20°28′29.24″E﻿ / ﻿44.8061472°N 20.4747889°E﻿ / 44.8061472; 20.4747889
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Belgrade University LibraryУниверзитетска библиотека Светозар МарковићFaçade of the library44°48′22.13″N 20°28′29.24″E﻿ / ﻿44.8061472°N 20.4747889°E﻿ / 44.8061472; 20.4747889LocationBelgrade, SerbiaTypeAcademic libraryEstablished1844 (179 years ago) (1844)CollectionItems collectedBooks, journals, newspapers, magazines, maps, prints and manuscriptsSize1.5 million items (approx.)Access and usePopulation servedUniversity of Belgrade and worldwideMembersUniversity of Belgrade and other groups on applicationOther informationDirectorprof. dr Aleksandar JerkovWebsitewww.unilib.bg.ac.rs
The University Library Svetozar Marković   (Serbian: Универзитетска библиотека Светозар Марковић) is the main library in the University of Belgrade system, named after Svetozar Marković, a Serbian political activist in the 19th century. It is located on King Alexander Boulevard, close to the Faculty of Law and adjacent to the Faculties of Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Architecture.[1] Serves the educational and scientific needs of students, academics, and scientists. Library Day is 24 May, a day commemorating Slavic educators St. Cyril and Methodius.
At the founding of the library, the collection contained 57,254 publications consisting of monographs and serials. Today, the library contains roughly 1,700,000 publications.
The library holdings include seminal works from all scientific fields, a large collection of local and foreign encyclopedias, bibliographies, dictionaries, professional and scientific journals, university publications, textbooks, and a significant collection of doctoral dissertations. The library also includes a collection of rare objects where manuscripts, old printed books, old magazines and newspapers, archival collections, as well as a collection of maps, doctoral, master's and specialist works are housed. In particular in the library's manuscript collection, there are several invaluable Cyrillic and oriental books.
History[edit]
Old manuscripts
The University Library, one of the largest research libraries in the Balkans serving the educational and research needs of its academic population, originates from the library of the Lyceum of the Principality of Serbia. Established in 1838, the Lyceum was considered the best school in Serbia at the time and had a library that was used by its professors and students as well as by students of the Belgrade Higher School. Its funds were made up of gifts from local and foreign donors, and a sample copy of the Principality of Serbia. According to the provisions for establishing the Lyceum, the librarian had to be one of its teachers, the first of which was Dr. Janko Šafarik (1814–1876), philologist and professor of history. The Library in 1850 had 927 volumes.
Belgrade Lyceum of the Principality of Serbia was converted into the Belgrade Higher School by the law of 24 September 1863. The school's library kept only professional publications, while other publications were handed over to the National Library. When in 1905 the Belgrade Higher School became the University library, the library was disbanded. The funds, according to scientific fields, were divided by the appropriate faculty seminars. The most valuable part of the collection went to the library of Serbian seminars. Soon it was realized that the university required a general scientific library, but the outbreak of World War I delayed its establishment. Part of this fund was received after establishing the University Library.
Art center in the Library
After the war, because of the great suffering of Serbian libraries, from abroad books began to arrive in large numbers to the address of the University Library, although she was only established until January 1921. Since the proposal for a decision of the Faculty of Philosophy, adopted by the University Senate, came from prof. Pavle Popović and he was appointed head of the Commission for the establishment of the University Library. Shortly thereafter, in May 1921, prof. Uros Džonić was appointed trustee of the University Library, who was temporarily given an office at the Faculty of Philosophy.
On the initiative of Serbian delegates in Washington, Dr. Slavko Grujić, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, who had already built a series of libraries in the world, has agreed to approve $100,000 as a gift to the Serbian government to build and equip a library in Belgrade. After World War I, Belgrade was one of three "front-line" cities, badly damaged in the war, which were given a Carnegie Library; the other two were Reims in France (which received a city library) and Leuven in Belgium (which received a university library). Belgrade's university library is the only Carnegie library in Central and Eastern Europe.[2]  Professor Slobodan Jovanović, former Rector of the University, managed personal commitment to the material means increase by government loans, in order to build a larger library, to meet the needs of the University. The city of Belgrade donated land, and the project was done by university professors, architects Dragutin Đordjević and Nikola Nestorović. So was built the first and then the only building in Serbia purpose-built as a library.
The library in a new building was officially opened on St. Cyril and Methodius, 24 May 1926. Professor Uroš Džonić remained at the position of the Administrator to the beginning of the Second World War. In this work, Džonić was assisted by a committee whose president was prof. Dr. Pavle Popović. The main task of this institution was that "as an independent university institution helps cultivate the science and in the capacity of research libraries serve not only students and faculty of Belgrade University, but also to all those involved in science." During World War II, under German occupation, the library did not work with the audience, and part of the building was occupied by the German army. Through the efforts of the staff of the library, its collections are still preserved. After liberation, the trustee is set to be Milica Prodanović, former librarian of the University Library. To celebrate the centenary of the birth of Svetozar Marković in 1946, this institution received its present name of the University Library "Svetozar Marković".
Hall of the library
In the period after the Second World War began the application of modern methods in the organization and processing of funds. A public professional directory was formed, in collaboration with the National Library of Serbia made a rule book for cataloging by the Association of Librarians of Serbia, which marked the beginning of equalization processing of library materials in the library of Serbia. Contacts were established with university and national libraries in the country and abroad. It also embarked on an aggressive work-sharing and interlibrary loan publications. A service for information was formed and cooperation with the universities, seminaries, institutes and other libraries of the University of Belgrade was expanded.
Department of Scientific Information and education[edit]
Department for Scientific Information was transformed in 2008 into the Department of scientific information and education. This section traces the development of the system of scientific information and communication, browsing databases from all scientific fields. The main activity of the department is information literacy, particularly undergraduate and graduate students, preparing materials for different types of education tailored to specific user groups, work on continuous professional development, professional organization of librarians of university libraries in Serbia, academic libraries as well as library research institutes and institutions. The Department prepares informants, guides and other informational materials about the library, preparing informational materials for the library website; engaged in the research and analysis within the field of information science, in accordance with the requirements and needs of universities and other users; collaborating on the development of library and information systems and scientific and technological information on universities in Serbia and in the system of coordinated procurement publications in print and electronic form; developing international cooperation.
Reading Room
The Library has developed an educational program that organizes and implements department for scientific information and education, and library specialists from other departments. As a parent institution organizes special workshops for librarians, faculty, and research institutions. Particular attention is paid to the education of young researchers at master's and doctoral studies. Education is organized in the library, as well as abroad, at universities and institutes, members of the University of Belgrade, but also in universities and research institutions throughout Serbia. Thanks to this, the number of downloaded articles from electronic services available through CoBSON-a (Serbian Library Consortium for Coordinated Acquisition) each year is increasing, and the number of examined and partially downloaded e-books. Educational programs are varied and adapted to the learners.
The library organizes lectures by prominent international scholars and professionals dedicated to the scientific community of Serbia and librarians academic library network. Organized by the Library, in collaboration with other institutions of the University of Belgrade, has been held for more than 20 of these lectures via video link or live, with speakers from the EU, the US and the region.
Education[edit]
Department of Scientific Information and education by 2002 trained individual users, but has since started an organized training users in the form of group training such as presentations, lectures, interactive workshops and so on. The first group training were within the TEMPUS project, the target population consisted of academic librarians in the organization of the Community of Libraries of the University of Serbia. Within the Community over the years have been organized various lectures and workshops on the themes established by the interest and needs of the user, and from 2014 to maintain accredited course "Information Literacy in Libraries: commercial and non-commercial electronic information sources," in accordance with the Regulations of the Ministry of culture and Information of the Republic of Serbia that contribute to the evaluation of the librarian, and thus the improvement of the profession. The establishment CoBSON one of the most important activities of the department were numerous presentations and lectures are held at most colleges and institutes of the University of Belgrade as well as institutions throughout the country.
Most of the presentations and lectures are available on the website of the University Library.
Guides for scientific field – LibGuides[edit]
LibGuides is a type of multimedia, interactive web guide to all scientific fields. What was formerly called the reference links are in a much clearer, more organized, meaningful and attractive way to achieve this library guides.
It is a web service that enables authorized users, librarians, without prior knowledge of web design to successfully and easily create, organize and update Web pages. The main objective of this is to provide in one place access to reliable electronic sources – commercial and those in open access. For each scientific discipline, in addition to texts, images, video recordings, are available and useful links to associations, conferences and other current information. LibGuides uses about 50,000 librarians in over 3,700 libraries worldwide. Created about 300,000 guides. Also, this guide allows users to download already existing guides from all over the community and work together more librarians in making guides.
Interlibrary loan[edit]
An example of a rare book from library collection
The tendency in the development of modern librarianship is that the prospective user of a library in the country, at the same time become a user of all public libraries in the world. Thanks to interlibrary loan, which inevitably must follow the latest trends of the modern information society that relies increasingly on electronic forms of communication, greatly shortens the time required to obtain accurate and adequate information, bringing a sense of physical distance and the presence of the sources of information and users.
The purpose of local interlibrary loan identified primarily in meeting the demands and needs of the user – library, both for information and for their sources in different fields of science, culture and art. In addition, it is necessary to understand the needs and structure of the user to be in line with the dynamics of providing information, which again must be the result of more efficient activities of the department that deals with interlibrary loans. Changes in the expectations, requirements and user type affected the interlibrary loan in the University Library "Svetozar Marković", which represents the connection between classical or physical and digital lending, reflecting both the dual nature of the modern library.
Catalogs[edit]
Electronic catalog[edit]
Electronic catalog
The University Library "Svetozar Marković" in Belgrade can be searched by publication of an electronic catalog (OPAC).OPAS is an acronym of English words Online Public Access Catalog. OPAC at the library is used since 1989 along with card catalogs. Since 1998 card catalog is no longer updated, but new data is entered only in the electronic catalog. The loan was automated. It is available 24 hours a day via the Internet.
There are three types of search an electronic catalog: basic, intermediate and advanced.
Card catalog[edit]
Author catalog of books from the fund of the University Library "Svetozar Marković" is divided into:
Alphabetical catalog of books from the fund of the University Library "Svetozar Marković" until 1963
Alphabetical catalog of books from the fund of the University Library "Svetozar Marković" from 1963 to 1998 (Cyrillic and Latin editions)
Cyrillian catalog of books from the fund of the University Library "Svetozar Marković" until 1963
Professional catalog of books divided by areas of expertise from the fund of the University Library "Svetozar Marković"
Catalog doctoral dissertation is divided by areas of expertise from the fund of the University Library "Svetozar Marković"
Special catalogs are:
Central catalog of books Belgrade University – since 1930
Alphabetical and chronological catalog of old and rare books
Library catalog of House of Vojislav Jovanović Marambo
Catalogue illustrations in old books and periodicals
Catalog archives and pseudonyms
Legacies of the University Library[edit]
Stationery of Isidora Sekulić
The University Library in its funds has over 30 separate libraries (legacies), which are stored as separate entities. They are very different in size and importance, but they are a great value, both in terms of content, as well as testimony about the characters to whom they belonged.
Among these, the libraries that have a special value are: Library of Joca Vujić, one of the richest libraries of the Serbian national and cultural history and literature, which contains mostly books from the 18th and 19th centuries, as well as very valuable manuscripts, documents and letters. Donated in 1932. Library of Gideon Dunđerski is in fact a library of famous Serbian collector of old books, bibliophile, Petar Stojadinovic from Novi Sad. These are mostly from the history and literature of the Serbian people. The library is significant to the study of Serbian national and cultural history. Donated in 1929. Library of Miroslav Premru obtained from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1927. Contains old and rare books, sources for the history and literature of the Renaissance and the Reformation. Library of Dimitrije Mirtinović, who lived and died in London, contains literature in philosophy, ethnology, anthropology, and Oriental art. The library was bequeathed to the University Library in 1956 and received Isidora Sekulić Library that contains books on literature and literary criticism, as well as manuscripts. The legacy consists of paintings, furniture and personal belongings. Memorial room is located in the reading room of the Department of rarities.
The full list of the legacies is:[3]
The Library of Petar Budmani
The Library of dr Svetozar Marković
The Library of Miroslav Premru
The Library of Oto Karmin
The Library of Hajnrik Kristensen
The Library of Gedeon Dunđerski
The Library of Luka Ćelović
The Library of Božidar Karađorđević
Carnegie's Library
The Library of Dimitrije Ruvarac
The Library of Joca Vujić
The Library of Slobodan J. Jovanović
The Library of Branimir Ćosić
The Library of Jovan Aleksijević
The Library of Živojin Simić
The Library of Stojan Novaković
The Library of Aleksandar Stojanović
The Library of Manojlo Nikolić
The Library of Rudolf Sardelić
The Library of Dimitrije Mitrinović
The Library of Isidora Sekulić
The Library of Aleksandar Belić
The Library of Vojislav Jovanović – Marambo
The Library of Momčilo Milošević
The Library of Mihajlo Pupin
The Library of Radoslav Perović
The Library of Vojin Milić
The Library of Miroljub Todorović – the legacy of signalism
Gallery[edit]
Former look of the Library
Reading room
Card catalogue section
A Qur’an manuscript
Old map of Belgrade
Memorial room of Isidora Sekulić
Literature[edit]
Dr Stela Filipi-Matutinović :„Научне информације у Србији“ 
Dr Radosav Marković : "Универзитетска библиотека у Београду (1921–1945)", (1968), Institute for Textbooks of Socialist Republic of Serbia, Belgrade
A Guide to the "Svetozar Marković" Univerzitety Library, (2001), Univerzitety Library "Svetozar Marković", Belgrade
Uros Džonić : Изградња Универзитетске библиотеке у Београду : 1919–1925 : дневници Уроша Џонића, (2011), Универзитетска библиотека "Светозар Марковић", Belgrade
Website of the University Library "Svetozar Marković", Belgrade, Retrieved 7 November 2014.
University Library "Svetozar Marković" – Treasury of knowledge, Retrieved 7 November 2014.
University Library "Svetozar Marković" – Education Retrieved 7 November 2014.
University Library "Svetozar Marković" – LibGuides – Guides of scientific fields Retrieved 7 November 2014.
Aleksandra Pavlović, Antonić Sanja, Šujica Vesna, Krinulović Oja, Kavaja-Stanišić Dejana: Department for Scientific Information  of University Library "Svetozar Marković" in Belgrade – respond to customer demands, (2008), Librarian, 50 (3/4), 111- 122nd
Aleksandra Popovic, Antonić Sanja, Stolić Dragana: Education, digital repositories and open access, (2012), Digitization of Cultural and Scientific Heritage, University Repositories and Distance Learning: a thematic anthology in four books. Vol. 2, ctr. 323–334
Basic search – guide
Electoral search – guide
See also[edit]
Serbia portal
Andrew Carnegie
Carnegie library
List of Carnegie libraries in Europe
References[edit]
^ "University of Belgrade". Archived from the original on 12 October 2009. Retrieved 18 June 2009.
^ Annual Report / Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. BiblioLife. p. 37. ISBN 9781110041473. Retrieved 29 May 2015.
^ Filipović, Danica (4 July 2008). "Посебне библиотеке (легати) у Универзитетској библиотеци "Светозар Марковић" у Београду". www.rastko.rs (in Serbian). Project Rastko. Archived from the original on 23 January 2013. Retrieved 13 November 2020.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to University Library Svetozar Marković.
Belgrade University Library website
Republic Institute for Protection of Cultural Monuments – Belgrade
List of Monuments
vte List of educational institutions in BelgradeUniversities
University of Belgrade
University of Arts in Belgrade
University of Defence
Megatrend University
Singidunum University
Union University
Other
Belgrade University Library
Ilija M. Kolarac Endowment
 Category
 Commons
vteUniversity of BelgradeFaculties
Faculty of Architecture
Faculty of Economics
School of Electrical Engineering
Faculty of Law
Faculty of Medicine
Faculty of Organizational Sciences
Faculty of Orthodox Theology
Faculty of Philology
Faculty of Philosophy
Faculty of Political Sciences
Faculty of Security Studies
Facilities
Belgrade University Library
Captain Miša's Mansion
Centre for Ancient Epigraphy and Numismatics
Institute of Mental Health
Jevremovac Botanical Garden
Mihajlo Pupin Institute
Radmilovac Experimental Farm
Subotica Law School
Vinča Nuclear Institute
University Hospital Center Dr Dragiša Mišović
Publications
Annals of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade
Serbian Astronomical Journal
Journal of Mining and Metallurgy
Academic life
Belgrade Competition in Oratory
Fulbright Scholars from Belgrade Faculty of Law
vteLists of Carnegie libraries
Canada
United States
Africa
Caribbean
Europe
Oceania
See also: Public library
Authority control International
ISNI
VIAF
National
France
BnF data
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
People
ISIL
RS-2
Other
IdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Belgrade_University_Library&oldid=1106335712"
Categories: Academic librariesLibraries in BelgradeUniversity of BelgradeEducation in BelgradeCarnegie libraries in SerbiaBuildings and structures in BelgradeLibrary buildings completed in 1926Libraries in SerbiaLibraries established in 1844Palilula, BelgradeHidden categories: CS1 Serbian-language sources (sr)Use dmy dates from November 2014Articles containing Serbian-language textInfobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on WikidataCoordinates on WikidataCommons category link is on WikidataArticles with ISNI identifiersArticles with VIAF identifiersArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with ISIL identifiersArticles with SUDOC identifiersPages using the Kartographer extension
 This page was last edited on 24 August 2022, at 04:02 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width