Minister Ahmet Arslan: Wikipedia is open for improvement by anyone around the world, and should be open for editors in Turkey – Wikimedia Foundation
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
News
Minister Ahmet Arslan: Wikipedia is open for improvement by anyone around the world, and should be open for editors in Turkey
By Eileen Hershenov•22 May 2018 
 
 The Wikimedia Foundation is deeply concerned about recent statements attributed to the Turkish Minister of Transport, Maritime, and Communications Ahmet Arslan from Friday, the 18th of May, regarding the block of Wikipedia in Turkey. The Minister’s comments seriously misrepresent Wikipedia’s open editing model and efforts undertaken by the Wikimedia Foundation to lift the block.
To address these concerns, the Wikimedia Foundation has issued the following letter to Minister Arslan. We are publishing this letter openly here to further address any public confusion surrounding the Minister’s comments.
For a year, the people of Turkey have not been able to learn from, share, or contribute knowledge on Wikipedia. Without participation from Turkey, the world suffers. We remain committed to restoring access to Wikipedia in full for the people of Turkey. #WeMissTurkey
• • •
Dear Minister Arslan:
I am the General Counsel for the Wikimedia Foundation, the not-for-profit organization that hosts Wikipedia, whose more than 46 million articles make it the largest, collaboratively-built online repository of free knowledge in the world. I read your recent statements on the access ban of Wikipedia in Turkey, which did not include critical information about the current situation. Unfortunately, the statements did not include any information about the many steps the Wikimedia community of volunteer editors have already taken to improve the articles that are the basis for the block. Nor do they include information about our compliance with Turkish law and many meetings with Turkish officials. To that end, I want to take this opportunity to provide crucial information concerning many and significant efforts to address the block, and to emphasize our interest in understanding how to return access to Wikipedia for people in Turkey.
Before getting into more detail, here are a few very important points.
First, the Turkish block is the most expansive government ban ever imposed on Wikipedia, and includes Wikipedias across nearly 300 languages. The court order imposing the ban is based on two articles in English Wikipedia which the court said damaged the reputation and prestige of the Republic of Turkey. While we respectfully disagreed with the court’s decision as it applied to the articles at the time the block was imposed, we also wish to point out that those articles have been changed substantially by Wikipedia volunteer editors since the block was imposed and urge you to take that into consideration.
Second, it is important to note that, unlike other top internet platforms, the Wikimedia Foundation does not own or control the content of the sites it hosts, including Wikipedia. With respect to the editing process, the Foundation cannot remove or alter content. The originating idea that has led to the unique value of Wikipedia is that it is a collaboration of hundreds of thousands of people across the globe. Together they make decisions about what information to include in Wikipedia and how that information is presented. The editing process proceeds according to policies developed and overseen by these independent volunteer editors. Wikipedia’s policies require reliable sources to verify information included in Wikipedia, and neutrality, especially when covering controversies in which there are differing views. This is an ongoing process and means that Wikipedia articles are under constant improvement. It is a process that benefits from more editors and differing perspectives, which is one of the reasons why ending the block in Turkey is so important.
This manner of creating and improving content remains to this day the most powerful and unique contribution of Wikipedia to the internet. When more people participate on Wikipedia, the more neutral, reliable, and accurate its articles become. As you may know from the BTK, the Wikimedia Foundation and independent Wikipedia volunteer editors offered to provide open, public training on Wikipedia in Turkey once the block is lifted, as we have done in other countries, with the goal of increasing the number of editors and perspectives on Wikipedia.
Third, I also want to emphasize that Wikipedia has complied with Turkish law; it has not sought to circumvent the court ruling. The Foundation, for its part, has pursued its legal remedies and will continue to do so.
Significantly, and as stated above, independent, volunteer Wikipedia editors have made extensive changes to the articles upon which the court order is based. The Wikipedia articles today are significantly different than the versions that were reviewed by the court more than one year ago when it issued its 2017 decision.
The articles have been improved, in a manner consistent with Wikipedia’s own standards: The articles now include more statements from multiple reliable sources from both within and outside Turkey, cover different sides of controversies, and use more neutral language. These changes also address major concerns expressed by the government, including that the Wikipedia articles provide comprehensive summaries that do not only reflect one point of view.
The articles are and have remained open for editing by anyone around the world in accordance with Wikipedia’s editorial policies of neutrality and reliance on reliable sources. Indeed, the only barrier to Turkish people’s ability to improve Wikipedia further is the fact that the access ban has not yet been lifted.
We respectfully request that the government join us in asking the court to lift the ban so that Wikipedia can return to serving as a valuable, free educational resource on a wide range of topics, including science, engineering, art, and culture. We would like to see the Turkish people able to contribute to the global conversation, including Turkish topics, on Wikipedia. As we have repeatedly noted, we are all made poorer for the absence of contributions by the Turkish people.
In any event, we would like to keep open communication with you so that we can discuss these matters further if that is helpful.
Eileen B. Hershenov
General Counsel
Wikimedia Foundation
Read more
#WeMissTurkey,Censorship,Governments,Turkey,Wikipedia,Wikipedia block,block 
Related
Read further in the pursuit of knowledge
 
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI
Blog Post Equity Technology Wikipedia 
If there was a generative artificial intelligence system that could, on its own, write all the information contained in Wikipedia, would it be the same as Wikipedia today?
12 July 2023
By Selena Deckelmann 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Foundation urges Pakistan Telecommunications Authority to restore access to Wikipedia in Pakistan
Advocacy Legal Wikipedia 
On Friday, February 3, 2023, Pakistan’s Telecommunications Authority blocked Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects. The Wikimedia Foundation calls on Pakistan to restore access to Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects in the country immediately.
3 February 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
New Wikipedia editor features make it easy for everyone to contribute
Interview Technology Wikipedia 
New features on Wikipedia are making it easy for everyone to edit Wikipedia, especially those contributing to the site for the first time. Every time you read a Wikipedia article, you are reading the work of a volunteer contributor.  Nearly 300,000 people from around the world edit Wikipedia articles each month — they start new….
6 December 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
Photo credits
 
Ephesus Celsus Library Façade
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Benh
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
AI Blog header 02
Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia - Pakistan - PR - 2-3-23
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Rana Usman Shakoor
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
W for Wikipedia-Wikipedia buttons
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Subhashish Panigrahi
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.