Phonetic Transcription Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Phonetic Transcription14,268 FollowersRecent papers in Phonetic TranscriptionTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleIPA（国際音声記号）入門Save to LibraryDownloadby Takehiko Makino•  3  Phonetics, Phonetic Transcription, International Phonetic AlphabetInternational Phonetic Alphabet Chart for Vietnamese Speakers (1st Draft)This is one-page chart (A3) shows examples in British English received pronunciation. Blanks in the Vietnamese examples indicate sounds that don't exist in the Vietnamese language and therefore challenging for native Vietnamese speakers... moreThis is one-page chart (A3) shows examples in British English received pronunciation. Blanks in the Vietnamese examples indicate sounds that don't exist in the Vietnamese language and therefore challenging for native Vietnamese speakers to hear and produce.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jaime Alfredo Cabrera•  4  Phonetics, English Phonetics and Phonology, Phonetic Transcription, ENGLISH PHONETICS AND PRONUNCIATIONAnalysis of phonetic transcriptions for Danish automatic speech recognitionAutomatic speech recognition (ASR) relies on three resources: audio, orthographic transcriptions and a pronunciation dictionary. The dictionary or lexicon maps orthographic words to sequences of phones or phonemes that represent the... moreAutomatic speech recognition (ASR) relies on three resources: audio, orthographic transcriptions and a pronunciation dictionary. The dictionary or lexicon maps orthographic words to sequences of phones or phonemes that represent the pronunciation of the corresponding word. The quality of a speech recognition system depends heavily on the dictionary and the transcriptions therein. This paper presents an analysis of phonetic/phonemic features that are salient for current Danish ASR systems.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas Søeborg Kirkedal•  3  Automatic Speech Recognition, Phonetics and Phonology, Phonetic TranscriptionSpelling to pronunciation correspondences: American English vowels and diphthongsThis is a resource that may come in handy in Practical English phonetics class, notably in transcription exercises.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marcin Lewandowski•  6  English Phonetics and Phonology, Standard English Pronunciation- British and American Accent, American English, Phonetic TranscriptionMarkus E., Rozhanskiy F. 2013. Folklore Texts as a Source of Linguistic Data: Evidence from Votic FolkloreЭта в некоторой степени провокационная статья направлена на развенчание мифа о том, что известные исследователи финно-угорских языков при помощи фонетической транскрипции аккуратно передавали особенности звучащей речи. В статье... moreЭта в некоторой степени провокационная статья направлена на развенчание мифа о том, что известные исследователи финно-угорских языков при помощи фонетической транскрипции аккуратно передавали особенности звучащей речи. В статье представлено небольшое исследование, сделанное на основе опубликованных текстов водских плачей. Примечательность этого материала состоит в том, что в нем содержатся плачи, записанные примерно в одно и то же время, на одну и ту же тематику от одного и того же носителя языка, но разными исследователями. Какие результаты получились, вы узнаете из этой небольшой статьи.This paper discusses the use of folklore collections for linguistic research in minor unwritten languages. In particular, we examine the case of the Votic language. As with many other minor languages, the earliest texts in Votic date from the middle of the 19th century, and mostly come from folklore materials. The focus of our research is the influence of a particular collector on the system of transcription. In this paper, we investigate variation in the spelling of forms, and show that there is an apparent correlation between different ways of transcribing the same forms and the individual researchers responsible for the transcription. It is clear that the written form of Votic folklore texts cannot be fully relied upon for the analysis of Votic phonetics and phonology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fedor  Rozhanskiy•  11  Finno-ugric, Baltic Finnic Languages, Finno-Ugric languages, Finnic Languages英語辞書の発音表記から最近のアメリカ発音を知るSave to LibraryDownloadby Takehiko Makino•  7  Phonetics, English Phonetics and Phonology, Standard English Pronunciation- British and American Accent, American EnglishThe Language of Adi  Granth   (Revised Edition- 2015) BY HARJEET SINGH GILLSave to LibraryDownloadby Harjeet Singh Gill•  17  Sikhism, Asian Studies, Philosophy, TheologyNa ponta da língua: exercícios de fonética do portuguêsSave to LibraryDownloadby João Veloso•  5  Acoustic Phonetics, Articulatory Phonetics, Descriptive Phonetics, Phonetic TranscriptionENGLISH PHONEMIC AND ALLOPHONIC HANDBOOK (revised to 2017)English Phonemic and Allophonic Handbook containing the phonemes and allophones of English arranged according to Sonority Hierarchy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tony Bittner-Collins and +1Gregory Lagos•  9  Phonology, Phonetics, English, Phonetic TranscriptionTürkiye Türkçesindeki Sesbirimlerin Dışsal ve İçsel Alt Sesbirimleri / The Extrinsic and Intrinsic Allophones of the Turkey Turkish PhonemesÖZET: Kaydedilmiş konuşma örneklerinin özel işaretler ve harfler kullanılarak yapılan çevriyazısı, fonetik, dilbilim, ağız araştırmaları, ikinci dil öğretimi, dil ve konuşma bozuklukları gibi alanlarda sık kullanılmaktadır. Ancak,... moreÖZET: Kaydedilmiş konuşma örneklerinin özel işaretler ve harfler kullanılarak yapılan çevriyazısı, fonetik, dilbilim, ağız araştırmaları, ikinci dil öğretimi, dil ve konuşma bozuklukları gibi alanlarda sık kullanılmaktadır. Ancak, çevriyazının hangi yöntemle yapılacağı ve derinliğinin ne olacağı sadece Türkçe için değil bütün diğer diller için de sorun olagelmiştir. Çevriyazının derinliği genellikle amaca göre belirlenmekledir. Bu işlem sırasında gereksiz detaylara girmek araştırmacıya aşırı yük getirmekte, üzerinde durulması gereken noktaların göz ardı edilmesi ise veri kaybına ve yanlış yorumlamalara neden olmaktadır. Bu çalışmanın amacı, çevriyazının belirli kurallara göre şekillendiği ve derinliğinin çalışma boyunca sabit tutulduğu bir çevriyazı modeli geliştirmektir.Bu makalede, önce çalışmanın ilham kaynağını oluşturan Glosematik ve Sinirbilişsel Dilbilim kuramlarıyla ilgili kısa bilgi verilecek, daha sonra dışsal ve içsel alt sesbirim kavramları açıklanacak, Türkiye Türkçesindeki sesbirimlerden ve alt sesbirimlerinden bahsedildikten sonra Katmanlı Çevriyazı Modeli sunulacaktır.Katmanlı Çevriyazı Modelinde, çevriyazı derinliği yukarıdan aşağıya (soyuttan somuta) doğru Biçimbirimsel, Sesbirimsel, Dışsal Alt Sesbirimsel ve İçsel Alt Sesbirimsel şeklinde dört katmana ayrılmaktadır. Biçimbirimsel Katman çevriyazıda kullanılmamaktadır, Sesbirimsel Katmana geçişte önemi olan morfofonolojik işlemleri göstermek için burada yer verilmiştir. Türkçe için Sesbirimsel Katmanla ortografik gösterim aynı kabul edilebilir. Eğer kişisel farklılıkların incelenmesi planlanmıyorsa çevriyazı düzeyi olarak Dışsal Alt Sesbirimsel Katman kullanılmalıdır. Konuşma bozuklukları gibi kişisel farklılıkların önemli olduğu durumlarda ise çevriyazı düzeyi olarak İçsel Alt Sesbirimsel Katmanın kullanılması gerekmektedir.ABSTRACT: Transcription of spoken samples is frequently used in language studies such as dialect researches and speech-language disorders. However, the method and depth of the transcription have always been a problem in almost every language. The transcription level is determined by the purpose of the study. During a transcription process, entering unnecessary details introduces a large amount of work for the researcher, or a lack of detail will lead to data loss and misinterpretation. The aim of this study is to develop a transcription model to keep the transcription depth fixed all through based on certain rules.In this article, some brief information is first presented on the theories of Glossematics and Neurocognitive Linguistics. Then, the concepts of extrinsic and intrinsic allophones and phonemes and their allophones in Turkey Turkish are explained, and finally, the Stratificational Transcription Model is presented.In the Stratificational Transcription Model, the transcription is divided into four strata from up to down in terms of depth, as Morphemic, Phonemic, Extrinsic Allophonic and Intrinsic Allophonic. If no individual differences are planned to be examined, the Extrinsic Allophonic Stratum should be used as the transcription level. The Intrinsic Allophonic Stratum should be used, where individual differences are important, such as in speech disorders.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mehmet Akif KILIC•  24  Languages and Linguistics, Phonology, Phonetics, DialectologyTranskrypcja języka arabskiego [Arabic Transcription System]Save to LibraryDownloadby Maciej Klimiuk•  4  Arabic Language and Linguistics, Arabic, Phonetic Transcription, Transliterating ArabicMiędzynarodowy alfabet fonetyczny (IPA) w transkrypcji fonetycznej języka polskiegoThe main goal of this paper is not only to present the current official version of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), a system of phonetic notation created and developed by the International Phonetic Association that is intended... moreThe main goal of this paper is not only to present the current official version of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), a system of phonetic notation created and developed by the International Phonetic Association that is intended to be a standardized representation of all sounds that occur in natural languages, but also to propose the standardized IPA for Polish. The paper postulates the need for unification and internationalization of metalanguage in Polish linguistic studies, especially in the field of phonetic research, points out advantages of the IPA, and briefly describes previous attempts to transcribe Polish sounds using this phonetic notation. The main aim of the paper focuses on the proposal of the representation of Polish vocals and consonants. Alternate interpretations have been discussed and new solutions have been developed. Special attention has been devoted to possible representations of Polish nasal diphthongs, palatalized and so-called post-palatal sounds, and alveolar fricatives that have been analyzed as retroflex consonants. As the result a complete inventory of Polish sounds represented in the IPA has been presented.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marcin Wągiel•  18  Languages, Languages and Linguistics, Phonetics, Slavic LanguagesК ПРОБЛЕМЕ ПЕРЕДАЧИ ЕДИНИЧНЫХ АНТРОПОНИМОВ В МЕЖЪЯЗЫКОВОЙ КОММУНИКАЦИИSave to LibraryDownloadby Stanislava Špačková•  6  Translation Studies, Russian Language, Proper Names, Phonetic TranscriptionTHE USE OF DRILLING METHOD IN TEACHING PHONETIC TRANSCRIPTION AND WORD STRESS OF PRONUNCIATION CLASSAbstract: This research gives an account of how to enhance the students' phonetic transcription and word stress mastery of pronunciation through drilling method. That was obviously proved that the fourth-semester students' mastery of... moreAbstract: This research gives an account of how to enhance the students' phonetic transcription and word stress mastery of pronunciation through drilling method. That was obviously proved that the fourth-semester students' mastery of pronunciation was unsatisfactory. They were often found mispronounce English words. Meanwhile, phonetic transcription and word stress are considered as the main pronunciation features as a basis for having a good pronunciation. Then, drilling method was used in this research since it is an essential part of classroom pronunciation work and is also possibly the time in the lesson when the students are more reliant on the teacher. Besides, drilling is also fundamental to help students remember new items. However, this study was a classroom action research, which consisted of two cycles and each of cycles consisted of four phases. The second cycle was done based on the reflection in the first cycle by revising some drawbacks. The participants of the research were the fourth-semester students of English language education study program of STKIP PGRI Trenggalek. The data collection methods of this research had been obtained from pronunciation test and observation. Then, the data of this research were analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively. The research findings proved that the implementation of drilling method effectively enhanced the students‘ progressive achievement from the preliminary study to the first and the second cycle and to finally meet the success criteria toward learning outcome stated in the syllabus.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yudi  Basuki•  6  Phonology, Classroom Action Research, Phonetics and Pronunciation, Pronunciation TeachingIzabela Beljić. 2013. Najčešći problemi u izgovoru i transkripciji imena iz španskog jezikaIzgovor stranih imena u drugom jeziku problem je aktuelan i danas, u vreme dominacije elektronskih medija i brze razmene informacija. Usled brojnih neusaglašenosti i proizvoljnosti, nedovoljne angažovanosti stručnjaka, te prevelikog... moreIzgovor stranih imena u drugom jeziku problem je aktuelan i danas, u vreme dominacije elektronskih medija i brze razmene informacija. Usled brojnih neusaglašenosti i proizvoljnosti, nedovoljne angažovanosti stručnjaka, te prevelikog oslanjanja na pravopisnu tradiciju u transkripciji imena iz španskog, oseća se potreba za revizijom, standardizacijom i doslednom primenom pravila transkripcije. U radu se kritički pristupa pravilima transkripcije koja su često zasnovana na grafiji ili sačinjena po analogiji s nepravilno usvojenim tradicionalnim oblicima. Predlaže se dosledna fonetska transkripcija kod koje bi se, uz minimalna prilagođavanja, glasovi iz jezika-izvora prenosili najbližim glasovima jezika-primaoca, a akcentovanje imena bilo usklađenije s izvornim akcentom. Ključne reči: izgovor, pravila transkripcije, pravopisna tradicija, standardizacija, jezik-izvor, jezik-primalac, izvorni akcenat.* * *La pronunciación de los nombres propios españoles todavía representa un gran problema para los serbiohablantes, a pesar de la alta compatibilidad de los sistemas fonológicos español y serbio. Los nombres españoles se pronuncian y se escriben inconsistentemente, y la presencia de muchas variantes de un mismo nombre es común. Debido a numerosas incoherencias, la arbitrariedad, la participación insuficiente de expertos en el tema y una dependencia fuerte de la tradición ortográfica en la transcripción de nombres extranjeros, son necesarias una profunda revisión, una estandarización y la aplicación consecuente de las normas de transcripción. Se analizan críticamente tanto las reglas de transcripción, a menudo hechas según la ortografía, y no según los principios fonéticos, como las transcripciones realizadas en analogía con las formas incorrectas tradicionales (a veces adaptadas a través de otro idioma, antes el alemán y el francés, hoy en día, el inglés). Además, se analiza la adaptación del acento original, también muy frecuente, y la anotación de apellidos españoles. Por lo tanto, se propone una transcripción fonética coherente, que sugiere que las voces del español sean transferidas al serbio con voces serbias más cercanas fonéticamente, con una adaptación mínima, que el acento esté más en armonía con el original y que normalmente se anoten los dos apellidos españoles, y no sólo el último.Palabras clave: pronunciación, reglas de transcripción, tradición ortográfica, estandarización, idioma de origen, idioma de destino, acento original.Save to LibraryDownloadby Izabela Beljić•  3  Phonetics, Phonetics and Pronunciation, Phonetic TranscriptionUsage patterns of an online allophonic transcriptorSave to LibraryDownloadby Kacper Łodzikowski•  6  TESOL, English Phonetics and Phonology, Computer Assisted Language Learning (CALL), Teacher Education in Teaching English to Speakers of Second/Foreign Languages (TESOL)Překlad a převod ruských, českých a anglických názvů firem v mezinárodní komunikaci Save to LibraryDownloadby Stanislava Špačková•  7  Translation Studies, Russian Language, Proper Names, ToponymyWhat is phonetic transcription and what can it tell us about speech production?Save to LibraryDownloadby Finka Heynemann•  4  Phonetics, Phonetics and Phonology, Phonetic Transcription, English phonologyFundamentals of English Phonetics and Phonology Ayo OsisanwoFundamentals of English Phonetics and Phonology has been written out of our sincere desire to help the learners of English (especially as second language) to understand better, the definition, formation, description, classification,... moreFundamentals of English Phonetics and Phonology has been written out of our sincere desire to help the learners of English (especially as second language) to understand better, the definition, formation, description, classification, transcription of not only English sounds or sounds of other languages across the world; but the other terms related to phonetics and phonology. Designed for students of Universities and Colleges of Education, especially students undergoing courses related to Phonetics and Phonology, it is hoped to give both the undergraduate and postgraduate students a basic introduction to the phonetics and phonology of English.  Apart from the expressive and comprehensive nature of the text, it has elaborate references of materials consulted, and theses that are also meant for further reading. It also has index for easy referencing. The lucidity of presentation in the text makes it a unique addition to the existing literatures on this aspect of language study.  The book is divided into nineteen chapters.  Each of the chapters covers different aspects to give a good foundation to the course – phonetics and phonology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ayo Osisanwo•  20  Phonology, Phonetics, Sociolinguistics, IntonationAuto Correct Database Entries developed by VerbatimITSave to LibraryDownloadby Alan  Kelly•  6  Dialects of English, Corpus Linguistics, Phraseology, Phonetic TranscriptionDoing phonetic transcription in a modern language degreeThe value of phonetic transcription is unquestionable for phoneticians, linguists and speech researchers in general. The purpose is to describe the use of phonetic transcription in an English Studies degree at the University of Murcia,... moreThe value of phonetic transcription is unquestionable for phoneticians,linguists and speech researchers in general. The purpose is to describe the use of phonetic transcription in an English Studies degree at the University of Murcia, Spain. Despite being a very specific context, its description may be relevant for a broader range of contexts since similar courses are taught in many modern language and linguistics programs across the world that focus on students’ L1 or language of study. Moreover, the discussion touches upon issues rarely discussed in the literature, which may apply to all contexts where transcription is taught and learned. An overview is provided of the goals of transcription work in that four-year degree as well as the students’ profile, content taught, materials and methodology used and assessment.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jose A. MOMPEAN•  4  English Pronunciation, Phonetic Transcription, Phonetics, Transcription Skills, Teaching English PronunciationIzabela Beljić. 2012. Afrikate u srpskom i španskom: u prilog transkripciji španske afrikate ’ch’ srpskom grafemom ’ć’Rad je posvećen afrikatama u srpskom i španskom jeziku, njihovim karakteristikama i prirodi, transkripciji kao postupku i transkripciji imena sa španskog jezika. Pažnja je posebno usmerena na špansku lamino-alveopalatalnu bezvučnu... moreRad je posvećen afrikatama u srpskom i španskom jeziku, njihovim karakteristikama i prirodi, transkripciji kao postupku i transkripciji imena sa španskog jezika. Pažnja je posebno usmerena na špansku lamino-alveopalatalnu bezvučnu afrikatu grafije ch, srpske bezvučne afrikate-lamino-alveopalatalnu ć i apiko-alveopalatalnu č-te na sličnosti i razlike među njima. Detaljno je analizirana artikulacija afrikata i akustički utisak koji se izgovorom ovih glasova proizvodi. Dat je kritički osvrt na pravila i dosadašnju praksu u transkripciji ove foneme na srpski i nedoslednost u njenom prenošenju. Cilj istraživanja je uvođenje reda u oblast transkripcije imena iz španskog jezika i davanje predloga za transkripciju španske afrikate grafije ch. Ključne reči: afrikate, lamino-alveopalatalna afrikata, apiko-alveopalatalna afrikata, transkripcija imena, izvorni izgovor, jezik-izvor, jezik-primalac.* * *Common and inconsistent transcription of Spanish phoneme ch with Serbian apical alveolo-palatal affricate č, instead of using the more appropriate laminal alveolo-palatal affricate ć, led to having co-existing variants of the same Spanish proper name in Serbian. The paper intents to give a critical review of current policies and practice in Spanish names transcription, as well as to find more desirable transcription patterns, based on acoustic impression produced in the language of origin, i.e. relative acoustic similarity between the speech sounds in two languages. The aim is to discuss inadequate forms in transcription, and to suggest using corresponding phoneme in the receiving language, applying theory-based approach.Detailed analysis of Serbian and Spanish affricates is made, examining their characteristics, nature, and acoustic properties. Particular attention is focused on similarities between Spanish laminal alveolo-palatal affricate ch and Serbian laminal alveolo-palatal affricate ć, and the differences regarding Serbian apical alveolo-palatal affricate č.The main intention is to help introduce uniformity and bring order into the area of Spanish onomastics used in the Serbian language, and to make a proposal for future transcriptions of Spanish laminal alveolo-palatal affricate ch with Serbian laminal alveolo-palatal affricate ć.Key words: affricates, lamino-alveopalatal affricate, apico-alveopalatal affricate, name transcription, original pronunciation, source language, target language.Save to LibraryDownloadby Izabela Beljić•  3  Phonetics, Phonetics and Pronunciation, Phonetic TranscriptionEINFÜHRUNG IN DIE PHONETIK UND PHONOLOGIE DES DEUTSCHENDas vorliegende Lehrwerk richtet sich vor allem an Germanistikstudierende, aber auch an Studierende anderer Fachrichtungen, die sich für Phonetik und Phonologie, das Lautsystem des Deutschen, die Theorie und Praxis der deutschen... moreDas vorliegende Lehrwerk richtet sich vor allem an Germanistikstudierende, aber auch anStudierende anderer Fachrichtungen, die sich für Phonetik und Phonologie, dasLautsystem des Deutschen, die Theorie und Praxis der deutschen Standardaussprache, dieUnterschiede zwischen den phonetischen Systemen des Deutschen und des Litauischeninteressieren. Es umfasst sieben Kapitel, in denen Phonetik als wissenschaftliche Disziplin,die phonetische Transkription (nach IPA), die Sprachproduktion, Phonologie alswissenschaftliche Disziplin, das System der deutschen Vokale, das System der deutschenKonsonanten und Prosodie (der Akzent und die Intonation des Deutschen) behandeltwerden. Das Lehrwerk regt zum aktiven Lernen an: Der theoretische Stoff und dieAufgaben werden so angeboten, dass die Studierenden zum systematischen Aufbauen derphonetischen Kompetenz die Hauptregeln selbst entdecken und die Theorie in der Praxisanwenden, indem sie auf die einschlägige Literatur und die Online-Quellen zurückgreifen.Save to LibraryDownloadby Diana  Šileikaitė-Kaishauri•  9  Phonetics and Pronunciation, Phonetics and Phonology, Deutsch als Fremdsprache, FonetikaEl código de transcripción de Gail Jefferson: adaptación para su uso en ciencias sociales[Nota: para una tabla-resumen de la adaptación del código, ver https://www.academia.edu/14836268/Resumen_de_la_adaptaci%C3%B3n_del_c%C3%B3digo_de_transcripci%C3%B3n_de_Gail_Jefferson] En este trabajo propongo una adaptación del código... more[Nota: para una tabla-resumen de la adaptación del código, ver https://www.academia.edu/14836268/Resumen_de_la_adaptaci%C3%B3n_del_c%C3%B3digo_de_transcripci%C3%B3n_de_Gail_Jefferson]En este trabajo propongo una adaptación del código de transcripción de Gail Jefferson con el fin de promover su uso en investigaciones no discursivas en ciencias sociales. Sostengo que, al contrario de lo que suele considerarse, la transcripción no es una tarea simple e intrascendente: supone la toma de decisiones complejas y, en tanto parte de un proceso de investigación dado, contribuye a construir los resultados. De este modo, transcribir es una tarea política tan digna de atención como cualquier otra. Mi propuesta consiste en: i) reducir la cantidad de símbolos originales, ii) simplificar su acceso en teclados en castellano, iii) anular aquéllos, como puntos y comas, que puedan dificultar la comprensión de un/a lector/a no iniciado/a y, finalmente, iv) anular símbolos a priori poco útiles en investigaciones no discursivas.On this paper I propose an adaptation of Gail Jefferson’s transcription code in order to promote its use in social sciences non-discursive research. I argue that, contrary to what is commonly believed, transcription is not a simple and irrelevant task: it involves complex decisions and, as part of a given research process, it helps construct the results. Hence, transcribing is a political task worthy of as much attention as any other. With this goal in mind, I propose i) reduce the quantity of symbols, ii) simplify its access on keyboards in Spanish, iii) exclude symbols, such as periods and commas, that can make comprehension harder for the not initiated and, finally, iv) exclude symbols a priori useless within non discursive research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Javier Bassi•  32  Discourse Analysis, Focus Group discussions, Conversation Analysis, Qualitative methodologyYABTI XONGOLO phonetics phonology (by Ali Abdukedir, Afar linguist)This teaching material (module) is basically prepared for Afar language and Literature students. The module comprises the general science of linguistics, Phonetics and phonology, but particularly discusses Afaric phonetics and phonology.... moreThis teaching material (module) is basically prepared for Afar language and Literature students. The module comprises the general science of linguistics, Phonetics and phonology, but particularly discusses Afaric phonetics and phonology. in detail. This module may initiate scholars who have interest to study Afar languag (Qafar-af).Save to LibraryDownloadby Cabib Mucammad•  4  Acoustic Phonetics, Articulatory Phonetics, Phonetics and Phonology, Phonetic TranscriptionPronunciation and Phonemic Transcription: A study of advanced Finnish learners of EnglishThis book focuses on the pronunciation of university students. The study also concentrates on one teaching method: phonemic transcription. The book desribes the level and development of students' pronunciation of English during a... moreThis book focuses on the pronunciation of university students. The study also concentrates on one teaching method: phonemic transcription. The book desribes the level and development of students' pronunciation of English during a pronunciation course and how transcription and pronunciation skills correlate.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pekka Lintunen•  6  Phonetics, Phonological Awareness, English as a Foreign Language (EFL), Pronunciation Teaching‘More consistent and systematic than any form of writing I know.’ Kurt Schwitters’s SystemschriftHerbert Bayer, Jan Tschichold and several other modernist typographers demanded that the alphabet be redesigned in order to represent speech more faithfully, yet Kurt Schwitters’s Systemschrift was the only such experiment that pursued to... moreHerbert Bayer, Jan Tschichold and several other modernist typographers demanded that the alphabet be redesigned in order to represent speech more faithfully, yet Kurt Schwitters’s Systemschrift was the only such experiment that pursued to the end the modernist typographers’ rally cry of ‘one sound, one sign’. To achieve this, Schwitters rejected the standard characters of the Latin alphabet and designed entirely new symbols informed by phonetic analysis of speech sounds. Further, Systemschrift included aspects of non-arbitrary signification through imagery; the characters can be interpreted as depictions of the articulatory positions of the vocal organ. In so doing, Schwitters emulated experiments conducted by nineteenth-century English phoneticians.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robin Fuller•  4  Typography, Phonetic Transcription, Kurt Schwitters, Jan TschicholdAlphabet phonétique Boehmer/BourciezL’alphabet phonétique Boehmer-Bourciez (nom que lui donne Jacques Chaurand dans son Introduction à la dialectologie française, Paris, Bordas, 1972, p.22) a longtemps été employé par de nombreux romanistes. Légèrement modifié par Gaston... moreL’alphabet phonétique Boehmer-Bourciez (nom que lui donne Jacques Chaurand dans son Introduction à la dialectologie française, Paris, Bordas, 1972, p.22) a longtemps été employé par de nombreux romanistes. Légèrement modifié par Gaston Zink (1986), il continue, dans une version ou une autre, d’être utilisé par certains romanistes, notamment spécialistes de français médiéval.Pour imprimer ce document, il est préférable d’utiliser le fichier PDF et le format A3 (au format A4, la lecture est malaisée). Vous pouvez télécharger ces documents à cette adresse:https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0BwBwituFjZOQaGZlcDg4dGtjSWc?resourcekey=0-nIsRSDJ8xzFD9QEsX2nmDw&usp=sharingSave to LibraryDownloadby Matthieu Segui•  3  Phonetics, Phonetic Transcription, Phonetic AlphabetUnusual sounds in Nigerian languagesSave to LibraryDownloadby Matthew  Harley•  7  Phonetics, Chadic Linguistics, Acoustic Phonetics, African languagesKlinik Fonetik ve Ağız Araştırmaları İçin Özelleştirilmiş Praat Programı İle UygulamaDikkat! Özelleştirilmiş Praat paketi aşağıdaki adresten indirilebilir:https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B4QKykn2bzqQa0JQRTZtU08yZWs?resourcekey=0-kYz6XS59uRJCKj4YuhaqhQSave to LibraryDownloadby Mehmet Akif KILIC•  10  Phonetics, Speech-Language Pathology/ Communication Disorders, Audiology, Acoustic PhoneticsResumen de la adaptación del código de transcripción de Gail JeffersonTabla-resumen, con fines pedagógicos y de divulgación, de mi propuesta de adaptación del código de transcripción de Gail Jefferson. El artículo completo puede consultarse aquí: http://www.quadernsdepsicologia.cat/article/view/v17-n2-bassiSave to LibraryDownloadby Javier Bassi•  25  Discourse Analysis, Critical Discourse Studies, Focus Group discussions, Conversation AnalysisPhonemic Transcription and its Effect on LearningThe paper focuses on a study in which 34 Finnish university students of English were taught pronunciation skills and phonemic transcription simultaneously. The study indicates that pronunciation and transcription skills correlate and that... moreThe paper focuses on a study in which 34 Finnish university students of English were taught pronunciation skills and phonemic transcription simultaneously. The study indicates that pronunciation and transcription skills correlate and that exercises in phonemic transcription are effective when teaching English as a foreign language. Transcription seems likely to be particularly beneficial for learners used to a close grapheme-phoneme relationship in their native language.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pekka Lintunen•  11  Teaching English as a Second Language, Phonological Awareness, Phonetics and Pronunciation, English as a Foreign Language (EFL)Differentiations between dialects in the British Isles regarding the diachronic development of vowelsThis project will explore the dialectal differences in the British Isles regarding vowels undergoing differently several processes throughout the history of British English. It is divided in three parts combining both theoretical and... moreThis project will explore the dialectal differences in the British Isles regarding vowels undergoing differently several processes throughout the history of British English. It is divided in three parts combining both theoretical and practical approaches in order to prove different experts’ theories regarding dialectal differentiations of the British English vowels. The first section is dedicated to a thorough description of the English vowels, taking into account the diagrams of Roach (2004), as well as a general theoretical explanation of the processes which will be taken in consideration following the studies of Mossé (1952), Wells (1982) and Trask (1996). The second section is a summary of the forthcoming experiment based on differences between accents regarding vowels. This section includes all the relevant information such as procedures and data analysis. Throughout the third section the results of the experiment, and how they prove dialectal differences in Britain regarding vowels, are presented as well as explanations for any dissimilarities there are between the results and the theorists’ conclusions. This project closes with general conclusions considering the information previously stated as well as an outlook for the limitations and improvements of the experiment.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marta Galán•  22  Diachronic Linguistics (Or Historical Linguistics), Phonology, Phonetics, English Phonetics and PhonologyLassen Sie sich kein E für ein O vormachen. Wie „übersetzt“ man kyrillische Buchstaben?Zu Transliteration und Transkription des Kyrillischen in der PresseSave to LibraryDownloadby Ilja  Karenovics•  3  Russian Studies, Slavic Linguistics, Phonetic TranscriptionSyllabic inventory of a Western Naxi dialect, and correspondence with Joseph F. Rock's transcriptionsSave to LibraryDownloadby boyd michailovsky•  5  Tibeto-Burman Linguistics, Phonetic Transcription, Naxi, Phonemic AnalysisPhthegms: A Model to Enhance the Phonetic Representation of LanguagesThese notes propose the concept of "phthegms" as a concept that groups the phonemes of a given language according to the degree of relative transversal opening of the glottis during their phonation. It defines the kinds of... moreThese notes propose the concept of "phthegms" as a concept that groups the phonemes of a given language according to the degree of relative transversal opening of the glottis during their phonation.  It defines the kinds of voicelessness and voicedness that phonemes correspond to within a given phthegm, proposing the concepts of α(alpha)-voiced, α-voiceless, α-glottal, β(beta)-voiced, β-voiceless, β-glottal. It also puts forward a definition of the modal-voiced group of phthegms. Transversal glottality (α-glottalization and β-glottalization) is distinguished from longitudinal γ-glottalization.  Subsequently, it proceeds to define the protophthegm as the main phthegm of a language, and invokes the least-effort and the maximal-contrast principles to explain the distribution of the consonants of a language into the protophthegm and other phthegms. Further concepts such as paraphthegm, allophthegm, symphthegmic phonemes, metaphthegm, etc. are derived from the preceding ones. Furthermore, the aspiration of consonants and their voice onset time (VOT) are also revisited and analyzed with regard to phthegms.Save to LibraryDownloadby Diego dos Reis Oliveira•  4  Historical Linguistics, Articulatory Phonetics, Phonetic Transcription, Historical PhonologyDoing phonetic transcription on MoodleMoodle is an open-source learning management system, one of the leading e-learning platforms in use today at all levels of education. It has been successfully used in the teaching of phonetics and pronunciation (e.g. Ashby et al. 2009;... moreMoodle is an open-source learning management system, one of the leading e-learning platforms in use today at all levels of education. It has been successfully used in the teaching of phonetics and pronunciation (e.g. Ashby et al. 2009; Wilson 2008). This paper will present various aspects of the use of phonetic transcription on Moodle on the example of a b-learning module supporting a course in English Phonetics and Phonology within a university programme in English Studies. First, we will present our approach to interactive transcription exercises based on two Moodle question types: multiple choice and short answer with input from a custom-developed keyboard with IPA symbols. Pre-programmed hints for both wrong and correct answers provide comprehensive just-in-time feedback, which creates a more personalised and effective learning environment. A survey on students’ attitudes to Moodle solutions shows, however, that students prefer paper exercises because they can be completed faster. Various ways of delivering phonetic transcription to participants for presentation purposes will be presented (image vs. PDF vs. Flash vs. Unicode text), and their relative strengths and weaknesses will be discussed. Methods of styling the Unicode text of phonetic transcription as part of Moodle web pages will be described. Finally, we will demonstrate how the preparation of quiz questions can be automated and performed in batch mode offline (bypassing the often cumbersome question-building interface of Moodle) using widely available word-processing software such as MS Word.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kacper Łodzikowski and +1Jaroslaw Weckwerth•  8  E-learning, TESOL, English as a Foreign Language (EFL), Pronunciation TeachingTeaching oral interpretation of literatureSave to LibraryDownloadby Tina Høegh•  7  Orality-Literacy Studies, Listening Comprehension (Psychology of Language), Classroom Interaction, Teaching ListeningOn the Curious Life of Sanskrit in Japan – the Case of a 17th Century Japanese Siddham ManualAs Buddhism travelled to the East, so did its languages. Sanskrit, and even some texts in Prakrits like Gāndhārī gradually found their way into China. But these sacred texts did not contain mere narratives—they also had mantras—potent... moreAs Buddhism travelled to the East, so did its languages. Sanskrit, and even some texts in Prakrits like Gāndhārī gradually found their way into China. But these sacred texts did not contain mere narratives—they also had mantras—potent formulae with soteriological, ritualistic and even magical significance. There was a problem, however. The argument for the necessity of a mantra’s exactitude had been inherited from the ritual environment of South Asia where Buddhism had grown up. But how to render the sacred sounds of mantras into Chinese? When, a few centuries later, it was brough to Japan, the same problem arose, but this time with Chinese as an intermediary, creating a perfect storm of systems nested within other systems—phonetic, semantic and scriptural. By a roll of the phonetic dice, Japanese is acoustically much better suited to the rendition of Sanskrit than its mainland counterparts. However, this did not prevent Japanese Buddhist schools from developing their own ideas about mantras and their usage, mixing and matching phrases, pronunciations and meanings as they went along. In this talk I will attempt to lay out the fascinating problematics of this dynamic using the example of a Japanese Siddham manual from the year 1695. I will explore the interplay of historic pronunciations and their written renditions and look at examples of how Japanese Buddhist traditions took mantras and over the centuries made them their own. This process is still ongoing, as mantras continue to be made, live and evolve even in present-day Japan.Save to LibraryDownloadby Georgi Krastev•  18  Japanese Buddhism, Buddhist Sanskrit, Kukai, Chinese Buddhism (Buddhist Studies)Perception of English Intonation by EgyptiansThe present study is designed to examine the perception of English intonation by ‎non-native speakers of English; this will be done through one experimental ‎discrimination test. Six English sentences (three declaratives and three... moreThe present study is designed to examine the perception of English intonation by ‎non-native speakers of English; this will be done through one experimental ‎discrimination test. Six English sentences (three declaratives and three ‎interrogatives) are chosen carefully from a large online data base called “English ‎Sentences with Audio” that created in July 2014. All the sentences are pronounced ‎by one Native American English speaker. All of the sentences are edited and ‎transcribed automatically, by using “IPA Phonetic Transcription of English Text”, to ‎be ready for the perceptual test.  In order to measure the non-native English ‎speakers’ ability in discriminating between two types of English intonations, 50 ‎Egyptian listeners are involved in the present experiment. Arabic language is the ‎listeners’ mother tongue and they all learn English language in schools and collage as ‎a second language. The results indicate that the Arabic listeners can discriminate ‎between two different intonation patterns (fall & rise) of English sentences that ‎occurred within a given group, with major accuracy than discriminating between two ‎sentences with the same intonation patterns ((fall& fall )or (rise & rise)) that ‎occurred within a given group too. ‎Save to LibraryDownloadby DR. Eman M . Y O U S R I El- Gamal•  12  Perception, Phonology, Phonetics, Auditory PerceptionIzabela Beljić. 2016. Una aportacion al cambio de las reglas de transcripcion de nombres propios espanoles en serbioLa pronunciación y la transcripción de nombres propios extranjeros es hoy en día un tema muy actual, tal vez más que nunca. Con el proceso de globalización y el rápido intercambio de información surgen varios dilemas con respecto al nivel... moreLa pronunciación y la transcripción de nombres propios extranjeros es hoy en día un tema muy actual, tal vez más que nunca. Con el proceso de globalización y el rápido intercambio de información surgen varios dilemas con respecto al nivel de adaptación de los nombres propios. La presente situación en cuanto a la transferencia de nombres españoles al serbio es contradictoria, ambigua e inconsistente, dado que las reglas de transcripción y las prácticas reales no coinciden. La fuerte influencia de la tradición ortográfica y la aplicación inconsecuente de ciertas reglas inadecuadas ha producido una confusión en la práctica lingüística. Debido a numerosas incoherencias y arbitrariedades, no es nada raro que un antropónimo o topónimo de origen español se pronuncie de dos (o más) maneras distintas y que, en consecuencia, coexistan diferentes variantes del mismo nombre.Sin embargo, las normas existentes no se respetan, por lo cual se ve la necesidad de una revisión y reformulación de normas. En el trabajo se propone una transcripción con adaptación mínima, donde las voces de la lengua original –solo con ajustes necesarios– se transmitan con las voces más cercanas de la lengua receptora. Desde una perspectiva crítica hacia las políticas y prácticas de la transcripción actual y con un enfoque renovador y abierto al cambio, se propone la estandarización de las reglas y la aplicación coherente de las normas más apropiadas y patrones más deseables. El objetivo de este artículo es poner un orden en el área de transcripción de nombres propios españoles, presentar una propuesta para futuras transcripciones y establecer unas reglas uniformes que consideran a la práctica lingüística que persiste fuertemente por décadas.Palabras clave: reglas de transcripción, tradición ortográfica, pronunciación original, adaptación mínima, normalización.* * * Pronunciation and transcription of foreign proper names in Serbian is a topical issue today, maybe more than ever. Due to the process of globalization and rapid exchange of information, many dilemmas regarding the level of adaptation of personal names can arise. The present situation concerning the transfer of Spanish names into Serbian is contradictory, ambiguous, and inconsistent, since the transcription rules and actual practices collide. A strong influence of orthographic tradition and incongruous application of certain inaccurate rules cause confusion in linguistic practice. Due to numerous irregularities and arbitrariness, it is not unusual that a personal or place name of Spanish origin is pronounced in two (or more) different ways, which results in coexistence of different variants of the same name.The current rules should be revised and reformulated since they are not strictly observed. The author of this article suggests minimal changes in transcription, the result of which would be that the sounds of the source language are represented by the closest sounds of the target language that would only involve the necessary adjustments. The author proposes taking a critical perspective towards the policies and practices of the current transcription, taking an innovative and flexible approach open to changes, standardization of rules, consistent application of the corresponding rules and more suitable patterns. The aim of this paper is to regulate transcription of Spanish names, to propose solutions for future transcriptions and to establish uniform rules which take into account the linguistic practice that has been present for decades.Key words: transcription rules, orthographic tradition, original pronunciation, minimal adaptation, standardization.Save to LibraryDownloadby Izabela Beljić•  3  Phonetics, Phonetics and Pronunciation, Phonetic TranscriptionA Description of Tucumán Spanish Intonation, ArgentinaThis paper documents for the first time the intonation system of Tucumán Spanish, an understudied variety of Argentinian Spanish. Semi-spontaneous speech illustrating the intonation of main sentence types, i.e., broad focus statements,... moreThis paper documents for the first time the intonation system of Tucumán Spanish, an understudied variety of Argentinian Spanish. Semi-spontaneous speech illustrating the intonation of main sentence types, i.e., broad focus statements, partial and absolute interrogatives, imperatives and vocatives, was elicited from 31 native speakers of Tucumán Spanish via an adapted version of the Argentinian Intonation Survey (Prieto and Roseano 2009-2013). The two authors listened to the recordings and transcribed them using the Tones and Break Indexes conventions (ToBI, Beckman et al. 2002, Prieto and Roseano 2010, Hualde and Prieto 2015). Transcriptions of prenuclear and nuclear configurations together with their respective frequencies allowed both an appreciation of the most used configurations within each sentence type along with detailed variation at the phonetic level. For example, yes/no questions were consistently realized with a low nuclear pitch accent L* and an ascending boundary tone. However, there was variation in the height of the boundary tones yielding the frequent contour L* ¡H%, and the less frequent L* H%. Altogether, these detailed patterns document the systematic phonetic variation of the intonation system of TS and provide a basis for future research to test the phonological status of this variation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marta Ortega-Llebaria•  4  Spanish Linguistics, Intonation, Phonetic Transcription, Language Documentation and DescriptionAN ENHANCED ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT SYSTEM (E-ETS)Transcript is an inventory system holding student academic record. This system has been implemented conventional, electronically or implemented using web services approaches which have been devoid of mobile computing approach and system... moreTranscript is an inventory system holding student academic record. This system has been implemented conventional, electronically or implemented using web services approaches which have been devoid of mobile computing approach and system classification rules. The proposed architecture provides an assiduous pathway for the implementation of the aforementioned issues. This architecture has the propensity for cutting down operational cost and hardcopy documentation while handling organizationalprocedures and processes.Save to LibraryDownloadby International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology ( IJCSIT ) INSPEC ,WJCI Indexed•  13  Transcription Factors, Mobile Computing, Transcription, TranscriptomeLa trascrizione dell'armenoThe transcription of Armenian language. Historical notes and reflections. The paper examines in a historical overview the different methods of transliteration of the Armenian alphabet onto Latin characters from Ambrogio degli Albonesi... moreThe transcription of Armenian language. Historical notes and reflections. The paper examines in a historical overview the different methods of transliteration of the Armenian alphabet onto Latin characters from Ambrogio degli Albonesi (XVIth century) to the present day, and focuses the most important problems that linguistics must face in the transliteration of foreign alphabets. Il primo tentativo di fornire una traslitterazione in caratteri latini dell'alfabeto armeno si trova nella Introductio in Chaldaicam linguam, Syriacam atque Armenicam et decem alias linguas characterum differentium Alphabeta pubblicata a Pavia nel 1539 dal canonico e umanista italiano Teseo Ambrogio degli Albonesi (1469-1540), una singolare figura di studioso di lingue orientali con interessi anche filosofici ed esoterici. La conoscenza dell'armeno gli derivò inizialmente dall'incontro con una delegazione di armeni giunti in Italia per chiedere aiuto al Papa Paolo III per il riscatto di alcuni loro connazionali ridotti in schiavitù nelle tribolate vicende del periodo. L'Albonese successivamente approfondì lo studio della lingua con l'aiuto di un amico veneziano e con lo studio di alcuni manoscritti contenenti il testo della Bibbia e traduzioni di Aristotele e Porfirio. L'Introductio non è una sistematica descrizione della grammatica armena, bensì una introduzione generale allo studio di alcune lingue orientali (in particolare siriaco e armeno). Inoltre Ambrogio era interessato ai problemi della stampa, e si era proposto di realizzare delle matrici di caratteri armeni e siriaci. La cosa non costituiva una novità assoluta, perché il primo libro a stampa armeno era stato pubblicato a Venezia nel 1511. Inoltre nel 1538 l'umanista francese Guillaume Postel aveva pubblicato a Parigi una rassegna di alfabeti orientali intitolata Linguarum duodecim characteribus differentium Alphabetum che conteneva fra gli altri un alfabeto armeno, corredato anche dal testo dell'Oratio dominica con una traslitterazione in caratteri latini: questo libro però era frutto di un plagio: il Postel aveva sottratto ad Ambrogio buona parte del materiale che stava raccogliendo e l'aveva pubblicata per ottenere la priorità: l'opera del Postel è inferiore anche sotto il profilo meramente tecnico, perché i suoi caratteri armeni sono ottenuti per incisione, mentre Ambrogio 103 MORENO MORANI La trascrizione dell'armeno. Appunti storici e riflessioniSave to LibraryDownloadby Moreno Morani•  4  Indo-European Linguistics, Armenian Language, Armenian Linguistics, Phonetic TranscriptionVowel reduction and loss: challenges and perspectivesThis introduction gives an overview of a workshop on vowel reduction and loss held at SLE 2017 and the resulting papers collected here. It also discusses the present state of research on vowel reduction and loss in a number of... moreThis introduction gives an overview of a workshop on vowel reduction and loss held at SLE 2017 and the resulting papers collected here. It also discusses the present state of research on vowel reduction and loss in a number of perspectives and outlines the main themes dealt with throughout the course of this special issue.Save to LibraryDownloadby Natalia Kuznetsova and +1Cormac Anderson•  20  Phonology, Phonetics, Phonetics-Phonology Interface, Acoustic PhoneticsInterphonologie: Realisierung des Ichlautes [ç] & Achlautes [x] bei brasilianischen DaF-StudentenIn dieser Abschlussarbeit geht es um die Realisierung von zwei Lauten des heutigen Standarddeutschen (SD), der Ichlaut [ç] und der Achlaut [x], bei vier brasilianischen DaF-Studenten der Bundesuniversität Santa Catarina (UFSC). Diese... moreIn dieser Abschlussarbeit geht es um die Realisierung von zwei Lauten des heutigen Standarddeutschen (SD), der Ichlaut [ç] und der Achlaut [x], bei vier brasilianischen DaF-Studenten der Bundesuniversität Santa Catarina (UFSC). Diese Untersuchung umfasst zwei linguistische Bereiche: die Phonetik und die Phonologie  und den Lautspracherwerb zwischen Mutter- und Fremdsprache. Die Motivation zur Untersuchung besteht darin, dass ich während meines Studiums bemerkt habe, dass meine DaF-Kollegen Schwierigkeiten bei der Realisierung dieser Laute aufwiesen. Aufmerksam kann man machen, dass der Ichlaut im Brasilianischen Portugiesisch (BP) gar nicht vorhanden ist, und der Achlaut tritt nur in einigen Dialekten auf. Auf diesem Weg sind solche Ziele dieser Arbeit vorzustellen: 1. Den Ichlaut und den Achlaut als L2-Laute zu analysieren; 2. Einen Perzeptionstest (Aussagesätze mit Bildern und auch einen Lesetest) mit den DaF-Studenten durchzuführen und zum Schluß 3. die phonetische Transkription des Testergebnis zu machen und sie zu analysieren, um herauzufinden, ob es eventuell auf einen Einfluss der Schrift und des Lautsystems der L1 (BP) dieser Laute oder andere phonetische Variationen (in der Wahrnehmung z.B.) zurückzuführen sei. Die theoretische Grundlage wird auf die Artikulatorische Phonetik und die Theorie der Interlanguage im Sinne von Sprachkontakt und linguistischer Transferenz basiert. Die Methodologie wird mittels eines Sprachtesten durchgeführt, der aus zwei Teilen besteht: einen Visuell mit Bildern und Aussagesätzen und einen Lesetest. Aufgrund dieses Tests wird auch der phonetische Perzeptionstest hinzugefügt, der danach beschrieben und analysiert wird. Außerdem wird den Testpersonen ein linguistischer Fragebogen zum Ausfüllen gegeben, in dem allgemeine Fragen über ihre linguistische Erfahrung mit der deutschen Sprache in Südbrasilien gestellt werden (siehe Anhang Kap. 05 und ihre ausführliche Beschreibung).Save to LibraryDownloadby Mágat N . Junges•  5  Articulatory Phonetics, Phonetics and Phonology, Phonetic Transcription, German as a Foreign LanguageIzabela Beljić, Bojana Kovačević, Željko Donić. 2019. Pravopisna norma i tradicija u transkripciji španskih grafema 'ch' i 'z' na srpski jezikOvaj rad nastao je iz potrebe da se preispitaju odnosi između pravopisne norme u transkripciji imena iz španskog jezika i njene praktične primene u javnom diskursu i prevodnom korpusu (prevodna književnost, stručna literatura). Premda je... moreOvaj rad nastao je iz potrebe da se preispitaju odnosi između pravopisne norme u transkripciji imena iz španskog jezika i njene praktične primene u javnom diskursu i prevodnom korpusu (prevodna književnost, stručna literatura). Premda je transkripcija imena iz španskog u srpski, zahvaljujući sličnosti fonetskog sistema dvaju jezika, većim delom jednostavna i logična, nekoliko neadekvatnih pravopisnih rešenja (među kojima su najuočljivije transkripcije glasova ch i z, prema grafiji, kao č i z) uticalo je na to da se između pravila koje nalaže pravopis i njihove praktične upotrebe, stvori diskrepancija koja traje duže od jednog veka.Sagledavanjem razvoja hispanistike u Srbiji, izučavanjem odeljaka o transkripciji u pravopisima iz 1923. (1934), 1960, 1993. i 2010, kao i tekstova Ivana Klajna i Momčila Savića, te analizom značajnih prevoda nastalih od kraja XIX veka do danas, došli smo do zaključka da većina hispanista i prevodilaca sa španskog jezika već više od stotinu godina, s manjim odstupanjima, primenjuje gotovo istovetan transkripcioni sistem, koji nije u skladu sa zvaničnim pravopisnim propisima, nastalim u međuvremenu. Usredsredivši istraživanje na španske glasove ch i z, u članku iznosimo tvrdnju da naši glasovi č i z, koje kastiljanski jezik ne poznaje, nisu adekvatni parnjaci za transkripciju. Stoga predlažemo normativno usklađivanje – njihovo prenošenje fonetski najbližim glasovima ć i s, koji decenijama preovlađuju u korpusu prevodne književnosti sa španskog jezika, kao i u najvećem delu naučne produkcije ovdašnjih hispanista.Ključne reči: transkripcija sa španskog jezika, transkripcija španskih grafema ch i z, pravopisna tradicija u transkripciji, transkripcione tradicije i prakse u prevodnoj književnosti i nauci.* * *This article has arisen from the need to re-examine the relations between the orthography standard in the transcription of Spanish language words, and its practical application in public discourse and translation corpus (translated literature, professional texts). Although the transmission of the Spanish words into Serbian, due to the similarity of the phonetic system of the two languages, is mostly simple and logical, several inadequate spelling solutions (among which the most obvious is the transcription of ‘ch’ and ‘z’ voices according to graphics, as 'č' and 'z'), influenced the fact that the rules prescribed by the official orthography and their practical use created a discrepancy that has been lasting more than a century.By examining the development of Hispanic Studies in Serbia, exploring the 1923 (1934), 1960, 1993, and 2010 Orthography transcription sections, as well as Ivan Klajn’s and Momčilo Savić’s texts, and analysing significant translations from the end of the 19th century to the present, we came to the conclusion that most Spanish-language translators and experts in Hispanic Studies have been using a nearly identical transcription system, with minor deviations, for more than a hundred years. That system is not in line with the official spelling rules that has been created in the meantime. By focusing on the research on Spanish voices ‘ch’ and ‘z’, the article claims that Serbian voices ‘č’ and ‘z’ – unknown in Castilian language –, are not adequate for the transcription. Therefore, we suggest normative harmonization: their transmission with the voices ‘ć’ and ‘s’ – phonetically closest to the Spanish ones –, that have prevailed for decades in the Hispanic literature translation corpus, as well as in the most of the scientific production of Serbian Hispanists.Key words: transcription from Spanish, transcription of Spanish graphs ‘ch’ and ‘z’, spelling tradition in transcription, transcription traditions and practices in translated literature and science.Save to LibraryDownloadby Izabela Beljić and +1Bojana Kovačević Petrović•  3  Phonetics, Phonetics and Pronunciation, Phonetic TranscriptionMétodo simplificado de uso do Alfabeto Fonético Internacional para canto em Português Brasileiro por coristas não-lusófonosEsse artigo apresenta resultados da aplicação prática de um método pedagógico de ensino e aplicação do Alfabeto Fonético Internacional (IPA) para preparação de repertório brasileiro cantado em português com um coro formado por cantores... moreEsse artigo apresenta resultados da aplicação prática de um método pedagógico  de ensino e aplicação do Alfabeto Fonético Internacional (IPA) para preparação de repertório brasileiro cantado em português com um coro formado por cantores norte-americanos. O método foi aplicado na preparação de obras corais de Ronaldo Miranda em uma universidade dos EUA como parte do curso de doutorado em regência coral do autor. O artigo apresenta um breve histórico dos estudos em dicção do português brasileiro cantado, discute características importantes do idioma, descreve as características de uma versão simplificada de ensino e utilização do IPA para o Português Brasileiro cantado proposta pelo autor e analisa os resultados da aplicação prática do método usado.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Eduardo da Silva Vieira•  6  Choral Conducting, Choral Music, Phonetic Transcription, Rehearsal StrategiesNextLast »Related TopicsArticulatory PhoneticsFollowFollowingDescriptive PhoneticsFollowFollowingPortuguese PhoneticsFollowFollowingHarpsichordFollowFollowingGreco-Roman MythologyFollowFollowingBritish MusicFollowFollowingAcoustic PhoneticsFollowFollowingLinkedInFollowFollowingProsodyFollowFollowingAllophonesFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023