Constantinople Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Constantinople16,758 FollowersRecent papers in ConstantinopleTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleThe Harvard Expedition to Samaria: A Story of Twists and Turns in the Opening Season of 1908The previously unpublished field diaries of the principal leaders involved in the first season of the Harvard Expedition to Samaria are held by the University's Semitic Museum. The narrative they contain sheds light on the organization... moreThe previously unpublished field diaries of the principal leaders involved in the first season of the Harvard Expedition to Samaria are held by the University's Semitic Museum. The narrative they contain sheds light on the organization and archaeological techniques applied at the site and gives some context to the much acclaimed final publication of the excavations (Reisner, Fisher & Lyon, 1924).Save to LibraryDownloadby Ron Tappy•  13  Archaeology, Ottoman History, Archaeology of Ancient Israel, First World WarN. B. Teteriatnikov: Justinianic Mosaics of Hagia Sophia and Their Aftermath. Washington, DC, 2017. In: Plekos 22, 2020, 475–486 (URL: http://www.plekos.uni-muenchen.de/2020/r-teteriatnikov.pdf) .Save to LibraryDownloadby Mabi Angar•  7  Byzantine Studies, Ancient Mosaics, Material Culture, ConstantinopleThe Ottoman Imagery of Jacopo Ligozzi in Medici FlorenceSave to LibraryDownloadby William Kynan-Wilson•  128  History, European History, Cultural History, Cultural StudiesThe Pope's Agents in Constantinople: Eugenius IV's Legation on the Eve of the Council of Ferrara-Florence (1438-1439)The legation sent by Pope Eugenius IV to Constantinople in 1437 played a critical role in the long diplomatic efforts towards a reunification of the Latin and Greek Churches, and paved the way for the Council of Ferrara-Florence... moreThe legation sent by Pope Eugenius IV to Constantinople in 1437 played a critical role in the long diplomatic efforts towards a reunification of the Latin and Greek Churches, and paved the way for the Council of Ferrara-Florence (1438–1439). With some exceptions, such as the later Cardinal Nicholas Cusanus, the members of the delegation have not received wide attention. This paper presents a biographical analysis of all those involved – the nuncios, the financiers and the galley commanders – and their relationship to the Pope. The findings provide new insight into Eugenius IV’s diplomacy towards the Byzantines, as well as Cusanus’s place in it. Cusanus’s presence added conciliar legitimacy, but the key functions were in the hands of a core team of Venetians – including non-patricians – who had prior experience in Constantinople and a personal connection to the Pope.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maarten Halff•  15  Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Mediterranean Studies, Papacy (Medieval Church History)“The Corpus of Floor Mosaics of Constantinople,” in Byzanz - das Römerreich im Mittelalter, Monographien des Römisch-Germanisches Zentralmuseum (Mainz, 2010), vol. 84, 3: 127-134Save to LibraryDownloadby Orgu Dalgic•  13  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Late Antique Archaeology, Late Antiquity, Byzantine ArchaeologyFavray Antoine (1706-1798) Grand Manner PainterAntoine de Favray, a French High Baroque painter, arrived in Malta in 1744 after six years residence at the French Academy in Rome. His flamboyant portraits of knights and ladies in quaint costumes met immediate success. While his... moreAntoine de Favray, a French High Baroque painter, arrived in Malta in 1744 after six years residence at the French Academy in Rome. His flamboyant portraits of knights and ladies in quaint costumes met immediate success. While his fascination for Oriental mores induced him in 1761 to sail for Constantinople on board the 'Corona Ottomana' on its restitution to the Sublime Porte. In the course of the next ten years, Favray became a celebrated Orientalist artist until he returned to Malta in 1771. The following two studies focus on Favray's activities in his first Maltese sojourn.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dominic Cutajar•  5  Orientalism in art, Constantinople, Académie De France à Rome, Grand Master PintoTextiles in Italo-Turkish Relations: From the Past to the Present, in Motta and Biagini (eds) "Fashion through History: Costumes, Symbols, Communication (Volume II)", Cambridge Scholars Publishing, Newcastle, 2017 pp. 59-69.Save to LibraryDownloadby Francesco Pongiluppi•  23  History, Ottoman History, Italian Studies, TextilesA. Ricci, Contesti Funerari Bizantini e loro Archeologia a Küçükyalı (Istanbul): Considerazioni Preliminari/ Küçükuyalı’da Bizans mezar kontekstleri ve arkeolojisi: ilk değerlendirmeler, In:  Arkeoloji ve Sanat, 148 (2015), 177-190Save to LibraryDownloadby Alessandra Ricci•  13  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Funerary Archaeology, Byzantine Studies, Funeral Practices"The jeunes de langues in the eighteenth century: Spain's first diplomatic interpreters on the European model", Interpreting, John Benjamins Publishing Company, vol. 14:2, pp. 127-144This article explores the history in Europe of the training of interpreters specialized in diplomacy, which began in the Renaissance Venetian Republic, when this European power started to train the so-called giovani di lingua in its... moreThis article explores the history in Europe of the training of interpreters specialized in diplomacy, which began in the Renaissance Venetian Republic, when this European power started to train the so-called giovani di lingua in its embassy in Constantinople. The Venetian model was imitated and developed by other European powers, especially by France and the Austrian monarchy, trying to strengthen their relations with the Ottoman Empire by training their own jeunes de langues and Sprachknaben, respectively. In Spain the equivalent figure, the joven de lenguas, emerged later, in the last third of the 18th century, and there is evidence of several proposals to create a Spanish school to train these youngsters. The profile of the selected jóvenes who would serve at the Spanish embassies and consulates in foreign regions is also analyzed. Finally, the Spanish example is compared with the pioneering European models, especially with the Venetian, the French and the Austrian ones.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ingrid Cáceres-Würsig•  3  Cultural Diplomacy, Constantinople, History of Translation and InterpretationPauline Allen, Bronwen Neil (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Maximus the ConfessorSave to LibraryDownloadby Sylvain Destephen•  7  Orthodox Theology, Late Antiquity, Church History, Maximus the ConfessorAgent-based modelling and construction – reconstructing antiquity's largest infrastructure project Agent-based modelling and construction – reconstructing antiquity's largest infrastructure projectArchaeological remains around the world are testament that large-scale construction projects have been successfully carried out for millennia. This success is particularly evident through the great infrastructural works of the Roman... moreArchaeological remains around the world are testament that large-scale construction projects have been successfully carried out for millennia. This success is particularly evident through the great infrastructural works of the Roman Empire. Yet, it was when the capital was moved from Rome to Constantinople that the largest of these projects was undertaken. This megaproject of the fourth-and fifth-century water supply was made of hundreds of kilometres aqueduct channels and bridges that brought fresh water to the city's complex system of reservoirs and cisterns. Unlike projects of the previous centuries, we are left with no written record of how this titanic project was undertaken and existing archaeological and historical commentaries on structures of this period do not provide details of organization of construction. We explore the nature of building Constantinople's water supply through diverse sources of knowledge and the application of agent-based modelling – a method for simulating the actions, interactions and behaviours of autonomous agents and the resulting emergent properties of the system in which they are a part. This paper demonstrates the ability of ABM to develop and test richer hypotheses about historical construction organization and management than physical and historical evidence on their own.Save to LibraryDownloadby Riley Snyder•  9  Decision Making, Construction Management, Late Antiquity, Byzantine ArchaeologyMiasto na skrzyżowaniu mórz i kontynentów Wczesno- i średniobizantyński Konstantynopol jako miasto portowe [Metropolis between the seas and continents: Early and Middle Byzantine Constantinople as the port city], eds. Mirosław J. Leszka, Kirił Marinow, Łódź 2016, 341 pp.Wstęp Mirosław J. Leszka, Kirił Marinow................................................... 1 I Konstantynopolitańskie porty IV–XII w. [Constantinopolitan harbours in the 4th–12th centuries] Mirosław J. Leszka......... 5 II Wszystkie... moreWstęp Mirosław J. Leszka, Kirił Marinow................................................... 1IKonstantynopolitańskie porty IV–XII w. [Constantinopolitan harbours in the 4th–12th centuries] Mirosław J. Leszka......... 5IIWszystkie okręty cesarza. Rozważania nad stanem rzymskiej marynarki wojennej za panowania cesarza Maurycjusza (582–602) [All ships of the emperor: Roman Navy during the reign of emperor Maurice (582–602)] Łukasz Różycki........................................................................................... 17IIIKonstantynopolitańska eskadra cesarska w dobie panowania Komnenów (1081–1185) [Constantinopolitan squadron in the era of imperial reign of Comnenian dynasty (1081–1185)] Marcin Böhm....................................................................................... 47IVWygnani biskupi Konstantynopola w późnej starożytności i ich kontakty ze stolicą nad Bosforem [The Exiled Bishops of Constantinople from the Fourth to the Late Sixth Century] Rafał Kosiński................63VChazarowie w Konstantynopolu (VII–XI w.) [The Khazars in Constantinople] Jarosław Dudek …........ 79VIMiejsce portu w fabule dwunastowiecznego romansu bizantyńskiego [The port in the plot of the twelfth-century Byzantine romance] Anna Kotłowska . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103VIIWinieta Konstantynopola na mapie z Ebstorf [Vignette of Constantinople on the Ebstorf Map] Piotr Kochanek……………………. . . 113VIIIHodegon – z rozważań nad pierwotną lokalizacją konstantynopolitańskiego sanktuarium [The Hodegon. Considerations on the location of the Hodegetria sanctuary in Constantinople] Piotr Łukasz Grotowski . ……………………………. . . . . 137IXPogańskie prywatne uroczystości kommemoratywne w okresie wczesnobizantyńskim [Pagan Private Commemorative Rites in the Early Byzantine Period] Ireneusz Milewski . . . .  . ……………... . . . . . . . . . 215Aneks [Annex]Itinerarium Stefana z Nowogrodu z opisem konstantynopolitańskiego portu Kontoskalion (1348/1349). Przekład i opracowanie [The Itinerary of Stephen of Novgorod: Containing a Description of Kontoskalion Harbour in Constantinople (1348/1349).] Zofia Brzozowska .. . . . . . 227Summary. . . . . . . ………………………………………. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 261Wykaz skrótów [List of Abbreviations]. …. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269Bibliografia [Bibliography]……… . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273Źródła [Sources]. . … . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273Opracowania [Secondary Literature]..  . ……. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289Indeks osobowy [Index]. ……………. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 315Indeks nazw geograficznych i etnicznych [Index of geographical and ethnical names]. . …. . . . . . . . . 328Indeks nazw konstantynopolitańskich [Index of Constantinopolitan names]….. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 333Save to LibraryDownloadby Kiril Marinow•  52  Cartography, Maritime Archaeology, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine StudiesA New Translation of the Historical Poems of Gregory Nazianzus: A Dream about the Church of Anastasia, Which he Constructed in the City of Constantinople,  Translated and Edited by Brian DuvickSave to LibraryDownloadby Brian Duvick•  20  Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Neoplatonism and late antique philosophy, Late Antique ArchaeologyConstantinople. The New Rome // Constantinopla. La nueva RomaConstantinopla es una de las ciudades con la historia más longeva y viva de todas cuantas han existido. Una afirmación que podría corroborar con el mero hecho de que a lo largo de sus casi dos mil ochocientos años de historia haya sido... moreConstantinopla es una de las ciudades con la historia más longeva y viva de todas cuantas han existido. Una afirmación que podría corroborar con el mero hecho de que a lo largo de sus casi dos mil ochocientos años de historia haya sido conocida con hasta cuatro nombres distintos —añadiéndose Bizancio, Antonina Augusta y Estambul al de Constantinopla. No obstante, aquí nos ocuparemos de su primera mitad, de la historia antigua de la ciudad. Un tiempo que se extiende desde el momento de la fundación de la pequeña colonia griega de Bizancio en el siglo VII a.C. en el promontorio que abre las puertas del Mar Negro, hasta el final de la Antigüedad tardía a la muerte del emperador Justiniano I en el VI d.C., pasando por el punto de inflexión que supuso el año 330 d.C. cuando Constantino I el Grande fundó una nueva Roma que, en esta ocasión, llevaría en adelante su propio nombre.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marco Alviz Fernández•  4  Roman History, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Byzantine Studies, ConstantinopleSynaxarium Constantinopolitanum  and the Arab Siege of Constantinople in 717Save to LibraryDownloadby Constantine Hatzidimitriou•  4  Byzantine Studies, Islam, Constantinople, ArabsThe Prehistory of the Istanbul Region A SurveySave to LibraryDownloadby Şevket Dönmez•  28  Near Eastern Archaeology, Anatolian Studies, Anatolian Archaeology, Anatolian HistoryPatrick O'Connor: Meet the real 'water diviner'Private Patrick O’Connor was captured on Gallipoli and spent more than two years in captivity. He should have served as the historic basis for Russell Crowe’s attempt at epic fantasy. The parallels between Private O’Connor and the film’s... morePrivate Patrick O’Connor was captured on Gallipoli and spent more than two years in captivity. He should have served as the historic basis for Russell Crowe’s attempt at epic fantasy. The parallels between Private O’Connor and the film’s subject are striking, serving to highlight how free and loose scriptwriters Andrew Anastasios and Andrew Knight have been with history in creating this “silly film”, as Professor Peter Stanley labelled it.Save to LibraryDownloadby Panayiotis Diamadis•  6  Film Studies, Armenian Studies, Genocide Studies, Modern GreeceJesus le Fils de Dieu de la Tradition chretienneJésus, l'unique engendré de Nicée-Constantinople.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jean-Marie Hyacinthe Quenum•  7  Christology, Dogmatic theology, Soteriology, ConstantinopleLa fede che incide: alcuni inediti graffiti della S. Sofia di Costantinopoli, in Di Bisanzio dirai ciò che è passato, ciò che passa e che sarà. Scritti in onore di Alessandra Guiglia, a cura di S. Pedone e A. Paribeni, Bardi Editore, Roma 2018. ISBN 9788894810189.Save to LibraryDownloadby Silvia Pedone•  10  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Studies, Late Antiquity, Byzantine ArchaeologyKonstantinopel kring 1900 som litterär värld. En kultursemiotisk analys av skandinaviska exempelConstantinople around 1900 as a Literary World. A Cultural Semiotic Analysis of Scandinavian Examples Constantinople, today’s Istanbul, was in the early 20th century a multiethnic, multireligious, and multilingual city with a diversity... moreConstantinople around 1900 as a Literary World. A Cultural Semiotic Analysis of Scandinavian ExamplesConstantinople, today’s Istanbul, was in the early 20th century a multiethnic, multireligious, and multilingual city with a diversity of writing systems. It was also an important and influential hub for international trade and politics, for Europe and the Western world. This essay is part of the research programme World Literatures – Cosmopolitan and Vernacular Dynamicsat Stockholm University. It aims to demonstrate how the vernacular (the local) depends on and interacts with the cosmopolitan in literary works on Constantinople during the decades around 1900, with a focus on Scandinavian languages and nationalities. For analysis and discussion I have chosen one poem in Danish by J. P. Jacobsen (1870), and travelogues and short prose texts in Swedish by Birger Mörner (1906) and Stéphanie Beyel (1919), and in Norwegian by Knut Hamsun (1903; 1905). Yuri M. Lotman’s concept of the semiosphereis used in combination with Eric Hayot’s study On Literary Worlds (2012) in order to explore the worldmaking capacity of the selected literary works – that is, how literary worldsare created as immanent aspects of literature. It is demonstrated that the literary world of Constantinople cannot be defined as either peripheral within a Western semiosphere or central within the Ottoman semiosphere. Rather, the city functions in these literary works as a threshold between East and West, or as the multilingual, intermediating and ambivalent border between the semiospheres, characterised by its simultaneously separating and uniting features. Unexpected connections between the vernacular elements of the cosmopolitan city are established. The literary world of Constantinople is not only portrayed in the languages of Scandinavian readers; their languages are also a part of the Constantinopolitan multilingual mix.Save to LibraryDownloadby Helena  Bodin•  8  Cultural Semiotics, Knut Hamsun, Constantinople, World MakingSainte-Sophie de Constantinople dans l'ekphrasis poétique de Paul le Silentiaire: entre l'histoire et l'idéologiedans : Images de la cathédrale dans la littérature et dans l'art. Actes du colloque de Tours (5-7 octobre 2066), Cahiers de Rencontre avec patrimoine religieux, coll. Art sacré 26, Tours 2008, p. 75-89.Save to LibraryDownloadby Izabela Jurasz•  6  Byzantine Studies, Ekphrasis, Constantinople, Byzantine artHippodroom wordt Paardenplein: de wederopstanding van Constantinopel na 1453 (2011)This paper traces changes and continuities in the "imperial landscape" of Constantinople after the Ottoman conquest (1453). It is shown how Mehmet II adopted an adapted the Romano-Byzantine ideology of universal rulership by reviving the... moreThis paper traces changes and continuities in the "imperial landscape" of Constantinople after the Ottoman conquest (1453). It is shown how Mehmet II adopted an adapted the Romano-Byzantine ideology of universal rulership by reviving the ritual and monumental forms which in the Byzantine past had expressed Constaninople's status as the symbolic center of the world.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rolf Strootman•  6  Ottoman Empire, Empires, Constantinople, History of IstanbulTeyfur Erdoğdu, Fethin Babası Fatih Sultan Mehmed. Yeni KitapBu eserde Fatih Sultan Mehmed’in bugüne kadar hiç yazılmamış hayat hikâyesini okuyacaksınız. Başarıları yanında başarısızlıkları, bugün bizleri çokça şaşırtacak uygulamaları, evlilikleri, yiyip içtikleri, ilginç merakları, tarihe ve... moreBu eserde Fatih Sultan Mehmed’in bugüne kadar hiç yazılmamış hayat hikâyesini okuyacaksınız. Başarıları yanında başarısızlıkları, bugün bizleri çokça şaşırtacak uygulamaları, evlilikleri, yiyip içtikleri, ilginç merakları, tarihe ve kültüre olan düşkünlüğü, savaş stratejileri ve teknikleri, ketumluğuna dair birbirinden ilginç tüm örnekler orijinal yerli ve yabancı belgelere dayanarak bu kitabın içinde işlendi.Zaman tünelinde bir maceraya hazırsanız sizi önce İstanbul’un fethine ve sarayın içine sonra devrin İstanbul’u, Anadolu’su, Balkanlarına; Karadeniz, Ege ve Akdeniz’e tarihsel capcanlı ve ilgi çekici bir geziye davet ediyoruz.Erdem YayınlarıSave to LibraryDownloadby A. Teyfur Erdogdu•  20  Ottoman History, Ottoman Studies, Byzantine Studies, Ottoman EmpireHIST 111 Introduction to Medieval History (632-1453) SyllabusThis course examines the interconnected medieval worlds of Europe, Africa, and Eurasia from the death of Muhammad to the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople. Content extends from the emergence of Islam to the Ottoman conquest of... moreThis course examines the interconnected medieval worlds of Europe, Africa, and Eurasia from the death of Muhammad to the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople. Content extends from the emergence of Islam to the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople in 1453. After a survey of late antiquity, Unit One of the semester, “The Shattering of Mediterranean Unity?” (632-1031), concentrates on the rise of Islam and the development of three distinct civilizations in the Mediterranean Basin: the Latin West, Byzantium, and the Caliphates. Unit Two, “Recovery and Revival” (1031-1227), examines the struggle between church and state, crusading and holy violence, the rise of towns and states, and trends in late medieval religion. Particular attention is given to women, religious minorities, and other marginalized groups. Unit Three (1215-1453) explores the close of the Middle Ages as signaled by the rise of the Ottoman Empire in the 1400s.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jesse J Hysell•  20  Crusades, Slavery, Antisemitism (Prejudice), Islamic StudiesDe nieuwe stichters van de Eeuwige Stad. Meervoudige verankering in het Rome van Augustus en de Late OudheidAnchoring can be a powerful strategy to legitimize innovation and changes, but its success also depends on the choice of the anchor. If a given anchor proves to be successful in one context, it may be purposefully employed again and again... moreAnchoring can be a powerful strategy to legitimize innovation and changes, but its success also depends on the choice of the anchor. If a given anchor proves to be successful in one context, it may be purposefully employed again and again in highly different circumstances. The foundation of Rome is a case in point: major innovations were repeatedly related to the city’s most distant beginnings, and founders of Rome came to act as mirrors through which the Romans recognized the novelties of the present in a primordial past. A concrete application of this idea is the phenomenon of ‘ktistic renewal’: redefining the concept of foundation, influential agents of innovation could be seen as ‘second founders’ of the city. This epithet was famously applied to the emperor Augustus, comparing him to Romulus. The way his innovative regime was anchored in turn functioned as an anchor for later innovations. In Late Antiquity, the apostles Peter and Paul were also seen as new founders of a reborn, Christian Rome. In both periods, foundational figures thus played a role as anchors to legitimate far-reaching religious and political changes. This article examines the repeated recourse to new and second founders in the Augustan Age and Late Antiquity to highlight the success of one anchoring device in two very distinct contexts. Obviously, such double or incremental anchoring may call for innovation in the use of the anchor itself – and that is exactly what this contribution aims to study.Save to LibraryDownloadby Raphael Hunsucker•  8  Latin Literature, Early Christianity, Late Antiquity, Augustan Principate"İstanbul Araştırmaları Enstitüsü, Hellenikos Philologikos Syllogos Yazıtlar Corpus'u: İstanbul'dan Antik Dönem Yazıtları (Istanbul Research Institute, Hellenikos Philologikos Syllogos Inscription Corpus, Ancient Inscriptions from Istanbul", İstanbul Araştırmaları Yıllığı 4 (2015), 7-26Istanbul Research Institute, Hellenikos Philologikos Syllogos Inscription Corpus, Ancient Inscriptions from Istanbul It is known many educational, intellectual and cultural societies were found in Anatolia and in Thrace... moreIstanbul Research Institute, Hellenikos Philologikos Syllogos Inscription Corpus,               Ancient Inscriptions from IstanbulIt is known many educational, intellectual and cultural societies were found in Anatolia and in Thrace during the reign of the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century. There were nearly thirty societies just in Istanbul in 1870s. Ὁ Ἐν Κωνσταντινουπόλει Ἑλληνικὸς Φιλολογικὸς σύλλογος (Hellenikos Philologikos Syllogos Konstantinoupoleos), i.e. The Greek Philological Society in Constantinople was perhaps the most important and outstanding one among them. On March 3, 1861, prominent Greeks of Constantinople including doctors, lawyers, writers, philologists and the one who had held the title of Ottoman pasha, coming together, talked about the establishment of an education society. A month later after this meeting they decided to do so, and on May 4 they proclaimed its foundation by a celebration. The Society which stated as its main function to make scientifical and educational researches, played an important role in the lives of Greek people of Istanbul in the last period of the Ottoman Empire. Therefore the work area of the Society included not only the Greek culture and literature, but also so many fields such as trade, medicine, physics, biology, archaeology...etc. Syllogos published a periodical of 23 volumes named Ἑλληνικὸς Φιλολογικὸς σύλλογος between the years 1863 and 1914. The subjects such as literature, education, economy, philosophy, geography, history, archaeology...etc. took place in this periodical. In some volumes of the periodical, there are research results about many ancient buildings and monuments some of which were lost or destroyed today. They not only registered archaeological monuments and historical artifacts but also copied and took inventories of the inscriptions which they were able to see on these buildings and monuments. One of them which is perhaps the only copy of an important manuscript, is registered today to the Semavi Eyice Library of Byzantine Researches Department of İstanbul Research Institute. This list comprises of 1270 inscriptions from different parts of the ancient world which were dated to between 4th century BC and 10th century AD. In this paper some important published Greek & Latin inscriptions of ancient Istanbul from this manuscript are being presented.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hüseyin Sami Öztürk and +1Bülent  Öztürk•  11  Greek Epigraphy, Byzantine Studies, Byzantine History, Latin EpigraphyUN 29 DE MAYO DE 1453 MOHAMMED II TOMA BIZANCIO (CONSTANTINOPLA) EXPANDIENDO EL IMPERIO OTOMANO SOBRE LA PENÍNSULA BALCÁNICAUn día como hoy, 29 de mayo de 1453, sucedió la Caída de Constantinopla. Después de diez siglos de guerras, derrotas y victorias, el Imperio Bizantino llegó a su fin cuando Constantinopla cayó ante los turcos otomanos en mayo de 1453. La... moreUn día como hoy, 29 de mayo de 1453, sucedió la Caída de Constantinopla. Después de diez siglos de guerras, derrotas y victorias, el Imperio Bizantino llegó a su fin cuando Constantinopla cayó ante los turcos otomanos en mayo de 1453. La caída de la ciudad envió ondas de choque en toda la cristiandad. El imperio bizantino había estado en declive desde un siglo atrás, pero seguía siendo un importante bastión de la Europa cristiana frente al Asia musulmana.Save to LibraryDownloadby Francis Figueroa•  7  Ottoman History, Turkish and Middle East Studies, Byzantine Studies, Byzantine HistoryLes déplacements du Prince dans l'Orient tardo-antiqueSave to LibraryDownloadby Sylvain Destephen•  18  Legitimacy and Authority, Late Antique and Byzantine History, Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Mobility/MobilitiesSecond epistle of Leo of Ochrid concerning AzymesHere is the second letter sent by Bishop Leo of Ochrid to the bishops of southern Italy. This and the third letter were lost until the 19th century. In this letter, Leo further expounds his typological and symbolic argument against the... moreHere is the second letter sent by Bishop Leo of Ochrid to the bishops of southern Italy. This and the third letter were lost until the 19th century. In this letter, Leo further expounds his typological and symbolic argument against the fittingness of unleavened bread in the eucharistic liturgy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joseph Ahmad•  15  Liturgy, Medieval Studies, Eastern Christianity, Greek colonies in Magna Graecia“To Have and To Have Not: Supply and Shortage in the Centres of the Late Antique World”, in: Material Culture and Well–Being in Byzantium (400–1453) 211–217.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dionysios Stathakopoulos•  3  Late Antiquity, Famine Studies, ConstantinopleИмператорските дворци на Константинопол през погледа на кръстоносците. – В: Уриил, бр. 16, 2019, Благоевград, 17-27.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kristiyan Laskov•  3  Crusades, Byzantine Studies, ConstantinopleBizans Kaçkınları - Runaway ByzantinesThis is an illustrated children’s book about the Byzantine Constantinople and its monuments, blended with a fantastic time travel of children from contemporary Istanbul. It narrates the adventures of İrem (a.k.a Irene), and her... moreThis is an illustrated children’s book about the Byzantine Constantinople and its monuments, blended with a fantastic time travel of children from contemporary Istanbul. It narrates the adventures of İrem (a.k.a Irene), and her schoolmates Ali and Ece, starting with their unusual discovery of the book "A Byzantine Journey with Augmented Reality Plus". After a few amazing time travels to captivating moments and spaces of Byzantine capital, they find themselves in the adventure of finding and rescuing the real owner of the book. However, this will be a difficult task, which would require the collaboration of a wider team, resulting in big surprises.Save to LibraryDownloadby Muzaffer Özgüleş•  16  History, Art History, Children's Literature, Children's and Young Adult LiteratureMedioevo in gioco. Prime riflessioni sul “secolo di ferro” nella più recente produzione videoludica, in Middle Ages without borders: a conversation on medievalism, T. Di Carpegna Falconieri, P. Savy, L. Yawn (dirr.)Rome : Publications de l’École française de Rome, 2021 (généré le 18 décembre 2021). Disponible sur Internet : <http://books.openedition.org/efr/28610>. ISBN : 9782728314942.Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonio Tagliente•  12  Byzantine Studies, Videogames, Constantinople, early Middle AgesThe Siege of Constantinople in 1453Ottoman history became an important component of universal history. The collapse of the Byzantine Empire marks a memorable historical event of the last Christian emperor, Constantine XI defeated by the Ottomans and effectively the end... moreOttoman history became an important component of universal history. The collapse of the  Byzantine Empire marks a memorable historical event of the last Christian emperor, Constantine  XI defeated by the Ottomans and effectively the end of the Roman Empire. The conquest of  Constantinople by Sultan Mehmed II was often studied by scholars from the international studies fields because of its impact on the modern world. As the inheritors of both Byzantine and the  Ottoman, it marked the ascendancy of the Ottomans as the preeminent dynasty while the city was considered the last stand of Christianity. The city withstands several attacks from the Ottomans troops and still remains standing until the last siege on May 29, 1453. The conquest of  Constantinople by Sultan Mehmed II has different narratives on the event, different eyewitnesses described the same event in very contradicting ways. This paper will examine the three eyewitnesses' views of the event and compare how they described the conquest of Constantinople according to their narrative. Nicolo Barbaro, mentioned in his primary source that was written during the event describes the attack from the Ottoman empire as brutal and murderous. While  Kritovoulos believes that the city belongs to Muslims. On the other hand, George Sphrantzes, a  courtier in the Byzantine empire, describes how brutal the event was and he feels compassion for the people of Constantinople.Save to LibraryDownloadby Farrorza Lim•  6  Ottoman History, Constantinople, Istanbul, the siege of Constantinople in 1453Importanța spațiului maritim în conflictele ruso-bizantine (sec. IX-XI), Buridava Nr.10/2012Save to LibraryDownloadby Mihai Dragnea•  38  Old Church Slavonic, Constantinople, Khazar archaeology and history, BizantinismGothic Christians in Constantinople in 4 th and 5 th century: The Nicene Christians and ChristianizationAt the turn of the 4 th and 5 th century the Goths represented a significant minority in Constantinople. Many of them were Christians of several confessions and apart from the Arian Goths and Psathyrians, we recognize Nicene believers... moreAt the turn of the 4 th and 5 th century the Goths represented a significant minority in Constantinople. Many of them were Christians of several confessions and apart from the Arian Goths and Psathyrians, we recognize Nicene believers there as well. They actively cooperated with representatives of the Episcopal see, especially with John Chrysostom and his companions, who vigorously Christianized barbarians inside and outside of the Empire. At the same time, the Constantinopolitan agents of the Church tried to convert the heretical barbarians to Nicene Christianity. This paper deals with the topic of Nicene Christian Goths in Constantinople and their interaction with representatives of the Nicene church. The topic of Arian Goths in Constantinople was presented in the previous issue of Graeco-Latina Brunensia (Jurík 2021).Save to LibraryDownloadby Mirón Jurík•  13  Ancient History, Early Christianity, Late Antiquity, Church History“Constructing and Deconstructing Sacred Space in Byzantine Constantinople,” in Sacred Spaces and Urban Networks, eds. S. Yalman and H. Uğurlu (Istanbul, 2019), 89-104.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Ousterhout•  3  Constantinople, Byzantine Art and Archaeolgy, Sacred SpaceSkarlatos Byzantios, Constantinople: an Annotated Translation,  vol 1, (excerpts)Written in 1851 – 1869, Skarlatos Byzantios' three-volume masterpiece constitutes a feat of 19th c. scholarship, presented here for the first time in an annotated English translation. Drawing on Classical, Byzantine, Western European and... moreWritten in 1851 – 1869, Skarlatos Byzantios' three-volume masterpiece constitutes a feat of 19th c. scholarship, presented here for the first time in an annotated English translation. Drawing on Classical, Byzantine, Western European and Ottoman sources, Constantinople covers a vast period of over two and a half millennia, from the mythical foundation of Byzantium to Skarlatos' own time. A true polyglot and a keen observer, Skarlatos guides the reader through the neighbourhoods, monuments and social practices of his native city, assisted by detailed references to major historical events, personalities and long-forgotten anecdotes. His scholarly interests span across an impressive array of disciplines: political and social history, literature, architecture, epigraphy, urban planning, demography, ethnography, art and folklore. Above all, Skarlatos is a self-avowed devotee of the City of cities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Haris Theodorelis-Rigas•  8  Ottoman History, Ottoman Studies, Byzantine Architecture, History of Ottoman Art and ArchitectureTranslation and Transformation of John Chrysostom's Urban Imagery into Old Church Slavonic. – Studia Ceranea 10, 2020, 63–82Available at: https://czasopisma.uni.lodz.pl/sceranea/article/view/8937 Abstract. John Chrysostom was not only one of the most prolific and influential authors of late antiquity but also a renown preacher, exegete, and... moreAvailable at: https://czasopisma.uni.lodz.pl/sceranea/article/view/8937Abstract.  John  Chrysostom  was  not  only  one  of  the  most  prolific  and  influential  authors  of  late  antiquity but also a renown preacher, exegete, and public figure. His homilies and sermons combined  the  classical  rhetorical  craft  with  some  vivid  imagery  from  everyday  life.  He  used  descriptions,  comparisons,  and  metaphors  that  were  both  a  rhetorical  device  and  a  reference  to  the  real  world familiar to his audience. From 9th century onwards, many of Chrysostom’s works were translated into Old Church Slavonic and were widely used for either private or communal reading. Even if they had lost the spontaneity of the oral performance, they still preserved the references to the 4th-century City, to the streets and the homes in a distant world, transferred into the 10th-century Bulgaria  and  beyond.  The  article  examines  how  some  of  these  urban  images  were  translated  and  sometimes adapted to the medieval Slavonic audience, how the realia and the figures of speech were rendered into the Slavonic language and culture. It is a survey on the reception of the oral sermon put into writing, and at the same time, it is a glimpse into the late antique everyday life in the East-ern Mediterranean.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aneta Dimitrova•  9  Reception Studies, Old Church Slavonic, Byzantine Studies, John ChrysostomMaometto Papa e Imperatorev INDICE Premessa ix Prologo. Intorno a Maometto il profeta 3 §1. Dove si apprende che Maometto, prima che profeta, am-biva essere papa di Roma, p. 3-§2. Dove si apprende che Maometto era gabellato per cristiano eretico e l'islam per un... morev INDICE Premessa ix Prologo. Intorno a Maometto il profeta 3 §1. Dove si apprende che Maometto, prima che profeta, am-biva essere papa di Roma, p. 3-§2. Dove si apprende che Maometto era gabellato per cristiano eretico e l'islam per un magma di eresie cristiane, p. 10-§3. A proposito di quei teologi bizantini che fra alto e basso medioevo si dilettavano a confrontare cristianesimo e islam, e ad insultarsi recipro-camente coi sapienti arabi, p. 14-§4. Si ragiona sulle con-clusioni di tanto pensare. Il rapido successo dei musulmani nel mondo si deve alla violenza e all'edonismo promossi dal Corano e suggeriti dal demonio, p. 17 I. La caduta di Costantinopoli, Mosca ' terza Roma' e le congiure dei pagani 23 §1. Dove Nestore Iskinder profetizza la caduta e il riscatto di Costantinopoli, liberamente interpretando la lotta fra un serpente e un'aquila al tempo di Costantino il Grande, p. 23-§2. Dio lo volle, non senza dolore, p. 24-§3. Enumerando utopie e distopie germinate fra i ruderi di Costantinopoli, p. 29-§4. Si spiega come sia mai possibile che in Europa da Carlo Magno in poi vi fossero due imperatori, entrambi romani, entrambi universali, p. 31-§5. Dove si ricorda la triste sorte dell'ultimo imperatore bizantino, Costantino XI Paleologo, mai incoronato secondo regola, e ci si pone il problema, non banale, dell'importanza dell'incoronazio-ne e della Chiesa nella nomina imperiale, p. 35-§6. «Due Rome sono cadute, una terza è e una quarta non sarà»: po-teva anche lo zar essere imperatore dei romani? E poteva Mosca essere la terza Roma a capo di un impero romanoSave to LibraryDownloadby Marco Cavina•  13  Early Modern History, Turkish History, History of Religions, Ottoman EmpireBasilica Cistern / Yerebatan Saray (Βασιλική Κιστέρνα / Γιερεμπαντάν Σαράι) The Basilica Cistern, also known as the “underground palace” (Yerebatan Saray), is the largest surviving Byzantine cistern in Istanbul. Located southwest of Hagia Sophia, this covered subterranean reservoir once held 78,000 m3 of water.... moreThe Basilica Cistern, also known as the “underground palace” (Yerebatan Saray), is the largest surviving Byzantine cistern in Istanbul. Located southwest of Hagia Sophia, this covered subterranean reservoir once held 78,000 m3 of water. Originally built under the no longer extant Stoa Basilica, the present structure of the eponymous cistern was rebuilt in the 6th century. It remains one of the most important and oldest public spaces in the city.Save to LibraryDownloadby jelena bogdanovic•  11  Art History, Vernacular Architecture, Architectural History, Byzantine StudiesAyvansaray’da Ortaya Çıkartılan Bir Bizans KilisesiSave to LibraryDownloadby Ü. Melda Ermiş•  3  Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Architecture, ConstantinopleOsman Hamdi Bey et la chronique "Orient" d'Adolphe Thalasso dans "L'Art et les Artistes" (1906-1914)De 1906 à 1914, la revue L’Art et les Artistes accueillit une chronique intitulée «Turquie», et parfois, plus explicitement, «Grèce & Turquie» ou «Égypte, Grèce & Turquie» — avant de se stabiliser sous le titre plus général d’«Orient». La... moreDe 1906 à 1914, la revue L’Art et les Artistes accueillit une chronique intitulée «Turquie», et parfois, plus explicitement, «Grèce & Turquie» ou «Égypte, Grèce & Turquie» — avant de se stabiliser sous le titre plus général d’«Orient». La première chronique, en mars 1906, fixe les grandes orientations de ce bulletin artistique jusqu’à la veille de la Première Guerre mondiale: en tout quatre-vingt-huit épisodes, sans compter les articles de plus vaste étendue qui donneront lieu à une monographie de leur auteur, Adolphe Thalasso, Grec d’Istanbul. Parenthèse exceptionnelle pour la réception en France des arts modernes et anciens de et dans l’Empire ottoman, la chronique de Thalasso, principalement archéologique à ses débuts, par la suite soucieuse de décrire l’émergence et l’affirmation d’une école turque de peinture, fait écho à la pensée d’Osman Hamdi Bey (1842-1910), fondateur de l’École des beaux-arts, du Musée archéologique d’Istanbul et peintre. In 1906, the magazine L’Art et les Artistes inaugurated a column called 'Turkey' or, more specifically, 'Greece and Turkey', 'Egypt, Greece and Turkey', before it adopted a wider label, 'Orient'. The first column, in March 1906, determined the main trends of this art bulletin, which went on till the First Word War: eighty eight papers were published, regardless of feature articles later published as monographs by the author, Adolphe Thalasso, born in a Greek family of Istanbul. These years represent an exceptional interlude in the French reception of the antique and modern arts produced or preserved in the Ottoman Empire. Thalasso’s column focused first primarily on archaeology, then on the emergence of a Turkish school of painting. One could find in his papers an echo of the concerns of Osman Hamdi Bey (1842-1910), painter and founder in Istanbul of the Archaeological Museum and of the School of Fine Arts.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sophie Basch•  23  Visual Studies, Art History, Ottoman History, Middle East StudiesKonstantinopel – Kaiserresidenz und künftige Hauptstadt.Save to LibraryDownloadby Franz Alto Bauer•  3  Late Antique and Byzantine Studies, Byzantine Studies, ConstantinopleIV krucjata na podstawie kronik Geoffroy’a de Villehardouin i Roberta de Clari. Jedno wydarzenie, różne spojrzenia.In 1198, Lothar of Sengi was elected Pope and took the name of Innocent III. His main objective was to organize a new crusade. The army of Crusaders was mobilized in 1199 by count Thibaut of Champagne. After his death, in 1201, he was... moreIn 1198, Lothar of Sengi was elected Pope and took the name of Innocent III. His main objective was to organize a new crusade. The army of Crusaders was mobilized in 1199 by count Thibaut of Champagne. After his death, in 1201, he was replaced by an Italian count, Boniface of Montferrat. The Crusaders chose Venetian fleet to transport them to the Holy Land and therefore signed a binding contract. However, it soon appeared that an insufficient quantity of knights influenced their capital. To postpone repayment of the debt, on their way to the Holy Land, the Crusaders were going to assist Venetian conquest of city Zadar. But instead, at the instigation of Alexios Angelus, they decided to return the throne to his father, Isaac II. Thus, the expedition arrived in Constantinople. Having managed to restore the throne, Alexius was crowned the Emperor. Despite the Crusaders’ help, the Emperor refused to pay dues promised to them. When conflict between the Crusaders and the inhabitants of Constantinople arose, the situation in the city deteriorated significantly. Riots erupted and that led Alexios Doukas to assassination of both Isaac and Alexius. The Crusaders responded by conquering the city on 12th April, 1204. Constantinople was plundered and on May 16th, 1204, the coronation of Baldwin I of Flanders took place. However, it was known that due to its significant lack of military force, the Latin Empire was not well protected at that time. The main antagonists of Baldwin I were Bulgarians and Greeks. The offensive of the Bulgarian Emperor took place. During the battle of Adrianople, April 14th, 1205, the Emperor Baldwin was captured. Since he was never released from captivity, his brother, Henry was chosen to be the new Emperor on August 20th, 1206. The Crusaders also fought with Theodore Laskaris, the creator of the Empire of Nicaea. Boniface of Montferrat, the leader of the crusade, died in 1207. During the period between 1209-1211, Latin Emperor Henry defeated all enemies and parleyed both with the Bulgarians and Theodore Laskaris, allowing to consolidate a new state. During Henry’s reign, Latin Empire reached its peak, both territorially and militarily. A gradual collapse of the Empire began with his death in 1216 to finally occur in 1261. Two western chroniclers who participated in the IV Crusade, Geoffrey of Villehardouin, Marshal of Champagne and of Romania and knight from Picardy Robert de Clari, documented the expedition. The story told by the Marshal of Champagne is a chronicle of altruistic deeds of great men who directed the expedition, while the second one is a history of the campaign, which includes all of its shortcomings and difficulties.Save to LibraryDownloadby Grzesiek Wieszołek•  7  Crusades, Venetian History, Constantinople, Fourth CrusadeThe Begotten-Not-Made Distinction in the Eastern Pro-NicenesThe Nicene–Constantinopolitan profession that the Son of God is begotten, not made, presents the tension that the Son is caused by God but not created. This claim was a point of controversy in the semi-Arian and Eunomian/Anomean disputes... moreThe Nicene–Constantinopolitan profession that the Son of God is begotten, not made, presents the tension that the Son is caused by God but not created. This claim was a point of controversy in the semi-Arian and Eunomian/Anomean disputes of the fourth century. The latter argued that unoriginateness is central to divinity. Hence, the Son, being originate, cannot be of the same nature as the Father. Some philosophers of religion today echo this same conclusion. In this article, I show, contrary to both ancient and modern critics of the begotten-not-made distinction, that the Eastern fathers offer clear differences between begetting and creating, which clarify why the distinction is cogent and necessary within their metaphysics. NOTE: The attached PDF is of the author MS, not the journal proofs. However, the author has formatted the MS to ensure that its pagination coincides with the supplied proofs of the published version. The published essay appears in Religious Studies in 2018.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nathan A. Jacobs•  22  Christianity, Early Christianity, Orthodox Theology, Russian Orthodox Church“Yeni Arkeolojik Araştırmalar Işığında İstanbul’un (Tarihi Yarımada) Neolitik, Kalkolitik ve Demir Çağı Kültürleri Üzerine Genel Değerlendirmeler”, Vakıf Restorasyon Yıllığı 2. Restorasyon, Konservasyon, Arkeoloji, Sanat, İstanbul: 19-25.Save to LibraryDownloadby Şevket Dönmez•  34  Historical Geography, Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, Historical ArchaeologyThe Generation around John Koukouzeles and the Re-Definition of the Constantinopolitan Tradition by the “Koukouzelian” ReformAfter the return of the Court and the Patriarchate from the exile of Nikaia, the local tradition of the cathedral rite was not continued. The Byzantine tonal system according to a common understanding taught by the Papadike was defi ned... moreAfter the return of the Court and the Patriarchate from the exile of Nikaia, the local tradition of the cathedral rite was not continued. The Byzantine tonal system according to a common understanding taught by the Papadike was defi ned according to the Koukouzelian wheel which was based on fi fth equivalence (the trochos system and the practice of parallage) and deeply rooted in the Middle Byzantine notation and the chant books Sticherarion and the Heirmologion. Since John Koukouzeles’ Mega Ison as a method to teach all notational signs did not change the notation system, but rather exploited a former synthesis to transcribe the chant books of the cathedral rite (Asmatikon and Kontakarion-Psaltikon) with the notation of the Sticherarion, the synthesis of all chant books within one universal notation system was well prepared and this preparation motivated Christian Troelsgård to abandon the distinction of Middle from Late Byzantine notation. It was also the basis of the integrative role of Papadic teaching which was continued until the 19th century and the integration of the practice of cheironomia in Koukouzeles’ theory of the great signs. According to the new theory of Papadike, the Hagiopolitan oktoechos was the universal tonal system which had to integrate also the Constantinopolitan tradition of the cathedral rite. This synthesis is also the basic understanding of the Byzantine tonal system since its description by Oliver Strunk in 1942. The current understanding of the heritage of Byzantine chant is so deeply rooted on the Papadic synthesis of the 14th century that it lacks a proper understanding of the preceding tradition which was unified by the synthesis. This essay is focussed on the kalophonic melos concerned with the repertoire of the kontakia and its modal transformation.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oliver Gerlach•  14  Music History, Byzantine Studies, History of Music Theory, Byzantine MusicOmilia Sfântului Ioan Gură de Aur Despre reprimirea lui Severian / John Chrysostom, De recipiendo Severiano (CPG 4395)The homily De recipiendo Severiano (CPG 4395) is one of the chrysostomic sermons with an undeniable authenticity that gives us an insight of his conflict with Severian, bishop of Gabala. Under the pretext of proclaiming the peace John... moreThe homily De recipiendo Severiano (CPG 4395) is one of the chrysostomic sermons with an undeniable authenticity that gives us an insight of his conflict with Severian, bishop of Gabala. Under the pretext of proclaiming the peace John Chrysostom actually warns his community about the schemes of Severian and buils a new demonstration of strenght in order to prevent further attacks from Severian's sustainers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dragos Boicu•  7  Patristics, John Chrysostom, Homiletics, ConstantinopleConstantinople’s Dedication Medallions and the Maintenance of Civic Traditions. (2012: Lars Ramskold, Noel Lenski. Numismatische Zeitschrift, Vol. 119, pp. 31-58)""Two related types of silver medallions appear to have been struck for the dedication of Constantinople on 11 May 330 A.D. The first, whose reverse depicts a seated figure of Constantinopolis, has been widely catalogued in numismatic... more""Two related types of silver medallions appear to have been struck for the dedication of Constantinople on11 May 330 A.D. The first, whose reverse depicts a seated figure of Constantinopolis, has been widely catalogued in numismatic literature.1 The second, whose reverse depicts the Dea Roma, has not. This article presents a catalogue of the known exemplars of both types: 15 of the first and 3 of the second. It proposes that these were struck to imitate the tetradrachms of Hellenistic rulers. This conclusion is based on six factors: 1) the average weight and module match those of Hellenistic tetradrachms; 2) the medallion is struck in silver; 3) the thickness and high relief mirror those of tetradrachms; 4) the obverse is anepigraphic with the head cropped high on the neck; 5) the format of the reverse legend is typical of tetradrachms, and the image of Tyche was common on them; 6) Constantine wears a diadem, a revival of a royal accoutrement typical of Hellenistic monarchs. In addition, the argument will be made that these issues constitute something of abrief return to the tradition of civic coinage.This is argued first because civic coinages, including the coins of Roman imperial Byzantium, regularly represent city Tychai, and secondly, because this type appears to have been issued only from the mint of a single city,a highly unusual restriction in the fourth century AD. The medallion can be viewed as valuable iconographic evidence for the cult of Constantinople’s Tyche established by Constantine and of his interest in maintaining Hellenic religious traditions and promoting his new capital as a second Rome.""Save to LibraryDownloadby Lars  Ramskold•  9  Roman History, Hellenistic History, Byzantine Studies, Late AntiquityNextLast »Related TopicsByzantine StudiesFollowFollowingByzantine HistoryFollowFollowingByzantine artFollowFollowingLate Antique and Byzantine HistoryFollowFollowingLate Antique and Byzantine StudiesFollowFollowingByzantine ArchaeologyFollowFollowingLate AntiquityFollowFollowingByzantine ArchitectureFollowFollowingByzantiumFollowFollowingByzantine IconographyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023