Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation8,567 FollowersRecent papers in Archaeology of Beer and Cereal FermentationPapersPeopleA Procedure to Determine the Germination Period for Optimum Amylase Activity in Maize Malt Crude Extracts for the Artisanal Production of Maltose Syrup from Fresh Cassava StarchThe study describes a timed colorimetric coupled enzyme assay for determination of amylase activity using starch as substrate. The method is simple for use by artisans to determine germination period for optimum amylase activity in maize... moreThe study describes a timed colorimetric coupled enzyme assay for determination of amylase activity using starch as substrate. The method is simple for use by artisans to determine germination period for optimum amylase activity in maize malt crude extracts for maltose syrup production. The activity of amylase enzyme which released Glucose from standard starch solution is estimated by timing the decolourisation of standard acid permanganate solution by the released glucose. The germination period for optimum amylase activity in maize malt crude extracts from batches of Obaatanpa-Pokuase, Obaatanpa-Fumesua, Obaatanpa-MOFA, Mamaba and Golden Jubilee local maize having germinative capacities ≥ 90% were determined. Peak periods (P1 and P2) of amylase activity occurred; on germination days 4 and 9 for Obaatanpa-Pokuase, and 5 and 10 for the other varieties. Decolourisation rates at P2 were 1.51 - 2.01 faster than at P1 with Obaatanpa-MOFA having the fastest decolourisation rate at P2. Ob...Save to LibraryDownloadby Sylvester ACHIO•  7  Chemistry, Food Science, Starch, Food Science and TechnologyA First Draught: Pitfalls and Potentials in the Archaeological Chemistry of BeerThis chapter offers a critical review of previous work on the archaeological chemistry of beer and considers promising avenues for future investigation. After providing an overview of methodological concerns germane to a wide range of... moreThis chapter offers a critical review of previous work on the archaeological chemistry of beer and considers promising avenues for future investigation. After providing an overview of methodological concerns germane to a wide range of potential beer residues, the status of the most commonly used marker, calcium oxalate, is discussed. By considering literature from chemistry, botany, and brewing studies, it is demonstrated that calcium oxalate alone is not sufficiently diagnostic, but that proteomic analysis on potential beerstone residues may offer a more compelling approach. Other studies addressing suites of compounds used for beer identification are similarly critiqued to illustrate the difficulty of identifying ancient beer using analytical chemistry. The chapter concludes by exploring potential chemical markers that might signify certain beer ingredients, namely markers for certain grains and fermentative cultures. Each marker is subjected to a critical review and, ultimately, we assess whether it is possible to use such markers in tandem with other data points from morpho-technological or archaeobotanical analyses to hypothesize a plausible beer association. Ultimately, we stress the need for multidisciplinary communication and increased experimental work with both replica and ethnographic materials to better understand the creation, preservation, transformation, and degradation of the various residues associated with beer.Save to LibraryDownloadby Josh Driscoll and +1Jacob C. Damm•  2  Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Archaeological ChemistryDriscoll Thesis Front MatterSave to LibraryDownloadby Josh Driscoll•  10  Archaeobotany, Celts (Archaeology), Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Archaeological ChemistryArqueobotànica de l'ordi vestit (Hordeum vulgare L.): el graner fortificat de Sant Esteve d'Olius (Olius, Solsonès)(s. III ane)Résumé/Abstract La récente découverte d&#x27;une exceptionnelle concentration de graines carbonisées d&#x27;orge vêtue (Hordeum vulgare L.), localisée dans une fosse de ce site de la période l&#x27;Ibérique pleine montrant une claire... moreRésumé/Abstract La récente découverte d&#x27;une exceptionnelle concentration de graines carbonisées d&#x27;orge vêtue (Hordeum vulgare L.), localisée dans une fosse de ce site de la période l&#x27;Ibérique pleine montrant une claire fonctionnalité d&#x27;entreposage d&#x27;excédent ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Reyes•  17  Geography, Archaeobotany, Agriculture, Archaeology of Beer and Cereal FermentationCerveza Prehistórica. Estado de la cuestiónThe recent discoveries in the Middle East and China allow us to presuppose brewing in the Iberian Peninsula since the arrival of the Neolithic package with already domesticated cereals. We can go back to the Middle Neolithic I to find the... moreThe recent discoveries in the Middle East and China allow us to presuppose brewing in the Iberian Peninsula since the arrival of the Neolithic package with already domesticated cereals. We can go back to the Middle Neolithic I to find the oldest testimony (Can Sadurní, Begues). A large number of bell-shaped deposits, especially in the Duero and Tagus basins, indicate its presence that continued during the Bronze Age until reaching the Iberian period, suggesting that its production and consumption was widespread during recent peninsular prehistory. The circumstance that most of the analyzes were carried out by the same research team leads to a probably biased map that should be reviewed in a joint research project aimed at analyzing the problem and carrying out a good number of residues analyzes that allow verifying whether the consumption of beer, even if it was of a ritual nature, was general and from what moment did this phenomenon occur.Save to LibraryDownloadby João Luís Cardoso•  10  Agriculture, Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Malting, CerealsLa vaisselle de bronze à Mari à l'époque amorriteLe but de ce travail etait d’etablir le riche vocabulaire akkadien de l’orfevrerie du XVIIIe siecle amorrite. Pour ce faire, j’ai edite ou reedite des documents administratifs trouves dans le celebre palais de Mari (pour l’essentiel lors... moreLe but de ce travail etait d’etablir le riche vocabulaire akkadien de l’orfevrerie du XVIIIe siecle amorrite. Pour ce faire, j’ai edite ou reedite des documents administratifs trouves dans le celebre palais de Mari (pour l’essentiel lors des campagnes de fouilles d’A. Parrot). J’ai entrepris une enquete archivistique et prosopographique pour tenter de cerner le plus possible le contexte historique des occurrences lexicales (noms des vases ou de leurs parties) pour eviter de tomber dans une stricte enquete philologique et ne pas me limiter a des speculations etymologiques qui sans le support de l’histoire risquent toujours d’etre hasardeuses. Il est evident que la difficulte majeure d’une telle approche est d’etudier des realia a partir uniquement de donnees ecrites, qui se resument pour l’essentiel a des listes abconses et desordonnees. Ce travail “en aveugle” ne peut qu’etre un premier pas necessitant d’etre corrige par les nouvelles donnees epigraphiques et le renouvellement de la...Save to LibraryDownloadby michaël  Guichard•  2  Art, BronzeWaste disposal processes and landfill management in Late Bronze Age inner periphery of the central Europe: Březnice settlement site (South Bohemia)Waste disposal processes and landfill management are crucial subjects in the field of settlement archaeology. Our study is focused on the reconstruction of the community economy in the context of the Late Bronze Age; understanding the... moreWaste disposal processes and landfill management are crucial subjects in the field of settlement archaeology. Our study is focused on the reconstruction of the community economy in the context of the Late Bronze Age; understanding the processes that led to the filling of these features; reconstruction of the recycling system of building materials (daub and wood) and the waste management. These research questions were addressed based on plant macroremains, charcoals, phytoliths, starch, micromorphology, phosphates and magnetic volume susceptibility. The results showed the waste character of features infills which reflected specific economy and habitats around the single households. The composition of the archaeobotanical assemblages was not determined by the type of feature, however similarities in the plant spectra could often be observed in the infill of features that were located close to each other. Charred remains of firewood inside the assemblages, also contained a proportion o...Save to LibraryDownloadby Martin Kuna•  5  Archaeology, Bronze Age, Firewood, Root-Mean Square ErrorUnderworld Mythologies of the Orkney IslandsThis paper explores Neolithic structures and iconographies of the Scotland’s Orkney Islands in connection with mythologies of the underworld and goddess worship. As a point of focus, this paper examines the mythological ramifications of... moreThis paper explores Neolithic structures and iconographies of the Scotland’s Orkney Islands in connection with mythologies of the underworld and goddess worship. As a point of focus, this paper examines the mythological ramifications of the “Orkney Venuses” unearthed at the Links of Noltland on Westray, as well as the stone decorations within dwellings at the Ness of Brodgar on Mainland island, which display the “largest known grouping of decorated architectural stone from Orkney” (Card and Thomas 114, Thomas 150). The author suggests connections between Orkney Island stone building block etchings and figurines and mythologies of Neolithic underworld with syncretic devotion of the divine feminine. With a focus upon the process-based transformation of objects and constructions, the author draws inspiration from a Ritual Theory framework to examine the role of ritual transformation in mythologies tying mythemes of the divine feminine and the underworld together.Save to LibraryDownloadby Charlotte C Moroz•  3  Mythology And Folklore, Ancient myth and religion, Comparative mythologySalvatori_1995_Protohistoric Margiana: on a recent contribution (REVIEW OF: "IASCCA (INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE STUDY OF THE CULTURES OF CENTRAL ASIA) INFORMATION BULLETIN" 19, MOSCOW 1993In the last fifteen years ex-Soviet Central Asia raised to the role of a privileged archaeological area thanks to the growing interest of international scholarly community. This was surely due to the closing to archaeological research,... moreIn the last fifteen years ex-Soviet Central Asia raised to the role of a privileged archaeological area thanks to the growing interest of international scholarly community. This was surely due to the closing to archaeological research, since that time, of culturally and historically important large Central Asia regions like Eastern Iran and Afghanistan.Save to LibraryDownloadby TAP - Togolok Archaeological Project•Combining alcohol-free beer and vodka: an empirical study on the drinkability of an unusual mixBeer is a popular alcoholic beverage made from water, malted cereals, hops, and yeast. Due to different enzymatic reactions and microbial activity during fermentation the final taste and aroma of beer is achieved (Thesseling, 2019). The... moreBeer is a popular alcoholic beverage made from water, malted cereals, hops, and yeast. Due to different enzymatic reactions and microbial activity during fermentation the final taste and aroma of beer is achieved (Thesseling, 2019). The alcohol content of beer can range from less than 1% to over 15%, with the typical beer containing about 5% alcohol by volume (Logan, 1999). In Germany, beer is deeply ingrained in the culture and is one of the most commonly consumed alcoholic beverages. According to a survey analyzing data from 1950-2022, one German person drinks an average of 92L beer in a year (Statista, 2023). For several years, Julian Schulz has included alcohol-free beer mixed with vodka as a special drink on several invitations, like his birthday parties or even his wedding. However, it has never been determined which combination of vodka and beer results in a drinkable and enjoyable beverage. In a double-blinded experiment, we investigated which combination of alcohol-free beer and vodka leads to such a beverage. The results suggest that the combination of Löwenbräu and Gorbatschow Vodka is drinkable. At the same time it has to be said that drinkable doesn't imply the mixture tastes like beer. Therefore more research has to be carried out to find out which chemical processes take place to achieve the typical beer taste on the one hand and how the beer is made alcohol-free on the other hand. In another empirical study it would be interesting to investigate further mixtures of more companies with a larger group of participants.(This is an article for a wedding newspaper; don't take it too serious ;))Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabian Bross and +1Anna K. Fuchs•  2  Alcohol Studies, Beer (Alcohol Studies)Beer from the early dynasties (3500–3400 cal B.C.) of Upper Egypt, detected by archaeochemical methodsSave to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr. Wafaa Amer•  7  Archaeology, Geology, Chemistry, EcologyDesign and production of maize beerSave to LibraryDownloadby Maxim Mironov•  4  Business, Food Processing, Production economics, Food Storage[Alcohol congeners and their implications for medicolegal assessment of drunkeness]Ethanol is the main psychoactive ingredient of alcoholic beverages. Together with water it makes their major part. The other substances contained in alcoholic beverages are called congeners. Some of them come from the original substance... moreEthanol is the main psychoactive ingredient of alcoholic beverages. Together with water it makes their major part. The other substances contained in alcoholic beverages are called congeners. Some of them come from the original substance of the beverage, some come from the fermentation or mellowing process. Except giving the drink its specific taste, scent and colour, congeners also have a non-negligible direct influence on the alcohol consumer. Nowadays, methods of identification thousands of alcohol congeners are available. Analyzing chemical compounds of alcoholic beverages have only recently gained its importance, when it helped to estimate the basic chemical composition of the particular alcoholic beverages. Mentioned method is able to identify an exact type of alcoholic beverage which a man consumed before the blood sample necessary for the detection had been taken from him. It becomes irreplaceable especially in forensic assessment of the drunkenness in case an alcoholised per...Save to LibraryDownloadby František Novomeský•  4  Medicine, Forensic Toxicology, Alcohol, Driving Under the InfluenceCHEERS! Beer and Brewing in the PastFrom 22nd to 27th May 2023 the Cambridge Beer Festival will be held after a threeyear hiatus. Organised by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA), it is the UK's longest running and one of the largest regional beer festivals, featuring a wide... moreFrom 22nd to 27th May 2023 the Cambridge Beer Festival will be held after a threeyear hiatus. Organised by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA), it is the UK's longest running and one of the largest regional beer festivals, featuring a wide range of local and national beers of all styles. The Digital Lab, a digital engagement project at the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology and the McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research wish to join in with the cheerful mood of the city hosting an interdisciplinary seminar that will explore beer brewing in the past. The presentations and discussions at this half-day conference will centre around beer, its long history, and its importance in past societies. The event will conclude with a beer tasting session.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elisa Guerra Doce•  7  Prehistoric Archaeology, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), History of Alcohol and Drug Use, Archaeology of Beer and Cereal FermentationCHEERS! Beer and Brewing in the PastFrom 22nd to 27th May 2023 the Cambridge Beer Festival will be held after a three-year hiatus. Organised by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA), it is the UK'slongest running and one of the largest regional beer festivals, featuring a... moreFrom 22nd to 27th May 2023 the Cambridge Beer Festival will be held after a three-year hiatus. Organised by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA), it is the UK'slongest running and one of the largest regional beer festivals, featuring a widerange of local and national beers of all styles.The Digital Lab, a digital engagement project at the Museum of Archaeology andAnthropology and the McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research wish tojoin in with the cheerful mood of the city hosting an interdisciplinary seminarthat will explore beer brewing in the past.The presentations and discussions at this half-day conference will centre aroundbeer, its long history, and its importance in past societies. The event will concludewith a beer tasting session.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elisa Guerra Doce•  9  Prehistoric Archaeology, Iron Age Britain (Archaeology), Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), History of Alcohol and Drug UseWorkshop "Beer Cultures in Bronze Age Mesopotamia: Practices, Traditions, and Trajectories" (13th ICAANE)Workshop held on Wednesday, May 24, 2023 within the 13th International Congress on the Archaeology of the Ancient Near East (Copenhagen, Denmark). This workshop explores the evidence for beer cultures in Bronze Age Mesopotamia, that... moreWorkshop held on Wednesday, May 24, 2023 within the 13th International Congress on the Archaeology of the Ancient Near East (Copenhagen, Denmark). This workshop explores the evidence for beer cultures in Bronze Age Mesopotamia, that is, distinctive ways of making, drinking, appreciating, and understanding beer. Decades of painstaking research into the production and consumption of beer in Mesopotamia have laid a solid foundation, and the time is now ripe for a detailed consideration of variability in space and time. It has long been clear that the beer scene was neither homogeneous nor static across the millennia of Mesopotamian history, but only rarely has the archaeological and written evidence been brought to bear on this issue in a detailed and sustained fashion. This workshop aims to take a first step toward recognizing the diversity of brewing and drinking cultures in ancient Mesopotamia. To this end, we ask participants to focus their attention on the people behind the artifacts and texts: on practices, customs, conventions, bodies of knowledge, routines, rules of thumb, preferences, movements, gestures, techniques, and traditions. We envision a multidisciplinary conversation that brings archaeologists, Assyriologists, and art historians together into productive dialogue, with an eye toward possibilities for collaboration.Save to LibraryDownloadby Melania Zingarello and +1Tate Paulette•  7  Near Eastern Archaeology, Near Eastern Studies, Beer (Alcohol Studies), Archaeology of Beer and Cereal FermentationOpomíjené obilniny a pseudoobilninySave to LibraryDownloadby Martin Kas•Transnational cooperation to develop local barley to beer value chainsTransnational cooperation is a common strategy for addressing research and development (R&D) issues resulting from similar challenges that cut across administrative borders. Value chains for food and drinks are complex, and... moreTransnational cooperation is a common strategy for addressing research and development (R&D) issues resulting from similar challenges that cut across administrative borders. Value chains for food and drinks are complex, and transdisciplinary work is recognised as a method for solving complex issues. The Northern Cereals project ran from 2015 to 2018, and its goal was to increase cereal production and the value of grain products in four regions in the Northern Periphery programme area. The project included both R&D, but the main emphasis was on development, and was carried out by transdisciplinary cooperation between R&D partners and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). By reviewing the project’s methods, outcomes and composition, we discuss if a framework of transnational and transdisciplinary cooperation can help to develop the value chain from local barley to beer. We found that transnational cooperation was achieved successfully, that stakeholder involvement was crucial, bu...Save to LibraryDownloadby Mette Goul Thomsen•  3  Political Science, Production economics, StakeholderYou are What You Eat and What You Drink.   Animals, Plants and Objects as Markers of Cultures   – the Hop and the Mysterious “Little Spades”By following the route of a plant – hop – and the tools used for its processing over thousands of years, we search for answers to the question whether there is such a group or combination of phenomena that goes beyond the direct... moreBy following the route of a plant – hop – and the tools used for its processing over thousands of years, we search for answers to the question whether there is such a group or combination of phenomena that goes beyond the direct connections between man and his environment and the practical elements of farming and the way of life. Are there any among them – and which ones are these – whose appearance is understandable only in the context of  direct relations with remote areas or cultural traditions that persistently survived? We are looking for such additional markers that – similarly to the astragalus bones or the deer with bound legs – may in themselves or in their combinations provide additional clues for a more accurate evaluation of our ceramic or metal finds and for shedding light to further historic connections and a web of relations. Common hop, among all plants, seems to be especially suitable for this. It is native to Eastern Europe and one of our most sacred plants, respected for thousands of years and used for beer brewing. Following the route of two mysterious objects used for so far unknown purposes, found in several eras in graves usually rich and containing arms and harnesses, called little spades/spatulas in the steppes, and ritual axes in the Etruscanmaterial, we managed to determine their possible function. The appliances and customs related to the tradition of the brewing and consumption of hop beer, closely connected with the people of Iran, well indicate theeffects of a more or less extensive movement of people in the steppe areas over a significant part of Europe, which can be followed from the Bronze Age, and which is reflected in the burial, eating and drinking habitsof even the most traditional areas, which suggests more than the mere use of imported objects in the culture.Save to LibraryDownloadby Géza  Szabó•  5  Iranian Studies, Caucasus, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Archaeology of Beer and Cereal FermentationLes différentes techniques de brasserie en Egypte ancienneCOLLOQUE INTERNATIONAL PLURIDISCIPLINAIRE. Saverne, du 5 au 8 Juin 2023 En Égypte ancienne, le brassage de la bière est une activité bien documentée grâce à la riche iconographie issue des tombes et aux légendes hiéroglyphiques qui... moreCOLLOQUE INTERNATIONAL PLURIDISCIPLINAIRE.Saverne, du 5 au 8 Juin 2023 En Égypte ancienne, le brassage de la bière est une activité bien documentée grâce à la riche iconographie issue des tombes et aux légendes hiéroglyphiques qui accompagnent ces scènes. Cependant, ces représentations sont extrêmement normées et ne montrent que quelques étapes de la chaîne opératoire. Le recours aux données archéologiques est donc nécessaire. Les plus anciens vestiges d’activités de brasserie ont été découverts à Abydos, Tell el-Farkha et Hiérakonpolis et datent de la période Naqada IC-IIB (3800-3600 BCE). Il s’agit de grandes cuves semi-enterrée et supportées par des chenets en terre cuite. Les analyses menées sur les résidus organiques indiquent l’usage de plusieurs variétés de céréales germées. Ces installations de brassage témoignent donc d’une production communautaire massive et complexe dès les hautes périodes de l’histoire pharaonique. Au contraire, pour l’époque pharaonique, aucune installation de brassage n’a été découverte. Seules des céramiques mobiles, des grandes cuves à bec verseur, signalent la présence de cette activité.Cette communication démontrera que la brasserie égyptienne était un processus complexe, bien différent de la production de la bouza moderne. Elle s’interrogera aussi sur l’évolution des chaînes opératoires, et plus particulièrement sur la disparition des grandes cuves de brassage très bien attestées entre 3800 et 3100 BCE.Save to LibraryDownloadby Adeline Bats•  3  Egyptology, Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Cultural history of beerEating local, drinking imported: Chicha recipes, emulative desire, and identity formation at Atalla, Huancavelica, PeruSave to LibraryDownloadby Michelle E Young•  7  Archaeology, Andean Archaeology, Social Identity, PaleoethnobotanyFERMENTASI BUAH JAMBU UNTUK PEMBUATAN ALKOHOL DENGAN BANTUAN SACHAROMYCES CEREVISIAECashew fruit appareance has been research and have sugar contents 9.67 %. With that sugar contents is probability to used as raw material to production alcohol. The purpose of this resarch is to make alcohol form cashew fruit appareance... moreCashew fruit appareance has been research and have sugar contents 9.67 %. With that sugar contents is probability to used as raw material to production alcohol. The purpose of this resarch is to make alcohol form cashew fruit appareance and kamir sacharomices with fermentation process. Process is operate with ferment concentrate cashew fruit to fermentation bottle with added khamir sacharomices. After approriate with condition that we want so process stoped and analyze result Variable that used is fermentation time and inokulum content. This research can conclude that the best result is get from fermentation time = 60 hours, inokulum content = 6 % and alcohol content as 14.98 %.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rayhan Faril•FermentationMarktübersicht: Palmöl in LebensmittelnBackground & Objectives: This Master&#39;s thesis deals with the proportion of foods that contain palm oil and their palm oil content in Austrian supermarkets. Palm oil is the world&#39;s most significant vegetable oil. Oil palm... moreBackground & Objectives: This Master&#39;s thesis deals with the proportion of foods that contain palm oil and their palm oil content in Austrian supermarkets. Palm oil is the world&#39;s most significant vegetable oil. Oil palm plantations contribute 32% to global oil and fat production, but account only for 5.5% of global acreage [Awalludin et al., 2015]. Therefore, the oil palm is considered the most productive edible oil plant in the world. Palm oil has a wide range of uses. It is found not only in food but also in numerous non-food products such as soap or biofuel [Mba, Dumont and Ngadi, 2015]. Due to the versatile and frequent use of palm oil, the aim of this master thesis was to identify and later quantify foods which contain palm oil. Methods: Within the scope of this master thesis a market analysis was carried out in the online shops of Austrian supermarkets, namely &quot;BILLA AG&quot;, &quot;Merkur Warenhandels AG&quot; and &quot;Interspar Österreich&quot;. The aim of the...Save to LibraryDownloadby Lisa Ehardt•Local Actions to Tackle a Global Problem: A Multidimensional Assessment of the Pollination Crisis in ChileIn the last decades, pollinators have drastically declined as a consequence of anthropogenic activities that have local and global impacts. The food industry has been expanding intensive agriculture crops, many of them dependent on animal... moreIn the last decades, pollinators have drastically declined as a consequence of anthropogenic activities that have local and global impacts. The food industry has been expanding intensive agriculture crops, many of them dependent on animal pollination, but simultaneously reducing native pollinator habitats. Chile is a good example of this situation. Chile is becoming an agro-alimentary powerhouse in Latin America, where intensive agriculture expansion is performed at the expense of natural lands, posing a major threat to biodiversity. Here, we discussed the drivers responsible for the decline of pollinators (including habitat loss, pesticides, invasive species, and climate change) and its synergistic effects. This is particularly critical considering that Chile is a hotspot of endemic bee species locally adapted to specific habitats (e.g., Mediterranean-type ecosystems). However, there is a lack of data and monitoring programs that can provide evidence of their conservation status an...Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlos Valdivia•  16  Geography, Ecosystem Services, Diversity, AgroforestryFuente Amarguilla-Cortijo Nuevo: espacios productivos del Sureste Peninsular en la Edad del BronceE n est e trabaj o s e e xpone n la s principale s apo r tacione s de l estudi o de l yacimient o Fuente Amarguilla-Cortijo Nuevo situado en Almeria. En las excavaciones realizadas en 1977 y 1997 se documentaron restos arqueologicos... moreE n est e trabaj o s e e xpone n la s principale s apo r tacione s de l estudi o de l yacimient o Fuente Amarguilla-Cortijo Nuevo situado en Almeria. En las excavaciones realizadas en 1977 y 1997 se documentaron restos arqueologicos singulares que hasta ahora han permanecido ineditos. Este articulo presenta una sintesis del estudio de los conjuntos materiales y documentacion grafica del yacimiento. Se plantea la existencia de un espacio funcional dedicado al almacenamiento y procesado de productos alimenticios, posiblemente cereal. El analisis realizado sobre los restos arqueologicos evidencia la ausencia de referentes cercanos. La interpretacion de su funcionalidad y la recuperacion de la entidad arqueologica del yacimiento se ha realizado con el apoyo de una serie de analiticas que respaldan las hipotesis presentadas. Los analisis de C14 situan al yacimiento en momentos finales de la cultura argarica y posteriores.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ana D. Navarro Ortega•  15  Prehistoric Archaeology, Humanities, Art, Mediterranean prehistoryLocal Actions to Tackle a Global Problem: A Multidimensional Assessment of the Pollination Crisis in ChileIn the last decades, pollinators have drastically declined as a consequence of anthropogenic activities that have local and global impacts. The food industry has been expanding intensive agriculture crops, many of them dependent on animal... moreIn the last decades, pollinators have drastically declined as a consequence of anthropogenic activities that have local and global impacts. The food industry has been expanding intensive agriculture crops, many of them dependent on animal pollination, but simultaneously reducing native pollinator habitats. Chile is a good example of this situation. Chile is becoming an agro-alimentary powerhouse in Latin America, where intensive agriculture expansion is performed at the expense of natural lands, posing a major threat to biodiversity. Here, we discussed the drivers responsible for the decline of pollinators (including habitat loss, pesticides, invasive species, and climate change) and its synergistic effects. This is particularly critical considering that Chile is a hotspot of endemic bee species locally adapted to specific habitats (e.g., Mediterranean-type ecosystems). However, there is a lack of data and monitoring programs that can provide evidence of their conservation status an...Save to LibraryDownloadby Lorena Vieli•  16  Geography, Ecosystem Services, Diversity, AgroforestryPlan de marketing : Cervecería FonckFil: Padilla, Marcos. Universidad de San Andrés. Escuela de Negocios; Argentina.Regueiro, DiegSave to LibraryDownloadby Marcos Padilla•nápoje z piva Calculation of Extracts of Beer-Mixed DrinksSave to LibraryDownloadby Petr Košin•CAUIM -BRAZILIAN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE Cauim finally foreseen in law as a Brazilian BeverageCauim, the alcoholic beverage made from fermented mandioca, a type of Brazilian cassava, is finally considered by law as a Brazilian beverage due to a legislative public consultation on April 14, 2022, for a period of 90 days, on the... moreCauim, the alcoholic beverage made from fermented mandioca, a type of Brazilian cassava, is finally considered by law as a Brazilian beverage due to a legislative public consultation on April 14, 2022, for a period of 90 days, on the revision of Decree No. 6,871, of June 4, 2009, which regulates Brazilian Law No. 8,918, of July 14, 1994, which provides on the standardization, classification, registration, inspection, production and inspection of beverages.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luiz Pagano•  4  Indigenous Studies, Brasilian Culture, Alcoholic Beverages, AncestralityMaximale Blutalkoholkonzentration nach forciertem Konsum von alkoholfreiem BierSave to LibraryDownloadby Annette Thierauf•  3  Art, Gynecology, RechtsmedizinEarly Bronze Snake Motifs on Pottery Vessels and Their Symbolism in Southern LevantSave to LibraryDownloadby fardous Ajlouny•  5  Ancient History, Archaeology, Pottery, BronzeRecovery of amylolytic enzymes from triticale malt (X. Triticosecale Wittmack) using two-phase aqueous systemsIntroduction: Triticale malt has shown higher amylolytic activity than other cereal malts, a characteristic of great importance for the brewing and starch industry. The scope of this work was to obtain concentrated enzymatic aqueous... moreIntroduction: Triticale malt has shown higher amylolytic activity than other cereal malts, a characteristic of great importance for the brewing and starch industry. The scope of this work was to obtain concentrated enzymatic aqueous extracts containing β-amylase, α-amylase, and amyloglucosidase from triticale malts of Bicentenario and Siglo-XXI varieties, using aqueous two-phase systems (ATPS) for enzymes recovery. Methodology: The malts produced had 5 days of germination and were dried at 50°C. The extracts were prepared by mixing ground malt with deionized water (1:10), stirred at 180 rpm, testing three stirring times (30, 120, and 270 min) and two temperatures (30 and 40°C) (12 treatments). The extracts were centrifugated, freeze-dried and purified, varying the concentrations of alcohol and Na3C6H5O7. Enzyme quantification was performed using: BETAMYL-3® (β-amylase); AOAC 2002.0I, AACC22-02.0I (α-amylase), and McCleary et al., (1991) (amyloglucosidase). Results: In relation to th...Save to LibraryDownloadby María Dolores Mariezcurrena Berasain•  7  Chemistry, Food Science, Starch, TriticaleCASE – Centre Asie du Sud-EstPierre-Yves Manguin, directeur d’etudes a l’EFEOEric Bourdonneau, maitre de conferences a l’EFEO Histoire et archeologie de l’ancienne Asie du Sud-Est Thematique 1 (Pierre-Yves Manguin) : Les premiers « âges du commerce » dans l’ancienne... morePierre-Yves Manguin, directeur d’etudes a l’EFEOEric Bourdonneau, maitre de conferences a l’EFEO Histoire et archeologie de l’ancienne Asie du Sud-Est Thematique 1 (Pierre-Yves Manguin) : Les premiers « âges du commerce » dans l’ancienne Asie du Sud-Est : echanges, reseaux, marches Les systemes politiques cotiers de l’Asie du Sud-Est, a compter des environs du Ve siecle av. notre ere, se sont developpes au gre des fluctuations des echanges maritimes, a l’echelle de la region, entre les deux r...Save to LibraryDownloadby Alice Sophie Sarcinelli•  2  Humanities, ArtHenkin RESUME January 2023Save to LibraryDownloadby Josh Henkin•  20  Botany, Museum Studies, Phytochemistry, Archaeological ScienceVariety Development of Wheat in Turkey and the Impact of RegulationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Mesut Keser•Sage MeadAn SCA brewing project from 2010Save to LibraryDownloadby J Ronsen•  2  Medieval Brewing, Mead brewingThe Oregon State University Mini MalterIn the past 30 years the growing micro brewing community has stimulated research in the science of brewing beer. The Oregon State University (OSU) food science and crop science departments are resources for such research. There has... moreIn the past 30 years the growing micro brewing community has stimulated research in the science of brewing beer. The Oregon State University (OSU) food science and crop science departments are resources for such research. There has existed a gap between the two departments that hinders the combination of their work. This gap is the production of malted barley, which is a key ingredient in beer. There currently exists no industry equivalent that can malt a batch size on a scale appropriate for the OSU food science brewery. This factor was the motivation for the mini malter project. This project was a collaborative effort between the schools of mechanical, industrial, manufacturing engineering and food science technology to design and build a prototype malting machine. The design chosen was a round stainless steel vessel for washing, steeping, germinating and kilning. Its main capability is incorporating all the different processes required for malting barley into a single machine. Th...Save to LibraryDownloadby John Parmigiani•  2  Engineering, Brewing“La cerveza y la chicha, patrimonio cultural y turístico del Ecuador” por Alexander VegaPuedo decir que la chicha originaria de Ecuador y su mestizaje con la cerveza europea, ha sido una construcción importante de la cultura ecuatoriana durante siglos y ha desempeñado un papel importante en la identidad y la historia del... morePuedo decir que la chicha originaria de Ecuador y su mestizaje con la cerveza europea, ha sido una construcción importante de la cultura ecuatoriana durante siglos y ha desempeñado un papel importante en la identidad y la historia del país. Además, la cerveza también ha tenido un impacto significativo en la economía y el turismo de Ecuador, ha evolucionado y se ha adaptado a medida que la sociedad ha cambiado. En general, la cerveza y su práctica artesanal es un ejemplo de cómo la cultura y la identidad pueden ser transmitidas y preservadas a través de los productos culinarios y las tradiciones. Reconociendo la innovación en el siglo XXI como el resultado del mestizaje, palpable en el desarrollo de la llamada CERVEZACHICHA O CHICHABEER que une gastronómicamente a las culturas aborígenes y europeas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Vega•  20  Gastronomy, Cultural Heritage, Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Gastronomia“La cerveza y la chicha, patrimonio cultural y turístico del Ecuador” por Alexander VegaPuedo decir que la chicha originaria de Ecuador y su mestizaje con la cerveza europea, ha sido una construcción importante de la cultura ecuatoriana durante siglos y ha desempeñado un papel importante en la identidad y la historia del... morePuedo decir que la chicha originaria de Ecuador y su mestizaje con la cerveza europea, ha sido una construcción importante de la cultura ecuatoriana durante siglos y ha desempeñado un papel importante en la identidad y la historia del país. Además, la cerveza también ha tenido un impacto significativo en la economía y el turismo de Ecuador, ha evolucionado y se ha adaptado a medida que la sociedad ha cambiado. En general, la cerveza y su práctica artesanal es un ejemplo de cómo la cultura y la identidad pueden ser transmitidas y preservadas a través de los productos culinarios y las tradiciones. Reconociendo la innovación en el siglo XXI como el resultado del mestizaje, palpable en el desarrollo de la llamada CERVEZACHICHA O CHICHABEER que une gastronómicamente a las culturas aborígenes y europeas.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Vega•  20  Cultural Heritage, Food and Nutrition, Ecuador, Archaeology of Beer and Cereal FermentationThe purification and physicochemical characterization of maize (Zea mays L.) isocitrate lyaseSave to LibraryDownloadby Sonia Beeckmans•  4  Chemistry, Medicine, Glyoxylate Cycle, Biochemistry and cell biologyValenzuela, F. (2023). Se puede consumir alcohol según el AyurvedaThis article gathers information from the Caraka Samhita and Astanga Hrdaya regarding the therapeutic use of alcoholic beverages in Ayurveda.What have you read about it?Save to LibraryDownloadby Felipe Valenzuela•  18  Integrative Ayurveda, Fermentation Technologies, Ayurveda (Sanskrit language and literature), Alcohol StudiesPollen analysis of the contents of excavated vessels—direct archaeobotanical evidence of beveragesSave to LibraryDownloadby Manfred Rösch•  6  Archaeology, Geology, Ecology, Vegetation History and Archaeobotany2023 (Pierre Le Roux), « « Ni vins ni bières. Boissons fermentées traditionnelles d’Asie du Sud-Est, types de ferments utilisés, gâteaux rituels marqueurs d’archéologie alimentaire et témoins de boissons disparues », 5 juincommunication au Colloque international interdisciplinaire « Premières gorgées de bière. Archéologie et histoire de la “bière” »/International Interdisciplinary Conference « First sips of beer Archaeology and history of “beer” »,... morecommunication au Colloque international interdisciplinaire « Premières gorgées de bière. Archéologie et histoire de la “bière” »/International Interdisciplinary Conference « First sips of beer Archaeology and history of “beer” », Saverne (France), 5-8 juin 2023Château des Rohan, place du général-de-Gaulle, 67700 Saverne (Bas-Rhin, Alsace, France) (entrée libre/free admission)PREMIER COLLOQUE INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINAIREL’un des principaux objectifs de ce colloque par sa démarche pluridisciplinaire est, tout en présentant les derniers résultats sur l’histoire et l’archéologie de la bière, de réfléchir ensemble aux questions émergentes sur le sujet. En élargissant la focale à plusieurs types de sources et approches (histoire, ethnologie, sociologie, etc.), nous espérons proposer un point d’étape sur le sujet. Grâce à l’étendue géographique et chronologique qui découle des quatre sessions, un dernier point de ce colloque aura pour ambition de proposer une nouvelle typologie des termes associés à la bière et aux boissons fermentées en explicitant leur champ sémantique et leur origine. Ainsi, nous pourrons proposer à la communauté un nouvel outil composé d’une grille de termes génériques (vin, cidre, bière et néologismes…). Cela permettra d’attribuer aux boissons ainsi désignées une définition précise et conventionnelle. Une séance de discussion sera prévue sur ce thème à l’issue du colloque.FIRST INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINARY CONFERENCEOne of the main objectives of this symposium through its multidisciplinary approach is, while presenting the latest results on the history and archaeology of beer, to reflect together on emerging issues on the subject. By broadening the focus to several types of sources and approaches (history, social anthropology, sociology…), we hope to propose a progress report on the subject. Thanks to the geographical and chronological scope that results from the four sessions, a final point of this conference will aim to propose a new typology of terms associated with beer and fermented beverages by explaining their semantic field and origin. Thus, we will be able to offer the community a new tool composed of a grid of generic terms (wine, cider, beer and neologisms...). This will make it possible to give the beverages thus designated a precise and conventional definition. A discussion session will be planned on this theme at the end of the conference.Comité scientifique/Scientific Committee• Florian Jedrusiak, carpologue - ArScAn-GAMA, UMR7041 (CNRS, université Paris Nanterre & Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne)• Florent Jodry, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Pierre Le Roux, professeur d’ethnologie - laboratoire SAGE, UMR 7363 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Philippe Marinval, carpologue - chargé de recherche CNRS - ASM, UMR 5140 (CNRS & univ. Paul Valéry-Montpellier 3)• Matthieu Michler, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)Comité d’organisation/Organizing committee•  Florent Jodry, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Matthieu Michler, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Emmanuelle Thomann, directrice des musées et du patrimoine de Saverne(programme joint au format PDF/attached program in PDF format)Save to LibraryDownloadby Pierre Le Roux•  14  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Southeast Asian Studies, Thai Studies2023, Colloque international interdisciplinaire « Premières gorgées de bière. Archéologie et histoire de la “bière” »/International Interdisciplinary Conference  « First sips of beer Archaeology and history of “beer” », Saverne (France), 5-8 juin/June 5-8COLLOQUE INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINAIRE Premières gorgées de bière. Archéologie et histoire de la « bière »/ INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINARY CONFERENCE First sips of beer Archaeology and history of “beer” 5-8 juin 2023 (pour les... moreCOLLOQUE INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINAIRE Premières gorgées de bière. Archéologie et histoire de la « bière »/ INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINARY CONFERENCE First sips of beer Archaeology and history of “beer”5-8 juin 2023 (pour les auditeurs, l'entrée est payante ; chercheurs : 100 € pour les quatre jours ; étudiants : 50 € pour les quatre jours ; pour tous, la journée : 25 €)PREMIER COLLOQUE INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINAIREL’un des principaux objectifs de ce colloque par sa démarche pluridisciplinaire est, tout en présentant les derniers résultats sur l’histoire et l’archéologie de la bière, de réfléchir ensemble aux questions émergentes sur le sujet. En élargissant la focale à plusieurs types de sources et approches (histoire, ethnologie, sociologie, etc.), nous espérons proposer un point d’étape sur le sujet. Grâce à l’étendue géographique et chronologique qui découle des quatre sessions, un dernier point de ce colloque aura pour ambition de proposer une nouvelle typologie des termes associés à la bière et aux boissons fermentées en explicitant leur champ sémantique et leur origine. Ainsi, nous pourrons proposer à la communauté un nouvel outil composé d’une grille de termes génériques (vin, cidre, bière et néologismes…). Cela permettra d’attribuer aux boissons ainsi désignées une définition précise et conventionnelle. Une séance de discussion sera prévue sur ce thème à l’issue du colloque.FIRST INTERNATIONAL INTERDISCIPLINARY CONFERENCEOne of the main objectives of this symposium through its multidisciplinary approach is, while presenting the latest results on the history and archaeology of beer, to reflect together on emerging issues on the subject. By broadening the focus to several types of sources and approaches (history, social anthropology, sociology…), we hope to propose a progress report on the subject. Thanks to the geographical and chronological scope that results from the four sessions, a final point of this conference will aim to propose a new typology of terms associated with beer and fermented beverages by explaining their semantic field and origin. Thus, we will be able to offer the community a new tool composed of a grid of generic terms (wine, cider, beer and neologisms...). This will make it possible to give the beverages thus designated a precise and conventional definition. A discussion session will be planned on this theme at the end of the conference.Comité scientifique/Scientific Committee• Christian Berger, historien de la bière, ancien brasseur de la première micro-brasserie créée à Paris en 1987, administrateur du site https://www.beer-studies.com.• Florian Jedrusiak, carpologue - ArScAn-GAMA, UMR7041 (CNRS, université Paris Nanterre & Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne)• Florent Jodry, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Pierre Le Roux, professeur d’ethnologie - laboratoire SAGE, UMR 7363 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Philippe Marinval, carpologue - chargé de recherche CNRS - ASM, UMR 5140 (CNRS & univ. Paul Valéry-Montpellier 3)• Matthieu Michler, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)Comité d’organisation/Organizing committee•  Florent Jodry, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Matthieu Michler, archéologue - INRAP/laboratoire ARCHIMÈDE, UMR7044 (CNRS & université de Strasbourg)• Emmanuelle Thomann, directrice des musées et du patrimoine de SaverneProgramme/Program (joint au format PDF/attached program in PDF format)5-8 juin 2023 : colloque - 9 juin 2023 : journée grand publicSession 1 (5 juin) « Des matières premières à la boisson fermentée : préparation et transformation dans les différentes aires culturelles (Europe, Amériques, Orient, Afrique) »1) « Les différentes techniques de brasserie en Égypte ancienne »Adeline Bats & Yann Tristant2) « Phylogénèse de la bière parmi les quatre familles de boissons fermentées »Christian Berger3) « The Role of Malt and Malt Sugars in Ale and Beer Brewing. Magic, Technology and Science »Merryn Dineley4) « Ni vins ni bières. Boissons fermentées traditionnelles d’Asie du Sud-Est, types de ferments utilisés, gâteaux rituels marqueurs d’archéologie alimentaire et témoins de boissons disparues »Pierre Le Roux5) « Grain-based Fermented Alcoholic Drinks in Ancient and Medieval South Asia »James McHugh6) « Ancient Brewsters. The Role of Women in Brewing Beer in Antiquity »William Max NelsonSession 2 (6 juin) « L’identification de la bière dans les contextes archéologiques »1) « Architecture et outillage des brasseries médiévales dans le contexte monastique »Anthony Gaillard2) « La dernière gorgée de bière... Les marqueurs chimiques de la bière dans une tombe du IVe s. à Bourges (Cher) et cadre de consommation »Nicolas Garnier, Caroline Tokarski, Sandrine Linger-Riquier3) « X-ray Micro-CT Visualization of Fermentation-Related Use Wear and Damage on a Set of Archaeological and Ethnographic Sherds from Southern Peru »Joshua Henkin & Donna Nash4) « Microfossil evidence of beer and other drinks between Iron Age and Early Medieval, mostly from Southern Germany »Manfred Rösch5) « Un espace de fabrication de bière du premier âge du Fer dans la vallée de la Seine ? Étude fonctionnelle intégrée de l’assemblage de grands contenants céramiques de Périgny-la-Rose, La Pièce Villière (Aube, France) »Marion Saurel, Pauline Debels, Isabelle Le Goff, Françoise Toulemonde, Alexandre Monnier, Nadia Tarifa Mateo, Philippe Schaeffer, Pierre Adam, Katinka Zipper6) « Exploring beer consumption in the archaeobotanical and textual record of Greece, 7th-1st millennium B.C. »Soultana Maria Valamoti7) « Une gorgée de bière, mais d’où ? Reconnaître la bière par le fonctionnement de ses contenants : un cas d’étude mésopotamien »Melania ZingarelloSession 3 (7 juin) « Boire la bière »1) « La bière à Rome : une boisson impériale ? »Christophe Badel2) « Les “beuveries” incas ou la bière de maïs comme outil impérial de séduction et de captation de la force de travail des populations andines (XVe-XVIe siècles)David Barreiro3) « L’activité brassicole dans les milieux civils et religieux à Arras (Pas-de-Calais) entre les XIVe et XVIIe siècles »Mathieu Béghin & Alain Jacques4) « La bière dans le cinéma de long-métrage de fiction (1910-2020) : une question de genre artistique »Vincent Chenille5) « Cases à bière d’hier et d’aujourd’hui. Une étude archéologique et ethnologique sur la production de bière et les structures qui l’accueille en Pays Bedik (Sénégal oriental) »Pauline Debels, Julien Vieugué, Louis Champion, Anne Mayor6) « Presque de la bière ? Une boisson de choix dans les pays arabes au Moyen Âge »Véronique Pitchon7) « Bière de maïs ou bière de manioc ? Les boissons fermentées de la Guyane »Martijn van den BelSession 4 (8 juin) « La bière aujourd’hui : production, consommation, expérimentation »1) « Brasserie, nationalisme et politique en Thaïlande »Jean Baffie2) « Le brassage d’une bière à l’antique à Malagne, l’Archéoparc de Rochefort : vingt ans d’expérimentations »Florence Garit3) « La marque de l’histoire. À la recherche de l’identité des bières du Nord »Jean-François Grevet4) « Bière d'abbaye, enquête littéraire et retour d'expérience »Mathieu LandriTable ronde avec les intervenants présents (dont Hervé Marziou) et les invités (brasseurs industriels et artisanaux de la région de Saverne). Posters présentés lors du colloque/Posters presented at the conference• Les techniques de brassage à travers les âges. Études et expérimentations archéologiquesRomuald Arnould• Bière, hydromel et autres boissons fermentées : quelle place dans les pratiques funéraires de la Protohistoire ?Élodie Caserta & Gaëlle Granier• Renouveau brassicole dans les Hauts-de-France : les enjeux de la consommation contemporaine d’une boisson « patrimoniale »Bastien Durand-Toulouse• Expérimentations archéologiques de brasserie sur la base des archives et vestiges médiévauxAnthony Gaillard• Preliminary Study of the Composition and Value-Added Potential of Brewers’ Spent GrainJoshua Henkin• A Network Analysis-Based Approach to the In Silico Study of FLO Genes in Yeast Flocculation and metabolismJoshua Henkin & Carlos R. Salas• Calpis : histoire d’une boisson lactée fermentée sacrée et populaire au JaponAyame Hosoi• Production artisanale des boissons traditionnelles en milieu forestier : le cas de la fermentation de la sève du palmier à huile en vin local « Odontol » à l'Est-CamerounHanse-Gilbert Mbeng Dang• Notes sur le vin et ses symboles au Maroc antiqueBasma Mejrihi• Le bâtiment de la brasserie du couvent de l’Oelenberg (Bas-Rhin) : étude structurelleJérome Raimbault & Franck SchwartzSave to LibraryDownloadby Pierre Le Roux•  16  History, Sociology, African Studies, Latin American StudiesBrIAS Workshop Fermented Foods & Health. March 3rd 2023 13.30-17.30 Central European TimePlease click the hyperlinked words 'LINK' or 'TEAMS' in de attached file to enter the Microsoft Teams Meeting. Workshop organizers: Antonia Matalas & Frits HeinrichIn person location: Salle Solvay, ULB Campus La Plaine, BrusselsSave to LibraryDownloadby Frits Heinrich and +1Francesca Lemmens•  19  Nutrition and Dietetics, Food Science, Nutrition, Fermentation TechnologiesProgramme du colloque Archéologie et Histoire de la "bière" - Saverne 2023Du 5 au 8 juin, Saverne Château des RohanSave to LibraryDownloadby Michler Matthieu and +1Marion Saurel•  10  Beer (Alcohol Studies), Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Food fermentations - complementary foods, cassava, indigenous food drinks, Ancient Food and DrinkDu 5 au 8 juin 2023 : colloque Le 9 juin 2023 : journée grand public Session 1 (5 juin) Des matières premières à la boisson fermentée : préparation et transformation dans les différentes aires culturelles (Europe, Amériques, Orient, AfriqueSave to LibraryDownloadby Michler Matthieu•Colloque archeo histoire biere 202306 afficheProchain Colloque consacré à la Bière et aux Boissons fermentées à Saverne en Juin 2023Save to LibraryDownloadby Michler Matthieu•  6  Beer (Alcohol Studies), Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Cultural history of beer, Histoire de la bièreMusique et alcool en Amazonie du Nord-EstSave to LibraryDownloadby Jean-Michel  Beaudet•Description of localities and methodology of the field experiment of the project 1M0570 (in the period of 2005 and 2007-2008)Save to LibraryDownloadby petr elzner•NextLast »Related TopicsBeer (Alcohol Studies)FollowFollowingBeer and Brewery HistoryFollowFollowingArchaeologyFollowFollowingArchaeology of drinking placesFollowFollowingBeerFollowFollowingCultural history of beerFollowFollowingDrinking practices (Anthropology)FollowFollowingAncient Seals and SealingsFollowFollowingCeramic Analysis (Archaeology)FollowFollowingExperimental ArchaeologyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023