Technology Resources for Faculty | University of Hawaii System
Skip to Main Content
UH Home
Directory
MyUH
Work at UH
Apply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Information Technology Services
                        University of Hawaii System       
                    
Menu Open Mobile Menu
Search 
Search this site
Site search
HELP DESK
ITS Services
INFORMATION SECURITY
ALERTS
ABOUT
About
VP for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer
Academic Development and Technology (ADT)
Academic Technologies
Client Service and Operations Center (CSOC)
Cyberinfrastructure
Enterprise Systems
Information Security
Technology Infrastructure
ASK US
CONTACT ITS
 
Home   
 Technology Resources for Faculty 
Technology Resources for Faculty
UH Username
Your UH Username is your electronic key to gaining access to the university's online services, such as email, Internet access, and many academic and administrative web applications.
Get your UH Username
Change your password or secret questions/answers
Request/Manage Departmental/Organizational UH Username
Basic Online Services for Faculty
Google@UH
Google@UH provides ad-free access to some of Google's most popular services, including Gmail, Calendar, and Drive, through your UH Username.
Login to Google@UH
Setup Google@UH Gmail using IMAP
Setup Google@UH on iPhone/iPad/iPod
Setup Google@UH on Android Device
Google@UH Documentation
Protecting Your Information
Keep your information safe by learning more about cyber threats and following best practices.
IT Security @ UH
Spam/Phishing
Securing Your Computer
Password Guidelines
Communication & Information Sharing
ITS provides online services to assist faculty with communication and information sharing.
File Drop
Departmental Website Hosting
Listserv Mailing Lists
Web-based Surveys
Video Production Services
Campus WiFi
Connect to your campus WiFi and login using your UH Username. Register a device for a passthrough to bypass this login. Faculty can sponsor guests for campus WiFi access.
Connecting to the UH Wireless Networks
Wireless Authentication Passthrough
Visitor Internet Access
Computer Hardware & Software
ITS provides desktop and laptop computer recommendations, as well as publishes a list of currently supported software and web browser recommendations.
ITS Computer Recommendations
ITS Supported Software
Purchasing Software
Web Browser Recommendations
Instructional Resources
Several resources are available for various aspects of your academic and instructional duties.
UH Online Innovation Center - The UH Online Innovation Center (UHOIC) provides instructional design consultation and professional development opportunities across the UH system related to quality online teaching and learning.
Laulima - Laulima is the tool for enhanced or total online teaching and learning ties to your course enrollment.
Video Conferencing services and support are provided to the University of Hawaiʻi community. ITS has the IT Center Video Conference Rooms, ITS Interactive Video Classrooms, and Videoconference Room Consultation.
TALENT - TALENT is a faculty development program which supports faculty on all campuses of the University of Hawaiʻi system.
Course Evaluation System (CES) CES is the official application for Course Evaluations at the University of Hawaii.
Research
ITS offers services to assist with research computing needs.
Cyberinfrastructure - Cyberinfrastructure provides advanced computing, data management, science as a service and collaborative research.
Server, Data Center, and Storage - ITS offers a set of "for fee" infrastructure services to support the needs of departments and researchers across all of the UH campuses.
myGRANT - the University of Hawaii System's personalized version of the Kuali Foundation's open source research administration software Kuali Coeus (KC).
Tools & Resources
MyUH
GO
MyUH is the online portal where students can access many resources and services.
Online Leave
GO
Submit leave requests to your supervisor for approval and view your leave history and current balances.
Pay stubs
GO
View current and previous pay stub statements.
HIP
GO
Hawaii Information Portal - Setup/Edit direct deposit, view W-2/W-2c forms, view pay statements.
First.Last
GO
First.Last email alias allows you to use your first and last name for your email address.
Information Technology Services (Site)
                                                                                                Information Technology Center                                                                                                                                2520 Correa Road                                                                                                                                Honolulu, Hawaii 96822                                                                                    
Contact Us
Telephone: (808) 956-8883
Email: help@hawaii.edu
                                                                        2444 Dole Street                                                                                                Honolulu, HI 96822                                                            
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institutionUse of this site implies consent with our Usage Policycopyright © 2018 University of Hawaiʻi
Calendar
Directory
Emergency Information
MyUH
Privacy Statement
Work at UH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Contact UHIf required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request.
Get Adobe Acrobat Reader
Go to Top