AT&T’s Online Learning Site Strives to Help Slow 'Summer Slide'
AT&T’s Online Learning Site Strives to Help Slow 'Summer Slide'
 June 01, 2023
AT&T’s Online Learning Site Strives to Help Slow 'Summer Slide' 
Our free digital platform can help students stay on track this summer.
Share
Subscribe to AT&T news
Key Takeaways:
‘Summer Slide’ or ‘Summer Learning Loss’ refers to the amount of knowledge students lose between grade levels during summer break.
Most students lose an average of two months of math skills every summer, and it often is three months of reading loss for students from low-income households, according to the National Summer Learning Association.
The Achievery, AT&T’s free online learning platform, loaded with standards-aligned educational and entertaining content, may help students combat summer learning loss.
As students are getting ready to say goodbye to the classroom and hello to summer vacation, some may be at risk of forgetting what they learned during the school year. While summertime can mean soaking up the sun and enjoying a popsicle by the pool, the books may start collecting dust.
While 8-12 weeks away from the classroom doesn’t seem very long, ​the gap can severely impact our students’ success. Annenberg Brown University’s summer learning statistics show the average student loses 17–34% of the prior year’s skills during summer break.  
​And the National Summer Learning Association found that can equate to most students losing an average of two months of math skills every summer, and another two to three months in reading for students whose families fall below the median income level.
Looking for ways to help prevent summer slide? AT&T has a solution that may help- The Achievery was created by AT&T, to make online learning more entertaining, engaging, and inspiring for K-12 students everywhere today’s connected students learn.
The online platform has more than 570 educational learning units in both English and Spanish, providing educational and entertaining videos paired with standard-aligned learning activities for continuous learning. Shall we remind you it’s free?
The free online learning platform is part of AT&T’s commitment to help close the digital divide by offering access to free tools and resources to enrich students’ digital learning experience, providing opportunities to succeed.
We are determined to help students skip the summer slide and come back to school prepared and ready to learn. Every statistic motivates us to incorporate summer learning and continue opening doors to greater possibility.
Click here to join the 135,000 students who have already participated in learning with The Achievery.
HTML Editor Component *Contents may not have visible height
Reduced Width Video Banner Code
Read more Digital Divide news
The San Pasqual Tribe and AT&T Expand Fiber Network
Our super-fast internet speeds will be available to locations on San Pasqual Band of Mission Indians’ Tribal lands to serve residential and small businesses.
Read More
AT&T to Provide Connectivity Solutions for New Mexico Schools
With Cooperative Educational Services exclusive contract, we will offer solutions to address school safety concerns in New Mexico and help close the digital divide.
Read More
Joint AT&T – County Fiber Project Launches in Oldham, KY
We're delivering multi-gig fiber speeds to residences and businesses with our new partnership in Oldham County, Kentucky.
Read More