What is Chutney Music?
123 captures
21 Apr 2003 - 24 Sep 2022
Mar
JUL
Sep
16
2010
2011
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks July 2011
  Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started July, 2011. These files are currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20110716163511/http://aingram.web.wesleyan.edu/chutney.html
 
What
is Chutney music?
An
exploratory essay by Amelia IngramSeminar
in North Indian MusicsWesleyan
UniversityFall 1997
Table of Contents:
Background
Musical
Characteristics 
Notable
Artists 
Sound
Samples 
Works
Cited 
I.
Background
       Anytime
you visit Trinidad (especially during Carnival) you will eventually
hear the exotic sounds of chutney music blaring from a maxi taxi,
playing in a dance club, or on the street.  And surprisingly
enough, you might be able to hear it in other parts of the Indian
diaspora.  This presentation is designed to give an overview of
my initial explorations into chutney music, its musical connections
to India, and its role in the greater Indian musical diaspora. 
Since this is a newly developing music, this project has been
extremely difficult to research, and it will continue to be an
ongoing topic/hobby for me within my studies of Trinidadian and West
Indian music.
     First,
I would like to give some quotes of sources that attempt to define
chutney music.  TIDCO, the official tourist development company
of Trinidad, gives this definition:
Chutney is an up-tempo, rhythmic song,
accompanied by the dholak, the harmonium and the dhantal. 
Originally, chutney songs made reference to deities and were
offensive to religious leaders.  Within recent times, the
chutney has become extremely popular and new compositions are being
written.  Some of these contain calypso and soca rhythms. 
There is also some extemporaneous composition and accompaniment
(especially in the growing number of competitions) may be provided by
bands which include Indian, Western and African instruments (TIDCO
1996, 16).
     
This definition
indicates several important features to chutney.  First, it is a
music with a religious background.  This is one of the only
sources that suggests sacred origins.  Secondly, it is a popular
music, which utilizes folk acoustic instruments.  This is
important to note since many modern popular genres in Trinidad
exclude the use of acoustic (or non-electrified) musical
instruments.  Lastly, the definition gives the impression that
the music has been integrated into other world music styles. 
This is one of the most important features of this music, in my
opinion, and one that ties it to other Indian diasporic musics such
as bhangra.
    Then
came the fourth phase, the final ingredient as it were, with the
addition of Khimta
(Chutney) into the already douglarised (bastardized) soca. Chutney
is the music and song (and now dance) composed and sung by Indian
women originally behind closed doors and now in the competitive arena
for male and female...No doubt the Chutney Soca has become the 
"beat" of the late 80's, and is heading into the 90's with
astonishing vigour even deleving into the area of chutney
soca parang (Constance
1991, 66).
    The
identification of another, possibly Indian, term for chutney-- Khimta
-- is an important step in further defining the genre. 
Constance (1991) claims chutney as the former domain of women, since
the instruments used in chutney, such as the dholak, were some of the
few acceptable for performance by female musicians.  Another
important feature is the fact that this genre has been coopted into
other Trinidadian musical styles of soca and parang.  Hence,
syncretism has been an acknowledged characteristic of chutney's
history. Finally, I wanted to highlight the emphasis of chutney being
music "and now dance", which suggests that the dance has
been just recently integrated into chutney. I suspect this might be
an influence from the format of the calypso tent shows, in which each
calypsonian has his or her own dancers during the performance. 
TIDCO's music homepage adds more to our increasing definition of
chutney:
    Chutney, the East
Indian foray into party music has been taking T&T by storm.
Chutney music uses East Indian folk tunes, movie tunes and even
bhajans (religious songs), over a fast calypso or Soca based beat.
Today English words are added to the Hindi and as the calypso element
becomes stronger, the music is moving from a melodic Eastern core to
a more harmonic Western base. Studio recordings with an eye on the
party circuit have increasingly incorporated use of keyboards and
drum machines programmed with tassa (the exciting drums used in the
Muslim Hosay festival) rhythms.
  
The Sai Baba Movement whose philosophy
includes praising God through music has been instrumental in keeping
the music alive. The members use of Kirtans (short four line songs
based on the East Indian ragas) which are repeated at increasingly
faster tempos to a pitch of ecstasy have exposed many to the music
(TIDCO 1997).
This addition to our definition
implies that chutney has become synonymous with 'chutney soca'. 
This was also confirmed in a a personal interview I conducted with
Paddy Gorea, a Trinidadian musical enthusiast who currently lives in
Queens, NY (one of the homes of chutney in the United States). 
The homepage also mentions that the incorporation of electronic
instruments has been the product of the party circuit.  One
interesting (and rather confusing element that they mention is the
cultural maintenance by the Sai Baba Movement.  I find this
aspect to be a bit confusing, and I will have to investigate this
further before I entirely discount it.  Nevertheless, it is one
of the few definite ties that I have found to a specific Indian
religious movement, and it is worth considering.  Lastly, the
incorporation of English lyrics into Hindi ones reflect the distance
that East Indians in Trinidad have had to get accustomed to. 
English lyrics also might reflect a younger generation of Indians
(born abroad in Trinidad or in the U.S.) that have been more
influenced by Western music with English lyrics.
    Before
moving on, I would like to sum up the defining characteristics of
this genre that I have found:
Religious
origins
Utilization
of folk instruments
Integration
into other national styles/genres(African, Indian, Western)
Synonymous
with "Khimta"
Formerly
performed by women
Syncretism
with other Trinidadian genres
The
label 'chutney' now being used synonymously with 'chutney soca'
Association
with the Sai Baba religious movement in Trinidad
Combination of English and
Hindi lyrics
II. 
Musical Characteristics
    I'm
sure that the difficulty of defining chutney has been made obvious in
previous section.  The list of instruments that have been
incorporated into chutney are numerous, however those that have been
mentioned most frequently are dholak,
harmonium, and the
dhantal. 
This excerpt from TIDCO also includes Trinidadian tassa
in the 'modern' versions of chutney.
I suspect that the use of tassa in chutney has also affected the
rhythms formerly played on the dholak,
which might be interesting to trace.
    Originally
the instruments used to accompany chutney
songs were minimal; the harmonium
for melody, the dholak
(drum) and the dhantal
(along metal rod struck with a small u shaped piece of metal bent at
both ends) for rhythm. Studio recordings with an eye on the party
circuit have increasingly incorporated use of keyboards and drum
machines programmed with tassa
(the exciting drums used in the Muslim Hosay festival) rhythms (TIDCO
1997).
    From
listening to several recent albums, I have concluded, as in the
excerpts above, that chutney shares several musical traits with
soca. 
Most striking is its upbeat tempo, which has definitely become a
driving force behind soca
, much more so than with calypso,
which has traditionally been more laid-back and relaxed. 
Another is the off-beats played by the dhantal
, accompanied by the off-beats of the dhol, or dholak.  I have
decided that these are most likely performed by a dhol instead of a
dholak, since they tend to be significantly deeper than the moving
rhythms of the dholak
.  In the more modern versions of chutney (or shall I call it
chutney-soca
?) the dhol's
off-beat pattern has been taken over by an electric bass playing a
single drone-like pitch.  This is very similar to another recent
genre began by Eddie Grant in Barbados called ringbang. 
I have strong suspicions that ringbang
has taken these elements of chutney
and combined them with techno-pop in a fashion that might parallel
bhangra.   
Other consistent traits are noticed in
the decidedly Indian style of melody-shaping, using ornamental
figures that are more similar to light classical genres such as
thumri
.  Harmonies, although probably 'Westernized' in a sense, are
found to have some elements of major/minor keys.  Since my
knowledge of its original folk background is limited, I will have to
leave that discussion for another time.  Lyrics are also another
difficult subject to tackle, other than I find them to be fairly
consistent in content and style to calypso-- this could be purely
coincidence, however.    My
final comment on chutney's musical styles comes in the form of the
musics that are incorporated into chutney.  The influences upon
chutney are as diverse as the ethnic backgrounds of Trinidadians, and
it is especially obvious in those that are closer to soca.  One
example below is very striking:  the use of 'Chinese' or
oriental melodies in "Chanie Batie" by Satrohan Maharaj.
III. 
Notable Artists
    I
have only listened to a limited repertory of chutney music, however I
have discovered a few more noticeable artists that  should be
looked out for in the future. Sundar Popohas evidently been one of
the pioneers in the artform, breaking many boundaries, and most
importantly, forming the bond with calypso and soca,for which he is
noted (Constance 1991, 77).
    There
are massive chutney "explosions" in Trinidad and Tobago and
internationally, chutney greats such as Sundar Popo, Anand Yankaran
and the Queen, Ramrajee Prabhoo are often billed by promoters to
perform with
calypsonians as
well as on their own. Narsaloo Ramramaya, Research Officer at the
Ministry of culture in Trinidad and Tobago has noted that the
popularity of chutney has relegated local Indian classical singing to
thebackground and a move is
afoot to record the local folk songs to preserve them (TIDCO
1997).    The
mention of chutney explosions "internationally" in the
above quote are rather ambiguous.  I would like to investigate
the artists mentioned above to see if they tour internationally as
well.  I just noticed recently that Rakesh Yankaran, one of the
artists mentioned above, has also just recently become the National
Chutney Monarch in Trinidad.  Rakesh Yankaran proved to be the
runaway winner in the National Chutney Monarch Competition at
Guaracara Park, Pointe-a-Pierre, on Saturday night.  With
spirited performances in both the traditional and soca chutney
categories, Yankaran edged out 20 of the country's top chutney
artistes and copped five of the 14 national titles at stake.  
Yankaran, of Brickfield Village, Carapichaima, is the new Chutney
Monarch.  He will receive an $80,000 Toyota Tercel. He also
copped the titles in the Chutney/Soca, Traditional Chutney and Best
Harmonium Player competitions, while his group was adjudged Best
Dressed Group.  Altogether he will collect some $12,000 apart
from the car (Gosine 5/6/97).    On
one of the most recent albums I bought, Chutney
Party Mix 2, Yankaran
performs a song called "Julna Jhulaway".  I didn't
include it in my sound samples, but at least the connection has been
made with his name. Another name which has recently become very
popular amongst the soca audience is Sonny Mann, who remade the song
"Lootayla" which gave him the Chutney Soca title in 1996. 
One of the most popular female singers in the nineties is Drupatee
Ramgoonai.  She has also been one of the first women chutney
singers to successfully bridge the gap into the soca market. Chris
Garcia has become idolized by many women, young and old.  He was
also popular in the soca/calypso tents in 1996 with his song "Chutney
Bacchanal".    Ultimately,
I only began to touch the surface of the chutney genre, and the
artists that struck my eye mostly were those who successfully made
the cross-over into fusions styles.  Artists that make the
cross-over into the Indian market seem to be less popular amongst the
Afro-Trinidadian audiences, which has made it very difficult for me
to find out about them.  Examples mentioned in Peter Manuel's
Caribbean Currents
book that have made the crossover are Babla and Kanchan.  Zeno
Constance mentions that  "Indian superstar" Kanchan
has been translating and performing calypsoes in Hindi, most known
for her renditions of Arrow's "Hot, Hot, Hot"(1985) and
Cassel's "Tiney Winey"(1986) (79). She also performed in
Trinidad in 1986 and 1988 (beyond that, I haven't found any
sources).  Constance also mentions that the two songs above were
performed by her in the Indian movie "Dhaanu".  This
is really important in making the connection that I have been
searching for between chutney and its appropriation into Indian film.
IV. 
Sound Samples
Finally, I wanted
to give you the chance to listen to the music I've been talking
about.  All of these sound files are in .aiff format. 
Their sizes are from 300-600k, so please be patient while they are
loading.
"
Chanie Batie " by Satrohan Maharaj from the compilation
Chutney Party Mix 2
(1996).  This one imitates a Chinese 'style' in the
instrumental melody.
"
Sugania " by Shiva Lakhan from the same album.  I
think this one is very close to soca more than chutney.  All of
the instruments are synthesized.
"
Lootayla " by Sonny Mann from Soca
Gold (various artists)
(1997)  More of a chutney that has been electrified than the
other way around.  The lyrics are in Hindi (with a little
English).
"
Basmatie Dance " by Heeralal Rampartap from Chutney
Party Mix 2 (1996) I
believe that this cut is a combination of both live and synthesized
instruments.
"
Jheenie Jheenae " by Ameena Ramaran from Chutney
Party Mix 2 (1996) 
This is a decent example of the use of live instruments in a chutney
arrangement.
Works
Cited
Constance, Zeno Obi.  1991. 
Tassa, Chutney & Soca:  The East Indian Contribution
    to the Calypso
.  Trinidad:  Jordan's Printing Service.
Gosine, Susan. 
1997   "Yankaran's
night, Five times a Chutney winner." 
       Trinidad
Express, 6 May 1997. 
Cited December 1, 1997.
    
<http://anansi.mit.edu/tnt/news/express/970506/features.htm
>
Manuel, Peter.  1995.  
Caribbean Currents:  Caribbean Music from Rumba to Reggae.
    Philadelphia: 
Temple University Press.
Personal Interview. 
1997.  Paddy Gorea (Queens, NYC)
conducted December
    12,1997.
TIDCO.  1996.  
Arts & Entertainment
Directory 1996
.  Port of Spain,
Trinidad:
    Tourism &
Industrial Development Company of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd.
_____. 
1997.    "
Music of Trinidad and Tobago " Port of Spain:  Tourism
&
    Industrial
Development Company of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd.  Cited 9
November,
    1997.
<http://www.tidco.co.tt/arts/music/music.html#Chutney>
Return
to top 
Page written and designed by Amelia Ingram, 12/16/97. 
All rights reserved.
For publication and copyright permission, please contact
the author.
Thank you for your cooperation.