Fon - Fon: The global WiFi network
 
Home
About
Success stories
Carrier
British Telecom
Telstra
Deutsche Telekom
Cosmote
Oi
SoftBank
Proximus
Enterprise
Vodafone
Wireless Gate
Yokohama
Solutions
Smart Connectivity Solutions 
Cloud Device Management 
Smart Devices
Contact Us
 
Select Page
  
 
 
Fon is the Global WiFi solution expert
We manage a WiFi network of over 23 million hotspots worldwide, connecting people and businesses.
Success Stories
Fon creates the future
Fon has been a global pioneer in WiFi networks and connectivity. For over a decade, we’ve been working with the world’s leading Telcos, providing solutions for their residential clients and public space environments. Now, more than ever, we are committed to bringing our knowledge and powerful resources to the world of hospitality.
Get in touch
 Our Products
 
5G / WiFi  Integration
WiFi Cloud Device Management
Advanced Connectivity Solutions
Increase Data Capacity
Wireless data demand continues to explode,driven by multimedia content, new device types and data hungry applications.
In order to support this demand, spectrum is critical for capacity and data speeds. Wi-Fi complements cellular in meeting this demand, and the latest advances in Wi-Fi 6 and massive addition of spectrum make Wi-Fi even more attractive and is expected to continue this growth pattern.
 
Know more
Improve Business Efficiency
Every business keeps a constant struggle to reduce operational costs. Cloud Mobile Device Management technology might be the most powerful tool in that department.
Hardware provisioning and customer support can be handled remotely, saving you time and money with on-site technical support visitations. But those are just two of the many benefits you can gain by adopting this solution.
 
Know More
Create New Business Opportunities
Adopt a more efficient and holistic approach to WiFi.
In an increasingly complex and competitive market, venue and business owners across all verticals should leverage WiFi networks in order to improve engagement with clients and take advantage of new opportunities that delivering connectivity has to offer.
 
Know More
Tell us about your project
Get in touch with our team and tell us your needs for an upcoming project or the improvement of your current business.
Contact Us
Leading Connectivity SolutionsFon is a leader in Device Connectivity software solutions. Our portfolio and expert team empowers our clients to deliver carrier-grade WiFi services in a secure, scalable, and uniquely flexible way, enabling an exceptional WiFi experience for their customers. Our Mobile Device Management solutions ensure, not only efficiency but a better experience for companies and clients.
Success Stories
Trusted Connectivity software provider
We provide the software and services for the managing Wireless networks, the virtualization of routers, as well as the facilitation of connection to wireless networks.
Some of our customers
Agile Content Group
Contact Us
Our team is ready to help you create a better service. Get in touch with us and we will give you all the information you need on how to improve your service or create a new project.
Get in touch
 
Maps
Careers
About
Legal & Cookies
Support
Login
 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read MorePrivacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
 
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Non-necessary
Non-necessary
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
SAVE & ACCEPT