UCB Libraries | GovPubs | Malaysia
41 captures
07 Apr 2008 - 31 Mar 2018
Jun
JAN
Jun
23
2008
2009
2010
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20090123034942/http://ucblibraries.colorado.edu:80/govpubs/for/malaysia.htm
UCB Libraries
Ask Us: email | chat | phone
Chinook
Articles
Reserves
Research Guides
Site Search
Keyword
Title
Author
Subjects
Call Number
 Search for articles using databases: Find Articles & More 
Instructor
Course
Home
Research Resources
Chinook Library Catalog
Find Articles & More
Course Reserves / E-Reserves
CU Digital Library
Digital Asset Library (DIAL)
Research & Subject Guides
Interlibrary Loan (ILL)
...more>> 
About the Libraries
How do I?
Hours
Job & Career Opportunities
Libraries & Departments
Maps, Parking & Tours
Faculty & Staff Directories
Support the Libraries!
...more>>
Services
Borrowing Materials
For Faculty
Library Instruction
My Chinook
Off-Campus Access
Shortcuts
Subject Specialists
...more>>
Libraries & Departments
Access Services
Acquisitions
Administrative Services
American Music Research Center
Archives
Art & Architecture Collection
Business Library
Cataloging and Metadata Services
Circulation
Collection Development
Dean of Libraries
Earth Sciences Library
East Asian Library
Engineering Library
Friends of the Library
Government Publications Library
Interlibrary Loan (ILL)
Map Library
Math Physics Library
Music Library
Norlin Library
Outreach
Preservation
Public Services
Research & Instruction
Reserves
Science Library
Security
Special Collections
Systems
Technical Service
Libraries A to Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Government Publications Library
govpubs@colorado.edu
  303-492-8834 (ph) 
  303-492-1881 (fx) 
  Norlin Library, Third Floor 
 
Home
Hours
About
Map
Staff
Quick search 
 
Find articles & more
Search Gov. Pubs. Library web pages
GPO Access
Google US Search
USAGov
Tax Forms
Web resources
 
Subject Guides
US/State/Local Govts
Foreign/International
Using Our Collections
Library Catalogs
GovPubs Databases
A-Z List
Statistical
U.S./State
International/Foreign
Other links 
 
Depository libraries resources
FAQ
GovPubs Blog
 
University Libraries > Libraries
  & Departments  > Government Publications > Foreign Information by Country >
Country background
Malaysia
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Malaysian  Government Information
Malaysia Government's Official Portal
Provides information and links on history, politics, government, education, employment, economy, culture, religion, languages, and travel.
Central Bank of Malaysia 
Department of Statistics Malaysia  
Malaysian National News Agency (BERNAMA) 
  State-run news agency.
Ministries of the Malaysian Government
Ministry of Finance, Malaysia 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Malaysia 
Office of the Prime Minister
Parliament of Malaysia
        Provides information on the activities of the Senate and House of Representatives. 
Radio Televisyen Malaysia 
        State-run radio and television. 
Tourism Malaysia
        Official site of the Malaysia Tourism Promotion Board (Malaysian Ministry of Culture, Arts and  Tourism).
Government Information | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Country Profiles  
APEC Individual Action Plan - Republic of Malaysia 
        Report updated annually by each Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Member Economy recording its actions that help realize the APEC goal.
Australian Government - Malaysia 
        Country profile, economic and trade information, and foreign relations from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
BBC News Profile - Malaysia
        A guide to history, politics and economic background of countries from BBC News.
CIA World Factbook - Malaysia 
Country profile provides information on country background, geography, people, government, communications, transportation, military, and transnational issues. 
FAO and Malaysia 
Information on economic and agricultural issues from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). It also has a good selection of maps.
Human Development Report on Malaysia 
Provides quick statistics on human development, economy, labor force, and population from the United Nations Development Programme. Country factsheet is also available. 
Human Rights Watch - Malaysia
        Country background, news and reports related to human rights. 
IAEA - Malaysia
Country factsheet on multilateral and safeguard agreements from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 
IEA - Malaysia  
  Country information, energy-related statistics,  graphs and publications from the International Energy Agency (IEA).
    
Southeast Asian (ASEAN)
        Regional information on the ten countries of Southeast Asia (Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos,  Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam)  that constitute the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
IMF - Malaysia 
        Country information, reports and publications from the International Monetary Fund. 
India Foreign Relations Brief - Malaysia  
        Country briefs from India's Ministry of External Affairs.
ITC - Malaysia
Country-specific trade and market profiles, map, and trade  statistics from the International Trade Centre (ITC). 
Library of Congress - Malaysia 
        Country portal and resources compiled by the Library of Congress subject experts. 
OHCHR - Malaysia 
        Country background, treaties, reporting status, calendar of events and publications related to human rights from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner on Human Rights (OHCHR).
UNESCO Worldwide - Malaysia  
Highlights cooperation between the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and its Member States.
  
UNESCO Communication & Information - Malaysia  
      Country profile, news and links to related projects and websites. 
UNESCO Education Worldwide - Malaysia 
      Education statistics, publications, plans, ministries, and news for Member States. 
UNESCO Institute for Statistics - Malaysia 
A selection of national statistics on education, literacy, science and technology, culture, and communication. 
UNESCO Office Jakarta 
      Cluster Office representing UNESCO in  Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, and Timor Leste.
UNESCO World Heritage - Malaysia 
      Cultural and natural heritage properties and documents on the World  Heritage List.
UNFPA Country Profile - Malaysia 
"The United Nations Population Fund ( UNFPA) supports countries in using population data for policies and programmes to reduce poverty and to ensure that every pregnancy is wanted, every birth is safe, every young person is free of HIV/AIDS, and every girl and woman is treated with dignity and respect."
UNFPA - Malaysia  
    Country program for Malaysia.
United Kingdom's Foreign and Commonwealth Office - Malaysia 
        Country profile covering history, politics, economy, human rights, relations with the UK, and travel.
United Nations Country @ a Glance - Malaysia 
        Country overview, news, economy, environment, health and technology from the United Nations Cyberschoolbus. 
United Nations Statistics Division: Environment Snapshot - Malaysia
Country snapshots offer national environment statistics.
United Nations Statistics Division: National Accounts - Malaysia 
        "Statistics database contains a complete and consistent set of time  series from 1970 onwards of main national accounts aggregates for all UN Members States and all other countries and areas in the world."
U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Statistics - Malaysia
U.S. 
      trade in goods (imports, exports and balance) with Malaysia. 
U.S. Commercial Service - Malaysia 
      Country profile about doing business abroad by the Commercial Service,  the global business solutions unit of the Department of Commerce.
U.S. Department of Energy - Malaysia 
Country energy profile for production, consumption, U.S. oil imports, and CO2 emissions. 
  
U.S. Department of Energy - Malaysia
      Country analysis report from the Energy Information Administration.        
U.S. Department of Energy - South China Sea
      Regional analysis report from the Energy Information Administration for South Asia (China,   Taiwan, the   Philippines,   Vietnam,   Indonesia,   Malaysia,   Brunei,   Cambodia, and   Thailand).
Government Information | Country Profiles | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Articles and Databases 
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Declassified Documents 
        Declassified information available from the FOIA Electronic Reading Room.
        Enter "Malaysia" as the search terms.
        
National Intelligence Council (NIC) Declassified Documents 
              Database of intelligence  reports, National Intelligence Estimates, and other  publications produced by the National Intelligence Council or its  predecessor organizations, the Office of National Estimates and  the Office of Reports and Estimates since 1946.
Crisis Group International Databases and Resources 
        Crisis Group provides analysis of violent conflicts and peace implementation.
        
CrisisWatch Database 
          Monthly bulletin of significant situations of conflict or potential conflict around the  world.
CRS Reports - LexisNexis Congressional CU 
        The Congressional Research Service (CRS), the research arm of Congress,   prepares reports (usually under 20 pages long) on topics of interest to members of Congress. Enter "Malaysia" as the search term.
Declassified Documents Reference System CU 
        Search this database to find declassified documents related to Malaysia. 
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)
        Department of Defense Scientific and Technical Reports Collection provides access to citations to unclassified unlimited documents that have been entered into DTIC's Technical Reports (TR) Database, as well as the electronic full-text of many of these documents. The site also includes databases that focus on individual topics.
Digital National Security Archive CU 
        Database of primary declassified documents  regarding critical U.S.   policy decisions. Enter "Malaysia" as the search term. 
Facts on International Relations and Security Trends (FIRST) 
        An integrated database containing information on armed conflicts and  peace keeping, arms production and trade, military expenditure, armed  forces and weapons.
Global Legal Information Network (GLIN)
        "Public database of official texts of laws, regulations, judicial  decisions, and other complementary legal sources contributed by  governmental agencies and international organizations."
International Area Studies Asia CU
        Collection of databases from the University of Colorado covering Asia. 
International Area Studies General CU
Collection of general databases from the University of Colorado covering international issues.
International Area Studies Statistics CU
        Collection of international statistics databases from the University of Colorado. 
LexisNexis Academic Country & Region Reports CU
        News, country briefings, and country risk guides. Filter by country or choose "Country & Region Reports" from publication type. 
SESRTCIC Statistics Database 
        Searchable statistical database for member countries from the Statistical, Economic and Social Research and Training Centre for  Islamic Countries (SESRTCIC),  a subsidiary organ of  the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC).
Statistical Database System (SDBS) Online
        SDBS is the the Asian  Development Bank's central statistical database that stores  macro-economic and social data of its developing member countries.
UNdata 
        UNdata provides a single entry point  allowing users to search and download numerous statistical resources of the United Nations System.
WDI Online CU
        World Development Indicators (WDI) online 
        contains statistical data on the global economy from the 
        World Bank.
Worldwide Incidents Tracking System (WITS)
        WITS is the National Counterterrorism Center's database of terrorist  incidents. The WITS database coverage is  currently from 1/1/2004 to 6/30/2007 and is updated quarterly.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Diplomatic Relations 
Diplomacy, Programs and Aid
Asian Development Bank - Malaysia
        Projects, publications, and news about Malaysia and the ADB.
Association of Southeast Asian Nations - Malaysia
ASEAN  promotes regional economic growth, social progress, cultural  development, and peace and  stability.
Commonwealth of Nations - Malaysia
"The Commonwealth is an association of 53 independent states  consulting and co-operating in the common interests of their peoples  and in the promotion of international understanding and world peace.  The Commonwealth's 2 billion citizens, about 30 per cent of the world's  population, are drawn from the broadest range of faiths, races,  cultures and traditions."
D-8 - Malaysia 
        "D-8, also known as Developing-8,  is an arrangement for development cooperation among the following  countries: Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Nigeria,  Pakistan and Turkey."
Delegation of the European Commission to Malaysia 
        The Delegations of the External Service serve European Union interests throughout the world.
Embassy of Malaysia in Washington, DC
        Diplomatic representation of Malaysia in the United States. 
Embassy of the United States in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia  
        Diplomatic representation of the U.S. in Malaysia.
EU's Relations with the Republic of Malaysia 
        Overview, country strategy, EU support, and documents on the European Union's relations with Malaysia. 
Group of 15 
The G-15, a summit level group of developing countries, facilitates national efforts for development and economic progress of member states. There are 18 member countries: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Venezuela, and Zimbabwe. 
G-77 at the United Nations
        The Group of 77 is an intergovernmental organization of developing states in the UN. It provides the means for the countries of the South to articulate  and promote their collective economic interests and enhance their joint  negotiating capacity on all major international economic issues within  the United Nations system, and promote South-South cooperation for  development. There are now 130 member states (including Malaysia), although the name G-77 was retained because of its historical significance. 
Islamic Development Bank
"The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) is a Multilateral Development Bank  (MDB), established to foster the economic development and social  progress of its member countries and Muslim communities in non-member  countries in accordance with the principles of Shari'ah (Islamic Law). There are 56 member countries (including Malaysia). 
Permanent Mission of Malaysia to the United Nations
        Website of member state missions and their representatives to the United Nations.
ReliefWeb - Malaysia 
        ReliefWeb, administered by the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), provides news, documents, maps, and background information on emergency assistance by country. 
SESRTCIC - Malaysia 
        Socioeconomic statistics and information for member countries from the Statistical, Economic and Social Research and Training Centre for  Islamic Countries (SESRTCIC),  a subsidiary organ of  the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC).
UNHCR - Malaysia  
        News, operations, statistics, background, analysis and policy, and maps from the  Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Malaysia
        UNDP helps countries work toward human rights, democratic governance, poverty reduction, crisis prevention and recovery, energy and environment for sustainable development, and HIV/AIDS prevention.
United Nations Division for Sustainable Development - Malaysia
Economic, social and environmental   policies and plans for sustainable development from the UN Department Economic and Social Affairs. 
U.S. Department of State - Malaysia
        U.S.-Malaysian relations, humanitarian assistance, reconstruction, and country background notes.
          
Background Notes  - Malyasia  
              Provides country background and  foreign policy information for the American public from the Department of State's Bureau of Public Affairs.
World Bank - Malaysia
World Bank data, projects, and research in Malaysia.
World Trade Organization - Malaysia 
        Provides key information on trade statistics, WTO commitments, disputes, trade policy reviews, and notifications for member countries.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Health
UNAIDS - Malaysia 
        Country situation analysis and news from the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS.
WHO - Malaysia 
        Information and statistics on the status of public health in Malaysia from the World Health Organization (WHO).
WHO-WPRO 
Official site of the World Health Organization Western Pacific Regional Office (WHO-WPRO). 
Country Health Information Profile - Malaysia  
    Health situation analysis in Malaysia.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Resources in the Catalog | Related Topics
Peacekeeping and Military Information 
International Court of Justice (ICJ)
ICJ is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. ICJ "has a twofold role: to settle, in accordance with international law, legal disputes submitted to it by States (Contentious cases ) and to give advisory opinions (Advisory proceedings) on legal questions referred to it by duly authorized United Nations organs and specialized agencies."
2003: Sovereignty over Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle Rocks and South Ledge (Malaysia/Singapore)
1998: Sovereignty over Pulau Ligitan and Pulau Sipadan (Indonesia/Malaysia)
Malaysia: Security Assistance
        Country-by-country listing provides information on Political-Military-administered security assistance funds from the Bureau of Political-Military Affairs. 
Mutual Assistance Programme (MAP)
Defense assistance from New Zealand for  Brunei, Cook Islands, Malaysia, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Tonga,  Vanuatu, and Western Samoa.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Related Topics
Resources in the Catalog 
The Library Catalog, Chinook
There are numerous secondary, federal, and international sources of information on Malaysia available in the
     collection.
Try these searches to see some of the resources in Chinook, the library catalog:
Electronic Resources
Print and Electronic Resources
malaysia and econom*
malaysia and econom* 
malaysia and histor*
malaysia and histor* 
malaysia and politic* 
malaysia and politic* 
malaysia (government publications only)
malaysia (government publications only)
The * replaces up to five characters in a word.
    For additional foreign information, arranged by subject, see the Subject Page.
Government Information | Country Profiles | Articles & Databases | Diplomatic Relations | Health | Peacekeeping & Military Information | Resources in the Catalog
Related Topics 
Brunei Darussalam: Country Guide 
Foreign Relations and International Aid
Indonesia: Country Guide 
Singapore: Country Guide 
Thailand: Country Guide 
 
Contact University Libraries: email |  chat |  phone 
University Libraries, 184 UCB, 1720 Pleasant Street, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309-0184
Libraries Information 303-492-8705 | Research & Instruction 303-492-7521
© Regents of the University of Colorado