Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance1,842 FollowersRecent papers in Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleDziałania miejskich DMO wobec perspektywy zjawiska overtourism [ACTIVITIES OF URBAN DMOs IN THE PERSPECTIVE OF OVERTOURISM]Współcześnie, gdy miasta na świecie są najbardziej popularne jako destynacje turystyczne, zachodzi konieczność wypracowania dobrych praktyk w zakresie zarządzania rozwojem turystyki na ich obszarach. Niekontrolowany wzrost turystyki... moreWspółcześnie, gdy miasta na świecie są najbardziej popularne jako destynacje turystyczne, zachodzi konieczność wypracowania dobrych praktyk w zakresie zarządzania rozwojem turystyki na ich obszarach. Niekontrolowany wzrost turystyki masowej może doprowadzić do przekroczenia progów pojemności turystycznej oraz wielu negatywnych skutków, jak niezadowolenie mieszkańców i konflikty społeczne, przeciążenie infrastruktury czy spadek atrakcyjności obszaru recepcji. Celem rozdziału jest rozpoznanie innowacyjnych metod zarządzania rozwojem turystyki na obszarach miejskich wobec długofalowej perspektywy powstania zjawiska overtourismu. W tym celu zastosowano metodę analizy źródeł wtórnych i postawiono pytanie badawcze: jakie działania powinny podejmować miejskie destination management organisations (DMO), aby zapobiec powstaniu overtourismu, jednocześnie tworząc jakościowe warunki rozwoju turystyki w mieście. W toku analizy stwierdzono następujące kluczowe działania DMO: (1) stworzenie kompleksowej bazy danych, (2) planowanie długoterminowe, (3) współpraca na płaszczyźnie komercyjnej, publicznej i społecznej, (4) poszukiwanie nowych źródeł finansowania, (5) rozpraszanie ruchu turystycznego w czasie i przestrzeni.Nowadays, when cities are the most popular destinations, it is necessary to develop good practices in the management of tourism development in urban areas. The uncontrolled increase of mass tourism may lead to exceeding the thresholds of carrying capacity and to many negative consequences, such as residents’ dissatisfaction and social conflicts, overloaded infrastructure or decrease in the attractiveness of destination. The aim of the paper is to identify innovative organization methods in tourism management in the urban areas in the long-term perspective of the overtourism phenomenon. For this purpose, the method of secondary sources analysis was applied and a research question was posed: what operations should be undertaken by the urban destination management organizations (DMO) to prevent the overtourism situation creating qualitative conditions for the tourism development in the city? The following key DMO activities were identified during the analysis: (1) creation of a comprehensive fact base, (2) long-term planning, (3) cooperation in the commercial, public and social spheres, (4) search for new sources of funding, (5) tourists’ dispersal in time and space.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anna Polgert•  3  Urban Tourism, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, overtourismPLANO DIRETIVO DE NEGÓCIOS: PROPOSTA DE COMUNICAÇÃO E MARKETING TURÍSTICO PARA A ESTÂNCIA TURÍSTICA DE AVARÉA Proposta de Comunicação e Marketing da Estância Turística de Avaré, será desenvolvida para estruturar sua imagem de forma competitiva diante do mercado de destinos turístico a fim de consolidar características do turismo praticado e... moreA Proposta de Comunicação e Marketing da Estância Turística de Avaré, serádesenvolvida para estruturar sua imagem de forma competitiva diante do mercado de destinosturístico a fim de consolidar características do turismo praticado e evoluir nos aspectos dehospitalidade, infraestrutura para o turismo, capacitação profissional e sua promoção turística.O planejamento estratégico de marketing parte do princípio de que o futuro é incerto, ebaseado nos dados do Diagnóstico de Marketing e Opinião do município de Avaré(comunidade, demanda e trade), coletado no decorrer do ano de 2011, a marca da cidade nãoé atrativa para os turistas e para os moradores e conforme observado tampouco é utilizada deconstante.O projeto de desenvolvimento do Manual de Comunicação da Marca da Estância teráconsistência para assimilar a realidade existente e adaptar-se rapidamente e eficientemente aosnovos objetivos previstos para desenvolver as novas oportunidades identificadas a curto,médio e longo prazo, e assim representar um guia de trabalho e utilização da marca quecontemple um período de tempo necessário para sua fixação e reconhecimento por parte dosatores do turismo e turistas.Os especialistas de marketing não criam as necessidades, apenas identificam-nas e juntocom outras forças sociais, despertam e influenciam os desejos das pessoas. Pensando nessaperspectiva a Proposta de Comunicação e Marketing Turístico visa utilizar de forma criativa aMarca Turística da Estância, a fim de reposiciona-la e também de promover os diferentesaspectos positivos do município com o intuito de alavancar o número de turistas e a qualidadedo turismo praticado para a cidade, promovendo a Represa Jurumirim, que é seu principalatrativo, agregando serviços combinados e conscientizando os turistas de seu papel e suaimportância para a condução sustentável da Estância Turística como destino receptivo dequalidadeSave to LibraryDownloadby Thaís Colicchio•  4  Tourism Marketing, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Destination Marketing and Branding, Avaré BrasilThe mediation of tourism experiences through storytelling in social media: How DMOs can utilise consumer storytelling in their brand narrativesPeople are increasingly connecting in online social networks where they share content and experiences and consequently influence each other’s perceptions and buying behaviour. This poses a distinct challenge for the tourism sector and... morePeople are increasingly connecting in online social networks where they share content and experiences and consequently influence each other’s perceptions and buying behaviour. This poses a distinct challenge for the tourism sector and destination management organisations in particular, as they are responsible for branding and marketing a destination. This thesis conceptualise social media as fluid performative spaces of storytelling. The concepts performance, performativity, mobility and power form a theoretical framework that facilitates an analysis of the politicised storytelling mechanisms in online social networks. It is suggested that DMOs surrender control of the brand and instead concentrate on collaborating with social media storytellers. This may lead to a strengthening of destination narratives.Save to LibraryDownloadby Niels Frederik Lund•  7  Tourism Studies, Performance Studies, Mobility/Mobilities, PerformativityTurismo Gastronómico. La gestión de las DMOs en la promoción turística en línea de gastroregiones europeas.El presente estudio busca dar a conocer el patrimonio industrial que ha sido puesto en valor turístico en la provincia de Imbabura – Ecuador. Este patrimonio está constituido por el Tren de la Libertad, la Fábrica Textil Imbabura y el... moreEl presente estudio busca dar a conocer el patrimonio industrial que ha sido puesto en valor turístico en la provincia de Imbabura – Ecuador. Este patrimonio está constituido por el Tren de la Libertad, la Fábrica Textil Imbabura y el Ingenio azucarero San José que en el pasado cumplían una función industrial y hoy en díason usados como recursos turísticos. El tema es relativamente nuevo en el Ecuador debido a que no se conoce a este país como “industrializado” por lo que podría resultar interesante para los amantes del patrimonio industrial exótico. Dentro de lasconclusiones se mencionan las conexiones pre-industriales de los patrimonios antes mencionados y la aceptación que en los últimos años está teniendo el turismo industrial en la zona norte.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jaime Iturralde•  7  Cultural Heritage, Social Networking, Cultural Tourism, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceThe emergence of the DMO concept in Japan: Confusion, contestation and acceptanceDestination marketing and/or management organizations (DMOs) have been acknowledged as an essential component of the tourism system. However, the ability of DMOs to manage and coordinate destination development in contemporary society is... moreDestination marketing and/or management organizations (DMOs) have been acknowledged as an essential component of the tourism system. However, the ability of DMOs to manage and coordinate destination development in contemporary society is now being questioned by scholars. The focus of this regional spotlight paper is Japan, a country that has recently turned to tourism as the tool to facilitate economic growth. The paper examines the early emergence of the registered DMO program introduced by the Japanese government in 2015, with a particular focus on how the concept of DMO is being adopted and understood by tourism practitioners at local tourism destinations across the country. Offering insights into the ways the concept of DMO is understood, experienced and employed in Japan, a non-Western context, the paper contributes to the international debate concerning the future role of DMOs globally.  Keywords: DMO, governance, Japan, strategic planning, marketing, managementSave to LibraryDownloadby Adam Doering•  2  Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Japanese tourismTurismo e terremoto: analisi degli impatti sismici sui flussi turistici a Castelluccio di Norcia.
Proposte per la ripartenza e la riqualificazione del settore.Turismo e terremoto: un tema poco considerato a livello nazionale, eppure si tratta di un argomento che dovrebbe essere centrale in una nazione come l’Italia, un territorio ad alta vocazione turistica, ma geomorfologicamente ad alto... moreTurismo e terremoto: un tema poco considerato a livello nazionale, eppure si tratta di un argomento che dovrebbe essere centrale in una nazione come l’Italia, un territorio ad alta vocazione turistica, ma geomorfologicamente ad alto rischio sismico. L’assunto che si porta alla luce è il rapporto tra turismo e terremoto in una micro-realtà turistica, uno zoom che aiuta ad evidenziare l’importanza di attuare politiche governative e di Destination Management che considerino il forte legame, in alcune località, tra l’economia del turismo e la diseconomia del terremoto. Castelluccio di Norcia è un piccolo villaggio appenninico che si trova in Umbria. Luogo di contadini e di pastori transumanti, data alla sua conformazione geografica e alla fisica lontananza da altri borghi, questo borgo rimase isolato per molti secoli, mantenendo immutato il proprio Genius Loci, e riuscendo a tramandare, di generazione in generazione, il proprio modus vivendi. Tuttavia, l’economia castellucciana assistette ad una brusca trasformazione nel giro di soli 60 anni, passando dall’economia agricola a quella turistica. Case e stalle furono trasformate in strutture ricettive o di ristorazione; contadini e pastori, in imprenditori. Quando, il 24 agosto del 2016, il paese fu colpito dalla prima scossa sismica, la destinazione era al suo topos turistico: quasi tutti i settori pastorali-agricoli erano stati o completamente assorbiti dall’industria dei viaggi o erano fortemente complementari ad essa. Infatti, fino a quel giorno il 68% delle attività economiche castellucciane dipendeva direttamente dalle entrate monetarie del settore dei viaggi, mentre il restante 32% poteva contare sulla ricchezza indiretta o indotta proveniente da questa industria. Va da sé che, quando Castelluccio di Norcia venne distrutto dalla scossa del 30 ottobre 2016, insieme ai suoi edifici e alla sua storia crollarono anche l’economia e i flussi turistici. Questo è il secondo punto focale di questi elaborato, e cioè l’analisi degli impatti sismici sui flussi turistici in questa località. Dal 2010 ad oggi la storia turistica di Castelluccio è stata contraddistinta da 3 fasi: -quella ante-sismica, che coincide con una crescita della domanda e dell’offerta; -quella dell’anno del sisma, caratterizzata da danni turistico-economici contenuti e in cui si ha una piccola contrazione dei flussi; -quella post-sismica, caratterizzata da danni turistico-economici gravi dove i flussi turistici sono quasi inesistenti e dove le entrate monetarie sono scarse se non assenti. Partendo dal secondo punto elencato, quando la prima scossa ha colpito il paese i danni turistico-economici sono stati essenzialmente due: quelli correlati alla fuga turistica e alla successiva cancellazione delle prenotazioni da parte degli imprenditori locali. Tutto questo comportò un crollo della domanda e delle presenze, per il 2016, pari rispettivamente al 22% e al 32%, e una perdita economica minima pari a 36 mila euro. Lo scenario economico diventa più cupo con la scossa del 30 ottobre, i cui effetti sono tutt’ora visibili e tangibili. Per quanto riguarda il 2017, questa era la situazione in cui versava l’offerta turistica locale: l’82,2% delle strutture ricettive, il 95% dei ristoranti, il 71% delle attività agricole essenziali o connesse, e il 50% delle attività di leisure erano (e sono) inagibili. In termini economici questo significa una perdita annua oltre il milione e mezzo di euro lordi. Dal lato della domanda, vi è stato un crollo degli arrivi pari al 94% rispetto al 2016 (anno in cui vi era già stato un calo del -22% rispetto al 2015). La motivazione a queste cifre negative è da rintracciare, in primo luogo, nell’inagibilità delle strutture ricettive e alla conseguente mancanza di posti-letto, e in secondo luogo, al limitato numero di giorni lavorativi delle strutture, che sono stati 90. Secondo i 150 individui che hanno visitato Castelluccio nel primo anno post-sisma (2017), tra le maggiori problematiche turistiche figurano la chiusura delle strade, la mancanza di sicurezza, il ridotto numero dei posti-letto, la presenza delle macerie e la mancanza di un’area attrezzata per camper e roulotte. È su questi punti e su altri che si sono sviluppate le proposte per la ripartenza e la riqualificazione del settore in questo piccolo borgo che ha vinto il titolo di “piccolo Tibet Italiano”. Infatti, il terzo e ultimo obiettivo di questo elaborato è stato quello di tracciare 13 linee-guida di breve, medio e lungo termine che mitighino le criticità individuate nel ante e post sisma, e avanzino idee utili a sviluppare le opportunità non sfruttate.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deborah Caponecchi•  20  Tourism Studies, Tourism Management, Tourism Planning and Policy, Destination ManagementAn exploratory study of Performance Management Systems and their influence on better performance -A literature review Sabnam Shaji RazackThis paper through literature review attempts to explore different types of Performance Management Systems prevalent in organizations across the UAE and to find out its influence on employees for better performance. The paper proposes an... moreThis paper through literature review attempts to explore different types of PerformanceManagement Systems prevalent in organizations across the UAE and to find out itsinfluence on employees for better performance. The paper proposes an extensiveorganized assessment of PMS design on the basis of established theories; presentingboth concepts and frameworks that feature on the ground. It also suggests for morestudies on a complete PMS framework and screening of PMS related to development ofboth, competence and innovation resulting in long-term employee retention. Byanalyzing various PMS designs it is concluded that PMS has to be designed effectivelyin such a way that is contingent on both internal and external variables. Both thefinancial performance measures and non-financial performance measures are assessedtogether, the link between PMS and Strategic Organizational objectives should beratified through various methods of PM mechanisms.Save to LibraryDownloadby Amitabh Upadhya•Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceAssessing impact of internal marketing on business performance: Doctoral dissertation summaryObjectives of the dissertation: 1. To understand how DMOs (Destination Management Organization) internally market themselves. 2. To develop and standardize the measures to evaluate internal marketing in case of destinations. 3. To analyse... moreObjectives of the dissertation:1. To understand how DMOs (Destination Management Organization) internally market themselves.2. To develop and standardize the measures to evaluate internal marketing in case of destinations.3. To analyse and understand the relationship between internal marketing and destination performance.4. To recommend to destination managers and planners ways and means to improve destination performance (for internalcustomers).Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Rahul Pratap Singh Kaurav•  3  Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, India, Internal MarketingAnalysing performance of DMO. Data collected June 2020, covid.As the tourism industry becomes more competitive, the role that the Destination Management Organization (DMO) undertakes, becomes central. The DMO determines the direction for the Destination Development (DD) and defines targets. Tourism... moreAs the tourism industry becomes more competitive, the role that the Destination Management Organization (DMO) undertakes, becomes central. The DMO determines the direction for the Destination Development (DD) and defines targets. Tourism Destination Management (DM) has a strong impact in tourism within a given destination. DM uses various planning tools, methodologies and approaches that provide the direction for daily operations for activities related to tourism (e.g. branding, market research). Among the most important tools are the market segmentation and its research. This study examines the management of the destination with the case study of Athens, Greece, as well as the DMO called "This is Athens & Partners" that undertakes the DD. Data samples from the DMO and arbitrary visitors of the studied destination were collected for qualitative and quantitative analysis. Moreover, we apply experiential consumption theory and marketing research processes for destinations development theory. Further, we use them for the examination of existing strategies and DD’s direction of "This is Athens & Partners". Additionally, the Correspondence Analysis (CA) has been used as the method for evaluation of correlations in the collected data samples. The analysis of the acquired data and results of CA have revealed potential points for improvements for selecting the target market by the DMO. The approach selected by the studied DMO is not entirely confirmed by our findings, which suggest several potential directions in DD, and key target markets. The results obtained from the CA analysis show a clear correlation of the visitors' activities and their choice of the attractions. Mismatch of existing attractions with the current market demand has to be resolved for better performance of the destination in the competitive market conditions in future.Save to LibraryDownloadby anastasia volokhova•  6  Tourism Marketing, Destination Management, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Destination BrandingDMOs (Destination Marketing Organizations) and Branding:  A case study of Corfu Island (in Greece)Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaos Kaloudis•  2  Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Tourism Destination MarketingConcepts and Models for Contemporary Urban TourismSave to LibraryDownloadby Alberto Amore•  5  Urban Regeneration, Urban Tourism, Tourism Destination Image and Development, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceSmart Tourism Destination Branding & Marketing (IJTC Call for papers)This special issue has now been published (Dec 2019). For free access (until 30 January 2020) to its editorial article, go to:... moreThis special issue has now been published (Dec 2019). For free access (until 30 January 2020) to its editorial article, go to: https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/IJTC-12-2019-163/full/pdf?title=marketing-smart-tourism-cities-a-strategic-dilemma   For access to the whole special issue, go to: https://www.emerald.com/insight/publication/issn/2056-5607/vol/5/iss/4Save to LibraryDownloadby J. Andres Coca-Stefaniak•  74  Marketing, Urban Geography, Tourism Marketing, Social MarketingNeuhofer, B., Buhalis, D., Ladkin, A., 2012. Conceptualising technology enhanced destination experiences. Journal of Destination Marketing & Management, 1(1–2): 36-46.The notion of creating rich and memorable experiences for consumers constitutes a prevalent concept in the tourism industry. With the proliferation of destination choices and increasing competition, it has become critical for destinations... moreThe notion of creating rich and memorable experiences for consumers constitutes a prevalent concept in the tourism industry. With the proliferation of destination choices and increasing competition, it has become critical for destinations to find innovative ways to differentiate their products and create experiences that provide distinct value for the tourist. However, currently two major paradigm shifts are drastically changing the nature of experiences, the understanding of which is crucial for destinations to create successful experiences in the future. Experiences are transforming as (a) consumers now play an active part in co-creating their own experiences and (b) technology is increasingly mediating experiences. Despite the amount of literature recognising the impact of technology on experiences, a holistic conceptualisation of this change is missing. This paper thus raises the need to conflate the two-fold paradigm shift and calls for new reflections on the creation of experiences. The aim is to explore technology as a source of innovation to co-create enhanced destination experiences. The paper contributes on three levels: by introducing and conceptualising a new experience creation paradigm entitled Technology Enhanced Destination Experiences, by proposing an extended destination experience co-creation space in the pre/during/post phases of travel and by discussing managerial implications of this development for the future creation and management of experiences in a destination context.Save to LibraryDownloadby Barbara  Neuhofer•  18  Information Technology, Tourism Studies, Tourism Marketing, Tourism ManagementGESTIÓN PÚBLICA DEL TURISMOPresentation given in Tuxtla Gutierrez, Chiapas, Mexico on April, 20 in the CHIAPS CHAIR OF TOURISM - CATEDRA CHIAPAS DE TURISMO, organized by the CITA of the Universidad Autónoma de ChiapasSave to LibraryDownloadby Oriol  Miralbell Izard•  7  Tourism Management, Tourism Planning and Policy, Destination Management, Sustainable TourismDo Smart Tourism Destinations Really Work? The Case of BenidormSmart Destinations (SDs) have gained momentum in tourism research, but despite the growing body of literature devoted to the topic, some critical dimensions continue to be under-researched. Real fulfilment of two of the main objectives of... moreSmart Destinations (SDs) have gained momentum in tourism research, but despite the growing body of literature devoted to the topic, some critical dimensions continue to be under-researched. Real fulfilment of two of the main objectives of SDs, namely enhancing tourists’ experiences and improving destinations management, remains largely unknown. By taking as a relevant case the destination of Benidorm, its smart destination strategy and solutions, this paper investigates whether and how these smart destination efforts are actually transforming destination management, marketing processes and tourists’ experiences. Through a sequence of qualitative methods including (i) documentary and other secondary data analysis, (ii) in-depth interviews with DMO representatives and key informants and (iii) in-depth interviews with tourists visiting the destination, rich data was obtained, systematically analysed and triangulated. The findings pose critical lessons for destinations in their transition towards smartness, especially for policy-makers, and shed light on the effects of smart solutions on tourist experiences.Save to LibraryDownloadby Francisco Femenia-Serra•  4  The tourist experience, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Smart Tourism and Smart City, Smart Tourism DestinationsLocalising the city: The new turn in DMO campaigning – making residents locals calls for host-making activities to solve the DMO's tasks for tomorrow's urban destinationIn recent years, a turn in DMO campaigning and management decisions is noticeable-a turn from the traditional tourism value chain perspective towards a focus on 'the locals'. From a tourist perspective – or through 'the tourist gaze' –... moreIn recent years, a turn in DMO campaigning and management decisions is noticeable-a turn from the traditional tourism value chain perspective towards a focus on 'the locals'. From a tourist perspective – or through 'the tourist gaze' – residents are now perceived as locals. They are part of the destination and as such they are a resource. The importance of the host-guest relation becomes evident in such DMO campaigns, and the hypothesis in this paper is therefore that a strengthened focus on host-making activities at DMO level is to be seen as a competitive resource. With current DMO-turns as inspiration, the paper includes considerations on the development of the future tasks of the DMOs based on host-making activities for the DMO aiming to facilitate host/guest-encounters. Track Be inspired by new and emerging hospitality and tourism sectorsSave to LibraryDownloadby Palle Nørgaard and +1Dorthe Simonsen•  8  Tourism Studies, Tourism Management, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, City BrandingEnrichissement des expériences de la destination par la technologiePlusieurs destinations cherchent à se différencier en mettant en scène des expériences touristiques. Il devient cependant de plus en plus difficile d'ignorer le fait que l'évolution et la prolifération des technologies confèrent aux... morePlusieurs destinations cherchent à se différencier en mettant en scène des expériences touristiques. Il devient cependant de plus en plus difficile d'ignorer le fait que l'évolution et la prolifération des technologies confèrent aux consommateurs le pouvoir de mieux contrôler et d'adapter leurs expériences touristiques et de se transformer en de véritables acteurs de la destination. Il devient alors fondamental pour les organisations de gestion de la destination (OGD) de s'adapter à cettenouvelle réalité du marché en considérant les consommateurs en tant que cocréateursde leurs expériences touristiques et de chercher à comprendre le rôle de la technologiedans la cocréation de ces expériences. Face à l'émergence de ces nouveaux paradigmes, Neuhofer et al. (2012) proposent un nouveau modèle de la destination:l' enrichissement des expériences de la destination par la technologie.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alain Sévigny•  8  Tourism Marketing, Consumer Behavior, Etourism, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceAnalysing tourism destination promotion through Facebook by Destination Marketing Organizations of IndiaToday, the promotion of tourism destinations is evident through social media as tourists have become content creators and influencers. Destination Marketing Organizations (DMOs) promote destinations through various social media platforms... moreToday, the promotion of tourism destinations is evident through socialmedia as tourists have become content creators and influencers.Destination Marketing Organizations (DMOs) promote destinationsthrough various social media platforms of which Facebook, Twitter, andYouTube are common. Of these platforms, Facebook is widely used forpromotion, consumer research, and customer service, which makes itthe foremost choice of DMOs for destination promotion. In India, theState and Union Territory tourism departments act as DMOs. The studyexplores how Indian DMOs strategically employ Facebook to promotetheir destinations. Six months’ data were collected from the Facebookpages of 32 DMOs for content analysis. Semi-structured interviews wereconducted with seven managers of tourism departments. The Jammuand Kashmir and Kerala DMOs have shown high user engagementthrough firm-generated content (visual content and informative posts).The findings conclude that DMOs are using Facebook as a supplementto traditional marketing tools and rarely for customer service andresearch. DMOs benefit from the contents of scenic beauty, culture, andcuisine which appeal more to engage users on Facebook pages.Further, implications for management and managerial actions havebeen suggested.Save to LibraryDownloadby Prem Kumar•  8  Facebook, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Tourism Destination Marketing, Social Media MarketingAthens as an international tourism destination: An empirical investigation to the city’s imagery and the role of local DMO’sDOI: 10.13140/2.1.3231.1683 INDEPENDENT STUDΥ - THESIS " Athens as an international tourism destination: An empirical investigation to the city’s imagery and the role of local DMO’s.” The aim of this project was to identify the... moreDOI: 10.13140/2.1.3231.1683 INDEPENDENT STUDΥ - THESIS " Athens as an international tourism destination: An empirical investigation to the city’s imagery and the role of local DMO’s.” The aim of this project was to identify the role of DMOs in promoting Athens as a tourist destination, as well as to evaluate their effectiveness in terms of marketing and managing the tourist product of Athens, its popularity and imagery.  The aim of this thesis is to identify the role of DMOs in promoting Athens as a tourist destination, as well as to evaluate their effectiveness in terms of marketing and managing the tourist product of Athens, its popularity and imagery. For that purposes, 6 personal interviews were conducted with executives who were working in 6 famous local DMOs operating both generally in Greece and specifically in Athens.  The result of this study indicated that DMOs are playing a crucial role for the promotion of Athens as a tourist destination. DMOs key responsibilities include: development of sophisticated online marketing strategies, creation of high quality published material, participation in international tourism fairs for developing relationships with key stakeholders and development of network synergies with airline companies, and international tourism organizations.  Athens is a destination with great potential for future growth and for that reason DMOs have designed certain plans for the next three years in order to exploit the opportunities which are presented. The future plans of the DMOs give particular emphasis in the opening in new tourist markets and more particularly in the markets of Russia, Turkey China, and USA. Besides, DMOs will focus in five forms of tourism which can be developed successfully in Athens, namely: 1) cultural tourism, 2) health tourism, 3) luxury tourism, 4) city break tourism, and 5) convention tourism On the other hand, the executives of the DMOs underlined several problems which prevent the tourism development of Athens. The majority of these problems are related with the business environment in Greece which has become less competitive due to the crisis. Besides, the city as a destination faces the problems of seasonality as well as missing infrastructures.  Finally, the research showed that DMOs have established strong and long term relationships with DMOs in foreign countries. These partnerships allow the Greek DMOs to be updated concerning the trends of the global tourism market as well as enhance the movement of tourists between cooperating countries. Nevertheless, the promotion of Athens as a tourism destination requires a more concerted effort between the public and the private stakeholders which are involved in the tourism industry. The benefits will be multiplied for businesses, the state and the society in general. Keywords & terms: Destination Marketing Organizations, DMO’s, tourism destination, tourist product, popularity & imagery, interviews, online marketing strategies, Athens, Greece, international tourism fairs, stakeholder relationships, network synergies, airline companies, future growth, tourist markets, cultural tourism, health tourism, luxury tourism, city break tourism, convention tourism, tourism development of Athens, business environment in Greece, seasonality, infrastructuresSave to LibraryDownloadby Spyros Langkos•  48  Management, Marketing, Tourism Studies, Tourism MarketingThe power of social media storytelling in destination brandingA large part of the global population is now connected in online social networks in social media where they share experiences and stories and consequently influence each other's perceptions and buying behaviour. This poses a distinct... moreA large part of the global population is now connected in online social networks in social media where they share experiences and stories and consequently influence each other's perceptions and buying behaviour. This poses a distinct challenge for destination management organisations, who must cope with a new reality where destination brands are increasingly the product of people's shared tourism experiences and storytelling in social networks, rather than marketing strategies. This article suggests a novel interpretation on how these online social networks function with regard to generating engagement and stimulating circulation of brand stories by offering a conceptual framework based on the sociological concepts of storytelling, performance, performativity, and mobility. These concepts are characterised as 'technologies of power', for their role in shaping the social mechanisms in social media. VisitDenmark, the DMO of Denmark, is used as a case to put the framework into practice. The case demonstrates how DMOs can use the framework to strengthen their social media branding, and five practical recommendations for how to do so are provided.Save to LibraryDownloadby Niels Frederik Lund and +1Scott Cohen•  26  Marketing, Tourism Studies, Tourism Marketing, Social NetworksThe role of DMO in marketing tourist destination The role of DMO in marketing tourist destinationSave to LibraryDownloadby Azamat Suyundikov•  5  Sustainable Tourism, Tourism Destination Image and Development, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Tourism Destination MarketingLAPORAN PENDAHULUAN HEMORARGI POST PARTUM.docxSave to LibraryDownloadby ardi dian•Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceValoración del desarrollo turístico gastronómico a través de las páginas web oficiales de los países de SudaméricaHoy el turismo gastronómico es un apasionante campo de estudio. Varios países buscan ser atractivos debido a su patrimonio gastronómico, sin embargo, es muy difícil determinar cuál de ellos está haciendo lo mejor para convertirse en un... moreHoy el turismo gastronómico es un apasionante campo de estudio. Varios países buscan ser atractivos debido a su patrimonio gastronómico, sin embargo, es muy difícil determinar cuál de ellosestá haciendo lo mejor para convertirse en un destino turístico gastronómico. El objetivo de esta investigación es evaluar el desarrollo del turismo gastronómico de los países de América del Sur pormedio de sus sitios web oficiales. La metodología se basó en una valoración a través del método de conteo, compuesto por 41 indicadores de tipología general, que miden la naturaleza del valor agregadoen una cadena de valor. Los resultados son impresionantes porque, aunque hay varios esfuerzos de las OGD de los países de América del Sur para promover el turismo gastronómico, sus sitios web no lodemuestran, por lo tanto, pierden muchas oportunidades para lograr este objetivo.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jaime Iturralde•  5  Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Food and Gastronomy Tourism, Web Pages, Turismo GastronómicoTourism Innovation Product - Potential of Creative Industries in Mount Batur, Bali (INA)Save to LibraryDownloadby Chandra Daru Nusastiawan•  17  Indonesia, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Tourism, BaliDestination Management Organization of Flores: An Update 2014Kementerian Pariwisata Republik Indonesia (Kempar) mengembangkan 15 lokasi DMO untuk periode 2010-2014. Flores menjadi salah satu destinasi yang diprioritaskan oleh pemerintah, sederhananya oleh karena kekayaan potensi wisata alam dan... moreKementerian Pariwisata Republik Indonesia (Kempar) mengembangkan 15 lokasi DMO untuk periode 2010-2014. Flores menjadi salah satu destinasi yang diprioritaskan oleh pemerintah, sederhananya oleh karena kekayaan potensi wisata alam dan budaya yang beragam di setiap penjuru wilayah dari barat hingga timur. Diatas semua itu, pulau yang menawan seperti Flores ternyata masih membutuhkan model pengelolaan destinasi yang mempertimbangkan konteks ekowisata, dan bukan mass tourism seperti Bali. Program DMO yang berjalan di tahun terakhirnya 2014 dalam periode pertama, telah mengalami dinamika di lapangan. Stakeholder destinasi sungguh bergiat untuk daerahnya, namun perlu dipahami pula kegiatan tata kelola destinasi DMO Flores juga membutuhkan upaya integratif untuk menggabungkan pengelolaan menyeluruh satu pulau Flores, dan bukan promosi per wilayah kabupaten.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anastasia Manuella•  3  Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Flores Island, PariwisataParticipatory destination management and creative tourism: From co-production of tourism products to co-creation of experiences. Α reality and stakeholders' check for Thessaloniki, Greece.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christos Patikas•  11  Tourism Studies, Creativity, Destination Management, GovernanceSocial media as a destination marketing tool: its use by national tourism organisationsSocial media are gaining prominence as an element of destination marketing organisation (DMO) marketing strategy at a time when public sector cuts in their funding are requiring them to seek greater value in the way marketing budgets are... moreSocial media are gaining prominence as an element of destination marketing organisation(DMO) marketing strategy at a time when public sector cuts in their funding are requiringthem to seek greater value in the way marketing budgets are spent. Social media offersDMOs with a tool to reach a global audience with limited resources. The aim of thisstudy is to explore the usage of social media among the DMOs of the top 10 mostvisited countries by international tourists. The study uses content analysis and semistructuredinterviews to examine the usage and impact of social media marketingstrategies and identifies a framework of best practice for other national tourismorganizations (NTOs) to learn from. The study argues that social media usage amongtop DMOs is still largely experimental and that strategies vary significantly.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gizem Kavurmacı•  6  Tourism Management, Social Media, Facebook, TwitterSOCIAL MEDIA AS A MARKETING TOOL FOR GREEK DESTINATIONSDestination Marketing Organizations (DMOs) have to redefine their marketing strategies, in order to meet current challenges in tourism, such as the emergence of new tourism destinations, the intense competition, the change in the... moreDestination Marketing Organizations (DMOs) have to redefine their marketing strategies, in order to meet current challenges in tourism, such as the emergence of new tourism destinations, the intense competition, the change in the motivations and preferences of tourists, as well as the global economic crisis. On the other hand, social media are gaining prominence, as a cost effective marketing tool with high returns. In this respect, the aim of this paper is to investigate the use of social media among 325 municipalities in Greece for destination marketing purposes. The results show that Greek municipalities just begin to recognize the added value of this new marketing trend, since social media exploitation is still very limited and largely experimental. Subsequently, the social media strategy of the Greek Municipality of Ierapetra – 'Visit Ierapetra' – is analyzed and presented. In the analysis, social media usage patterns were identified that could serve as good practices for other municipalities in Greece, at a time when public sector cuts in their funding are requiring them to seek greater value in the way marketing budgets are spent. Findings and discussion of this study are useful to industry practitioners and academic researchers interested in the use of social media in destination marketing.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaos Trihas•  5  Facebook, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Social Media Marketing, GreeceDestination Governance: opportunità e difficoltà nella realizzazione di un evento culturale. Il caso del Festival dei Luoghi e delle Emozioni.Per riuscire a valorizzare una destinazione turistica, è importante che le risorse culturali e ambientali caratteristiche, le diverse attività proposte e gli attori che vi operano siano coordinati ed integrati tra di loro, per offrire un... morePer riuscire a valorizzare una destinazione turistica, è importante che le risorse culturalie ambientali caratteristiche, le diverse attività proposte e gli attori che vi operano sianocoordinati ed integrati tra di loro, per offrire un sistema locale di offerta turistica(SLOT).In questa trattazione si è cercato di individuare il modello più adatto alla gestione delladestinazione, di analizzare le opportunità e le difficoltà che possono manifestarsidurante il processo di pianificazione. Nella letteratura questo tema è stato affrontatomettendo a confronto due estremi teorici: corporate model e community model. Inparticolare, essi hanno contribuito alla creazione di due modelli organizzativi attuatinella realtà: Destination Management e Destination Governance. Quest’ultimo si basasul concetto di network, cioè un sistema a rete, che fa sì che si creino dellecollaborazioni tra i diversi stakeholders, in particolare tra il settore pubblico e quelloprivato.Tali riflessioni sono state applicate ad un caso empirico: il Festival dei Luoghi e delleEmozioni. La progettazione di tale evento culturale è stata analizzata prima dal punto divista dell’offerta, poi da quella della domanda. Nel primo caso, l’indagine è avvenutaattraverso la partecipazione a diversi tavoli di lavoro; mentre, l’analisi della domanda èstata effettuata tramite la somministrazione di un questionario, volto a indagare lasoddisfazione del visitatore verso il festival.In seguito a tale ricerca, si è costatato che il modello di Destination Governance è unabuona prassi da attuare alle realtà locali con determinate caratteristiche. Perché ilmodello abbia successo, è necessario avere delle solide conoscenze manageriali chepermettano di ottenere i massimi risultati in termini di efficacia ed efficienza.Save to LibraryDownloadby Silvia Furci•  8  Tourism Studies, Tourism Marketing, Tourism Management, Destination ManagementNetwork Analysis of Destination Management Organization Smart Tourism Ecosystem (STE) for E-Branding and Marketing of Tourism DestinationsIn the current decade, there is a drastic increase in the active social network users which simultaneously raised the interest of destination management organizations (DMOs) to increase their e-visibility on social network sites (SNS),... moreIn the current decade, there is a drastic increase in the active social network users which simultaneously raised the interest of destination management organizations (DMOs) to increase their e-visibility on social network sites (SNS), specifically to promote their tourism destinations. The main aim of DMOs is to reach the target market and create a brand image of the destination to increase the tourist footfalls. The purpose of this chapter will be to analyze the utilization of Instagram as a network of smart tourism ecosystem by state tourism boards in India. The network analysis will be done between state tourism boards by using UCINET 6 which is a software package developed for social network analysis. This chapter will give an insight into the Instagram account used by states tourism boards for the promotion of their respective tourist destinations. The findings of the study will help to improve the utilization of SNS for online content creations, managing the social media campaigns, marketing, branding and promotions of tourism destinations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr. Jeet Dogra•  8  Destination Management, Branding, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Tourism Destination MarketingAthens as an international tourism destination: An empirical investigation to the city’s imagery and the role of local DMOsDissertation/Thesis Presentation The aim of this project was to identify the role of DMOs in promoting Athens as a tourist destination, as well as to evaluate their effectiveness in terms of marketing and managing the tourist product... moreDissertation/Thesis Presentation The aim of this project was to identify the role of DMOs in promoting Athens as a tourist destination, as well as to evaluate their effectiveness in terms of marketing and managing the tourist product of Athens, its popularity and imagery.  ABSTRACT The aim of this thesis is to identify the role of DMOs in promoting Athens as a tourist destination, as well as to evaluate their effectiveness in terms of marketing and managing the tourist product of Athens, its popularity and imagery. For that purposes, 6 personal interviews were conducted with executives who were working in 6 famous local DMOs operating both generally in Greece and specifically in Athens.  The result of this study indicated that DMOs are playing a crucial role for the promotion of Athens as a tourist destination. DMOs key responsibilities include: development of sophisticated online marketing strategies, creation of high quality published material, participation in international tourism fairs for developing relationships with key stakeholders and development of network synergies with airline companies, and international tourism organizations. Athens is a destination with great potential for future growth and for that reason DMOs have designed certain plans for the next three years in order to exploit the opportunities which are presented. The future plans of the DMOs give particular emphasis in the opening in new tourist markets and more particularly in the markets of Russia, Turkey China, and USA. Besides, DMOs will focus in five forms of tourism which can be developed successfully in Athens, namely: 1) cultural tourism, 2) health tourism, 3) luxury tourism, 4) city break tourism, and 5) convention tourism  On the other hand, the executives of the DMOs underlined several problems which prevent the tourism development of Athens. The majority of these problems are related with the business environment in Greece which has become less competitive due to the crisis. Besides, the city as a destination faces the problems of seasonality as well as missing infrastructures. Finally, the research showed that DMOs have established strong and long term relationships with DMOs in foreign countries. These partnerships allow the Greek DMOs to be updated concerning the trends of the global tourism market as well as enhance the movement of tourists between cooperating countries. Nevertheless, the promotion of Athens as a tourism destination requires a more concerted effort between the public and the private stakeholders which are involved in the tourism industry. The benefits will be multiplied for businesses, the state and the society in general.Save to LibraryDownloadby Spyros Langkos•  35  Destination Management, Cultural Tourism, Modern Greece, Destination ImageManaging destination brand architecture – The case of Cascais MunicipalityBranding is a complex concept to apply to a destination. One of the main challenges is the functional definition of the brand. Which area does the destination brand cover? It is relevant to acknowledge that political borders of a... moreBranding is a complex concept to apply to a destination. One of the main challenges is the functional definition of the brand. Which area does the destination brand cover? It is relevant to acknowledge that political borders of a destination are not necessarily the same as the destination brand borders. The present article is a case study, which was a result of a consulting project requested by the Municipality of Cascais. Cascais is located in the Lisbon metropolitan area of Portugal. Described are the challenges faced by the Cascais Municipality in adapting its brand portfolio to a new context and different environment.Quantitative methodology was applied to understand the relevance of four destination brands for the tourism industry in the Cascais Municipality. A questionnaire was developed and applied in Spain and Britain, the two main tourist markets for the Cascais Municipality. From the research, it could be concluded that nationality influences the evaluation of destinations. It was also concluded that the environment where a brand exists is dynamic, not static. Therefore, the strategy developed for a brand has to be adaptable. This means that the brand role and mission might change over the years. Future investments and support for certain destination brands must be constantly questioned.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joao R Freire•  11  Destination Management, Destination Image, Tourism Destination Image and Development, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceNeuhofer, B., Buhalis, D. and Ladkin, A. 2014. A Typology of Technology-Enhanced Tourism ExperiencesExperiences constitute the essence of the tourism industry. While literature has recognised the recent impact of technology on experiences, its empirical exploration remains scarce. This study addresses the gap by empirically exploring... moreExperiences constitute the essence of the tourism industry. While literature has recognised the recent impact of technology on experiences, its empirical exploration remains scarce. This study addresses the gap by empirically exploring five leading industry cases to generate a holistic understanding of technology enhanced tourism experiences. The main contribution of this paper lies in the development of a nine-field experience typology matrix based on the increasing intensity of co-creation and technology implementation. The final contribution of this study is the development of an experience hierarchy and discussing its relevance for experience enhancement in tourism research and practice.Save to LibraryDownloadby Barbara  Neuhofer•  17  Information Technology, Tourism Studies, Tourism Marketing, Services Marketing and ManagementDestination Management: Consensus for CompetitivenessDestination management plays a crucial role in marketing, proper organization of tourist visits and fulfilment and exceeding of the visitors' expectations. Understanding the concept and models of destination management and applying those... moreDestination management plays a crucial role in marketing, proper organization of tourist visits and fulfilment and exceeding of the visitors' expectations. Understanding the concept and models of destination management and applying those may eventually define the competitiveness of the destination.The understanding of the role of the Destination management organisations (DMOs) have shifted and expanded from exclusively marketing activities to the other fields. Most of the definitions related to destination management describe it as the process that includes decisions taken on different levels which ensure commercialisation of the incoming tourism. The flow shall be managed properly, in agreement with local service providers and residents (which are often excluded) and it shall be focused on satisfying the expectations of the tourists. Destination management allows destination to be managed and marketed also by providing platform for public-private partnerships.Destination management on any level (either performed by NTO, regional or local DMO) needs to be based on consensus-building among the stakeholders and strategic planning and management of destination in its totality, providing enough flexibility for adaptation to the changes in the environment. DM addresses marketing of the destination, delivery of superb services to tourist, but also ensures favourable conditions for development of products and tourism.The intention of this paper is to stress the importance of the destination management in the contemporary tourism and to emphasise the added value creation process. Beside the concept and models, the paper will explore and possibly give concrete proposals for the overall destination management of the specific location in Bosnia and Herzegovina.Save to LibraryDownloadby Renato Zrnic and +1jasmina osmankovic•  6  Competitiveness (Economics), Destination Management, Sustainable Tourism, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernancePolity, policy and destination management: an exploratory study of political systems and management of tourism with special reference to the GCC countriesAbstract: Tourism, the dynamic and viable industry that it is, remains majorly dependent upon the adoption of an approach to strategic planning and formulation of policies for achieving successful destination management. This study... moreAbstract: Tourism, the dynamic and viable industry that it is, remainsmajorly dependent upon the adoption of an approach to strategic planning andformulation of policies for achieving successful destination management. Thisstudy hypothesises upon the concept that the political system of a countryinfluences its structure of tourism governance and tourism developmentpolicies. The study investigates and analyses the nature and structure of tourismgovernance in the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries namely,Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait and Bahrain besidesa few more for a comparative analysis. The study examines the role of state indeveloping and nurturing tourism in the light of tourism development policieswithin their respective countries. This is an exploratory study combined withcase studies, used for analysing governance of tourism in the selected countries.The study notes that political environment of a country plays a major role inmanagement of tourism.Keywords: political system; tourism management; governance; policy;destination management organisation; DMO; Gulf Cooperation Council; GCC.Save to LibraryDownloadby Amitabh Upadhya•  2  Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Governance and TourismThe living lab approach to raise innovation capability among tourism practitionersThe fragmented nature of the tourism industry and the ease of copying tourism innovation limit destinations' capacities and motivations to innovate. To counter this fragmentation, destinations rely on destination management organisations... moreThe fragmented nature of the tourism industry and the ease of copying tourism innovation limit destinations' capacities and motivations to innovate. To counter this fragmentation, destinations rely on destination management organisations (DMOs). However, DMOs have had very little or no success in stimulating innovation, hence the importance of exploring other models, such as living labs (LLs), to boost the innovation capability of tourism stakeholders. LLs are " physical regions or virtual realities in which stakeholders form public-private-people partnerships (PPPP) of firms, public agencies, universities, institutes, and users all collaborating for creation, prototyping, validating, and testing of new technologies, services, products, and systems in real-life contexts " (Westerlund and Leminen 2012: 7). Innovation takes place iteratively and over a long period of time. This paper analyses the innovation capability of a group of tourism stakeholders involved in action research through a LL aimed at co-creating an experience enhanced by technology. It argues that the co-creation processes at work in the LL have raised innovation capability by using a combination of technology-supported innovation processes and in situ innovation processes. It also illustrates the central role played by the academic stakeholders. Alain Sévigny holds a Master of Business Administration (MBA) and has worked in tourism and technology for many years. He is currently completing graduate studies in Tourism Management and Development, focusing on technology and the tourist experience at the destination level.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alain Sévigny and +1David Guimont•  8  E Tourism, Technological Innovation, Open Innovation, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceDeveloping ecotourism destinations in Romania.   A case study approachRomania has an outstanding natural and cultural heritage which is not yet valorised to its full potential through ecotourism. In order to do so, the existence of green tourism businesses is not enough to assure authentic ecotourism... moreRomania has an outstanding natural and cultural heritage which is not yet valorised to its full potential through ecotourism. In order to do so, the existence of green tourism businesses is not enough to assure authentic ecotourism experiences. Ecotourism principles and guidelines need to be applied and reinforced by all stakeholders: businesses, governmental authorities and NGOs, with the aim of developing ecotourism destinations. In this context, the present paper uses a case study approach to outline the challenges of developing these ecotourism destinations in Romania. Several initiatives and projects are outlined as well as their work in progress.Save to LibraryDownloadby Adina Nicoleta Candrea•  5  Destination Management, Stakeholders, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Ecotourism and Sustainable DevelopmentMARKETINGOVÁ KOMUNIKÁCIA TURISTICKÝCH INFORMACNÝCH CENTIER/ Promotion of TICsThe thesis deals with the application of theory to the practical level in the field of promotion of tourist information centers. The result of the thesis is highlighting the importance of the founding organization in charge of tourist... moreThe thesis deals with the application of theory to the practical level in the field of promotion of tourist information centers. The result of the thesis is highlighting the importance of the founding organization in charge of tourist information centers and its impact on marketing activities throught tourist information centers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrea Bogdanyova•  6  Marketing, Promotions, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Online MarketingSultanat OmanSave to LibraryDownloadby Filip Kocevski•  19  Tourism Studies, Tourism Marketing, Tourism Management, Heritage TourismTransformation of destination leadership networks (2018). Tourism Management Perspectives, 28, 239-250.A B S T R A C T This paper investigates the transformation of a destination leadership network within a new funding and gov-ernance landscape for Destination Management Organisations (DMOs) and destinations in England. Current... moreA B S T R A C T This paper investigates the transformation of a destination leadership network within a new funding and gov-ernance landscape for Destination Management Organisations (DMOs) and destinations in England. Current longitudinal evidence into the transformation of destination leadership networks and emergent Distributed Leadership (DL) in the literature domain of DMOs and destinations is thin. This study adopts a longitudinal case study and ego-network Social Network Analysis (SNA) approach, drawing on the perspectives of the founding and current Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of a DMO coupled with semi-structured expert interviews with policy makers from VisitEngland. Longitudinal data findings provide useful insights into the transformation of DMOs and their wider networks through the enactment of DL in order to cope with change and uncertainty.Save to LibraryDownloadby Haywantee Ramkissoon (PhD)•  4  Organizational Change, Leadership, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, SNA (Social Network Analysis)ОПОЗНАВАТЕЛНИТЕ ТУРОВЕ КАТО ИНСТРУМЕНТ ЗА НАЦИОНАЛЕН ТУРИСТИЧЕСКИ МАРКЕТИНГ EXPEDIENT TOURS AS TOOL FOR NATIONAL TOURISM MARKETINGFamiliarization tours are integral part of marketing mix and communication policy for enhancement of the effectiveness of national marketing and destination marketing organization (DMO). The organization and conduction of familiarization... moreFamiliarization tours are integral part of marketing mix and communication policy for enhancement of the effectiveness of national marketing and destination marketing organization (DMO). The organization and conduction of familiarization tours, along with the participation at tourist exhibitions and fairs are part of communication and distribution policy, object of evaluation both at national level, as well as from point of view of different stakeholders. Present paper aims to evaluate the familiarization tours and their effects for national tourism marketing during the last three years in Bulgaria. As a result, outlined are the main challenges and question to be answered about the selection of participants, routs and tourist places to be visited. Ключови думи: опознавателни (експедиентски) турове, национален туристически маркетинг, ефективност, организация,ОМД, дестинация По дефиниция " националният туристически маркетинг " е управленски процес, чрез който оторизираните от държавата органи идентифицират своите целеви пазари – действителни и потенциални; комуникират с тях с цел въздействие върху техните желания, потребности, мотивация и предпочитания на национално или международно ниво; търси оптимално обвързване между ресурсите на дестинацията и възможностите на обкръжаващата среда т.е. фокусира се върху добавената стойност и ползите за крайните потребители с цел постигане на максимална удовлетвореност на туристическите потребности, като при това постига своите собствени стратегически интереси. Такива за повечето страни са представяне и утвърждаване като туристическа дестинация, нарастване на нетните приходи чрез привличане на платежоспособни туристопотоци, намаляване на сезонността, разширяване на пазарните позиции на чрез диверсификация на предлагания продукт и други. Националния туристически маркетинг е съвкупността от маркетингови дейности, осъществявани от оторизираните от държавата официални органи за управление на туризма, за представяне на страната като туристическа дестинация, внушаване на добър облик, привличане на туристопоток и развитието й като туристически пазар. В редица страни дейностите, свързани с националния туристически маркетинг са предмет на специализирани органи – организации за маркетинг на дестинацията (ОМД). Като част от разработване и изпълнението на функционалните маркетингови стратегии (комуникационна, дистрибуционна, ценова и продуктова) и съответстващите имSave to LibraryDownloadby Sonia Mileva•  2  Tourism Marketing, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceGovernance and partnership in tourism development: On the elusiveness of participation in tourismNatural resources and regional development theory (2013), Lundmark & Sandström (eds.), GERUM report 2013-12-02, Department of geography and economic history Umeå University ABSTRACT During the last twenty years, destination... moreNatural resources and regional development theory (2013), Lundmark & Sandström (eds.), GERUM report 2013-12-02, Department of geography and economic history Umeå UniversityABSTRACTDuring  the  last  twenty  years,  destination  development  has  become  a  much  trusted remedy for rural areas suffering from out-migration of human and economic capital. As an effect of the rising trust in governance and organizational methods originating from   the   market,   the   public   sector   has   invited   civil   and   private   actors   into partnerships – and   vice   versa.   Many   of   those   partnerships   are   performed   as externally funded projects with limitations in time and would therefore require much preparation in order to create best outcome of investments. The purpose of this paper is  to  explore  two  aspects  of  what  is  often  referred  to  as  the  complexity  of  tourism, both  based  on  the  actor-perspective  of  tourism  production,  namely  the  challenge  in delimitating tourism and the changing relation between public and private spheres in society. The elusiveness referred to in the title is an aggravating circumstance in both cases, regarding exactly who can be involved in a process of destination development.A conceptual model is presented as a suggestion of ways to raise the awareness of the actors involved of the complexities surrounding them.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kajsa G Åberg•  5  Tourism Studies, Tourism Geography, Tourism Destination Image and Development, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceLa stratégie de destination intelligente, facteur clé des mutations des destinations touristiques vulnérables ?The smart destination strategy, a key factor for changes in vulnerable tourist destinations: Tourism becomes an increasingly competitive market. The challenge of destinations relies on the capacity to reinvent oneself. This paper analyses... moreThe smart destination strategy, a key factor for changes in vulnerable tourist destinations:Tourism becomes an increasingly competitive market. The challenge of destinations relies on the capacity to reinvent oneself. This paper analyses le concept of tourism destination as a strategic tool for tourism development. We propose a form of territorial organization based on quintuple helix model. This one allows to ensuring the necessary agility for the success of a tourist mutation.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Perrain•  8  Tourism Management, Destination Management, Governance, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceDestination marketing organizations and climate change: the need for leadership and education. Destination Marketing Organizations (DMOs) operate at many levels ranging from the national to the municipal and have evolved over the years to respond to the geographical and political realities that are associated with tourism supply.... moreDestination Marketing Organizations (DMOs) operate at many levels ranging from the national to the municipal and have evolved over the years to respond to the geographical and political realities that are associated with tourism supply. Alongside providing information to potential visitors, DMOs work to make a destination attractive by showcasing its unique aspects and attractions. As the appeal of destinations, cost of doing business and the destination brand may be affected by the possible effects of climate change, this study aims to identify opportunities and threats to municipal and provincial/territorial DMOs and their members as well as identify measures they are undertaking to address the potential impacts. A study conducted of Canada’s provincial and municipal large DMOs was conducted in 2009. This research found that awareness of climate change in Canada’s tourism industry is increasing, but more efforts must be undertaken to mitigate climate change. To address climate change and tourism, this paper suggests doing three things: (a) DMOs need to demonstrate leadership about climate change education and mitigation to all their members; (b) government policy and action are needed to provide incentives for industry to address climate change; and (c) industry members require further education to take the steps necessary mitigate risk and to adapt. The internet has changed the DMOs’ roles and how they provide information to the consumer; as such, they have been presented with an opportunity to take on new roles as educational and marketing providers. This paper will outline in the current shifts among Canadian DMOs and will discuss the key issues that are applicable to DMOs worldwide.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rachel  Dodds•  6  Climate Change, Leadership, Sustainable Tourism, Climate Change Adaptation And Mitigation StrategiesHristov, D., & Ramkissoon, H. (2016). Leadership in destination management organisations. Annals of Tourism Research, 61, 230-234.Save to LibraryDownloadby Haywantee Ramkissoon (PhD)•  3  Social Network Analysis (SNA), Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Distributed LeadershipArchetypes of destination governance: a comparison of international destinationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Francesca d'Angella•  2  Governance, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceMobile Marketing of the Brazilian Tourist Board: Case Study of Brazil Mobile ApplicationMobile technologies are emerging as an important distribution platform for mobile tourism (mtourism). The aim of this study is to investigate the mobile marketing of the Brazilian government to promote the country as an international... moreMobile technologies are emerging as an important distribution platform for mobile tourism (mtourism). The aim of this study is to investigate the mobile marketing of the Brazilian government to promote the country as an international tourism destination. This paper presents a preliminary analysis of travel guide application (app) for mobile devices named Brazil Mobile, launched by the Brazilian Tourist Board (EMBRATUR). Brazil Mobile app containstravel guides versions to various cities, which include the majority host cities for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. The research methods used were a literature review, and a content analysis of travel guide app related to six aspects: Accessibility; Information; Interactivity; Entertainment; Navigation, and Transactional. It may be possible to conclude that Brazil Mobile app offers basic content to travellers. Thus, it would become more interesting if could explore mobile marketing features as interactivity, customisation, transactional, and entertainment according to the tourists preferences.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cynthia Correa•  3  Travel & Tourism, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Mobile MarketingCreating Specialist Destination Marketing Organisations for the Promotion of Special-Interest TourismDestination Marketing Organisations (DMOs) have been operating for many decades both at the national level (e.g. national tourism boards) and the local level (e.g. convention & visitors bureaux of cities). Most DMOs follow a broad market... moreDestination Marketing Organisations (DMOs) have been operating for many decades both at the national level (e.g. national tourism boards) and the local level (e.g. convention & visitors bureaux of cities).  Most DMOs follow a broad market approach by trying to attract many types of tourists and by promoting diverse travel experiences in their respective regions. Some DMOs, however, focus their marketing effort solely on a specific market segment or promote only a certain form of special-interest tourism. The governments of some countries have encouraged not only the creation of such specialist DMOs but vigorously promoted and funded the formation of an entire portfolio of specialist DMOs, with each one aiming at growing a specific form of tourism and a specific market segment such as in the field of rural tourism, sports tourism, city breaks, outdoor activities etc. Countries that pioneered the launch of these so-called “product clubs” or “marketing associations” are France, Austria, Canada and, to a lesser extent, Germany. In order to understand the way these specialist DMOs operate, to assess the experience gained in these countries and to propose an organisational model for creating a specialist DMO, a survey has been conducted among 50 organisations of this type in the aforementioned countries. To complement the findings of the survey, a detailed content analysis was also conducted that covered resources of these DMOs (such as their websites, promotional literature, statutes and bylaws etc.). This paper analyses the organisational and operational characteristics of the surveyed organisations and their marketing activities based on the research findings of both the survey and the content analysis and proposes ways of introducing a specialist DMO in a country such as in Greece.     CITATION:Kalogera, Chr. and Koutoulas, D. (2009). Creating Specialist Destination Marketing Organisations for the Promotion of Special-Interest Tourism. Proceedings of the International Scientific Conference on Tourism Development and Management organized by the Leeds Metropolitan University, the Cyprus University of Technology and the Croatian Institute of Tourism, Kos Island, Greece, 11-14 September 2009 [ISBN: 978-9963-9799-0-5]Save to LibraryDownloadby Dimitris  Koutoulas•  5  Tourism Marketing, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Greece, Special interest tourismDETERMINANTS OF THE EXPENDITURE OF TOURIST DEMAND IN COASTAL DESTINATIONSThe aim of this work is to analyze the determinants of tourist expenditure in Monte Hermoso, a destination located in the southwest of the province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Tourist surveys were administered during the austral summer... moreThe aim of this work is to analyze the determinants of tourist expenditure in Monte Hermoso, a destination located in the southwest of the province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Tourist surveys were administered during the austral summer (January-February) and considered as primary information. Socioeconomic and trip-related variables were selected to explain the determinants of the average total expenditure of tourists in this destination. The Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) method was applied. From the results obtained, it was determined that the level of income, origin, group size, and type of accommodation are the regressors that best demonstrate the spending behavior of the destination's domestic demand. Therefore, it is possible to identify the most attractive demand segments that contribute to improving competitiveness and increasing the rate of return of the destination.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cecilia Rodriguez•  15  Tourism Management, Destination Management, Travel & Tourism, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) GovernanceTop Italian Mountain destinations Marketing strategies set up by the Hotel Trade Association in Trentino, Italy. Padova University PressThis paper presents several innovative territorial marketing projects set up by the Hotel Trade Association of Trentino (ASAT) in the top Italian Mountain destinations, in order to support Destination Management stragies, in partnership... moreThis paper presents several innovative territorial marketing projects set up by the Hotel Trade Association of Trentino (ASAT) in the top Italian Mountain destinations, in order to support Destination Management stragies, in partnership with the DMO. These strategies aim to create an added value for guests and to increase the competitiveness of the destination,Save to LibraryDownloadby Monica Basile•  5  Tourism Marketing, Destination Management Organisation (DMO) Governance, Public Private Partnerships, Mountain TourismNextLast »Related TopicsTurystykaFollowFollowingDestination ManagementFollowFollowingVisitor Attraction Development and ManagementFollowFollowingTourism Destination MarketingFollowFollowingTourism Destination Management&governanceFollowFollowingMega EventsFollowFollowingTourism Community DevelopmentFollowFollowingTourism demandFollowFollowingVisitor studiesFollowFollowingCross-Cultural CommunicationFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023