Neapolitan language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Distribution
2Classification
3Alphabet and pronunciation
Toggle Alphabet and pronunciation subsection
3.1Vowels
3.2Consonants
3.3Digraphs and trigraphs
4Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
4.1Definite articles
4.2Indefinite articles
4.3Verbal conjugation
4.4Doubled initial consonants
4.4.1Words that trigger doubling in pronunciation
5See also
6References
7Additional sources
8External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Neapolitan language
87 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuتۆرکجهBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBoarischBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEmiliàn e rumagnòlEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaelgGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaИронItalianoעבריתქართულიКомиKurdîLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureLombardMagyarМакедонскиمصرىNederlandsNedersaksies日本語NapulitanoNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandOccitanپنجابیPapiamentuPicardPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRomânăРусскийСаха тылаᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduScotsSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்TürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt吴语粵語Žemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Italo-Romance language spoken in southern Italy
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Neapolitan language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article needs attention from an expert in Italy or Languages. The specific problem is: Verification and expansion are needed, especially using sources that may not be well-known to non-experts. WikiProject Italy or WikiProject Languages may be able to help recruit an expert. (September 2019)
It has been suggested that  this article should be split into articles titled Neapolitan language, Southern Italian dialects and Neapolitan dialect. (discuss)  (December 2020)
 (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
NeapolitannapulitanoNative toItalyRegionCampaniaEthnicityMezzogiorno ItaliansNative speakers5.7 million (2002)[1]Language familyIndo-European
ItalicLatino-FaliscanRomanceItalo-WesternItalo-RomanceNeapolitanLanguage codesISO 639-2napISO 639-3napGlottologneap1235  Continental Southern Italiansout3126  South Lucanian = (Vd) LausbergSouthern Italo-Romance languagesNeapolitan as part of the European Romance languages[image reference needed]
Neapolitan (autonym: ('o n)napulitano [(o n)napuliˈtɑːnə]; Italian: napoletano) is a Romance language of the Italo-Romance group spoken in Naples. It is named after the Kingdom of Naples, which once covered most of the area, since the city of Naples was its capital. On 14 October 2008, a law by the Region of Campania stated that Neapolitan was to be protected.[2]
Neapolitan, napulitano or napoletano may refer instead to the specific Romance varieties spoken natively in Naples and the immediately surrounding Naples metropolitan area.[3][4]
Distribution[edit]
A Neapolitan speaker, recorded in Italy
Largely due to massive Southern Italian migration in the late 19th century and 20th century, there are also a number of Neapolitan speakers in Italian diaspora communities in the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Mexico, and Venezuela. However, in the United States, traditional Neapolitan has had considerable contact with English and the Sicilian languages spoken by Sicilian and Calabrian immigrants living alongside Neapolitan-speaking immigrants and so the Neapolitan in the US is now significantly different from the contemporary Neapolitan spoken in Naples. English words are often used in place of Neapolitan words, especially among second-generation speakers. On the other hand, the effect of Standard Italian on Neapolitan in Italy has been similar because of the increasing displacement of Neapolitan by Standard Italian in daily speech.
Classification[edit]
Giambattista Basile (1566–1632), author of a collection of fairy tales in Neapolitan that includes the earliest known versions of Rapunzel and Cinderella
Neapolitan is a Romance language and is considered as part of Southern Italo-Romance. There are notable differences among the various dialects, but they are all generally mutually intelligible.
Italian and Neapolitan are of variable mutual comprehensibility, depending on affective and linguistic factors. There are notable grammatical differences, such as Neapolitan having nouns in the neuter form and a unique plural formation, as well as historical phonological developments, which often obscure the cognacy of lexical items.
Its evolution has been similar to that of Italian and other Romance languages from their roots in Vulgar Latin. It may reflect a pre-Latin Oscan substratum, as in the pronunciation of the d sound as an r sound (rhotacism) at the beginning of a word or between two vowels: e.g. doje (feminine) or duje (masculine), meaning "two", is pronounced, and often spelled, as roje/ruje; vedé ("to see") as veré, and often spelled so; also cadé/caré ("to fall") and Madonna/Maronna. Another purported Oscan influence is the historical assimilation of the consonant cluster /nd/ as /nn/, pronounced [nː] (this is generally reflected in spelling more consistently: munno vs Italian mondo "world"; quanno vs 
Italian quando "when"), along with the development of /mb/ as /mm/~[mː] (tammuro vs Italian tamburo "drum"), also consistently reflected in spelling. Other effects of the Oscan substratum are postulated, but substratum claims are highly controversial. As in many other languages in the Italian Peninsula, Neapolitan has an adstratum greatly influenced by other Romance languages (Catalan, Spanish and Franco-Provençal above all), Germanic languages and Greek (both ancient and modern). The language had never been standardised, and the word for tree has three different spellings: arbero, arvero and àvaro.
Neapolitan has enjoyed a rich literary, musical and theatrical history (notably Giambattista Basile, Eduardo Scarpetta, his son Eduardo De Filippo, Salvatore Di Giacomo and Totò). Thanks to this heritage and the musical work of Renato Carosone in the 1950s, Neapolitan is still in use in popular music, even gaining national popularity in the songs of Pino Daniele and the Nuova Compagnia di Canto Popolare.
The language has no official status within Italy and is not taught in schools. The University of Naples Federico II offers (from 2003) courses in Campanian Dialectology at the faculty of Sociology, whose actual aim is not to teach students to speak the language but to study its history, usage, literature and social role. There are also ongoing legislative attempts at the national level to have it recognized as an official minority language of Italy. It is a recognized ISO 639 Joint Advisory Committee language with the language code of nap.
Here is the IPA pronunciation of the Neapolitan spoken in the city of Naples:
English
Neapolitan (Naples)
IPA
Our Father who art in heaven,
Pate nuoste ca staje 'n cielo,
[ˈpɑːtə ˈnwostə ka ˈstɑːjə nˈdʒjeːlə]
hallowed be thy name
santificammo 'o nomme tuojo
[sandifiˈkamm(ə) o ˈnommə ˈtwoːjə]
Thy kingdom come,
faje venì 'o regno tuojo,
[ˈfɑːjə vəˈni o ˈrɛɲɲə ˈtwoːjə]
Thy will be done,
sempe cu 'a vuluntà (t)toja,
[ˈsɛmbə ˈkɑː vulunˈda (t)ˈtɔːjə]
on earth as it is in heaven.
accussì 'n cielo accussì 'n terra.
[akkusˈsi nˈdʒjeːlə akkusˈsi nˈdɛrrə]
Give us this day our daily bread
Fance avé 'o ppane tutte 'e juorne
[ˈfandʒ aˈve o pˈpɑːnə ˈtutt e ˈjwornə]
and forgive us our trespasses
liévace 'e diébbete
[ˈljeːvəʃ(ə) e ˈrjebbətə]
as we forgive those who trespass against us,
comme nuje 'e llevamme a ll'ate,
[ˈkommə ˈnuːjə e lləˈvammə a lˈlɑːtə]
and lead us not into temptation,
nun ce fa spantecà,
[nun dʒə ˈfa ʃpandəˈka]
but deliver us from evil.
e lliévace 'o mmale 'a tuorno.
[e lˈljeːvəʃ(ə) o mˈmɑːl(ə) a ˈtwornə]
Amen.
Ammèn.
[amˈmɛnn(ə)]
Alphabet and pronunciation[edit]
Neapolitan orthography consists of 22 Latin letters. Much like Italian orthography, it does not contain k, w, x, or y even though these letters might be found in some foreign words; unlike Italian, it does contain the letter j. The following English pronunciation guidelines are based on General American pronunciation, and the values used may not apply to other dialects. (See also: International Phonetic Alphabet chart for English dialects.)
All Romance languages are closely related. Although Neapolitan shares a high degree of its vocabulary with Italian, the official language of Italy, differences in pronunciation often make the connection unrecognizable to those without knowledge of Neapolitan. The most striking phonological difference is the Neapolitan weakening of unstressed vowels into schwa (schwa is pronounced like the a in about or the u in upon). However, it is also possible (and quite common for some Neapolitans) to speak standard Italian with a "Neapolitan accent"; that is, by pronouncing un-stressed vowels as schwa or by pronouncing the letter s as [ʃ] (like the sh in ship) instead of /s/ (like the s in sea or the ss in pass) when the letter is in initial position followed by a consonant, but not when it is followed by a dental occlusive /t/ or /d/ (at least in the purest form of the language) but by otherwise using only entirely standard words and grammatical forms. This is not Neapolitan properly, but rather a mere difference in Italian pronunciation.
Therefore, while pronunciation presents the strongest barrier to comprehension, the grammar of Neapolitan is what sets it apart from Italian. In Neapolitan, for example, the gender and number of a word is expressed by a change in the accented vowel, whereas in Italian it is expressed by a change in the final vowel (e.g. luongo [ˈlwoŋɡə], longa [ˈloŋɡə]; Italian lungo, lunga; masc. "long", fem. "long"). These and other morpho-syntactic differences distinguish the Neapolitan language from the Italian language and the Neapolitan accent.
Neapolitan has had a significant influence on the intonation of Rioplatense Spanish, of the Buenos Aires region of Argentina, and the whole of Uruguay.[5]
Vowels[edit]
While there are only five graphic vowels in Neapolitan, phonemically, there are eight.  Stressed vowels e and o can be either "closed" or "open" and the pronunciation is different for the two.  The grave accent (à, è, ò) is used to denote open vowels, and the acute accent (é, í, ó, ú) is used to denote closed vowels, with alternative ì and ù.  However, accent marks are not commonly used in the actual spelling of words except when they occur on the final syllable of a word, such as Totò, arrivà, or pecché, and when they appear here in other positions, it is only to demonstrate where the stress, or accent, falls in some words. Also, the circumflex is used to mark a long vowel where it would not normally occur (e.g. sî "you are").
Letter
IPA
Pronunciation guide
a
/a/~[ɑ]  /ə/
a is usually open and is pronounced like the a in father  when it is the final, unstressed vowel, its pronunciation is indistinct and approaches the sound of the schwa
e
/ɛ/  /e/  /ə/
stressed, open e is pronounced like the e in bet stressed, closed e is pronounced like the a in fame except that it does not die off into ee unstressed e is pronounced as a schwa
o
/ɔ/  /o/  /ə/
stressed, open o is pronounced like the o in often stressed, closed o is pronounced like the o in closed except that it does not die off into oo  unstressed o is pronounced as a schwa
i
/i/  /j/
i is always closed and is pronounced like the ee in meet  when it is initial, or preceding another vowel
u
/u/  /w/
u is always closed and is pronounced like the oo in boot  when it is initial, or preceding another vowel
Consonants[edit]
Letter
IPA
Pronunciation guide
p
/p/[b]
pronounced the same as the p in English spill (not as the p in pill, which is aspirated)voiced after m
b
/b/
pronounced the same as in English, always geminated when preceded by another vowel
t
/t/[d]
dental version of the English t as in state (not as the t in tool, which is aspirated)voiced after n
d
/d/
dental version of the English d
c
/t͡ʃ/~[ʃ]  [d͡ʒ]  /k/  [ɡ]
when followed by e or i the pronunciation is somewhere between the sh in share and the ch in chore, especially after a vowel otherwise it is like the k in skip (not like the c in call, which is aspirated) in both cases voiced after n
g
/d͡ʒ/,  /ɡ/
when followed by e or i the pronunciation is like the g of German, always geminated when preceded by another vowel  otherwise it is like the g in gum
f
/f/
pronounced the same as in English
v
/v/
pronounced the same as in English
s
/s/[d͡z][z]
pronounced the same as in English sound unless it comes before a consonant other than /t d n r l/  pronounced as ds in lads after n  pronounced as English z before d or after n
/ʃ/[ʒ][6]
pronounced sh when followed by a voiceless consonant (except /t/)  zh when followed by a voiced consonant (except /n d r l/)
z
/t͡s/[d͡z]
unvoiced z (not occurring after n) is pronounced like the ts in jetsamvoiced z is pronounced like the ds in lads after n
j
/j/
referred to as a semi-consonant, is pronounced like English y as in yet
l
/l/
pronounced the same as in English
m
/m/
pronounced the same as in English
n
/n/
pronounced the same as in English; if followed by a consonant, it variously changes its point of articulation
r
/r/~[ɾ]
when between two vowels it is sounds very much like the American tt in butter but in reality it is a single tic of a trilled r  when at the beginning of a word or when preceded by or followed by another consonant, it is trilled
q
/kʷ/
represented by orthographic qu, pronounced the same as in English
h
h is always silent and is only used to differentiate words pronounced the same and otherwise spelled alike (e.g. a, ha; anno, hanno)and after g or c to preserve the hard sound when e or i follows (e.g. ce, che; gi, ghi)
x
/k(ə)s/
pronounced like the cks in backs or like the cchus in Bacchus; this consonant sequence does not occur in native Neapolitan or Italian words
Digraphs and trigraphs[edit]
The following clusters are always geminated if vowel-following.
Letter
IPA
Pronunciation Guide
gn
/ɲ/
palatal version of the ni in the English onion
gl(i)
/ʎ/~[ʝ]
palatal version of the lli in the English million, most commonly realized like a strong version of y in the English yes.
sc
/ʃ/
when followed by e or i it is pronounced as the sh in the English ship
Grammar[edit]
Definite articles[edit]
The Neapolitan classical definite articles (corresponding to the English word "the") are a (feminine singular), o (masculine singular) and i (plural for both).
Before a word beginning with a consonant:
Singular
Plural
Masculine/Neuter
’o
’e
Feminine
’a
These definite articles are always pronounced distinctly.
Before a word beginning with a vowel, l’ or ll’ are used 
for both masculine and feminine, singular and plural. Although both forms can be found, the ll’ form is by far the most common.
In Neapolitan, the gender of a noun is not easily determined by the article, so other means must be used.  In the case of ’o, which can be either masculine singular or neuter singular (there is no neuter plural in Neapolitan), the initial consonant of the noun is doubled when it is neuter.  For example, the name of a language in Neapolitan is always neuter, so if we see ’o nnapulitano we know it refers to the Neapolitan language, whereas ’o napulitano would refer to a Neapolitan man.
Likewise, since ’e can be either masculine or feminine plural, when it is feminine plural, the initial consonant of the noun is doubled.  For example, consider ’a lista, which in Neapolitan is feminine singular, meaning "the list."  In the plural, it becomes ’e lliste.
There can also be problems with nouns whose singular form ends in e.  Since plural nouns usually end in e whether masculine or feminine, the masculine plural is often signaled orthographically, that is, by altering the spelling.  As an example, consider the word guaglione, which means "boy" or (in the feminine form) "girl":
Singular
Plural
Masculine
’o guaglione
’e guagliune
Feminine
’a guagliona
’e gguaglione
More will be said about these orthographically changing nouns in the section on Neapolitan nouns.
A couple of notes about consonant doubling:
Doubling is a function of the article (and certain other words), and these same words may be seen in other contexts without the consonant doubled.  More will be said about this in the section on consonant doubling.
Doubling only occurs when a vowel follows the consonant.  No doubling occurs if it is followed by another consonant, such as in the word spagnuolo (Spanish).
Indefinite articles[edit]
The Neapolitan indefinite articles, corresponding to the English a or an, are presented in the following table:
Masculine
Feminine
Before words beginning with a consonant
nu
na
Before words beginning with a vowel
n’
Verbal conjugation[edit]
In Neapolitan there are four finite moods: indicative, subjunctive, conditional and imperative, and three non-finite modes: infinitive, gerund and participle. Each mood has an active and a passive form. The only auxiliary verbs used in the active form is (h)avé (Eng. "to have", It. avere), which contrasts with Italian, in which the intransitive and reflexive verbs take èssere for their auxiliary. For example, we have:
Nap.
Aggio stato a Nnapule ajere.
AUX-HAVE-1st-SING-PRES "be"-PART-PAST "in"-PREP "Naples"-NOUN "yesterday"-ADVERB
It.
Sono stato a Napoli ieri.
AUX-BE-1st-SING-PRES "be"-PART-PAST "in"-PREP "Naples"-NOUN "yesterday"-ADVERB
Eng.
I was in Naples yesterday.
Doubled initial consonants[edit]
In Neapolitan, many times the initial consonant of a word is doubled.  This is called raddoppiamento sintattico in Italian as it also applies to the Italian phonology.
All feminine plural nouns, preceded by the feminine plural definite article, ’e, or any feminine plural adjective, have their initial consonant doubled.
All neuter singular nouns, when preceded by the neuter singular definite article, ’o, or by a neuter singular adjective, have their initial consonant doubled.
In addition, other words also trigger this doubling. Below is a list of words that trigger the doubling of the initial consonant of the following word.
However, when there is a pause after the "trigger" word, the phonological doubling does not occur (e.g. tu sî (g)guaglione, "You are a boy," where sî is a "trigger" word causing doubling of the initial consonant in guaglione, but in the phrase ’e do sî, guaglió? "Where are you from, boy?," no doubling occurs. Neither does doubling occur when the initial consonant is followed by another consonant (other than l or r), e.g. ’o ttaliano "the Italian language," but ’o spagnuolo "the Spanish language," where ’o is the neuter definite article).
This doubling phenomenon happens phonologically (in pronunciation), and the doubling is not required in spelling. The same thing happens in Italian, where multiple words trigger first-consonant doubling, e.g. la casa but a (c)casa, io e (t)te, etc.
Words that trigger doubling in pronunciation[edit]
The conjunctions e and né but not o (e.g. pane e ccaso; né (p)pane né (c)caso; but pane o caso)
The prepositions a, pe, cu (e.g. a (m)me; pe (t)te; cu (v)vuje)
The negation nu, short for nun (e.g. nu ddicere niente)
The indefinites ogne, cocche (e.g. ogne (c)casa; cocche (c)cosa)
Interrogative che and relative che but not ca (e.g. che (p)piense? che (f)femmena! che (c)capa!)
accussí (e.g. accussí (b)bello)
From the verb "essere," so’; sî; è but not songo (e.g. je so’ (p)pazzo; tu sî (f)fesso; chella è (M)Maria; chilli so’ (c)cafune but chilli songo cafune)
chiú (e.g. chiú (p)poco)
The number tre (e.g. tre (s)segge)
The neuter definite article ’o (e.g. ’o (p)pane, but nu poco ’e pane)
The neuter pronoun ’o (e.g. ’o (t)tiene ’o (p)pane?)
Demonstrative adjectives chistu and chillu which refer to neuter nouns in indefinite quantities (e.g. chistu (f)fierro; chillu (p)pane) but not in definite quantities (e.g. Chistu fierro; chillu pane)
The feminine plural definite article ’e (e.g. ’e (s)segge; ’e (g)guaglione)
The plural feminine pronoun ’e, e.g., ’e (g)guaglione ’e (c)chiamme tu? "
The plural masculine pronoun ’e preceding a verb, but not when ’e is an article; in ’e guagliune ’e (c)chiamme tu?, the first 'e is an article, so it does not trigger doubling; the second 'e does trigger doubling because it is a masculine plural pronoun.
The locative lloco (e.g. lloco (s)sotto)
From the verb stà: sto’ (e.g. sto’ (p)parlanno)
From the verb puté: può; pô (e.g. isso pô (s)sapé)
Special case Spiritu (S)Santo
See also[edit]
Languages portalItaly portal
Languages of Italy
Sicilian language
References[edit]
^ Neapolitan at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ "Tutela del dialetto, primo via libera al Ddl campano" Archived 27 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine ("Bill to protect dialect green-lighted") from Il Denaro, economic journal of South Italy, 15 October 2008 Re Franceschiello. L'ultimo sovrano delle Due Sicilie
^ Ledgeway, Adam. 2009. Grammatica diacronica del napoletano. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer Verlag, pp. 3, 13-15
^ Radtke, Edgar. 1997. I dialetti della Campania. Roma: Il Calamo. pp. 39ff
^ Colantoni, Laura, and Jorge Gurlekian."Convergence and intonation: historical evidence from Buenos Aires Spanish", Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, Volume 7, Issue 02, August 2004, pp. 107–119, Cambridge Journals Online
^ Canepari, Luciano (2005), Italia (PDF), Manuale di fonetica, Lincom Europa, pp. 282–283, ISBN 3-89586-456-0, archived from the original (PDF) on 6 June 2011 (in Italian)
Additional sources[edit]
Iandolo, Carlo (2001). A lengua 'e Pulecenella: Grammatica napoletana (in Italian). Sorrento: Franco Di Mauro. ISBN 978-8885263710.
De Blasi, Nicola; Imperatore, Luigi (2001). Il napoletano parlato e scritto: Con note di grammatica storica [Written and Spoken Neapolitan: With Notes on Historic Grammar] (in Italian) (2nd ed.). Napoli: Dante & Descartes. ISBN 978-8888142050.
Del Vecchio, Emilano (3 July 2014). "Neapolitan: A Great Cultural Heritage". TermCoord.
Verde, Massimiliano (17 June 2017). "Consegnato il primo Certificato Europeo di Lingua Napoletana" [Granted the first European Certificate of the Neapolitan language]. NapoliToday (in Italian). First Course of Neapolitan Language according to the QCER CEFR with the Patronage of City of Naples realized by Dr.Massimiliano Verde "Corso di Lingua e Cultura Napoletana" with a document of study in Neapolitan Language by Dr.Verde
First public document in Neapolitan Language of the XXI century according to a text of Dr.Verde; the touristic Map of the III Municipality of Naples in Neapolitan Language:
Palmieri, Paola (22 June 2017). "Napoli per turisti: arriva la prima mappa con info in napoletano e italiano!" [Naples for tourists: Released the first map with text in Neapolitan and Italian!]. Grandenapoli (in Italian).
"A Napoli nasce la prima mappa turistica con info in italiano e napoletano". Vesuvio Live (in Italian). 21 June 2017.
External links[edit]
Neapolitan language  at Wikipedia's sister projects
Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsTexts from WikisourceTextbooks from WikibooksNeapolitan edition of WikipediaData from Wikidata
Neapolitan recognized by UNESCO (in Italian)
Websters Online Dictionary Neapolitan–English
Interactive Map of languages in Italy
Neapolitan on-line radio station
Neapolitan glossary on Wiktionary
Italian-Neapolitan searchable online dictionary
Neapolitan basic lexicon at the Global Lexicostatistical Database
Grammar primer and extensive vocabulary for the Neapolitan dialect of Torre del Greco
Neapolitan language and culture (in Italian)
Prosodic detail in Neapolitan Italian by Francesco Cangemi. Berlin: Language Science Press. pp. 187 Free download.
Consegnato il primo Certificato Europeo di Lingua Napoletana (in Italian)
vte NaplesGeography
Quarters
Metropolitan City
Municipalities
Metropolitan area
Naples Metro
Underground geothermal zone
Port
History (timeline)
Napoleonic Kingdom of Naples
Army
Neapolitan Republic (1647)
Kingdom of Naples
Consorts
Monarchs
Viceroys
Dukes
Duchy of Naples
Four Days of Naples
Jews in Naples
Bishops
Bombings in WWII
Politics andgovernment
Elections in Naples
2016
2021
Mayors
Culture
Cinema
Music
Conservatories
Canzone Napoletana
Flag
Coat of arms
Historic Centre
Museums
Cuisine
Architecture
Tallest buildings, Villas, Fountains, Stairways
Economy
Theaters
Language
State Archives of Naples
Radio stations
Patron saints
 Outline
 Categoryvte Languages of ItalyHistorical linguistic minorities: Albanian, Catalan, Croatian, French, Franco-Provençal, Friulian, Germanic, Greek, Ladin, Occitan, Romani, Sardinian, Slovene, WenzhouneseItalo-DalmatianItalian
Regional Italian
Tuscan
Florentine
Central
Central-Northern Latian
Marchigiano
Romanesco
Sabino
Intermediate Southern(Neapolitan)
Beneventano
Barese
Castelmezzanese
Cilentan
Cosentino
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Extreme Southern
Central-Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Other Italo-Dalmatianlanguages
Corsican
Gallurese
Sassarese
SardinianSardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Occitano-RomanceCatalan
Algherese
Occitan
Vivaro-Alpine
Mentonasc
Niçard
Gallo-RomanceFrench
Aostan
Franco-Provençal
Valdôtain
Faetar
Cellese
Gallo-ItalicLigurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Lombard
Western Lombard
Brianzöö dialects
Canzés
Bustocco and Legnanese
Comasco-Lecchese dialects
Comasco
Laghée
Vallassinese
Lecchese
Milanese
Ticinese
Ossolano
Varesino
Southwestern Lombard
Pavese
Novarese
Cremunés
Spasell
Eastern Lombard
Bergamasque
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Other Gallo-Italiclanguages
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Judeo-Italian
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Piedmontese
Venetian[a]Venetian
Fiuman
Triestine
Rhaeto-RomanceRhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Ladin
Cadorino
Fornes
Nones
Italy portalAlbanianArbëresh language
Arbëresh
Vaccarizzo Albanian
South SlavicSlovene
Brda
Gail Valley
Inner Carniolan
Istrian
Karst
Natisone Valley
Resian
Torre Valley
Serbo-Croatian
Slavomolisano
Triestine Serbian
GreekItaliot Greek
Calabrian Greek
Griko
GermanBavarian
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Other German dialects
Austrian German
Walser
Yiddish
Others
Hebrew
Italian Hebrew
Italian Sign Language
Romani
Sinte Romani
Wenzhounese
^ Venetian is either grouped with the rest of the Italo-Dalmatian or the Gallo-Italic languages, depending on the linguist.
vteRomance languages (classification)Major branches
Eastern
Italo-Western
Italo-Dalmatian
Western
Southern
Eastern
Aromanian
Istro-Romanian
Megleno-Romanian
Romanian
dialects
Banat
Bukovinian
Crișana
Maramureș
Moldavian
Transylvanian
Wallachian
Common Romanian
Italo-DalmatianCentral
Central dialects
Central Marchigiano
Ancona
Fabriano
Macerata
Central−Northern Latian
Romanesco
Sabino
Corsican
Gallurese
Italian
Italo-Australian
Regional Italian
Swiss Italian
Sassarese
Tuscan
Florentine
Southern
Extreme Southern Italian
Central−Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Neapolitan–Calabrese
Neapolitan
Barese
Benevento
Castelmezzano
Cilentan
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Northern Calabrian
Southern Italian Koiné
Others
Dalmatian
Istriot
Judaeo-Italian
WesternGallo-Italic
Emilian-Romagnol
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Gallo-Picene
Ligurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Judeo-Italian
Lombard
Eastern
Bergamasque
Western
Brianzöö
Canzés
Bustocco–Legnanese
Comasco–Lecchese
Comasco
Laghée
Lecchese
Vallassinese
Milanese
Ossolano
Southwestern
Cremunés
Novarese
Pavese
Ticinese
Varesino
Piedmontese
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Gallo-RomanceLanguesd'oïl
Angevin
Berrichon
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
Gallo
French
Jersey
Meridional
North American dialects
Canadian
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay French
Brayon
Newfoundland
Quebec
Joual
Magoua
Franco-Ontarian
Métis
Muskrat
New England
Frenchville
Louisiania
Houma
Missouri French
Creoles
Lorrain
Welche
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Sercquiais
Orléanais
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Faetar
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Moselle Romance
Ibero-Romance(WestIberian)Asturleonese
Asturian
Western Asturian
Cantabrian
Leonese
Mirandese
Galician-Portuguese
Fala
Galician
Galician-Asturian/Eonavian
Minderico
Portugis
Portuguese
dialects
African
Asian
Brazilian
Mineiro
European
Estremenho
Uruguayan
Creoles
Judaeo-Portuguese
Castilian
Amazonic Spanish
Extremaduran
Judaeo-Spanish
Spanish
dialects
Equatoguinean
Latin American
Peruvian
Peruvian Ribereño
Peninsular
Andalusian
Llanito
Castilian
Castrapo
Castúo
Murcian
Philippine
Saharan
Creoles
Old Spanish
Others
Andalusi Romance
Barranquenho (mixed Portuguese–Spanish)
Caló (mixed Romani–Ibero- and Occitano-Romance)
Navarro-Aragonese
Aragonese
Judaeo-Aragonese
Occitano-Romance
Catalan
dialects
Eastern
Algherese
Balearic
Menorcan
Central
Northern
Judaeo-Catalan
Patuet
Western
Catalan Ribagorçan
Valencian
Occitan
Auvergnat
Gascon
Aranese
Béarnese
Landese
Judeo-Gascon
Judeo-Provençal
Languedocien
Limousin
Provençal
Niçard
Vivaro-Alpine
Gardiol
Mentonasc
Old Occitan
Old Catalan
Rhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Fornes
Ladin
Cadorino
Nones
Romansh
Jauer
Putèr
Surmiran
Sursilvan
Vallader
Others
Mediterranean Lingua Franca (Western Romance-based pidgin)
Venetian (unknown further classification)
Chipilo
Fiuman
Talian
Triestine
Others
African Romance
British Latin
Pannonian Romance
Sardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Reconstructed
Proto-Romance
Italics indicate extinct languages
Bold indicates languages with more than 5 million speakers
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control: National 
Germany
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Neapolitan_language&oldid=1172941181"
Categories: Neapolitan languageLanguages of CampaniaHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from January 2018Articles needing additional references from August 2015All articles needing additional referencesArticles needing expert attention from September 2019All articles needing expert attentionItaly articles needing expert attentionLanguages articles needing expert attentionArticles to be split from December 2020All articles to be splitArticles with multiple maintenance issuesArticles containing Neapolitan-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2022Languages with ISO 639-2 codeArticles containing Italian-language textCS1 Italian-language sources (it)Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidataArticles with Italian-language sources (it)Articles with GND identifiers
 This page was last edited on 30 August 2023, at 08:50 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width