Smartraveller.gov.au - 
Trinidad and Tobago
67 captures
05 Jun 2016 - 28 Mar 2023
Jun
AUG
Feb
20
2018
2019
2021
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20190820120011/https://smartraveller.gov.au/Countries/americas/caribbean/Pages/trinidad_and_tobago.aspx
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser settings to use the smartraveller.gov.au web site
JavaScript allows many of the interactive and dynamic features of this website to operate correctly and efficiently.
            Most browsers come with JavaScript already enabled, however if for some reason JavaScript is disabled in your browser you 
            can enable it by changing your browser settings. 
            For instructions on how to do this, visit your browser's website and 
            search for the term "enable JavaScript".
        
Skip to content
  
 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre
Register your trip and subscribe to travel advice
 Menu
Search
Trinidad and Tobago
   
            
Trinidad and Tobago
    Listen to this page 
Page Content
Expand all sections
Collapse all sections
Summary
Exercise a high degree of caution in Trinidad and Tobago because of the very high levels of serious crime, including violent crime. Pay close attention to your personal security. Monitor the media for information about possible new safety or security risks. Terrorist attacks are possible in Trinidad and Tobago. Religious holidays and large crowds could be targeted. See 
      
Safety and security. Some beaches have been targeted by criminals. See 
      Safety and security. Avoid downtown Port of Spain at night – tourists have been robbed or assaulted at gunpoint. See 
      
Safety and security. You could face robbery, carjacking and accidents due to erratic driving when travelling to or from Piarco Airport, especially at night. Book flights for travel in daylight hours. See 
      
Safety and security. The hurricane season is June to November when landslides, mudslides, flooding and disruptions to essential services may occur. See 
      Natural disasters.Entry and exit Every country or territory decides who can enter or exit through its borders. The Australian Government cannot intervene on your behalf if you do not meet your destination's entry or exit requirements.VisasIf your visit is for tourism, you won't need a visa but you'll need to pay a visa waiver fee. Pay the fee in cash in Trinidad and Tobago dollars or US dollars to Immigration Services upon arrival. In other circumstances, you'll need a visa. Visa and other entry and exit conditions (such as currency, customs and quarantine regulations) can change at short notice. Contact a 
   High Commission, Embassy or Consulate of Trinidad and Tobago for up-to-date information. Trinidad and Tobago doesn't have a High Commission, Embassy or Consulate in Australia. Its nearest mission is the 
   Embassy of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago in Beijing, China. If you're travelling through the United States you must meet US entry or transit requirements. Check your visa requirements with a 
   US Embassy or Consulate well in advance of your travel. More information: 
   United States of AmericaOther formalitiesYou may need a valid Yellow Fever Vaccination Certificate for entry, particularly if you're arriving from a country where yellow fever is common. Yellow fever is widespread in Trinidad and is a serious and potentially fatal disease which is preventable by vaccination. Some airlines may not let you board your flight unless you present a valid Yellow Fever Vaccination Certificate. Read 
   yellow fever for advice on requirements for re-entry to Australia following exposure to yellow fever.   More information: 
   Yellow fever risk and certification requirements (by country, WHO)PassportCheck the expiry date of your Australian passport before you travel. Some countries won’t let you enter unless your passport is valid for six months from when you plan to leave that country. Your passport is a valuable document and attractive to criminals who may try to use your identity to commit crimes. Always keep it in a safe place.Be aware of attempts to obtain access to your passport by deception. If you're forced to hand over your passport, contact the Embassy for advice.If your passport is lost or stolen, you must notify the Australian Government as soon as possible.In Australia, contact 
      the Australian Passport Information Service.Overseas, contact your nearest 
      Australian Embassy, High Commission or Consulate.MoneyThe local currency is the Trinidad and Tobago dollar (TTD). Exchange your foreign currency for TTD at commercial banks and official exchange bureau.International credit cards are accepted in larger hotels and tourist facilities. ATMs are widely available across the country. Take care when using ATMs as crime occurs. Contact your bank to make sure that your card will work in Trinidad and Tobago.Safety and security Crime Violent crimes are common and include murders, kidnapping, shootings, armed robbery, rape and home invasions. Serious crimes against expatriates and tourists happen. Local authorities have a very poor track record in catching and prosecuting offenders. Visitors can be affected by gang and drug-related crime anywhere in Trinidad and Tobago. Areas particularly prone to violent crime include:downtown Port of Spain, especially at nightthe docks Sea LotsBelmont Laventille Morvant BeethamBarataria to the east, Cocorite to the west and everything in between the interior of the Queens Park SavannahLady Young Road scenic rest stops, especially after darkareas around ATMs.Attacks, including with firearms, have also occurred at popular tourist sites, hairdressing salons, licensed premises and in car parks of supermarkets, shopping malls and banks. Crimes including rapes, assaults and robberies have taken place inside shared taxis. Shared, route and maxi-taxis pick up additional passengers along the route, putting you at risk. Taxis affiliated with major hotels and private taxis are safer transport options.Crimes targeting foreigners are common. Tourists have been robbed when travelling from Piarco Airport. Gangs follow cars travelling from the airport and violently attack their victims when they reach their destinations. Robberies, assaults and carjackings have also occurred when travellers have stopped on the Beetham/Churchill Roosevelt Highway (which is also the airport route) late at night. There have been reports of attempts to illegally block traffic along Lady Young Road, an alternate airport route close to the city of Port of Spain. Crimes targeting foreigners have also been reported at:popular tourist sites such as Maracas and Las Cuevas beaches, Fort George and the La Brea Pitch Lake in south Trinidad  beaches such as Grafton beach, Englishman's Bay, King Peter's Bay and those in the Bacolet area in Tobagopopular waterfalls in Tobago.Petty crime including bag snatching, pick-pocketing and theft from cars is common, especially near tourist attractions. Visible items left in unattended parked cars are prime targets for smash-and-grab style theft.  Crimes of opportunity, including theft and robberies, rise significantly in the lead-up to Christmas until the end of Carnival, which is usually held in February or March. Financial scams are common in Trinidad and Tobago. More information: Scams 
Stay alert to your surroundings at all times.Arrange your transport from the airport to your accommodation in advance. Use a hotel vehicle, a taxi affiliated with a major hotel vehicle or a private taxi. Don't use shared taxis or public transport. Make sure there is a high level of security at your accommodation, including in private villas. Carry only what you need. Leave other valuables, including your passport, in a secure location. Keep vehicle windows closed, doors locked and valuables out of sight at all times, including when moving.Don't use ATMs on the street. Use ATMs in daylight hours in hotels, shopping centres or other controlled areas and be mindful of who is around you.If you're female, avoid travelling alone, especially at night. If your vehicle breaks down or you are in an accident on the Beetham/Churchill Roosevelt Highway, go to a safe location before seeking assistance.If you become a victim of violent crime, especially rape, seek immediate medical assistance due to the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS.Terrorism Terrorism is a threat and an attack could occur at any time. Religious holidays and large crowds could be targeted.There have been no recent terror attacks in Trinidad and Tobago but in February 2018, Trinidad and Tobago authorities temporarily detained several people suspected of planning attacks during Carnival. More than 100 Trinidad and Tobago nationals have travelled to Syria and Iraq to fight alongside Daesh (ISIL). The Government has a national counter-terrorism strategy and action plan to address violent extremism but those who travel to fight with Daesh are likely to pose a security threat on return.Be alert to possible threats, especially in public places. Exercise particular caution around locations known to be possible terrorist targets.Report suspicious activity or items to police. Monitor the media for any new or emerging threats.Take official warnings seriously and follow the instructions of local authorities.If there is an attack, leave the affected area immediately if it is safe to do so.  Terrorism is a threat throughout the world. More information: Terrorist threat worldwideCivil unrest and political tension You could encounter demonstrations or protests. Large gatherings can turn violent. Avoid all large gatherings, protests and demonstrations.Monitor the media for reports of planned or possible unrest. Avoid affected areas.Follow instructions from local authorities. Local travel Road travel You're three times more likely to be killed in a motor vehicle accident in Trinidad and Tobago than in Australia. Hazards include poorly maintained roads, local driving practices and traffic congestion. High-speed accidents, particularly along the Churchill-Roosevelt Highway, often result in fatalities. Conditions on rural and mountain roads are particularly hazardous.The road from Port of Spain to the popular Maracas beach area is narrow, windy, poorly maintained, subject to landslides and busy. Road users often drive in a dangerous manner. There have been fatal accidents caused by erratic driving to and from Piarco International Airport. Security risks along several routes increase, especially at night. See        
   
Safety and security. It's against the law to use mobile phones while driving, except in 'hands-free' or Bluetooth mode.Police conduct random breath tests and can stop traffic if they suspect a person is driving under the influence of alcohol.Check you have adequate insurance cover before driving.Carry vehicle insurance papers with you as you may be asked for them.Familiarise yourself with local traffic laws and practices before driving. Avoid driving at night, unless on major highways.Avoid travel outside major populated areas late at night and early in the morning. Avoid travel to and from the Piarco International Airport late at night and early in the morning.More information: 
   Road travelDriver's licenceYou can drive in Trinidad and Tobago with a valid Australian driver's licence and an International Driving Permit (IDP). You must obtain your IDP before departing Australia. MotorcyclesCheck with your travel insurer whether your policy covers you when using a motorcycle, quad bike or similar vehicle. Your policy may not cover you for accidents that occur while using these vehicles. Always wear a helmet. Taxis Private taxis are available at airports and hotels. They are unmetered and unmarked but can be identified by vehicle registration plates beginning with 'H'. Some vehicles with ‘P’ (Private) registration plates illegally offer informal taxi services. The airport is served by the Airport Taxi Drivers' Cooperative.Crimes including rape, assault, robbery and theft have taken place in private cars and maxi taxis. 
Public transportAvoid public transport due to safety concerns. See Safety and security.Sea travelA number of cruise vessels stop in Trinidad and Tobago. See 
   Going on a cruise?An inter-island ferry operates between Trinidad and Tobago. Cancellations may occur with little or no notice. Check the status of your travel with the Port Authority.A water taxi operates between Port of Spain and San Fernando. Air travelThe Australian Government does not provide information on the safety of individual commercial airlines or flight paths. See the 
   Aviation Safety Network website for information on aviation safety. More information: 
   Air travelLaws You're subject to the local laws and penalties, including those that appear harsh by Australian standards. Research laws before travelling, especially for an extended stay. If you're arrested or jailed, the Australian Government will do what it can to help you under our 
   Consular Services Charter. But we can't get you out of trouble or out of jail. Drug lawsThere are severe penalties for drug offences and if you possess even a small quantity of illegal drugs, including marijuana, you may be imprisoned. When departing, visitors are thoroughly screened for drugs. More information: DrugsOther lawsPenalties for some serious crimes, including murder and treason, include the death penalty. Homosexuality is illegal but penalties are only rarely enforced. More information: 
   LGBTI travellersYou can be arrested for public nudity in non-designated areas and indecent language, such as cursing. It's illegal for civilians to wear army or police camouflage clothing.It’s illegal to carry ammunition when arriving, departing or transiting through Trinidad and Tobago. If you have a bullet, bullet casing, or spent ammunition in items such as jewellery or keyrings on you or in your luggage at the airport you can be detained, charged or fined.Australian lawsSome Australian criminal offences apply overseas. You can be prosecuted for them in Australia. These offences include, but aren't limited to:bribery of foreign public officialschild sex offences and child pornographyfemale genital mutilationforced marriagemoney launderingterrorism.More information: 
   Staying within the law Health Travel insuranceTake out comprehensive 
   travel insurance before you depart to cover any overseas medical costs, including medical evacuation. Regardless of how healthy and fit you are, if you can't afford travel insurance, you can't afford to travel. The Australian Government won't pay for your medical expenses overseas or medical evacuation costs. Confirm:what circumstances and activities are and are not covered under your policythat you're covered for the whole time you will be away.Physical and mental healthConsider your physical and mental health before travelling, especially if you have an existing medical condition. At least eight weeks before you depart, see your doctor or travel clinic for a basic health check-up, and to discuss your travel plans and implications for your health. Get vaccinated before you travel.More information: 
Taking care of your health 
World Health Organization advice for travellersMedicationNot all medication available over the counter or by prescription in Australia is available in other countries. Some may be illegal or a controlled substance, even if prescribed by an Australian doctor. Before you leave Australia, check if your medication is legal in each country you're travelling to and find out if any quantity restrictions or certification requirements apply. Consult your doctor about alternatives well before you travel.Take legal prescription medicine with you so you remain in good health. Carry copies of your prescription and a dated letter from your doctor stating what the medicine is, its generic name, how much you'll take and that it's for personal use only. More information: 
   Prescription medicinesHealth risksHIV/AIDSThe rate of HIV/AIDS infection is high in Trinidad and Tobago. Take precautions if engaging in activities that expose you to risk of infection. Insect-borne diseases Yellow fever, a potentially fatal disease that is preventable by vaccination, is common in Trinidad.  There is widespread transmission of Zika virus in Trinidad and Tobago. The Australian 
   Department of Health advises pregnant women to discuss any travel plans with their doctor and defer non-essential travel to affected areas.Other mosquito-borne illnesses, including dengue fever and chikungunya virus, commonly occur, especially during the rainy season (June to December). Protect yourself against insect-borne diseases:ensure your accommodation is insect proof, including with treated mosquito netsavoid insect bites, including by using insect repellent and wearing long, loose fitting, light coloured clothingget vaccinated against yellow fever before travelling to the island of Trinidad seek medical advice if you have a fever, muscle pain, rash or severe headache.More information:
Zika (Department of Health)
Yellow fever (Department of Health)
Dengue fever (WHO)
Chikungunya (WHO)Other infectious diseasesWater-borne, food-borne, parasitic and other infectious diseases (including hepatitis A) are prevalent. More serious outbreaks occur from time to time. Practice good hygiene including frequent handwashing.Boil drinking water or drink bottled water.Avoid ice cubes.Avoid raw and undercooked food.Seek medical advice if you have a fever or are suffering from diarrhoea. Medical facilitiesThe standard of medical facilities varies. Costs at public hospitals range from free for general problems to very expensive for complicated procedures. At private hospitals, treatment can be very expensive and you must pay (in local currency) before treatment. Tobago has one decompression chamber in Roxborough in the north of the island. If you become seriously ill or injured, you'll need to be evacuated to Miami or another destination with appropriate facilities. Medical evacuation can be very expensive. Natural disastersTrinidad and Tobago can experience hurricanes, severe storms and earthquakes.If a natural disaster occurs:secure your passport in a safe, waterproof location or carry it on youclosely monitor local media, the 
      National Hurricane and Tropical Prediction Center and other sources such as the 
      Global Disaster Alert and Coordination System and 
      Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agencyfollow the advice of local emergency officialscontact friends and family with regular updates about your welfare seek local advice before entering affected areas. If you're travelling during hurricane season or following a natural disaster, monitor weather reports and contact your tour operator to check whether tourist services at your planned destination have been affected. Contact your airline for the latest flight information.  HurricanesThe hurricane season is June to November when landslides, mudslides, flooding and disruptions to essential services may occur. Trinidad and Tobago is rarely affected by hurricanes but more commonly experiences severe storm conditions and flooding. The direction and strength of hurricanes can change with little warning. If there is a hurricane or severe storm, you may not be able to leave the area. Flights could be delayed, suspended or may fill quickly. Access to sea ports could also be affected. Roads may be blocked. Power, communication systems and other essential services could be affected. In some areas, adequate shelter from a hurricane may not be available.If a hurricane is approaching, follow the advice for all natural disasters above and:make sure you know your hotel or cruise ship evacuation plansidentify your local shelterclosely monitor alerts and advice from the 
      U.S. National Hurricane Center and the 
      Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency. More information:
Caribbean hurricane season
Severe weatherEarthquakesTrinidad and Tobago is located in an active seismic zone and often experiences earthquakes. In August 2018, Trinidad and Tobago experienced an earthquake in excess of magnitude 6.7 causing damage to some buildings and communication networks. Familiarise yourself with earthquake safety measures for each place you stay and visit. More information:
Earthquakes
Trinidad and Tobago's Office of Disaster Preparedness and Management 
University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre
National Disaster Management Agency (NaDMA)Where to get help Depending on what you need, your best option may be to contact your family, friends, travel agent, travel insurance provider, employer or airline. Your travel insurer should have a 24-hour emergency number. Emergency phone numbersPolice: 999Fire services: 990 Ambulance: 990 or 811. Coast Guard: 634 4440Kidnapping Hotline: 623 6793Always get a police report when reporting a crime.Tourism products and servicesFor complaints about tourism services or products, contact the service provider directly.Australian GovernmentRead the 
   Consular Services Charter for what the Australian Government can and can't do to assist Australians overseas.  For consular assistance, contact the Australian High Commission in Port of Spain.Australian High Commission, Port of Spain 18 Herbert Street, St Clair Port of Spain TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Phone: (1 868) 822 5450 Fax: (1 868) 822 5490 Website: 
   trinidadandtobago.highcommission.gov.au Email: ahc.portofspain@dfat.gov.au Facebook: 
   Australia in the CaribbeanCheck the 
   High Commission website for information about opening hours and temporary closures that may affect service provision. If you can't contact the High Commission in a consular emergency, contact the 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on +61 2 6261 3305, or 1300 555 135 within Australia.Additional information
More information on Trinidad and TobagoTravel Smart
Female travellers
Young travellers 
Partying safely
Cruises
Backpackers
Scamwatch (ACCC)
Stay Smart Online
Need help?
I need help 
Someone I know needs help 
Expand Footer Sections
Collapse Footer Sections
Contact us
The Australian Government provides 24-hour consular assistance.
+61 2 6261 3305 from overseas
1300 555 135 from within Australia
+61 421 269 080 for SMS
For passport information, visit the Australian Passport Office.
 Facebook  Twitter  YouTube
About us
Smartraveller is provided by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
For how we can help you overseas, see the Consular Services Charter.
Subscribe to travel advice and bulletins
Be the first to know official government advice when travelling.
Stay notified
Notarial services
Documents are in Australia
Documents are overseas
Verify an apostille
Register your travel plans
Help us contact you or your family in the event of an emergency.
Register your trip with Smartraveller
Need help with travel registration?
Expand Footer Sections
Collapse Footer Sections
Australian embassies, high commissions and consulates
Resources for travel industry and media
العربية / Arabic
中文 / Chinese - Simplified
中文 / Chinese - Traditional
Bahasa Indonesia / Indonesian
ภาษาไทย / Thai
Tiếng Việt / Vietnamese
Copyright
Disclaimer
Privacy
Cookies and analytics
Accessibility
Send feedback