Wikipedia plans to expand mobile access around the globe with new funding | Nieman Journalism Lab
Fellowships
Reports
Lab
Storyboard
Nieman Foundation at Harvard
HOME
About
Fuego
Subscribe
Archives
          
Foundation
Reports
Storyboard
LATEST STORYMeet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economy 
Business Models
Mobile & Apps
Audience & Social
Aggregation & Discovery
Reporting & Production
ABOUT                
 
    SUBSCRIBE
Business Models
Mobile & Apps
Audience & Social
Aggregation & Discovery
Reporting & Production
Translations
Fuego
Jan.  17, 2013, 10:01 a.m.
Mobile & Apps
Knight News Challenge 2013
Wikipedia plans to expand mobile access around the globe with new funding
Money from the Knight News Challenge will be used to grow Wikipedia Zero, a project that makes the site more accessible on feature phones. 
By Justin Ellis
@JustinNXT
Jan.  17, 2013, 10:01 a.m. 
Jan.  17, 2013, 10:01 a.m.
On the list of this round’s winners of the Knight News Challenge, there is no bigger name than Wikipedia. With Knight’s $600,000 grant, the Wikimedia Foundation plans to increase the free encyclopedia’s reach on mobile, developing new software that will allow users to better access the site on feature phones through Wikipedia Zero.
Wikipedia Zero was designed specifically to give access to the site to people in developing countries with low quality networks or high data costs. Using funding from the News Challenge, Wikipedia will aim to improve the user experience on feature phones, increase the number of languages available on the mobile site, and provide new ways to access the site via SMS. 
In most Western countries, Wikipedia is usually a few clicks or taps away, whether on a computer or a smartphone. That’s not the case elsewhere. “There’s still a lot of people with old Nokia phones,” said Kul Wadhwa, head of mobile and business development for the Wikimedia Foundation. “A large part of the world still uses that. We want to make sure we support everybody.”
Wikipedia Zero is like normal Wikipedia, just stripped down to its essential parts. It comes in two flavors: a mobile-friendly site and a text-only site. But beyond making these barebones versions of Wikipedia, Wikimedia partners with telecommunications companies that agree to provide access to their customers free of charge. So far Wikipedia Zero is available through mobile providers in countries like Kenya, Uganda, Tunisia, Thailand, and Malaysia. (It comes after Facebook found significant success in poorer countries with the similar Facebook Zero, which launched in 2010.) Wadhwa told me mobile access to Wikipedia grew 40 percent year-over year in 2012, while non-English mobile usage jumped 66 percent. 
Making Wikipedia Zero work comes down to two big issues — cost and access, Wadhwa said. Cutting deals with mobile providers is one way of addressing those problems. Creating more efficient software for feature phones is another, he said. 
In order for the program to expand, they’ll need to continue usability testing on different types of feature phones, as well as adding new functionality, such as accessing the site through SMS. They also need to pursue more research on how people use Wikipedia in different counties and what their needs are, he said. One problem is that no two communities or mobile users are alike. Because phone usage and network strength varies so much, Wadhwa said it’s been difficult to develop a standard software for feature phones. 
The next step after making Wikipedia readable across multiple phones and languages, is allowing users to edit the site. Given the limitations on feature phones, that could present problems. “Editing an encyclopedia on a phone is not entirely practical, but there are ways to contribute,” he said.
Like many News Challenge winners, Wikipedia will be releasing their work as open source once it’s complete. Given that Wikipedia is primarily built on open source software, Wadhwa said it’s fitting they’ll be able to give back to the developer community with their project. With a sizable global market for feature phones, Wadhwa expects their software could find plenty of uses. “Hopefully it’s not just Wikipedia people access on their phone. If they can use the same codebase, that can work for others.” 
POSTED     Jan.  17, 2013, 10:01 a.m.
SEE MORE ON Mobile & Apps
PART OF A SERIES     Knight News Challenge 2013
Africacell phonesfeature phonesKnight FoundationKnight News ChallengeKul WadhwamobileWikimedia FoundationWikipedia
Show tagsHide tags
  TWITTER
  FACEBOOK
  EMAIL
  SHARE ON FACEBOOK
  TWEET
Africacell phonesfeature phonesKnight FoundationKnight News ChallengeKul WadhwamobileWikimedia FoundationWikipedia
Show comments  Hide comments
Show tagsHide tags
 
What’s the best way to follow how the news is changing?
Our daily email, with all the freshest future-of-journalism news.
Prefer a once-a-week email? »
Cite this articleHide citations
CLOSE
MLA
Ellis, Justin. "Wikipedia plans to expand mobile access around the globe with new funding." Nieman Journalism Lab. Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard, 17 Jan. 2013. Web. 3 Sep. 2023. 
APA
Ellis, J. (2013, Jan. 17). Wikipedia plans to expand mobile access around the globe with new funding. Nieman Journalism Lab. Retrieved September 3, 2023, from https://www.niemanlab.org/2013/01/wikipedia-plans-to-expand-mobile-access-around-the-globe-with-new-funding/
Chicago
Ellis, Justin. "Wikipedia plans to expand mobile access around the globe with new funding." Nieman Journalism Lab. Last modified January 17, 2013.  Accessed September 3, 2023. https://www.niemanlab.org/2013/01/wikipedia-plans-to-expand-mobile-access-around-the-globe-with-new-funding/.
Wikipedia
{{cite web
    | url = https://www.niemanlab.org/2013/01/wikipedia-plans-to-expand-mobile-access-around-the-globe-with-new-funding/
    | title = Wikipedia plans to expand mobile access around the globe with new funding
    | last = Ellis
    | first =  Justin
    | work = [[Nieman Journalism Lab]]
    | date = 17 January 2013
    | accessdate = 3 September 2023
    | ref = {{harvid|Ellis|2013}}
}}
The latest from Nieman Lab
Meet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economyHanaa' TameezWith five old phones and some Pew data, the BBC’s Marianna Spring monitors social media from the insideSophie CulpepperThe Texas Tribune’s first-ever layoffs worry the news industrySarah ScireA local WhatsApp newsletter is helping people make the most of a Spanish cityHanaa' TameezMore funding is flowing to local journalism and for-profit newsrooms, study findsSarah Scire
Join the 60,000 who get the freshest future-of-journalism news in our daily email.
Meet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economy“For me, social media is the purest way of doing service journalism.”
With five old phones and some Pew data, the BBC’s Marianna Spring monitors social media from the inside“The reason I have to have undercover voters is because social media sites won’t — and to some extent, can’t — tell you exactly what they’re recommending every single voter.”
The Texas Tribune’s first-ever layoffs worry the news industryFrustration over a lack of transparency has been amplified by the newsroom’s status as “the gold standard of nonprofit journalism” and a role model other outlets have been encouraged to follow.
Hanaa' TameezMeet the journalist using Instagram broadcasts to make sense of Argentina’s economy“For me, social media is the purest way of doing service journalism.”Sophie CulpepperWith five old phones and some Pew data, the BBC’s Marianna Spring monitors social media from the inside“The reason I have to have undercover voters is because social media sites won’t — and to some extent, can’t — tell you exactly what they’re recommending every single voter.”Sarah ScireThe Texas Tribune’s first-ever layoffs worry the news industryFrustration over a lack of transparency has been amplified by the newsroom’s status as “the gold standard of nonprofit journalism” and a role model other outlets have been encouraged to follow.
Subscribe
Twitter
Facebook
RSS
About
Contact
Archives
Encyclo
Fuego
Help advance the Nieman Foundation’s mission “to promote and elevate the standards of journalism” by making a donation.
To promote and elevate the standards of journalism
 
Covering thought leadership in journalism
 
Pushing to the future of journalism
 
Exploring the art and craft of story
 
© 2023 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College  /  Some rights reserved
Harvard Trademark Privacy Digital Accessibility
Walter Lippmann House    One Francis Ave.    Cambridge, MA 02138    617 495 2237
The Nieman Journalism Lab is a collaborative attempt to figure out how quality journalism can survive and thrive in the Internet age.
It’s a project of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University.
Follow us
Subscribe to our email
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Download our iPhone app
Subscribe via RSS
Subscribe to our work →
The basics
About us
Contact
Archives
Projects
Encyclo
Fuego
Tweet archive
About us →
Director
Joshua Benton
Staff writers
Justin Ellis
Caroline O’Donovan
© President and Fellows of Harvard College, unless otherwise noted. Some rights reserved.
 