Walloon language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Disputed nature of Walloon
2Geographic distribution
Toggle Geographic distribution subsection
2.1Walloon
2.2Dialects
2.3Other regional languages
3Phonetics and phonology
4Orthography
5Characteristics
Toggle Characteristics subsection
5.1Language family
5.2Morphology
5.3Lexicon
5.4Syntax
6History
7Walloon society and culture
8Literature
9Phrases
10See also
11References
Toggle References subsection
11.1Footnotes
11.2Citations
12External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Walloon language
94 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuAzərbaycancaBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDavvisámegiellaDeutschΕλληνικάEmiliàn e rumagnòlEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתKernowekКомиLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLombardМакедонскиमराठीمصرىمازِرونیNederlandsNedersaksies日本語NapulitanoNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandOccitanپنجابیپښتوPicardPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRipoarischRomânăРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsSimple EnglishSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtWalonWest-Vlams吴语粵語ZeêuwsŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Gallo-Romance language of Wallonia, Belgium
WalloonwalonNative toBelgium, FranceRegionWallonia, Ardennes, minority in Door County, Wisconsin (United States)EthnicityWalloonsNative speakers600,000 people have some knowledge of it[1] (2007)[2]Possibly only 300,000 active speakers in rural Wallonia[citation needed]Language familyIndo-European
ItalicLatino-FaliscanRomanceItalo-WesternWestern RomanceGallo-RomanceGallo-Rhaetian[3] (possibly)OïlWalloonEarly formsOld Latin
Vulgar Latin
Proto-Romance
Old Gallo-Romance
Old French
Dialects
Wisconsin Walloon
Writing systemLatin (Walloon alphabet)Language codesISO 639-1waISO 639-2wlnISO 639-3wlnGlottologwall1255ELPWalloonLinguasphere51-AAA-hf×××Walloon is classified as Definitely Endangered by the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in DangerThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Walloon (/wɒˈluːn/; natively walon; French: wallon) is a Romance language that is spoken in much of Wallonia and, to a very small extent, in Brussels, Belgium; some villages near Givet, northern France; and a clutch of communities in northeastern Wisconsin, U.S.[4]
It belongs to the langues d'oïl language family, the most prominent member of which is French. The historical background of its formation was the territorial extension since 980 of the Principality of Liège to the south and west. Walloon is classified as "definitely endangered" by the UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger.[5]
Despite its rich literature, beginning anonymously in the 16th century and with well-known authors since 1756, the use of Walloon has decreased markedly since France's annexation of Wallonia in 1794.  This period definitively established French as the language of social promotion, far more than it was before.[6] After World War I, public schools provided French-speaking education to all children, inducing a denigration of Walloon, especially when accompanied by official orders in 1952 to punish its use in schools. Subsequently, since the middle of the 20th century, generational transmission of the language has decreased, resulting in Walloon almost becoming a dead language. Today it is scarcely spoken among younger people, with the vast majority of its native speakers being the elderly (aged 65 and over). In 2007, the number of people with knowledge of the language was estimated at 600,000.[1]
Numerous associations, especially theatre companies, are working to keep the language alive. Formally recognized as a langue régionale endogène (regional indigenous language) of Belgium since 1990,[7] Walloon has also benefited from a continued corpus planning process. The "Feller system" (1900) regularized transcription of the different accents. Since the 1990s, a common orthography was established (the Rifondou walon [wa; fr]), which allowed large-scale publications, such as the Walloon Wikipedia officially in 2003. In 2004, a Walloon translation of a Tintin comic was released under the name L'èmerôde d'al Castafiore; in 2007 an album consisting of Gaston Lagaffe comic strips was published in Walloon.
Walloon is more distinct as a language than Belgian French, which differs from the French spoken in France only in some minor points of vocabulary and pronunciation.
Disputed nature of Walloon[edit]
Hèsta, the Walloon name of the city of Herstal
Linguists had long classified Walloon as a dialect of French, which in turn is a langue d'oïl. Like French, it descended from Vulgar Latin.  Arguing that a French-speaking person could not understand Walloon easily, especially in its eastern forms, Jules Feller (1859–1940) insisted that Walloon had an original "superior unity", which made it a language.[8]
The phonological divisions of regional languages of southern Belgium were studied by the contemporary linguist E.B. Atwood. He defined the precise geographical repartition of the four chief dialects of Walloon. In addition, he defined them against the dialects of Picard, Lorrain and Champenois.[9]
Since then, most linguists[citation needed] (among them Louis Remacle), and gradually also Walloon politicians, regard Walloon as a regional language, the first in importance in Wallonia. It is the only one to have originated from that part of Belgium. The eleventh edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica identified Walloon as the "northernmost Romance language".
Geographic distribution[edit]
Walloon[edit]
Walloon is spoken in the Wallonia Region in Belgium. In addition, it is spoken in:
a small part of France: the Pointe de Givet in northern Ardennes, and several villages in the Nord département, making it one of the regional languages of France;
a small district of Door County, Wisconsin, US, owing to fairly large-scale immigration there in the 19th century;[10] as well as portions of Kewaunee County, Wisconsin, US, and Brown County, Wisconsin, US;[11] and
Brussels, by some Walloon residents.
Although Walloon was widely spoken until the mid-20th century, today only a small proportion of the inhabitants of the region are fluent in the language. Those born since the 1970s usually know little more than a few idiomatic expressions, often profanities. The Walloon language is still part of the Walloon heritage; it is one component of Walloon identity.
Dialects[edit]
Linguistic map of Wallonia
Main subdivisions of Walloon dialects
Four dialects of Walloon developed in four distinct zones of Wallonia:[12]
Central, spoken in Namur (Nameur), the Wallon capital, and the cities of Wavre (Åve) and Dinant;
Eastern – in many respects the most conservative and idiosyncratic of the dialects, spoken in Liège (Lidje), Verviers (Vervî), Malmedy (Måmdi), Huy (Hu), and Waremme (Wareme);
Western – the dialect closest to French proper and with a strong Picard influence, spoken in Charleroi (Tchårlerwè), Nivelles (Nivele), and Philippeville (Flipvile); and
Southern – close to the Lorrain and to a lesser extent Champenois languages, spoken in Bastogne, Marche-en-Famenne (Måtche-el-Fåmene), and Neufchâteau (Li Tchestea), all in the Ardennes region.
Despite local phonetic differences, there is a regional movement towards the adoption of a common spelling, called the Rifondou walon. This orthography is diasystemic, reflecting different pronunciations for different readers, a concept inspired by the spelling of Breton. The written forms attempt to reconcile current phonetic uses with ancient traditions (notably the reintroduction of xh and oi that were used for writing Walloon until the late 19th century) and the language's own phonological logic.
Other regional languages[edit]
Other regional languages spoken in Wallonia, outside the Walloon domain, are:
Picard, in Mons, Ath, and Tournai;
Lorrain (also called Gaumais locally), in Virton;
Champenois, in Bohan; and
Luxembourgish, in Arlon and Martelange.
The Picard, Lorrain and Champenois dialects spoken in Wallonia are sometimes also referred to as "Walloon", which may lead to confusion.
Phonetics and phonology[edit]
Consonant phonemes of Walloon
Labial
Dental/ Alveolar
Post- alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Uvular
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
ŋ
Plosive/Affricate
voiceless
p
t
t͡ʃ
k
voiced
b
d
d͡ʒ
ɡ
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
ʃ
ç
χ
h
voiced
v
z
ʒ
Trill
r
ʀ
Approximant
plain
l
j
rounded
ɥ
w
Vowel phonemes
Front
Central
Back
unrounded
rounded
oral
long
nasal
oral
long
nasal
oral
long
nasal
Close
i
iː
ĩ
y
yː
u
uː
Near-close
ɪ
ʏ
ʊ
ʊː
Close-mid
e
eː
ẽ
ø
øː
ə
oː
Open-mid
ɛ
ɛː
ɛ̃
œ
œː
œ̃
ɔ
ɔː
ɔ̃
Open
a
ɑː
ɑ̃
Latin /k/ before /a/ and /ɡ/ before /e/, /i/, or /a/ gave Walloon affricate phonemes spelled tch /t͡ʃ/ and dj /d͡ʒ/: vatche (vs. French vache "cow"), djambe (Fr. jambe "leg").
Latin [s] persisted in clusters: spene (Fr. épine "thorn, spine"), fistu "wisp of straw", mwaîsse (Fr. maître "master"), fiesse (Fr. fête "party, feast"), tchestea (Fr. château "castle"), and so on.
Final obstruent devoicing: rodje "red" is pronounced exactly as rotche "rock".
Nasal vowels may be followed by nasal consonants, as in djonne "young", crinme "cream", mannet "dirty", etc.
Vowel length has a phonological value. It allows distinguishing cu "arse" and cû "cooked", i l' hosse "he cradles her" and i l' hôsse "he increases it", messe "mass" and mêsse "master", etc.
Orthography[edit]
Main article: Walloon orthography
The Walloon alphabet generally consists of the basic ISO Latin Alphabet, and six types of diacritic. It also makes frequent use of digraphs. Various orthographies have been used, most notably the Feller system (sistinme Feller) and Unified Walloon (rifondou walon or rfondou walon).[13]
Characteristics[edit]
Language family[edit]
Walloon is distinguished from other languages in the langue d'oïl family both by archaism coming from Latin and by its significant borrowing from Germanic languages, as expressed in its phonetics, its lexicon, and its grammar. At the same time, Walloon phonetics are singularly conservative: the language has stayed fairly close to the form it took during the High Middle Ages.
Morphology[edit]
The plural feminine adjectives before the noun take an unstressed ending -ès (except in the Ardenne dialect): compare li djaene foye "the yellow leaf" and les djaenès foyes "the yellow leaves".
There is no gender difference in definite articles and possessives (except in the Ardenne dialect): compare Walloon li vweteure ("the car", feminine) and li cir ("the sky", masculine), with French la voiture but le ciel; Walloon has si coir ("his/her body", masculine) and si finiesse ("his/her window", feminine) while French has son corps but sa fenêtre.
Lexicon[edit]
Walloon has a few Latin remnants that have disappeared from neighboring Romance languages: compare Walloon dispierter to Spanish despertar and Romanian deștepta (all with the same meaning: "to awaken").
The most distinctive feature is its number of borrowings from Germanic languages (Dutch and German dialects): compare Walloon flåwe to today's Dutch flauw "weak" (cognate of English flaw). Other common borrowings, among hundreds of others, are dringuele ("tip"; Dutch drinkgeld), crole ("curl"; Dutch krul), spiter ("to spatter"; same root as the English to spit, and to spew, or German spützen; Dutch spuwen), li sprewe (the starling; Dutch spreeuw, or German Sperling).
Syntax[edit]
The adjective is often placed before the noun: compare Walloon on foirt ome with French un homme fort, "a strong man"; ene blanke måjhon and French une maison blanche, "a white house".
Borrowing from Germanic languages, the construction Cwè çki c'est di ça po ene fleur? "What kind of flower is this?" can be compared word for word to German Was ist das für eine Blume? and Dutch Wat is dat voor een bloem?, as opposed to Standard French Quelle sorte de fleur est-ce? or (colloquially) Quelle sorte de fleur est-ce que c'est?.
History[edit]
An auberge's sign in Crupet
From a linguistic point of view, Louis Remacle has shown that a good number of the developments that we now consider typical of Walloon appeared between the 8th and 12th centuries. Walloon "had a clearly defined identity from the beginning of the 13th century". In any case, linguistic[clarification needed] texts from the time do not mention the language, although they mention others in the langue d'oïl family, such as Picard and Lorrain. During the 15th century, scribes in the region called the language "Roman" when they needed to distinguish it. It is not until the beginning of the 16th century that first occurrence of the word "Walloon" appeared in the current linguistic sense. In 1510 or 1511, Jean Lemaire de Belges made the connection between Rommand to Vualon:
Et ceux cy [les habitants de Nivelles] parlent le vieil langage Gallique que nous appellons Vualon ou Rommand (...). Et de ladite ancienne langue Vualonne, ou Rommande, nous usons en nostre Gaule Belgique: Cestadire en Haynau, Cambresis, Artois, Namur, Liège, Lorraine, Ardenne et le Rommanbrabant, et est beaucoup differente du François, lequel est plus moderne, et plus gaillart.
And those people [the inhabitants of Nivelles] speak the old Gallic language which we call Vualon or Rommand (...). And we use the said old Vualon or Rommand language in our Belgian Gaul: That is to say in Hainaut, Cambrai, Artois, Namur, Liège, Lorraine, Ardennes and Rommand Brabant, and it is very different from French, which is more fashionable and courtly.
The word "Walloon" thus came closer to its current meaning: the vernacular of the Roman part of the Low Countries. One might say that the period which saw the establishment of the unifying supremacy of the Burgundians in the Walloon country was a turning-point in their linguistic history. The crystallization of a Walloon identity, as opposed to that of the thiois (i.e. Dutch-speaking) regions of the Low Countries, established "Walloon" as a word for designating its people. Somewhat later, the vernacular of these people became more clearly distinct from central French and other neighbouring langues d'oïl, prompting the abandonment of the vague term "Roman" as a linguistic, ethnic, and political designator for "Walloon".
Also at this time, following the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts in 1539, the French language replaced Latin for all administrative purposes in France. Established as the academic language, French became the object of a political effort at normalization; La Pléiade posited the view that when two languages of the same language family coexist, each can be defined only in opposition to the other. Around the year 1600, the French writing system became dominant in the Wallonia. From this time, too, dates a tradition of texts written in a language marked by traces of spoken Walloon. The written language of the preceding centuries, scripta, was a composite language with some Walloon characteristics but it did not attempt to be a systematic reproduction of the spoken language.
Walloon society and culture[edit]
Bilingual French-Walloon street sign in Fosses-la-Ville
Walloon was the predominant language of the Walloon people until the beginning of the 20th century, although they had a passing knowledge of French. Since that time, the use of French has spread to the extent that now only 15% of the Walloon population speak their ancestral language. Breaking the statistics down by age, 70–80% of the population aged over 60 speak Walloon, while only about 10% of those under 30 do so. Passing knowledge of Walloon is much more widespread: claimed by some 36–58% of the younger age bracket. Laurent Hendschel estimates there are 1,300,000 bilingual people in Wallonia (Walloon-French, Picard-French...).[14] Many French words that pertain to mining and to the textile trade derive from the Walloon-Picard complex.[15]
Legally, Walloon has been recognized since 1990 by the French Community of Belgium, the cultural authority of Wallonia, as an "indigenous regional language" which must be studied in schools and encouraged. The Walloon cultural movement includes the Union Culturelle Wallonne, an organization of over 200 amateur theatre circles, writers' groups, and school councils. About a dozen Walloon magazines publish regularly.  The Société de Langue et de Littérature Wallonne, founded in 1856, promotes Walloon literature and the study (dialectology, etymology, etc.) of the regional Roman languages of Wallonia.  There is a difference between the Walloon culture, according to the Manifesto for Walloon culture, and the Walloon language (even if the latter is a part of the culture).[vague]
Literature[edit]
The singer William Dunker [wa] (R, in front of Orval Brewery glass)
Cartoon in Walloon by José Schoovaerts [wa] for a 2010 issue of Walloon-speaking magazine Li Rantoele [wa]
Walloon lyrics to the song "Tins d' eraler"  (Time to go home).
Walloon-language literature has been printed since the 16th century, or at least since the beginning of the 17th century.[16] It had its "golden age" during the peak of the Flemish immigration to Wallonia in the 19th century: "That period saw an efflorescence of Walloon literature, plays and poems primarily, and the founding of many theaters and periodicals."[17]
The New York Public Library holds a large collection of literary works in Walloon, quite possibly the largest outside Belgium, and its holdings are representative of the output. Out of nearly a thousand works, twenty-six were published before 1880. Thereafter the numbers rise gradually year by year, reaching a peak of sixty-nine in 1903. After that, publications in Walloon fell markedly, to eleven in 1913.[17] Yves Quairiaux counted 4,800 plays for 1860–1914, published or not.[18] In this period, plays were almost the only popular entertainment in Wallonia. The Walloon-language theatre remains popular in the region; theatre is flourishing with more than 200 non-professional companies playing in the cities and villages of Wallonia for an audience of over 200,000 each year.[19]
During the 19th-century renaissance of Walloon-language literature, several authors adapted versions of Aesop's Fables to the racy speech (and subject matter) of Liège.[20] They included Charles Duvivier (in 1842); Joseph Lamaye (1845); and the team of Jean-Joseph Dehin (1847, 1851–1852) and François Bailleux (1851–1866), who covered books I-VI.[21] Adaptations into other dialects were made by Charles Letellier (Mons, 1842) and Charles Wérotte (Namur, 1844).  Decades later, Léon Bernus published some hundred imitations of La Fontaine in the dialect of Charleroi (1872);[22] he was followed during the 1880s by Joseph Dufrane, writing in the Borinage dialect under the pen-name Bosquètia. In the 20th century, Joseph Houziaux (1946) published a selection of 50 fables in the Condroz dialect.[23] The motive among Walloon speakers in both France and Belgium was to assert regional identity against the growing centralism and encroachment of the language of the capital, on what had until then been predominantly monoglot areas.
There are links between French literature and Walloon literature. For instance, the writer Raymond Queneau set the publication of a Walloon Poets' anthology for Editions Gallimard. Ubu roi was translated into Walloon by André Blavier, an important 'pataphysician of Verviers, and friend of Queneau, for the new and important Puppet theater of Liège of Jacques Ancion. The Al Botroûle theater operated "as the umbilical cord" in Walloon, indicating a desire to return to the source.[24] Jacques Ancion also wanted to develop a regular adult audience. "From the 19th century he included the Walloon play Tati l'Pèriquî by E. Remouchamps and the avant-garde Ubu roi by A. Jarry."[24] The scholar Jean-Marie Klinkenberg writes, "[T]he dialectal culture is no more a sign of attachment to the past but a way to participate to a new synthesis".[25]
Walloon is also being used in popular song. The most well-known singer in Walloon in present-day Wallonia is William Dunker (b. 15 March 1959).
Phrases[edit]
Walloon
Phonetic
French
Limburgian
Dutch
German
English
Walon
[walɔ̃]
Wallon
Waals
Waals
Wallonisch
Walloon
Diè wåde
[djɛ woːt] / [djɛ wɔːt]
Adieu
Diè wah
Tot ziens
Tschüss
Bye (from Goodbye, a contraction of "God be with ye")
Bondjoû
[bɔ̃dʒuː]
Bonjour
Daag
Goedendag
Guten Tag
Hello (Good day)
A
[a]
Salut
Ha/haj
Hoi
Hallo
Hi (often followed by another expression)
A rvey
[arvɛj]
Au revoir
Saluu/Daag/Hajje/Diè wah
Tot ziens
Auf Wiedersehen
Goodbye (lit. See you again/See you later)
Cmint dit-st on?
[kmɛ̃ dɪstɔ̃]
Comment dit-on?
Wie zaet me?
Hoe zegt men?
Wie sagt man?
How do you say (How does one say)?
Cmint daloz?
[kmɛ̃ dalɔ]
Comment allez-vous?
Wie geit 't?
Hoe gaat het?
Wie geht es?
How are you? (How goes it? / How's it going?)
Dji n' sais nén
[dʒɪn sɛː nɛ̃ ] / [dʒɪn se nẽ]
Je ne sais pas
Ich weit 't neet
Ik weet het niet
Ich weiß es nicht
I don't know
See also[edit]
Languages of Belgium
Walloons – the people
Belgian French – French as spoken in Belgium
Doncols & Sonlez: formerly Walloon-speaking villages in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
Manifesto for Walloon culture
Flemish dialects
References[edit]
Footnotes[edit]
^ a b "Europe and North Asia" (211-282) . Tapani Salminen (2007), C. Moseley · London & New York: Routledge
^ Walloon at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian (24 May 2022). "Oil". Glottolog. Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. Archived from the original on 8 October 2022. Retrieved 7 October 2022.
^ Université du Wisconsin : collection de documents sur l'immigration wallonne au Wisconsin, enregistrements de témoignages oraux en anglais et wallon, 1976 (in English) University of Wisconsin Digital Collection : Belgian-American Research Collection 
^ "Endangered languages: the full list". TheGuardian.com. 15 April 2011.
^ "It seems the revolutionaries themselves consider the fact French was enough close to the Walloon language so as not to manage Wallonia as Brittany, Corsica, Alsace or Flanders." (in French) "Le décret du 8 pluviôse An II (...) ne prévoit pas d'envoyer des instituteurs dans la Wallonie romane (contre l'avis de Grégoire qui souhaitait une campagne linguistique couvrant tout le territoire). Les révolutionnaires eux-mêmes semblent donc considérer que la proximité entre le français et le wallon est suffisamment grande pour ne pas traiter la Wallonie comme la Bretagne, la Corse, l'Alsace ou la Flandre." (in French) Astrid Von Busekist, Politique des langues et construction de l'État, Éd. Duculot, Gembloux, 1998, pp. 22–28
^ Décret Valmy Féaux, 14 December 1990
^ Feller Jules (1912). Notes de philologie wallonne. Liège: Vaillant Carmanne.
^ E.B. Atwood, "The phonological divisions of Belgo-Romance", in Orbis, 4, 1955, pp. 367–389.
^ "Belgian-American Research Collection", University of Wisconsin
^ Mf (17 October 2015). "Phlegmish & Walloony: Walloon ancestry in Wisconsin (USA)". Phlegmish & Walloony. Retrieved 17 January 2020. and Notes from the Field: Wisconsin Walloon Documentation and Orthography by Kelly Biers and Ellen Osterhaus, Language Documentation and Conservation, Vol. 15, 2021, pp. 1–29
^ Steven G. Kellman Switching languages: translingual writers reflect on their craft, p. 152.
^ Saratxaga, Pablo. "Introduction". Grammaire wallonne en ligne. Retrieved 26 June 2022.
^ Some other figures in Laurent Hendschel, "Quelques indices pour se faire une idée de la vitalité du Wallon", in Lucien Mahin (editor), Qué walon po dmwin?, Quorum, 1999, p. 128. ISBN 2-87399-072-4
^ Steven G. Kellman, Switching languages: translingual writers reflect on their craft, p. 152.
^ In his Anthologie de la littérature wallonne, Mardaga, Liège, 1978, ISBN 2-8021-0024-6 Maurice Piron is speaking (p. 5) about four dialogues printed between 1631 and 1636
^ a b Switching Languages, Translingual Writers Reflect on Their Craft, Ed. y Steven G. Kellman, Lincoln, NE: University of Nebraska Press, 2003, p. 153.  ISBN 978-0-8032-2747-7
^ Yves Quairiaux, L'image du Flamand en Wallonie, Essai d'analyse sociale et politique (1830-1914) (The Image of Flanders in Wallonia, Essay in Social and Political Analysis), Bruwxelles: Labor, 2006, p. 126. ISBN 2-8040-2174-2
^ Lorint Hendschel, "The Walloon Language Page" Archived 8 December 2011 at the Wayback Machine, Skynet, accessed 21 October 2010
^ Anthologie de la littérature wallonne (ed. Maurice Piron), Liège, 1979; limited preview at Google Books Google Books
^ There is a partial preview at Google Books 
^ The text of four can be found at Walon.org
^ "Lulucom.com". Lulucom.com. Retrieved 9 March 2013.
^ a b Joan Gross, Speaking in Other Voices: An Ethnography of Walloon Puppet Theaters. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins Press, 2001, ISBN 1-58811-054-0
^ Benoît Denis et Jean-Marie Klinkenberg, "Littérature : entre insularité et activisme" (Literature: between insularity and activism), in Le Tournant des années 1970. Liège en effervescence, Bruxelles, Les Impressions nouvelles, 2010, pp. 237–253, p. 252. French : Ancion monte l'Ubu rwè en 1975 (...) la culture dialectalisante cesse d'être une marque de passéisme pour participer à une nouvelle synthèse...
Citations[edit]
Maurice Piron, Anthologie de la littérature wallonne, Mardaga, Liège, 1978 (661 pages) ISBN 2-8021-0024-6.
de Reuse, Willem J. La phonologie du français de la région de Charleroi (Belgique) et ses rapports avec le wallon. La Linguistique Vol. 23, Fasc. 2. 1987.
Hendschel, Lorint. Li Croejhete Walone Contribution à une grammaire de la langue wallonne. 2001, 2012.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Walloon language.
 Walloon  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Web page of Common Written Walloon
Walloon, a living language in the 22nd century? by Lucien Mahin at the meeting "Promoting or demoting: the transmission of minority languages from past to present", University of Poitiers, France, 6 and 7 April 2018
Abstract
Synthetic presentation
Comprehensive grammar of Walloon Archived 17 December 2005 at the Wayback Machine (in French and under GFDL)
Walloon Swadesh list of basic vocabulary words (from Wiktionary's Swadesh list appendix)
phonetic system of Walloon Archived 27 April 2006 at the Wayback Machine
Union Culturelle Wallonne
Walloon - English dictionary of computing terms - Motî walon - inglès des copiutreces Archived 25 September 2020 at the Wayback Machine
vte Languages of BelgiumOfficial languages
Dutch
French
German
Germanic
Brabantian
East Flemish
Limburgish
West Flemish
Yiddish
Romance
Champenois
Lorrain
Picard
Walloon
Francosign
Flemish Sign Language
French Belgian Sign Language
Germanosign
German Sign Language
Indo-Aryan
Sinte Romani
vteLanguages and dialects of Benelux
Dutch
Brabantian
East Flemish
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
Zeelandic
Stadsfries
English
French language
Belgian French
Champenois
Lorrain
Picard
Walloon
High German
Standard High German
Luxembourgish
Ripuarian
Limburgish
Low German
Northern Low Saxon
Gronings
Westphalian
Achterhoeks
Drèents
Sallands
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Urkers
Veluws
Papiamento
West Frisian
Sign languages
Deutsche Gebärdensprache, DGS
Langue des signes Francophone de Belgique, LSFB
Nederlandse Gebarentaal, NGT
Vlaamse Gebarentaal, VGT
Languages of Belgium
Languages of the Netherlands
Languages of Luxembourg
vteGallo-Romance languages and dialectsAreal groups
Canadian French
Langues d'oïl
Angevin
Antillean Creole
Dominican
Grenadian
Saint Lucian
Berrichon
Bolze
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Burundi Pidgin
Camfranglais
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
French
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay
African
Abidjan
Kinshasa
Aostan
Belgian
Métis
New England
Québécois
Joual
Magoua
Cambodian
Francien
Franco-Ontarian
Frenchville
Haitian
Houma French
Indian
Jersey Legal French
Laotian
Middle French
Meridional
Metropolitan
Missouri
Muskrat
Newfoundland
Saint-Barthélemy
Standard
Swiss
Vietnamese
Gallo
Guianese
Haitian Creole
Karipúna Creole
Labrador Inuit Pidgin
Lorrain
Welche
Louisiana Creole
Louisiana French
Michif
Moselle Romance
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Law French
Old Norman
Sercquiais
Nouchi
Old French
Orléanais
Petit nègre
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Tayo
Tây Bồi
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Zarphatic
Bourbonnais Creoles
Agalega
Chagossian
Mauritian
Réunion
Rodriguan
Seychellois
Francoprovencalic
Faetar/Faetar-Cigliàje
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Italics indicate extinct languages or dialectsBold indicates varieties with more than 5 million speakersLanguages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
vteRomance languages (classification)Major branches
Eastern
Italo-Western
Italo-Dalmatian
Western
Southern
Eastern
Aromanian
Istro-Romanian
Megleno-Romanian
Romanian
dialects
Banat
Bukovinian
Crișana
Maramureș
Moldavian
Transylvanian
Wallachian
Common Romanian
Italo-DalmatianCentral
Central dialects
Central Marchigiano
Ancona
Fabriano
Macerata
Central−Northern Latian
Romanesco
Sabino
Corsican
Gallurese
Italian
Italo-Australian
Regional Italian
Swiss Italian
Sassarese
Tuscan
Florentine
Southern
Extreme Southern Italian
Central−Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Neapolitan–Calabrese
Neapolitan
Barese
Benevento
Castelmezzano
Cilentan
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Northern Calabrian
Southern Italian Koiné
Others
Dalmatian
Istriot
Judaeo-Italian
WesternGallo-Italic
Emilian-Romagnol
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Gallo-Picene
Ligurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Judeo-Italian
Lombard
Eastern
Bergamasque
Western
Brianzöö
Canzés
Bustocco–Legnanese
Comasco–Lecchese
Comasco
Laghée
Lecchese
Vallassinese
Milanese
Ossolano
Southwestern
Cremunés
Novarese
Pavese
Ticinese
Varesino
Piedmontese
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Gallo-RomanceLanguesd'oïl
Angevin
Berrichon
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
Gallo
French
Jersey
Meridional
North American dialects
Canadian
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay French
Brayon
Newfoundland
Quebec
Joual
Magoua
Franco-Ontarian
Métis
Muskrat
New England
Frenchville
Louisiania
Houma
Missouri French
Creoles
Lorrain
Welche
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Sercquiais
Orléanais
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Faetar
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Moselle Romance
Ibero-Romance(WestIberian)Asturleonese
Asturian
Western Asturian
Cantabrian
Leonese
Mirandese
Galician-Portuguese
Fala
Galician
Galician-Asturian/Eonavian
Minderico
Portugis
Portuguese
dialects
African
Asian
Brazilian
Mineiro
European
Estremenho
Uruguayan
Creoles
Judaeo-Portuguese
Castilian
Amazonic Spanish
Extremaduran
Judaeo-Spanish
Spanish
dialects
Equatoguinean
Latin American
Peruvian
Peruvian Ribereño
Peninsular
Andalusian
Llanito
Castilian
Castrapo
Castúo
Murcian
Philippine
Saharan
Creoles
Old Spanish
Others
Andalusi Romance
Barranquenho (mixed Portuguese–Spanish)
Caló (mixed Romani–Ibero- and Occitano-Romance)
Navarro-Aragonese
Aragonese
Judaeo-Aragonese
Occitano-Romance
Catalan
dialects
Eastern
Algherese
Balearic
Menorcan
Central
Northern
Judaeo-Catalan
Patuet
Western
Catalan Ribagorçan
Valencian
Occitan
Auvergnat
Gascon
Aranese
Béarnese
Landese
Judeo-Gascon
Judeo-Provençal
Languedocien
Limousin
Provençal
Niçard
Vivaro-Alpine
Gardiol
Mentonasc
Old Occitan
Old Catalan
Rhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Fornes
Ladin
Cadorino
Nones
Romansh
Jauer
Putèr
Surmiran
Sursilvan
Vallader
Others
Mediterranean Lingua Franca (Western Romance-based pidgin)
Venetian (unknown further classification)
Chipilo
Fiuman
Talian
Triestine
Others
African Romance
British Latin
Pannonian Romance
Sardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Reconstructed
Proto-Romance
Italics indicate extinct languages
Bold indicates languages with more than 5 million speakers
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Walloon_language&oldid=1173020801"
Categories: Oïl languagesLanguages of FranceLanguages of BelgiumWalloniaWalloon cultureHainaut (province)Liège ProvinceLuxembourg (Belgium)Namur (province)Walloon BrabantArdennes (department)Hidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18Articles with French-language sources (fr)Articles containing French-language textWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from September 2020Articles containing Walloon-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2023Languages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles with unsourced statements from March 2022Articles containing Spanish-language textArticles containing Romanian-language textArticles containing Dutch-language textArticles containing German-language textWikipedia articles needing clarification from February 2015Articles containing Middle French (ca. 1400-1600)-language textAll Wikipedia articles needing clarificationWikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2013Commons category link is on WikidataArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 30 August 2023, at 19:52 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width