09 August 2010 - Malaysia, Philippines committed to enhancing border security - News - My Sinchew
46 captures
01 Jan 2011 - 19 Oct 2022
Jan
MAR
Jul
03
2014
2016
2017
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks March 2016
  Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started March, 2016. These files are currently not publicly accessible.
Properties of this collection.
It has been several years since the last time we did this.
For this collection, several things were done:
1. Turned off duplicate detection.   This collection will be complete, as there is a
good chance we will share the data, and sharing data with pointers to random
other collections, is a complex problem.
2. For the first time, did all the different wikis.   The original runs were just against the 
enwiki.   This one, the seed list was built from all 865 collections.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20160303205247/http://www.mysinchew.com/node/43096
Home
  > 
News 
Malaysia, Philippines committed to enhancing border security
2010-08-09 17:26
By MOHD SHUKRI ISHAK
MANILA, Monday 9 August 2010 (Bernama) -- Malaysia and the Philippines have expressed commitment in ensuring security at the border and in tackling illegal immigration, Malaysian Defence Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said. 
Zahid said the matter was among the issues discussed during a meeting with Philippine national defence secretary Voltaire T. Gazmin. 
"There will be a follow up visit by the Malaysian foreign minister and home minister to show Malaysia's commitment in collaborating with the Philippines in the effort to enhance stability at the border," he told Malaysian journalists here. 
Zahid, who earlier called on Gazmin, is on a two-day visit to this country. 
Tomorrow, he would proceed to Mindanao to present humanitarian aid to the local community. 
Zahid also said that security at the Malaysia-Philippines border was under control. 
"The Malaysian security forces have been monitoring the waters in the east coast of Sabah, through the security operation known as the Ops Pasir, to maintain security in the area and prevent illegal immigrants from crossing the border," he said. 
The Ops Pasir was launched in September 2000. 
Zahid said during the meeting today, they agreed to further enhance ties including in terms of joint-exercise between the security forces of both countries. 
In Mindanao tomorrow, Zahid is scheduled to receive a briefing on the operations of the Malaysia-led International Monitoring Team which monitors the implementation of the cessation of hostilities between the Philippine government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF). 
MySinchew 2010.08.09
  
Mozambique debris to be sent to Australia for MH370 analysisIS-inspired militants on offensive in southern PhilippinesSlowing growth looms over China parliament meetingPenang govt gets leave to commence judicial review on PPSGoogle tests digital wallets that can stay in pocketsUS slams Malaysian attacks on press freedomRescuers check remote Indonesian islands after quakeMore
My SinChew
Copyright © 2015 MCIL Multimedia Sdn Bhd (515740-D). All rights reserved. Contact us : info@sinchew-i.com