Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2
W3C Proposed Recommendation 20 July 2023
More details about this document
This version:
https://www.w3.org/TR/2023/PR-WCAG22-20230720/
Latest published version:
https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/
Latest editor's draft:https://w3c.github.io/wcag/guidelines/22/
History:
https://www.w3.org/standards/history/WCAG22/
Commit history
Implementation report:
https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/implementation-report/
Latest Recommendation:https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/
Editors:
Chuck Adams (Oracle)
  
Alastair Campbell (Nomensa)
  
Rachael Montgomery (Invited Expert)
  
Michael Cooper (W3C)
  
Andrew Kirkpatrick (Adobe)
  
Feedback:
GitHub w3c/wcag
        (pull requests,
        new issue,
        open issues)
      
Copyright
    ©
    2020-2023
    
    World Wide Web Consortium.
    W3C®
liability,
    trademark and
    document use rules apply.
  
Abstract
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 covers a wide range of recommendations for making Web content more accessible. Following these guidelines will make content more accessible to a wider range of people with disabilities, including accommodations for blindness and low vision, deafness and hearing loss, limited movement, speech disabilities, photosensitivity, and combinations of these, and some accommodation for learning disabilities and cognitive limitations; but will not address every user need for people with these disabilities. These guidelines address accessibility of web content on desktops, laptops, tablets, and mobile devices. Following these guidelines will also often make Web content more usable to users in general.
WCAG 2.2 success criteria are written as testable statements that are not technology-specific. Guidance about satisfying the success criteria in specific technologies, as well as general information about interpreting the success criteria, is provided in separate documents. See Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview for an introduction and links to WCAG technical and educational material.
WCAG 2.2 extends Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 [WCAG21], which was published as a W3C Recommendation June 2018. Content that conforms to WCAG 2.2 also conforms to WCAG 2.0 and WCAG 2.1. The WG intends that for policies requiring conformance to WCAG 2.0 or WCAG 2.1, WCAG 2.2 can provide an alternate means of conformance. The publication of WCAG 2.2 does not deprecate or supersede WCAG 2.0 or WCAG 2.1. While WCAG 2.0 and WCAG 2.1 remain W3C Recommendations, the W3C advises the use of WCAG 2.2 to maximize future applicability of accessibility efforts. The W3C also encourages use of the most current version of WCAG when developing or updating Web accessibility policies.
Status of This DocumentThis section describes the status of this
      document at the time of its publication. A list of current W3C
      publications and the latest revision of this technical report can be found
      in the W3C technical reports index at
      https://www.w3.org/TR/.
This is a Proposed Recommendation of Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2. WCAG 2.2 was published as a Candidate Recommendation on 17 May 2023. Two previous Candidate Recommendations were published on 25 January 2023 and 6 September 2022, which resulted in normative changes due to implementation experience. The Working Group has completed work on the implementation report and no items at risk were removed from this version. A history of changes to WCAG 2.2 is available in the appendix.
The primary purpose of the Proposed Recommendation is to collect feedback from the Advisory Committee. W3C Advisory Committee Members are invited to send formal review comments to the W3C Team until 18 August 2023. Comments should be made using the Call for Review WBS form.
Note that WCAG 2.2 is not yet a W3C Recommendation. WCAG 2.1 is the latest W3C Recommendation.
To comment, aside from Advisory Committe comments, file an issue in the W3C WCAG GitHub repository. Although the proposed Success Criteria in this document reference issues tracking discussion, the Working Group requests that public comments be filed as new issues, one issue per discrete comment. It is free to create a GitHub account to file issues. If filing issues in GitHub is not feasible, send email to public-agwg-comments@w3.org (comment archive). 
    This document was published by the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group as
    a Proposed Recommendation using the
        Recommendation track. 
  Publication as a Proposed Recommendation does not
  imply endorsement by W3C and its Members. 
    This is a draft document and may be updated, replaced or obsoleted by other
    documents at any time. It is inappropriate to cite this document as other
    than work in progress.
    
  
        The W3C Membership and other interested parties are invited to review
        the document and send comments through 18 July 2023.
        Advisory Committee Representatives should consult their
        WBS questionnaires. Note that substantive technical comments were expected during the
        Candidate Recommendation review period that ended
        16 June 2023.
      
    
        This document was produced by a group
        operating under the
        1 August 2017 W3C Patent
          Policy.
      
    
                W3C maintains a
                public list of any patent disclosures
          made in connection with the deliverables of
          the group; that page also includes
          instructions for disclosing a patent. An individual who has actual
          knowledge of a patent which the individual believes contains
          Essential Claim(s)
          must disclose the information in accordance with
          section 6 of the W3C Patent Policy.
        
  
                  This document is governed by the
                  12 June 2023 W3C Process Document.
                Table of ContentsAbstractStatus of This DocumentIntroductionBackground on WCAG 2WCAG 2 Layers of GuidanceWCAG 2.2 Supporting DocumentsRequirements for WCAG 2.2Comparison with WCAG 2.1New Features in WCAG 2.2Numbering in WCAG 2.2Conformance to WCAG 2.2Later Versions of Accessibility Guidelines1.  Perceivable 1.1 Text Alternatives1.1.1 Non-text Content1.2 Time-based Media1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)1.2.4 Captions (Live)1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded)1.2.6 Sign Language (Prerecorded)1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)1.2.8 Media Alternative (Prerecorded)1.2.9 Audio-only (Live)1.3 Adaptable1.3.1 Info and Relationships1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics1.3.4 Orientation1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose1.3.6 Identify Purpose1.4 Distinguishable1.4.1 Use of Color1.4.2 Audio Control1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)1.4.4 Resize Text1.4.5 Images of Text1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)1.4.7 Low or No Background Audio1.4.8 Visual Presentation1.4.9 Images of Text (No Exception)1.4.10 Reflow1.4.11 Non-text Contrast1.4.12 Text Spacing1.4.13 Content on Hover or Focus2. Operable 2.1 Keyboard Accessible2.1.1 Keyboard2.1.2 No Keyboard Trap2.1.3 Keyboard (No Exception)2.1.4 Character Key Shortcuts2.2 Enough Time2.2.1 Timing Adjustable2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide2.2.3 No Timing2.2.4 Interruptions2.2.5 Re-authenticating2.2.6 Timeouts2.3 Seizures and Physical Reactions2.3.1 Three Flashes or Below Threshold2.3.2 Three Flashes2.3.3 Animation from Interactions2.4 Navigable2.4.1 Bypass Blocks2.4.2 Page Titled2.4.3 Focus Order2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)2.4.5 Multiple Ways2.4.6 Headings and Labels2.4.7 Focus Visible2.4.8 Location2.4.9 Link Purpose (Link Only)2.4.10 Section Headings2.4.11 Focus Not Obscured (Minimum)2.4.12 Focus Not Obscured (Enhanced)2.4.13 Focus Appearance2.5 Input Modalities2.5.1 Pointer Gestures2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation2.5.3 Label in Name2.5.4 Motion Actuation2.5.5 Target Size (Enhanced)2.5.6 Concurrent Input Mechanisms2.5.7 Dragging Movements2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)3.  Understandable 3.1 Readable3.1.1 Language of Page3.1.2 Language of Parts3.1.3 Unusual Words3.1.4 Abbreviations3.1.5 Reading Level3.1.6 Pronunciation3.2 Predictable3.2.1 On Focus3.2.2 On Input3.2.3 Consistent Navigation3.2.4 Consistent Identification3.2.5 Change on Request3.2.6 Consistent Help3.3 Input Assistance3.3.1 Error Identification3.3.2 Labels or Instructions3.3.3 Error Suggestion3.3.4 Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)3.3.5 Help3.3.6 Error Prevention (All)3.3.7 Redundant Entry3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum)3.3.9 Accessible Authentication (Enhanced)4.  Robust 4.1 Compatible4.1.1 Parsing (Obsolete and removed)4.1.2 Name, Role, Value4.1.3 Status Messages5. Conformance5.1 Interpreting Normative Requirements5.2 Conformance Requirements5.2.1 Conformance Level5.2.2 Full pages5.2.3 Complete processes5.2.4 Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of Using Technologies5.2.5 Non-Interference5.3 Conformance Claims (Optional) 5.3.1 Required Components of a Conformance Claim5.3.2 Optional Components of a Conformance Claim 5.4 Statement of Partial Conformance - Third Party Content5.5 Statement of Partial Conformance - Language6. Glossary7. Input Purposes for User Interface ComponentsA. Change LogB. AcknowledgmentsB.1 Participants of the AG WG active in the development of this document:B.2 Other previously active WCAG WG participants and other contributors to WCAG 2.0, WCAG 2.1, or supporting resources B.3 Enabling fundersC. ReferencesC.1 Normative referencesC.2 Informative references
IntroductionThis section is non-normative.
Background on WCAG 2
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 defines how to make Web content more accessible to people with disabilities. Accessibility involves a wide range of disabilities, including visual, auditory, physical, speech, cognitive, language, learning, and neurological disabilities. Although these guidelines cover a wide range of issues, they are not able to address the needs of people with all types, degrees, and combinations of disability. These guidelines also make Web content more usable by older individuals with changing abilities due to aging and often improve usability for users in general.
WCAG 2.2 is developed through the W3C process in cooperation with individuals and organizations around the world, with a goal of providing a shared standard for Web content accessibility that meets the needs of individuals, organizations, and governments internationally. WCAG 2.2 builds on WCAG 2.0 [WCAG20] and WCAG 2.1 [WCAG21], which in turn built on WCAG 1.0 [WAI-WEBCONTENT] and is designed to apply broadly to different Web technologies now and in the future, and to be testable with a combination of automated testing and human evaluation. For an introduction to WCAG, see the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview.
Significant challenges were encountered in defining additional criteria to address cognitive, language, and learning disabilities, including a short timeline for development as well as challenges in reaching consensus on testability, implementability, and international considerations of proposals. Work will carry on in this area in future versions of WCAG. We encourage authors to refer to our supplemental guidance on improving inclusion for people with disabilities, including learning and cognitive disabilities, people with low-vision, and more.
Web accessibility depends not only on accessible content but also on accessible Web browsers and other user agents. Authoring tools also have an important role in Web accessibility. For an overview of how these components of Web development and interaction work together, see:
Essential Components of Web Accessibility
User Agent Accessibility Guidelines (UAAG) Overview
Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines (ATAG) Overview
Where this document refers to WCAG 2 it is intended to mean any and all versions of WCAG that start with 2.
WCAG 2 Layers of Guidance
The individuals and organizations that use WCAG vary widely and include Web designers and developers, policy makers, purchasing agents, teachers, and students. In order to meet the varying needs of this audience, several layers of guidance are provided including overall principles, general guidelines, testable success criteria and a rich collection of sufficient techniques, advisory techniques, and documented common failures with examples, resource links and code.
Principles - At the top are four principles that provide the foundation for Web accessibility: perceivable, operable, understandable, and robust. See also Understanding the Four Principles of Accessibility.
Guidelines - Under the principles are guidelines. The 13 guidelines provide the basic goals that authors should work toward in order to make content more accessible to users with different disabilities. The guidelines are not testable, but provide the framework and overall objectives to help authors understand the success criteria and better implement the techniques.
Success Criteria - For each guideline, testable success criteria are provided to allow WCAG 2.2 to be used where requirements and conformance testing are necessary such as in design specification, purchasing, regulation, and contractual agreements. In order to meet the needs of different groups and different situations, three levels of conformance are defined: A (lowest), AA, and AAA (highest). Additional information on WCAG levels can be found in Understanding Levels of Conformance.
Sufficient and Advisory Techniques - For each of the guidelines and success criteria in the WCAG 2.2 document itself, the working group has also documented a wide variety of techniques. The techniques are informative and fall into two categories: those that are sufficient for meeting the success criteria and those that are advisory. The advisory techniques go beyond what is required by the individual success criteria and allow authors to better address the guidelines. Some advisory techniques address accessibility barriers that are not covered by the testable success criteria. Where common failures are known, these are also documented. See also Sufficient and Advisory Techniques in Understanding WCAG 2.2.
All of these layers of guidance (principles, guidelines, success criteria, and sufficient and advisory techniques) work together to provide guidance on how to make content more accessible. Authors are encouraged to view and apply all layers that they are able to, including the advisory techniques, in order to best address the needs of the widest possible range of users.
Note that even content that conforms at the highest level (AAA) will not be accessible to individuals with all types, degrees, or combinations of disability, particularly in the cognitive, language, and learning areas. Authors are encouraged to consider the full range of techniques, including the advisory techniques, Making Content Usable for People with Cognitive and Learning Disabilities, as well as to seek relevant advice about current best practice to ensure that Web content is accessible, as far as possible, to this community. Metadata may assist users in finding content most suitable for their needs. 
WCAG 2.2 Supporting Documents
The WCAG 2.2 document is designed to meet the needs of those who need a stable, referenceable technical standard. Other documents, called supporting documents, are based on the WCAG 2.2 document and address other important purposes, including the ability to be updated to describe how WCAG would be applied with new technologies. Supporting documents include: 
How to Meet WCAG 2.2 - A customizable quick reference to WCAG 2.2 that includes all of the guidelines, success criteria, and techniques for authors to use as they are developing and evaluating Web content. This includes content from WCAG 2.0, 2.1 2.2 and can be filtered in many ways to help authors focus on relevant content.
Understanding WCAG 2.2 - A guide to understanding and implementing WCAG 2.2. There is a short "Understanding" document for each guideline and success criterion in WCAG 2.2 as well as key topics.
Techniques for WCAG 2.2 - A collection of techniques and common failures, each in a separate document that includes a description, examples, code and tests.
The WCAG 2 Documents - A brief introduction to the WCAG 2 supporting documents and supplemental guidance.
What's New in WCAG 2.2 introduces the new success criteria with persona quotes that illustrate the accessibility issues. 
See Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview for a description of the WCAG 2.2 supporting material, including education resources related to WCAG 2. Additional resources covering topics such as the business case for Web accessibility, planning implementation to improve the accessibility of Web sites, and accessibility policies are listed in WAI Resources.
Requirements for WCAG 2.2
WCAG 2.2 meets a set of requirements for WCAG 2.2 which, in turn, inherit requirements from previous WCAG 2 versions. Requirements structure the overall framework of guidelines and ensure backwards compatibility. The Working Group also used a less formal set of acceptance criteria for success criteria, to help ensure success criteria are similar in style and quality to those in WCAG 2.0. These requirements constrained what could be included in WCAG 2.2. This constraint was important to preserve its nature as a dot-release of WCAG 2.
Comparison with WCAG 2.1
WCAG 2.2 was initiated with the goal to continue the work of WCAG 2.1: Improving accessibility guidance for three major groups: users with cognitive or learning disabilities, users with low vision, and users with disabilities on mobile devices. Many ways to meet these needs were proposed and evaluated, and a set of these were refined by the Working Group. Structural requirements inherited from WCAG 2.0, clarity and impact of proposals, and timeline led to the final set of success criteria included in this version. The Working Group considers that WCAG 2.2 incrementally advances web content accessibility guidance for all these areas, but underscores that not all user needs are met by these guidelines.
WCAG 2.2 builds on and is backwards compatible with WCAG 2.1, meaning web pages that conform to WCAG 2.2 are at least as accessible as pages that conform to WCAG 2.1. Requirements have been added that build on 2.1 and 2.0. WCAG 2.2 has removed one success criterion, 4.1.1 Parsing. Authors that are required by policy to conform with WCAG 2.0 or 2.1 will be able to update content to WCAG 2.2, but may need to continue to test and report 4.1.1. Authors following more than one version of the guidelines should be aware of the following additions.
New Features in WCAG 2.2
WCAG 2.2 extends WCAG 2.1 by adding new success criteria, definitions to support them, and guidelines to organize the additions. This additive approach helps to make it clear that sites which conform to WCAG 2.2 also conform to WCAG 2.1. The Accessibility Guidelines Working Group recommends that sites adopt WCAG 2.2 as their new conformance target, even if formal obligations mention previous versions, to provide improved accessibility and to anticipate future policy changes.
The following success criteria are new in WCAG 2.2:
2.4.11 Focus Not Obscured (Minimum) (AA)
2.4.12 Focus Not Obscured (Enhanced) (AAA)
2.4.13 Focus Appearance (AAA)
2.5.7 Dragging Movements (AA)
2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum) (AA)
3.2.6 Consistent Help (A)
3.3.7 Redundant Entry (A)
3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum) (AA)
3.3.9 Accessible Authentication (Enhanced) (AAA)
The new success criteria may reference new terms that have also been added to the glossary and form part of the normative requirements of the success criteria.
Numbering in WCAG 2.2
In order to avoid confusion for implementers for whom backwards compatibility to WCAG 2 versions is important, new success criteria in WCAG 2.2 have been appended to the end of the set of success criteria within their guideline. This avoids the need to change the section number of success criteria from WCAG 2, which would be caused by inserting new success criteria between existing success criteria in the guideline, but it means success criteria in each guideline are no longer grouped by conformance level. The order of success criteria within each guideline does not imply information about conformance level; only the conformance level indicator (A / AA / AAA) on the success criterion itself indicates this. The WCAG 2.2 Quick Reference will provide a way to view success criteria grouped by conformance level, along with many other filter and sort options.
Conformance to WCAG 2.2
WCAG 2.2 uses the same conformance model as WCAG 2.0. It is intended that sites that conform to WCAG 2.2 also conform to WCAG 2.0 and WCAG 2.1, which means they meet the requirements of any policies that reference WCAG 2.0 or WCAG 2.1, while also better meeting the needs of users on the current Web. 
Later Versions of Accessibility Guidelines
In parallel with WCAG 2.2, the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group is developing another major version of accessibility guidelines. The result of this work is expected to be a more substantial restructuring of web accessibility guidance than would be realistic for dot-releases of WCAG 2. The work follows a research-focused, user-centered design methodology to produce the most effective and flexible outcome, including the roles of content authoring, user agent support, and authoring tool support. This is a multi-year effort, so WCAG 2.2 is needed as an interim measure to provide updated web accessibility guidance to reflect changes on the web since the publication of WCAG 2.0. The Working Group might also develop additional interim versions, continuing with WCAG 2.2, on a similar short timeline to provide additional support while the major version is completed. 
1.  Perceivable 
Information and user interface components must be presentable to users in ways they can perceive.
Guideline 1.1 Text Alternatives
Understanding Text Alternatives | How to Meet Text AlternativesProvide text alternatives for any non-text content so that it can be changed into other forms people need, such as large print, braille, speech, symbols or simpler language.
Success Criterion 1.1.1 Non-text Content
Understanding Non-text Content | How to Meet Non-text Content(Level A)
All non-text content that is presented to the user has a text alternative that serves the equivalent purpose, except for the situations listed below.
   
Controls, Input
If non-text content is a control or accepts user input, then it has a name that describes its purpose. (Refer to Success Criterion 4.1.2 for additional requirements for controls and content that accepts user input.)
         
Time-Based Media
If non-text content is time-based media, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive
            identification of the non-text content. (Refer to Guideline 1.2 for additional requirements for media.)
         
Test
If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be invalid if presented in text, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text
            content.
         
Sensory
If non-text content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of the non-text
            content.
         
CAPTCHA
If the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is being accessed by
            a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and describe
            the purpose of the non-text content are provided, and alternative forms of CAPTCHA
            using output modes for different types of sensory perception are provided to accommodate
            different disabilities.
         
Decoration, Formatting, Invisible
If non-text content is pure decoration, is used only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users, then it is implemented
            in a way that it can be ignored by assistive technology.
         
Guideline 1.2 Time-based Media
Understanding Time-based Media | How to Meet Time-based MediaProvide alternatives for time-based media.
Success Criterion 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
Understanding Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded) | How to Meet Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)(Level A)
For prerecorded
audio-only and prerecorded video-only media, the following are true, except when the audio or video is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such:
   
Prerecorded Audio-only
An alternative for time-based media is provided that presents equivalent information for prerecorded audio-only content.
         
Prerecorded Video-only
Either an alternative for time-based media or an audio track is provided that presents
            equivalent information for prerecorded video-only content.
         
Success Criterion 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
Understanding Captions (Prerecorded) | How to Meet Captions (Prerecorded)(Level A)
Captions are provided for all prerecorded
audio content in synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.
   
Success Criterion 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
Understanding Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded) | How to Meet Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)(Level A)
An alternative for time-based media or audio description of the prerecorded
video content is provided for synchronized media, except when the media is a media alternative for text and is clearly labeled as such.
   
Success Criterion 1.2.4 Captions (Live)
Understanding Captions (Live) | How to Meet Captions (Live)(Level AA)
Captions are provided for all live
audio content in synchronized media.
   
Success Criterion 1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded)
Understanding Audio Description (Prerecorded) | How to Meet Audio Description (Prerecorded)(Level AA)
Audio description is provided for all prerecorded
video content in synchronized media.
   
Success Criterion 1.2.6 Sign Language (Prerecorded)
Understanding Sign Language (Prerecorded) | How to Meet Sign Language (Prerecorded)(Level AAA)
Sign language interpretation is provided for all prerecorded
audio content in synchronized media.
   
Success Criterion 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
Understanding Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded) | How to Meet Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)(Level AAA)
Where pauses in foreground audio are insufficient to allow audio descriptions to convey the sense of the video, extended audio description is provided for all prerecorded
video content in synchronized media.
   
Success Criterion 1.2.8 Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
Understanding Media Alternative (Prerecorded) | How to Meet Media Alternative (Prerecorded)(Level AAA)
An alternative for time-based media is provided for all prerecorded
synchronized media and for all prerecorded video-only media.
   
Success Criterion 1.2.9 Audio-only (Live)
Understanding Audio-only (Live) | How to Meet Audio-only (Live)(Level AAA)
An alternative for time-based media that presents equivalent information for live
audio-only content is provided.
   
Guideline 1.3 Adaptable
Understanding Adaptable | How to Meet AdaptableCreate content that can be presented in different ways (for example simpler layout) without losing information or structure.
Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
Understanding Info and Relationships | How to Meet Info and Relationships(Level A)
Information, structure, and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text.
   
Success Criterion 1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence
Understanding Meaningful Sequence | How to Meet Meaningful Sequence(Level A)
When the sequence in which content is presented affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence can be programmatically determined.
   
Success Criterion 1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics
Understanding Sensory Characteristics | How to Meet Sensory Characteristics(Level A)
Instructions provided for understanding and operating content do not rely solely on
      sensory characteristics of components such as shape, color, size, visual location, orientation,
      or sound.
   
NoteFor requirements related to color, refer to Guideline 1.4.
Success Criterion 1.3.4 Orientation
Understanding Orientation | How to Meet Orientation(Level AA)
Content does not restrict its view and operation to a single display orientation, such as portrait or landscape, unless a specific display orientation is essential.
NoteExamples where a particular display orientation may be essential are a bank check, a piano application, slides for a projector or television, or virtual reality content where content is not necessarily restricted to landscape or portrait display orientation.
Success Criterion 1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose
Understanding Identify Input Purpose | How to Meet Identify Input Purpose(Level AA)
The purpose of each input field collecting information about the user can be programmatically determined when:
The input field serves a purpose identified in the Input Purposes for user interface components section; and
The content is implemented using technologies with support for identifying the expected meaning for form input data.
Success Criterion 1.3.6 Identify Purpose
Understanding Identify Purpose | How to Meet Identify Purpose(Level AAA)
In content implemented using markup languages, the purpose of user interface components, icons, and regions can be programmatically determined.
Guideline 1.4 Distinguishable
Understanding Distinguishable | How to Meet DistinguishableMake it easier for users to see and hear content including separating foreground from background.
Success Criterion 1.4.1 Use of Color
Understanding Use of Color | How to Meet Use of Color(Level A)
Color is not used as the only visual means of conveying information, indicating an
      action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.
   
NoteThis success criterion addresses color perception specifically. Other forms of perception are covered in Guideline 1.3 including programmatic access to color and other visual presentation coding.
Success Criterion 1.4.2 Audio Control
Understanding Audio Control | How to Meet Audio Control(Level A)
If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism is available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to control audio
      volume independently from the overall system volume level.
   
NoteSince any content that does not meet this success criterion can interfere with a user's
      ability to use the whole page, all content on the Web page (whether or not it is used
      to meet other success criteria) must meet this success criterion. See Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference.
   
Success Criterion 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
Understanding Contrast (Minimum) | How to Meet Contrast (Minimum)(Level AA)
The visual presentation of text and images of text has a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, except for the following:
   
Large Text
Large-scale text and images of large-scale text have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1;
         
Incidental
Text or images of text that are part of an inactive user interface component, that are pure decoration, that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture that contains significant
            other visual content, have no contrast requirement.
         
Logotypes
Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no contrast requirement.
Success Criterion 1.4.4 Resize Text
Understanding Resize Text | How to Meet Resize Text(Level AA)
Except for captions and images of text, text can be resized without assistive technology up to 200 percent without loss of content or functionality.
   
Success Criterion 1.4.5 Images of Text
Understanding Images of Text | How to Meet Images of Text(Level AA)
If the technologies being used can achieve the visual presentation, text is used to convey information rather than images of text except for the following:
   
Customizable
The image of text can be visually customized to the user's requirements;
         
Essential
A particular presentation of text is essential to the information being conveyed.
         
NoteLogotypes (text that is part of a logo or brand name) are considered essential.
Success Criterion 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
Understanding Contrast (Enhanced) | How to Meet Contrast (Enhanced)(Level AAA)
The visual presentation of text and images of text has a contrast ratio of at least 7:1, except for the following:
   
Large Text
Large-scale text and images of large-scale text have a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1;
         
Incidental
Text or images of text that are part of an inactive user interface component, that are pure decoration, that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture that contains significant
            other visual content, have no contrast requirement.
         
Logotypes
Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no contrast requirement.
Success Criterion 1.4.7 Low or No Background Audio
Understanding Low or No Background Audio | How to Meet Low or No Background Audio(Level AAA)
For prerecorded
audio-only content that (1) contains primarily speech in the foreground, (2) is not an audio
      CAPTCHA or audio logo, and (3) is not vocalization intended to be primarily musical expression
      such as singing or rapping, at least one of the following is true:
   
No Background
The audio does not contain background sounds.
Turn Off
The background sounds can be turned off.
20 dB
The background sounds are at least 20 decibels lower than the foreground speech content,
            with the exception of occasional sounds that last for only one or two seconds.
         
NotePer the definition of "decibel," background sound that meets this requirement will
            be approximately four times quieter than the foreground speech content.
         
Success Criterion 1.4.8 Visual Presentation
Understanding Visual Presentation | How to Meet Visual Presentation(Level AAA)
For the visual presentation of blocks of text, a mechanism is available to achieve the following:
   
Foreground and background colors can be selected by the user.
Width is no more than 80 characters or glyphs (40 if CJK).
Text is not justified (aligned to both the left and the right margins).
Line spacing (leading) is at least space-and-a-half within paragraphs, and paragraph spacing is at least 1.5 times larger than the line spacing.
Text can be resized without assistive technology up to 200 percent in a way that does not require the user to scroll horizontally to read a line of text on a full-screen window.
Success Criterion 1.4.9 Images of Text (No Exception)
Understanding Images of Text (No Exception) | How to Meet Images of Text (No Exception)(Level AAA)
Images of text are only used for pure decoration or where a particular presentation of text is essential to the information being conveyed.
   
NoteLogotypes (text that is part of a logo or brand name) are considered essential.
Success Criterion 1.4.10 Reflow
Understanding Reflow | How to Meet Reflow(Level AA)
Content can be presented without loss of information or functionality, and without requiring scrolling in two dimensions for:
Vertical scrolling content at a width equivalent to 320 CSS pixels;
Horizontal scrolling content at a height equivalent to 256 CSS pixels.
Except for parts of the content which require two-dimensional layout for usage or meaning.
Note320 CSS pixels is equivalent to a starting viewport width of 1280 CSS pixels wide at 400% zoom. For web content which is designed to scroll horizontally (e.g., with vertical text), 256 CSS pixels is equivalent to a starting viewport height of 1024 CSS pixels at 400% zoom.
NoteExamples of content which requires two-dimensional layout are images required for understanding (such as maps and diagrams), video, games, presentations, data tables (not individual cells), and interfaces where it is necessary to keep toolbars in view while manipulating content. It is acceptable to provide two-dimensional scrolling for such parts of the content.
Success Criterion 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast
Understanding Non-text Contrast | How to Meet Non-text Contrast(Level AA)
The visual presentation of the following have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 against adjacent color(s):
User Interface Components
Visual information required to identify user interface components and states, except for inactive components or where the appearance of the component is determined by the user agent and not modified by the author;
Graphical Objects
Parts of graphics required to understand the content, except when a particular presentation of graphics is essential to the information being conveyed.
Success Criterion 1.4.12 Text Spacing
Understanding Text Spacing | How to Meet Text Spacing(Level AA)
In content implemented using markup languages that support the following text style properties, no loss of content or functionality occurs by setting all of the following and by changing no other style property:
Line height (line spacing) to at least 1.5 times the font size;
Spacing following paragraphs to at least 2 times the font size;
Letter spacing (tracking) to at least 0.12 times the font size;
Word spacing to at least 0.16 times the font size.
Exception: Human languages and scripts that do not make use of one or more of these text style properties in written text can conform using only the properties that exist for that combination of language and script.
Success Criterion 1.4.13 Content on Hover or Focus
Understanding Content on Hover or Focus | How to Meet Content on Hover or Focus(Level AA)
Where receiving and then removing pointer hover or keyboard focus triggers additional content to become visible and then hidden, the following are true:
Dismissible
A mechanism is available to dismiss the additional content without moving pointer hover or keyboard focus, unless the additional content communicates an input error or does not obscure or replace other content;
Hoverable
If pointer hover can trigger the additional content, then the pointer can be moved  over the additional content without the additional content disappearing;
Persistent
The additional content remains visible until the hover or focus trigger is removed, the user dismisses it, or its information is no longer valid.
Exception: The visual presentation of the additional content is controlled by the user agent and is not modified by the author.
NoteExamples of additional content controlled by the user agent include browser tooltips created through use of the HTML title attribute.
NoteCustom tooltips, sub-menus, and other nonmodal popups that display on hover and focus are examples of additional content covered by this criterion.
NoteThis criterion applies to content that appears in addition to the triggering component itself. Since hidden components that are made visible on keyboard focus (such as links used to skip to another part of a page) do not present additional content they are not covered by this criterion.
2. Operable 
User interface components and navigation must be operable.
Guideline 2.1 Keyboard Accessible
Understanding Keyboard Accessible | How to Meet Keyboard AccessibleMake all functionality available from a keyboard.
Success Criterion 2.1.1 Keyboard
Understanding Keyboard | How to Meet Keyboard(Level A)
All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except where the underlying
      function requires input that depends on the path of the user's movement and not just
      the endpoints.
   
NoteThis exception relates to the underlying function, not the input technique. For example,
      if using handwriting to enter text, the input technique (handwriting) requires path-dependent
      input but the underlying function (text input) does not.
   
NoteThis does not forbid and should not discourage providing mouse input or other input
      methods in addition to keyboard operation.
   
Success Criterion 2.1.2 No Keyboard Trap
Understanding No Keyboard Trap | How to Meet No Keyboard Trap(Level A)
If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of the page using a keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away from that component using only a keyboard interface,
      and, if it requires more than unmodified arrow or tab keys or other standard exit
      methods, the user is advised of the method for moving focus away.
   
NoteSince any content that does not meet this success criterion can interfere with a user's
      ability to use the whole page, all content on the Web page (whether it is used to
      meet other success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference.
   
Success Criterion 2.1.3 Keyboard (No Exception)
Understanding Keyboard (No Exception) | How to Meet Keyboard (No Exception)(Level AAA)
All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes.
   
Success Criterion 2.1.4 Character Key Shortcuts
Understanding Character Key Shortcuts | How to Meet Character Key Shortcuts(Level A)
If a keyboard shortcut is implemented in content using only letter (including upper- and lower-case letters), punctuation, number, or symbol characters, then at least one of the following is true:
Turn off
A mechanism is available to turn the shortcut off;
Remap
A mechanism is available to remap the shortcut to include one or more non-printable keyboard keys (e.g., Ctrl, Alt);
Active only on focus
The keyboard shortcut for a user interface component is only active when that component has focus.
Guideline 2.2 Enough Time
Understanding Enough Time | How to Meet Enough TimeProvide users enough time to read and use content.
Success Criterion 2.2.1 Timing Adjustable
Understanding Timing Adjustable | How to Meet Timing Adjustable(Level A)
For each time limit that is set by the content, at least one of the following is true:
Turn off
The user is allowed to turn off the time limit before encountering it; or
Adjust
The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before encountering it over a wide range
            that is at least ten times the length of the default setting; or
         
Extend
The user is warned before time expires and given at least 20 seconds to extend the
            time limit with a simple action (for example, "press the space bar"), and the user
            is allowed to extend the time limit at least ten times; or
         
Real-time Exception
The time limit is a required part of a real-time event (for example, an auction),
            and no alternative to the time limit is possible; or
         
Essential Exception
The time limit is essential and extending it would invalidate the activity; or
         
20 Hour Exception
The time limit is longer than 20 hours.
NoteThis success criterion helps ensure that users can complete tasks without unexpected
      changes in content or context that are a result of a time limit. This success criterion
      should be considered in conjunction with Success Criterion 3.2.1, which puts limits on changes of content or context as a result of user action.
   
Success Criterion 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide
Understanding Pause, Stop, Hide | How to Meet Pause, Stop, Hide(Level A)
For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating information, all of the following are true:
   
Moving, blinking, scrolling
For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that (1) starts automatically, (2)
            lasts more than five seconds, and (3) is presented in parallel with other content,
            there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity
            where it is essential; and
         
Auto-updating
For any auto-updating information that (1) starts automatically and (2) is presented
            in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop,
            or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the auto-updating is part
            of an activity where it is essential.
         
NoteFor requirements related to flickering or flashing content, refer to Guideline 2.3.
   
NoteSince any content that does not meet this success criterion can interfere with a user's
      ability to use the whole page, all content on the Web page (whether it is used to
      meet other success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference.
   
NoteContent that is updated periodically by software or that is streamed to the user agent
      is not required to preserve or present information that is generated or received between
      the initiation of the pause and resuming presentation, as this may not be technically
      possible, and in many situations could be misleading to do so.
   
NoteAn animation that occurs as part of a preload phase or similar situation can be considered
      essential if interaction cannot occur during that phase for all users and if not indicating
      progress could confuse users or cause them to think that content was frozen or broken.
   
Success Criterion 2.2.3 No Timing
Understanding No Timing | How to Meet No Timing(Level AAA)
Timing is not an essential part of the event or activity presented by the content, except for non-interactive
      synchronized media and real-time events.
   
Success Criterion 2.2.4 Interruptions
Understanding Interruptions | How to Meet Interruptions(Level AAA)
Interruptions can be postponed or suppressed by the user, except interruptions involving
      an emergency.
   
Success Criterion 2.2.5 Re-authenticating
Understanding Re-authenticating | How to Meet Re-authenticating(Level AAA)
When an authenticated session expires, the user can continue the activity without
      loss of data after re-authenticating.
   
Success Criterion 2.2.6 Timeouts
Understanding Timeouts | How to Meet Timeouts(Level AAA)
Users are warned of the duration of any user inactivity that could cause data loss, unless the data is preserved for more than 20 hours when the user does not take any actions.
NotePrivacy regulations may require explicit user consent before user identification has been authenticated and before user data is preserved. In cases where the user is a minor, explicit consent may not be solicited in most jurisdictions, countries or regions. Consultation with privacy professionals and legal counsel is advised when considering data preservation as an approach to satisfy this success criterion.
Guideline 2.3 Seizures and Physical Reactions
Understanding Seizures and Physical Reactions | How to Meet Seizures and Physical ReactionsDo not design content in a way that is known to cause seizures or physical reactions.
Success Criterion 2.3.1 Three Flashes or Below Threshold
Understanding Three Flashes or Below Threshold | How to Meet Three Flashes or Below Threshold(Level A)
Web pages do not contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one second period,
      or the flash is below the general flash and red flash thresholds.
   
NoteSince any content that does not meet this success criterion can interfere with a user's
      ability to use the whole page, all content on the Web page (whether it is used to
      meet other success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference.
   
Success Criterion 2.3.2 Three Flashes
Understanding Three Flashes | How to Meet Three Flashes(Level AAA)
Web pages do not contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one second period.
   
Success Criterion 2.3.3 Animation from Interactions
Understanding Animation from Interactions | How to Meet Animation from Interactions(Level AAA)
Motion animation triggered by interaction can be disabled, unless the animation is essential to the functionality or the information being conveyed.
Guideline 2.4 Navigable
Understanding Navigable | How to Meet NavigableProvide ways to help users navigate, find content, and determine where they are.
Success Criterion 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks
Understanding Bypass Blocks | How to Meet Bypass Blocks(Level A)
A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple Web pages.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.2 Page Titled
Understanding Page Titled | How to Meet Page Titled(Level A)
Web pages have titles that describe topic or purpose.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.3 Focus Order
Understanding Focus Order | How to Meet Focus Order(Level A)
If a Web page can be navigated sequentially and the navigation sequences affect meaning or operation, focusable components receive
      focus in an order that preserves meaning and operability.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)
Understanding Link Purpose (In Context) | How to Meet Link Purpose (In Context)(Level A)
The purpose of each link can be determined from the link text alone or from the link text together with its
      programmatically determined link context, except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in general.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.5 Multiple Ways
Understanding Multiple Ways | How to Meet Multiple Ways(Level AA)
More than one way is available to locate a Web page within a set of Web pages except where the Web Page is the result of, or a step in, a process.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.6 Headings and Labels
Understanding Headings and Labels | How to Meet Headings and Labels(Level AA)
Headings and labels describe topic or purpose.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.7 Focus Visible
Understanding Focus Visible | How to Meet Focus Visible(Level AA)
Any keyboard operable user interface has a mode of operation where the keyboard focus
      indicator is visible.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.8 Location
Understanding Location | How to Meet Location(Level AAA)
Information about the user's location within a set of Web pages is available.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.9 Link Purpose (Link Only)
Understanding Link Purpose (Link Only) | How to Meet Link Purpose (Link Only)(Level AAA)
A mechanism is available to allow the purpose of each link to be identified from link text alone,
      except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in general.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.10 Section Headings
Understanding Section Headings | How to Meet Section Headings(Level AAA)
Section headings are used to organize the content.
   
Note"Heading" is used in its general sense and includes titles and other ways to add a
      heading to different types of content.
   
NoteThis success criterion covers sections within writing, not user interface components. User interface components are covered under Success Criterion 4.1.2.
   
Success Criterion 2.4.11 Focus Not Obscured (Minimum)
Understanding Focus Not Obscured (Minimum) | How to Meet Focus Not Obscured (Minimum)(Level AA)
[New]
When a user interface component receives keyboard focus, the component is not entirely hidden due to author-created content.
NoteWhere content in a configurable interface can be repositioned by the user, then only the initial positions of user-movable content are considered for testing and conformance of this Success Criterion.
NoteContent opened by the user may obscure the component receiving focus. If the user can reveal the focused component without advancing the keyboard focus, the component with focus is not considered hidden due to author-created content.
Success Criterion 2.4.12 Focus Not Obscured (Enhanced)
Understanding Focus Not Obscured (Enhanced) | How to Meet Focus Not Obscured (Enhanced)(Level AAA)
[New]
When a user interface component receives keyboard focus, no part of the component is hidden by author-created content.
Success Criterion 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
Understanding Focus Appearance | How to Meet Focus Appearance(Level AAA)
[New]
When the keyboard focus indicator is visible, an area of the focus indicator meets all the following:
is at least as large as the area of a 2 CSS pixel thick perimeter of the unfocused component or sub-component, and
has a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 between the same pixels in the focused and unfocused states.
Exceptions:
The focus indicator is determined by the user agent and cannot be adjusted by the author, or
The focus indicator and the indicator's background color are not modified by the author.
NoteWhat is perceived as the user interface component or sub-component (to determine enclosure or size) depends on its visual presentation. The visual presentation includes the component's visible content, border, and component-specific background. It does not include shadow and glow effects outside the component's content, background, or border.
NoteExamples of sub-components that may receive a focus indicator are menu items in an opened drop-down menu, or focusable cells in a grid.
NoteContrast calculations can be based on colors defined within the technology (such as HTML, CSS and SVG). Pixels modified by user agent resolution enhancements and anti-aliasing can be ignored.
Guideline 2.5 Input Modalities
Understanding Input Modalities | How to Meet Input ModalitiesMake it easier for users to operate functionality through various inputs beyond keyboard.
Success Criterion 2.5.1 Pointer Gestures
Understanding Pointer Gestures | How to Meet Pointer Gestures(Level A)
All functionality that uses multipoint or path-based gestures for operation can be operated with a single pointer without a path-based gesture, unless a multipoint or path-based gesture is essential.
NoteThis requirement applies to web content that interprets pointer actions (i.e. this does not apply to actions that are required to operate the user agent or assistive technology).
Success Criterion 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation
Understanding Pointer Cancellation | How to Meet Pointer Cancellation(Level A)
For functionality that can be operated using a single pointer, at least one of the following is true:
No Down-Event
The down-event of the pointer is not used to execute any part of the function;
Abort or Undo
Completion of the function is on the up-event, and a mechanism is available to abort the function before completion or to undo the function after completion;
Up Reversal
The up-event reverses any outcome of the preceding down-event;
Essential
Completing the function on the down-event is essential.
NoteFunctions that emulate a keyboard or numeric keypad key press are considered essential.
NoteThis requirement applies to web content that interprets pointer actions (i.e. this does not apply to actions that are required to operate the user agent or assistive technology).
Success Criterion 2.5.3 Label in Name
Understanding Label in Name | How to Meet Label in Name(Level A)
For user interface components with labels that include text or images of text, the name contains the text that is presented visually.
NoteA best practice is to have  the text of the label at the start of the name.
Success Criterion 2.5.4 Motion Actuation
Understanding Motion Actuation | How to Meet Motion Actuation(Level A)
Functionality that can be operated by device motion or user motion can also be operated by user interface components and responding to the motion can be disabled to prevent accidental actuation, except when:
Supported Interface
The motion is used to operate functionality through an accessibility supported interface;
Essential
The motion is essential for the function and doing so would invalidate the activity.
Success Criterion 2.5.5 Target Size (Enhanced)
Understanding Target Size (Enhanced) | How to Meet Target Size (Enhanced)(Level AAA)
The size of the target for pointer inputs is at least 44 by 44 CSS pixels except when:
Equivalent
The target is available through an equivalent link or control on the same page that is at least 44 by 44 CSS pixels;
Inline
The target is in a sentence or block of text;
User Agent Control
The size of the target is determined by the user agent and is not modified by the author;
Essential
A particular presentation of the target is essential to the information being conveyed.
Success Criterion 2.5.6 Concurrent Input Mechanisms
Understanding Concurrent Input Mechanisms | How to Meet Concurrent Input Mechanisms(Level AAA)
Web content does not restrict use of input modalities available on a platform except where the restriction is essential, required to ensure the security of the content, or required to respect user settings.
Success Criterion 2.5.7 Dragging Movements
Understanding Dragging Movements | How to Meet Dragging Movements(Level AA)
[New]
All functionality that uses a dragging movement for operation can be achieved by a single pointer without dragging, unless dragging is essential or the functionality is determined by the user agent and not modified by the author.
NoteThis requirement applies to web content that interprets pointer actions (i.e. this does not apply to actions that are required to operate the user agent or assistive technology).
Success Criterion 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
Understanding Target Size (Minimum) | How to Meet Target Size (Minimum)(Level AA)
[New]
The size of the target for pointer inputs is at least 24 by 24 CSS pixels, except where:
Spacing: Undersized targets (those less than 24 by 24 CSS pixels) are positioned so that if a 24 CSS pixel diameter circle is centered on the bounding box of each, the circles do not intersect another target or the circle for another undersized target;
Equivalent: The function can be achieved through a different control on the same page that meets this criterion;
Inline: The target is in a sentence or its size is otherwise constrained by the line-height of non-target text;
User agent control: The size of the target is determined by the user agent and is not modified by the author;
Essential: A particular presentation of the target is essential or is legally required for the information being conveyed.
NoteTargets that allow for values to be selected spatially based on position within the target are considered one target for the purpose of the success criterion. Examples include sliders, color pickers displaying a gradient of colors, or editable areas where you position the cursor.
NoteFor inline targets the line-height should be interpreted as perpendicular to the flow of text. For example, in a language displayed vertically, the line-height would be horizontal.
3.  Understandable 
Information and the operation of the user interface must be understandable.
Guideline 3.1 Readable
Understanding Readable | How to Meet ReadableMake text content readable and understandable.
Success Criterion 3.1.1 Language of Page
Understanding Language of Page | How to Meet Language of Page(Level A)
The default human language of each Web page can be programmatically determined.
   
Success Criterion 3.1.2 Language of Parts
Understanding Language of Parts | How to Meet Language of Parts(Level AA)
The human language of each passage or phrase in the content can be programmatically determined except for proper names, technical terms, words of indeterminate language, and words
      or phrases that have become part of the vernacular of the immediately surrounding
      text.
   
Success Criterion 3.1.3 Unusual Words
Understanding Unusual Words | How to Meet Unusual Words(Level AAA)
A mechanism is available for identifying specific definitions of words or phrases used in an unusual or restricted way, including idioms and jargon.
   
Success Criterion 3.1.4 Abbreviations
Understanding Abbreviations | How to Meet Abbreviations(Level AAA)
A mechanism for identifying the expanded form or meaning of abbreviations is available.
   
Success Criterion 3.1.5 Reading Level
Understanding Reading Level | How to Meet Reading Level(Level AAA)
When text requires reading ability more advanced than the lower secondary education level after removal of proper names and titles, supplemental content, or a version that does not require reading ability more advanced than the lower
      secondary education level, is available.
   
Success Criterion 3.1.6 Pronunciation
Understanding Pronunciation | How to Meet Pronunciation(Level AAA)
A mechanism is available for identifying specific pronunciation of words where meaning of the
      words, in context, is ambiguous without knowing the pronunciation.
   
Guideline 3.2 Predictable
Understanding Predictable | How to Meet PredictableMake Web pages appear and operate in predictable ways.
Success Criterion 3.2.1 On Focus
Understanding On Focus | How to Meet On Focus(Level A)
When any user interface component receives focus, it does not initiate a change of context.
   
Success Criterion 3.2.2 On Input
Understanding On Input | How to Meet On Input(Level A)
Changing the setting of any user interface component does not automatically cause a change of context unless the user has been advised of the behavior before using the component.
   
Success Criterion 3.2.3 Consistent Navigation
Understanding Consistent Navigation | How to Meet Consistent Navigation(Level AA)
Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on multiple Web pages within a set of Web pages occur in the same relative order each time they are repeated, unless a change is initiated by the user.
   
Success Criterion 3.2.4 Consistent Identification
Understanding Consistent Identification | How to Meet Consistent Identification(Level AA)
Components that have the same functionality within a set of Web pages are identified consistently.
   
Success Criterion 3.2.5 Change on Request
Understanding Change on Request | How to Meet Change on Request(Level AAA)
Changes of context are initiated only by user request or a mechanism is available to turn off such changes.
   
Success Criterion 3.2.6 Consistent Help
Understanding Consistent Help | How to Meet Consistent Help(Level A)
[New]
If a Web page contains any of the following help mechanisms, and those mechanisms are repeated on multiple Web pages within a set of Web pages, they occur in the same order relative to other page content, unless a change is initiated by the user:
Human contact details;
Human contact mechanism;
Self-help option;
A fully automated contact mechanism.
NoteHelp mechanisms may be provided directly on the page, or may be provided via a direct link to a different page containing the information.
NoteFor this Success Criterion, "the same order relative to other page content" can be thought of as how the content is ordered when the page is serialized. The visual position of a help mechanism is likely to be consistent across pages for the same page variation (e.g., CSS break-point). The user can initiate a change, such as changing the page's zoom or orientation, which may trigger a different page variation. This criterion is concerned with relative order across pages displayed in the same page variation (e.g., same zoom level and orientation).
Guideline 3.3 Input Assistance
Understanding Input Assistance | How to Meet Input AssistanceHelp users avoid and correct mistakes.
Success Criterion 3.3.1 Error Identification
Understanding Error Identification | How to Meet Error Identification(Level A)
If an input error is automatically detected, the item that is in error is identified and the error
      is described to the user in text.
   
Success Criterion 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions
Understanding Labels or Instructions | How to Meet Labels or Instructions(Level A)
Labels or instructions are provided when content requires user input.
   
Success Criterion 3.3.3 Error Suggestion
Understanding Error Suggestion | How to Meet Error Suggestion(Level AA)
If an input error is automatically detected and suggestions for correction are known, then the suggestions
      are provided to the user, unless it would jeopardize the security or purpose of the
      content.
   
Success Criterion 3.3.4 Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)
Understanding Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data) | How to Meet Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)(Level AA)
For Web pages that cause legal commitments or financial transactions for the user to occur, that modify or delete user-controllable data in data storage systems, or that submit user test responses, at least one of
      the following is true:
   
ReversibleSubmissions are reversible.
CheckedData entered by the user is checked for input errors and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.
ConfirmedA mechanism is available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information before finalizing the submission.
Success Criterion 3.3.5 Help
Understanding Help | How to Meet Help(Level AAA)
Context-sensitive help is available.
   
Success Criterion 3.3.6 Error Prevention (All)
Understanding Error Prevention (All) | How to Meet Error Prevention (All)(Level AAA)
For Web pages that require the user to submit information, at least one of the following is true:
   
ReversibleSubmissions are reversible.
CheckedData entered by the user is checked for input errors and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.
ConfirmedA mechanism is available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information before finalizing the submission.
Success Criterion 3.3.7 Redundant Entry
Understanding Redundant Entry | How to Meet Redundant Entry(Level A)
[New]
Information previously entered by or provided to the user that is required to be entered again in the same process is either:
auto-populated, or
available for the user to select.
Except when:
re-entering the information is essential,
the information is required to ensure the security of the content, or
previously entered information is no longer valid.
Success Criterion 3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum)
Understanding Accessible Authentication (Minimum) | How to Meet Accessible Authentication (Minimum)(Level AA)
[New]
A cognitive function test (such as remembering a password or solving a puzzle) is not required for any step in an authentication process unless that step provides at least one of the following:
Alternative
Another authentication method that does not rely on a cognitive function test.
Mechanism
A mechanism is available to assist the user in completing the cognitive function test.
Object Recognition
The cognitive function test is to recognize objects.
Personal Content
The cognitive function test is to identify non-text content the user provided to the Web site.
Note"Object recognition" and "Personal content" may be represented by images, video, or audio.
NoteExamples of mechanisms that satisfy this criterion include:
        
support for password entry by password managers to reduce memory need, and
copy and paste to reduce the cognitive burden of re-typing.
Success Criterion 3.3.9 Accessible Authentication (Enhanced)
Understanding Accessible Authentication (Enhanced) | How to Meet Accessible Authentication (Enhanced)(Level AAA)
[New]
A cognitive function test (such as remembering a password or solving a puzzle) is not required for any step in an authentication process unless that step provides at least one of the following:
Alternative
Another authentication method that does not rely on a cognitive function test.
Mechanism
A mechanism is available to assist the user in completing the cognitive function test.
4.  Robust 
Content must be robust enough that it can be interpreted by a wide variety of user agents, including assistive technologies.
Guideline 4.1 Compatible
Understanding Compatible | How to Meet CompatibleMaximize compatibility with current and future user agents, including assistive technologies.
Success Criterion 4.1.1 Parsing (Obsolete and removed)
Understanding Parsing (Obsolete and removed) | How to Meet Parsing (Obsolete and removed)NoteThis criterion was originally adopted to address problems that assistive technology had directly parsing HTML. Assistive technology no longer has any need to directly parse HTML. Consequently, these problems either no longer exist or are addressed by other criteria. This criterion no longer has utility and is removed.
Success Criterion 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
Understanding Name, Role, Value | How to Meet Name, Role, Value(Level A)
For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts),
      the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.
   
NoteThis success criterion is primarily for Web authors who develop or script their own
      user interface components. For example, standard HTML controls already meet this success
      criterion when used according to specification.
   
Success Criterion 4.1.3 Status Messages
Understanding Status Messages | How to Meet Status Messages(Level AA)
In content implemented using markup languages, status messages can be programmatically determined through role or properties such that they can be presented to the user by assistive technologies without receiving focus.
5. Conformance
This section lists requirements for conformance to WCAG 2.2. It also gives information about how to make conformance claims, which are optional. Finally, it describes what it means to be accessibility supported, since only accessibility-supported ways of using technologies can be relied upon for conformance. Understanding Conformance includes further explanation of the accessibility-supported concept.
5.1 Interpreting Normative Requirements
The main content of WCAG 2.2 is normative and defines requirements that impact conformance claims. Introductory material, appendices, sections marked as "non-normative", diagrams, examples, and notes are informative (non-normative). Non-normative material provides advisory information to help interpret the guidelines but does not create requirements that impact a conformance claim.
The key words MAY, MUST, MUST NOT, NOT RECOMMENDED, RECOMMENDED, SHOULD, and SHOULD NOT are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].
5.2 Conformance Requirements
In order for a Web page to conform to WCAG 2.2, all of the following conformance requirements must be satisfied:
5.2.1 Conformance Level
One of the following levels of conformance is met in full.
For Level A conformance (the minimum level of conformance), the Web page
satisfies all the Level A Success Criteria, or a conforming alternate version is provided.
For Level AA conformance, the Web page satisfies all the Level A and Level AA Success Criteria, or a Level AA conforming alternate version is provided.
For Level AAA conformance, the Web page satisfies all the Level A, Level AA and Level AAA Success Criteria, or a Level AAA conforming alternate version is provided.
NoteAlthough conformance can only be achieved at the stated levels, authors are encouraged to report (in their claim) any progress toward meeting success criteria from all levels beyond the achieved level of conformance.
NoteIt is not recommended that Level AAA conformance be required as a general policy for entire sites because it is not possible to satisfy all Level AAA Success Criteria for some content.
5.2.2 Full pages
Conformance (and conformance level) is for full Web page(s) only, and cannot be achieved if part of a Web page is excluded.
NoteFor the purpose of determining conformance, alternatives to part of a page's content are considered part of the page when the alternatives can be obtained directly from the page, e.g., a long description or an alternative presentation of a video.
NoteAuthors of Web pages that cannot conform due to content outside of the author's control may consider a Statement of Partial Conformance.
NoteA full page includes each variation of the page that is automatically presented by the page for various screen sizes (e.g. variations in a responsive Web page). Each of these variations needs to conform (or needs to have a conforming alternate version) in order for the entire page to conform.
5.2.3 Complete processes
When a Web page is one of a series of Web pages presenting a process (i.e., a sequence of steps that need to be completed in order to accomplish an activity), all Web pages in the process conform at the specified level or better. (Conformance is not possible at a particular level if any page in the process does not conform at that level or better.)
Example 1
An online store has a series of pages that are used to select and purchase products. All pages in the series from start to finish (checkout) conform in order for any page that is part of the process to conform.
5.2.4 Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of Using Technologies
Only accessibility-supported ways of using technologies are relied upon to satisfy the success criteria. Any information or functionality that is provided in a way that is not accessibility supported is also available in a way that is accessibility supported. (See Understanding accessibility support.)
5.2.5 Non-Interference
If  technologies  are used in a way that is not accessibility supported, or if they are used in a non-conforming way, then they do not block the ability of users to access the rest of the page. In addition, the Web page as a whole continues to meet the conformance requirements under each of the following conditions:
when any technology that is not relied upon is turned on in a user agent,
when any technology that is not relied upon is turned off in a user agent, and
when any technology that is not relied upon is not supported by a user agent
In addition, the following success criteria apply to all content on the page, including content that is not otherwise relied upon to meet conformance, because failure to meet them could interfere with any use of the page:
1.4.2 - Audio Control,
2.1.2 - No Keyboard Trap,
2.3.1 - Three Flashes or Below Threshold, and
2.2.2 - Pause, Stop, Hide.
NoteIf a page cannot conform (for example, a conformance test page or an example page), it cannot be included in the scope of conformance or in a conformance claim.
For more information, including examples, see Understanding Conformance Requirements.
5.3 Conformance Claims (Optional) 
Conformance is defined only for Web pages. However, a conformance claim may be made to cover one page, a series of pages, or multiple related Web pages.
5.3.1 Required Components of a Conformance Claim
Conformance claims are not required. Authors can conform to WCAG 2.2 without making a claim. However, if a conformance claim is made, then the conformance claim must include the following information:
Date of the claim
Guidelines title, version and URI  "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 at https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/"
Conformance level satisfied: (Level A, AA or AAA)
A concise description of the Web pages, such as a list of URIs for which the claim is made, including whether subdomains are included in the claim.
NoteThe Web pages may be described by list or by an expression that describes all of the URIs included in the claim.
NoteWeb-based products that do not have a URI prior to installation on the customer's Web site may have a statement that the product would conform when installed.
A list of the 
Web content technologies
relied upon.
NoteIf a conformance logo is used, it would constitute a claim and must be accompanied by the required components of a conformance claim listed above.
5.3.2 Optional Components of a Conformance Claim 
In addition to the required components of a conformance claim above, consider providing additional information to assist users. Recommended additional information includes:
A list of success criteria beyond the level of conformance claimed that have been met. This information should be provided in a form that users can use, preferably machine-readable metadata.
A list of the specific technologies that are " used but not relied upon."
A list of user agents, including assistive technologies that were used to test the content.
A list of specific accessibility characteristics of the content, provided in machine-readable metadata.
Information about any additional steps taken that go beyond the success criteria to enhance accessibility.
A machine-readable metadata version of the list of specific technologies that are relied upon.
A machine-readable metadata version of the conformance claim.
NoteRefer to Understanding Conformance Claims for more information and example conformance claims.
NoteRefer to Understanding Metadata for more information about the use of metadata in conformance claims.
5.4 Statement of Partial Conformance - Third Party Content
Web pages that will later have additional content added can use a 'statement of partial conformance'. For example, an email program, a blog, an article that allows users to add comments, or applications supporting user-contributed content. Another example would be a page, such as a portal or news site, composed of content aggregated from multiple contributors, or sites that automatically insert content from other sources over time, such as when advertisements are inserted dynamically.
In these cases, it is not possible to know at the time of original posting what the uncontrolled content of the pages will be. It is important to note that the uncontrolled content can affect the accessibility of the controlled content as well. Two options are available:
A determination of conformance can be made based on best knowledge. If a page of this type is monitored and repaired (non-conforming content is removed or brought into conformance) within two business days, then a determination or claim of conformance can be made since, except for errors in externally contributed content which are corrected or removed when encountered, the page conforms. No conformance claim can be made if it is not possible to monitor or correct non-conforming content;
OR
A "statement of partial conformance" may be made that the page does not conform, but could conform if certain parts were removed. The form of that statement would be, "This page does not conform, but would conform to WCAG 2.2 at level X if the following parts from uncontrolled sources were removed." In addition, the following would also be true of uncontrolled content that is described in the statement of partial conformance:
It is not content that is under the author's control.
It is described in a way that users can identify (e.g., they cannot be described as "all parts that we do not control" unless they are clearly marked as such.)
5.5 Statement of Partial Conformance - Language
A "statement of partial conformance due to language" may be made when the page does not conform, but would conform if accessibility support existed for (all of) the language(s) used on the page. The form of that statement would be, "This page does not conform, but would conform to WCAG 2.2 at level X if accessibility support existed for the following language(s):"
6. Glossary
abbreviation
shortened form of a word, phrase, or name where the abbreviation has not become part
      of the language
   
NoteThis includes initialisms and acronyms where:
initialisms are shortened forms of a name or phrase made from the initial letters of words or
            syllables contained in that name or phrase
         
NoteNot defined in all languages.
Example 2
SNCF is a French initialism that contains the initial letters of the Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer, the French national railroad.
         
Example 3
ESP is an initialism for extrasensory perception.
acronyms are abbreviated forms made from the initial letters or parts of other words (in a
            name or phrase) which may be pronounced as a word
         
Example 4
NOAA is an acronym made from the initial letters of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
            Administration in the United States.
         
NoteSome companies have adopted what used to be an initialism as their company name. In
      these cases, the new name of the company is the letters (for example, Ecma) and the
      word is no longer considered an abbreviation.
   
accessibility supported
supported by users' assistive technologies as well as the accessibility features in browsers and other user agents
To qualify as an accessibility-supported use of a Web content technology (or feature
      of a technology), both 1 and 2 must be satisfied for a Web content technology (or
      feature):
   
The way that the Web content technology is used must be supported by users' assistive technology (AT).  This means that the way that the technology is used has been tested for interoperability
            with users' assistive technology in the human language(s) of the content,
         
AND
The Web content technology must have accessibility-supported user agents that are
               available to users.  This means that at least one of the following four statements is true:
         
The technology is supported natively in widely-distributed user agents that are also
                  accessibility supported (such as HTML and CSS);
               
OR
The technology is supported in a widely-distributed plug-in that is also accessibility
                  supported;
               
OR
The content is available in a closed environment, such as a university or corporate
                  network, where the user agent required by the technology and used by the organization
                  is also accessibility supported;
               
OR
The user agent(s) that support the technology are accessibility supported and are
                  available for download or purchase in a way that:
               
does not cost a person with a disability any more than a person without a disability
                     and
is as easy to find and obtain for a person with a disability as it is for a person
                     without disabilities.
                  
NoteThe Accessibility Guidelines Working Group and the W3C do not specify which or how much support by assistive
      technologies there must be for a particular use of a Web technology in order for it
      to be classified as accessibility supported. (See Level of Assistive Technology Support Needed for "Accessibility Support".)
   
NoteWeb technologies can be used in ways that are not accessibility supported as long
      as they are not relied upon and the page as a whole meets the conformance requirements, including Conformance Requirement 4 and Conformance Requirement 5.
   
NoteWhen a Web Technology is used in a way that is "accessibility supported," it does not imply that the entire
      technology or all uses of the technology are supported. Most technologies, including
      HTML, lack support for at least one feature or use. Pages conform to WCAG only if
      the uses of the technology that are accessibility supported can be relied upon to
      meet WCAG requirements.
   
NoteWhen citing Web content technologies that have multiple versions, the version(s) supported
      should be specified.
   
NoteOne way for authors to locate uses of a technology that are accessibility supported
      would be to consult compilations of uses that are documented to be accessibility supported.
      (See Understanding Accessibility-Supported Web Technology Uses.) Authors, companies, technology vendors, or others may document accessibility-supported
      ways of using Web content technologies. However, all ways of using technologies in
      the documentation would need to meet the definition of accessibility-supported Web
      content technologies above.
   
alternative for time-based media
document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of time-based visual and
      auditory information and providing a means for achieving the outcomes of any time-based
      interaction
   
NoteA screenplay used to create the synchronized media content would meet this definition
      only if it was corrected to accurately represent the final synchronized media after
      editing.
   
ambiguous to users in general
the purpose cannot be determined from the link and all information of the Web page
      presented to the user simultaneously with the link (i.e., readers without disabilities
      would not know what a link would do until they activated it)
   
Example 5
The word guava in the following sentence "One of the notable exports is guava" is
      a link. The link could lead to a definition of guava, a chart listing the quantity
      of guava exported or a photograph of people harvesting guava. Until the link is activated,
      all readers are unsure and the person with a disability is not at any disadvantage.
   
ASCII art
picture created by a spatial arrangement of characters or glyphs (typically from the
      95 printable characters defined by ASCII)
   
assistive technology (as used in this document)
hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent, or along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet the requirements
      of users with disabilities that go beyond those offered by mainstream user agents
   
Notefunctionality provided by assistive technology includes alternative presentations
      (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified content), alternative input methods (e.g.,
      voice), additional navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
      (e.g., to make tables more accessible).
   
NoteAssistive technologies often communicate data and messages with mainstream user agents
      by using and monitoring APIs.
   
NoteThe distinction between mainstream user agents and assistive technologies is not absolute.
      Many mainstream user agents provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities.
      The basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and diverse audiences
      that usually include people with and without disabilities. Assistive technologies
      target narrowly defined populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
      provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate to the needs
      of its target users. The mainstream user agent may provide important functionality
      to assistive technologies like retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing
      markup into identifiable bundles.
   
Example 6
Assistive technologies that are important in the context of this document include
      the following:
   
screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which are used by people with
         visual, perceptual and physical print disabilities to change text font, size, spacing,
         color, synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual readability
         of rendered text and images;
      
screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read textual information
         through synthesized speech or braille;
      
text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with cognitive, language, and
         learning disabilities to convert text into synthetic speech;
      
speech recognition software, which may be used by people who have some physical disabilities;
alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities
         to simulate the keyboard (including alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single
         switches, sip/puff and other special input devices.);
      
alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with certain physical disabilities
         to simulate mouse pointing and button activations.
      
audio
the technology of sound reproduction
NoteAudio can be created synthetically (including speech synthesis), recorded from real
      world sounds, or both.
   
audio description
narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual details that cannot
      be understood from the main soundtrack alone
   
NoteAudio description of video provides information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen text, and
      other visual content.
   
NoteIn standard audio description, narration is added during existing pauses in dialogue.
      (See also extended audio description.)
   
NoteWhere all of the video information is already provided in existing audio, no additional audio description is necessary.
   
NoteAlso called "video description" and "descriptive narration."
audio-only
a time-based presentation that contains only audio (no video and no interaction)
   
blinking
switch back and forth between two visual states in a way that is meant to draw attention
NoteSee also flash. It is possible for something to be large enough and blink brightly enough at the
      right frequency to be also classified as a flash.
   
blocks of text
more than one sentence of text
CAPTCHA
initialism for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans
      Apart"
   
NoteCAPTCHA tests often involve asking the user to type in text that is displayed in an
      obscured image or audio file.
   
NoteA Turing test is any system of tests designed to differentiate a human from a computer.
      It is named after famed computer scientist Alan Turing. The term was coined by researchers
      at Carnegie Mellon University.
   
captions
synchronized visual and/or text alternative for both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand the media content
   
NoteCaptions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except captions convey not only the
      content of spoken dialogue, but also equivalents for non-dialogue audio information
      needed to understand the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
      speaker identification and location.
   
NoteClosed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and off with some players.
NoteOpen Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off. For example, if the captions
      are visual equivalent images of text embedded in video.
   
NoteCaptions should not obscure or obstruct relevant information in the video.
NoteIn some countries, captions are called subtitles.
NoteAudio descriptions can be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of information
      that is already presented visually.
   
changes of context
major changes that, if made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to view
      the entire page simultaneously
   
Changes in context include changes of:
user agent;
      
viewport;
      
focus;
content that changes the meaning of the Web page
NoteA change of content is not always a change of context. Changes in content, such as
      an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a tab control do not necessarily change the
      context, unless they also change one of the above (e.g., focus).
   
Example 7
Opening a new window, moving focus to a different component, going to a new page (including
      anything that would look to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly
      re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.
   
Cognitive function test
[New]
A task that requires the user to remember, manipulate, or transcribe information. Examples include, but are not limited to:
memorization, such as remembering a username, password, set of characters, images, or patterns. The common identifiers name, e-mail, and phone number are not considered cognitive function tests as they are personal to the user and consistent across Web sites;
transcription, such as typing in characters;
use of correct spelling;
performance of calculations;
solving of puzzles.
conformance
satisfying all the requirements of a given standard, guideline or specification
conforming alternate version
version that
conforms at the designated level, and
provides all of the same information and functionality in the same human language, and
      
is as up to date as the non-conforming content, and
for which at least one of the following is true:
the conforming version can be reached from the non-conforming page via an accessibility-supported
mechanism, or
            
the non-conforming version can only be reached from the conforming version, or
the non-conforming version can only be reached from a conforming page that also provides
               a mechanism to reach the conforming version
            
NoteIn this definition, "can only be reached" means that there is some mechanism, such
      as a conditional redirect, that prevents a user from "reaching" (loading) the non-conforming
      page unless the user had just come from the conforming version.
   
NoteThe alternate version does not need to be matched page for page with the original
      (e.g., the conforming alternate version may consist of multiple pages).
   
NoteIf multiple language versions are available, then conforming alternate versions are
      required for each language offered.
   
NoteAlternate versions may be provided to accommodate different technology environments
      or user groups. Each version should be as conformant as possible. One version would
      need to be fully conformant in order to meet conformance requirement 1.
   
NoteThe conforming alternative version does not need to reside within the scope of conformance,
      or even on the same Web site, as long as it is as freely available as the non-conforming
      version.
   
NoteAlternate versions should not be confused with supplementary content, which support the original page and enhance comprehension.
   
NoteSetting user preferences within the content to produce a conforming version is an
      acceptable mechanism for reaching another version as long as the method used to set
      the preferences is accessibility supported.
   
See Understanding Conforming Alternate Versions
content (Web content)
information and sensory experience to be communicated to the user by means of a user agent, including code or markup that defines the content's structure, presentation, and interactions
   
context-sensitive help
help text that provides information related to the function currently being performed
NoteClear labels can act as context-sensitive help.
contrast ratio
(L1 + 0.05) / (L2 + 0.05), where
L1 is the relative luminance of the lighter of the colors, and
      
L2 is the relative luminance of the darker of the colors.
      
NoteContrast ratios can range from 1 to 21 (commonly written 1:1 to 21:1).
NoteBecause authors do not have control over user settings as to how text is rendered
      (for example font smoothing or anti-aliasing), the contrast ratio for text can be
      evaluated with anti-aliasing turned off.
   
NoteFor the purpose of Success Criteria 1.4.3 and 1.4.6, contrast is measured with respect
      to the specified background over which the text is rendered in normal usage. If no
      background color is specified, then white is assumed.
   
NoteBackground color is the specified color of content over which the text is to be rendered
      in normal usage. It is a failure if no background color is specified when the text
      color is specified, because the user's default background color is unknown and cannot
      be evaluated for sufficient contrast. For the same reason, it is a failure if no text
      color is specified when a background color is specified.
   
NoteWhen there is a border around the letter, the border can add contrast and would be
      used in calculating the contrast between the letter and its background. A narrow border
      around the letter would be used as the letter. A wide border around the letter that
      fills in the inner details of the letters acts as a halo and would be considered background.
   
NoteWCAG conformance should be evaluated for color pairs specified in the content that
      an author would expect to appear adjacent in typical presentation. Authors need not
      consider unusual presentations, such as color changes made by the user agent, except
      where caused by authors' code.
   
correct reading sequence
any sequence where words and paragraphs are presented in an order that does not change
      the meaning of the content
   
CSS pixel
visual angle of about 0.0213 degrees
A CSS pixel is the canonical unit of measure for all lengths and measurements in CSS.
      This unit is density-independent, and distinct from actual hardware pixels present
      in a display. User agents and operating systems should ensure that a CSS pixel is
      set as closely as possible to the CSS Values and Units Module Level 3 reference pixel [css3-values], which takes into account the physical dimensions of the display
      and the assumed viewing distance (factors that cannot be determined by content authors).
   
down-event
platform event that occurs  when the trigger stimulus of a pointer is depressed
The down-event may have different names on different platforms, such as "touchstart" or "mousedown".
dragging movement
[New]
an operation where the pointer engages with an element on the down-event and the element (or a representation of its position) follows the pointer until an up-event
NoteExamples of draggable elements include list items, text elements, and images.
emergency
a sudden, unexpected situation or occurrence that requires immediate action to preserve
      health, safety, or property
   
essential
if removed, would fundamentally change the information or functionality of the content,
      and information and functionality cannot be achieved in another way that would conform
   
extended audio description
audio description that is added to an audiovisual presentation by pausing the video so that there is time to add additional description
   
NoteThis technique is only used when the sense of the video would be lost without the additional audio description and the pauses between dialogue/narration are too short.
   
flash
a pair of opposing changes in relative luminance that can cause seizures in some people if it is large enough and in the right frequency
      range
   
NoteSee general flash and red flash thresholds for information about types of flash that are not allowed.
   
NoteSee also blinking.
   
focus indicator
[New]
pixels that are changed to visually indicate when a user interface component is in a focused state
functionality
processes and outcomes achievable through user action
   
general flash and red flash thresholds
a flash or rapidly changing image sequence is below the threshold (i.e., content passes) if any of the following are true:
   
there are no more than three general flashes and / or no more than three red flashes within any one-second period; or
      
the combined area of flashes occurring concurrently occupies no more than a total
         of .006 steradians within any 10 degree visual field on the screen (25% of any 10
         degree visual field on the screen) at typical viewing distance
      
where:
A general flash is defined as a pair of opposing changes in relative luminance of 10% or more of the maximum relative luminance (1.0) where the relative luminance of
         the darker image is below 0.80; and where "a pair of opposing changes" is an increase
         followed by a decrease, or a decrease followed by an increase, and
      
A red flash is defined as any pair of opposing transitions involving a saturated red
      
Exception: Flashing that is a fine, balanced, pattern such as white noise or an alternating
      checkerboard pattern with "squares" smaller than 0.1 degree (of visual field at typical
      viewing distance) on a side does not violate the thresholds.
   
NoteFor general software or Web content, using a 341 x 256 pixel rectangle anywhere on the displayed screen area when the content is viewed at 1024 x 768 pixels will provide a good estimate of a 10 degree visual field for standard screen sizes and viewing distances (e.g., 15-17 inch screen at 22-26 inches). This resolution of 75 - 85 ppi is known to be lower, and thus more conservative than the nominal CSS pixel resolution of 96 ppi in CSS specifications. Higher resolutions displays showing the same rendering of the content yield smaller and safer images so it is lower resolutions that are used to define the thresholds.
   
NoteA transition is the change in relative luminance (or relative luminance/color for
      red flashing) between adjacent peaks and valleys in a plot of relative luminance (or
      relative luminance/color for red flashing) measurement against time. A flash consists
      of two opposing transitions.
   
NoteThe new working definition in the field for "pair of opposing transitions involving a saturated red" (from WCAG 2.2) is a pair of opposing transitions where, one transition is either to or from a state with a value R/(R + G + B) that is greater than or equal to 0.8, and the difference between states is more than 0.2 (unitless) in the CIE 1976 UCS chromaticity diagram. [ISO_9241-391] 
NoteTools are available that will carry out analysis from video screen capture. However,
      no tool is necessary to evaluate for this condition if flashing is less than or equal
      to 3 flashes in any one second. Content automatically passes (see #1 and #2 above).
   
human language
language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or tactile means) to communicate
      with humans
   
NoteSee also sign language.
   
idiom
phrase whose meaning cannot be deduced from the meaning of the individual words and
      the specific words cannot be changed without losing the meaning
   
Noteidioms cannot be translated directly, word for word, without losing their (cultural
      or language-dependent) meaning.
   
Example 8
In English, "spilling the beans" means "revealing a secret." However, "knocking over
      the beans" or "spilling the vegetables" does not mean the same thing.
   
Example 9
In Japanese, the phrase "さじを投げる" literally translates into "he throws a spoon," but it means that there is nothing
      he can do and finally he gives up.
   
Example 10
In Dutch, "Hij ging met de kippen op stok" literally translates into "He went to roost with the chickens," but it means that
      he went to bed early.
   
image of text
text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in order to achieve
      a particular visual effect
   
NoteThis does not include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.
   
Example 11
A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.
informative
for information purposes and not required for conformance
NoteContent required for conformance is referred to as "normative."
input error
information provided by the user that is not accepted
Note
This includes:
Information that is required by the Web page but omitted by the user
      
Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside the required data
         format or values
      
jargon
words used in a particular way by people in a particular field
Example 12
The word StickyKeys is jargon from the field of assistive technology/accessibility.
keyboard interface
interface used by software to obtain keystroke input
Note
A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke input to programs even if the
        native technology does not contain a keyboard.
Example 13
A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its operating system as well
        as a connector for external keyboards. Applications on the PDA can use the interface
        to obtain keyboard input either from an external keyboard or from other applications
        that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting interpreters or speech-to-text
        applications with "keyboard emulation" functionality.
NoteOperation of the application (or parts of the application) through a keyboard-operated
      mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does not qualify as operation through a keyboard
      interface because operation of the program is through its pointing device interface,
      not through its keyboard interface.
   
keyboard shortcut
alternative means of triggering an action by the pressing of one or more keys
label
text or other component with a text alternative that is presented to a user to identify a component within Web content
NoteA label is presented to all users whereas the name may be hidden and only exposed by assistive technology. In many (but not all) cases
      the name and the label are the same.
   
NoteThe term label is not limited to the label element in HTML.
large scale (text)
with at least 18 point or 14 point bold or font size that would yield equivalent size
      for Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK) fonts
   
NoteFonts with extraordinarily thin strokes or unusual features and characteristics that
      reduce the familiarity of their letter forms are harder to read, especially at lower
      contrast levels.
   
NoteFont size is the size when the content is delivered. It does not include resizing
      that may be done by a user.
   
NoteThe actual size of the character that a user sees is dependent both on the author-defined
      size and the user's display or user agent settings. For many mainstream body text
      fonts, 14 and 18 point is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to 120% or 150%
      of the default size for body text (assuming that the body font is 100%), but authors
      would need to check this for the particular fonts in use. When fonts are defined in
      relative units, the actual point size is calculated by the user agent for display.
      The point size should be obtained from the user agent, or calculated based on font
      metrics as the user agent does, when evaluating this success criterion. Users who
      have low vision would be responsible for choosing appropriate settings.
   
NoteWhen using text without specifying the font size, the smallest font size used on major
      browsers for unspecified text would be a reasonable size to assume for the font. If
      a level 1 heading is rendered in 14pt bold or higher on major browsers, then it would
      be reasonable to assume it is large text. Relative scaling can be calculated from
      the default sizes in a similar fashion.
   
NoteThe 18 and 14 point sizes for roman texts are taken from the minimum size for large
      print (14pt) and the larger standard font size (18pt). For other fonts such as CJK
      languages, the "equivalent" sizes would be the minimum large print size used for those
      languages and the next larger standard large print size.
   
legal commitments
transactions where the person incurs a legally binding obligation or benefit
Example 14
A marriage license, a stock trade (financial and legal), a will, a loan, adoption,
      signing up for the army, a contract of any type, etc.
   
link purpose
nature of the result obtained by activating a hyperlink
live
information captured from a real-world event and transmitted to the receiver with
      no more than a broadcast delay
   
NoteA broadcast delay is a short (usually automated) delay, for example used in order
      to give the broadcaster time to cue or censor the audio (or video) feed, but not sufficient
      to allow significant editing.
   
NoteIf information is completely computer generated, it is not live.
lower secondary education level
the two or three year period of education that begins after completion of six years
      of school and ends nine years after the beginning of primary education
NoteThis definition is based on the International Standard Classification of Education
      [UNESCO].
   
mechanism
process or technique for achieving a result
   
NoteThe mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content, or may be relied upon to be provided by either the platform or by user agents, including assistive technologies.
   
NoteThe mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the conformance level claimed.
media alternative for text
media that presents no more information than is already presented in text (directly
      or via text alternatives)
   
NoteA media alternative for text is provided for those who benefit from alternate representations
      of text. Media alternatives for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
      video), or audio-video.
   
motion animation
addition of steps between conditions to create the illusion of movement or to give a sense of a smooth transition
Example 15
For example, an element which moves into place or changes size while appearing is considered to be animated. An element which appears instantly without transitioning is not using animation. Motion animation does not include changes of color, blurring, or opacity which do not change the perceived size, shape, or position of the element.
minimum bounding box
[New]
the smallest enclosing rectangle aligned to the horizontal axis within which all the points of a shape lie. For components which wrap onto multiple lines as part of a sentence or block of text (such as hypertext links), the bounding box is based on how the component would appear on a single line.
name
text by which software can identify a component within Web content to the user
NoteThe name may be hidden and only exposed by assistive technology, whereas a label is presented to all users. In many (but not all) cases, the label and the name are
      the same.
   
NoteThis is unrelated to the name attribute in HTML.
navigated sequentially
navigated in the order defined for advancing focus (from one element to the next)
      using a keyboard interface
non-text content
any content that is not a sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined or where the sequence is not expressing something in human language
NoteThis includes ASCII Art (which is a pattern of characters), emoticons, leetspeak (which uses character substitution),
      and images representing text
   
normative
required for conformance
NoteOne may conform in a variety of well-defined ways to this document.
NoteContent identified as "informative" or "non-normative" is never required for conformance.
on a full-screen window
on the most common sized desktop/laptop display with the viewport maximized
NoteSince people generally keep their computers for several years, it is best not to rely
      on the latest desktop/laptop display resolutions but to consider the common desktop/laptop
      display resolutions over the course of several years when making this evaluation.
   
paused
stopped by user request and not resumed until requested by user
perimeter
[New]
continuous line forming the boundary of a shape not including shared pixels, or the minimum bounding box, whichever is shortest.
Example 16
The perimeter calculation for a 2 CSS pixel perimeter around a rectangle is 4h+4w, where h is the height and w is the width. For a 2 CSS pixel perimeter around a circle it is 4𝜋r.
pointer input
input from a device that can target a specific coordinate (or set of coordinates) on a screen,
      such as a mouse, pen, or touch contact
   
NoteSee the Pointer Events
      definition for "pointer" [pointerevents].
prerecorded
information that is not live
presentation
rendering of the content in a form to be perceived by users
   
primary education level
six year time period that begins between the ages of five and seven, possibly without
      any previous education
   
NoteThis definition is based on the International Standard Classification of Education
      [UNESCO].
   
process
series of user actions where each action is required in order to complete an activity
Example 17
Successful use of a series of Web pages on a shopping site requires users to view
      alternative products, prices and offers, select products, submit an order, provide
      shipping information and provide payment information.
   
Example 18
An account registration page requires successful completion of a Turing test before
      the registration form can be accessed.
   
programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)
determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way that different
      user agents, including assistive technologies, can extract and present this information to users in different modalities
   
Example 19
Determined in a markup language from elements and attributes that are accessed directly
      by commonly available assistive technology.
   
Example 20
Determined from technology-specific data structures in a non-markup language and exposed
      to assistive technology via an accessibility API that is supported by commonly available
      assistive technology.
      
programmatically determined link context
additional information that can be programmatically determined from relationships with a link, combined with the link text, and presented to users in different modalities
   
Example 21
In HTML, information that is programmatically determinable from a link in English
      includes text that is in the same paragraph, list, or table cell as the link or in
      a table header cell that is associated with the table cell that contains the link.
   
NoteSince screen readers interpret punctuation, they can also provide the context from
      the current sentence, when the focus is on a link in that sentence.
   
programmatically set
set by software using methods that are supported by user agents, including assistive
      technologies
   
pure decoration
serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and having no functionality
NoteText is only purely decorative if the words can be rearranged or substituted without
      changing their purpose.
   
Example 22
The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very light text in the background.
real-time event
event that a) occurs at the same time as the viewing and b) is not completely generated
      by the content
   
Example 23
A Webcast of a live performance (occurs at the same time as the viewing and is not
      prerecorded).
   
Example 24
An on-line auction with people bidding (occurs at the same time as the viewing).
Example 25
Live humans interacting in a virtual world using avatars (is not completely generated
      by the content and occurs at the same time as the viewing).
   
region
perceivable, programmatically determined section of content
NoteIn HTML, any area designated with a landmark role would be a region.
relationships
meaningful associations between distinct pieces of content
relative luminance
the relative brightness of any point in a colorspace, normalized to 0 for darkest
      black and 1 for lightest white
   
Note
For the sRGB colorspace, the relative luminance of a color is defined as L = 0.2126
      * R + 0.7152 * G + 0.0722 * B where R, G and B are defined as:
   
if RsRGB <= 0.04045 then R = RsRGB/12.92 else R = ((RsRGB+0.055)/1.055) ^ 2.4
      
if GsRGB <= 0.04045 then G = GsRGB/12.92 else G = ((GsRGB+0.055)/1.055) ^ 2.4
      
if BsRGB <= 0.04045 then B = BsRGB/12.92 else B = ((BsRGB+0.055)/1.055) ^ 2.4
      
and RsRGB, GsRGB, and BsRGB are defined as:
RsRGB = R8bit/255
GsRGB = G8bit/255
BsRGB = B8bit/255
The "^" character is the exponentiation operator. (Formula taken from 
      [SRGB].)
   
NoteBefore May 2021 the value of 0.04045 in the definition was different (0.03928). It was taken from an older version of the specification and has been updated. It has no practical effect on the calculations in the context of these guidelines.
NoteAlmost all systems used today to view Web content assume sRGB encoding. Unless it
      is known that another color space will be used to process and display the content,
      authors should evaluate using sRGB colorspace. If using other color spaces, see Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.3.
   
NoteIf dithering occurs after delivery, then the source color value is used. For colors
      that are dithered at the source, the average values of the colors that are dithered
      should be used (average R, average G, and average B).
   
NoteTools are available that automatically do the calculations when testing contrast and
      flash.
   
NoteA separate page giving the relative luminance definition using MathML to display the formulas is available.
   
relied upon (technologies that are)
the content would not conform if that technology is turned off or is not supported
   
role
text or number by which software can identify the function of a component within Web
      content
   
Example 26
A number that indicates whether an image functions as a hyperlink, command button,
      or check box.
   
same functionality
same result when used
Example 27
A submit "search" button on one Web page and a "find" button on another Web page may
      both have a field to enter a term and list topics in the Web site related to the term
      submitted. In this case, they would have the same functionality but would not be labeled
      consistently.
   
same relative order
same position relative to other items
NoteItems are considered to be in the same relative order even if other items are inserted
      or removed from the original order. For example, expanding navigation menus may insert
      an additional level of detail or a secondary navigation section may be inserted into
      the reading order.
   
satisfies a success criterion
the success criterion does not evaluate to 'false' when applied to the page
section
a self-contained portion of written content that deals with one or more related topics
      or thoughts
   
NoteA section may consist of one or more paragraphs and include graphics, tables, lists
      and sub-sections.
   
set of web pages
collection of web pages that share a common purpose and that are created by the same author, group or organization
   
Example 28
Examples include:
a publication which is split across multiple Web pages, where each page contains one chapter or other significant section of the work. The publication is logically a single contiguous unit, and contains navigation features that enable access to the full set of pages.
an e-commerce website shows products in a set of Web pages that all share the same navigation and identification. However, when progressing to the checkout process, the template changes; the navigation and other elements are removed, so the pages in that process are functionally and visually different. The checkout pages are not part of the set of product pages.
a blog on a sub-domain (e.g. blog.example.com) which has a different navigation and is authored by a distinct set of people from the pages on the primary domain (example.com).
NoteDifferent language versions would be considered different sets of Web pages.
sign language
a language using combinations of movements of the hands and arms, facial expressions,
      or body positions to convey meaning
   
sign language interpretation
translation of one language, generally a spoken language, into a sign language
NoteTrue sign languages are independent languages that are unrelated to the spoken language(s)
      of the same country or region.
   
single pointer
pointer input that operates with one point of contact with the screen, including single taps and clicks, double-taps and clicks, long presses, and path-based gestures
specific sensory experience
a sensory experience that is not purely decorative and does not primarily convey important
      information or perform a function
   
Example 29
Examples include a performance of a flute solo, works of visual art etc.
state
dynamic property expressing characteristics of a user interface component that may change in response to user action or automated processes
States do not affect the nature of the component, but represent data associated with the component or user interaction possibilities. Examples include focus, hover, select, press, check, visited/unvisited, and expand/collapse.
status message
change in content that is not a change of context, and that provides information to the user on the success or results of an action, on the waiting state of an application, on the progress of a process, or on the existence of errors
structure
The way the parts of a Web page are organized in relation to each other; and
      
The way a collection of Web pages is organized
      
style property
property whose value determines the presentation (e.g. font, color, size, location, padding, volume, synthesized speech prosody) of
 content elements as they are rendered (e.g. onscreen, via loudspeaker, via braille display) by user agents
Style properties can have several origins:
User agent default styles: The default style property values applied in the absence of any author or user styles. Some web content technologies specify a default rendering, others do not;
Author styles: Style property values that are set by the author as part of the content (e.g. in-line styles, author style
sheets);
User styles: Style property values that are set by the user (e.g. via user agent interface settings, user style sheets)
supplemental content
additional content that illustrates or clarifies the primary content
   
Example 30
An audio version of a Web page.
   
Example 31
An illustration of a complex process.
   
Example 32
A paragraph summarizing the major outcomes and recommendations made in a research
      study.
   
synchronized media
audio or video synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or with time-based
      interactive components, unless the media is a media alternative for text that is clearly labeled as such
   
target
region of the display that will accept a pointer action, such as the interactive area of a user interface component
NoteIf two or more targets are overlapping, the overlapping area should not be included in the measurement of the target size, except when the overlapping targets perform the same action or open the same page.
technology (Web content)
mechanism for encoding instructions to be rendered, played or executed by user agents
NoteAs used in these guidelines "Web Technology" and the word "technology" (when used
      alone) both refer to Web Content Technologies.
   
NoteWeb content technologies may include markup languages, data formats, or programming
      languages that authors may use alone or in combination to create end-user experiences
      that range from static Web pages to synchronized media presentations to dynamic Web
      applications.
   
Example 33
Some common examples of Web content technologies include HTML, CSS, SVG, PNG, PDF,
      Flash, and JavaScript.
   
text
sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined, where the sequence is expressing something in human language
text alternative
Text that is programmatically associated with non-text content or referred to from text that is programmatically associated with non-text content.
      Programmatically associated text is text whose location can be programmatically determined
      from the non-text content.
   
Example 34
An image of a chart is described in text in the paragraph after the chart. The short
      text alternative for the chart indicates that a description follows.
   
NoteRefer to Understanding Text Alternatives for more information.
   
up-event
platform event that occurs  when the trigger stimulus of a pointer is released
The up-event may have different names on different platforms, such as "touchend" or "mouseup".
used in an unusual or restricted way
words used in such a way that requires users to know exactly which definition to apply
      in order to understand the content correctly
   
Example 35
The term "gig" means something different if it occurs in a discussion of music concerts
      than it does in article about computer hard drive space, but the appropriate definition
      can be determined from context. By contrast, the word "text" is used in a very specific
      way in WCAG 2.1, so a definition is supplied in the glossary.
   
user agent
any software that retrieves and presents Web content for users
Example 36
Web browsers, media players, plug-ins, and other programs — including assistive technologies — that help in retrieving, rendering, and interacting with Web content.
   
user-controllable
data that is intended to be accessed by users
NoteThis does not refer to such things as Internet logs and search engine monitoring data.
Example 37
Name and address fields for a user's account.
user interface component
a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control for a distinct
      function
   
NoteMultiple user interface components may be implemented as a single programmatic element.
      "Components" here is not tied to programming techniques, but rather to what the user
      perceives as separate controls.
   
NoteUser interface components include form elements and links as well as components generated
      by scripts.
   
NoteWhat is meant by "component" or "user interface component" here is also sometimes
      called "user interface element".
   
Example 38
An applet has a "control" that can be used to move through content by line or page
      or random access. Since each of these would need to have a name and be settable independently,
      they would each be a "user interface component."
   
user inactivity
any continuous period of time where no user actions occur
The method of tracking will be determined by the web site or application.
video
the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images
NoteVideo can be made up of animated or photographic images, or both.
video-only
a time-based presentation that contains only video (no audio and no interaction)
   
viewport
object in which the user agent presents content
NoteThe user agent presents content through one or more viewports. Viewports include windows, frames,
      loudspeakers, and virtual magnifying glasses. A viewport may contain another viewport
      (e.g., nested frames). Interface components created by the user agent such as prompts,
      menus, and alerts are not viewports.
   
NoteThis definition is based on User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 Glossary [UAAG10].
   
visually customized
the font, size, color, and background can be set
Web page
a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus any other resources
      that are used in the rendering or intended to be rendered together with it by a user agent
NoteAlthough any "other resources" would be rendered together with the primary resource,
      they would not necessarily be rendered simultaneously with each other.
   
NoteFor the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a resource must be "non-embedded"
      within the scope of conformance to be considered a Web page.
   
Example 39
A Web resource including all embedded images and media.
Example 40
A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX). The program
      lives entirely at http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area
      and a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox, contacts, or calendar
      to display, but do not change the URI of the page as a whole.
   
Example 41
A customizable portal site, where users can choose content to display from a set of
      different content modules.
   
Example 42
When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your browser, you enter a movie-like
      interactive shopping environment where you visually move around in a store dragging
      products off of the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
      you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a specification sheet
      floating alongside. This might be a single-page Web site or just one page within a
      Web site.
   
7. Input Purposes for User Interface Components
This section contains a listing of common user interface component input purposes. The terms below are not keywords that must be used, but instead represent purposes that must be captured in the taxonomy adopted by a webpage. Where applicable, authors mark up controls with the chosen taxonomy to indicate the semantic purpose. This provides the potential for user agents and assistive technologies to apply personalized presentations that can enable more people to understand and use the content.
NoteThe list of input type purposes is based on the control purposes defined in the HTML specification's Autofill section, but it is important to understand that a different technology may have some or all of the same concepts defined in its specification and only the concepts that are mapped to the meanings below are required.
The following input control purposes are intended to relate to the user of the content and pertain only to information related to that individual.
name - Full name
honorific-prefix - Prefix or title (e.g., "Mr.", "Ms.", "Dr.", "Mlle")
given-name - Given name (in some Western cultures, also known as the first name)
additional-name - Additional names (in some Western cultures, also known as middle names, forenames other than the first name)
family-name - Family name (in some Western cultures, also known as the last name or surname)
honorific-suffix - Suffix (e.g., "Jr.", "B.Sc.", "MBASW", "II")
nickname - Nickname, screen name, handle: a typically short name used instead of the full name
organization-title - Job title (e.g., "Software Engineer", "Senior Vice President", "Deputy Managing Director")
username - A username
new-password - A new password (e.g., when creating an account or changing a password)
current-password - The current password for the account identified by the username field (e.g., when logging in)
organization - Company name corresponding to the person, address, or contact information in the other fields associated with this field
street-address - Street address (multiple lines, newlines preserved)
address-line1 - Street address (one line per field, line 1)
address-line2 - Street address (one line per field, line 2)
address-line3 - Street address (one line per field, line 3)
address-level4 - The most fine-grained administrative level, in addresses with four administrative levels
address-level3 - The third administrative level, in addresses with three or more administrative levels
address-level2 - The second administrative level, in addresses with two or more administrative levels; in the countries with two administrative levels, this would typically be the city, town, village, or other locality within which the relevant street address is found
address-level1 - The broadest administrative level in the address, i.e., the province within which the locality is found; for example, in the US, this would be the state; in Switzerland it would be the canton; in the UK, the post town
country - Country code
country-name - Country name
postal-code - Postal code, post code, ZIP code, CEDEX code (if CEDEX, append "CEDEX", and the dissement, if relevant, to the address-level2 field)
cc-name - Full name as given on the payment instrument
cc-given-name - Given name as given on the payment instrument (in some Western cultures, also known as the first name)
cc-additional-name - Additional names given on the payment instrument (in some Western cultures, also known as middle names, forenames other than the first name)
cc-family-name - Family name given on the payment instrument (in some Western cultures, also known as the last name or surname)
cc-number - Code identifying the payment instrument (e.g., the credit card number)
cc-exp - Expiration date of the payment instrument
cc-exp-month - Month component of the expiration date of the payment instrument
cc-exp-year - Year component of the expiration date of the payment instrument
cc-csc - Security code for the payment instrument (also known as the card security code (CSC), card validation code (CVC), card verification value (CVV), signature panel code (SPC), credit card ID (CCID), etc)
cc-type - Type of payment instrument
transaction-currency - The currency that the user would prefer the transaction to use
transaction-amount - The amount that the user would like for the transaction (e.g., when entering a bid or sale price)
language - Preferred language
bday - Birthday
bday-day - Day component of birthday
bday-month - Month component of birthday
bday-year - Year component of birthday
sex - Gender identity (e.g., Female, Fa’afafine)
url - Home page or other Web page corresponding to the company, person, address, or contact information in the other fields associated with this field
photo - Photograph, icon, or other image corresponding to the company, person, address, or contact information in the other fields associated with this field
tel - Full telephone number, including country code
tel-country-code - Country code component of the telephone number
tel-national - Telephone number without the country code component, with a country-internal prefix applied if applicable
tel-area-code - Area code component of the telephone number, with a country-internal prefix applied if applicable
tel-local - Telephone number without the country code and area code components
tel-local-prefix - First part of the component of the telephone number that follows the area code, when that component is split into two components
tel-local-suffix - Second part of the component of the telephone number that follows the area code, when that component is split into two components
tel-extension - Telephone number internal extension code
email - E-mail address
impp - URL representing an instant messaging protocol endpoint (for example, "aim:goim?screenname=example" or "xmpp:fred@example.net")
A. Change Log
This section shows substantive changes made in WCAG 2.2 since WCAG 2.1. Errata fixes to WCAG 2.1 have also been incorporated into WCAG 2.2.
The full commit history to WCAG 2.2 is available.
2019-11-10: Promoted Focus Visible from Level AA to Level A.
2020-01-14: Added Focus Visible (Enhanced), later renamed to Focus Appearance (Enhanced), later removed.
2020-03-10: Renamed Pointer Target Spacing to Target Size (Minimum)
2020-03-30: Added Accessible Authentication (Minimum).
2020-05-27: Added Dragging (later renamed Dragging Movements).
2020-07-19: Added Findable Help (later renamed to Consistent Help), Fixed Reference Points (Page Break Navigation), Hidden Controls (later renamed Visible Controls), Pointer Target Spacing (later renamed Target Size (Minimum)), Redundant Entry.
2020-08-04: Added Focus Appearance (Minimum) (later renamed to Focus Appearance) and renamed Focus Visible (Enhanced) to Focus Appearance (Enhanced).
2020-11-02: Renamed Dragging to Dragging Movements.
2020-12-08: Renamed Hidden Controls to Visible Controls.
2021-09-21: Added Accessible Authentication (No Exception).
2022-03-22: Added Focus Not Obscured (Minimum).
2022-05-13: Removed Visible Controls.
2022-05-30: Added Focus Not Obscured (Enhanced).
2022-07-15: Removed Page Break Navigation.
B. AcknowledgmentsThis section is non-normative.
Additional information about participation in the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) can be found on the Working Group home page.
B.1 Participants of the AG WG active in the development of this document:
Jake Abma (Invited Expert)
Shadi Abou-Zahra (W3C)
Chuck Adams (Oracle Corporation)
Amani Ali (Nomensa)
Jim Allan (Invited Expert)
Paul Adam (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Christopher Auclair (VitalSource | Ingram Content Group)
Jon Avila (Level Access)
Tom Babinszki (IBM Corporation)
Bruce Bailey (U.S. Access Board)
Renaldo Bernard (University of Southampton)
Chris Blouch (Level Access)
Denis Boudreau (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Judy Brewer (W3C)
Shari Butler (Pearson plc)
Thaddeus Cambron (Invited Expert)
Alastair Campbell (Nomensa)
Laura Carlson (Invited Expert)
Sukriti Chadha (Invited Expert)
Louis Cheng (Google)
Pietro Cirrincione (Invited Expert)
Vivienne Conway (Web Key IT Pty Ltd)
Michael Cooper (W3C)
Jennifer Delisi (Invited Expert)
Romain Deltour (DAISY Consortium)
Wayne Dick (Knowbility, Inc)
Chaohai Ding (University of Southampton)
Kim Dirks (Thomson Reuters)
Shwetank Dixit (BarrierBreak Technologies)
Anthony Doran (TextHelp)
E.A. Draffan (University of Southampton)
Eric Eggert (W3C)
Michael Elledge (Invited Expert)
David Fazio (Invited Expert)
Wilco Fiers (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Detlev Fischer (Invited Expert)
John Foliot (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Matt Garrish (DAISY Consortium)
Alistair Garrison (Level Access)
Michael Gower (IBM Corporation)
Jon Gunderson
Markku Hakkinen (Educational Testing Service)
Charles Hall (Invited Expert)
Katie Haritos-Shea (Knowbility, Inc)
Andy Heath (Invited Expert)
Shawn Henry (W3C)
Thomas Hoffman (Educational Testing Service)
Sarah Horton (The Paciello Group, LLC)
Stefan Johansson (Invited Expert)
Marc Johlic (IBM Corporation)
Rick Johnson (VitalSource | Ingram Content Group)
Crystal Jones (Microsoft Corporation)
Andrew Kirkpatrick (Adobe)
John Kirkwood (Invited Expert)
Jason Kiss (Department of Internal Affairs, New Zealand Government)
Maureen Kraft (IBM Corporation)
JaEun Ku (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)
Patrick Lauke (TetraLogical)
Shawn Lauriat (Google, Inc.)
Steve Lee (Invited Expert)
Alex Li (Microsoft Corporation)
Chris Loiselle (Invited Expert)
Greg Lowney (Invited Expert)
Adam Lund (Thomson Reuters)
David MacDonald (Invited Expert)
Erich Manser (IBM Corporation)
Kurt Mattes (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Scott McCormack (Level Access)
Chris McMeeking (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Jan McSorley (Pearson plc)
Neil Milliken (Unify Software and Solutions)
Rachael Montgomery (Invited Expert)
Mary Jo Mueller (IBM Corporation)
Brooks Newton (Thomson Reuters)
James Nurthen (Oracle Corporation)
Joshue O Connor (Invited Expert)
Sailesh Panchang (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Charu Pandhi (IBM Corporation)
Kim Patch (Invited Expert)
Melanie Philipp (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Mike Pluke (Invited Expert)
Ian Pouncey (TetraLogical)
Ruoxi Ran (W3C)
Stephen Repsher (Invited Expert)
Jan Richards (Invited Expert)
John Rochford (Invited Expert)
Marla Runyan (Invited Expert)
Stefan Schnabel (SAP SE)
Ayelet Seeman (Invited Expert)
Lisa Seeman-Kestenbaum (Invited Expert)
Glenda Sims (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Avneesh Singh (DAISY Consortium)
David Sloan (The Paciello Group, LLC)
Alan Smith (Invited Expert)
Jim Smith (Unify Software and Solutions)
Andrew Somers (Invited Expert)
Adam Solomon (Invited Expert)
Jaeil Song (National Information Society Agency (NIA))
Jeanne Spellman (TetraLogical)
Makoto Ueki (Invited Expert)
Jatin Vaishnav (Deque Systems, Inc.)
Gregg Vanderheiden (Raising the Floor)
Evangelos Vlachogiannis (Fraunhofer Gesellschaft)
Kathleen Wahlbin (Invited Expert)
Can Wang (Zhejiang University)
Léonie Watson (TetraLogical)
Jason White (Educational Testing Service)
Mark Wilcock (Unify Software and Solutions)
B.2 Other previously active WCAG WG participants and other contributors to WCAG 2.0, WCAG 2.1, or supporting resources 
Paul Adam, Jenae Andershonis, Wilhelm Joys Andersen, Andrew Arch, Avi Arditti, Aries Arditi, Mark Barratt, Mike Barta, Sandy Bartell, Kynn Bartlett, Chris Beer, Charles Belov, Marco Bertoni, Harvey Bingham, Chris Blouch, Paul Bohman, Frederick Boland, Denis Boudreau, Patrice Bourlon, Andy Brown, Dick Brown, Doyle Burnett, Raven Calais, Ben Caldwell, Tomas Caspers, Roberto Castaldo, Sofia Celic-Li, Sambhavi Chandrashekar, Mike Cherim, Jonathan Chetwynd, Wendy Chisholm, Alan Chuter, David M Clark, Joe Clark, Darcy Clarke, James Coltham, Earl Cousins, James Craig, Tom Croucher, Pierce Crowell, Nir Dagan, Daniel Dardailler, Geoff Deering, Sébastien Delorme, Pete DeVasto, Iyad Abu Doush, Sylvie Duchateau, Cherie Eckholm, Roberto Ellero, Don Evans, Gavin Evans, Neal Ewers, Steve Faulkner, Bengt Farre, Lainey Feingold, Wilco Fiers, Michel Fitos, Alan J. Flavell, Nikolaos Floratos, Kentarou Fukuda, Miguel Garcia, P.J. Gardner, Alistair Garrison, Greg Gay, Becky Gibson, Al Gilman, Kerstin Goldsmith, Michael Grade, Karl Groves, Loretta Guarino Reid, Jon Gunderson, Emmanuelle Gutiérrez y Restrepo, Brian Hardy, Eric Hansen, Benjamin Hawkes-Lewis, Sean Hayes, Shawn Henry, Hans Hillen, Donovan Hipke, Bjoern Hoehrmann, Allen Hoffman, Chris Hofstader, Yvette Hoitink, Martijn Houtepen, Carlos Iglesias, Richard Ishida, Jonas Jacek, Ian Jacobs, Phill Jenkins, Barry Johnson, Duff Johnson, Jyotsna Kaki, Shilpi Kapoor, Leonard R. Kasday, Kazuhito Kidachi, Ken Kipness, Johannes Koch, Marja-Riitta Koivunen, Preety Kumar, Kristjan Kure, Andrew LaHart, Gez Lemon, Chuck Letourneau, Aurélien Levy, Harry Loots, Scott Luebking, Tim Lacy, Jim Ley, Alex Li, William Loughborough, N Maffeo, Mark Magennis, Kapsi Maria, Luca Mascaro, Matt May, Sheena McCullagh, Liam McGee, Jens Oliver Meiert, Niqui Merret, Jonathan Metz, Alessandro Miele, Steven Miller, Mathew J Mirabella, Matt May, Marti McCuller, Sorcha Moore, Charles F. Munat, Robert Neff, Charles Nevile, Liddy Nevile, Dylan Nicholson, Bruno von Niman, Tim Noonan, Sebastiano Nutarelli, Graham Oliver, Sean B. Palmer, Devarshi Pant, Nigel Peck, Anne Pemberton, David Poehlman, Ian Pouncey, Charles Pritchard, Kerstin Probiesch, W Reagan, Adam Victor Reed, Chris Reeve, Chris Ridpath, Lee Roberts, Mark Rogers, Raph de Rooij, Gregory J. Rosmaita, Matthew Ross, Sharron Rush, Joel Sanda, Janina Sajka, Roberto Scano, Gordon Schantz, Tim van Schie, Wolf Schmidt, Stefan Schnabel, Cynthia Shelly, Glenda Sims, John Slatin, Becky Smith, Jared Smith, Andi Snow-Weaver, Neil Soiffer, Mike Squillace, Michael Stenitzer, Diane Stottlemyer, Christophe Strobbe, Sarah J Swierenga, Jim Thatcher, Terry Thompson, Justin Thorp, David Todd, Mary Utt, Jean Vanderdonckt, Carlos A Velasco, Eric Velleman, Gijs Veyfeyken, Dena Wainwright, Paul Walsch, Daman Wandke, Richard Warren, Elle Waters, Takayuki Watanabe, Gian Wild, David Wooley, Wu Wei, Kenny Zhang, Leona Zumbo.
B.3 Enabling funders
This publication has been funded in part with U.S. Federal funds from the Health and Human Services, National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR), initially under contract number ED-OSE-10-C-0067, then under contract number HHSP23301500054C, and now under HHS75P00120P00168. The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services or the U.S. Department of Education, nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.
C. ReferencesC.1 Normative references
[css3-values]
CSS Values and Units Module Level 3. Tab Atkins Jr.; Elika Etemad.  W3C. 1 December 2022. W3C Candidate Recommendation. URL: https://www.w3.org/TR/css-values-3/
[pointerevents]
Pointer Events. Jacob Rossi; Matt Brubeck.  W3C. 4 April 2019. W3C Recommendation. URL: https://www.w3.org/TR/pointerevents/
C.2 Informative references
[ISO_9241-391]
Ergonomics of human-system interaction—Part 391: Requirements, analysis and compliance test methods for the reduction of photosensitive seizures.  International Standards Organization. URL: https://www.iso.org/standard/56350.html
[RFC2119]
Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels. S. Bradner.  IETF. March 1997. Best Current Practice. URL: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119
[SRGB]
Multimedia systems and equipment - Colour measurement and management - Part 2-1: Colour management - Default RGB colour space - sRGB.  IEC. URL: https://webstore.iec.ch/publication/6169
[UAAG10]
User Agent Accessibility Guidelines 1.0. Ian Jacobs; Jon Gunderson; Eric Hansen.  W3C. 17 December 2002. W3C Recommendation. URL: https://www.w3.org/TR/UAAG10/
[UNESCO]
International Standard Classification of Education. 2011. URL: https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000219109
[WAI-WEBCONTENT]
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0. Wendy Chisholm; Gregg Vanderheiden; Ian Jacobs.  W3C. 5 May 1999. W3C Recommendation. URL: https://www.w3.org/TR/WAI-WEBCONTENT/
[WCAG20]
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0. Ben Caldwell; Michael Cooper; Loretta Guarino Reid; Gregg Vanderheiden et al.  W3C. 11 December 2008. W3C Recommendation. URL: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/
[WCAG21]
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1. Andrew Kirkpatrick; Joshue O'Connor; Alastair Campbell; Michael Cooper.  W3C. 5 June 2018. W3C Recommendation. URL: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/
↑
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.1.4 Abbreviations
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.4 Motion Actuation
§ 5. Conformance
§ 5.2.4 Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of Using Technologies
§ 5.2.5 Non-Interference
§ 5.5 Statement of Partial Conformance - Language
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.8 Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.9 Audio-only (Live)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)
§ 2.4.9 Link Purpose (Link Only)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
§ 1.4.4 Resize Text
§ 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
§ 4.1.3 Status Messages
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.4 Captions (Live)
§ 1.2.6 Sign Language (Prerecorded)
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 6. Glossary (2)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.9 Audio-only (Live)
§ 1.4.7 Low or No Background Audio
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.8 Visual Presentation
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
§ 1.4.7 Low or No Background Audio
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.4 Captions (Live)
§ 1.4.4 Resize Text
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.2.1 On Focus
§ 3.2.2 On Input
§ 3.2.5 Change on Request
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum)
§ 3.3.9 Accessible Authentication (Enhanced)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 5. Conformance
§ 5.2.2 Full pages
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 5.2.1 Conformance Level
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.3.5 Help
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
§ 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
§ 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.10 Reflow (2)
§ 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
§ 2.5.5 Target Size (Enhanced)
§ 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.7 Dragging Movements
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.2.4 Interruptions
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.4 Orientation
§ 1.4.5 Images of Text
§ 1.4.9 Images of Text (No Exception)
§ 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast
§ 2.2.1 Timing Adjustable
§ 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide
§ 2.2.3 No Timing
§ 2.3.3 Animation from Interactions
§ 2.5.1 Pointer Gestures
§ 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation
§ 2.5.4 Motion Actuation
§ 2.5.5 Target Size (Enhanced)
§ 2.5.6 Concurrent Input Mechanisms
§ 2.5.7 Dragging Movements
§ 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
§ 3.3.7 Redundant Entry
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.3.1 Three Flashes or Below Threshold
§ 2.3.2 Three Flashes
§ 6. Glossary (2)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.1.1 Keyboard
§ 2.1.3 Keyboard (No Exception)
§ 2.5.1 Pointer Gestures
§ 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation
§ 2.5.4 Motion Actuation
§ 2.5.7 Dragging Movements
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.3.1 Three Flashes or Below Threshold
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.1.1 Language of Page
§ 3.1.2 Language of Parts
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.1.3 Unusual Words
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
§ 1.4.4 Resize Text
§ 1.4.5 Images of Text
§ 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
§ 1.4.9 Images of Text (No Exception)
§ 2.5.3 Label in Name
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 5.1 Interpreting Normative Requirements
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.13 Content on Hover or Focus
§ 3.3.1 Error Identification
§ 3.3.3 Error Suggestion
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.1.3 Unusual Words
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.1.1 Keyboard
§ 2.1.2 No Keyboard Trap
§ 2.1.3 Keyboard (No Exception)
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.1.4 Character Key Shortcuts
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.6 Headings and Labels
§ 2.5.3 Label in Name
§ 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
§ 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.3.4 Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.4 Captions (Live)
§ 1.2.9 Audio-only (Live)
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.1.5 Reading Level
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.2 Audio Control
§ 1.4.8 Visual Presentation
§ 1.4.13 Content on Hover or Focus
§ 2.1.4 Character Key Shortcuts
§ 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks
§ 2.4.9 Link Purpose (Link Only)
§ 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation
§ 3.1.3 Unusual Words
§ 3.1.4 Abbreviations
§ 3.1.6 Pronunciation
§ 3.2.5 Change on Request
§ 3.2.6 Consistent Help
§ 3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum)
§ 3.3.9 Accessible Authentication (Enhanced)
§ 6. Glossary (2)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.3.3 Animation from Interactions
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
§ 2.5.3 Label in Name
§ 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.3 Focus Order
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
§ 3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum)
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 5.1 Interpreting Normative Requirements
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.8 Visual Presentation
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.2.2 Pause, Stop, Hide
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.5 Target Size (Enhanced)
§ 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.6 Sign Language (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.8 Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 1.4.7 Low or No Background Audio
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
§ 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast
§ 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
§ 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.5 Multiple Ways
§ 3.3.7 Redundant Entry
§ 3.3.8 Accessible Authentication (Minimum)
§ 3.3.9 Accessible Authentication (Enhanced)
§ 5.2.3 Complete processes
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
§ 1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence
§ 1.3.5 Identify Input Purpose
§ 1.3.6 Identify Purpose
§ 3.1.1 Language of Page
§ 3.1.2 Language of Parts
§ 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
§ 4.1.3 Status Messages
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
§ 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
§ 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
§ 1.4.9 Images of Text (No Exception)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.2.3 No Timing
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.6 Identify Purpose
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 5. Conformance
§ 5.2.4 Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of Using Technologies
§ 5.2.5 Non-Interference
§ 5.3.1 Required Components of a Conformance Claim
§ 5.3.2 Optional Components of a Conformance Claim (2)
§ 6. Glossary (2)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
§ 4.1.3 Status Messages
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.2.4 Consistent Identification
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.2.3 Consistent Navigation
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 5.2.1 Conformance Level
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.10 Section Headings
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.5 Multiple Ways
§ 2.4.8 Location
§ 3.2.3 Consistent Navigation
§ 3.2.4 Consistent Identification
§ 3.2.6 Consistent Help
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 6. Glossary (2)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.6 Sign Language (Prerecorded)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.1 Pointer Gestures
§ 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation
§ 2.5.7 Dragging Movements
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 4.1.3 Status Messages
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.12 Text Spacing
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.1.5 Reading Level
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.4 Captions (Live)
§ 1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.6 Sign Language (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.8 Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 2.2.3 No Timing
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.5 Target Size (Enhanced)
§ 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
§ 5.2.4 Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of Using Technologies
§ 5.2.5 Non-Interference
§ 5.3.1 Required Components of a Conformance Claim
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
§ 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
§ 1.4.4 Resize Text
§ 1.4.5 Images of Text
§ 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
§ 1.4.9 Images of Text (No Exception)
§ 1.4.12 Text Spacing
§ 2.5.3 Label in Name
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.1.1 Non-text Content
§ 6. Glossary (2)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.5.2 Pointer Cancellation
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.1.3 Unusual Words
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.4.13 Focus Appearance
§ 2.5.7 Dragging Movements
§ 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum)
§ 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 3.3.4 Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.3.6 Identify Purpose
§ 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum)
§ 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
§ 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast
§ 2.1.4 Character Key Shortcuts
§ 2.4.10 Section Headings
§ 2.4.11 Focus Not Obscured (Minimum)
§ 2.4.12 Focus Not Obscured (Enhanced)
§ 2.5.3 Label in Name
§ 2.5.4 Motion Actuation
§ 3.2.1 On Focus
§ 3.2.2 On Input
§ 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
§ 6. Glossary
§ 7. Input Purposes for User Interface Components
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.2.6 Timeouts
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)
§ 1.2.8 Media Alternative (Prerecorded)
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 6. Glossary
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 1.4.5 Images of Text
Permalink
Referenced in:
§ 2.3.1 Three Flashes or Below Threshold
§ 2.3.2 Three Flashes
§ 2.4.1 Bypass Blocks
§ 2.4.2 Page Titled
§ 2.4.3 Focus Order
§ 2.4.5 Multiple Ways
§ 3.1.1 Language of Page
§ 3.2.3 Consistent Navigation
§ 3.2.6 Consistent Help
§ 3.3.4 Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)
§ 3.3.6 Error Prevention (All)
§ 5.2.1 Conformance Level
§ 5.2.2 Full pages
§ 5.2.3 Complete processes
§ 5.2.5 Non-Interference
§ 5.3 Conformance Claims (Optional)
§ 6. Glossary (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)