Support Wikipedia – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
Support WikipediaYour donation protects the human right to free and open knowledge for everyone.Donate nowWikipedia is a free and open encyclopedia, hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation. The heart and soul of Wikipedia is our global community of over 295,000+ volunteer contributors, billions of readers, and donors like yourself – all united to share unlimited access to reliable information. Your donations keep our knowledge projects like Wikipedia freely available to everyone. Please help us keep Wikipedia growing.
How does Wikipedia work?
Do you ever wonder how Wikipedia, the free online encyclopedia anyone can edit, really works? Or even, who are the people who edit and improve it? This video, which is part of our A Wiki Minute series, will help!
Where your donations goTransparency is core to the Wikimedia Foundation’s mission. Learn about how donations were spent last year to keep websites like Wikipedia thriving.How we use your donations
Support from around the globeDonors from around the world support over 300 Wikipedias, represent more than 30 countries and more than 20 languages. Every country is different and we provide a variety of methods to make donations.Ways you can give
Leave a legacyCreate a legacy that empowers free and equal access to the world’s knowledge. Make a future donation through your will or other estate plans.Ensure the future of free knowledge
Our benefactorsWe are grateful to the generous benefactors who have made significant donations. Large gifts ensure that Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects have support for years to come.Celebrating our benefactors
Tax deductibilityAs a 501(c)(3) nonprofit public charity, the Wikimedia Foundation may receive tax-deductible donations in the United States. Learn more about tax deductibility in other countries.More information about tax deductibility
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
1 of the top
most-visited websites in the world and entirely funded by your donations. No ads. No paywalls.
Tweet this
4 stars
received from Charity Navigator, their highest rating
Tweet this
295,000+
volunteers contribute to Wikipedia every month
Tweet this
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
 
 
First grants announced from the Wikimedia Endowment to support technical innovation across Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects
Abstract Wikipedia Endowment Grants Wikidata Wikifunctions 
The Wikimedia Endowment, the long-term fund established in 2016 to support the future of Wikimedia sites, has announced its first recipients of grant funding. The initiatives that will receive grant funding include Abstract Wikipedia, Kiwix, Machine Learning, and Wikidata.
13 April 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Wikimedia Enterprise announces Google and Internet Archive as its first customers; allows new customers to self sign-up for free trials
Press Release Wikimedia Enterprise 
Wikimedia Enterprise announced its first customers: multinational technology company Google and nonprofit digital library Internet Archive. Wikimedia Enterprise was recently launched by the Wikimedia Foundation as an opt-in product.
21 June 2022
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
More about giving to the Wikimedia Foundation
The Wikipedia StoreThank a volunteer. We use proceeds from the store to send thank you gifts to the volunteers who make Wikipedia possible.
Wikimedia EndowmentEndowment gifts help us preserve, build, and ensure the future of free knowledge for future generations.
Photo credits
 
A teacher trying Kiwix
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Kunokuno
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Piran_Portorož_Tunnel_Valetta-8031
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Isiwal
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Marv edits Wikipedia at WikiDemocracy_Event_May_2017_31
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Zack McCune/Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 4.0
How does Wikipedia work – A WIKI MINUTE
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Wikimedia Foundation
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
New Readers research Nigeria
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Zachary McCune
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wall of Love, Paris 21 October 2017
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Tom Hilton
CC BY 2.0
 
Amanhecer no Hercules
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Carlos Perez Couto
CC BY-SA 3.0
 
Elecampane (Inula). Love for life
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Svklimkin
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Wikimedia Conference 2016 – Group photo
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jason Krüger for Wikimedia Deutschland e.V.
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.