Effect of bilingualism on cognitive control in the Simon task: evidence from MEG
  
    
    
    
    
      
  Effect of bilingualism on cognitive control in the Simon task: evidence from MEG
    
  
Neuroimage. 2005 Jan 1;24(1):40-9.
        doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2004.09.044.
      
            Authors
          
Ellen Bialystok 
                1
              , Fergus I M Craik, Cheryl Grady, Wilkin Chau, Ryouhei Ishii, Atsuko Gunji, Christo Pantev
            Affiliation
          
1 Department of Psychology, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada. ellenb@yorku.ca
    
      PMID:
    
  
      15588595
    
    
      DOI:
    
  
      10.1016/j.neuroimage.2004.09.044
    
        Abstract
        
      
      
      The present study used magneto-encephalography (MEG) to determine the neural correlates of the bilingual advantage previously reported for behavioral measures in conflict tasks. Bilingual Cantonese-English, bilingual French-English, and monolingual English speakers, performed the Simon task in the MEG. Reaction times were faster for congruent than for incongruent trials, and the Cantonese group was faster than the other two groups, which did not differ from each other. Analyses of the MEG data using synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM) and partial last squares (PLS) showed that the same pattern of activity, involving signal changes in left and medial prefrontal areas, characterized all three groups. Correlations between activated regions and reaction times, however, showed that the two bilingual groups demonstrated faster reaction times with greater activity in superior and middle temporal, cingulate, and superior and inferior frontal regions, largely in the left hemisphere. The monolinguals demonstrated faster reaction times with activation in middle frontal regions. The interpretation is that the management of two language systems led to systematic changes in frontal executive functions.
    
        Publication types
      
                
                  
  Comparative Study
                
              
                
                  
  Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
                
              
        MeSH terms
      
                  
                    
  Adult
                  
                
                  
                    
  Attention / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Brain Mapping
                  
                
                  
                    
  Cerebral Cortex / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Color Perception / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Conflict, Psychological*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Discrimination Learning / physiology
                  
                
                  
                    
  Dominance, Cerebral / physiology
                  
                
                  
                    
  Female
                  
                
                  
                    
  Gyrus Cinguli / physiology
                  
                
                  
                    
  Humans
                  
                
                  
                    
  Magnetoencephalography*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Male
                  
                
                  
                    
  Multilingualism*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Nerve Net / physiology
                  
                
                  
                    
  Neuropsychological Tests
                  
                
                  
                    
  Prefrontal Cortex / physiology
                  
                
                  
                    
  Reaction Time / physiology
                  
                
                  
                    
  Reading*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Reference Values
                  
                
                  
                    
  Semantics*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Temporal Lobe / physiology
                  
                