The German Mothertongue - Wikisource, the free online library
Download
The German Mothertongue
From Wikisource
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
←German Day
The German Mothertongue by Carl Schurz 
    
A response to a toast at a banquet in celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of a choral society, the Deutscher Liederkranz, of New York City, January 9, 1897.  Translated by Agathe Schurz, daughter of Carl Schurz. The text is from Frederic Bancroft, ed., Speeches, Correspondence and Political Papers of Carl Schurz, Volume V, New York:  G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1913, pp. 334-338. Notes are from Rudolf Tombo, Sr., and Rudolf Tombo, Jr., eds., Deutsche Reden: Speeches by Bebel, Bennigsen, Bismarck, Blum, Bülow, Dahlmann, Moltke, Richter, Schurz, William II, Boston:  D. C. Heath & Co., 1905, pp. 281-282, which contains the German version of this speech, Die deutsche Muttersprache, on pp. 209-214.  A Wikisource translation has been provided for a poem by Heine which originally appeared without translation in the notes.
475742The German MothertongueCarl Schurz
THE GERMAN MOTHERTONGUE
My Friends:—The toast to the German mothertongue 
ought to be responded to in music. This the
Liederkranz[1]
has done so often and with so much feeling—and again 
only the other day—that it might be better were the 
chorus now to stand in my place, for to-day we celebrate 
more especially the German mothertongue as it speaks 
to us in song. There may indeed be other languages 
which on account of the resonance of their vowels and the 
softness of their consonants are better adapted to singing, 
but in no other language do people sing as much as in 
German and no other nation has given us so great a treasure
of melodies that the people sing, songs of such deep 
feeling and of such virile force. Together with the
mothertongue, the German Lied sprang from the German heart 
and it has made its way around the world. Whatever 
may resist German intellect and German enterprise —
nothing can withstand German song. 
We must be forgiven if, when speaking of our German 
mothertongue, we become a little sentimental, for that is 
not a sign of weakness. You may remember Heine's lines 
about the
“sentimental oaks.”[2]
The German mothertongue
is a treasure for every thoughtful person who 
possesses it, the value of which is to him much more than 
a mere matter of sentiment. We Germans like to hear 
honesty spoken of as one of the prominent traits of the 
German national character; and I, for my part, am
particularly pleased when the better elements of the American 
people rely upon the support of German-Americans when 
questions about honest government and honest
money[3]
arise. Pardon me for referring to such questions here; 
I do so only because honesty is also one of the principal 
characteristics of the German mothertongue. 
Other languages, particularly the Romance, are
distinguished for the refined and graceful elegance of their 
melodious diction. In these languages it is easy to say 
things that sound very pretty and that mean very little. 
In German that is more difficult. I would not imply 
that I consider it admirable, where a sign announces 
“German spoken here,” for one to be as rude as one 
pleases—I mean rather that an insincere or stupid thought 
expressed in German really sounds so. And if you say 
anything clever or graceful in German, you cannot make 
it sound any more clever than it really is. In other words, 
the German mothertongue is not the language of vain 
display. Moreover, like a great organ it commands the 
whole range of musical expression, of force, of grandeur, of 
lofty enthusiasm, of passion, of delicate feeling. What is 
there in any other language that can excel the vigor of 
the German Bible, the powerful, sonorous sublimity of 
Schiller's dramas, the captivating word-music of Heine's 
lyrics? 
It would be superfluous here to speak of the literature 
which has grown up in the German language and includes 
every field of intellectual activity, for its imposing scope 
has been recognized by the whole civilized world. But it 
is not only German literature which the mothertongue has 
to give us. 
There is no language in the world which offers so many 
difficulties to the translator as the German, and none in 
which all the idioms and poetic meters of other languages 
can be so exactly rendered and which has so rich and 
complete a collection of translations. Homer, Dante, 
Hafiz, Shakespeare, Aristotle, Bacon, Thucydides, Tacitus, 
Macaulay, Victor Hugo, Walter Scott, Tolstoy—the 
poetry, philosophy, science, history, fiction of all times 
and of all nations have naturally found a home in the 
German language, through the translations which are 
worthy of the originals by their fidelity, their strength and 
beauty. Indeed, the German language opens up to us 
more than any other the wealth of the literature of the 
whole world. 
We possess, in truth, a treasure which we cannot prize 
highly enough, especially we who have made a new home 
in a new world speaking another language. It is sometimes
expected of our compatriots in America that they 
shall not only learn English, but that they shall entirely 
cast aside the old mothertongue. That is very unwise 
advice. Nobody will dispute that the German-American 
must learn English. He owes it to his new country and he 
owes it to himself. But it is more than folly to say that 
he ought, therefore, to give up the German language. 
As American citizens we must become Americanized; that 
is absolutely necessary. I have always been in favor of a 
sensible Americanization, but this need not mean a complete
abandonment of all that is German. It means that 
we should adopt the best traits of American character 
and join them to the best traits of German character. 
By so doing we shall make the most valuable contribution
to the American nation, to American civilization. 
As Americans we ought to acquire the language of the 
country, but we must not lose our German mothertongue. 
The idea that the preservation of the German language 
together with the English may hinder the development 
of our American patriotism is as silly as it would be 
to say that it makes us less patriotic to be able to sing 
Hail, Columbia in two languages. There are thousands 
of Americans who study German without becoming less 
patriotic; it only makes them more cultured and more 
accomplished. They learn German with laborious effort, 
for German is very difficult. We German-Americans 
have brought this treasure over the ocean with us. We 
need not study German—we need only not to forget it. 
Our children will have without trouble what others can 
acquire only with great difficulty, if we are but sensible 
and conscientious enough to cultivate and to foster it in 
our families. That may not suffice to give our children as 
thorough a knowledge of the language as is desirable, but it 
will immensely facilitate the acquisition of what is lacking. 
I am not preaching as one of whom it might be said: 
“Follow his words but not his deeds.” I flatter myself 
that I am as dutiful an American as any one, and I have 
tried to learn English[4]
and so have my children. But in 
my family circle only German is spoken, much German is 
read and our family correspondence is carried on only in 
German. I may therefore be permitted to express myself 
strongly on this point. And so I say to you when I see 
how German-American parents neglect to secure for their 
children the possession of the mothertongue, often from 
mere indolence, how they wantonly cast aside the precious 
gift—then my German heart and my American commonsense
rise up in indignant protest. Parents who neglect 
to give their children an opportunity to learn the German 
language without effort are sinning against their sacred 
obligation to preserve the mothertongue. All the more 
do I honor a German-American society in which the German
language is valued and cherished as it is here; it is 
doing an incalculable service to our contemporaries as well 
as to coming generations. 
May the Liederkranz, in the unnumbered years that we 
all hope are still in store for it, remain as faithful to this 
noble duty as it has been in the half-century just elapsed—for
the mothertongue is the bond which holds and binds 
its members together. The German mothertongue, the 
dear, strong, noble, tender, sacred mothertongue—may 
it live everlastingly here and all the world over! 
↑ 
One of the leading German singing societies in the city of New York.
↑ 
Speaking of the Westphalians, Heine says in the tenth chapter of his poem, Deutschland, ein Wintermärchen (1844):
Sie fechten gut, sie trinken gut,Und wenn sie die Hand dir reichenZum Freundschaftsbündnis, dann weinen sie;Sind sentimentale Eichen.
 
[“They fight well, they drink well,And when they give you their handIn friendship, then they cry;They are sentimental oaks.”]
Heine was a member of the Landsmannschaft
(student society) Westfalia at the University of
Göttingen.
↑ 
When Schurz made this speech, the presidential
campaign of 1897 had just closed.  It turned principally on
the democratic demand for the free coinage of silver at the ratio of
16:1.  The election of the republican (sound money) candidate
William McKinley, was largely due to the German vote.
↑ 
He succeeded so well in his attempt, that he is recognized as one of
the most eloquent orators, and one of the ablest writers in the
English language.  His
biography of Henry Clay
and his essay on Abraham Lincoln
are regarded as models of English style.
This work is in the public domain in the United States because it was published before January 1, 1928.
This work may be in the public domain in countries and areas with longer native copyright terms that apply the rule of the shorter term to foreign works.
Public domainPublic domainfalsefalse
External links[edit]
Facsimile of Volume V of Speeches, Correspondence and Political Papers of Carl Schurz.
Facsimile of Deutsche Reden.
Retrieved from "https://en.wikisource.org/w/index.php?title=The_German_Mothertongue&oldid=12461385"
Categories: 75%PD-USAmerican speechesHidden category: Pages calling header main block with class
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
PageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main PageCommunity portalCentral discussionRecent changesSubject indexAuthorsRandom workRandom authorRandom transcriptionHelpDonate
Display Options
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this page
Download/print
Printable versionDownload EPUBDownload MOBIDownload PDFOther formats
In other languages
Deutsch
Add links
 This page was last edited on 6 July 2022, at 15:04.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikisource
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement