Hoard finds Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Hoard finds3,584 FollowersRecent papers in Hoard findsTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleInvasion or inflation? Sixth- to seventh-century Byzantine coin hoards in Eastern and Southeastern EuropeSave to LibraryDownloadby Florin Curta•  6  Archaeology, Balkan Studies, Numismatics, Statistical Methods in ArchaeologyBronzen aus der ehemaligen Schloßsammlung Rotenturm im Burgenländischen LandesmuseumSave to LibraryDownloadby Sigrid  Strohschneider-Laue•  2  Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Hoard findsDer Hortfund von Hagenbach (Neuzugänge)Save to LibraryDownloadby Richard Petrovszky•  6  Roman Bronze Vessels, Hoard finds, Roman Weapons, Roman Silverwareschede sul tesoro di Isola RizzaSave to LibraryDownloadby Margherita Bolla•  4  Late Antiquity, Late Roman Archaeology, Hoards, Hoard findsDepoty doby rímskej z oblasti stredoeurópskeho barbarika/ Hoards of the Roman Period from the Central European BarbaricumThe aim of this master thesis is a comprehensive assessment of the issue of formation and hiding hoards in the Roman period in the selected area of the Central Barbaricum, which includes the territory of Bohemia, Moravia, Slovakia and... moreThe aim of this master thesis is a comprehensive assessment of the issue of formation and hiding hoards in the Roman period in the selected area of the Central Barbaricum, which includes the territory of Bohemia, Moravia, Slovakia and Upper Danubian Lower Austria. Based on information from available literature it was created catalog of sites from those territories. Attention is paid not only the composition of the hoards, but also archaeological context and critical evaluation. In the work I have attempted to identify and interpret hoards and their comparison with the wider geographical area.Save to LibraryDownloadby Patrícia  Schindlerová•  4  Coin Hoards, Hoard finds, Barbaricum, Roman ArchaeologyVegerių I ir II lobiaiVegerių kaime (akmenės r., iki 1921 m. priklausė Žagarės valsčiui; 1 pav.), apie 30-40 m į pietus-pietryčius nuo 1944 m. sudegusios medinės baž-nyčios (statyta 1766 m.), aptikti du rusijos imperijos monetų lobiai. Jų likimas nežinomas,... moreVegerių kaime (akmenės r., iki 1921 m. priklausė Žagarės valsčiui; 1 pav.), apie 30-40 m į pietus-pietryčius nuo 1944 m. sudegusios medinės baž-nyčios (statyta 1766 m.), aptikti du rusijos imperijos monetų lobiai. Jų likimas nežinomas, tikriausiai pateko į privačias kolekcijas. Neatmestina galimybė, kad tai galėjo būti ir vienas dviejų dalių lobis. m. 1 rublio sidabrinės monetos (2, 3 pav.). 1 pav. Vegeriai. 1860 m. kauno gubernijos žemėlapio (iX-2 lapas) fragmentasSave to LibraryDownloadby Ernestas  Vasiliauskas•  4  Coin Hoards, Russian Empire, Hoard finds, CoinsWyniki badań archeometalurgicznych tzw. siekiery z dawnej miejscowości Antoniny, pow. chodzieski (with summary)The article presents the results of archaeometallurgical studies performed on a so-called copper axe recovered from the vicinity of a former village of Antoniny, Chodzież district (Great Poland).The relics of an intensive settlement... moreThe article presents the results of archaeometallurgical studies performed on a so-called copper axe recovered from the vicinity of a former village of Antoniny, Chodzież district (Great Poland).The relics of an intensive settlement activity taken by the Funnel Beaker culture (TRB) groups were recognized around the discovery place. By means of the typological analysis it was found that the so-called axe from Antoniny is a defragmented part of a Jászladány B3 type axe-adze. Its chronology can be arbitrarily placed between the late 5th and 2nd half of 4th millennium BC. The axe-adze from Antoniny is another aquatic metal finding (deposited probably also with a dagger) related to the Funnel Beaker culture. The axe-adze was described in terms of its raw material profile (EDXRF) and micro- and macrostructure (OM). With established both contextual and raw material profiles, the provenance and chronology of the deposition act of the axe-adze from Antoniny were also discussedSave to LibraryDownloadby Łukasz Kowalski and +2Kamil AdamczakAldona Garbacz-Klempka•  15  Prehistoric Archaeology, Neolithic Archaeology, Neolithic & Chalcolithic Archaeology, ArchaeometallurgyTHE COPPERSMITH AND THE CASTER: INITIAL THOUGHTS ON IRISH STONE CASTING MOULD HOARDS - Ulster Journal of Archaeology - 2012 (2015)While stone casting moulds have been widely used to inform the study of prehistoric metalworking techniques, the fact that many have been deposited in hoards that include only this kind of object has often been overlooked. Such hoards... moreWhile stone casting moulds have been widely used to inform the study of prehistoric metalworkingtechniques, the fact that many have been deposited in hoards that include only this kind of object hasoften been overlooked. Such hoards are an original aspect of Bronze Age ritual that offers interestingcomparisons with the deposition of metalwork assemblages.Save to LibraryDownloadby Linda  Boutoille•  9  Metallurgy, Metalwork (Archaeology), Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Middle Bronze AgeKaptorgas – the example of Early-medieval goldsmithing craftSave to LibraryDownloadby Agata Sztyber•  12  Art History, Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Medieval WomenBiografía de una vajilla de la Edad del Bronce/Biography of Bronze Age CrockeryEighteen complete ceramic vessels form the exceptional Protocogotas deposit from the archaeological site of Llano las Peñas in Modúbar de la Cuesta (Burgos). This deposit was a premeditated concealment with the intention of being... moreEighteen complete ceramic vessels form the exceptional Protocogotas deposit from the archaeological site of Llano las Peñas in Modúbar de la Cuesta (Burgos). This deposit was a premeditated concealment with the intention of being recovered at a future time, but that did not happen. This discovery, together with the abundant juxtaposition of pit structures, allows the site to be interpreted as an episodic and recursive settlement in the pattern of many sites in the central Iberian Bronze Age, where other types of habitat structures are often not recognized. Apropos of the discovery, the formative cycle of the archaeological record is discussed, considering the views of it as simple dumps or as authentic models ruled by social conduct.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carmen Alonso Fernández and +1Javier Jiménez Echevarría•  9  Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Edad Del Bronce, Hoard finds, Bronze Age PotteryThe Identification of a Later Bronze Age Hoard at Barway, and consideration of the association between metalwork and causewaysA metalwork hoard dated to the Wilburton phase of the later Bronze Age, found at Barway close to the Isle of Ely in the Cambridgeshire Fens, is reported. Consideration of the hoard, in the context of later prehistoric hoarding in the... moreA metalwork hoard dated to the Wilburton phase of the later Bronze Age, found at Barway close to the Isle of Ely in the Cambridgeshire Fens, is reported. Consideration of the hoard, in the context of later prehistoric hoarding in the local landscape, reveals that particular sorts of artefacts were associated with particular places in the landscape. In particular a strong association between later Bronze Age hoards and causeways connecting the Isle of Ely to the outside world is identified, and an interpretation suggested. This study demonstrates the potential of a detailed contextual approach for providing a more nuanced understanding of later Bronze Age metalwork deposition that moves away from a simplistic wet-dry dichotomy.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Barrowclough•  163  European History, European Studies, Archaeology, Prehistoric ArchaeologyФальшивомонетничество в Центральной и Восточной Европе в эпоху Средневековья и раннего Нового времени. The coin counterfeiting in the Central and Eastern Europe in the Middle Age and the Early Modern time.  NEW BOOK RELEASEНовая книга кандидата исторических наук, ведущего научного сотрудника сектора нумизматики Национального музея истории Украины – Андрея Бойко-Гагарина «ФАЛЬШИВОМОНЕТНИЧЕСТВО В ЦЕНТРАЛЬНОЙ И ВОСТОЧНОЙ ЕВРОПЕ В ЭПОХУ СРЕДНЕВЕКОВЬЯ И... moreНовая книга кандидата исторических наук, ведущего научного сотрудника сектора нумизматики Национального музея истории Украины – Андрея Бойко-Гагарина «ФАЛЬШИВОМОНЕТНИЧЕСТВО В ЦЕНТРАЛЬНОЙ И ВОСТОЧНОЙ ЕВРОПЕ В ЭПОХУ СРЕДНЕВЕКОВЬЯ И РАННЕГО НОВОГО ВРЕМЕНИ» посвящена подделкам монет в ущерб денежному обращению. В работе изучены основные типы подделок монет, встречающихся в находках Центральной и Восточной Европы, анализируются причины появления фальсификатов, определена роль фальшивок в истории денежного обращения, локализированы потенциальные центры незаконного производства монет на территории современной Украины. Киев, 2017. Тираж 400 шт.Contact me for ordering the bookДля приобретения книги свяжитесь со мнойboiko.gagarin@gmail.comSave to LibraryDownloadby Andrei Boiko-Gagarin . Андрій Бойко-Гагарін•  56  History, Economic History, Medieval History, Medieval StudiesGouden munten uit de nadagen van het Romeinse Rijk. Vijfde-eeuwse muntvondsten uit Nederlandse bodemDutch coin hoards of the 5th centurySave to LibraryDownloadby Jan Pelsdonk•  12  Archaeology, Numismatics, Ancient numismatics (Archaeology), Roman numismatics and archaeologyTHE BISTRITA HOARD. A ROMAN REPUBLICAN HOARD? (Full text and illustrations)Save to LibraryDownloadby Cristian Gazdac•  46  History, Ancient History, Economic History, ArchaeologyHoria CIUGUDEAN, Sabin Adrian LUCA, Adrian GEORGESCU: Depozite de bronzuri preistorice din colecția Brukenthal (I) / Prehistoric Bronze Hoards in the Brukenthal Collection (I)Save to LibraryDownloadby Sabin Adrian Luca•  7  Archaeology, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Bronze Age (Archaeology), European Prehistory (Archaeology)co-editor: Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen. Inventar: Kleinpolen, SchlesienDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Als... moreDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der  Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche  Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des  Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Als erstes erschienen  ist der Band IV für Kleinpolen und Schlesien. 500 Seiten liefern  detaillierte Listen und Beschreibungen der Schätze, Münzen und  der Schmuckstücke: insgesamt 231 verzeichnete Funde, die  31.921 Objekte enthalten. Die Listen werden ergänzt durch  zahlreiche Abbildungen auf 78 Tafeln.  Das Buch kann bestellt werden beim IAE: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl  oder bei dem Buchladen Historische Bücher:  http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-19-9 PREIS: 50 PLN (ca. 17 Euro) Instytut Archeologii i Etnologii PAN prezentuje tom Inwentarzy  Polskich Skarbów Wczesnośredniowiecznych, w którym  zebrano  znaleziska skarbów i monet z lat 500–1150, z obszaru  Małopolski i Śląska. Na 500 stronach znajdują się szczegółowe  wykazy i opisy skarbów, monet i ozdób – łącznie zarejestrowano  231 znalezisk, zawierających 31 921 obiektów. Wykazy  uzupełnione są licznymi ilustracjami na 78 tablicach. Książkę można zamawiać w IAE PAN: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl oraz w Księgarni Historycznej: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-19-9 CENA: 50 PLN The Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology presents the  Polish Early Medieval Hoards Inventories, bringing  together all the hoard and single finds (500–1150) in the  area of Lesser Poland and Silesia. At 500 pages the volume  provides detailed lists and descriptions of hoards, coins  and ornaments – a total of 231 registered finds, containing  31 921 objects. The lists are supplemented with  numerous illustrations on 78 plates. The book can be ordered from IAE PAN:  http://www.iaepan.edu.pl  or Historical Bookshop: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl  ISBN: 978-83-63760-19-9  PRICE: 50 PLN (approx. 17 Euro)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mateusz Bogucki•  20  Economic History, Polish History, Numismatics, Viking Age ArchaeologyRGF 55 (1996):  Frank Berger, Kalkriese 1. Die römischen FundmünzenSave to LibraryDownloadby Publications  of the RGK: Journals, Series and Monographs•  6  Archaeology, Roman coins, Roman Provincial Archaeology, Roman Provincial CoinageA feküvõ kincs. Késõ bronzkori kincsleleteink a homéroszi eposzok tükrébenHomérosz kilétét, tevékenységét harmadfélezer éve vitatják és csodálják mûveinek olvasói. A tudományos világ – számos szakterületen – ma is kutatja. Elemzi, párhuzamként, magyarázatként használja eposzait, vizsgálja a mû születésének... moreHomérosz kilétét, tevékenységét harmadfélezer éve vitatják és csodálják mûveinek olvasói. A tudományos világ – számos szakterületen – ma is kutatja. Elemzi, párhuzamként, magyarázatként használja eposzait, vizsgálja a mû születésének körülményeit, az orális költészet szerepét és mûködését. Az Iliász és az Odüsszeia egy letûnt világot, a mükénéi hagyományokat, történelmet, a görög istenvilág megszületésének korai állapotát, az eszményeket, a hôskultuszt mutatja be, a görög korai vaskorban. A Kr. e. VIII–VI. században a mediterrán „regôsök” (vándor énekmondók, rapszódoszok vagy homéridák) énekei tartották fenn a „régi dicsôség” emlékét, egy elôször hanyatló, majd stagnáló, késôbb lassan fejlôdésnek induló korban, ezzel a görögség számára e nehéz idôszak átvészelését is segítették. A széthulló, majd újraformálódó törzsek, a születô poliszok világában a görögök ekkoriban a két, egymással viaskodó euboiai város, Khalkhisz és Eretria (a meginduló gyarmatosítás két élharcosa) között hosszan elnyúló háborúskodásban vettek részt valamelyikük oldalán, a termékeny és rézben gazdag lélantoszi síkon ennek kincseiért, s közben az elmúlt idôk görög hôseinek Trója falai alatt vívott harcaira és Odüsszeusz bolyongásaira emlékeztek. E korszakban tágult ki a görögök érdeklôdése minden, korábban ismeretlen terület felé, elsôsorban fémet, nyersanyagokat, gabonát kerestek, majd késôbb piacot is a lassan újra fellendülô gazdaságuk számára.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mária Fekete•  8  Homer, Metallurgy, Late Bronze Age archaeology, Homeric poetryZuyderwyk, J, 2007, De Karolingische zilverschat van Roermond. Beschrijving en interpretatie van een negende eeuwse gemengde zilverschat.Save to LibraryDownloadby Janneke Zuyderwyk•  16  Early Medieval Archaeology, Viking Age Archaeology, Carolingian Studies, Metal Finds (Archaeology)Tankards of the British Iron AgeIron Age tankards are stave-built wooden vessels completely covered or bound in copper-alloy sheet. The distinctive copper-alloy handles of these vessels frequently display intricate ‘Celtic’ or La Tène art styles. They are characterised... moreIron Age tankards are stave-built wooden vessels completely covered or bound in copper-alloy sheet. Thedistinctive copper-alloy handles of these vessels frequently display intricate ‘Celtic’ or La Tène art styles. Theyare characterised by their often highly original designs, complex manufacturing processes, and variety of findcontexts. No systematic analysis of this artefact class has been undertaken since Corcoran’s (1952a) originalstudy was published in Volume 18 of these Proceedings. New evidence from the Portable Antiquities Scheme forEngland and Wales and recent excavations have more than quadrupled the number of known examples(139 currently). It is therefore necessary and timely to re-examine tankards, and to reintegrate them into currentdebates surrounding material culture in later prehistory. Tankards originate in the later Iron Age and their usecontinued throughout much of the Roman period. As such, their design was subject to varying influences overtime, both social and aesthetic. Their often highly individual form and decoration is testament to this fact andhas created challenges in developing a workable typology (Corcoran 1952a; 1952b; 1957; Spratling 1972;Jackson 1990). A full examination of the decoration, construction, wear and repair, dating, and depositioncontexts will allow for a reassessment of the role of tankards within the social and cultural milieu of laterprehistoric and early Roman Britain.Save to LibraryDownloadby Johnny Horn•  10  Iron Age Britain (Archaeology), Celtic Archaeology, Archaeology of Beer and Cereal Fermentation, Late Iron Age (Archaeology)Unwrapping the Galloway HoardUnwrapping the Galloway Hoard is a three-year UK Arts & Humanities Research Council (AHRC) project (2021- 2024) which aims to challenge current understanding of the process of hoarding through an interdisciplinary study of one of the... moreUnwrapping the Galloway Hoard is a three-year UK Arts & Humanities Research Council (AHRC) project (2021-2024) which aims to challenge current understanding of the process of hoarding through an interdisciplinary study of one of the best-preserved hoards found in Britain to date.Save to LibraryDownloadby Susanna Harris•  10  Textile Archaeology, Viking Studies, Viking Age Archaeology, Hoard findsRipostigli e complessi di bronzi votivi della Sardegna nuragica tra bronzo recente e prima età del ferro. Proposta di una scansione cronologica."In this article is presented a proposal of seriation of bronze artifacts votive groups and hoards from Nuragic Sardinia, on the basis of statistic-combinatory analysis, in a chronological span between Recent Bronze Age and Early Iron... more"In this article is presented a proposal of seriationof bronze artifacts votive groups and hoards fromNuragic Sardinia, on the basis of statistic-combinatoryanalysis, in a chronological span betweenRecent Bronze Age and Early Iron Age.The specimen includes only fully published contexts.Results show that the frequentation of thenuragic sanctuaries and the habit of assemblinghoards are well documented phenomena until thelatter phases of Italian Early Iron Age. Thechronological seriation proposed for nuragic contextsis easily comparable with the Italian continentalsequence, on the basis of several typologicalcomparisons."Save to LibraryDownloadby Nicola  Ialongo•  46  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Mediterranean prehistory, Sardinia (Archaeology)Archäologische Prospektion im hinteren Passeiertal (Südtirol)This paper is the presentation of the results of the Euregio-Project "Hochalpine Archäologie in den Ötztaler Alpen). The archeological survey in this alpine region brought to the light many findings and sites from different ages, from the... moreThis paper is the presentation of the results of the Euregio-Project "Hochalpine Archäologie in den Ötztaler Alpen). The archeological survey in this alpine region brought to the light many findings and sites from different ages, from the mesolithic until the medieval period, the documentation of the excavation of a late bronze age herder settlement on the Ulfaser Alm (Passeier valley in South Tyrol) and it includes many radiocarbon data.Save to LibraryDownloadby hanns  oberrauch•  4  Studies on worship, Hoard finds, Copper age, European Copper and Bronze Age – Archaeometallurgy – Prehistoric Metalworking in Social Context – Settlement Archaeology – Application of Geophysical Methods in Archaeology – Neolithic – Theory / Cultural Anthropology – Material Culture StudiesBronze Age Treasures in Hungary.The Quest for Buried Weapons, Tools and Jewellery. (2019)(the full text in English)The legacy of the Late Bronze Age communities populating the Carpathian Basin between the fourteenth and tenth centuries BC represents the perhaps most colourful and numerous range of artefacts before the Roman conquest. These peoples... moreThe legacy of the Late Bronze Age communities populating the Carpathian Basin between the fourteenth and tenth centuries BC represents the perhaps most colourful and numerous range of artefacts before the Roman conquest. These peoples transformed the landscape on a previously unprecedented scale with the erection of tumuli over their burials and the construction of monumental hillforts; they drew previously unbroken land into cultivation and founded many dozens of new settlements deep in the forest-covered hills and mountains. Their most spectacular relics are the hoards containing a dazzling array of bronze and gold articles, whose deposition and concealment has fuelled incessant debates for over a century. We now know that the assemblages containing valuable weapons, jewellery and a variety of tools and implements were assembled according to specific cultural norms. Each of these hoards has a different story to tell: some preserve the memory of journeys to distant lands, spectacular rituals and sumptuous feasts, others evoke the toils of daily life and bloody wars. The widespread deposition and concealment of hoards is solely attested in Bronze Age Europe during the second millennium BC – a similar practice is unknown during other periods in the history of Europe or on other continents. The research team headed by the author has systematically visited the known Bronze Age sites of Hungary and conducted metal detecting surveys in order to locate and salvage as many as possible of the Bronze Age treasures still hidden in the ground. This book offers a fascinating glimpse into this long bygone age through the discovered hoards, bringing us closer to the peoples who buried them and the possible events behind their concealment.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gábor Szabó•  13  Prehistoric Archaeology, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Bronze Age Archaeology, Late Bronze Age archaeologyDivergent Ways of Relating to the Past in the Viking Age. European Journal of Archaeology 19 (3) 2016, 415-438The flexibility of material culture encourages material phenomena to take a dynamic part in social life. An example of this is material citation, which can provide society with links to both the past and connections to contemporary... moreThe flexibility of material culture encourages material phenomena to take a dynamic part in social life. An example of this is material citation, which can provide society with links to both the past and connections to contemporary features. In this article, we look at the diverging ways of relating to and reinventing the past in the Viking Age, exploring citations to ancient monuments in the landscape of Gammel Lejre on Zealand, Denmark. Complementing the placement of landscape monuments, attention is also brought to examples of mortuary citations related to bodily practices in Viking-age mortuary dramas, such as those visible at the mound of Skopintull on the island of Adelsö in Lake Mälaren, Sweden. Through these case studies, we explore the variability in citational strategies found across tenth-century Scandinavia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elisabeth Arwill-Nordbladh and +1Julie Lund•  12  Archaeology, Landscape Archaeology, Early Medieval Archaeology, Early Medieval HistoryDer Schatzfund von Wiener Neustadt. Biografie eines SensationsfundesIn 2007, a private person found a hoard of gold and silver while excavating a pond on his own property in the Wiener Neustadt urban area (Lower Austria). According to the finder, the objects were squashed together in a clod of earth,... moreIn 2007, a private person found a hoard of gold and silver while excavating a pond onhis own property in the Wiener Neustadt urban area (Lower Austria). According to thefinder, the objects were squashed together in a clod of earth, which apart from a notidentifiable iron object, which the finder threw away, contained no further pieces or remains.Three years later the finder rediscovered the earthen clod, where he had depositedit unceremoniously in his cellar, and examined it. After initial cleaning had shownthat the hoard appeared to consist of antique jewellery, the finder contacted the Federal Office for the Protection of Monuments in 2010 and handed over the objects to the Department of Archaeology for analysis.In 2011, with the agreement of the finder and – following the purchase of the treasureby the Region of Lower Austria – of the new owners, the Federal Office for the Protection of Monuments took over the coordination of the scientific evaluation of thefind. Little time was available as the results were to be published in tandem with anexhibition about the treasure in 2014 and money was also limited, despite generousfinancial support by both the Federal Office for the Protection of Monuments and theRegion of Lower Austria. The project team therefore concentrated on an exact documentation, description and typological-cultural historical classification of the objects.The first part of the project »Scientific analysis of the Wiener Neustadt hoard« consisted of the careful cleansing of the objects and various means of material Analysis (x-ray fluorescence analysis, analysis with a scanning electron microscope – SEM). The documentation of the objects took place exclusively photographically, but highly sophisticated graphic methods were then employed. A comprehensive technical record of the manufacturing methods used was prepared in a next step. The cultural historical evaluation process included the precise typological-chronological classification of the hoard’s components, and was further accompanied by epigraphic-heraldic and art historical analyses. Against all expectations, historical research in the closing phase of the project was able to connect a beaker from the treasure to a known Wiener Neustadt family. Together with the analysis of corrosion residues, which indicated a burial Milieu for the finds similar to that of the find spot, this clearly confirms the accuracy of the story of the hoard’s discovery. (Translation: Paul Mitchell)Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaus Hofer•  2  Medieval Archaeology, Hoard findsInventory of coin finds / Repertorio dei ritrovamenti monetari - Bibliography/Bibliografiaversion 19/2022 (last update: March 23rd, 2023). This document is the result of a collaboration of several authors. Thus, the homogeneity and the correctness of its contents cannot be guaranteed by the editor. To correct errors, add... moreversion 19/2022 (last update: March 23rd, 2023). This document is the result of a collaboration of several authors. Thus, the homogeneity and the correctness of its contents cannot be guaranteed by the editor.To correct errors, add new contents, or check possible updates not included in this paper, please refer to the official site of the project https://www.sibrium.org/CoinFinds  Please, always check the latest version of this document on:- https://www.sibrium.org/Materiali - https://independent.academia.edu/LucaGianazzaSave to LibraryDownloadby Luca Gianazza•  41  Archaeology, Digital Humanities, Early Medieval Archaeology, NumismaticsInventory of coin finds / Repertorio dei ritrovamenti monetari - Italy/Italiaversion 19/2022 (last update: March 23rd, 2023). This document is the result of a collaboration of several authors. Thus, the homogeneity and the correctness of its contents cannot be guaranteed by the editor. To correct errors, add... moreversion 19/2022 (last update: March 23rd, 2023). This document is the result of a collaboration of several authors. Thus, the homogeneity and the correctness of its contents cannot be guaranteed by the editor. To correct errors, add new contents, or check possible updates not included in this paper, please refer to the official site of the project https://www.sibrium.org/CoinFinds/  Bibliographic references in squared brackets (es. [ARSLAN 2004]) may not have a correspondence in the “Bibliography” document. Please, always check the latest version of this document on:- https://www.sibrium.org/Materiali - https://independent.academia.edu/LucaGianazza  For the key of the abbreviations in the bibliography, please refer to "Repertorio dei ritrovamenti monetari / Inventory of coin finds - Bibliografia/Bibliography" (https://www.sibrium.org/Materiali/Coinfinds_bibliography.pdf or https://www.academia.edu/6677465/Repertorio_dei_ritrovamenti_monetari_Inventory_of_coin_finds_-_Bibliografia_Bibliography)Save to LibraryDownloadby Luca Gianazza•  42  Archaeology, Digital Humanities, Early Medieval Archaeology, NumismaticsBronzkori kincsek Magyarországon. Földbe rejtett fegyverek, eszközök, ékszerek nyomában. (2019) (the full text in Hungarian)A Kárpát­medence területén a rómaiak megjelenése előtt a Krisztus előtti 14. és 10. század között élt késő bronzkori emberek hagyták hátra a legtöbb és legváltozatosabb emlékanyagot. Ők voltak azok is, akik halom­ sírjaikkal és... moreA Kárpát­medence területén a rómaiak megjelenése előtt a Krisztus előtti 14. és 10. század között élt késő bronzkori emberek hagyták hátra a legtöbb és legváltozatosabb emlékanyagot. Ők voltak azok is, akik halom­ sírjaikkal és monumentális földváraikkal addig soha nem látott mértékben formálták át a táj arculatát, fel­ töretlen földeket hódítottak meg és új települések tucatjait alapították az erdővel borított hegységek mélyén. Leglátványosabb tárgyi emlékeik azok a különleges bronz­ és aranytárgyakat tartalmazó kincsek, melyek földbe kerülésének és elrejtésének titokzatos okairól több mint egy évszázada folyik a tudományos vita. Mára bizonyossá vált, hogy az értékes fegyvereket, ékszereket és munka eszközöket tartalmazó együtteseket meghatározott szabályok szerint válogatták össze. A kincsek sokféle emléket őriznek: vannak köztük olyan tárgyak, amelyek távoli földekre tett utazásokról, látványos szertartásokról, pazar lakomákról tudósítanak, mások a mindennapok munkáit vagy éppen véres harcokat idéznek. Elrejtésük szokása kizárólag a Krisztus előtti második évezred bronzkori Európá jában előforduló jelenség, hasonlóra nem ismerünk példát a törté­ nelem folyamán sem kontinensünkön, sem azon kívül. A kötet szerzője egy egyetemi kutatási program ke­ retében fémkereső műszeres csapatával másfél évtizede járja Magyarország bronzkori lelőhelyeit azzal a céllal, hogy minél többet felderítsen és megmentsen a még föld alatt rejtőző bronzkori kincsekből. Ebben a könyv­ ben az így felfedezett leletek segítségével mesél a korról, a tárgyak elrejtőiről és a kincsek földbe kerülésének lehetséges történetéről.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gábor Szabó•  16  Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Bronze Age Archaeology, Late Bronze Age archaeology, Bronze Age (Archaeology)ULPIA TRAIANA SARMIZEGETUSA (full text)Save to LibraryDownloadby Cristian Gazdac•  35  Ancient History, Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Monetary EconomicsInventory of coin finds / Repertorio dei ritrovamenti monetari - Italy/Italia (Medieval & Modern times)version 19/2022 (last update: March 23rd, 2023). This document is the result of a collaboration of several authors. Thus, the homogeneity and the correctness of its contents cannot be guaranteed by the editor. To correct errors, add... moreversion 19/2022 (last update: March 23rd, 2023). This document is the result of a collaboration of several authors. Thus, the homogeneity and the correctness of its contents cannot be guaranteed by the editor. To correct errors, add new contents, or check possible updates not included in this paper, please refer to the official site of the project https://www.sibrium.org/CoinFinds/  Bibliographic references in squared brackets (es. [ARSLAN 2004]) may not have a correspondence in the “Bibliography” document Please, always check the latest version of this document on:- https://www.sibrium.org/Materiali - https://independent.academia.edu/LucaGianazza  For the key of the abbreviations in the bibliography, please refer to "Repertorio dei ritrovamenti monetari / Inventory of coin finds - Bibliografia/Bibliography" (https://www.sibrium.org/Materiali/Coinfinds_bibliography.pdf or https://www.academia.edu/6677465/Repertorio_dei_ritrovamenti_monetari_Inventory_of_coin_finds_-_Bibliografia_Bibliography)Save to LibraryDownloadby Luca Gianazza•  26  Archaeology, Digital Humanities, Early Medieval Archaeology, NumismaticsM. Blečić Kavur 2014 - At the crossroads of worlds at the turn of the millennia: The Late Bronze Age in the Kvarner / Na razmeđu svijetova za prijelaza milenija: Kasno brončano doba na KvarneruThe present book which has just made its way to you did so for a reason. It is because books, just like any other objects, have their own soul and their own history that have to be respected, and they will stay only with such persons who... moreThe present book which has just made its way to you did so for a reason. It is because books, just like any other objects, have their own soul and their own history that have to be respected, and they will stay only with such persons who pay them respect. In fact, this book is an “object” about objects that have been re-discovered. It is about lost things, about buried treasures, personal and collective, beloved and kept, discarded and unwanted, old and new, about symbols and metaphors… it is about objects that did not mark only their own, but also my and our common past. In the course of their life cycles their “soul” has been purified and their past is thus very remote. Through a “rebirth” in our era they got a chance to have their past interpreted, which is a complex and never ending “mission”. However, with a reliable provocation and a perfect motivation, the research of their meanings, values and backgrounds within a broader, larger and more detailed cultural context, enables us to discover “worlds” of consciousness and knowledge about the period of their then present. This was the time of the so called Late Bronze Age, an exceptional period covering the last centuries of the 2nd and the transition to the 1st millennium BC. It displays a specific manifestation on the territory of the northern Adriatic, in particular on the Kvarner territory – the area of my “object”, of my past and of our common present. The Kvarner area is the “point of departure” of every single, selected object presented in this book. In a specific “form”, which managed to be preserved or to “survive” for more than 3.000 years these artifacts reached me/us in extremely reduced quantities and in states of preservation which often required much effort in trying to understand their initial, primary, secondary and metaphorical meaning. Since this is one of the most poorly researched areas of the eastern Adriatic coast, as well as on the territory of today’s Croatia, this book presents, analyzes and interprets an impressive number of finds. Although the majority of those objects was published and is well known in the scientific literature, the attitude to those finds was often not satisfactory. In fact, it was an attitude of superficiality and underestimation, depriving them of that certain respect. It is because of such an attitude, which has unfortunately been confirmed lately, and from the perspective of that ancient culture of living and behaving, that I have tried to include amongst known artifacts also such finds from old, forgotten publications, both from chance finds and private property, as well as recent discoveries. This is why only a smaller number of finds has been published for the first time. However, the cultural, stylistic and typological, interactive and significant context of their essence and “soul” within the vast network of knowledge and skills of that past has been significantly extended and explained. “Old” and “new” artifacts united into one single “object” will redirect their manipulation and thereby also the evaluation of their cultural past and heritage of one of the most interesting and most colorful areas of the whole Adriatic basin. The book has several units. The introductory discussions about the spatial reach and the natural features of the Kvarner area, as well as an overview of the sites and history of research provide basic information and illustrate the situation that follows in the most important part of the book – i.e. the Typological classification, chronological determination and cultural interpretation – containing all the finds that have been collected, by applying the archaeological method, but which have been analyzed and interpreted within a broader spatial and cultural context. The interpretations set and accepted are put into a more relative perspective in the final chapter, they are discussed within a reconstructed context of social potential, of cultural and historical manifestations which have not been critically evaluated in this way so far. Being aware of the fact that every inconsistency or mistake in the present work is exclusively and only my responsibility, I wish you, dear readers, a pleasant and/or useful reading of the past which surely has its own soul.Save to LibraryDownloadby Martina Blečić Kavur•  33  Prehistoric Archaeology, Mediterranean prehistory, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Bronze Age Archaeology"Numismatic Circulation in the Macedonian Kingdom. The Case of Pella", in: Les monnaies de fouille du monde grec (VIe-Ier s. a. C) (eds. C. Grandjean, F. Duyrat), Bordeaux 2016,177-201In this article, numismatic material from the southern part of Pella, south of the city’s north wall of the Classical period is presented. This material is very representative, because it derives from the city of both Classical and... moreIn this article, numismatic material from the southern part of Pella, south of the city’s north wall of the Classical period is presented. This material is very representative, because it derives from the city of both Classical and Hellenistic eras. Around 2400 coins have been studied from three major excavation areas; 1) The new entrance of the archaeological site where three town blocks came to light, in which public buildings, such as a bath, and also pottery and metal workshops have come to light. 2) The area of the sanctuaries, where the sanctuary of Darron, a local healing god has been unearthed, as well as a circular building that is probably related to a hero cult and other buildings related to cult needs 3) Phakos, the fortified island inside lake Loudias, where Pella’s harbor and treasury was located. Furthermore, coins from rescue excavations of the surrounding plots have been studied. These come from various buildings, mostly houses. Apart from single coins, seven coin hoards have also been presented. Numismatic material from Pella can be placed in three categories according to issuing authority; a) regal coins b) issues of the Macedonian cities and the Macedonian Koina c) coins from areas outside Macedonia. These coins offer valuable information regarding the economy and the numismatic circulation during the Classical and Hellenistic period as well as the chronology of the buildings under study.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikos Akamatis•  26  Ancient History, Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Greek HistoryFrühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen Inventar. PommernDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Als... moreDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Als erstes erschienen ist der Band II für Pommern. 817 Seiten liefern detaillierte Listen und Beschreibungen der Schätze, Münzen und der Schmuckstücke: insgesamt 291 verzeichnete Funde, die 65.404 Objekte enthalten. Die Listen werden ergänzt durch zahlreiche Abbildungen auf 109 Tafeln. Das Buch kann bestellt werden beim IAE: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl (bookshop@iaepan.edu.pl) oder bei dem Buchladen Historische Bücher: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-84-7 PREIS: 50 PLN (ca. 17 Euro) Instytut Archeologii i Etnologii PAN prezentuje tom Inwentarzy Polskich Skarbów Wczesnośredniowiecznych, w którym zebrano znaleziska skarbów i monet z lat 500–1150, z obszaru Pomorza. Na 817 stronach znajdują się szczegółowe wykazy i opisy skarbów, monet i ozdób – łącznie zarejestrowano 291 znalezisk, zawierających 65 404 obiekty. Wykazy uzupełnione są licznymi ilustracjami na 109 tablicach. Książkę można zamawiać w IAE PAN: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl (bookshop@iaepan.edu.pl) oraz w Księgarni Historycznej: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-61-8 CENA: 50 PLN The Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology presents the Polish Early Medieval Hoards Inventories, bringing together all the hoard and single finds (500–1150) in the area of Pomerania. At 817 pages the volume provides detailed lists and descriptions of hoards, coins and ornaments – a total of 291 registered finds, containing 65 404 objects. The lists are supplemented with numerous illustrations on 109 plates. The book can be ordered from IAE PAN: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl (bookshop@iaepan.edu.pl) or Historical Bookshop: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-61-8 PRICE: 50 PLN (approx. 17 Euro)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mateusz Bogucki and +9Genowefa HoroszkoJerzy PinińskiMichał KuleszaTomasz NowakiewiczPeter IlischAgnieszka KowalówkaDorota MalarczykAndrzej RomanowskiRoksana  Wawrzczak•  20  Economic History, Polish History, Numismatics, Viking Age ArchaeologyBanquet of elites: Hallstatt Period hoard with vessels and iron cauldron hanger of Kralice na Hané in Moravia (CZ)The Hallstatt hoard from Kralice na Hané, containing eight bronze vessels, iron hanger for cauldrons and two iron heads of supporting rods used in fire pits, represents a unique evidence of deposition of luxury items from the period of... moreThe Hallstatt hoard from Kralice na Hané, containing eight bronze vessels, iron hanger for cauldrons and two iron heads of supporting rods used in fire pits, represents a unique evidence of deposition of luxury items from the period of 625–500 BCE (Ha D1–D2) in the Czech Republic. The hanging assembly for cauldrons and the supporting heads do not have any known analogies in the Hallstatt Period and constitute the oldest find of its kind to the North of the Alps. The bronze vessels are also unique in their own way, there are no analogies to the ladles with levered handles, and bowls with what is known as omphalos are very rare. The detailed analysis of the hoard reveals the social roots of the owners. They were probably members of the elite class. Chemical analysis proved the presence of animal fat residue in the bronze vessels. The possible usage of the vessel is discussed in the details. Additionally, the three sequences of the existence of the set, i.e. – origins of the set, predisposition processes of the set and the background of its placement in the proximity of a magnate homestead in the centre of the Platěnice group of the East Hallstatt culture in Central Moravia, are described. Authors are suggesting the use of luxurious set in the banquet of elites combined with prolonged burial ceremony.Save to LibraryDownloadby Martin Golec and +2Zuzana Golec MírováPavel Fojtík•  8  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Late Iron Age (Archaeology), Early Iron AgeEuropas größter Spangenbarrenhort: Der frühbronzezeitliche Kupferschatz von OberdingPreliminary report about the largest early Bronze Age rib ingot hoard in Europe.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carola  Metzner-Nebelsick•  5  Early Bronze Age, Hoard finds, Copper ingots, Southern GermanyHorsemen in forts or peasants in villages? Remarks on the archaeology of warfare in the 6th to 7th century BalkansSave to LibraryDownloadby Florin Curta•  7  Balkan History, Late Antique Archaeology, Early Medieval Archaeology, Ancient Agriculture & Farming (Archaeology)Memnon and Mentor of Rhodes in the TroadThis article presents a small hoard group from the Troad which appeared on the London market in February 2016. The hoard group can be dated to the mid-350s when Memnon and Mentor of Rhodes were ruling the Troad on behalf of the Persian... moreThis article presents a small hoard group from the Troad which appeared on the London market in February 2016. The hoard group can be dated to the mid-350s when Memnon and Mentor of Rhodes were ruling the Troad on behalf of the Persian authorities. This hoard group therefore provides a much-needed fixed point in the chronology of Troad coinages which allows us to re-date a number of other 4th century silver coinages from the Troad to the 350s/340s, thus producing a new picture of the region’s minting activity in this period. The hoard group contains one example of a rare anepigraphic series depicting an archaic cult statue of Athena Ilias on the reverse. This and other numismatic depictions of this cult statue can now be placed in the context of Memnon and Mentor’s rule of the Troad and provide an important precedent for the Hellenistic and Imperial-era koinon of Athena Ilias as an expression of regional identity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aneurin Ellis-Evans•  10  Regionalism, Ancient Greek Religion, Greek coinage, LesbosHolger Baitinger, Fremde Waffen in griechischen Heiligtümern. In: M. Egg / A. Naso / R. Rollinger (Hrsg.), Waffen für die Götter. RGZM Tagungen 28 (Mainz 2016) 67-85Arms and armour are among the most common votive offerings in Greek sanctuaries from the second half of the 8th to the 5th centuries B.C. Most of these weapons were captured in wars from Greeks by Greeks, and dedicated to the gods as... moreArms and armour are among the most common votive offerings in Greek sanctuaries from the second half of the 8th to the 5th centuries B.C. Most of these weapons were captured in wars from Greeks by Greeks, and dedicated to the gods as votive gifts in important sanctuaries like Delphi or Olympia, but a significant number of objects originate from contact zones with »barbarian« peoples, e.g. from the eastern Mediterranean and from the Balkan peninsula. A large number of foreign weapons in Greek sanctuaries derive from Sicily or Italy. They are dated to the 8th or 7th centuries B.C., a period when the first Greek colonies in the western Mediterranean were founded. On the other hand, weapons of the 6th and 5th centuries B.C. from this area remain very scarce in Greece. Some of those objects can be precisely connected with particular regions of Magna Graecia as is the case with long bronze spearheads with two small holes at the lower end of the blade, for which there are close parallels in eastern Sicilian hoards of 7th century B.C., such as the one from Mendolito di Adrano (prov. Catania). Usually such weapons are preserved only as small fragments in Greek sanctuaries (like in the Mendolito hoard) and often they show significant traces of deliberate damage. In contrast, in the sanctuary of Kalapodi (Phocis, Greece) deliberately destroyed weapons are almost completely absent in layers of the late 8th and 7th centuries B.C., while their numbers increase between the end of the 7th and the 4th centuries B.C. The fragmentary status of Sicilian weapons in Greek sanctuaries can therefore be taken as proof that the objects were not dedicated as booty of war, but as scrap metal such as is known from Italian hoards of the Late Bronze Age and Early Iron Age. The long-term storage in an Italian scrap hoard can also provide an explanation for the existence of some »pre-colonial« bronze objects in Greek sanctuaries which could have been brought to Greece at a much later time.Save to LibraryDownloadby Holger Baitinger•  11  Greek Archaeology, Metal Finds (Archaeology), Peloponnese, Archaic GreeceTHE FORUM HOARD OF ANGLO-SAXON COINS/IL RIPOSTIGLIO DELL'ATRIUM VESTAE NEL FORO ROMANOSave to LibraryDownloadby Rory Naismith and +1Francesca Tinti•  21  Anglo-Saxon Studies, Anglo-Saxon Studies (History), Early Medieval Archaeology, NumismaticsDer Schatzfund von Wiener Neustadt. Synthese der ForschungsergebnisseThe Wiener Neustadt hoard was found in 2007 by a private individual in a garden in today’s municipal area and entrusted to the Federal Department for the Protection of Monuments in 2010. The hoard was deposited near the intersection of... moreThe Wiener Neustadt hoard was found in 2007 by a private individual in a garden in today’s municipal area and entrusted to the Federal Department for the Protection of Monuments in 2010. The hoard was deposited near the intersection of two important roads, the roads to Baden and Vienna (the Vienna road was once »the Venice Road«, a trade route of European importance); the nearby execution site belonging to the town’s high court may have served as a landmark and marker for the hoard.The hoard included entirely non-monetary objects, mostly jewellery and clothing accessories; a smaller amount of fragmented dining utensils were also included. The collection consists of a total of 238 finds objects (all fragments included), which were pieced together to make up 149 individual items. The total weight was ca. 2,200 grams.Rings formed the largest group within the hoard and demonstrated – as the brooches did not – a remarkable variety in their composition and decoration. As well as rings with ring plates, which showed a wide range of quasi-heraldic, religious and ›courtly‹ motifs, the finds complex also contained rings with settings for gemstones and fede rings. Some rings with quasi-heraldic motifs on their ring plates could have served as signet rings.The most frequent clothing fasteners are the brooches, which are characterised by a high degree of uniformity. A large amount of big pieces with star-shaped frames is particularly of note. Among the other finds are a splendid hook closure, various hooks and eyelets, buttons, a belt fixture and other clothing accoutrements.The fragments of dining utensils are qualitatively the most outstanding in the complex: The hoard contains fragments of five beakers, four shallow bowls, a twin beaker, a goblet and four spoons with decorated handles. Only two drinking beakers (so-called »staple beakers«) are more or less completely preserved. They bear toasts written in German, which have to be understood in connection with late medieval ideas of courtly love.The results of the materials analysis carried out on a representative selection of the objects from the Wiener Neustadt hoard show, that silver forms the main component of nearly all the metallic objects found and that, with few exceptions, all the objects are firegilded on their surfaces. The results of the analysis indicate the collection of ›scrap metal‹, a finding which correlates with the typological heterogeneity of the finds complex.The drinking vessels are of the highest manufacturing standard, generally speaking: the rings and also the clothing accoutrements are more varied in this regard. More or less distinct traces of use were found on almost all finds objects. The breakage surfaces on the fragmented objects of the hoard are overwhelmingly not fresh, which means that they were probably already damaged or were deliberately cut up on collection.The fact that the hoard consists exclusively of non-monetary objects and cannot be placed in any kind of stratigraphic context, makes it very difficult to pin down the period in which it was hidden. The detailed results of the typological analysis of all the individual objects of the Wiener Neustadt hoard taken together produce a date range of almost 150 years, to be exact from the first half of the 13th to the second half of the 14th centuries; the largest part belongs to the 14th century however. That means that the concealment of the hoard took place at the earliest ca. or shortly after 1350/1360 and at the latest in the early 15th century; the most likely date is the late 14th century or the period around 1400.A peculiarity of the hoard complex is the combination of genuine Eastern Central European pieces and ›international‹ Gothic objects. The identification of the heraldic motif on one vessel as that of a Wiener Neustadt alderman’s family means that at least this object and another, almost identical beaker unquestionably originated in the town.The more general interpretation of the hoard faces by many questions, but only few certainties. All things considered, the complex seems likely to have been a hoard deposited abruptly by a scrap metal dealer or a goldsmith. Perhaps the person involved wanted to hide the complex from the customs controls and therefore deposited it in a prominent position not too far from the town. This thesis seems at first sight to be contradicted by the presence of two beakers which originated in Wiener Neustadt, or which at least were manufactured for citizens of that town. The proximity of an execution site is not exclusively explained by its function as a landmark, but also refers to a protective function against unwanted investigations exuded by that tabooed place.The most substantial result of the scientific evaluation of the Wiener Neustadt treasure is probably that not only relatively ›easy‹ explanatory models for the compilation and concealment of hoards (such as a connection to pawnbroking or to anti-Semitic pogroms), but also very much more complex ownership histories relevant to the reasons for concealment have to be taken into account. Ultimately, the reason for the Deposition of the Wiener Neustadt hoard – and also for its abortive recovery – seems more likely to be a private problem for the person involved, rather than a more general crisis involving a significant part of the population. (Translation: Paul Mitchell)Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaus Hofer•  4  Medieval Archaeology, Metallurgy and Materials Engineering, Hoard finds, Medieval jewelleryBronzezeitliche Deponierungen in Europa nördlich der Alpen. Weihgaben ohne TempelSave to LibraryDownloadby Svend Hansen•  32  Prehistoric Archaeology, Gift Exchange, Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Prehistoric religion and r ritual a(Full text and illustration) The Gold Coins from CarnuntumSave to LibraryDownloadby Cristian Gazdac•  58  Ancient History, Archaeology, Classical Archaeology, Monetary EconomicsFrühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen Inventar. V. Ermland und Masuren. Funde aus Polen 2011-2013. Addenda et CorrigendaDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Band V... moreDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Band V für Ermland und Masuren. Funde aus Polen 2011-2013. Addenda et Corrigenda. 340 Seiten liefern detaillierte Listen und Beschreibungen der Schätze, Münzen und der Schmuckstücke: insgesamt 127 verzeichnete Funde, die 8.643 Objekte enthalten. Die Listen werden ergänzt durch zahlreiche Abbildungen auf 90 Tafeln. Das Buch kann bestellt werden beim IAE: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl (bookshop@iaepan.edu.pl) oder bei dem Buchladen Historische Bücher: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-851-4 PREIS: 50 PLN (ca. 17 Euro)Instytut Archeologii i Etnologii PAN prezentuje tom Inwentarzy Polskich Skarbów Wczesnośredniowiecznych, w którym zebrano znaleziska skarbów i monet z lat 500–1150, z obszaru Warmii i Mazur oraz znaleziska z Polski z lat 2011-2013 wraz z uzupełnieniami i poprawkami. Na 340 stronach znajdują się szczegółowe wykazy i opisy skarbów, monet i ozdób – łącznie zarejestrowano 127 znalezisk, zawierających 8 643 obiekty. Wykazy uzupełnione są licznymi ilustracjami na 90 tablicach. Książkę można zamawiać w IAE PAN: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl (bookshop@iaepan.edu.pl) oraz w Księgarni Historycznej: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-851-4 CENA: 50 PLNThe Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology presents the Polish Early Medieval Hoards Inventories, bringing together all the hoard and single finds (500–1150) in the area of Ermland and Masuria together with finds from Poland 2011-2013 and Addenda et Corrigenda. At 340 pages the volume provides detailed lists and descriptions of hoards, coins and ornaments – a total of 127 registered finds, containing 8 643 objects. The lists are supplemented with numerous illustrations on 90 plates. The book can be ordered from IAE PAN: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl (bookshop@iaepan.edu.pl) or Historical Bookshop: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-851-4 PRICE: 50 PLN (approx. 17 Euro)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mateusz Bogucki and +6Michał KuleszaPeter IlischPiotr  ChabrzykAdam KędzierskiRoksana  WawrzczakAndrzej Romanowski•  13  Economic History, Polish History, Numismatics, Viking Age ArchaeologyTHE BURIED TREASURE OF VOLNIKOVKA». HORSE AND RIDER OUTFIT COMPLEX First half of the V century A.D. COLLECTION CATALOGUE / ВОЛНИКОВСКИЙ «КЛАД». КОМПЛЕКС СНАРЯЖЕНИЯ КОНЯ И ВСАДНИКА 1-й ПОЛОВИНЫ V в. н. э. КАТАЛОГ КОЛЛЕКЦИИSave to LibraryDownloadby Oleg Radyush•  10  Great Migration period, Hoard finds, Barbaricum, Ancient Weapons and WarfareA Roman Coin Hoard From Barway, South of Ely, CambridgeshireThe discovery of twelve denarii found individually between 1985 and 1991 at New Fordey Farm, Barway, Soham in Cambridgeshire complements finds of aurei and denarrii at the same location reported in 1958, 1979, 1981 and 1984. The presence... moreThe discovery of twelve denarii found individually between 1985 and 1991 at New Fordey Farm, Barway, Soham in Cambridgeshire complements finds of aurei and denarrii at the same location reported in 1958, 1979, 1981 and 1984. The presence of associated pottery sherds, and progressively decreasing wear from oldest to youngest coin, identify this as a disturbed hoard of at least 451 coins (the total found to date) with a closing date of AD 180 in the reign of Commodus (AD 180–92). This paper describes the most recent finds and places them in the context of the earlier reports and what is known of Roman activity in the immediate vicinity, before considering possible reasons for their deposition.Save to LibraryDownloadby David Barrowclough•  125  History, Ancient History, European History, Economic HistoryFrühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen. Inventar: Masowien, Podlachien, MittelpolenDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Als... moreDas Institut für Archäologie und Ethnologie der Akademie der Wissenschaften veröffentlicht die neue Reihe Frühmittelalterliche Münzfunde aus Polen, in der alle Schatz- und Einzelfunde des Zeitraums 500–1150 veröffentlicht werden. Als erstes erschienen ist der Band III für Masowien, Podlachien und Mittelpolen. 700 Seiten liefern detaillierte Listen und Beschreibungen der Schätze, Münzen und der Schmuckstücke: insgesamt 220 verzeichnete Funde, die 61.434 Objekte enthalten. Die Listen werden ergänzt durch zahlreiche Abbildungen auf 152 Tafeln. Das Buch kann bestellt werden beim IAE: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl oder bei dem Buchladen Historische Bücher: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-61-8PREIS: 50 PLN (ca. 17 Euro) Instytut Archeologii i Etnologii PAN prezentuje tom Inwentarzy Polskich Skarbów Wczesnośredniowiecznych, w którym zebrano znaleziska skarbów i monet z lat 500–1150, z obszaru Mazowsza, Podlasia i Polski środkowej. Na 700 stronach znajdują się szczegółowe wykazy i opisy skarbów, monet i ozdób – łącznie zarejestrowano 220 znalezisk, zawierających 61 434 obiektów. Wykazy uzupełnione są licznymi ilustracjami na 152 tablicach. Książkę można zamawiać w IAE PAN: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl oraz w Księgarni Historycznej: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-61-8CENA: 50 PLN The Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology presents the Polish Early Medieval Hoards Inventories, bringing together all the hoard and single finds (500–1150) in the area of Masovia, Podlachia and Central Poland. At 700 pages the volume provides detailed lists and descriptions of hoards, coins and ornaments – a total of 220 registered finds, containing 61 434 objects. The lists are supplemented with numerous illustrations on 152 plates. The book can be ordered from IAE PAN: http://www.iaepan.edu.pl or Historical Bookshop: http://ksiazkihistoryczne.pl ISBN: 978-83-63760-61-8 PRICE: 50 PLN (approx. 17 Euro)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mateusz Bogucki•  20  Economic History, Polish History, Numismatics, Viking Age ArchaeologyHolger Baitinger, Sizilisch-unteritalische Funde in griechischen Heiligtümern – Ein Beitrag zu den Votivsitten in Griechenland in spätgeometrischer und archaischer Zeit. Jahrbuch des Römisch-Germanischen Zentralmuseums Mainz 60, 2013 (2015) 153-296Fremde Votivgaben prägten in starkem Maße das Erscheinungsbild bedeutender griechischer Heiligtümer. Sie bezeugen weitreichende Kontakte und die Interaktion der Griechen mit fremden Regionen und Völkerschaften der mediterranen Welt,... moreFremde Votivgaben prägten in starkem Maße das Erscheinungsbild bedeutender griechischer Heiligtümer. Sie bezeugen weitreichende Kontakte und die Interaktion der Griechen mit fremden Regionen und Völkerschaften der mediterranen Welt, obgleich die Frage nach den Stiftern und deren Motivation nach wie vor viele Fragen aufwirft. Eine besonders umfangreiche Gruppe unter den Fremdstücken stellen vorwiegend metallene Weihgaben aus Unteritalien und Sizilien dar, also aus Regionen, die ab der zweiten Hälfte des 8. Jhs. v. Chr. stark von der griechischen Kolonisationsbewegung geprägt wurden. Ihre möglichst präzise geographische und zeitliche Einordnung bildet die Voraussetzung, um Funktion und Bedeutung der Weihgaben für Stifter und Empfänger zu analysieren. Dabei zeigt es sich, dass ein großer Teil der Votive aus dem 8. und 7. Jh. v. Chr. stammt, während jüngeres Material trotz weiterhin intensiver Kontakte mit dem Westen kaum noch eine Rolle spielt. Übereinstimmungen in Formenspektrum und Erhaltungszustand der Objekte mit sizilischen Brucherzhorten lassen es denkbar erscheinen, dass zumindest ein Teil der Stücke in fragmentarischem Zustand nach Griechenland gelangte und dort aufgrund seines Materialwerts in Heiligtümern gestiftet wurde. Solche Brucherzdeponierungen lassen sich auch in sizilischen Heiligtümern wie Bitalemi bei Gela beobachten.Save to LibraryDownloadby Holger Baitinger•  6  Archaic Greece, Greek Colonization (Magna Graecia and Sicily), Greek sanctuaries, Sicilian-Greek InteractionНовейшие данные по структуре эрмитажной части Хотинского клада - 2015Save to LibraryDownloadby Kirill Tschernyschow/Кирилл Чернышов•  11  Medieval History, German History, Numismatics, Medieval tradeDas Waffendepot der frühen Eisenzeit von Tržišče nahe Dolenja vas, Cerknica, SlowenienSave to LibraryDownloadby BOŠTJAN  LAHARNAR•  7  Early Iron Age, Hoards, Hoard finds, Ancient Weapons and WarfareNextLast »Related TopicsEarly Medieval ArchaeologyFollowFollowingMedieval ArchaeologyFollowFollowingMaterial Culture StudiesFollowFollowingBronze Age metal hoardsFollowFollowingCoin HoardsFollowFollowingHoards and Ritual DepositsFollowFollowingBronze Age Europe (Archaeology)FollowFollowingLate Bronze Age archaeologyFollowFollowingCelts (Archaeology)FollowFollowingCeltic numismaticsFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023