Is there a bilingual advantage on interference-control tasks? A multiverse meta-analysis of global reaction time and interference cost
  
    
    
    
    
      
  Is there a bilingual advantage on interference-control tasks? A multiverse meta-analysis of global reaction time and interference cost
    
  
Psychon Bull Rev. 2019 Aug;26(4):1122-1147.
        doi: 10.3758/s13423-019-01567-z.
      
            Authors
          
Seamus Donnelly 
                1
               
                2
               
                3
              , Patricia J Brooks 
                4
               
                5
              , Bruce D Homer 
                4
              
            Affiliations
          
1 Research School of Psychology, The Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia. seamus.donnelly@anu.edu.au.
2 ARC Centre of Excellence for Dynamics of Language, Canberra, ACT, Australia. seamus.donnelly@anu.edu.au.
3 Developmental Psychology, The Graduate Center, CUNY, New York, NY, USA. seamus.donnelly@anu.edu.au.
4 Developmental Psychology, The Graduate Center, CUNY, New York, NY, USA.
5 Department of Psychology, College of Staten Island, CUNY, New York, NY, USA.
    
      PMID:
    
  
      30815795
    
    
      DOI:
    
  
      10.3758/s13423-019-01567-z
    
        Abstract
        
      
      
      A contentious issue in contemporary psycholinguistics is whether bilingualism enhances executive functions. Here, we report a meta-analysis of 80 studies (253 effect sizes) comparing performance of monolinguals and bilinguals on non-verbal interference-control tasks, while examining potential moderators of effects on two dependent variables (DVs): global reaction time (RT) and interference cost. We used a multiverse approach to determine how robust conclusions were to several dataset construction and analysis decisions. In our "preferred" analysis, using a broad definition of bilinguals and standard versions of interference-control tasks, there was a very small but significant bilingual advantage for global RT (g =.13), which became non-significant once corrected for publication bias. For interference cost, there was a very small but significant bilingual advantage (g =.11). Effects were not significantly moderated by task or participant age, but were moderated by an interaction between age of second language acquisition (AoA) and the DV. Unexpectedly, larger effect sizes for interference cost were observed for studies involving bilinguals with late as opposed to early AoA. The multiverse analysis produced results largely consistent with the preferred analysis, confirming our conclusion that evidence for a bilingual advantage on interference-control tasks is weak.
    
          Keywords:
        
      
      Cognitive and attentional control; Language comprehension.
    
        Publication types
      
                
                  
  Meta-Analysis
                
              
                
                  
  Review
                
              
        MeSH terms
      
                  
                    
  Age Factors
                  
                
                  
                    
  Attention
                  
                
                  
                    
  Cognition
                  
                
                  
                    
  Executive Function*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Humans
                  
                
                  
                    
  Models, Psychological
                  
                
                  
                    
  Models, Statistical
                  
                
                  
                    
  Multilingualism*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Neuropsychological Tests
                  
                
                  
                    
  Psycholinguistics*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Reaction Time*
                  
                