New grants available from the Wikimedia Foundation for individual Wikimedians – Diff
 
Skip to content
 
Diff
Categories
Equity & Inclusion
Education & Open Access
Technology
Partnerships & Events
Policy & Advocacy
Movement Strategy
About
Submit
Calendar
Wikimania 2023
 
Choose a language
English
Search 
New grants available from the Wikimedia Foundation for individual Wikimedians 
17 January 2013 by Siko Bouterse 
Translate This Post
This week the Wikimedia Foundation launched a new grantmaking program called Individual Engagement Grants. These grants support individual Wikimedians or small teams to complete projects that benefit the Wikimedia movement, lead to online impact, and serve our mission, community and strategic priorities.
In recent years, the Wikimedia Foundation has been expanding its grantmaking activities. We want to ensure that the donations made by people who rely on Wikipedia for information serve the Wikimedia movement wherever it is most needed. Most of the grants we’ve made to this point have gone to organizations – Wikimedia chapters around the world, or smaller groups hosting workshops or running editing contests and so forth – and we’ll be continuing to grow our capacity to support these organizations in the future.
But much of Wikipedia and its sister sites run off of the amazing work that volunteers do individually. Thousands of people sit at their computers each day, writing articles, fighting vandalism, teaching new editors how to get started, organizing features for the main page, resolving disputes, answering emails from readers and more. These individuals make Wikipedia work, and many of them have ideas for innovative new projects that can make Wikipedia work even better. Many of these ideas can be and are accomplished by volunteers alone – volunteerism is, after all, the wonderful core of Wikimedia’s sites. But sometimes funding for time and expenses is needed to get an initiative up and running, and this is where Individual Engagement Grants can help. These grants are intended for projects that go beyond content contribution to innovate something that benefits the community and when funding is needed to to turn good ideas into action.
We’re accepting a first round of proposals for Individual Engagement Grants from now until February 15th. We’re also seeking volunteers to serve on a committee to help select the first round of grantees. You can get involved by sharing a project idea, submitting a proposal, or joining the committee – we’re looking forward to having your participation and to announcing the first Individual Engagement grantees in March!
Siko Bouterse, Head of Individual Engagement Grants, Wikimedia Foundation
Archive notice: This is an archived post from blog.wikimedia.org, which operated under different editorial and content guidelines than Diff.
 
Can you help us translate this article?
In order for this article to reach as many people as possible we would like your help. Can you translate this article to get the message out?
Start translation
Related
 
2 Comments                    
 Inline Feedbacks
View all comments
 

    Netizen Report: Game Over Edition - Global Voices Advocacy

    10 years ago
#19253
[…] Things The Wikimedia Foundation has launched a new program to offer grants to “support individual Wikimedians or small teams to complete projects that […]
0

    Netizen Report: Game Over Edition |

    10 years ago
#19254
[…] Things The Wikimedia Foundation has launched a new module to offer grants to “support particular Wikimedians or tiny teams to finish projects that advantage […]
0
 
Meta
Posted in Community, Global, GrantsTagged Individual Engagement Grants, Wikimedia Blog (EN Archive) 
Related
 
Welcome to Diff
Welcome to Diff, a community blog by – and for – the Wikimedia movement. Join Diff today to share stories from your community and comment on articles. We want to hear your voice!
Learn more
Subscribe to Diff via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to Diff and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
 
Upcoming Events
Sep
15
15 September @ 10:00 - 17 September @ 17:00  UTC  
Wikimedia CEE Meeting 2023
Organizer: 
Wikimedia Georgia
Oct
6
15:00 - 16:00  UTC  
Event Series
Let’s Connect Connectathon
Organizer: 
Let's Connect working group
Oct
20
20 October @ 03:30 - 22 October @ 10:30  UTC  
WikiWomenCamp 2023
Organizer: 
Chinmayee Mishra & Manavpreet Kaur
View Calendar
Wikimedia News
Wikimedia Foundation News
Wikimania 2023 in Singapore centers on diversity, collaboration, and the future of free knowledge10 August 2023 by Wikimedia Foundation
Wikimedia Technology Blog
Flame graphs arrive in WikimediaDebug8 June 2023 by Timo Tijhof
Down the Rabbit Hole
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI12 July 2023 by Selena Deckelmann
 
Diff This is Diff, a Wikimedia community blog.
All participants are responsible for building a place that is welcoming and friendly to everyone. Learn more about Diff.
A Wikimedia Foundation Project
Links 
Join
Subscribe
Guidelines
Editorial guidelines
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Log in
Content licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 (CC-BY-SA) unless otherwise noted.
Powered by WordPress.com VIP, Automattic Privacy Notice. 
wpDiscuzInsert 
  Report this comment
This comment is spam 
This comment is a violation of the Code of Conduct 
Other 
Send
You are going to send email to SendMove CommentMove