TIMEasia Magazine: Malaysia - Archives
109 captures
08 Feb 2004 - 09 Jul 2023
Jun
MAR
Aug
17
2008
2009
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20090317235536/http://www.time.com:80/time/asia/2003/mahathir/mahathir961209.html
 Regime Change
After 22 years in power, Mahathir Mohamad is stepping down. Can Malaysia thrive without him?
 Viewpoint: The Last of the Strongmen
Even with Mahathir gone, Asian authoritarianism is alive and kicking
 The Doctor is Out
As Dr. Mahathir Mohamad prepares to resign as Malaysia's Prime Minister, TIME takes a look at the nation he leaves behind
 "How Dare You Say These Things!"
Mahathir discusses Malaysia's economic crisis
June 15, 1998
 "I Have Always Been in a Hurry"
Mahathir on race, the West and his successor
December 9, 1996
Malaysia Without Anwar
Dr. M. battles protesters and his own deputy
[10/05/1998] 
I'll Do it My Way
Without Anwar or the global economy, Mahathir goes it alone
[09/14/1998] 
 Mahathir Mohamad
Asian Newsmaker of the Year
December 28, 1998
 Heir Today, Gone...
Anwar Ibrahim risks a dangerous showdown with his boss
August 24, 1998
 Broken Dreams
Malaysia slips into recession as Mahathir blames everyone—except himself
June 15, 1998
 Bound for Glory
Mahathir Mohamad leaves his mark on Malaysia
December 9, 1996
 A Day in the Life of Dr. M
A blur of essays, time clocks and Sinatra
December 9, 1996
 Metropolis of Dreams
Kuala Lumpur too crowded? Just build a new capital
December 4, 1995
 The Stubborn Holdout
Mahathir crusades for an Asians-only regional grouping
November 22, 1993
 A 'Nice Man' Finishes First
The Prime Minister beats the odds against a serious challenge
November 5, 1990
 A Working Racial Bias
For years, the rules favored Malays. Should they continue?
August 20, 1990
E-mail your letter to the editor
 
Bound for Glory
                       He's obsessed with control and quick to bash the West, but Mahathir Mohamad has left his mark on Malaysia
 
By Anthony Spaeth
Originally published December 9, 1996
It's a simple pocket notebook: buff-colored, 5 cm x 8 cm,
spiral-bound at the top. Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir bin
Mohamad goes nowhere without it. On trips abroad, he notes
things that Malaysia might emulate, such as smooth traffic flows
or how foreign supermarkets display their wares. Back home, the
politician who was trained as a physician wields his notebook as
an ongoing prescription pad for Malaysia's ills, even
identifying the tropical foliage that needs trimming along the
route to his office. And at Wednesday morning cabinet meetings,
the first order of business is always the same: each of
Mahathir's 23 ministers reaches into his own jacket pocket to
extract an identical notebook—a management tool decreed
mandatory by the anything-but-reticent prime minister.
If there's a key to Malaysia's extraordinary transformation from
sleepy backwater to modern, prosperous nationhood, it can
probably be found in the notebook collection of Dr.
Mahathir—and what a story their pages would tell. When Mahathir
began his term in 1981, his resource-rich land had an assuredly
comfortable future thanks to oil and gas reserves, tin and
rubber, but it was hardly destined for a conspicuous spot on the
skyline of the East Asian economic miracle. Today, following
eight continuous years of 8% economic expansion—only China has
grown faster—there is hardly any unemployment in a land of 20
million people. Manufactured goods such as microchips and
semiconductors, not materials dug from the ground or piped from
the sea, account for 80% of its exports.
As to that spot on the skyline, Mahathir is raising his
country's profile singlehandedly—his preferred governing style.
When the state oil company's twin Petronas Towers are completed
in 1997, Kuala Lumpur will have the world's tallest buildings, 7
meters higher than Chicago's Sears Tower. Along the banks of the
capital's muddy Klang River, a Mahathir-backed tycoon is
building what is described as a $4 billion "Linear City," which
will contain a 2-km long structure said to be the lengthiest
building on earth. Prosperity has clogged K.L., as the capital
is known, so Mahathir is spending $8.1 billion to create a new
one, Putrajaya, 25 km to the south. That will become part of yet
another prime ministerial megavision: the "Multimedia Super
Corridor," an investment zone for computer and information
industries that Mahathir is creating to move Malaysia up the
technological ladder. He has already lured one major player away
from neighbor Singapore: Bill Gates has promised to put
Microsoft's Asia headquarters there. "Mahathir thinks in terms
of decades," says M. Shanmughalingam, a Harvard-trained
economist who worked in the Mahathir government for years.
"That's what sets him apart among other politicians."
With the exception of Singapore's largely retired Lee Kuan Yew
and China's indisposed Deng Xiaoping, Asia has no leader with
Mahathir's determination and drive—some call it hubris—or such
a remarkable record. The jungle kampong where nothing much
happened, the essence of Malay existence for centuries, has
nearly slid into folk memory. Today half of all Malaysians live
in cities. Per capita income is about $3,900 a year, almost
double the level just six years ago. And the national aspiration
is no longer a plot of farmland and an ox but an apartment in
K.L. and a new, Malaysian-built Proton sedan.
Nearly three decades after hundreds of Malaysians were killed in
racial rioting, the multi-ethnic country has never seemed as
integrated as during his era. Nelson Mandela, a close Mahathir
friend, plans to visit in February to study the country's
25-year-old affirmative action program. That experiment has
buoyed the fortunes of native Malays and tribal groups, who
comprise a slim majority of the population (62%), without
inflaming the minority Chinese (27%) and Indians (8%). Other
countries are studying Malaysia's handling of such potentially
divisive issues as economic reform and Islamic fundamentalism,
including France, Argentina, Kazakhstan, Cambodia and the Czech
Republic. Says Maite Mohale, South Africa's ambassador to Kuala
Lumpur: "There are lessons to be learned here."
Not all are salutary. Mahathir's ambitions are both lofty and
costly: his edifice complex alone will cost the government
billions and could bring on a recession. Some of his projects,
notably the giant Bakun dam in Sarawak, are fiercely criticized
by environmentalists. Political and economic power has become
alarmingly centralized under the youthful-looking Mahathir, who
turns 71 this month, and many of the benefits of his
superschemes have been enjoyed by cronies. "Mahathir has given
good leadership," says Param Cumaraswamy, former president of
the Malaysian Bar Association, "but he controls everything."
To consolidate his power in the mid-1980s, Mahathir showed a
vast disdain for such notions as freedom of speech and judicial
review of executive actions. In 1988, he ended the independence
of the country's British-style judiciary by deftly amending the
constitution. He enjoys throwing wrenches into international
economic conferences and champions trade groupings that exclude
western countries. And he relishes his self-appointed role as
defender of developing nations against the bullying West. The
environmental movement, according to Mahathir, is a
neocolonialist plot against countries with forests to chop down.
The international press is almost beneath his contempt: last
week he branded Australian journalists who  covered Malaysia
"congenital liars," prompted by those who dared to report that a
mob of Mahathir supporters had disrupted a conference in Kuala
Lumpur on independence for East Timor. Malaysia had opposed the
meeting as a threat to its relations with Indonesia.
Mahathir is unapologetic for his insistence on doing everything
his way. Although he acknowledges that he will be succeeded by
deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim, 49, he doesn't say when.
Which means Mahathir will continue lambasting the West and
lashing his ministers onward for the foreseeable future . "He is
the most inquisitive person I have ever known," attests Kenichi
Ohmae, the Japanese management guru who has advised Mahathir on
industrial policy since 1982. Ohmae recalls visiting an arid
part of eastern Malaysia with the Prime Minister, who wanted to
boost its vegetable and fruit production. "He turned to me,"
says Ohmae, "and asked, 'Can you find out how to make rain?'"
On Sept. 8, 1994, the Prime Minister cut the ribbon on an 848-km
national highway linking the southern city of Johor Bahru to the
Thai border. Malaysians from almost anywhere on the peninsula
can now take 110-kph day trips to the capital to see their
rising monuments to modernity. But a national highway in
Malaysia is more than a road: it's a historic unification of a
country that, from its inception, was a dangerously scattered
hodge podge. Malaya, as it was once called, began as a
collection of coastal trading ports, each controlled by a sultan
and separated from each other by the peninsula's interior
jungles and mountainous spine. Colonization by Portugal, Holland
and Britain coincided with mass immigration of Chinese labor to
work the tin mines and, later, Indians for the British rubber
plantations. Malaya gained independence in 1957 and six years
later changed its borders by inviting Singapore and the northern
Borneo provinces of Sabah and Sarawak to join.
Thus was Malaysia born—the added "si" was in honor of
Singapore, Sabah and Sarawak—with shifting borders, provinces
scattered across the sea, and, most importantly, a great ethnic
divide. (Singapore was ejected from the federation in 1965 for
threatening Malay politicians' grip on power). Britain
maintained that independent Malaysia was the homeland of the
Malays, but they barely comprised a majority of the population;
from the start, Malay politicians needed cooperation from
Chinese and Indian parties to form a government. Malays could
never be confident they would remain masters of their own land.
And from independence, they existed at the outer fringes of the
Chinese-monopolized spheres of business and commerce. In 1969,
after a strong showing in a general election, members of a
Chinese political party held a victory parade in Kuala Lumpur
and ethnic disgruntlement flared into violence. Malay-Chinese
riots went on for four days, and more than 300 people died. For
the gentle, accommodating Malaysians, the incident remains a
major national trauma. "I saw how the Malays hacked the
Chinese," recalls Zainuddin Maidin, a journalist who covered the
riots. "I don't want to see it again."
There was much soul searching afterward, and one tract became
famous, written by a 45-year-old physician. "The Malay dilemma,"
he wrote, "is whether they should stop trying to help themselves
in order that they should be proud to be the poor citizens of a
prosperous country or whether they should try to get at some of
the riches that this country boasts of, even if it blurs the
economic picture of Malaysia a little." The author was Mahathir,
a teacher's son who grew up in a small house on stilts in Kedah
state, studied medicine in Singapore and was one of the earliest
members of the United Malays National Organization (UMNO), the
ruling political party. After the Kuala Lumpur riots, Mahathir
accused founding prime minister Tunku Abdul Rahman of being
pro-Chinese and was expelled from UMNO. He went back to medicine
and wrote The Malay Dilemma, which was banned for, among other
reasons, its assertion that genetic factors had made the Malays
less dynamic than their Chinese counterparts.
Rahman's successor, Abdul Razak, brought the firebrand physician
back into the party in 1972 and two years later gave him the
important post of Education Minister. In 1981, Mahathir gained
control of UMNO and became prime minister, as well as the
stiffest of new brooms. He ordered civil servants to report to
work at 8 a.m., cancelled morning tea breaks and installed time
clocks. The rules apply to all: each morning and evening, the
Prime Minister punches in and out of the office.
Mahathir inherited the New Economic Policy, the post-1969
governmental solution to the Malays' dilemma. It was a
comprehensive affirmative action program, with quotas on
university admission, bank lending and equity ownership in
companies, and was designed to give a permanent economic lift to
bumiputras, literally "sons of the soil." That classification
included Malays as well as the non-Malay indigenous tribes on
Sabah and Sarawak and the peninsula; it excluded the Chinese and
Indian populations.
Mahathir backed the program, but a 1985 recession and a steep
decline in his government's popularity forced him into some
fresh economic thinking. First he toned down his plan to create
a "Malaysia Inc." on the Japanese model, an ambition that had
earlier inspired the decision to build a "national car," the
Proton. He eagerly started courting foreign investment. Then he
turned to adviser Daim Zainuddin, who was then finance minister,
for a way to get Malaysia out of its economic hole. "I looked at
the U.S. in 1929," Daim told TIME. "What they did was build
highways. We had excess cement, 60,000 Malay graduates looking
for work, and we had a car industry producing cars no one
wanted." The idea for the North-South Highway was born. "That
highway," Daim says, "was the biggest single factor in turning
the country around."
Energized, Mahathir and Daim decided that the quotas and
regulations of the NEP were insufficient to erect a Malay
business community, so the twosome decided to do the job on
their own. They identified up-and-comers and showered them with
financing and government contracts. "We said: 'We'll give you
opportunity and back you all the way. If you fail, don't come
back,'"  says Daim. Fortunes were earned by those annointees of
"Mahathir Inc.," and a new bumiputra business elite was created.
At the same time, billions were squandered. In 1982, the
government-controlled Bank Bumiputra lost an estimated $900
million through profligate lending to the Carrian group, a
high-flying, fast-crashing Hong Kong real estate outfit. In
1988, Mahathir sent close adviser Eric Chia to straighten out a
troubled government attempt at building a steel industry. This
year, Perwaja Steel was declared insolvent with $2.75 billion in
bad debts, and the Finance Ministry described management
irregularities during Chia's tenure, including an alleged
payment of $27 million to a company that didn't exist. But once
honored with Mahathir's favor, few lose it completely. No one
has ever been prosecuted by Malaysia for the Bank Bumiputra
losses. Chia has dropped from public sight, and no charges have
been filed against him. "Out of eight ideas, Mahathir accepts
that three or four will fail," says another recipient of
patronage from the top, Rashid Hussain, who controls DCB
Holdings, one of the country's top brokerage house-banking
empires. "But if the other four or five get off the ground, he's
done his job."
Economists think so: many now describe Malaysia as a
manufacturing economy on its way to a high-tech future, an
unimaginable destiny just a decade ago. Donald Snodgrass, an
American development economist at Harvard University, says
Malaysia is just about the only ethnically diverse country to
make that transition. "What is clear is that they have managed
broad-based growth," he says, "And everybody benefitted. That's
rare in any society." In Kedah state, traditionally one of
Malaysia's poorest, there are now jobs galore. "If the young
ones don't want to work in the fields," relates Salleh Noh, 46,
a tenant farmer, "there are plenty of factory jobs." S.
Gunarsingham, a Malaysian Indian who bought a taxi three months
ago, agrees. "If you study hard and work hard," he says,
"there's no problem."
Officially, the government claims success for the NEP, which was
replaced in 1991 by a less ambitious program called the New
Development Policy. Bumiputras own 20.6% of the equity of public
companies, compared to about 2% in 1970, and the number of
bumiputra professionals has increased five times since 1970.
Those conclusions are disputed: many Chinese quietly control
businesses behind equity-holding Malay front-men, the Indian
community remains largely impoverished and statistics take no
account of Malaysians of Chinese descent who chose to leave to
avoid official discrimination. But there is a general consensus
both inside Malaysia and abroad that the program has worked.
"The way the Malaysians have handled their diversity is
intriguing," says U.S. Ambassador John Malott, "because it's
successful."
In today's Malaysia, the ethnic anxieties of the post-1969
period seem distant. Mixed marriages are steeply on the rise,
and some 60,000 Malay students currently attend Chinese language
schools. "We've begun to look at ourselves as a unified
Malaysia," says Michael Yeoh, head of the Asian Strategy and
Leadership Institute, a Kuala Lumpur-based think tank. Agrees
Ahmad Rahim, a Malay truck driver: "We need each other to do
business. We get along fine now." Mahathir's verdict: "What
we've been able to achieve is not racial harmony but racial
stability."
One wheel of progress that seems permanently welded to its axle,
however, is social freedom. Malaysia's statute book is about as
unyielding as China's: gatherings of four or more citizens must
register with the police, individuals deemed a threat to
national security can be detained without trial for two years.
Mahathir, who once questioned those social shackles, turned
draconian when his political career was threatened in the
mid-1980s. Courts started questioning the validity of his ruling
party election victory in 1987, and the supreme court declared
UMNO an illegal organization. Simultaneously, financial dealings
of the Prime Minister and the former Finance Minister were
questioned in the international press and on the local
grapevine. Mahathir's reaction was to stiffen the already
oppressive Official Secrets Act and to arrest 104 academics,
politicians and lawyers for allegedly threatening national
security. To quell the troublesome judges, Mahathir pushed
through a constitutional amendment that put the formerly
independent judiciary under parliament's control. Says Chandra
Muzaffar, one of the 104 detainees who was held for 52 days:
"Malaysia has never recovered from that day." Investigative
journalism, a profession with potential in a land where
government bolsters businessmen and the ruling party itself
controls billions of dollars in assets through proxy companies
and individuals, is virtually a crime. Mahathir's stiffened
Official Secrets Act dictates a mandatory jail sentence for
anyone receiving classified material, which describes most
government documents.
Giving Malaysians the social freedoms expected by a modern,
prospering people is just about the only ambition Mahathir has
kept out of his notebooks. Some citizens wonder whether his goal
of creating a civilized, technocratic nation can be reached as
long as the press is muzzled, critics are cowed by security acts
dating back to colonial times and the judiciary must answer to
politicians. "If we are to achieve a civil society, we must
first fully democratize all aspects of public life," says Lim
Guan Eng, an opposition M.P. currently on trial for sedition.
He's in legal trouble for publicly questioning the way the
government handled corruption and statutory rape charges against
one of the prime minister's political allies. "Otherwise," says
Lim "we will only create a society of carpetbaggers."
That task may eventually be taken up by Anwar, Mahathir's  more
liberal-minded successor-to-be, who has said he wants to amend
the internal security laws and free the press from political
harassment. Forsaking democratic freedoms for growth will
certainly tarnish Mahathir's reputation, but his hubris-fueled
successes are likely to ensure a favorable spot in history. In
1986, he decided that a neglected island called Langkawi,
allegedly under an ancient curse, could be made into a tourist
resort; characteristically, he planned many of the architectural
features and interior designs. Last year Langkawi drew about 2
million visitors, nearly the same number of tourists who visited
India. "If I thought much about what other people will think
about me, there are things I wouldn't do," says the Prime
Minister. "Sometimes I make decisions which I know people don't
like, but I have to. I really don't care what people think about
me." Only that they pay attention. 
—Reported by John Colmey/Kuala Lumpur
Mahathir's Exit Strategy [July 05, 2002] 
If Malaysia's Prime Minister does step down as planned, the era of the Asian strongman will end
It's My Party... [June 26, 2002] 
Malaysian PM resigns, breaks down, and is re-installed in a bizarre televised address
Malaysia's Chosen One [June 21, 2002] 
Syed Mokhtar al-Bukhary has become a leading tycoon. Is it because of his friendship with Malaysia's Prime Minister?
Just What Dr. M Ordered [October 22, 2001] 
The war against terror yields unexpected benefits for the Malaysian Prime Minister—at home and abroad
Malaysia Under Mahathir [July 17, 2001] 
TIME's Simon Elegant on the 20-year rule of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad
More Related Items  |  Search all issues of TIME Magazine
Table of Contents
 Subscribe to TIME
ADVERTISEMENT
QUICK LINKS: Main Story | Viewpoint | Back to TIMEasia.com Home
FROM THE OCTOBER 20, 2003 ISSUE OF TIME MAGAZINE; POSTED MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003
Copyright © 2006 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
Subscribe to TIME | 
Customer Service | 
FAQ | 
About TIME Asia |
Search | 
Write to Us | 
Privacy Policy | 
Terms & Conditions | 
Press Releases | 
Media Kit