Port Cities:  - Culture and Ethnicity Differences in Liverpool - Chinese Community
95 captures
14 Nov 2004 - 09 Jul 2023
Jan
JUL
Apr
24
2007
2009
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2009
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20090724204513/http://www.mersey-gateway.org:80/server.php?show=ConWebDoc.1369
59 Rodney Street
E. Chambré Hardman Archive
National Trust
You are here:  
Text only About this Site Feedback Help 
Explore this site
Biography
Hardman's Work
Margaret Hardman
The Project
About this Site
The Chambré Hardman Trust
Culture and Ethnicity Differences in Liverpool - Chinese Community
There is the breathtaking Chinese gate, which acts as a symbol of our relationship with the East and our willingness to embrace their culture.  Many large British cities boast substantial Chinese communities, but Liverpool has one of the largest and certainly the oldest Chinese community in Europe.  Many of the original Chinese settlers arrived here as seamen.  This is because during the nineteenth century the Blue Funnel Shipping Line traded heavily with the Far East.  Liverpool, being a major shipping and trading port, received a large proportion of this trade and as a result many of the Chinese seamen who travelled here also settled here.
The Centre of the giant urban sprawl that is Chinatown is situated in the area around Nelson Street.  This in many ways acts as the centre of the community hosting many of the famous Chinese New Year celebrations. Events that take place during these celebrations include dragon dances, a fairground, orchestras, Tai Chi demonstrations and much more.  The New Year celebrations affect the whole of Chinatown with the entire community decorating their homes and businesses with flowers and decorations especially for the occasion.  There are also a number of parades involving many locals being dressed in mythical costumes of dragons and lions.
Search
Search Tips
Advanced Search
Find out more
Indian Community in Liverpool
African and Caribbean Communities in Liverpool
European Community in Liverpool
 
Legal & Copyright
 
About this Site
Feedback
Text only