United Kingdom - Wikiquote
United Kingdom
From Wikiquote
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Map of the United Kingdom
Britain is a complex harmony, not a male voice choir. ~ David Cameron
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (UK), commonly known as the United Kingdom (UK) or Britain, is a sovereign country in north-western Europe, off the north-western coast of the European mainland. The United Kingdom includes the island of Great Britain, the north-eastern part of the island of Ireland, and many smaller islands within the British Isles. Northern Ireland shares a land border with the Republic of Ireland. The United Kingdom consists of four countries: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The capital is London, a global city and financial centre with an urban area population of 10.3 million. The national language of the United Kingdom is English.
Quotes[edit]
If Great Britain were defeated in war I hoped we should find a Hitler to lead us back to our rightful position among the nations. ~ Winston Churchill
Dear land of hope, thy hope is crowned! God make thee mightier yet! ~ Arthur Benson
Land of hope and glory, mother of the free! How shall we extol thee, who are born of thee? God, who made thee mighty? Make thee mightier yet. ~ Arthur Christopher Benson
Great Britain is a republic with a hereditary president. ~ The Knoxville Journal
When Britain first, at heaven's command. Arose from out of the azure main! This was the charter of the land. ~ James Thomson
In today's Britain, the idea that there could be a Constitution more powerful than any crowned head or elected politician is thought of as a breathtakingly new and daring idea. ~ Christopher Hitchens
Five generations ago, Britain was ashamed to write books in her own tongue. Now her language is spoken in all quarters of the globe. ~ Frederick Douglass
Britain still thinks it's 1999. ~ Irwin M. Stelzer
To cure the British disease with socialism was like trying to cure leukaemia with leeches. ~ Margaret Thatcher
Some talk of Alexander, and some of Hercules. Of Hector and Lysander, and such great names as these. But of all the world's great heroes, there's none that can compare with the tow-row-row-row-row-row of the British grenadiers! ~ "The British Grenadiers"
But where says some is the King of America? I'll tell you Friend, he reigns above, and doth not make havoc of mankind like the Royal Brute of Britain. ~ Thomas Paine
A British vessel, stopping on the way back from India at the Comoro Islands in the Mozambique Channel, finds the native inhabitants in revolt against their Arab masters; and when they ask why they have taken arms, are told, "America is free, could not we be?" ~ Gijsbert Karel, Count van Hogendorp
Dear land of hope, thy hope is crowned! God make thee mightier yet... By truth maintained, thine empire shall be strong... Land of hope and glory, mother of the free! How shall we extol thee, who are born of thee? God, who made thee mighty? Make thee mightier yet.
Arthur Benson, "Land of Hope and Glory" (1902)
These are some of the first principles of natural law & Justice, and the great Barriers of all free states, and of the British Constitution in particular. It is utterly irreconcilable to these principles, and to many other fundamental maxims of the common law, common sense and reason, that a British house of commons, should have a right, at pleasure, to give and grant the property of the Colonists. That these Colonists are well entitled to all the essential rights, liberties and privileges of men and freemen, born in Britain, is manifest, not only from the Colony charter, in general, but acts of the British Parliament.... Had the Colonists a right to return members to the British parliament, it would only be hurtful; as from their local situation and circumstances it is impossible they should be ever truly and properly represented there. The inhabitants of this country in all probability in a few years will be more numerous, than those of Great Britain and Ireland together; yet it is absurdly expected by the promoters of the present measures, that these, with their posterity to all generations, should be easy while their property shall be disposed of by a house of commons at three thousand miles distant from them...
Town of Boston, The Rights of the Colonists (20 November 1772)
The twentieth century saw Britain having to redefine its place in the world. At the beginning of the century, it commanded a world-wide empire as the foremost global power. Two world wars and the end of empire diminished its role, but the UK remains an economic and military power, with considerable political and cultural influence around the world. Britain was the world's first industrialized country. Its economy remains one of the largest, but it has for many years been based on service industries rather than on manufacturing.
British Broadcasting Corporation, "United Kingdom country profile: Overview" (14 May 2015), BBC News, United Kingdom
Some talk of Alexander, and some of Hercules. Of Hector and Lysander, and such great names as these. But of all the world's great heroes, there's none that can compare with the tow-row-row-row-row-row of the British grenadiers!
"The British Grenadiers" (1750)
Britain is blessed with a functioning political culture. It is dominated by people who live in London and who have often known each other since prep school. This makes it gossipy and often incestuous.
David Brooks, "Britain Is Working" (23 May 2011), The New York Times, New York City, New York
I am constantly filled with admiration at this – at the way you can wander through a town like Oxford and in the space of a few hundred yards pass the home of Christopher Wren, the buildings where Halley found his comet and Boyle his first law, the track where Roger Banister ran the first sub-four minute mile, the meadow where Lewis Carroll strolled; or how you can stand on Snow's Hill at Windsor and see, in a single sweep, Windsor Castle, the playing fields of Eton, the churchyard where Gray wrote his 'Elegy,' the site The Merry Wives of Windsor was first performed. Can there anywhere on earth be, in such a modest span, a landscape more packed with centuries of busy, productive attainment?
Bill Bryson, as quoted in Notes from a Small Island
The sound of modern Britain is a complex harmony, not a male voice choir.
David Cameron, speech aimed at Liberal Democrats: join me in my mission (16 December 2005)
I want to help try and build a more responsible society here in Britain, one where we don't just ask what are my entitlements but what are my responsibilities, one where we don't ask what am I just owed but more what can I give, and a guide for that society that those that can should and those who can't we will always help.
David Cameron, first speech as Prime Minister, at 10 Downing Street (11 May 2010)
Britain is a special country. We have so many great advantages: a parliamentary democracy where we resolve great issues about our future through peaceful debate; a great trading nation with our science and arts, our engineering and our creativity, respected the world over. And while we are not perfect, I do believe we can be a model of a multiracial, multifaith democracy where people can come and make a contribution, and rise to the very highest that their talent allows.
David Cameron, Resignation Speech, 24 June 2016
I have always said that if Great Britain were defeated in war I hoped we should find a Hitler to lead us back to our rightful position among the nations. I am sorry, however, that he has not been mellowed by the great success that has attended him. The whole world would rejoice to see the Hitler of peace and tolerance, and nothing would adorn his name in world history so much as acts of magnanimity and of mercy and of pity to the forlorn and friendless, to the weak and poor. ... Let this great man search his own heart and conscience before he accuses anyone of being a warmonger.
Winston Churchill, "Mr. Churchill's Reply" in The Times (7 November 1938)
Britain and France had to choose between war and dishonour. They chose dishonour. They will have war.
Winston Churchill, to Neville Chamberlain in the House of Commons, after the Munich accords (1938)
We shall not flag or fail. We shall go on to the end, we shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air, we shall defend our Island, whatever the cost may be, we shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender, and even if, which I do not for a moment believe, this Island or a large part of it were subjugated and starving, then our Empire beyond the seas, armed and guarded by the British Fleet, would carry on the struggle, until, in God's good time, the New World, with all its power and might, steps forth to the rescue and the liberation of the Old.
Winston Churchill, speech in the House of Commons (4 June 1940)
When I warned them that Britain would fight on alone whatever they did, their generals told their Prime Minister and his divided Cabinet, 'In three weeks England will have her neck wrung like a chicken'. Some chicken! Some neck!
Winston Churchill, speech to the Canadian Parliament in Ottawa (30 December 1941), as quoted in The Yale Book of Quotations, by Fred R. Shapiro, Yale University Press (2006), p. 153
British democracy approves the principles of movable party heads and unwaggable national tails.
Winston Churchill, address to a joint session of Congress, Washington, D.C. (17 January 1952); reported in Winston S. Churchill: His Complete Speeches, 1897–1963, ed. Robert Rhodes James (1974), vol. 8, p. 8,326
...the twelve or fifteen millions in the British Empire, who, while they possess no electoral rights, are yet persuaded they are freemen, and who are mystified into the notion that they are not political bondmen, by that great juggle of the ‘English Constitution’—a thing of monopolies, and Church-craft, and sinecures, armorial hocus-pocus, primogeniture, and pageantry!
Richard Cobden, letter to F. Cobden (11 September 1838), quoted in John Morley, The Life of Richard Cobden (London: T. Fisher Unwin, 1905), p. 130
The British Commonwealth, which used to cover the globe as colonies, now covers the globe as independent countries. We have a large population from the Commonwealth countries: from South Africa, from various states in east and west Africa, from all the states of the West Indies, a few from North and South America, and from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. We gave Hong Kong back to the Chinese, but people come from Hong Kong to Britain just as they have always done. There is a large grouping of people from all over the world in Britain. In some towns, you would think you were in India. Every shop, every restaurant, is Indian, and it is much more colourful. It is a completely different atmosphere from the town next door, which is as British as they come. This is a deliberate mixing of peoples of the world together, but not fusing or blending, being themselves, Indian, Pakistani, African, not isolated, but living together in clear separate groups, with their own religions, their own traditions, setting up shops, cafés and restaurants, and living in harmony. It is not pure harmony at the moment. The aim is that all of these representatives of a large part of the world should live together, learn to live together, in harmony. That is where Maitreya is, so it is easier perhaps for that to occur. p 65-66
Benjamin Creme,  The World Teacher for All Humanity   (2007)
The US President said that US freedom was being threatened by a little state called Iraq. It had no weapons of mass destruction... The whole thing is absurd.... Believing that Iraq was a threat to America is believing in a nonsense. For Mr Blair to persuade the British people and about one-third of his own party that Britain was threatened by Iraq is again a complete, utter nonsense. It is just not true.  p. 73
Benjamin Creme,  The World Teacher for All Humanity   (2007)
I want to take the opportunity to thank the countless numbers of people here in the UK, including the many then-exiled members of the ANC and the South African Communist Party, who built a powerful and exemplary antiapartheid movement in this country. Having traveled here on numerous occasions during the 1970s and the 1980s to participate in antiapartheid events, I thank the women and men who were as unwavering in their commitment to freedom as was Nelson Mandela. Participation in such solidarity movements here in the UK was as central to my own political formation as were the movements that saved my life.
Angela Davis December 13 2013 speech included in Freedom Is a Constant Struggle: Ferguson, Palestine, and the Foundations of a Movement (2015)
Look at England, whose mighty power is now felt, and for centuries has been felt, all around the world. It is worthy of special remark, that precisely those parts of that proud island which have received the largest and most diversified populations, are to day the parts most distinguished for industry, enterprise, invention and general enlightenment. In Wales, and in the Highlands of Scotland the boast is made of their pure blood, and that they were never conquered, but no man can contemplate them without wishing they had been conquered. They are far in the rear of every other part of the English realm in all the comforts and conveniences of life, as well as in mental and physical development. Neither law nor learning descends to us from the mountains of Wales or from the Highlands of Scotland. The ancient Briton, whom Julius Caesar would not have as a slave, is not to be compared with the round, burly, amplitudinous Englishman in many of his qualities of desirable manhood.
Frederick Douglass, "Our Composite Nationality" (7 December 1869), Boston, Massachusetts
Five generations ago, Britain was ashamed to write books in her own tongue. Now her language is spoken in all quarters of the globe.
Frederick Douglass, "Self-Made Men" (1872)
The British monarchy inculcates unthinking credulity and servility. It forms a heavy layer on the general encrustation of our unreformed political institutions. It is the gilded peg from which our unlovely system of social distinction and hierarchy depends. It is an obstacle to the objective public discussion of our own history. It tribalises politics. It entrenches the absurdity of the hereditary principle. It contributes to what sometimes looks like an enfeeblement of the national intelligence, drawing from our press and even from some of our poets the sort of degrading and abnegating propaganda that would arouse contempt if displayed in Zaire or Romania. It is, in short, neither dignified nor efficient...The United States, for example, has never had a President as bad as George III, but neither has Britain had a king as admirable as George Washington (of whom William Thackeray rightly said that 'his glory will descend to remotest ages' while the memory of the sovereign went the other way).
Christopher Hitchens, The Monarchy: A Critique of Britain's Favourite Fetish (1990), Random House
In today's Britain, the idea that there could be a Constitution more powerful - and even sacrosanct - than any crowned head or elected politician (thus abolishing the false antithesis between hereditary monarchs and capricious presidents) is thought of as a breathtakingly new and daring idea...Too many crucial things about this country turn out to be highly recommended because they are 'invisible'. There is the 'hidden hand' of the free market, the 'unwritten' Constitution, the 'invisible earnings' of the financial service sector, the 'magic' of monarchy and the 'mystery' of the Church and its claim to the interpretation of revealed truth. When we do get as far as the visible or the palpable, too much of it is deemed secret. How right it is that senior ministers, having kissed hands with the monarch, are sworn to the cult of secrecy by 'The Privy Council Oath'. How right it is that our major foreign alliance - the 'special relationship' with the United States - is codified by no known treaty and regulated by no known Parliamentary instrument. 
Christopher Hitchens, The Monarchy: A Critique of Britain's Favourite Fetish (1990), Chatto Counterblasts
Deep is the primitive belief that it is the Anglo-Saxons, more than the CIA, more even than the Jews, who are the puppet masters of everything that happens in Iran.
Christopher Hitchens, "Persian Paranoia: Iranian leaders will always believe Anglo-Saxons are plotting against them", Slate (June 22, 2009).
In addition to relative indifference to the fate of the euro area, Britain is more protected because of speculation the central bank may intervene directly to finance the debt ... Europe is not a cash box, let alone a cashpoint...The British have been particularly shy about the issues of financial regulation, and attentive only to the interests of the City – hence their reluctance to see the introduction of a tax on financial transactions and tax harmonisation in Europe.
François Hollande, "New French leader fires a broadside at Britain: You only care about the City of London, says President Hollande" (8 May 2012), Daily Mail
We shall form to the American union a barrier against the dangerous extension of the British.
Thomas Jefferson, Letter to George Rogers Clark (25 December 1780)
The British ministry have so long hired their gazetteers to repeat and model into every form lies about our being in anarchy, that the world has at length believed them, the English nation has believed them, the ministers themselves have come to believe them, & what is more wonderful, we have believed them ourselves. Yet where does this anarchy exist? Where did it ever exist, except in the single instance of Massachusetts? And can history produce an instance of a rebellion so honourably conducted? I say nothing of its motives. They were founded in ignorance, not wickedness.
Thomas Jefferson, in a letter to William S. Smith (13 November 1787), The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, ed. Julian P. Boyd, vol. 12, p. 356 (1955)
(On Britain’s tilt to the Indo-Pacific: ‘Old theme park’) You know, here’s our old friend – what’s his name – the British prime minister waxing lyrical down there in Cornwall. I mean, Britain is like an old theme park sliding into the Atlantic compared to modern China. China is just going to be huge.
Paul Keating, 'It would make a cat laugh’: key moments from Paul Keating’s National Press Club appearance, The Guardian (November 10, 2021)
Great Britain is a republic with a hereditary president, while the United States is a monarchy with an elective king.
The Knoxville Journal (9 February 1896), as quoted in "The Politics of American Foreign Policy" by Peter Heys Gries, p. 170
England is an amazing and paradoxical country; there are, in spite of the great emphasis upon "democracy," all indications of the existence of an aristocratic and oligarchic rule, yet this generally recognized fact caused little if any human resentment among the lower classes. […] The tacit and genuine, human acceptance of aristocratic or at least upper class leadership gives Britain the right to call itself a "democracy" without being one in reality. Hierarchic feelings always were very strong in England, but the extreme elasticity of the class system has always mitigated the apprehensions if aroused. Nowhere are classes more receptive to new elements, nowhere is it easier to rise socially, yet nowhere are the differences between the classes so marked as in England (with the exception of India and certain sections of the United States).
Erik von Kuehnelt-Leddihn, The Menace of the Herd (1943), p. 218
There is no doubt that the treacherous attack has confirmed that Britain and America are acting on behalf of Israel and the Jews, paving the way for the Jews to divide the Muslim world once again, enslave it and loot the rest of its wealth.
Osama bin Laden, regarding Operation Desert Fox (December 1998), as quoted in Time magazine interview (23 December 1998)
The European Union and many of its countries, which used to take initiatives in the United Nations for peaceful settlements of conflict, are now one of the most important war assets of the U.S./NATO front.  Many countries have also been drawn into complicity in breaking international law through U.S./U.K./NATO wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, and so on.
Mairead Maguire in "The Disturbing Expansion of the Military-Industrial Complex", Common Dreams  (14 October 2014)
The British tourist is always happy abroad as long as the natives are waiters.
Robert Morley, The Observer (20 April 1958), as quoted in More Caviar (1959), by Art Buchwald. Harper, p. 54
We were wrong to believe that the British are our friends. You are obsessed solely with your own selfish interests and treat us as a people beyond the pale. But your attitude is a matter of profound disinterest. Your democratic system has already erupted into chaos. We shall soon overtake you and in a decade you will be struggling in our wake. Perhaps then you will remember how you treated us.
Muhammad Reza Pahlavi, as quoted in The Shah and I (1991), by Asadollah Alam, I. B. Tauris, p. 237
But where says some is the King of America? I'll tell you Friend, he reigns above, and doth not make havoc of mankind like the Royal Brute of Britain. Yet that we may not appear to be defective even in earthly honors, let a day be solemnly set apart for proclaiming the charter; let it be brought forth placed on the divine law, the word of God; let a crown be placed thereon, by which the world may know, that so far as we approve as monarchy, that in America the law is king.
Thomas Paine, Common Sense (1776)
The position of the United Kingdom is as usual so nuanced that it's difficult to see where they are on the spectrum, but look, that's what Britain's like...
Fabian Picardo describing the UK government's position on the UN Decolonisation Committee (2012)
His expedition against the Britanni was celebrated for its daring. For he was the first to launch a fleet upon the western ocean and to sail through the Atlantic sea carrying an army to wage war. The island was of incredible magnitude, and furnished much matter of dispute to multitudes of writers, some of whom averred that its name and story had been fabricated, since it never had existed and did not then exist and in his attempt to occupy it he carried the Roman supremacy beyond the confines of the inhabited world
Plutarch, as quoted in The Life of Julius Caesar
We have been told, to-day, that it was a woman that agitated Great Britain to its very centre, before emancipation could be effected in her colonies. Woman must go hand in hand with man in every great and noble cause, if success would be insured.
Ernestine Rose Speech (August 4, 1853) at the Anniversary of West Indian Emancipation
Most countries are founded in conquest. Europe, conquest, conquest and more conquest. Look at Britain. Before becoming an empire, it was conquered by the Norman kings of France and earlier by the Romans.
Dinesh D'Souza, America: Imagine the World Without Her (2014)
Britain still thinks it's 1999.
Irwin Stelzer, "Letter from Londonistan" (1 August 2005), The Weekly Standard
The quickest way to understand modern Britain is to look at what LBJ’s Great Society did to the black family and imagine it applied to the general population.
Mark Steyn, After America: Get Ready for Armageddon (2011), Regnery Publishing, pp. 206–206
We shall have to learn again to be one nation, or one day we shall be no nation.
Margaret Thatcher, Conservative Party television broadcast “Winter of Discontent” (January 17, 1979)
I can't bear Britain in decline. I just can't.
Margaret Thatcher, Interviewed by Michael Cockerell for BBC TV's Campaign '79 (27 April, 1979).
I came to office with one deliberate intent: to change Britain from a dependent to a self-reliant society – from a give-it-to-me, to a do-it-yourself nation. A get-up-and-go, instead of a sit-back-and-wait-for-it Britain.
Margaret Thatcher, Speech to Small Business Bureau Conference (8 February 1984).
The significance of the Falklands War was enormous, both for Britain's self-confidence and for our standing in the world...We had come to be seen by both friends and enemies as a nation which lacked the will and the capability to defend its interests in peace, let alone in war. Victory in the Falklands changed that. Everywhere I went after the war, Britain's name meant something more than it had. The war also had real importance in relations between East and West: years later I was told by a Russian general that the Soviets had been firmly convinced that we would not fight for the Falklands, and that if we did fight we would lose. We proved them wrong on both counts, and they did not forget the fact.
Margaret Thatcher, The Downing Street Years (1993), pp. 173-4.
When Britain first, at heaven's command, Arose from out of the azure main, This was the charter of the land, And guardian angels sung this strain: “Rule, Britannia, rule the waves; Britons never will be slaves.”
James Thomson, Alfred: a Masque, II, V.
The British have always fought, to be sure. No nation on Earth can be taken seriously in historical circles unless it has had at least one war with the British; it's like not having an American Express card. And yet the very idea of Britain in a contemporary war is a shock. Britain, one feels, fights in history books and not on TV.
Gene Wolfe, "A Few Points About knife Throwing", Fantasy Newsletter (1983), as reprinted in Gene Wolfe, Castle of Days (1992)
See also[edit]
COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom
External links[edit]
v
At Wikiversity, you can learn about:
United Kingdom
 Media related to United Kingdom on Wikimedia Commons
 United Kingdom travel guide from Wikivoyage
 The dictionary definition of united kingdom on Wiktionary
 Works related to United Kingdom on Wikisource
 Encyclopedic article on United Kingdom on Wikipedia
Retrieved from "https://en.wikiquote.org/w/index.php?title=United_Kingdom&oldid=3342869"
Categories: United KingdomBritish Empire
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
PageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadEditView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageCommunity portalVillage pumpRecent changesRandom pageHelpDonateContact Wikiquote
Wikiquote links
PeopleLiterary worksProverbsFilmsTV showsThemesCategories
Tools
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikinewsWikipediaWikivoyage
In other languages
العربيةAzərbaycancaবাংলাČeštinaEspañolEestiفارسیSuomiFrançaisItalianoPolskiСрпски / srpskiTürkçeУкраїнська中文
Edit links
 This page was last edited on 8 August 2023, at 17:37.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikiquote
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement