Go: A diver’s paradise
56 captures
05 Dec 2010 - 09 Jul 2023
May
JUN
Nov
22
2010
2011
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks May 2011
  Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started May, 2011. These files are currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20110622063452/http://www.nst.com.my/nst/articles/Go_Adiver__8217_sparadise/Article/
Wednesday, June 22, 2011, 03.07 PM  
NEWSLETTER
MOBILE
RSS
NEWS ARCHIVE
1KLASSIFIEDS
PROPERTY AUCTION
Home
Local
1,559 Ramadan bazaar forms sold out in 3 hours
PETALING JAYA: All 1,559 Ramadan bazaar lot application forms offered by Petaling Jaya City Council (MBPJ) were sold out within three hours after counters at two venues ...
        [ full story ]
A mega-city taking shape in Malaysia
18,800 maids fled last year
Amended 'Interlok' to be reprinted
17,180 households taking part in 1Azam
RM1.18b projects for Sarawak up to April 30
[more]
World
Mexican police arrest alleged head of La Familia cartel - The Guardian
NATION - News of the Day From Across the Nation - San Francisco Chronicle
Obama to unveil plan to withdraw troops from Afghanistan - Reuters
Riders stuck 3 hours on Chicago commuter trains - San Francisco Chronicle
Rising Stakes Spur White House, Congress in Debt Talks as Deadline Looms - Fox News
[more]
Business
WTK rated a 'buy', stock jumps
    WTK Holdings Bhd, a Malaysian timber producer, rose the most in two weeks in Kuala Lumpur trading after the stock was newly rated a "buy" at HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn Bhd and ...
     [ more ]
Genting Malaysia fair value raised
MAS climbs on buying B737-800s
OldTown to raise RM79.2m from IPO
Scientex gains on Q3 profit surge
Provisional A3 rating to sukuk sale
[more]
Sports
Badminton / Indonesia Open: Daren gets chance for revenge against Taufik
        LIEW Daren survived the qualifying rounds again to set up a rematch against local favourite Taufik Hidayat in the Indonesia Open in Jakarta yesterday.
        [ full story ]
Asian boss must quit, says Velappan
Football: Frustrating Lebanon
Football: Strikers to make it count this time
Sailing: Title race shifts to Portugal
Squash: Malaysians off to flying start
[more]
Streets
CENTRAL
 
GLUE SNIFFERS
      For over 10 years, children as young as 9 have been openly indulging in their addiction right next to a police beat base   
      [ full story ]
MBPJ to build two  car parks, walkway
Historic photo collage lines Klang City bridge
New record for fancy hats
Magical night at the Musicals
Major roads in city to close for marathon
[ more ]
JOHOR
ARAB CULTURE
       Popularised by Yemeni Arabs in the ’60s, the ‘samrah’ enjoys a steady following 
       [ full story ]
200 children colour their world
Motorists affected by  new  ruling
Copies of old Quran  at recycling centre
Non-stop entertainment for Tan clan's 70th anniversary
It's Crystal clear why they flock here
[ more ]
NORTHERN
AQUARIUM REOPENS
       The upgraded Fisheries Research Institute-cum-public aquarium in Penang is expected to draw in tourists
 
       [ full story ]
Michelle Yeoh promotes Ipoh run
Oh when the saints came marching in...
French cuisine with a 3-style twist
Lovely 'workout' at dinner
Daring crimes in broad daylight unnerve many
[ more ]
States
SELANGOR
PERLIS
KEDAH
PENANG
PERAK
KUALA LUMPUR
NEGERI SEMBILAN
MELAKA
JOHOR
PAHANG
TERENGGANU
KELANTAN
SABAH
SARAWAK
OP-ED
Blogs
Life&Times
It's TECH on Monday
Go HEALTHY on Tuesday
Step in STYLE on Wednesday
Great HOLIDAYS begin on Thursday
SHOWBIZ on Friday
LIVE it up on Saturday
Sunday Life&Times
4Youth
Learning Curve
YOU
Niexter
Videos
e-Media
Gadgets
Eats
Harum
7-Day News 
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Join NST's Facebook Community
 
    Connect nstconn with Facebook to interact with your friends on this site.
    
Home » 
 Travel
STORY TOOLS
 Bookmark article
 Email to friend 
 Print article 
 Enlarge font 
 Reduce font 
OTHER STORIES
Article
Go: A diver’s paradise
2010/12/01RIDZWAN A. RAHIMridzwanr@nstp.com.my
Share
|
Mabul Island at dawn
A school of Bumphead Parrotfishes rushing past
A diver resting at Sipadan during surface interval near an army speedboat
A menacing-looking cuttlefish
Turtles are a common sight in almost every dive at Sipadan
Sipadan is an underwater mountain where divers 'conquer' the coral reefs vertically
A trio of Harlequin Sweet Lips
Small creatures like this nudibranch are also a specialty of Sipadan
Lee’s Borneo Divers Resort began operation in Sipadan in 1983
Sipadan is the country’s only oceanic island and the Government has taken drastic steps to protect this national treasure, writes RIDZWAN A. RAHIM
THE water around Sipadan Island in Sabah is so clear you can see happy, healthy colonies of fish, turtles, corals and other marine life in it. But less than 10m from the shore, the turquoise water turns completely dark. The sea suddenly plunges into the dark unknown — a scary prospect for snorkellers. 
But all is good. This distinct change in colour marks one of the island’s famous dive sites: The Drop-Off. It’s 600m straight to the bottom and it’s what makes Sipadan unique. 
You see, Sipadan is really an underwater mountain. It is an oceanic island, which means it is not connected to any continental shelf but rises straight from the deep ocean floor. Most of the diving done in Sipadan is wall diving where the coral reefs are vertical, not below the diver as is the case in other places. 
This is a great place for divers to hone their buoyancy skills — you do not want to go below the 30-35m safety limit of recreational diving — while enjoying the scenery at the same time.But you can’t stay on the island as it has no resorts. This has been so since 2004. Many believe that this was done for security reasons. In 2000, 21 people were taken hostage by armed gunmen on the island (they were later released unharmed). According to Clement Lee, managing director of Borneo Divers Resort, tourists are not allowed to stay on the island because of environmental reasons. The only evidence of civilisation there is an army camp.
Borneo Divers began operation on Sipadan Island in 1983. Recreational scuba diving was virtually unheard of in Malaysia then, especially in Sabah. “We were the pioneers in diving tourism here. It started earlier in the peninsula, at least 30-35 years ahead of us although it was very sporadic,” says Lee, who comes from Kota Kinabalu.In 1988, maritime legend Jacques Cousteau visited Sipadan to shoot a documentary, Ghost Of The Sea Turtle.Over a period of 20 years, however, Lee witnessed the degradation of the marine life and the environment. There were too many divers and operators, he says. The small island could not withstand the traffic it was getting.In the past, the island was at the centre of a territorial dispute between Malaysia and Indonesia. The matter was brought for adjudication before the International Court Of Justice and, at the end of 2002, the Court awarded the island (along with the island of Ligitan) to Malaysia, on the basis of the “effective occupation” displayed by the latter’s predecessor (Malaysia’s former colonial power, the United Kingdom) and the absence of any other superior title.In 2003, the Sabah state government put the island under the auspices of Sabah Parks and asked the five operators on it to vacate. “When the authorities told us to vacate the island, we were the first to agree in order to give the island a chance to heal,” says Lee.“The environment is the diving industry’s silent partner. It does not talk but when it’s not well, it fights back. Then we’ll be in trouble.” The move was painful. Without any compensation, Borneo Divers had to leave behind millions of ringgit in terms of infrastructure and start anew at its present location in Mabul Island. However, the move proved to be good for the environment.“Now I see more turtles, barracudas, jacks and sharks. It’s not like they were not there before. They were. But there were too many people so they shied away,” says Lee. Today, visitors to Sipadan are limited to 120 divers per day, with each having to pay RM40 entrance fee. Lee describes the quota as painful to the industry but says that “one dive less in Sipadan is one more dive for the environment”. “Most divers are conservation minded so when we explain it to them, they accept it.” In an effort to divert attention away from Sipadan, the Sabah Tourism Board is promoting some 50 nearby islands, none of which are oceanic. Among these are Si Amil, Denawan, Sibuan and Mantabuan. Using Mabul Island as your station point, the furthest would be Sibuan, about an hour away by speedboat while Si Amil and Denawan are about 45 minutes away. These islands offer diversity. Some places have big fish, others offer small marine life. “All these islands come under the Tun Sakaran Marine Park, with no development or resort. Everybody has to go there and come back just like Sipadan,” says Lee.Where to stay Borneo Divers Mabul Dive Resort occupies a beautiful stretch of white powdery beach on Mabul Island, about 10 minutes boat ride to Sipadan Island.The resort was originally designed as the second base of operations to complement its Sipadan Resort.When the state government made the move to protect Sipadan, Borneo Divers Mabul Dive Resort was promoted as the flagship operation and base for diving in both islands.The resort offers two-bedroom chalets with 30 deluxe rooms. The kampung-style chalets blend in with the picturesque setting of the palm-shaded beach to give divers a perfect respite after a day’s diving. Its private beach and a swimming pool make it just the right place to unwind.Borneo Divers Mabul Dive Resort was built with divers’ needs in mind. Divers will be delighted with its well-equipped Dive Centre, located just a few steps from the beach.The announcement of Sipadan Entry Permit approval list will be available at the centre three to four days prior to the actual diving date. Payment for the entry permit fee can be made at the resort.Besides being the nerve centre of the resort’s diving activities, the centre offers top quality equipment for rent at a reasonable price. Other facilities include a dining hall that also serves as a reception area, a conference centre, beach gazebo massage service and a sundry-cum-gift shop. The resort also offers free broadband Internet access.For details, call 088-222 226, email reservations@borneodivers.info or visit http://www.borneodivers.info/.How to get thereMalaysia Airlines and AirAsia flies to Tawau. From Tawau, it’s about an hour’s drive to Semporna jetty and from there, another 40 minutes ride by boat to Mabul Island. Sipadan is about 10 minutes away from Mabul by speedboat. Be sure to make transportation arrangements before you go.
Advertisement 
Text Advertisements
         MONEY, TIME, HEALTH, ADULT STEM-CELLS
         WORLD"S FIRST PATENTED STEM-CELL ENHANCER
         HK - Asia's Trade Fair Capital
         USE INTERNET & MAKE MONEY !
         FOLLOW UP YOUR CUSTOMER AUTOMATICALLY TODAY !
         No Selling, Fully Automated, Make Money !
         OWN A COMPUTER? PUT IT TO WORK!
         FREE DOMAIN & SITEBUILDER ! Surfers Hosting Plan !
         GET WEEKLY INCOME, FREE REGISTER !
Advertisement 
Explore NST
News
Local
Business
Sports
Streets Central
Streets Johor
Column
OP-ED
Blogs
Letters to the Editor
Channels
Tech
Health
Style
Travel
Showbiz
Living
Sunday Life&Times
 
Learning Curve
Niexter
YOU
E-Media
Eats
Gadgets
Harum
Properties
Travelific
Offerings
RSS
Newsletter
Mobile
7-Day News
News Archive
Digital Newspaper
Advertising
1Klassifieds
Property Auction
Online Advertising
Newspaper
Business Times
Berita Harian
Harian Metro
About Us
Editorial
Developer
Copyright © 2011 The New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad. All rights reserved.
 
 