      Terrorism - Trinidad and Tobago travel advice - GOV.UK
  
33 captures
13 Aug 2013 - 08 Nov 2022
Jul
AUG
Apr
20
2018
2019
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20190820115158/https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/trinidad-and-tobago/terrorism
Skip to main content
GOV.UK uses cookies to make the site simpler.
Accept cookies
Cookie settings
      You’ve accepted all cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.
    
Hide
 GOV.UK
            
Search
Search
Home
Passports, travel and living abroad
Travel abroad
Foreign travel advice
      Foreign travel advice
    
    Trinidad and Tobago
  
Summary
Safety and security
                Terrorism
              
Local laws and customs
Entry requirements
Health
Natural disasters
Travel advice help and support
Subscriptions
Get email alerts
Subscribe to feed
      Terrorism
    
Terrorists are likely to try to carry out attacks in Trinidad & Tobago. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in crowded spaces and places visited by foreigners.
UK Counter Terrorism Policing has information and advice on staying safe abroad and what to do in the event of a terrorist attack. Find out more about the global threat from terrorism.
Although there have been no recent attacks in Trinidad and Tobago, more than 100 Trinidad and Tobago nationals have travelled to Syria and Iraq to fight along with Daesh (formerly referred to as ISIL). In February 2018, the local authorities arrested some individuals who had planned to carry out attacks against Carnival 2018.
There’s also a threat from individuals who may have been inspired by terrorist groups, including Daesh and al Qaeda, to carry out so-called ‘lone actor’ attacks targeting public events or places.
On 1 November 2017, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago announced that it had approved a national counter-terrorism strategy, and that an action plan to address violent extremism had been drafted. The Minister of National Security has spoken publically about Trinidad and Tobago’s efforts to tackle terrorism and violent extremism, including through co-operation with the UK.
There’s a heightened threat of terrorist attack globally against UK interests and British nationals, from groups or individuals motivated by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. You should be vigilant at this time.
              Previous
            
:
Safety and security
              Next
            
:
Local laws and customs
    Print entire guide
  
        Related content
      
About Foreign and Commonwealth Office travel advice
What to do if you’re affected by a crisis overseas
Foreign travel checklist
UK help and services in Trinidad and Tobago
Explore the topic
Living in Trinidad and Tobago
Travelling to Trinidad and Tobago
Is this page useful?
      Maybe
      Yes this page is useful
      No this page is not useful
      Is there anything wrong with this page?
 
    Thank you for your feedback
  
Close
Help us improve GOV.UK
Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
  What were you doing?
  What went wrong?
Send
Close
Help us improve GOV.UK
To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. We’ll send you a link to a feedback form. It will take only 2 minutes to fill in. Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your email address with anyone.
  Email address
Send me the survey
Prepare for Brexit
Prepare your business or organisation for Brexit
Prepare for Brexit if you live in the UK
Living in Europe after Brexit
Continue to live in the UK after Brexit
Services and information
Benefits
Births, deaths, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and parenting
Citizenship and living in the UK
Crime, justice and the law
Disabled people
Driving and transport
Education and learning
Employing people
Environment and countryside
Housing and local services
Money and tax
Passports, travel and living abroad
Visas and immigration
Working, jobs and pensions
Departments and policy
How government works
Departments
Worldwide
Services
Guidance and regulation
News and communications
Research and statistics
Policy papers and consultations
Transparency and freedom of information releases
Support links
Help
Cookies
Contact
Accessibility
Terms and conditions
Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
Built by the Government Digital Service
Open Government Licence
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright