Coevolution of parental investment and sexually selected traits drives sex-role divergence - NASA/ADS
Now on home page
 ads
 Enable full ADS
                    
 
view 
                Abstract
              
                Citations
                (14)
                References
                (5)
                Co-Reads
              
                Similar Papers
              
                Volume Content
              
                  Graphics
                  
                  Metrics
                  
                Export Citation
              
NASA/ADS
                  
                  Coevolution of parental investment and sexually selected traits drives sex-role divergence
                  
                  
Fromhage, Lutz
;
                    
                    Jennions, Michael D.
Abstract
                    Sex-role evolution theory attempts to explain the origin and direction of male-female differences. A fundamental question is why anisogamy, the difference in gamete size that defines the sexes, has repeatedly led to large differences in subsequent parental care. Here we construct models to confirm predictions that individuals benefit less from caring when they face stronger sexual selection and/or lower certainty of parentage. However, we overturn the widely cited claim that a negative feedback between the operational sex ratio and the opportunity cost of care selects for egalitarian sex roles. We further argue that our model does not predict any effect of the adult sex ratio (ASR) that is independent of the source of ASR variation. Finally, to increase realism and unify earlier models, we allow for coevolution between parental investment and investment in sexually selected traits. Our model confirms that small initial differences in parental investment tend to increase due to positive evolutionary feedback, formally supporting long-standing, but unsubstantiated, verbal arguments.
                  
Publication:
Nature Communications
Pub Date:
August 2016
DOI:
10.1038/ncomms12517
Bibcode:
                    2016NatCo...712517F
                    
 
full text sources
Publisher
|
 
            © The SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System
            
 adshelp[at]cfa.harvard.edu
              
                The ADS is operated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory under NASA Cooperative
                Agreement NNX16AC86A
              Resources
            
 About ADS
                
 ADS Help
                
 What's New
                
 Careers@ADS
                
              Social
            
 @adsabs
                
 ADS Blog
                
              Project
            
Switch to full ADS
Is ADS down?
                  (or is it just me...)
Smithsonian Institution
Smithsonian Privacy
                  Notice
Smithsonian Terms of
                  Use
Smithsonian
                  Astrophysical Observatory
NASA
🌓