Trinidad and Tobago
202 captures
21 Jan 2017 - 26 Mar 2023
Jun
JUN
Aug
04
2018
2019
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Mark Graham's Archive-IT Collections
  This is a set of web collections curated by Mark Graham using the Archive-IT service of the Internet Archive.
They include web captures of the ISKME.org website as well as captures from sites hosted by IGC.org.
These web captures are available to the general public.
For more information about this collection please feel free to contact Mark via Send Mail
Collection: US State Department FOIA
  Archive-It Partner 1028: Mark Graham - Collection 7123: US State Department FOIA
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20190604192949/https://2009-2017.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/35638.htm
Skip to Main Content
  You are viewing:   ArchivedContent  Information released online from January 20, 2009 to January 20, 2017. Note: Content in this archive site is not updated, and links may not function. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.    Go to the current State.gov website for up-to-date information.   
DOS Seal
U.S. Department of State
Diplomacy in Action
Video
Twitter
Facebook
More
Flickr
YouTube
Instagram
Google+
Tumblr
DipNote Blog
RSS
Subscribe
Toggle Topbar
Menu
Secretary Kerry
Remarks
Travel
Photos
Biography
About
Mission Statement
QDDR
Organization Chart
Budget
Department of State by State
Rules and Info Collection
Partner With State
Senior Officials
Alphabetical List of Bureaus and Offices
Advisory Groups
Biographies
Plans, Performance, Budgets
Agency Financial Reports
Open Government Initiative
No FEAR Act
Inspector General Hotline
U.S. Embassies and Other Posts
American Foreign Service Association
What We Do
Arms Control and International Security
Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights
Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment
Management
Political Affairs
Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
Policy Issues
Anti-Corruption
Climate & Environment
Counterterrorism & Countering Violent Extremism
Cyber Issues
Defeating ISIL
Democracy & Human Rights
Economic Affairs & Trade Policy
Energy
Food Security
Health Diplomacy
Nonproliferation
Oceans & Arctic
Refugees
Trafficking in Persons
Women's Issues
Countries & Regions
A-Z List of Countries and Other Areas
Africa (Sub-Sahara)
East Asia and the Pacific
Europe and Eurasia
Near East (northern Africa, Middle East)
South and Central Asia
Western Hemisphere (Latin America, the Caribbean, Canada)
UN & Other International Organizations
Press
Daily Press Briefings
Press Releases
Public Schedule
Secretary Kerry's Releases
International Media Engagement
RSS News Feeds
Email Subscriptions
Foreign Press Center
Search Input
Jump to In This Section
HomeUnder Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public AffairsBureau of Public AffairsBureau of Public Affairs: PublicationsU.S. Bilateral Relations Fact Sheets
U.S. Relations With Trinidad and Tobago
Share
Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs
Fact Sheet
June 29, 2016
More information about Trinidad and Tobago is available on the Trinidad and Tobago Page and from other Department of State publications and other sources listed at the end of this fact sheet.
U.S.-TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO RELATIONS
The United States and Trinidad and Tobago enjoy cordial relations. U.S. interests in the country and throughout the hemisphere include increasing investment and trade, enhancing Trinidad and Tobago's political and social development through crime prevention and youth programs, encouraging its positive regional role in the Caribbean Community and the Organization of American States, and strengthening the government’s capacity to deal with foreign terrorist fighters.. The two countries have extradition and mutual legal assistance treaties, and agreements on maritime cooperation and tax information exchange. There are large numbers of U.S. citizens and permanent residents of Trinbagonian origin living in the United States (mostly in New York and Florida), which keeps cultural ties strong.  About 145,000 U.S. citizens visit Trinidad and Tobago on vacation or for business every year, and more than 11,500 American citizens are residents.
U.S. Assistance to Trinidad and Tobago
The U.S. Government provides technical assistance to the Government of Trinidad and Tobago through a number of existing agreements. A Customs Advisory Team from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security works with the Ministry of Finance to update its procedures. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,  collaborates with the Ministry of Health and regional partners to strengthen HIV/AIDS programs and to build public health capacity to combat mosquito-borne viruses, such as improving laboratory systems and services. Trinidad and Tobago is a participant in the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (CBSI), the U.S. government’s regional citizen security and youth development assistance program. In 2015- 2016, the U.S. Government helped the Government of Trinidad and Tobago sign and begin implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The U.S. Embassy’s extensive cultural, sports, and education programs and exchanges strengthened the bilateral relationship, increased economic opportunities for youth, increased their leadership skills, and encouraged them to continue their education and give back to their communities. 
Bilateral Economic Relations
Trinidad and Tobago’s $31 billion GDP, driven by the energy sector, makes the economy roughly the size of Vermont’s.  The U.S. was Trinidad and Tobago’s sole liquefied natural gas (LNG) export market for many years until increased U.S. domestic production prompted Trinidad and Tobago to diversify its export portfolio.  Trinidad and Tobago is facing a gas shortage to both downstream industrial clients and LNG exports.  The shortages have impacted U.S. companies and are expected to persist at least until late-2017 when a new gas field is expected to come online.  These shortages may undermine TT’s competitiveness, especially in light of increasing U.S. gas supplies.
U.S. commercial ties with the country have always been strong.  The U.S. is Trinidad and Tobago’s largest trading partner, with Trinidad and Tobago having a $3.5 billion trade surplus with the U.S. for goods in 2014 thanks to energy and petrochemical exports. Trinidad and Tobago is a beneficiary of the U.S. Caribbean Basin Initiative, a trade program intended to facilitate the economic development and export diversification of Caribbean Basin economies through duty-free access to the U.S. market for most goods. 
Trinidad and Tobago's Membership in International Organizations
Trinidad and Tobago maintains close relations with its Caribbean neighbors and major North American and European trading partners. Trinidad and Tobago and the United States belong to a number of the same international organizations, including the United Nations, Organization of American States, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and World Trade Organization.
Bilateral Representation
John Estrada is the U.S. Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago; other principal embassy officials are listed in the Department's Key Officers List.
Trinidad and Tobago maintains an embassy in the United States at 1708 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036 (tel. 202-467-6490). Anthony Phillips-Spencer is the Trinidad and Tobago Ambassador to the United States.
More information about Trinidad and Tobago is available from the Department of State and other sources, some of which are listed here:
Department of State Trinidad and Tobago Page
Department of State Key Officers List
CIA World Factbook Trinidad and Tobago Page
U.S. Embassy: Trinidad and Tobago
History of U.S. Relations With Trinidad and Tobago
Human Rights Reports 
International Religious Freedom Reports
Trafficking in Persons Reports
Narcotics Control Reports
Investment Climate Statements
U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Statistics
Export.gov International Offices Page
Travel and Business Information
In This Section:
Go Back
Highlights
Learn More
Business
Business Support: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Office of Global Partnerships
Commercial and Business Affairs Office
Key Officers of Foreign Service Posts
Trade Policy and Programs
Defense Trade Controls
Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
Recovery and Reinvestment Act
Service Contract Inventory
Careers
Consular Fellows Program
Foreign Service Officer
Civil Service Officer
Foreign Service Specialist
International Organizations
Student Programs
USAJobs: Working for America
Education & Exchanges
Discover Diplomacy
Global Youth Issues
Diplomatic History
Office of Overseas Schools
Exchange Visitor Program
Fulbright Program
Student Career Programs
Youth Exchange Programs
U.S. Diplomacy Center
Intercountry Adoption
Parental Child Abduction
Travel
Passports
Visas
Travel Information
Emergency Services
Intercountry Adoption
Parental Child Abduction
Foreign Per Diem Rates
Archive
Contact Us
FAQ
Search
Share
Subject Index
Accessibility Statement
Copyright Information
External Link Policy
FOIA
No Fear Act
Privacy Policy
Office of Inspector General 
BusinessUSA
White House
USA.gov
U.S. Embassies
The Office of Website Management, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department.External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.Note: documents in Portable Document Format (PDF) require Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0 or higher to view, download Adobe Acrobat Reader.
Top
Javascript is disabled in your browser. For the best experience on this web site, please enable Javascript.
You are entering the 2009-2017 Archive for the U.S. Department of State.
If you are looking for current information, visit www.state.gov.
× 