     Transitioning to a circular economy: lessons from the wood industry
 |  Emerald Insight
                 
Books and journals
Case studies
Expert Briefings
Open Access
               Publish with us
               
Advanced search
To read this content please select one of the options below:
Access and purchase options
Purchase options
Rent this content from DeepDyve
Rent from DeepDyve
Other access
You may be able to access this content by logging in via your Emerald profile.
Login
If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team.
Contact us
Please note you do not have access to teaching notes
Access and purchase options
Purchase options
Other access
You may be able to access teaching notes by logging in via your Emerald profile.
Login
If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team.
Contact us
Transitioning to a circular economy: lessons from the wood industry
 Tharaka De Vass 
            (Department of Management, Monash Business School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia)
         Alka Ashwini Nand 
            (Department of Management, Monash Business School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia)
         Ananya Bhattacharya 
            (Department of Management, Monash Business School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia)
         Daniel Prajogo 
            (Department of Management, Monash Business School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia)
         Glen Croy 
            (Department of Management, Monash Business School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia)
         Amrik Sohal 
            (Department of Management, Monash Business School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia)
         Kristian Rotaru 
            (Department of Accounting, Monash Business School, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia)
        
The International Journal of Logistics Management
ISSN:
                    0957-4093
Article publication date: 2 November 2022
Issue publication date: 28 April 2023
Downloads
                438
            
Abstract
Purpose
Using a soft-hard continuum of drivers and barriers, this research seeks to explain wood companies' adoption of circular economy (CE) practices.
Design/methodology/approach
Multiple interviews, complemented by secondary documents and site observations were used to investigate three wood-based companies that have adopted CE practices. The 10R framework and soft-hard continuum are used to guide data analysis.
Findings
The adoption of 10R practices were explained by soft-factor incentives of leaders' values and vision and openness for innovation, all within a regulatory void, and eventually overcome hard-factor barriers of process development, supply chain capability and customer behaviours at product end-of-life.
Practical implications
Crucial for CE model adoption are leaders' positive attitudes, subsequently grown across the companies. The 10Rs are a prompt for CE practice adoption to capture and retain value and generate revenue. Collaboration across the supply chain, including customers and other value capture companies (e.g. repurposing companies), is essential to maximise value retention. Government should play an increased soft-factor incentive regulatory role and support CE practices to overcome hard-factor barriers.
Originality/value
This study contributes an explanation of CE adoption within a relatively unsupported context. Despite the regulatory void, CE practice adoption was driven by leader values. To achieve their vision and overcome the numerous barriers, suppliers and customers required a large investment in education. Indeed, customer behaviour, previously thought to be an incentive for CE adoption, is also identified as a barrier.
Keywords
 Sustainable manufacturing
 Circular economy
 Supply chains
 Leadership values
 Regulatory void
Acknowledgements
The authors thank Sustainability Victoria and Monash Business School for funding the project, and the participating companies for their much-valued contributions.Funding: The study is funded by the Circular Economy Business Innovation Centre (CEBIC, delivered by Sustainability Victoria) and the Monash Business School.
Citation
De Vass, T., Nand, A.A., Bhattacharya, A., Prajogo, D., Croy, G., Sohal, A. and Rotaru, K. (2023), "Transitioning to a circular economy: lessons from the wood industry", The International Journal of Logistics Management, Vol. 34 No. 3, pp. 582-610. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJLM-04-2022-0200
Publisher:
        Emerald Publishing Limited
        Copyright © 2022, Emerald Publishing Limited
Related articles
Support & Feedback 
      Manage cookies
    
We’re listening — tell us what you think
Something didn’t work…
Report bugs here
All feedback is valuable
Please share your general feedback
Join us on our journey
Platform update page
Visit emeraldpublishing.com/platformupdate to discover the latest news and updates
Questions & More Information
Answers to the most commonly asked questions here
© 2023 Emerald Publishing Limited
Services
Authors
Editors
Librarians
Researchers
Reviewers
About
About Emerald
Working for Emerald
Contact us
Publication sitemap
Policies and information
Privacy notice
Site policies
Modern Slavery Act
Chair of Trustees governance statement
COVID-19 policy
Accessibility
×