The bilingual adaptation: How minds accommodate experience
  
    
    
    
    
      
  The bilingual adaptation: How minds accommodate experience
    
  
Psychol Bull. 2017 Mar;143(3):233-262.
        doi: 10.1037/bul0000099.
      
            Author
          
Ellen Bialystok 
                1
              
            Affiliation
          
1 York University.
    
      PMID:
    
  
      28230411
    
    
      PMCID:
    
  
      PMC5324728
    
    
      DOI:
    
  
      10.1037/bul0000099
    
        Abstract
        
      
      
      According to some estimates, more than half of the world's population is multilingual to some extent. Because of the centrality of language use to human experience and the deep connections between linguistic and nonlinguistic processing, it would not be surprising to find that there are interactions between bilingualism and cognitive and brain processes. The present review uses the framework of experience-dependent plasticity to evaluate the evidence for systematic modifications of brain and cognitive systems that can be attributed to bilingualism. The review describes studies investigating the relation between bilingualism and cognition in infants and children, younger and older adults, and patients, using both behavioral and neuroimaging methods. Excluded are studies whose outcomes focus primarily on linguistic abilities because of their more peripheral contribution to the central question regarding experience-dependent changes to cognition. Although most of the research discussed in the review reports some relation between bilingualism and cognitive or brain outcomes, several areas of research, notably behavioral studies with young adults, largely fail to show these effects. These discrepancies are discussed and considered in terms of methodological and conceptual issues. The final section proposes an account based on "executive attention" to explain the range of research findings and to set out an agenda for the next steps in this field. (PsycINFO Database Record
    
    (c) 2017 APA, all rights reserved).
  
        Publication types
      
                
                  
  Review
                
              
                
                  
  Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural
                
              
                
                  
  Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
                
              
        MeSH terms
      
                  
                    
  Adult
                  
                
                  
                    
  Brain / diagnostic imaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Brain / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Child
                  
                
                  
                    
  Child, Preschool
                  
                
                  
                    
  Cognition*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Electroencephalography
                  
                
                  
                    
  Evoked Potentials / physiology*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Functional Neuroimaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Humans
                  
                
                  
                    
  Infant
                  
                
                  
                    
  Language
                  
                
                  
                    
  Magnetic Resonance Imaging
                  
                
                  
                    
  Magnetoencephalography
                  
                
                  
                    
  Mental Processes*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Multilingualism*
                  
                
                  
                    
  Neuronal Plasticity
                  
                
        Grant support
      
          R01 HD052523/HD/NICHD NIH HHS/United States
        
          R21 AG048431/AG/NIA NIH HHS/United States
        