Systematics, natural history, and conservation of Erica (Ericaceae)  
About PensoftBooksJournalsNews & BlogContact
Register |
Login
 
Full Text
Author
Title
Submit manuscript
About
Articles
Issues
Topical collections
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Contacts
In this collection
Papers published: 0
Documents added: 2
Printed version: Paperback
Systematics, natural history, and conservation of Erica (Ericaceae)  
Sort by:
Publication date newest
Publication date oldest
Total views
Unique views
Best match
Citations countHighly accessed (last month)Highly accessed (last 3 months)Highly accessed (last 6 months)Highly accessed (last year)
Edited by Michael Pirie, Félix Forest, Timo van der Niet, Jaime Fagúndez, Seth Musker, Fernando Ojeda, Anina Coetzee, E. Charles Nelson
Worldwide, a sobering proportion of plant species are threatened with extinction in the wild, and those that are naturally rare or have narrow distributions are particularly vulnerable. The flowering plant genus Erica is a prime example, its numerous species, concentrated in South Africa’s spectacular Cape Floristic Region, presenting additional challenges associated with conserving large, complex, plant groups. 
The Erica research and conservation community is rallying to the call for a multi-disciplinary approach to these multifaceted challenges. We need to better understand, describe, and name species diversity, to enable accurate identification, and to understand the complexity of ecological interactions in the wild. We can then more effectively obtain and target funding for conservation efforts in natural habitats, and as a last resort, secure the most critically endangered species in seed banks and botanic gardens. 
This topical collection of papers represents a coming together of a substantial body of research on inter-dependent themes in nomenclature, taxonomy, phylogeny, ecology, and conservation of Erica species. It will serve as a lasting resource and reference for future work. It will also serve to disseminate and honour the enormous contribution to Erica taxonomy of our longstanding collaborator E.G.H. (Ted) Oliver and his late wife Inge. 
 
Cover photo by Timo van der Niet.
 10.3897/phytokeys.coll.216
No articles published in this collection
ABOUT PENSOFT
Company Profile
Innovations & Tools
Open Access & APC Policies
Terms of Use
Editorial Policies
PRODUCTS
Journals
Advanced Books
Conventional Books
Conference Abstracts
Conference Proceedings
SERVICES
For Authors
For Journals
For Books
For Conferences
For Organisations
PROJECTS
Research Projects
Services
Partners
Brochure
ARPHA
ARPHA Publishing Platform
ARPHA Manual
ARPHA Pricing
Web Services
GET IN TOUCH
Contacts
Publishing Inquiry
Migrate Your Journal
Open a New Journal
Follow PENSOFT
Blog & News
Subscribe
Media Center
© Pensoft Publishers 2023
This website uses cookies in order to improve your web experience. Read our Cookies Policy
OK