No GPL Apps for Apple's App Store | ZDNET
                                         />                                                                                                                                                                                                   X     Trending    
I tried Apple Vision Pro and it's far ahead of where I expected What is ChatGPT and why does it matter? Is Temu legit? What to know about this shopping app before you place an order Special Feature: Unlock the Full Power of Your Phone  ZDNET Recommends These $400 XR glasses gave my MacBook a 120-inch screen to work with The best earbuds you can buy Google Pixel Fold review: Samsung's first big competitor comes out swinging Smart home starter pack: 5 devices that will make your life easier Mesh routers vs. Wi-Fi routers: What's best for your home office?  Best smartphones Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best headphones Best robot vacuums  Tech    Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs  Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services  Tablets TVs Wearables  Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors  Innovation    Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy  Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life  Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society  Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023  Business    See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce  Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft  Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows  Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles  Security      See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN  Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud  Advice      Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews  Buying Guides    See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs  Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs  Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches  Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs   tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today       
          Asia
        
          Australia
        
          Europe
        
          India
        
          United Kingdom
        
          United States
         ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan        Go  Most Popular          See all Topics Finance Education Health  Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends  Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines        Trending  I tried Apple Vision Pro and it's far ahead of where I expected What is ChatGPT and why does it matter? Is Temu legit? What to know about this shopping app before you place an order Special Feature: Unlock the Full Power of Your Phone ZDNET Recommends These $400 XR glasses gave my MacBook a 120-inch screen to work with The best earbuds you can buy Google Pixel Fold review: Samsung's first big competitor comes out swinging Smart home starter pack: 5 devices that will make your life easier Mesh routers vs. Wi-Fi routers: What's best for your home office? Best smartphones Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best headphones Best robot vacuums Tech  Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation  Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business  See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security  See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice  Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides  See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More  See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines  Tech     
      Home
    
      Tech
    
      Services & Software
    
      Open Source
      
    No GPL Apps for Apple's App Store
   
    VLC, the popular open-source, media player from VideoLAN has just been pulled from the Apple App Store. It won't be the last.
      Written by 
            Steven Vaughan-Nichols, Senior Contributing Editor   
        on
        Jan. 8, 2011                     Some people swore to me that just because the free-software General Public License (GPL) clashes with the Apple App Store's Terms of Service (ToS), didn't mean that Apple would actually pull down GPLed apps. Well, Apple just did. Rémi Denis-Courmont, a Linux developer and the popular VLC media player, has just announced that Apple had pulled the popular GPLed VLC media player from its App Store.
 Denis-Courmont wrote, "On January 7th, Apple removed VLC media player from its application store for iDevices. Thus the incompatibility between the GNU General Public License and the AppStore terms of use is resolved--the hard way. This end should not have come to a surprise to anyone, given the precedents."
 It certainly didn't come as a surprise to Denis-Courmont who pointed out that Apple's ToS conflicted with VLC's GPLv2 licensing on October 25th when he sent a formal notification of "copyright infringement … to Apple Inc. regarding distribution of the VLC media player for iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch. VLC media player is free software licensed solely under the terms of the open source GNU General Public License (a.k.a. GPL). Those terms are contradicted by the products usage rules of the AppStore through which Apple delivers applications to users of its mobile devices."
 His action did not go over well with some other VideoLAN, the non-profit organization behind VLC, developers. As Denis-Courmont wrote at this time, "Some people have commented that this will damage the project's reputation. Maybe so. Blame those who published and/or advertised VLC for iPad. The fact of the GPL incompatibility was already well known."
 You might say that Denis-Courmont was saying that "Don't ask, don't tell" is not an acceptable free-software/open-source policy in dealing with restrictive app store ToS.
 Others see it in an entirely different light, The iOS VLC app was created by Applidium, a French mobile software company. In an Ars Technica interview, Applidium co-founder Romain Goyet said "The way I see it, we're not violating anyone's freedom. We worked for free, opened all our source code, and the app is available for free for anyone to download. People are enjoying a nice free and open source video player on the AppStore, and some people are trying to ruin it in the name of 'freedom.'"
 Be that as it may, the Free Software Foundation (FSF)  agreed with Denis-Courmont that the GPLv2 does, indeed, conflict with Apple's App Store ToS. In a note to the VLC membership list, Brett Smith, FSF Licensing Compliance Engineer, wrote that because "Apple 'only' allows you to do the activities in the list of Usage Rules, if an activity does not appear in this list, you're not allowed to do it at all."
 Smith continued:
 Section 6 of GPLv2 says: Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
 When the App Store terms prohibit commercial use, general distribution, and modification, these are exactly the kinds of "further restrictions" that are not allowed thanks to the last sentence here.
 This is a crucial part of the GPL's copyleft. Without this section, it would be trivially easy to keep freedom away from users by putting additional requirements in a separate legal agreement, like Terms of Service or an NDA.
 Section 6 is not legal minutia: if you take it away, the license would completely fail to work as designed at all. 
Some VideoLAN programmers were very angry about this. In a follow-up VideoLAN mailing list post, VideoLAN association president Jean-Baptiste Kempf wrote, "With 'friends' like you, we don't need any enemies. If I understand correctly, the FSF new policy is to blow up communities?" Smith replied, "My analysis of the current terms talks about how the Usage Rules restrict distribution."
 Many open-source communities will need to decide if they'd rather stick to the letter of the law of their free software licenses or work with Apple's App stores. I don't believe that Apple goes to any great trouble to check if iOS programs' software licenses are compatible with its ToS. I also can't see Apple making its ToS any friendlier to open-source licenses. As Apple has shown time and again, Apple's software policies all about control, developer freedom, as Adobe developers can attest, comes a long way second.
 Apple will though , as this episode has shown, pull GPLed software off its App Store shelves if someone else brings a licensing violation to their attention. Therefore, the responsibility for enforcing the GPL will rest with organizations like the Software Freedom Law Center and the developers themselves. What they'll do with this responsibility remains to be seen.
 In the meantime, iPhone, iPad, and iTouch users can continue to use MobileVLC if they've already downloaded it according to Smith. The problem is with how Apple licenses the sale of GPLv2 code to users, not with how users use GPLed programs once they're in hand.
 Editorial standards  Show Comments  
          Log In to Comment
         Community Guidelines     Related   
      TikTok forces creators to use TikTok Shop by removing all competition on the app
      
      Now you can run any Windows app on your Chromebook, thanks to this partnership
      
      TikTok bans explained: Everything you need to know
              ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
    Log InNewslettersSite AssistanceLicensing     
  © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
 Privacy Policy |
  Cookie Settings |
  Advertise |
  Terms of Use 