New Sabah Times
26 captures
09 Nov 2013 - 07 Apr 2023
Nov
JUL
Nov
02
2013
2014
2015
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls.

At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer.

View the web archive through the Wayback Machine.
Collection: Live Web Proxy Crawls
  Content crawled via the Wayback Machine Live Proxy mostly by the Save Page Now feature on web.archive.org.

Liveweb proxy is a component of Internet Archive’s wayback machine project. The liveweb proxy captures the content of a web page in real time, archives it into a ARC or WARC file and returns the ARC/WARC record back to the wayback machine to process. The recorded ARC/WARC file becomes part of the wayback machine in due course of time.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20140702212542/http://www.newsabahtimes.com.my/nstweb/fullstory/61905
 
                3rd July 2014, Thu 
 
Profile
To Subscribe
To Advertise
Contacts
Local
Foreign
Business
Sports
Leisure
BM
Kadazan Dusun
Archives
Latest News
 
GST seminar to be held at Wisma KKCCCI July 12 |  
              
                  M’sia-China relations continue to strengthen amid various incidents |  
              
                  It’s more comfortable to complain than singing their praise |  
              
                  Pengerusi CAPS mahu tahu cara mohon bantuan pekebun kecil getah |  
              
                  Komuniti belia suntik semangat ESSCOM pertahan kedaulatan Sabah |  
              
                  Pengerusi JKKK, JKDB jarang hadir mesyuarat diminta beri penjelasan |  
              
                  Pemansuhan ISA beri kesan usaha banteras militan |  
              
                  Kemalangan   tapak pembinaan ragut 9 nyawa setakat  Mac lalu |  
              
                  Kekurangan hutan  paksa orangutan  duduki ladang sawit |  
              
                  Tiga RTC bakal dibina di Sabah dan Sarawak  masa terdekat |  
              
                  KES SEKS DI NZ  LELAKI HADAPI  SIASATAN: ANIFAH |  
              
                  Kopomunsaan ISA kapanaak tanda kumaa pongkimamaan monguhan militan |  
              
                  Mongindapu pasar Ramadan pinosoou poposoguhu kabakasan |  
              
                  TANAK NOPUJULAN KINIOPON KINOOT DI MAMAI DAU |  
              
                  FA-Education Dept  joint bid to develop futsal |  
              
            
 Leisure
              Lipton urges Malaysians to take pride in teh tarik, our national beverage
            
7th September, 2012
No true blue Malaysian needs an introduction to teh tarik. The ubiquitous national drink of Malaysia, teh tarik – rich with familiar and aromatic flavours – perfectly represents the diverse cultural mix of Malaysia. The perfect balance of tea and milk in a single cup and is a great source of national pride that brings Malaysians together.
In honour of Malaysia’s 55th birthday, Lipton, the world’s No. 1 tea brand is launching a nationwide celebration with the “I’m a Malaysian, Teh Tarik is MY National Drink” campaign. The campaign, which starts on 31 August, is a call-to-action to unite all proud Malaysians to cement teh tarik as Malaysia’s national beverage. Malaysians from all walks of life are invited to pledge their support for teh tarik via Lipton Facebook fan page. The campaign runs from 31 August to 16 September.
The “I’m a Malaysian, Teh Tarik is MY National Drink” campaign is a continuation of the brand’s campaign in March to showcase and amplify the unique Malaysian cultural heritage. The latter campaign, named “Proud to be Malaysian. Jom Teh Tariklah” garnered strong support from Malaysians. Echoing this success, Lipton launched the second campaign in conjunction with National Day and Malaysia Day.
The tea brand hopes to garner 55,000 pledges from Malaysians within the two weeks to reinforce teh tarik’s position as the beverage that Malaysians cherish.
Malaysians can pledge their support for the “I’m a Malaysian. Teh Tarik is MY National Drink” campaign at http://www.facebook.com/lipton.
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    Now, you can also channel your complaints or grievances to Actionline through our E-Mail
                    You may write to:
                    ActionLine,
                    New Sabah Times, P.O. Box No 15141, 88861 Kota Kinabalu, Sabah.
                  
        Copyright © 1998-2013 New Sabah Times. All Rights Reserved.
        Please send your comments to the Editor-In-Chief or call Telephone:088-230055 Facsimile:088-231155.