Paleoclimate Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Paleoclimate11,088 FollowersRecent papers in PaleoclimateTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleMap Folio 70 Early Devonian (Emsian, 402.3 Ma)This map folio should be referenced as: Scotese, C.R., 2013. Map Folio 70 Early Devonian (Emsian, 402.3 Ma), PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS, volume 4, Late Paleozoic Paleogeographic, Paleoclimatic and Plate Tectonic Reconstructions,... moreThis map folio should be referenced as:Scotese, C.R., 2013. Map Folio 70 Early Devonian (Emsian, 402.3 Ma), PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS, volume 4, Late Paleozoic Paleogeographic, Paleoclimatic and Plate Tectonic Reconstructions, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.IntroductionThese maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  18  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleomagnetismTropical circulation and hydrological cycle response to orbital forcingSave to LibraryDownloadby I. Mokhov•  6  Paleoclimate, Multidisciplinary, Hydrological Cycle, Orbital forcingI minerali argillosi quali indicatori per ricostruire il clima del passatoSave to LibraryDownloadby Francesco Iacoviello•  5  Sedimentology, Paleoenvironment, Clay Minerals, PaleoclimateARAB ISLAMIC HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS AS A CLIMATOLOGICAL SOURCE IN THE MAGHREBCC-BY 54 SCIENCE HIGHLIGHTS: Climate ReConstRuCtion and impaCts fRom the aRChives of soCieties Arab historiographical studies can provide detailed climatic data and information on natural disasters through the exploitation of academically... moreCC-BY 54 SCIENCE HIGHLIGHTS: Climate ReConstRuCtion and impaCts fRom the aRChives of soCieties Arab historiographical studies can provide detailed climatic data and information on natural disasters through the exploitation of academically revised and re-edited ancient manuscripts. Maghrebian scholars have written valuable chronicles and annals that can form the basis of relevant paleoclimatic series.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yassin Meklach•  6  Paleoclimatology, History of Science, Paleoclimate, Codicology of medieval manuscriptsTriple oxygen and hydrogen isotopes of gypsum hydration water for quantitative paleo-humidity reconstructionKeywords: triple oxygen isotopes gypsum hydration water relative humidity lake sediments Younger Dryas Late Glacial–Holocene transition Atmospheric relative humidity is an important parameter affecting vegetation yet paleo-humidity... moreKeywords: triple oxygen isotopes gypsum hydration water relative humidity lake sediments Younger Dryas Late Glacial–Holocene transition Atmospheric relative humidity is an important parameter affecting vegetation yet paleo-humidity proxies are scarce and difficult to calibrate. Here we use triple oxygen (δ 17 O and δ 18 O) and hydrogen (δD) isotopes of structurally-bound gypsum hydration water (GHW) extracted from lacustrine gypsum to quantify past changes in atmospheric relative humidity. An evaporation isotope-mass-balance model is used together with Monte Carlo simulations to determine the range of climatological conditions that simultaneously satisfy the stable isotope results of GHW, and with statistically robust estimates of uncertainty. We apply this method to reconstruct the isotopic composition of paleo-waters of Lake Estanya (NE Spain) and changes in normalized atmospheric relative humidity (RH n) over the last glacial termination and Holocene (from ∼15 to 0.6 cal. kyrs BP...Save to LibraryDownloadby Blas Valero Garces•  15  Earth Sciences, Geology, Climate Change, PaleoclimatologyImpact of the Middle Eocene Climatic Optimum (MECO) on Foraminiferal and Calcareous Nannofossil Assemblages in the Neo-Tethyan Baskil Section (Eastern Turkey): Paleoenvironmental and Paleoclimatic ReconstructionsThe Middle Eocene Climatic Optimum (MECO; ~40 Ma), which interrupted for ~500–600 kyr the long-term cooling trend culminating at the Eocene/Oligocene boundary, still requires a comprehensive understanding of the biotic resilience. Here we... moreThe Middle Eocene Climatic Optimum (MECO; ~40 Ma), which interrupted for ~500–600 kyr the long-term cooling trend culminating at the Eocene/Oligocene boundary, still requires a comprehensive understanding of the biotic resilience. Here we present a high-resolution integrated foraminiferal and calcareous nannofossil study across the MECO from the expanded and continuous Tethyan Baskil section (eastern Turkey) that offers a complete magneto-biostratigraphic and geochemical framework. The five MECO phases identified reveal a transition from oligotrophic (pre-MECO) to eu-mesotrophic conditions, possibly related to accelerated hydrological cycle, during the initial MECO and MECO δ13C negative excursion phases. The MECO WARMING PEAK phase, marking the highest carbonate dissolution interval, records the most striking biotic changes, such as peak in warm and eutrophic nannofossils, virtual disappearance of the oligotrophic planktic foraminiferal large Acarinina and Morozovelloides, and peak...Save to LibraryDownloadby RODOLFO COCCIONI•  5  Stable Isotopes, Biostratigraphy, Paleoclimate, Applied SciencesModern drought conditions in western Sahel unprecedented in the past 1600 yearsAs climate model uncertainties remain very large for future rainfall in the Sahel, a multi-centennial perspective is required to assess the situation of current Sahel climate in the context of global warming. We present here the first... moreAs climate model uncertainties remain very large for future rainfall in the Sahel, a multi-centennial perspective is required to assess the situation of current Sahel climate in the context of global warming. We present here the first record of hydrocli-matic variability over the past 1600 years in Senegal, obtained from stable oxygen isotope analyses (δ 18 O) in archaeological shell middens from the Saloum Delta. During the preindustrial period, the region was relatively humid, with maximum humidity reached during the period from AD 1500 to AD 1800, referred to as the Little Ice Age. A significant negative link is observed at the centennial scale between global temperature and humidity in the Sahel that is at odds with the expected effects of latitudinal shifts of the intertropical convergence zone during the last millennium. In the context of the past 1600 years, the Western Sahel appears to be experiencing today unprecedented drought conditions. The rapid aridification that started ca. AD 1800 and the recent emergence of Sahel drought from the natural variability point to an anthropogenic forcing of Sahel drying trend. This new long-term perspective suggests that the recovery of Sahel rainfall in the last decade may only result from short-term internal variability, and supports climate models that predict an increase of Sahel drought under future greenhouse climate.Save to LibraryDownloadby Manuel CHEVALIER•  4  Climate Change, Africa, Paleoclimate, SahelEmpirical analysis of the solar contribution to global mean air surface temperature changeSave to LibraryDownloadby Nicola Scafetta•  15  Climate Change, Paleoclimate, Variability, SolOn the stability of the atmosphere-vegetation system in the Sahara/Sahel regionSave to LibraryDownloadby Guwa Tari•  11  Nonlinear dynamics, Paleoclimate, Multidisciplinary, Surface RoughnessBelize Archaeology Symposium 2018 (abstract): The climatic and environmental context for the formation and decline of Maya societies in the Belize River ValleyArchaeologists are placing an increasing emphasis on the role of climate change in the development and demise of ancient Maya civilization. While research has focused primarily on the "collapse " of lowland Maya polities during the... moreArchaeologists are placing an increasing emphasis on the role of climate change in the development and demise of ancient Maya civilization. While research has focused primarily on the "collapse " of lowland Maya polities during the Terminal Classic period (~AD 750-900/1000), which has been correlated with evidence for severe drought, the establishment and growth of earlier Maya communities was also significantly impacted by climatic variability. In this paper we review regional paleoclimate proxy data and archaeological evidence from western Belize to provide a framework for understanding the complex human-environment dynamics that influenced localized adaptations to climate change. These data suggest that communities living in the Belize Valley and surrounding areas experienced episodic growth and decline in response to climatic variability as early as the Preclassic period (1200 BC-AD 300). A multi-century dry period at the beginning of the Preclassic coincides with archaeological evidence for the initial appearance of permanently settled agricultural villages across the region between ~1200-900 BC. Wetter climatic conditions likely fostered the centralization of growing populations and the formation of large regional polities, which continued to expand despite an extended drought at the end of the Preclassic from AD 150-300. During the Classic period (AD 300-900/1000), intensified reliance on maize agriculture, demographic increase, and anthropogenic landscape degradation created less flexible human-environment systems that ultimately contributed to the disintegration of political systems in response to drought conditions, resulting in the large-scale depopulation of the Belize Valley and elsewhere in western Belize by the beginning of the eleventh century.Save to LibraryDownloadby Claire Ebert and +1Jaime Awe•  2  Paleoclimate, Ancient MayaPaleoenvironmental events during the last 13,000 years in the central Red Sea as recorded by pteropodaSave to LibraryDownloadby Christoph Hemleben•  19  Geochemistry, Oceanography, Paleoclimatology, PaleoceanographyTaphonomic constraints on foliar physiognomic interpretations of Late Cretaceous and Tertiary palaeoclimatesSave to LibraryDownloadby David R Greenwood•  6  Australia, Taphonomy, Paleoclimate, Taphonomy and PaleoecologyCorrelation of Himalayan exhumation rates and Asian monsoon intensityAlthough most data suggest that the India–Eurasia continental collision began approx 45–55 Myr ago, the architecture of the Himalayan–Tibetan orogen is dominated by deformational structures developed in the Neogene period (&lt; 23 Myr... moreAlthough most data suggest that the India–Eurasia continental collision began approx 45–55 Myr ago, the architecture of the Himalayan–Tibetan orogen is dominated by deformational structures developed in the Neogene period (&lt; 23 Myr ago). The stratigraphic record and thermochronometric data indicate that erosion of the Himalaya intensified as this constructional phase began and reached a peak around 15 Myr ago. It remained high until approx 10.5 Myr ago and subsequently slowed gradually to approx 3.5 Myr ago, but then ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Kip Hodges•  19  Geology, Geophysics, Paleoceanography, TectonicsResponse of eolian geomorphic systems to minor climate change: examples from the southern Californian desertsSave to LibraryDownloadby Nicholas  Lancaster•  19  Geology, Geomorphology, Climate Change, Wind EnergyLate Pleistocene-Holocene climate transition in the western Mediterranean: a view from the stable isotopes of land snail shellsLate Pleistocene and Holocene archaeological deposits from the central Mediterranean regions contain abundant terrestrial gastropod shell remains. Stable isotope studies of their shell carbonate are valuable proxies for various aspects of... moreLate Pleistocene and Holocene archaeological deposits from the central Mediterranean regions contain abundant terrestrial gastropod shell remains. Stable isotope studies of their shell carbonate are valuable proxies for various aspects of climate and environmental change such as temperature, hydrological sources and balance, as well as vegetation. Here we present stable carbon and oxygen isotope data of snail shells from several archaeological deposits in the western Mediterranean (Iberian, Italian Peninsula and Sicily). Isotope ratios differ remarkably between the Late Pleistocene, Holocene and modern shells. The results can be interpreted in terms of hydrological variations and changes in vegetation over time. Fossil shells offer the opportunity to examine the effects of past climate change on local and regional environments.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andre Carlo Colonese•  6  Mediterranean prehistory, Archaeozoology, Paleoclimate, Mediterranean archaeologyIRANIAN HIGHLANDS, CONCEPTS OF RESILIENCE FOR THE STUDY OF PREMODERNSOCIETIES, 5-6 December 2020Palaeoenvironmental Change and Resilience of Dryland EcosystemsSave to LibraryDownloadby Babak Rafiei-Alavi بابک رفیعی علوی•  6  Paleoclimatology, Iranian Archaeology, Resilience (Sustainability), PaleoclimateHolocene coastal dune fields used as indicators of net littoral transport: West Coast, USASave to LibraryDownloadby Roger Hart•  24  Geology, Geomorphology, Coastal Dunes, PaleoclimateRoy et al 2012 QSRSave to LibraryDownloadby Priyadarsi D. Roy•  5  Geochemistry, Paleoclimate, Mexico, North American MonsoonAtlas of Devonian Paleogeographic MapsThis Atlas of Devonian Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Lochkovian (413.6 Ma) to the Devono-Carboniferous Boundary (359.2 Ma). The maps are from volume 4 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese,... moreThis Atlas of Devonian Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Lochkovian (413.6 Ma) to the Devono-Carboniferous Boundary (359.2 Ma).  The maps are from volume 4 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2014). Absolute age assignments are from Gradstein, Ogg & Smith (2008).  An additional map showing the disposition of the three major early Devonian faunal provinces (Malvinokaffric, Appalachian, and Rhenish-Bohemian; Cocks & Torsvik, 2002; Figure 9.) has also been included. The following maps are included in the Atlas of Devonian Paleogeographic Maps:Map 65  Devono-Carboniferous Boundary (359.2 Ma) Transgressive Systems TrackMap 66  Late Devonian (early Famennian, 370.3 Ma) Tournasian Supersequence Boundary  Map 67  Late Devonian (Frasnian, 379.9 Ma) Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 68  Middle Devonian (Givetian,388.2 Ma) Frasnian Supersequence BoundaryMap 69  Middle Devonian (Eifelian, 394.3 Ma) Transgressive Systems TractMap 70  Early Devonian (Emsian, 402.3 Ma) Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 71  Early Devonian (Pragian, 409.1 Ma) Emsian Supersequence BoundaryMap 72  Early Devonian (Lochkovian, 413.6 Ma) Lochkovian Supersequence BoundaryExtra Map – Early Devonian BiogeographyThis atlas contains an “extra” map that shows the geographic distribution of three imp0ortant early Devonian biogeographic provinces: The Appalachian Province, the Rhenish-Bpohmeian Province, and the Malvino-Kaffric Province.  The Appalachian and Rhenish-Bohemian provinces were populated by warm-water brachiopod faunas the occupied the subtropics. Though they inhabited the same latitudinal zones, they were separated by the Caledonian-Acadian mountain ranges.  It is interesting to note that Appalachian faunas appear both in the Applachina Basin of the eastern U.S. and also in northern South America (Colombia and the Amazon Basin).  Similarly, the Rhenish-Bohemian faunas are found in Northern Africa, Arabia, Central Europe, and eastern Avalonia (northern France, Belgium, and southern England). The less diverse Malvino-Kaffirc province occupied cooler latitudes closer to the South Pole. The geographic distribution of these distinct, early Devonian faunal provices provides an important clue regarding the relative positions of Laurentia (North America), Baltic and Gondwana.  Eastern North America was adjacent to northern South America (Venezuela & Colombia) and England and Central Europe were separated by a narrow ocean from northern Africa. The South Pole was located in the vicinity of southern Brazil. This work should be cited asScotese,  C.R., 2014.  Atlas of Devonian Paleogeographic Maps, PALEOMAP Atlas for ArcGIS, volume 4, The Late Paleozoic, Maps 65-72, Mollweide Projection, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  16  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyMap Folio 27, Early Cretaceous, (early Aptian, 121.8 Ma)2013.33 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.33 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  15  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyMap Folio 54, Early Permian (Artinskian, 280 Ma)These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software,... moreThese maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.A set of seven atlases has been compiled for each of the principal climatic variables: Temperature (Scotese and Moore, 2014a), Atmospheric Pressure and Winds (Scotese and Moore, 2014b),  Rainfall and Runoff (Scotese and Moore, 2014c), Ocean Currents and Salinity (Scotese & Moore, 2014d), Upwelling (Scotese and Moore, 2014e), Anoxia (Scotese, 2014b), and Lithologic Indicators of Climate (Scotese, Boucot and Xu, 2014).   These atlases show the FOAM simulation results for all 18 time intervals (Figure 1).(More discussion about the maps in this folio in the near future.)This map folio should be referenced as:Scotese, C.R., 2013. Map Folio 54, Early Permian (Artinskian, 280 Ma), PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS, volume 4, Late Paleozoic Paleogeographic, Paleoclimatic and Plate Tectonic Reconstructions, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  24  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, Climate ChangeImpacts of tectonic and orbital forcing on East African climate: a comparison based on global climate model simulationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Frank Kaspar and +1Ulrich Cubasch•  9  Human Evolution, East Africa, Tectonics, erosion and climate, PaleoclimateEarth's Climate Past and FutureSave to LibraryDownloadby Harman Dwi  Rachmadhan•  5  Geology, Oceanography, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyMap Folio 41, Early Jurassic (Sinemurian, 193 Ma)2013.47 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.47 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  19  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleomagnetismSize variation in Tachyoryctes splendens (East African mole-rat) and its implications for late Quaternary temperature change in equatorial East AfricaThis study develops a new proxy for Quaternary temperature change in tropical Africa through analysis of size variation in East African mole-rat (Tachyoryctes splendens). In modern mole-rats, mandibular alveolar length is unrelated to... moreThis study develops a new proxy for Quaternary temperature change in tropical Africa through analysis of size variation in East African mole-rat (Tachyoryctes splendens). In modern mole-rats, mandibular alveolar length is unrelated to annual precipitation, precipitation seasonality, temperature seasonality, or primary productivity. However, it is inversely correlated with mean annual temperature, in agreement with Bergmann&#39;s rule. This relationship is observed at temperatures below ∼17.3 °C, but not at higher temperatures. We apply these observations to late Quaternary mole-rats from Wakondo (∼100 ka) and Kisaaka (∼50 ka) in the Lake Victoria region and Enkapune ya Muto (EYM; ∼7.2–3.2 ka) in Kenya&#39;s central rift. The Lake Victoria mole-rats are larger than expected for populations from warm climates typical of the area today, implying cooler temperatures in the past. The magnitude of temperature decline needed to drive the size shift is substantial (∼4–6 °C), similar in magn...Save to LibraryDownloadby Curtis Marean•  9  Earth Sciences, Paleontology, Paleoclimatology, PaleoenvironmentPlate Tectonics  (Flipbook)This "flipbook", which illustrates the plate tectonic development of the continents and ocean basins during the past 750 million years, was assembled to commemorate the scientific career of Professor Rob van der Voo. The flipbook... moreThis "flipbook", which illustrates the plate tectonic development of the continents and ocean basins during the past 750 million years, was assembled to commemorate the scientific career of Professor Rob van der Voo.   The flipbook consists of 34 plate tectonic reconstructions that map the past location of subduction zones (barbed lines), mid-ocean ridges, (dashed lines), and collision zones (marked x's). The tectonic reconstructions are based on the global plate tectonic model developed by the PALEOMAP Project.   The latitudinal orientation of the continents is derived largely from paleomagnetic data collected by Professor van der Voo (xref).   Hot spots tracks and sea floor spreading isochrons (Seton et al., 2012) were used to constrain the longitudinal position of the continents back to  ~200 million years.  Plate tectonic reconstructions older than 200 million years are necessarily more speculative and have been derived by combining diverse lines of evidence from the tectonic histories of the continents (e.g., timing of continent-continent collisions or ages of rifting), the distribution of paleoclimatic indicators (i.e coals, tillites, salt deposits, and bauxites, see Boucot et al., 2013), and in some case, the biogeographic affinities of fossil faunas and floras. Though a diverse data has been used to produce these reconstructions, this data, itself, is not  enough.  So much time has passed and so little direct evidence is preserved that guidance must also be sought from the "Rules of Plate Tectonics".Plates do not move randomly but evolve in a manner that is consistent with the forces that drive them.  The principal driving forces are: slab pull, ridge push and trench rollback.  These forces shape the plates and provide important insights into how plate boundaries will evolve.  Simply said, plates will only move if they are pulled by a subducting slab or pushed by the forces exerted by a mature ridge system. The evolving plate boundaries have been drawn to follow this maxim.  It is also important to note that plate tectonics is a "catastrophic" system.  Though "slow and steady" is the general rule, once every hundred million years or so, a major plate tectonic reorganization occurs. These "plate tectonic catastrophes" most often occur when mid-ocean ridges are subducted or when major continents collide. (For a more complete listing of the "Rules of Plate Tectonics", the reader is referred to XXXXXX.The first "continental drift" flipbook was pushed as an undergraduate research project (Scotese, 1974; 1975abc). Subsequent editions have followed (1976ab; 1978; 1979; 1980;   1990, 1991, 1997, 2004). A more complete description of the data and information that is used to produce the flipbooks can be found in Scotese (2004).  These maps could not have been produced without the GPlates plate modelling software and the tectonic data sets published by Dietmar Müller and his team at Earthbytes.Special thanks to Maggie Geiger, and Robert and Jonathan Scotese for their help assembling this flipbook. Time ScaleThe age given next to each map represents age in millions of years.  The corresponding geological ages (Ogg et al., 2008)  are:0    Modern World20 Ma  Early Miocene40 Ma  late Middle Eocene60 Ma  Paleocene80 Ma  Late Cretaceous - Campanian100 Ma  Early Cretaceous - late Albian120 Ma  Early Cretaceous - early Aptian140 Ma  Early Cretaceous - Berriasian160 Ma  Late Jurassic - Oxfordian180 Ma  Early Jurassic - Toarcian200 Ma  Triassic/Jurassic boundary220 Ma  Late Triassic - Carnian240 Ma  Middle Triassic - Anisian260 Ma  Middle Permian - Capitanian280 Ma  Early Permian - Artinskian300 Ma  Late Pennsylvanian320 Ma  Late Mississippian340 Ma  Middle Mississippian360 Ma  Devono-Carboniferous380 Ma  Late Devonian - Frasnian400 Ma  Early Devonian - Emsian420 Ma  Late Silurian - Ludlow440 Ma  Early Silurian - Llandovery460 Ma  Middle Ordovician480 Ma  Early Ordovician500 Ma  Late Cambrian520 Ma  Middle Cambrian540 Ma  Cambrian-Precambrian560 Ma  Neoproterozoic - lt. Ediacaran600 Ma  Neoporterozoic - m. Ediacaran630 Ma  Neoproterozoic - e. Ediacaran660 Ma  Neoproterozoic - e. Ediacaran690 Ma  Neoproterozoic - lt. Cryogenian720 Ma  m. Cryogenian750 Ma  m. Cryogenian  References Cited Ogg, J., Ogg, G., and Gradstein, F.M., 2008. The Concise Geologic Time Scale, Cambridge University Press, 177 p. Scotese, C.R. 1974. First Flip Book Images (from 35mm film from PLATO System), Unpublished.Scotese, C.R., and Baker, D.W., 1975a. Continental drift reconstructions and animation, Journal of Geological Education, 23: 167-171.Scotese, C.R., 1975b.  Continental Drift Flip Book, 1stedition.Chicago, Illinois. (single page version Scotese, C.R., 1975c.  Continental Drift Flip Book, 1st edition. Chicago, Illinois. (double page version)Scotese, C.R., 1976a. Continental Drift “Flip Book”,  edition 1.5, Department of Geological Sciences, University of Illinois. ResearchGate   AcademiaScotese, C.R., 1976b. A continental drift “flip book", Computers & Geosciences, 2:113-116.Scotese, C.R., and Ziegler, A.M., 1978. Paleozoic continental drift reconstructions and animation, American Geophysical Union, 1978 Spring Annual Meeting, Eos, v. 59. Issue 4, p. 263.Scotese, C.R., 1979. Continental Drift (flip book), 2nd edition.Scotese, C.R., Snelson, S.S., and Ross, W.C., 1980. A computer animation of continental drift, J. Geomag. Geoelectr., 32: suppl. III, 61-70.Scotese, C.R., 1990. Atlas of Phanerozoic Plate Tectonic Reconstructions, PALEOMAP Progress 01-1090a, Department of Geology, University of Texas at Arlington, Texas, 57 pp.Scotese, C.R., 1991. Continental Drift Flip Book, 4th edition, PALEOMAP Project, Arlington, TX, 49 pp.Scotese, C.R., 1997.  Continental Drift Flip Book, 7th edition, PALEOMAP Project, Department of Geology, University of Texas at Arlington, Texas, 80 pp. Scotese, 2004.Seton et al., 2012.Van der Voo,  R., 1993. Paleomagnetism of the Atlantic, Tethys, and Iapetus Oceans, Cambridge University Press, 411 p.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  11  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleoceanography, PaleoclimateMap Folio 19, Late Cretaceous (Early Campanian, 80.3 Ma)2013.25 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.25 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  11  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyPhanerozoic Paleoclimate: An Atlas of Lithologic Indicators of Climate2013.03Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•PaleoclimateMap Folio 86, Middle Cambrian, (520 Ma)This map folio should be referenced as: Scotese, C.R., 2013. Map Folio 86, Middle Cambrian, (520 Ma), PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS, volume 5, Early Paleozoic Paleogeographic, Paleoclimatic and Plate Tectonic Reconstructions, PALEOMAP... moreThis map folio should be referenced as:Scotese, C.R., 2013. Map Folio 86, Middle Cambrian, (520 Ma), PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS, volume 5, Early Paleozoic Paleogeographic, Paleoclimatic and Plate Tectonic Reconstructions, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.Also see: Scotese,  C.R., 2014.  Atlas of Cambrian and Early Ordovician Paleogeographic Maps (Mollweide Projection), Maps 81 – 88, Volumes 5, The Early Paleozoic, PALEOMAP Atlas for ArcGIS, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL, https://www.academia.edu/16785571/Atlas_of_Cambrian_and_Early_Ordovician_Paleogeographic_MapsIntroductionThese maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the one used by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  15  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyA fossil coryphoid palm from the Paleocene of western CanadaPalms (Arecaceae) are iconic plant fossils, providing evidence of warm climates in the geological past in geographical areas that today support temperate, boreal or even polar climates. Fossil palm leaves are well known from Paleocene... morePalms (Arecaceae) are iconic plant fossils, providing evidence of warm climates in the geological past in geographical areas that today support temperate, boreal or even polar climates. Fossil palm leaves are well known from Paleocene sites in the U.S.A., including Montana, Washington, and Alaska. Palm megafossils are unknown, however, from the Canadian Paleocene. Here, palms from the Scollard Formation of Alberta are described and illustrated from the early Paleocene Genesee locality, central Alberta. These fossil palm leaves are fan palms (Subfamily Coryphoideae), but the limited diagnostic information of leaf fragments prevents assignment to a palm tribe. The Genesee megaflora represents a broad-leaf deciduous boreal forest growing under a temperate moist climate. The Genesee palm fossils demonstrate the northernmost Paleocene palms known from leaf fossils east of the Rocky Mountains, and are tiny at b 15 cm, likely reflecting plants growing at their cold northern limit.Save to LibraryDownloadby David R Greenwood•  6  Paleobotany, Paleoclimate, Canada, PalmsMap Folio 17, Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian, 68 Ma)2012.23 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2012.23 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  11  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyUn gisement sparnacien exceptionnel à plantes, arthropodes et vertébrés (Éocène basal, MP7): Le Quesnoy (Oise, France)Save to LibraryDownloadby HERVET Sophie•  10  Paleoclimate, Flora, Fauna, ForestsAtlas of Early Cretaceous Paleogeographic Maps2014.10 This Atlas of Early Cretaceous Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Berriasian (143 Ma) to the late Albian (101.8 Ma). The maps are from volume 2 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2014).... more2014.10 This Atlas of Early Cretaceous Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Berriasian (143 Ma) to the late Albian (101.8 Ma).  The maps are from volume 2 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2014).Also numeric time values are from Gradstein, Ogg & Smith (2008).  For several stages there are versions of the map that show maximum sea level (maximum flooding surface) or minimum sea level (supersequence boundary) during that time interval. The following maps are included in the Atlas of Early Cretaceous Paleogeographic Maps: Map 23  Early Cretaceous (late Albian, 101.8 Ma)Map 24  Early Cretaceous (middle Albian, 106 Ma)Map 25  Early Cretaceous (early Albian, 110 Ma)  Albian Supersequence Boundary and Transgressive System TractMap 26  Early Cretaceous (late Aptian, 115.2 Ma)Map 27  Early Cretaceous (early Aptian, 121.8 Ma)Map 28  Early Cretaceous (Barremian, 127.5 Ma)Map 29  Early Cretaceous (Hauterivian, 132 Ma)Map 30  Early Cretaceous (Valanginian, 137 Ma) Barremian-Hauterivian Supersequence boundary and Transgressive Systems TractMap 31  Early Cretaceous (Berriasian, 143 Ma) Berriasian Supersequence boundary and Maximum Flooding Surface This work should be cited asScotese,  C.R., 2014.  Atlas of Early Cretaceous Paleogeographic Maps, PALEOMAP Atlas for ArcGIS, volume 2, The Cretaceous, Maps 23-31, Mollweide Projection, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  17  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleomagnetism, PaleoclimatologyHow wet was the Arctic Eocene rainforest? Estimates of precipitation from Paleogene Arctic macrofloras.The Eocene was the warmest part of the Cenozoic, when warm climates extended into the Arctic, and substantive paleobotanical evidence indicates broadleaf and coniferous polar forests. Paleontological temperature proxies provide a basis... moreThe Eocene was the warmest part of the Cenozoic, when warm climates extended into the Arctic, and substantive paleobotanical evidence indicates broadleaf and coniferous polar forests. Paleontological temperature proxies provide a basis for understanding Arctic early Paleogene climates; however, there is a lack of corresponding proxy data on precipitation. Both leaf physiognomic analysis and quantitative analysis of nearest living relatives of an Arctic macrofl ora indicate upper microthermal to lower mesothermal moist climates (mean annual temperature ~13–15 °C; cold month mean temperature ~4 °C; mean annual precipitation>120 cm/yr) for Axel Heiberg Island in the middle Eocene. Leaf-size analysis of Paleocene and Eocene Arctic fl oras demonstrates high precipitation for the Paleogene western andeastern Arctic. The predicted enormous volume of freshwater entering the Arctic Ocean as a result of northward drainage of a signifi cant region of the Northern Hemisphere under ahigh-precipitation regime would have strongly affected Arctic Ocean salinity, potentially supporting Arctic Ocean Azolla blooms. High Paleogene precipitation around the Arctic Basinis consistent with high atmospheric humidity, which would have contributed signifi cantly to polar, and global, Eocene warming.Save to LibraryDownloadby David R Greenwood•  7  Paleobotany, Paleoclimate, Canada, EoceneMap Folio 35, Late Jurassic (Oxfordian, 158.4 Ma)2013.41 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.41 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  12  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, Paleoclimatology Elefanti a RomaC’erano elefanti in Italia prima dell'arrivo di Pirro? E 'difficile immaginare che due o trecentomila anni fa la campagna romana era attraversato da branchi di elefanti, ma il territorio di Roma è tra i più ricchi al mondo per l’enorme... moreC’erano elefanti in Italia prima dell'arrivo di Pirro? E 'difficile immaginare che due o trecentomila anni fa la campagna romana era attraversato da branchi di elefanti, ma il territorio di Roma è tra i più ricchi al mondo per l’enorme quantità di siti con resti fossili databili tra il Pliocene e il Pleisocene. I primi ritrovamenti risalgono alla metà del 500 e continuano fino alla urbanizzazione moderna, che ha sepolto sotto il cemento, un grande quantità di siti in cui erano stati scoperti resti fossiliLa campagna romana costituiva, nel passato, un ambiente particolarmente favorevole, sia per gli esseri umani e per gli altri mammiferi. Tra i numerosi animali che hanno accompagnato la presenza dell'uomo in queste terre, gli elefanti costituiscono una realtà curiosa, quasi incredibile da immaginare oggi nei territori altamente antropizzati della capitale italiana.I protagonisti di questo libro sono gli elefanti e le loro relazioni con l'ambiente e gli esseri umani nel corso del tempo. Gli argomenti trattati comprendono, problematiche geologiche climatiche e ambientali e inoltre molti temi di carattere paleontologico, antropologico ed evolutivo.Per la prima volta sono pubblicati tutti i dati relativi alle centinaia di resti fossili di elefanti rinvenuti nel tempo nel territorio di Roma. Inoltre sono presentati siti e musei in cui è possibile acquisire informazioni più dettagliate.Infine sono presi in considerazione  i problemi legati al ruolo di questo grande mammifero nell'immaginario collettivo, dalla sua rappresentazione nell'arte preistorica fino alla sua influenza, reale e simbolica, nella storia antica e la sua iconografia in epoca classica. There were elephants in Italy before the arrival of Pyrrhus? It is difficult to imagine that two or three hundred thousand years ago the Roman Campagna was crossed by herds of elephants, however the Rome territory is among the richest in the world for prehistoric fossil evidences connected with the oldest prehistory. The first findings date back to the mid-500 and continue until the modern urbanization which has buried under concrete, a lot of sites where the fossils were discoveredThe Roman Campagna constituted, in the past, a particularly favorable environment, both for humans and for other mammals. Among the numerous animals that have gone together with the man presence in these lands, the elephants are a curious reality, almost incredible to imagine today in the highly anthropized quarters of Italian capital.The leading actors of this book are elephants and their relationships with the environment and humans over time. The discussed topics include environmental, geological and climatic issues and moreover paleontological, anthropological, and evolutive questions.For the first time are published all the data related to the hundreds of fossil remains of elephants in the territory of Rome. Furthermore the museum-areas, where you can acquire more detailed information are described.Finally, problems linked to the role of this large mammal in the collective imagination, from its representation in prehistoric art up to his influence, real and symbolic, in ancient history and its iconography in classical times, are focused."""Save to LibraryDownloadby Patrizia Gioia•  39  Archaeology, Maritime Archaeology, Paleontology, GeoarchaeologyCarolina Bay Formation and Evolution: Kaczorowski was RightCarolina bays are oriented, shallow upland ponds occurring on the Atlantic Coastal Plain from New Jersey to North Florida. Historically, Carolina bays have received attention from those speculating on a catastrophic emplacement through... moreCarolina bays are oriented, shallow upland ponds occurring on the Atlantic Coastal Plain from New Jersey to North Florida.  Historically, Carolina bays have received attention from those speculating on a catastrophic emplacement through cometary, meteoric, or airburst impacts.  Recently, it has even been speculated that bays formed from steam outgassing within superheated distal ejecta from an impact over the Great Lakes region.  In this scenario, Quaternary-aged cover sands along the eastern seaboard, including "enigmatic" sand ridge scarps (e.g., Goldsboro Scarp) and Carolina bays, are purported to be causally linked to a catastrophic impact.  Carolina bay shape, orientation, and sand rims are all used as evidence for an alignment with an impact crater not observed and not known to exist.  Other researchers have posited that bays are linked with the purported Younger Dryas comet impact/airburst at ca. 12.9 ka, whereby bay formation was through aerial air-bursts or through a rain of distal impact ejecta to form oblique craters.While these claims persist, our data indicate that Carolina bay origin and evolution are much better explained through more mundane, uniformitarian processes.  The evidence gathered from Carolina bays in South Carolina and beyond demonstrate bay genesis as oriented lakes and formation through lacustrine processes of wind on shallow ponded water.  Ray Kaczorowski's wind table modeling in 1977 revealed quite clearly how unidirectional winds on ponded water produce subaqueous circulation cells that shape and orient the bays, while constructing their sand rims as high-energy shoreline features.  More recent work, including GPR, granulometry, OSL dating, and evidence from examination of LiDAR data, reveals that bays reflect long-term, pervasive and evolving environmental and climatological factors over millennia, not sudden or catastrophic events.  Thus, a catastrophic origin is neither supported by geological data, nor needed to explain features we attribute to Carolina bays; Carolina bays are neither enigmatic, nor mysterious, but rather are relatively well understood oriented lakes.  While nuances of bay formation through lacustrine shore processes remain to be resolved, the fundamental concepts are well understood and have been for some time.  Kaczorowski was right!Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher  Moore•  8  Geomorphology, Coastal Geomorphology, Quaternary Geology, Luminescence DatingMap Folio 11, late Middle Eocene (38.8 Ma)2013.17 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.17 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  7  Geology, Paleontology, Paleoclimatology, TectonicsEpi-Paleolitik ve Neolitik Dönemde Göç Hareketleri (İklim Değişikliği, Bitki Örtüsü Ve Hayvan Popülasyonuna Bağlı Olarak)Bu makalenin konusu, Epipaleolitik ve Neolitik dönemde, Asya’dan Avrupa’ya olan insan hareketlerinin ve göçün, Anadolu’da yapılan klimatik, faunal ve floral araştırmalar ışığında aydınlatılmasına dayanmaktadır. Anadolu ve yakın... moreBu makalenin konusu, Epipaleolitik ve Neolitik dönemde, Asya’dan Avrupa’ya olan insan hareketlerinin ve göçün, Anadolu’da yapılan klimatik, faunal ve floral araştırmalar ışığında aydınlatılmasına dayanmaktadır. Anadolu ve yakın coğrafyalarda (Balkanlar ve Orta Doğu dahil) yapılan paleo-klimatik, makro-faunal ve paleo-botanik araştırmalar bu çalışmada incelenmiştir. Mevcut kanıtların sentezleri doğrultusunda Epi-paleolitik ve Neolitik çağlarda yaşanmış önemli iklimsel değişikliklerin olduğu ve bu olayların insan topluluklarını önemli ölçüde etkilediği görülmektedir. Ayrıca incelenen faunal ve floral araştırmalar Epipaleolitik ve Neolitik insan topluluklarının sosyal organizasyonları, avcıtoplayıcı yaşam biçimleri, arazi kullanımı, hayvan tercihleri, ekonomileri ve beslenmeleri hakkında da önemli bilgiler sunmaktadır.Save to LibraryDownloadby İlhan Çağdaş Dönmez•  8  Paleoclimatology, Paleoenvironment, Paleoecology, Neolithic ArchaeologyAtlas of Neogene Paleogeographic Maps2014.07 This Atlas of Neogene Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Early Miocene (Auquitanian & Burdigalian, 19.5 Ma) to the Present-day. The maps are from volume 1 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS... more2014.07 This Atlas of Neogene Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Early Miocene (Auquitanian & Burdigalian, 19.5 Ma) to the Present-day.  The maps are from volume 1 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2014). Absolute age assignments are from Ogg, Ogg & Gradstein (2008). For Maps 3, 5 and 7, there are two versions of the paleogeography. One map shows the maximum highstand sea level (maximum flooding surface). The other map shows the minimum lowstand sea level (supersequence boundary). For each paleogeography there is an estimate of sea level change, in meters, relative to present-day sea level.   The following maps are included in the Atlas of Neogene Paleogeographic Maps: Map 01  Modern World (Holocene, 0.0 Ma) Transgressive Systems Tract Map 02  Last Glacial Maximum (Pleistocene, 21,000 years ago) Anthropocene Supersequence Boundary  Map 03  Plio-Pleistocene, (Gelasian & Piacenzian, 2.588 Ma Ma) Lowstand Systems TractMap 04  Latest Miocene (Messinian Event, 6.3 Ma) Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 05  Middle/Late Miocene, (Serravallian and Tortonian, 10.5 Ma) Messinian Supersequence Boundary & Tortonian Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 06  Middle Miocene (Langhian, 14.9 Ma) Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 07  Early Miocene (Aquitanian & Burdigalian, 19.5 Ma) Serravallian Supersequence Boundary, Aquitanian Maximum Flooding Surface This Atlas should be cited as:Scotese,  C.R., 2014.  Atlas of Neogene Paleogeographic Maps (Mollweide Projection), Maps 1-7, Volume 1, The Cenozoic, PALEOMAP Atlas for ArcGIS, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.   References Cited Ogg, J.G., Ogg, G., Gradstein, F.M., 2008. The Concise Geologic Time Scale, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 177 pp. Scotese, C.R., 2014, The PALEOMAP Project PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS, version 2, Volume 1, Cenozoic Plate Tectonic, Paleogeographic, and Paleoclimatic Reconstructions,  Maps 1-15, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  12  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyAtlas of Jurassic Paleogeographic Maps2014.11 This Atlas of Jurassic Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Hettangian (198 Ma) to the Jurassic/Cretaceoous Boundary (145.5 Ma). The maps are from volume 3 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS... more2014.11 This Atlas of Jurassic Paleogeographic Maps shows the changing paleogeography from the Hettangian (198 Ma) to the Jurassic/Cretaceoous Boundary (145.5 Ma).  The maps are from volume 3 of the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2014). Absolute age assignments are from Gradstein, Ogg & Smith (2008).   The following maps are included in the Atlas of Jurassic Paleogeographic Maps: Map 32  Jurassic/Cretaceous Boundary (145.5 Ma) Berriasian Supersequence BoundaryMap 33  Late Jurassic (Tithonian, 148.2 Ma) Highstand Systems Track  Map 34  Late Jurassic (Kimmeridgian, 153.2) Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 35  Late Jurassic (Oxfordian, 158.4) Transgressive Systems TrackMap 36  Middle Jurassic (Callovian, 164.5 Ma) Transgressive Systems TractMap 37  Middle Jurassic (Bajocian & Bathonian, 169.7 Ma) Kimmeridgian-Oxfordian Supersequence Boundary & Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 38  Middle Jurassic (Aalenian, 173.2 Ma) Bathonian-Bajocian Supersequence BoundaryMap 39  Early Jurassic (Toarcian, 179.3 Ma) Toarcian Supersequence Boundary and Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 40  Early Jurassic (Pliensbachian, 186.3 Ma) Maximum Flooding SurfaceMap 41  Early Jurassic (Sinemurian, 193 Ma) Transgressive Systems TrackMap 42  Early Jurassic (Hettangian, 198 Ma) Pliensbachian Supersequence Boundary  This work should be cited asScotese,  C.R., 2014.  Atlas of Jurassic Paleogeographic Maps, PALEOMAP Atlas for ArcGIS, volume 3, The Jurassic and Triassic, Maps 32-42, Mollweide Projection, PALEOMAP Project, Evanston, IL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  18  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleomagnetismCronología, clima y subsistencia en el precerámico peruanoSave to LibraryDownloadby John Rick•  7  Paleoclimate, South American Archaeology, Chronology, Central Andean Preceramic PeriodUncertainty, emergence, and statistics in dendrochronologySave to LibraryDownloadby Neil Pederson•  4  Plant Ecology, Climate Change, Paleoclimate, Tree Ring, Dendrochronology, Climate ChangePetrography of the Late Cretaceous Bottom Conglomerate Formation from Sohra-Mawsynram area, East Khasi Hills District, Meghalaya, NE IndiaThe Late Cretaceous Bottom Conglomerate Formation from Khasi Group occurs as isolated and coalescent cones. Development of three discrete lithofacies namely clast supported and matrix supported boulder conglomerate, interstratified pebbly... moreThe Late Cretaceous Bottom Conglomerate Formation from Khasi Group occurs as isolated and coalescent cones. Development of three discrete lithofacies namely clast supported and matrix supported boulder conglomerate, interstratified pebbly conglomerate and granule conglomerate, and large scale tabular cross bedded pebbly conglomerate within the Bottom Conglomerate Formation represents the debris flow, mudflow and water-flow deposits of alluvial fan respectively. Proximity of this alluvial fan to Dawki fault indicates that this fault and its associated faults provided the basin depression, geomorphic contrast together with the climate favoring the debris flow process to build an alluvial fan. Thin section studies of the matrix of these conglomerates revealed quartzose wacke nature, indicating mineralogical maturity and textural immaturity of these sediments. The thin section studies also suggest prevalence of humid climate during deposition. The high proportion of zircon, and transparent heavy mineral assemblage of augite, rutile, monazite, sillimanite, spinel, sphene, dumortierite, and anatase, suggests that the sediments under study are derived from mixed provenance such as Proterozoic Supracrustal High Grade Granulite Metasediments, Gneissic Complex, Late Proterozoic Porphyritic Granitoids, Shillong Group, Khasi Metabasics with some inputs from the Sylhet Trap Basalts and their associated intrusives. Geochemical studies of these sediments support the mixed provenance for these sediments, and indicate humid climate during their deposition, thereby supporting the thin section and heavy mineral studies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Siddharth Barua•  6  Sedimentology, Paleoclimate, Cretaceous climate, Fluvial SedimentologyLa paleoecología en busca de los mayasEl papel de los paleoecologos en la investigación del clima pasado y de las huellas de la cultura Maya.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nuria  Torrescano Valle•  3  Paleoecology, Paleoclimate, Paleoambientes y paleoecologiaGlobal Warming for BeginnersThe best global warming explainer under 5,000 words on the internet. An up-to-date resource on the basics of climate science.  Last updated 08 September 2018.Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Bastian•  20  Climate Change, Paleoclimatology, Climate Change Adaptation, Adaptation to Climate ChangeMap  Folio 15,  Paleocene (60.6 Ma)2013.21 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.21 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  12  Geology, Paleontology, Paleoclimatology, PaleoceanographyMap Folio 23, Early Cretaceous (late Albian, 101.8 Ma)2013.29 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.29 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear, or plate caree map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  14  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleoclimatologyMap Folio 47, Middle Triassic (Anisian, 241.5 Ma)2013.53 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f). This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS... more2013.53 These maps (rectilinear projection) are from the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS (Scotese, 2013a-f).  This is a digital atlas of plate tectonic, paleogeographic, and paleoclimatic reconstructions designed for use with the GIS software, ArcMap (ESRI).  Table 1 lists the various types of maps that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The maps included in this folio are highlighted in bold text (Table 1).The last map in each folio is a rectilinear graticule that can be overlain on the maps to provide a geographic reference frame.  A rectilinear projection was used because it can be easily georeferenced in ArcMap and transformed into a variety of other map projections.  The rectilinear map projection can also be directly “wrapped” onto a spherical projection, like the oneused by Google Earth. A set of Google Earth paleoglobes has made from the maps in this folio. These Google Earth paleoglobes can be downloaded at: www.globalgeology.com.  If the map you need is missing, or if there doesn’t seem to be a map folio for the exact time interval of interest, please contact me (cscotese@gmail.com). Table 2 lists all the time intervals that comprise the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas for ArcGIS. The PaleoAtlas contains one map for every stage in the Phanerozoic, as well as 6 maps for the late Precambrian.  Eventually, Map Folios, like this one, will be published for every time interval in the PALEOMAP PaleoAtlas.  The following section is a brief description of the maps that makeup the Map Folio.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christopher Scotese•  21  Earth Sciences, Geology, Paleontology, PaleomagnetismCave Minerals of the WorldSave to LibraryDownloadby Bogdan Onac•  4  Geology, Mineralogy, Crystallography, PaleoclimateNextLast »Related TopicsPaleoclimatologyFollowFollowingPaleoecologyFollowFollowingPaleoceanographyFollowFollowingPaleoenvironmentFollowFollowingPalaeoecologyFollowFollowingPalaeoenvironmentFollowFollowingPaleontologyFollowFollowingGeologyFollowFollowingSedimentologyFollowFollowingStable isotope paleoclimatologyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023