Russia says it will fine Wikipedia for not deleting some details about the war : NPR
Accessibility links 
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
                    Open Navigation Menu
                
Newsletters
NPR Shop
>
                    Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design 
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
        Hip-Hop 50
    
        Tiny Desk
    
        All Songs Considered
    
        Music Features
    
        Live Sessions
    
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
                                    Morning Edition
                                
                                    Weekend Edition Saturday
                                
                                    Weekend Edition Sunday
                                
                                    All Things Considered
                                
                                    Fresh Air
                                
                                    Up First
                                
Featured
        Rough Translation
    
        Louder Than A Riot
    
        It's Been a Minute
    
        Life Kit
    
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
        Hip-Hop 50
    
        Tiny Desk
    
        All Songs Considered
    
        Music Features
    
        Live Sessions
    
About NPR
Diversity
Organization
NPR Network
Support
Careers
Connect
Press
Ethics
Russia says it will fine Wikipedia for not deleting some details about the war Russia's communications regulator says it will fine Wikipedia up to $47,000 for not complying with requests to take down information. It has made similar warnings to Google about YouTube videos.
Special Series Ukraine invasion — explained
The roots of Russia's invasion of Ukraine go back decades and run deep. The current conflict is more than one country fighting to take over another; it is — in the words of one U.S. official — a shift in "the world order."Here are some helpful stories to make sense of it all.
 
Russia threatens to fine Wikipedia if it doesn't remove some details about the war
Updated April 1, 20221:57 PM ET
                    Originally published April 1, 20221:18 PM ET
By  
      Rachel Treisman
    
Enlarge this image
                Russia's communications regulator is threatening to fine Google and Wikipedia for not removing what it describes as misinformation about the war in Ukraine.
                
                    
                    Chris Delmas/AFP via Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption
toggle caption
        
        Chris Delmas/AFP via Getty Images
        
    
Russia's communications regulator is threatening to fine Google and Wikipedia for not removing what it describes as misinformation about the war in Ukraine.
            
            Chris Delmas/AFP via Getty Images
            
        
The Russian government is threatening to fine Wikipedia if it doesn't remove content that contradicts its narrative about the war in Ukraine. Communications regulator Roskomnadzor announced on Thursday that it had asked the online encyclopedia to remove a page containing "unreliable socially significant materials, as well as other prohibited information" about its operations in Ukraine, according to an English translation. It accused the site of intentionally misinforming Russian users. 
Europe 
Are Russians able to get any real news about what's going in Ukraine?
It said it could fine Wikipedia up to 4 million rubles, or nearly $47,000, for failing to remove those materials, which are illegal under Russian law. Russia enacted legislation last month that criminalizes war reporting that doesn't echo the Kremlin's version of events — including by calling it a war. The law has forced most of Russia's remaining independent news outlets to close and many journalists to leave the country for fear of facing up to 15 years in prison. The Wikipedia page in question describes the history and context of the war, as well as specific military operations, casualties and humanitarian impact, human rights violations, legal proceedings, international reaction, economic consequences and media depictions. 
It is not clear what specific details the regulator is looking to have removed, but Newsweek reports that it said on Monday that the Russian-language version of the page contained "inaccurate information about the special military operation to protect the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics for the de-militarization and de-Nazification of Ukraine," including the use of the words war, aggression and invasion. 
 
Ukraine invasion — explained 
What Ukraine war news looks like from Russia
Roskomnadzor's announcement follows two separate warnings to the Wikimedia Foundation, which owns and operates the encyclopedia.  A spokesperson for the foundation told NPR over email that it had received demands on March 1 and again on March 29 to remove information from the Russian-language version of the page about the invasion, before learning of the possible fine.  "The Wikimedia Foundation supports everyone's fundamental right to access free, open, and verifiable information; this escalation does not change our commitment," the spokesperson said. The information on Wikipedia is sourced and shared by volunteers, with the foundation saying last month that Ukrainian volunteers were continuing to make additions and edits to the encyclopedia even as the war on their country unfolded. The spokesperson reiterated on Friday that the information within the article continues to be verified, fact-checked and "improved by an ever growing number of Wikipedia volunteer editors," who determine the site's content and editorial standards.  
"The Wikimedia Foundation protects and will continue to protect their ability to engage in research and contribute to Wikipedia," the spokesperson added.  
1A 
How Russia Is Stopping You From Knowing What It Doesn't Want You To Know
In a statement released after the first takedown request last month, the Wikimedia Foundation said the demand "threatened censorship," and that denying people access to reliable information at a time of crisis could have "life-altering consequences." As of March 3, they said the English-language version of the page had been viewed more than 11 million times, and articles about the war had been created in more than 99 languages. "Wikipedia is an important source of reliable, factual information in this crisis," the foundation wrote. "In recognition of this important role, we will not back down in the face of efforts to censor and intimidate members of our movement. We stand by our mission to deliver free knowledge to the world." Wikipedia isn't the only information platform facing such a request from Roskomnadzor. Just days ago, the agency warned it would fine Google up to 8 million rubles (more than $93,000) for not following its orders to remove YouTube videos to which it objected.  This story originally appeared on the Morning Edition live blog. 
online platforms
Russia Ukraine
Wikipedia
Censorship
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Special Series Ukraine invasion — explained
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
 
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor