Malay groups want vernacular schools abolished - The Malaysian Insider
41 captures
23 Aug 2010 - 27 May 2023
Jul
AUG
Jan
25
2009
2010
2011
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: alexa_web_2010
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20100825032917/http://www.themalaysianinsider.com:80/malaysia/article/malay-groups-want-vernacular-schools-abolished
Wednesday, 25 August 2010     Last Update: 11:23am
 
 
 
 
Top News
Malaysia
Business
World
Showbiz
Sports
Features
Opinion
Bahasa
Food
Books
Travel
About Us
To confront ‘torturers’, ex-airman’s freedom bid put on hold
PKFZ trial postponed over new papers
More grumble over Sarawak firm’s bid for Sabah gas project
Teaching women to save their own lives
Tiger to cancel 2 flights in Australia from Nov
Japan may mull solo yen-selling intervention
Stocks drubbed and yen gains as US housing teeters
US existing home sales dive to 15-year low in July
Final India decision on BlackBerry on Aug 30
Somali militants storm hotel, 31 dead includes MPs
China crash kills 42 as plane overshoots runway
Power cuts cast shadow over boiling Ramadan in Gaza
No appeal for Wyclef, says Haiti council
Lindsay Lohan awaits ruling on early rehab release
Paris Hilton woken by knife-wielding intruder
Stallone keeps Jolie from top UK movie spot
Defoe could face Young Boys, needs groin surgery
Braga shock Sevilla in Champions League playoff
Fulham sign Algeria defender Halliche
Russian champions Rubin sign striker Eduardo
Americans choose racket over remote control
Vine talk: Not all wines get better with age
Chinese vaccine shields against hepatitis E
Africa’s ambitious return of ancient rice
Ramadan oh Ramadan
Working in Wonderland
Diversity in a surau
Salahkah doakan agar mereka masuk Islam?
Kes PKFZ ditangguh 26 Okt
Taib sedia undur jika tak diperlukan, trend pengundi Cina bingungkan
Hudud: PAS mahu dengar pandangan Pemuda Gerakan Kedah
Nahas pesawat China 42 terbunuh
Farmerie says global cuisine should be focused
Closed-door eateries lure adventurous diners
How do you like your crabs. Try Tanka style!
What’s in this bottle of bubbly? A whole lot of history
The cost of living
‘Fahrenheit 451’ author burns at idea of digital books
Was James Bond just a ‘neo-fascist gangster’?
Coup, illness all part of writer Forsyth’s research
Related Articles
Perkasa, Ibrahim Ali, PRU 13: Satu mitos — Zaini Hassan
Persoal hak, Pemuda MCA dan MIC mahu polis siasat MPM
BN Youth minus Umno against MPM
Within the Four Seas, all men are brothers!
Pemuda MCA, MIC bidas MPM syor mansuh sekolah vernakular
MPM mahu tindakan ISA ke atas Soi Lek
Elegant silence on racism — The Malaysian Insider
Waysto getthe latestnews
 
 
Learn more about us
Malaysia
A: 
larger
smaller
reset
Email
Print
Malay groups want vernacular schools abolished
By Shazwan Mustafa Kamal
 August 22, 2010
MPM is demanding that all students be enrolled in a single school system. — Reuters picKUALA LUMPUR, Aug 22 — Malay rights groups today demanded the Najib administration abolish vernacular schools for a single national school system, saying the variety of school systems can lead to misunderstandings.
The Malay Consultative Council (MPM), the umbrella body for the Malay groups, said such misunderstanding could have led to recent reports that two school principals had uttered racist remarks and added that the police should instead investigate the complainants.
“There should be no compromise when talking about vernacular schools. I urge the government to abolish all vernacular schools and replace it with a single system,” MPM secretary-general Dr Hasan Mad told a press conference here.
The national school system with vernacular schools for Chinese and Tamil students is guaranteed under the Education Act.
Another MPM committee member, Datuk Seri Dr Mohd Hilmi Ismail, also claimed that their demands were not “unusual” as many other countries practised a single-school system.
“All of our neighbouring countries follow a standard system. Why must we be an extraordinary case?” said Hilmi.
The MPM also criticised MCA president Datuk Seri Dr Chua Soi Lek for his request last week seeking additional allocations for Chinese vernacular schools.
“Why give allocations to Chinese schools? Under the constitution, allocations should only be given to national schools.
“Why should Chinese, Tamil schools get allocations then? These schools should be abolished to pave way for a standard national school system for all races where Bahasa Malaysia, the national language, is the main language,” said Datuk Kamaruddin Kachar, another committee member.
Citing the recent case of two principals who were accused of uttering racial slurs in school, Kamaruddin claimed that students from vernacular schools who went to national schools had little understanding of the culture behind national schools.
“When this was reported, Deputy Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin did the right thing by ordering an investigation... why is it that only the principal is being attacked and condemned? What happened to the student that caused the principal to lose (her) temper like in Kedah?
“Teachers are already stressed out with the behaviour of school children. Now just because a student was scolded by the principal for doing something wrong, it suddenly becomes an issue?” said Kamaruddin.
A principal in Johor and her colleague in Kedah have caused public uproar for uttering racially-tinged statements to their students in the past 10 days. More than 20 police reports have been lodged while the Education Ministry has set up a task force to investigate the allegations.
Johor school principal Siti Inshah Mansor sparked national outrage when her allegedly racist remarks were reported, following a failed initial attempt by the Education Ministry to placate parents.
The SMK Tunku Abdul Rahman Putra principal had reportedly made the derogatory remarks during the launch of the school’s Merdeka celebrations.
“Chinese students are not needed here and can return to China or Foon Yew schools. For the Indian students, the prayer string tied around their neck and wrist makes them look like dogs because only dogs are tied like that,” Siti Inshah was quoted as saying in at least one police report.
The police are currently investigating the case under Section 504 of the Penal Code for provocation, which carries a maximum imprisonment of two years, a fine, or both.
On Friday, Muhyiddin also directed Education director-general Tan Sri Alimuddin Mohd Dom to set up a committee to investigate the matter. Alimuddin had earlier said it was a misunderstanding that had already been resolved.
However, on the same day, another principal, this time from Sungai Petani, Kedah was similarly accused of racism for allegedly telling her Chinese pupils to “return to China”.
The Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Bukit Selambau head was said to have accused the Chinese pupils of being insensitive towards their Muslim peers by eating in the school compound during the fasting month of Ramadan, and ordered them to return to China if they could not respect the culture of other races.
Share it with others
Malaysia
Bahasa
Business
To confront ‘torturers’, ex-airman’s freedom bid put on hold
PKFZ trial postponed over new papers
More grumble over Sarawak firm’s bid for Sabah gas project
Teaching women to save their own lives
Chinese face in government to dog BN Sarawak campaign
Kes PKFZ ditangguh 26 Okt
Taib sedia undur jika tak diperlukan, trend pengundi Cina bingungkan
Hudud: PAS mahu dengar pandangan Pemuda Gerakan Kedah
Nahas pesawat China 42 terbunuh
SOGT: Pemimpin politik, industri anggap kepentingan Sabah diketepikan
Tiger to cancel 2 flights in Australia from Nov
Japan may mull solo yen-selling intervention
Stocks drubbed and yen gains as US housing teeters
US existing home sales dive to 15-year low in July
Battle of anticoagulants to dominate heart meeting
        Breaking Views
Sanggupkah DAP, PKR, PAS isytihar pertahankan Perlembagaan? — Mohd Azim Syafi
Righting a wrong — Sakmongkol AK47
Perkasa, Ibrahim Ali, PRU 13: Satu mitos — Zaini Hassan
Social problems and competitiveness — Lim Sue Goan
‘Doing the right thing’ isn’t so simple — Mak Yuen Teen
24 Hours
1 Week
Unite or lose country, Dr M tells Malays
Dr M says meritocrats are racist too
Chinese face in government to dog BN Sarawak campaign
Zaid Ibrahim: Stop attacking Nurul Izzah
Sermon reader defends controversial prayer for Penang CM
Now, Kedah school principal accused of racism
MACC says to probe ‘Dr Pornthip – Fortune Teller’ blog post
BN Youth wants ‘racist’ school principal punished
Ibrahim Ali follows Tee, tells those who disagree to get out
Perkasa, MPM want Soi Lek arrested under ISA
Top News
Malaysia
Business
World
Showbiz
Sports
Features
Opinion
Bahasa
Food
Books
Travel
About Us
Copyright © 2010 The Malaysian Insider.    Designed for 1024 x 768 resolution.    This site is best viewed with Firefox.