Download your Currents data - Currents Help   Skip to main content   Currents HelpSign inGoogle HelpHelp CenterCurrentsPrivacy PolicySubmit feedback Send feedback on...This help content & informationGeneral Help Center experienceNextHelp CenterAnnouncementsCurrents   Currents is only available for Google Workspace accounts through work or school. Consumer accounts (typically ending in @gmail.com) were shut down on April 2nd, 2019.         Download your Currents dataYou can export and download your Currents data, including your Currents circles, Communities, Streams, and Likes. To learn more about what you can download, read Export your data from Google Currents.
Note: Downloading your Currents data does not delete your Currents profile. Learn how to delete your Currents profile.
Download all your Currents data
You can download an archive of all your Currents data at once, including your Currents circles, Communities, Streams, and Likes. Your Currents archive includes your photos and videos from Currents.
Go to the Download your data page. You might have to sign in. Your available Currents data will be preselected.
Click Next.
Choose a file type.
Choose your delivery method.
Click Create archive.
Download specific Currents data
Instead of downloading all of your data, you can download specific Currents data, like your photos, posts, communities, or events.
Important: If you want to download your photos and videos from Currents, make sure to select Photos under "Currents Stream."
Go to the Download your data page. You might have to sign in.
Next to the type of content you want to download, for example, Currents Stream, click the Down arrow .
Click Select specific data.
Select the specific data you want to download.
Click OK.
Click Next.
Choose a file type.
Choose your delivery method.
Click Create archive.
Save your photos and videos
Step 1: Download your photos and videos
Go to the Download your data page. You might have to sign in.
To download your photos and videos from Currents, make sure that "Currents Stream" is selected, click on "All Currents Stream data included" and make sure the Photos option is selected.
Click Next Step.
Choose a file type.
Choose your delivery method.
Click Create archive.
Note: Your archive may take minutes or days before it’s available.
Step 2: Save your photos and videos
For best results, follow these steps on a computer:
When your content is ready to download, you’ll get an email.
Open the email and click Download archive.
Sign in to your Google Account.
Next to your archive, click Download.
On your computer, go to the downloads folder, and open the file. Your photos will be in the "Photos" folder inside the "Currents Stream" folder that appears.
Optional: How to upload your content to Google Photos
After you download your photos to your device, you can store them on your device or upload them to Google Photos or another photo service.
There are 2 ways to back up your phone, camera, or storage card from your computer to Google Photos:
Install Google Drive for desktop.
Upload photos from your browser.
Learn how to back up photos to Google Photos.
Download Currents data for deleted Currents accounts
If you previously deleted your Currents account or your Currents page, we informed you that your photos and videos from Currents would continue to appear in your Album Archive and your Currents Events content wouldn’t be deleted. We will begin deleting this content on April 2, 2019. If you want to keep this content, download it using the above instructions before April 2019. Note: Photos and videos backed up in Google Photos will not be deleted.
Learn about types of Currents content you can download
Currents stream
To download content you created in Currents, like photos, events, and posts, select Currents Stream. You will get:
Posts you created, including comments, Likes, and other activity
Collections you created
Tags you follow
Photos you shared in your posts and comments
Currents circles
To download your circles data, select Currents circles. You will get:
First names
Last names
Nicknames
Display names
Currents profile URLs
Currents Communities
To download data for Communities where you’re an owner or moderator, select Currents Communities. You will get:
Names and links to Currents profiles of community owners, moderators, members, applicants, banned members, and invitees
Links to posts shared with the community
Community metadata, including community picture, community settings, content control settings, your role, and community categories
For public communities, you will also be able to download additional details including author, body, and photos for every community post.
   Was this helpful?How can we improve it?YesNoSubmit       true    Help1 of 13Currents settings2 of 13Use accessibility features in Currents3 of 13See and edit your Currents profile4 of 13Manage photos in Currents5 of 13Download your Currents data6 of 13Export your data from Google Currents7 of 13How Currents works for teens8 of 13Use less data in Currents9 of 13Change your profile's search results setting10 of 13Add or change your birthday on Currents11 of 13Teens & Currents12 of 13[DEPRECATED] See how influential your Currents profile is13 of 13Search in Currents           ©2023 Google   Privacy Policy   Google Currents Terms of Service     Deutsch‎español‎français‎Indonesia‎italiano‎Nederlands‎polski‎português (Brasil)‎svenska‎Türkçe‎русский‎‏العربيةไทย‎中文（简体）‎中文（繁體）‎日本語‎한국어‎ English‎         Enable Dark Mode   Send feedback on... This help content & information General Help Center experience       SearchClear searchClose searchGoogle appsMain menu                  true       Search Help Center  true   true   true        true true 245                false                         false 