Survivor Narratives: 1960 | Pacific Tsunami Museum
 
Visit us
Donate
Web Cam
  
About
Overview – Hours and Admission 
Mission 
History 
Organizational Structure 
Location Map 
Employment Opportunities 
Membership
Museum Membership 
Founders Club 
Remembrance Wall 
Community
Hilo Bay Web Camera 
Events 
Local Community Outreach
School Programs
Disaster Preparedness:
Tsunami Observer Program 
“Tsunami Ready” 
Tourism Promotions 
Publications
Community Awareness Initiative 
Group Education 
Global Community Outreach
Dr. Walter Dudley Projects 
Kobe, Japan Forum 
A Model For Thailand 
“Be One Tohoku” 
Safety
Overview 
Prepare Ahead of Time 
Know Natures Warning Signs 
What to do in case of a Distant Tsunami 
What to do in Case of a Locally Generated Tsunami 
What to do if you feel an Earthquake 
The Warning System 
Tsunami Safe Quck-Step Guide 
Are You in a Tsunami Evacuation Zone? 
Science
Science Overview 
What is a Tsunami? 
Tsunami Characteristics
Article “Tsunami and Science” 
What Causes a Tsunami? 
Tsunami Forecasting 
Tsunami Signs 
Test Your Knowledge 
Inundation, Runup and Damage
Runup Maps 
Animations 
Hoax Photos 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
Glossary 
Links for More Information 
Stories
Stories Overview 
Survivor Narratives
Survivor Narrtatives: 1946 
Survivor Narratives: 1946 
Survivor Narratives: 1946 
Survivor Narratives: 1946 
Survivor Narratives: 1946 
Survivor Narratives: 1946 
Survivor Narratives: 1960 
Survivor Narratives: 1960 
Survivor Narratives: 1960 
Survivor Narratives: 1960 
Survivor Narratives: 1960 
Survivor Narratives: 1960 
Survivor Narratives: 1975 
Survivor Narratives: 2004 
Survivor Narratives: 2004 
Survivor Narratives: 2010 
Survivor Video Interviews 
Archives
Archives Overview 
Collections 
Orders for Individuals 
Orders for Commercial Use 
Archive Donations 
Tsunami Images
1946: Hawaii, Big Island
1946:Tsunami Images 
1950: Tsunami Images 
1960 Tsunami Images 
1975 Tsunami Images 
2010 Tsunami Images 
2011 Tsunami Images 
Interactive Hilo Bay Map 
Survivor Narratives: 1960Home
 / 
Survivor Narratives: 1960
Fusayo Ito
A Lady to Remember
On Sunday afternoon, May 22, 1960, word was received in Hilo that an earthquake in Chile had generated a tsunami that would arrive at about midnight. Fusayo Ito felt safe and secure in her home in Waiakea. After all, tsunamis typically did not affect that area. 
Fusayo Ito
Fusayo even invited her friends, who lived nearer to the water, to spend the night at her house. They spent a pleasant evening visiting and listening to the radio for news. As 1:00 a.m. approached without event, Fusayo and her friends surmised that the tsunami, if there was one, was over. Her friends departed while Fusayo said goodbye at the door. 
At 1:04 a.m. Fusayo was completely taken by surprise when there was a deafening roar, as the 35-foot tsunami wave brought down her house around her. She was hit on the head and lost consciousness. Her next recollection was of coming to and finding herself swirling around in the bushes that lined the Wailoa River. Clinging to her screen door, she was washed up and down the river several times, and then finally, carried out into Hilo Bay amidst all the debris. 
Unable to swim, she spent the night riding the waves, plunging down into each trough only to be brought up again, swallowing water and clinging for her life. She was so scared that she couldn’t even cry, and she spent the night drifting farther and farther from shore. By morning’s light she found herself out past the breakwater. By now she had made her peace with her destiny, and a serenity took over that she described as beautiful. 
Damage to Waiākea Town after the 1960 Tsunami.
A pilot flying into Hilo that morning spotted something flash in the water and reported it to the Coast guard, who went out to investigate. Fusayo saw them approach and thought it was a ghost ship until she heard the sound of human voices. Taken to Hilo Hospital, her first reaction was to hug everyone she met; she thought she would never again see another human being. 
Fusayo had a daughter with whom she was very close. Through the years, Fusayo had purchased savings bonds for her daughter. She kept them in a zippered satchel in her home. Everything Fusayo owned was lost in the waves, including her satchel with the savings bonds. Fusayo went to live with her daughter, as far away from the ocean as possible.
The cleanup process in Hilo took months. Six months later a bulldozer operator, who stepped down to make adjustments to his equipment, spied a zippered satchel on the ground. Opening it up, he found the dirt-encrusted savings bonds with the names clearly visible. He turned them in to the police. A call from the police department brought Fusayo down to collect her bonds, which she described as her second miracle of this event.
Destruction in Waiākea after the 1960 tsunami.
Fusayo multiplied the miracle in her life many times over with the volunteer work she did for the community. She volunteered for the Red Cross, March of Dimes, Easter Seals, Cancer Society, Heart Association, and Christmas Seals. At age 96 she still volunteered once a week at the Pacific Tsunami Museum. Visitors would marvel at her stories and positive attitude. She taught us about life and how to truly savor it by helping others and doing good deeds. She always smiled, spoke kind words, and shared what she had with others.
 
Quick LinksMembership
Mission
Donate
Web Cam
Careers
Contacts Pacific Tsunami Museum
130 Kamehameha Ave
Hilo, Hawai’i 96720
tel: 808-935-0926
PO Box 806
Hilo, Hawai’i 96721
Open Hours Everyday
10am – 4pm
 

Pacific Tsunami Museum © 2022 / All Rights Reserved
 
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok