Wikipedia Founder Says Internet Users Are Adrift In The 'Fake News' Era : NPR
Accessibility links 
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
                    Open Navigation Menu
                
Newsletters
NPR Shop
>
                    Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design 
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
        Hip-Hop 50
    
        Tiny Desk
    
        All Songs Considered
    
        Music Features
    
        Live Sessions
    
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
                                    Morning Edition
                                
                                    Weekend Edition Saturday
                                
                                    Weekend Edition Sunday
                                
                                    All Things Considered
                                
                                    Fresh Air
                                
                                    Up First
                                
Featured
        Rough Translation
    
        Louder Than A Riot
    
        It's Been a Minute
    
        Life Kit
    
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
        Hip-Hop 50
    
        Tiny Desk
    
        All Songs Considered
    
        Music Features
    
        Live Sessions
    
About NPR
Diversity
Organization
NPR Network
Support
Careers
Connect
Press
Ethics
Wikipedia Founder Says Internet Users Are Adrift In The 'Fake News' Era Jimmy Wales has spent a lot of time thinking about how to address the spread of false information. He says Internet users should take a more skeptical attitude towards things they're sharing.
 
Technology
Wikipedia Founder Says Internet Users Are Adrift In The 'Fake News' Era
April 27, 20186:09 PM ET
 
                        Heard on             All Things Considered
      Ari Shapiro
    
Wikipedia Founder Says Internet Users Are Adrift In The 'Fake News' Era
                            
                            Listen
                        
· 
4:09
4:09
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/606393983/606580237" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Enlarge this image
                "When you're not that interested in the news and you do decide, 'Hey I think I want to find out some information,' you still deserve to get quality information," says Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia.
                
                    
                    Simon Dawson/Bloomberg via Getty Images
                    
                
hide caption
toggle caption
        
        Simon Dawson/Bloomberg via Getty Images
        
    
"When you're not that interested in the news and you do decide, 'Hey I think I want to find out some information,' you still deserve to get quality information," says Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia.
            
            Simon Dawson/Bloomberg via Getty Images
            
        
At any given moment, volunteers and paid workers are writing fictional narratives that they present online as news stories, and some of those will get picked up and shared — perhaps thousands of times — on social media. Hoaxes are presented as fact, conspiracy theories are offered as truth, and some of them may even end up on Wikipedia, one of the most-visited sites online. Jimmy Wales, co-founder of the crowdsourced encyclopedia, has been thinking about how to tackle the problem of "fake news." On Thursday, he delivered a keynote address on "the future role for evidence-based journalism" at the Westminster Media Forum, an international conference organized by the British Parliament. 
In the face of false information, Wales still believes that the more open and connected people are online, the better things will be for everyone. "In this era, where we've seen the rise of these fake news websites and so forth, Wikipedia has had almost no problems with this at all," Wales says. "Simply because our community is quite — you know, it's their hobby to debate about the quality of sources, and it's very difficult to fool the Wikipedia community with this."  Interview Highlights 
 
All Tech Considered 
Wikipedia At 15: The Struggle To Attract Non-Techy Geeks 
 
13.7: Cosmos And Culture 
Is Do-It-Yourself Fact Checking The Future?
On Internet users who unknowingly share false stories  Yeah, well, that's just human life. All of us have a few idiot friends, and now they can share stuff on Facebook. The thing is, it's easy to be a little bit condescending about these people and to joke about idiots sharing nonsense. But the truth is, in free societies, people have a right to not be interested in the news. But when you're not that interested in the news and you do decide, "hey I think I want to find out some information," you still deserve to get quality information. And that's what we've really been lacking. On distrust of the media A lot of people say they've lost trust in the media --they think everything is propaganda. And then it becomes very hard to come to any kind of a consensus in society, where we say, "well look, you and I disagree on a certain policy, but here's some facts underlying it," and we could at least agree on those facts. Whereas now, I feel like a lot of people are just adrift — they don't know what to believe. 
On preventing the spread of false information Maybe one step that a lot of people could do is, immediately take a more skeptical attitude towards things that you're sharing online. Just take a second and look in a search engine, check some of the keywords and terms, and just make sure you're not adding to the problem.... 
A lot of the things that do go viral, they go viral because you hear it and you chuckle, and you're like, "That's great." And it confirms something you believe is probably true anyway, so you just blast it off, and you've just been fooled. 
Jimmy Wales
It's not required that everybody do it. As long as some people in our social circles are vigilant about this sort of thing, they can raise the alarm. I'll give an example: I nearly posted something. So here was a story that said "scientists have confirmed that if your cat was big enough, it would eat you." And that's a funny story, right? And we all kind of, we kind of believe it about cats, right? And I was about to share it to my daughter, and I just thought, "I'm gonna Google this quickly." And I did, and what I found was, it linked to an original study. I opened that PDF, and I looked through it, and you know what? The study absolutely said nothing of the sort. So I didn't share it, and that was a good thing. And I felt like, "phew, I nearly got duped by a great story." I mean, that's the thing: A lot of the things that do go viral, they go viral because you hear it, and you chuckle, and you're like "that's great." And it confirms something you believe is probably true anyway, so you just blast it off, and you've just been fooled. Art Silverman and Courtney Dorning produced and edited the audio story. Sydnee Monday adapted it for the Web. 
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
 
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor