Commons:Daily-image-l - Wikimedia Commons
Commons:Daily-image-l
From Wikimedia Commons, the free media repository
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Translate this pageOther languages:Deutsch
English
Nederlands
dansk
polski
русский
ગુજરાતી
Sunday3September2023
daily-image-l is the name of an announce-only mailing list that provides a daily update on the Commons:Picture of the day. It started on the 17th of February 2007, and in less than four months gained over 500 subscribers.
List feedback can be posted on this talk page.
List info and subscribe/unsubscribe: https://lists.wikimedia.org/postorius/lists/daily-image-l.lists.wikimedia.org/
Contents
1 Questions and answers
1.1 I receive emails without any link.
1.2 How are Pictures of the day chosen?
1.3 How does an image become a Featured picture?
1.4 I want to provide descriptions/captions in my language.
1.5 I want to translate the mailman (mailing list) interface into my language.
1.6 Who can contribute material to this website?
1.7 Am I allowed to re-use these images?
1.8 Another question not covered here?
1.9 Where is the source code of the script stored?
Questions and answers[edit]
I receive emails without any link.[edit]
How very mysterious! This seems to be mainly a problem with Gmail, but it has happened with other mail clients. Please email the list administrator with details about your email client and any other software that might interfere with your email such as spam-blocking software.
At any rate, you can view today's POTD here: Commons:Picture of the day/Today (but you'll have to click through to get the image page).
How are Pictures of the day chosen?[edit]
Since January 1 2007, Pictures of the day are chosen from images that have been recognised as Featured pictures . Anyone can make one of these images a Picture of the day. If you have an Featured picture that you want to make a Picture of the day, go to Commons:Picture of the day and find the next day that does not yet have a Picture of the day set. (This might be a month or so in the future.) Only images that have not yet been a Picture of the day are eligible. Follow the red links and insert the image's name. 
How does an image become a Featured picture?[edit]
Featured pictures are recognised as "the best of the best" and go through a two-week nomination process. Anyone can nominate an image to be a Featured picture at Commons:Featured picture candidates. However, only registered users can vote on these nominations. (To register, go to Special:Userlogin.) A nomination will result in a Featured picture if the ratio of support:oppose votes is 2:1, and there are at least five support votes.
Expected standards are high. New nominators are recommended to read through Guidelines for nominators and spend some time looking over the current nominations and comments, to get a feel for what will be accepted.
I want to provide descriptions/captions in my language.[edit]
Fantastic! Here's how:
Register.
Find the language code of your language on Special:Sitematrix (e.g. English is "en").
Go to Picture of the day page. You'll get each Picture of the day for that month, with your language's caption aside the image. If it doesn't exist yet, it will be a red link. Just follow that link and write a short sentence describing the image.
If you have trouble, you can leave a comment on this talk page or the Help desk, and someone will try to help you.
If you're interested in translating other material for Commons, please see Commons:Help page maintenance.
All translations that exist the day before, will be sent out in the daily email.
I want to translate the mailman (mailing list) interface into my language.[edit]
That's great; to get involved with that project, check out http://wiki.list.org/display/DEV/i18nhowto.
Who can contribute material to this website?[edit]
Anyone! We especially welcome people who contribute their own work, be it photographs, maps, diagrams or any other media. Material here should be useful for a Wikimedia project (typically, Wikipedia). To find out if your work is appropriate here, please read our Commons:Project scope policy.
We recommend new users read through the Commons:First steps guide.
Am I allowed to re-use these images?[edit]
Absolutely! All material here is available under the terms of a free license, or in the public domain (ineligible for copyright). In practical terms, this means that you can use any image for any purpose, including commercial uses and the creation of derivative works. Some conditions may apply, such as attribution (you must say who the author is), sharealike (any derivative works must be released under the same free license) and copytext (any use of the image must  be accompanied by a full copy of the license text). Please read the terms of any particular free license to find out what is requires. These licenses are usually written in "human-readable" format and are not full of legalese like some documents.
Another question not covered here?[edit]
Post it on this talk page.
Where is the source code of the script stored?[edit]
See https://github.com/Toollabs/daily-image-l
Retrieved from "https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Commons:Daily-image-l&oldid=584887744"
Category: Commons image resources
Navigation menu
Personal tools
EnglishNot logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in
Namespaces
Project pageDiscussion
English
Views
ViewEditHistory
More
Search
Navigate
Main pageWelcomeCommunity portalVillage pumpHelp center
Participate
Upload fileRecent changesLatest filesRandom fileContact us
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
Print/export
Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version
In Wikipedia
Add links
 This page was last edited on 23 August 2021, at 18:26.
Files are available under licenses specified on their description page. All structured data from the file namespace is available under the Creative Commons CC0 License; all unstructured text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikimedia Commons
Disclaimers
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement