Language Log: Malaysia cracks down on "salad language"
Language Log
« Eggcorns in the Grauniad |
Main
| What Neil Armstrong said  »
October 05, 2006
Malaysia cracks down on "salad language"
The Associated
Press reports that Malaysia's Minister of Culture, Arts and Heritage, Rais
Yatim, has announced a crackdown on the misuse of the national language
of Malay. Anyone displaying Malay signage that is deemed incorrect
by government authorities can be fined up to 1,000 ringgit ($271) after
a first warning. The
Star, The
New Straits Times, and the national news agency Bernama
provide more detail on the draconian measures, which will be enforced
by Dewan
Bahasa dan Pustaka (DBP), the agency charged with formulating
Malaysia's language policies.
The particular offense that will be penalized is the commingling of
Malay and English, which the AP notes is sometimes referred to as "Manglish" (a blend of
Malay and English
which implicitly suggests that any such mixture is a mangled version of one language or the other). Locally, such Malay-English mingling is usually referred to
as bahasa rojak,
or "salad language" (rojak being a spicy mix of
fruits and vegetables popular in Malaysia). The "salad" idiom is
actually used throughout Southeast Asia to disparage code-switching and
other linguistic mixtures. A popular term for bilingual
Javanese-Indonesian usage, for instance, is bahasa gado-gado, with gado-gado denoting another type
of vegetable salad. (See the chapter on
"language salad" in Joseph Errington's study of Javanese-Indonesian
linguistic interaction, Shifting
Languages.)
In the case of Malaysia, the attempt to ban salad language is part
of a
concerted attempt to bolster Malay nationalist integrity through
"purification" of the national language. English, as in so many other
parts of the world, is seen as the gravest threat to local linguistic
purity, and in former British colonies like Malaysia that perceived
threat is interlaced with fears of English as a neo-colonizing force
deleterious to an independent nation. In Malaysia and elsewhere,
however, there is a great tension between wariness of English
linguistic imperialism and the recognition that English proficiency is
a key for success in the globalized economy, particularly in
technological fields. (The same tension has cropped up recently in the
Indian state of Karnataka, including the high-tech hub of Bangalore,
where a controversial ban
on English-language classes has been enforced to support
instruction in the local language of Kannada.)
Bloggers in Malaysia have, not surprisingly, reacted with a great
deal
of skepticism to the new measure. Here are snippets from two
representative blog posts:
It seems as if our government does not really
know what it wants to do
and is staggering like a blind man without a cane in an unfamiliar
place. On one side it laments the poor command of English especially
among graduates, most of them Malays and on the other it continues to
play the field with concocted threats to the national language and
imagined attempts to downgrade it; a ploy that works well with the
paranoid, the insecure and the Malay language fanatic. (The
Malaysian)
[S]ign and billboard makers the nation over will probably rejoice at
this news. What better way to rejuvenate the sign industry than to
legislate language? Not so very long ago, Indian sign-makers had a big
windfall when Bombay, Calcutta and Madras changed their names to
Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai respectively. 
Let's look at an obvious example - all the 7-Eleven stores nationwide
(around 700 outlets, and growing) would have to change their signage to
7-Sebelas. Think of how lucrative that signage contract is going to be.
(myAsylum)
Others
have questioned the proposed policy that commonly appearing English words and phrases should be
replaced by new Malay nativizations, such as replacing Touch 'N' Go with Sentuh Dan Pergi, or Boulevard with Lebuh Perdana. Still others
have mocked the idea that government authorities might change the name of MyKad,
the Malaysian Government Multipurpose Card (a smart identity card that
includes biometric information). MyKad
is an interesting bit of bilingual play, combining kad (the Malay nativization of
English card, representing a
pronunciation spelling of non-rhotic British English) with my, which functions both as a
first-person possessive pronoun and as a techie designation for
Malaysia (it's the ISO country code and the top-level domain name for
Malaysian websites). Despite its loanword status, kad is presumably considered a
legitimate Malay word by the DBP, because it has been nativized since
colonial times. But the my
element is now suspect because of its Englishness, despite its subtle
resonance with Malaysia's high-tech, Internet-savvy image. Such clever language play
apparently has no place in Malaysia's new salad-free linguistic future.
Posted by Benjamin Zimmer at October  5, 2006 02:48 PM