(PDF) Myzgin K. Finds of Roman provincial coins on the territory of Eastern Europe: Balkan cities mintage // (V. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda eds.)  Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium “Circulation of the antique coins in Southeastern Europe”. Belgrade 2018, p. 87-103 | Kyrylo Myzgin - Academia.edu
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
Log InSign UpLog InSign UpmoreJob BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyrightWe're Hiring!Help Centerless
Download Free PDFDownload Free PDFMyzgin K. Finds of Roman provincial coins on the territory of Eastern Europe: Balkan cities mintage // (V. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda eds.)  Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium “Circulation of the antique coins in Southeastern Europe”. Belgrade 2018, p. 87-103Myzgin K. Finds of Roman provincial coins on the territory of Eastern Europe: Balkan cities mintage // (V. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda eds.)  Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium “Circulation of the antique coins in Southeastern Europe”. Belgrade 2018, p. 87-103Myzgin K. Finds of Roman provincial coins on the territory of Eastern Europe: Balkan cities mintage // (V. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda eds.)  Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium “Circulation of the antique coins in Southeastern Europe”. Belgrade 2018, p. 87-103Myzgin K. Finds of Roman provincial coins on the territory of Eastern Europe: Balkan cities mintage // (V. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda eds.)  Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium “Circulation of the antique coins in Southeastern Europe”. Belgrade 2018, p. 87-103Myzgin K. Finds of Roman provincial coins on the territory of Eastern Europe: Balkan cities mintage // (V. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda eds.)  Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium “Circulation of the antique coins in Southeastern Europe”. Belgrade 2018, p. 87-103Kyrylo MyzginUntil recently, finds of Roman provincial coins on the territory of Ukraine were rare (no more than thirty coins). But in recent years, situation has radically changed, due to the active use of metal detectors. Today, we can talk about several hundreds, or even thousands, finds of Roman provincial coins, most dated into the 3rd century AD and minted in the cities of the Balkan provinces. All of them are found in the area of the Chernyakhiv Culture (mainly between the middle reaches of Dnieper and the middle reaches of Dniester), which is associated with Gothic tribes. Inflow of these coins is associated with the events of the mid 3rd century AD exclusively, namely – with participation of the local barbarian population in the Gothic wars. Although the majority of coins originate from Viminacium and Provincia Dacia, among finds there is also a large number of coins from other cities of the Balkan provinces. The largest number includes coins of Marcianopolis, Filippopolis, Deultum, Anchial and Nicopolis ad Istrum. On one side, statistics of these finds draw a picture of their circulation in the Balkans. However, on the other hand, finds of such coins make it possible to clarify certain events of the Gothic wars, which are known in written sources and from archaeological research. In addition, today we can already say that the finds of Roman provincial coins, together with other categories of Roman coins and finds from the 3rd century AD, represent the early horizon of Chernyakhiv Culture.See Full PDFDownload PDFSee Full PDFDownload PDFRelated PapersV. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda (eds), Circulation of Antique Coins in Southeastern Europe, Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium, Viminacium 15th – 17th September 2017, Belgrade 2018.Vujadin M Ivanišević, Bojana Boric Breskovic, Mirjana VojvodaDownload Free PDFView PDFPROCEEDINGS OF THE INTERNATIONAL NUMISMATIC SYMOPOSIUM: CIRCULATION OF ANTIQUE COINS IN SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE, Viminacium 20172018 • Mirjana VojvodaThis publication collected part of papers from presentations of participants of the International Numismatic Symposium Circulation of the Antique Coins in Southeastern Europe (Viminacium 2017).Download Free PDFView PDFPROCEEDINGS OF THE INTERNATIONAL NUMISMATIC SYMPOSIUM The monetary circulation of Roman provincial coins from the Viminacium mint in the territory of present-day Slovenia2018 • Alenka MiškecThe subjects of our research were Roman provincial coins from the Viminacium mint, found in the area of present-day Slovenia. To date 443 Roman provincial coins have been found and most of them are from the Viminacium mint, as their share reaches up to almost 40%. Coins from the provincial mint in Viminacium have been documented at 33 sites, particularly situated along the two major traffic arteries. The first led from Savaria to Poetovio, Celeia, Emona, and further towards Aquileia. The second led from Siscia to Emona via Neviodunum. As part of the research, we examined the distribution of coins from the Viminacium mint in the area of present-day Slovenia, their relationships to contemporary coins from the imperial mints, and made comparisons with distribution at other sites, especially in the Roman provinces of Dacia and Moesia.Download Free PDFView PDFMyzgin K. New Finds of Roman Provincial Bronze Medallions on the Territory of Ukraine, Notae Numismaticae/Zapiski Numizmatyczne, IX, 2015, pp. 103-114Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFB. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda, The Circulation of Roman Provincial Coins of the Viminacium Colony, In: VIVERE MILITARE EST From Populus to Emperors -Living on the Frontier Volume II BELGRADE 2018Mirjana VojvodaDownload Free PDFView PDFVITAL' SIDOROVICH The Finds of Greek and Roman Provincial Coins in BelarusWital SidarowiczThe aim of the article is to discuss and publish the finds of ancient Greek and Roman provincial coins discovered in the territory of present-day Belarus. The author describes in detail two finds of ancient Greek coins – a bronze coin from Panticapaeum struck in 3rd BCE (Cat. 1) and a silver Ptolemy II coin, which is an obvious antiquarian counterfeit from the 19th or the first half of the 20th century, imitating the coin struck in gold. Roman provincial coins are noted for 23 finds contain 39 coins. There have been recorded the Bosporan coins (3 finds, Cat. 2–4), coins struck in Balkan and Danubian provinces (11 finds representing 11 pieces, Cat. 5–16), coins from Asia Minor and Egypt (4 finds contain 24 pieces, Cat. 17–20), and coins from unidentified mints (3 finds contain 4 coins, Cat. 21–24). Among the provincial coins the bronze and billon coins are the most frequently group, except the elektron stater of Sauromates II (173/174–210/ 211) found in Minsk (Cat. 2), and the Lycian drachm of Trajan (98–117) from the Lyshchytsy hoard (Cat. 17). The article presents the analysis of the coin finds with reference to the geographical regions of Belarus and archeological context in the early centuries of the first millennium AD. A major part of coins found in Belarus have been minted in 3rd century, and their inflow should be very probably linked with the population, who inhabited in the territory of present-day Belarus with the people of the Chernyakhiv Culture and with the so-called Scythian (Gothic) Wars. Possibly, the coins also reached the Barbarian area with the legionaries stationed in the Danubian and Balkan provinces, some of those coins (Roman coins from Alexandria) may have been brought over by Germanic warriors serving in the Roman army in the second half of the 3rd century.Download Free PDFView PDFЛяўко, Сідаровіч Рымскія манеты з гарадзішча і селішча каля в. Кардон у Беларускім Падзвінні2017 • Wital SidarowiczАннотация. Рассмотрены античные монеты, найденные во время исследования археологического комплекса Кордон Шумилинского района Витебской области. На широкой фактологической основе с территории Белорусского Подвинья прослежено весьма редкое явление – первые две находки античных монет в восточной его части (Витебский регион), полученные путем раскопок сотрудниками Института истории НАН Беларуси в 2016 г. Это денарий Марка Аврелия (164 г. н.э.) – с городища и дидрахма Веспасиана и Тита (69–79 гг. н.э.) – из селища 1. Авторы высказали предположение о возможных путях и обстоятельствах попадания этих артефактов на археологический памятник Кордон. Более вероятным они считают появление римских монет на правобережье Витебского Подвинья через носителей киевской культуры из днепровско-двинского междуречья. Это предположение обосновывается и находками артефактов, связанных с данной культурой как в Кордоне, так и в рассматриваемом регионе в целом. Датировка нижних пластов городища и селища 1 в Кордоне по наличию керамики с т.н. “расчёсами” свидетельствует в пользу попадания монет на памятник в период самого раннего времени его существования. Ключевые слова: римские монеты, археологический памятник, Белорусское Подвинье, городище, селище, торговые пути, Римская империя, железный век, Барбарикум, киевская культура Для цитировання: Ляўко, В. М. Рымскія манеты з гарадзішча і селішча каля в. Кардон у Беларускім Падзвінні / В. М. Ляўко, В. М. Сідаровіч // Вес. Нац. акад. навук Беларусі. Сер. гуманіт. навук. – 2017. – № 4. – С. 43–49. Abstract. The article presents antique coins which were discovered during the excavations of the archeological complex of Kardon in Shumilina district, Vitebsk region. According to the wide factual basis, a very rare phenomenon had been traced in the territory of the Belarusian Dzvina region: ancient coins were found in its eastern part (Vitebsk region) through official excavations by the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus in 2016. These are a denarius of Marcus Aurelius (AD 164) from the hill fort and a didrachm of Vespasian and Titus (AD 69 to 79) from settlement 1. The authors expressed their ideas on possible ways and circumstances for these artifacts to have appeared on the archaeological site of Kardon. They believe that the Roman coins most probably got on the right side of the Vitebsk Dzvina region through representatives of the Kiev culture from the area between the Dnieper and Dzvina rivers. This opinion is substantiated by artifacts related to this culture that were found both in Kardon and in the considered region. The dating of the lower cultural layers of the hill fort and settlement 1 in Kardon is made on the basis of the availability of comb-marked pottery, and it is possible that the coins got on the site in the earliest period of its existence. Keywords: Roman coins, archaeological site, Belarusian Dzvina region, hill fort, settlement, trade routes For citation: Liauko V. M., Sidarovich V. M. Roman Coins from the Hill Fort and Settlement near Kardon in the Belarusian Dzvina Region. Vestsi Natsyianal’nai akademii navuk Belarusi. Seryia humanitarnykh navuk = Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus. Humanitarian series, 2017, no 4, pp. 43–49 (in Belarusian)Download Free PDFView PDFМизгін К.В. Знахідки римських монет на Волині: основні категорії та особливості розповсюдження (до проблеми регіонального вивчення) // Археологія і давня історія України, вип. 1 (30), Київ, 2019, с. 30-42.Kyrylo MyzginThe article is an experience of regional study of Roman coins finds on the territory of Eastern Europe. The basic information about them was collected and published in the middle of the 20th century. However, today this source base has significantly expanded. Basically, due to the use of metal detectors during archaeological research and, unfortunately, for illegal purposes (such finds are called «less reliable», their use is obligatory, however, provided a critical approach to information). Analysis of the main categories of Roman сoin finds in the region made it possible to distinguish features in their distribution. Basically, Volhynia are is outside the concentration of the main categories of finds of Roman coins in Eastern Barbaricum: Roman republican coins, 1—2nd c. AD denarii, 1—3rd c. AD aurei, 2—3rd AD bronze provincial coins, antoniniani and bronze and silver emissions of 4th c. AD. Nevertheless, the concentration of the 4th c. AD Roman gold medallions is associated with this region (in article published a new find of such coin), which indicates here the existence of the centre of the barbarous elite. In general, the numismatic material of the Volhynia region is typical for the territory of the right bank of Dnieper. At the same time, do not forget that Volhynia, like all territory of Eastern Barbaricum, in Roman period was part of the German cultural circle, in which Roman coins were universal.Download Free PDFView PDFBursche A., Myzgin K. Gold coins, Alexandria Troas and Goths, (in:)  R. Bland, D. Calomino (eds.) Studies in Ancient Coinage in Honour of Andrew Burnett, London: Spink, 2015, pp. 237-257.Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFAhmedov I.R., Gavrilov A.P., Choref M.M.  2018. Treasure of Roman Coins of the First  — Second Centuries from the Middle Oka River Basin. Materials in Archaeology and History of Ancient and Medieval Crimea 10, 436-4572018 • Mikhail Choref, Ilya R AkhmedovОбъектом изучения стали римские монеты из клада, обнаруженного близ пгт. Шилово Рязанской области и поступившие в местный краеведческий музей. Все они — денарии I—II вв. Полагаем, что эти монеты поступили в регион благодаря торговым связям с «черняховским» населением. Допускаем, что оно являлось важнейшим контрагентом на направлении культурных и политических взаимодействий, ведущим через Подонье и Поднепровье в Причерноморье и Подунавье, к римским провинциям. Причем изученные нами монеты на момент их сокрытия не являлись платежными средствами. Ведь в клад выпали субэратные, обломанные и пробитые монеты. Полагаем, что они служили сырьем для производства украшений, в том числе и статусных, а также артефактами этой группы. The Roman coins from the treasure discovered near the Shilovo village of Ryazan Region and preserved in the local museum were studied. All of them are denarii of the first and second centuries. We believe that these coins came to the region due to trade relations with the Chernyakhov population. We assume that it was the most important counterpart in the domain of cultural and political life, localized from the Don and the Dnieper to the Black Sea and the Danube Region and, then, to Roman provinces. Remarkably, these coins at the moment of their concealment were not means of payment, as one can see, because the treasure contains suberate, broken, and punched coins. We believe that they served as raw material for jewelry, including those destined for the upper classes.Download Free PDFView PDFSee Full PDFDownload PDFLoading PreviewSorry, preview is currently unavailable. You can download the paper by clicking the button above.RELATED PAPERSGold coins, Alexandria Troas and Goths, (in:) R. Bland & D. Calomino (eds.), Studies in Ancient Coinage in Honour of Andrew Burnett, Spink, London 2015, 232-258.Aleksander BurscheDownload Free PDFView PDFMyzgin K., Vida I., Więcek T. Gold imitations of Roman coins from collection of Hungarian National Museum in BudapestKyrylo Myzgin, Istvan VidaDownload Free PDFView PDFГІСТОРЫЯ ВЫВУЧЭННЯ АНТЫЧНЫХ МАНЕТ У БЕЛАРУСІWital SidarowiczDownload Free PDFView PDFНумизматические чтения Отдела нумизматики Государственного исторического музея 2019 года. Москва,Бурше А., Мызгин К. Ауреусы середины III века на территории Барбарикума и их контекст2019 • Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFMyzgin K., Beidin G. Finds oF Bosporan Coins in the Territory of the East-European BarbaricumKyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFProceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium Circulation of the Antique Coins in Southeastern Europe, Viminacium, Serbia, September 15th - 16th 2017Circulation of Coinage from the Bithynian Mint of Nicaea in the Territory of Present day Serbia2018 • Adam Crnobrnja, Mirjana VojvodaDownload Free PDFView PDFOiumПетраускас, О.В. 2016. Скляні посудини типу Еггерс/ 230  в черняхівській культурі: хронологічний аспект. Oium, 5,  Київ: ІА НАНУ, с. 89-106 (Glasgefässe vom Typ Eggers/230 in der Černjachiv-Kultur: chronologische Aspekt.2016 • Oleg  PetrauskasDownload Free PDFView PDFЗаписки отдела нумизматики и торевтики Одесского археологического музея вып.III/ Works of Numismatics & Toreutics Department of Odessa Archaeological Museum. IIIBruyako  IgorDownload Free PDFView PDFВоронцов А.М., Мызгин К.В. Ultima Thule? О находках позднеримских монет на территории Тулы2019 • Alexey Vorontsov, Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFTwo coin deposits from the Roman fort of TrimammiumVarbin VarbanovDownload Free PDFView PDFМызгин К.В. Новые находки ауреусов Гордиана III, Филиппа Араба и Траяна Деция на территории Украины // О. Петраускас, О. Гопкало, С. Горбаненко (ред.) Черняхівська культура: до 85-річчя від дня народження І.С. Винокура (Oium. № 5). Київ, 2016. С. 141-145.Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFRoman military diplomas on the territory of south-eastern Europe /Надвірняк О. В., Погорілець О. Г., Надвірняк О. О. РИМСЬКІ ВІЙСЬКОВІ ДИПЛОМИ НА ТЕРИТОРІЇ ПІВДЕННО-СХІДНОЇ ЄВРОПИ// Черняхівська культура - Київ, 2016 - С.170-185 (Oium - №5)_Nadvirnyak_O._V._Pogorilets_O._G._Nadvir.pdfOleg  PogoreletcDownload Free PDFView PDFМызгин К.В. Ауреусы, антонинианы и провинциальная бронза. Готские войны III в. и черняховская культура в свете монетных находок. B: pед. М. В. Любичев, К. В. Мызгин, Ostrogothica–Serie (Hefte), вып. 3. Харьков, 2018. С. 36-55.Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFХронология и монетные находки позднеримского времени и эпохи Великого переселения народов. Актуальные археологические исследования в Центральной и Восточной Европе (Ред. М. В. Любичев, К. В. Мызгин). Ostrogothica–Serie (Hefte). Вып. 3. Харьков 2018. 264 c.Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFOium, 6Бандрівський М., Білик М., Мизгін К. Скарб римських денаріїв з с. Хідновичі Львівської області: перші результати досліджень2019 • Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFViminacium Coins from Aquileia and Venetia et Histria, in V. Ivanišević, B. Borić-Brešković, M. Vojvoda (eds.), Circulation of Antique Coins in Southeastern Europe, Proceedings of the International Numismatic Symposium (Viminacium, Serbia, 15th-17th September 2017), 115-129.Andrea StellaDownload Free PDFView PDFЗМІСТ, РЕЗЮМЕ: Черняхівська культура / Відп. ред. О.В. Петраускас, О.В. Гопкало, С.А. Горбаненко. — Київ, 2016. — 208 с., 6 с. кол. вкл. (Oium. — № 5) (CONTENTS, SUMMARY: Chernyakhiv culture / Editors O.V. Petrauskas, S.A. Gorbanenko. — Kyiv, 2016. — 208 p. (Oium. — № 5)).Sergiy Gorbanenko, Oleg  Petrauskas, Oksana HopkaloDownload Free PDFView PDFNadvirnіak O. V., Pogorilets O. G., Nadvirnіak O. O. Roman military diplomas on the territory of south-eastern Europe /Надвірняк О. В., Погорілець О. Г., Надвірняк О. О.  РИМСЬКІ ВІЙСЬКОВІ ДИПЛОМИ НА ТЕРИТОРІЇ ПІВДЕННО-СХІДНОЇ ЄВРОПИ// Черняхівська культура - Київ, 2016 - С.170-185 (Oium - №5)Олександр  НадвірнякDownload Free PDFView PDFДрібні камінці в інвентарі трупопокладень черняхівської культури / Small stones in inventory of inhumations of Cherniakhiv cultureVolodymyr TylishchakDownload Free PDFView PDFDymowski A., Myzgin K. Inflow And Redistribution Of Roman Imperial Denarii In The Area Of Przeworsk, Wielbark and Chernyakhiv Cultures And In The Baltic Islands In The Light Of Chronological Of Coin Hoards // Notae Numismaticae. – IX. – Kraków, 2014. – P. 39-69.Kyrylo Myzgin, Arkadiusz DymowskiDownload Free PDFView PDFNotae Numismaticae-Zapiski Numizmatyczne XIIICoins of the Rulers of Cimmerian Bosporus Found in Poland, Notae Numismaticae-Zapiski Numizmatyczne 13, 2018, pp. 53-922018 • Jarosław Artur BodzekDownload Free PDFView PDFНадвірняк О.В., Погорілець О.Г. Про окрему групу трупоспалень на могильниках черняхівської культури (за матеріалами пам’яток України) // Черняхівська культура – Київ, 2016, С. 41-49. (Oium №5).Олександр  НадвірнякDownload Free PDFView PDFЛюбичев М.В. Ранняя история днепро‑донецкой лесостепи I–V веков (Ostrogothica–Serie: Bände, 2), часть 2, Харьков: Естет-Принт, c. 8-15.Мызгин К.В. Античные монеты как источник по культурной и ранней истории днепро‑донецкой лесостепи I–V вв.2019 • Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFПоховання 115 Шишацького могильника зі скляним орнаментованим кубком. Черняхівська культура. Oium, 5, с. 20—28.; Burial 115 Shyshaky cemetery with ornamented glass beaker2016 • Reida  Roman, Анатолій  Гейко, Сергей СапегинDownload Free PDFView PDFМызгин К., Дымовский А. Приток римских денариев I-II веков нашей эры на территорию черняховской культуры в свете хронологической структуры и территориального распределения монетных кладов // (ред. О. Петраускас, С. Горбаненко) Черняхівська культура. OIUM. – № 4. – Київ, 2014. – С. 82-95.Kyrylo Myzgin, Arkadiusz DymowskiDownload Free PDFView PDFMyzgin K. Roman Republican Coins and Their Imitations from the Territory of Ukraine and Belarus / Римские республиканские монеты и их имитации с территории Украины и Беларуси. Warszawa: Wydawnictwa Uniwersytetu Warszawskiego, 2017. 290 р.Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFThe Battle of Abritus, the Imperial Treasury and Aurei in Barbaricum, The Numismatic Chronicle 173, 2013 (2014), 151-71 + 7 tabl.Aleksander BurscheDownload Free PDFView PDFO.D. Kozak  Farmers of Upper Southern Bug River (Paleopathological Investigation of Burial Ground near Lisovi Grynivtsi); Землероби у Верхів’ях Південного Буга (палеопатологічне дослідження могильника біля с. Лісові Гринівці)Alexandra  KozakDownload Free PDFView PDFJOURNAL OF ANCIENT HISTORY AND ARCHAEOLOGY MONOGRAPHIC SERIES 1 GROUP AND INDIVIDUAL IN ROMAN EUROPE TRAGEDIES The evidence of hoards, epigraphic and literary sourcesROMAN COIN HOARDS OF THE THIRD CENTURY AD FOUND ON THE TERRITORY OF MOESIA SUPERIOR AND SERBIAN PART OF DALMATIA AND PANNONIA INFERIOR: THE REASONS FOR THEIR BURIAL2020 • Mirjana Vojvoda, Saša RedžićDownload Free PDFView PDFThe Numismatic Chronicle 173 Offprint The Battle of Abritus, the Imperial Treasury and Aurei in BarbaricumJohnny StulićDownload Free PDFView PDFGold barbarian imitations of Roman coins: the Ulów type, Honoratissimum assensus genus est armis laudare, KRAKÓW 2014, 317–327Aleksander BurscheDownload Free PDFView PDFНадвірняк О., Погорілець О. «Фальшивомонетництво», «неофіційні імітації» чи «неофіційне монетне виробництво»? До питання присутності «литих» денаріїв І-ІІІ століття н.е на «варварських» територіях Південно-Східної Європи… / Український нумізматичний щорічник. Вип. 3., 2019. - с. 28-41.2019 • Олександр  НадвірнякDownload Free PDFView PDFThe Battle of Abrittus, the Imperial Treasury and Aurei in Barbaricum, Numismatic Chronicle 173, 2013, s. 151-170.Aleksander BurscheDownload Free PDFView PDFChernyakhiv—Sîntana-de-Mureş Culture’s graves with doubleplate fibulas: an attempt of sociological analysis of the groupOksana HopkaloDownload Free PDFView PDFDegler A., Myzgin K. New information on finds of Roman coins from Western Ukraine: L’vivska oblast’ // Notae Numismaticae / Zapiski Numizmatyczne XI, 2017, pp. 143-166.Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFМызгин К.В., Филатов Д.А. Находки ауреусов узурпаторов 3 века на территории УкраиныKyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFМизгін К.В. До питання критики нумізматичних джерел (на прикладі вивчення знахідок античних монет на території Східноєвропейського Барбарикуму) // ВХНУ, Вип. 50, 2015, с. 179-188Kyrylo MyzginDownload Free PDFView PDFTom XI MUZEUM NARODOWE W KRAKOWIE SEKCJA NUMIZMATYCZNA KOMISJI ARCHEOLOGICZNEJ PAN ODDZIAŁ W KRAKOWIEOleg  PogoreletcDownload Free PDFView PDFNotae NumismaticaeNew Information on Finds of Roman Coins from Western Ukraine: Lviv District2017 • Adam DeglerDownload Free PDFView PDFNadvirniak O., Pogorilets O., Nadvirniak O. An Assemblage of Antoniniani from the Late Roman Site of Pereginka (Balakiri) 2 // Notae Numismaticae / Zapiski Numizmatyczne. – T.XI – 2016 – P. 199-220.Олександр  НадвірнякDownload Free PDFView PDFRELATED TOPICSRoman coinsRoman Provincial ArchaeologyRoman Provincial CoinageGreek and Roman Coinage, Roman P...BarbaricumBarbarians and Romans in Late An...Late Roman CoinageRoman Crisis of the Third CenturyThe Cherniachov CultureChernyahov CultureSee Full PDFDownload PDFAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023