The Oxford Dictionary of Music in Oxford Music Online
We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more
184 captures
24 Dec 2007 - 26 Mar 2023
Oct
NOV
Dec
12
2016
2017
2018
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20171112170116/http://www.oxfordmusiconline.com:80/public/book/omo_t237
Accessibility Links
Skip to content
Skip to search
 
Oxford Music Online
Home
About
What's New
                            Subscriber Services
                        
Contact Us
Help
Log In
About
                        What's new
                    
                        How to subscribe
                    
Free trials
Guided tour
Grove Music Online
Editorial Board and Advisory Panel
The Oxford Companion to Music
The Oxford Dictionary of
Music
Encyclopedia of Popular Music
The Oxford Dictionary of Music
Second Edition Revised
Edited by Michael Kennedy, Associate Editor: Joyce Bourne
An indispensable guide for all music lovers and performers, both
amateur and professional, The Oxford Dictionary of Music (2006) 
brings together an unrivalled collection of entries — 12,500 in all —  covering musical subjects of all kinds in an authoritative and
accessible way. Included in this impressive work are entries on
composers, performers, conductors, musical terms and forms,
instruments, works, venues, and a host of other topics. This essential work is now available as a part of a subscription to Grove Music Online.
Containing 5,000 entries on composers, most of which include
up-to-date worklists, The Oxford Dictionary of Music also
provides entries on conductors, performers, directors, critics,
producers and designers of international repute, writers and
scholars. Entries also cover individual works, including operas and
ballets, orchestras and companies from around the world, famous
opera houses, concert-halls, and musical festivals. Musical terms
and styles, as well as forms ranging from operatic, vocal, and film
scores, to song cycles, chamber, hymns, barbershop, and oratorios
are covered, as are general themes such as musicology, acoustics,
and absolute pitch, and historical periods such as the Byzantine
era. Entries also include a wide range of musical instruments, from
the familiar — strings, wind, and brass — to the less familiar — aeolian harp, bamboula and sackbut.
Browse all content from this title (Subscription required for access)
About
What's new
                    How to subscribe
                
Free trials
Guided tour
Copyright © Oxford University Press 2007 — 2017.
                        Privacy Policy and Legal Notices
                    
Copyright © Oxford University Press 2007 — 2017.