Lysias Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Lysias708 FollowersRecent papers in LysiasPapersPeopleCidadania romana, oportunidades e contradiçõesA cidadania (ciuitas) romana pode ser considerada elemento essencial para entender tanto a complexidade do mundo antigo, como da sua posteridade. Na origem, a cidadania deriva do cidadão (ciuis), "aquele que se move" para um lugar. Desde... moreA cidadania (ciuitas) romana pode ser considerada elemento essencial para entender tanto a complexidade do mundo antigo, como da sua posteridade. Na origem, a cidadania deriva do cidadão (ciuis), "aquele que se move" para um lugar. Desde o conceito, quem se move e se junta e forma uma cidadania ou estado (ciuitas), cidade. A cidade (ciuitas) surgiu desse movimento (sinecismo) de gente de diversas origens, algo que transparece nas fábulas sobre a cidade, tanto em Rômulo e Remo, como nas origens troianas. Em termos teóricos, a cidadania romana era por cooptação, algo reativado, na posteridade por impérios como o otomano. A cidadania era entendida como uma gradação, numa escala, em constante mudança, de direitos, entre patrícios e plebeus, mas também uma imensa variedade de outras categorias, como latinos, aliados, federados, entre muitas outras. A cooptação permitia que indivíduos e comunidades inteiras fossem admitidas a certos direitos, de maneira a cooptar, a envolver os Aliados (socii ou foederati), ou as forças militares auxiliares (auxiliarii). Em termos sociais, três aspectos chamam a atenção: escravos e alforriados ou libertos, as mulheres, e indivíduos estrangeiros, subalternos. Escravos podiam ser alforriados e, neste caso, com alguns direitos e plena cidadania para seus descendentes. As mulheres, sem direito stricto sensu à cidadania, tiveram crescente acesso à propriedade e a seu próprio destino. Por fim, estrangeiros (peregrini) com direito à cidadania concedidos, como no caso de Paulo de Tarso. Em todos os casos, isso tanto permitiu a interação de inúmeras pessoas, comunidades e grupos sociais, como deu sequência a tantas contradições e conflitos. A cidadania serviu e pode servir para incluir e excluir, para oferecer possibilidades, como as limitar, a um só tempo.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pedro Paulo A. Funari•  8  History, Ancient History, Citizenship, Historia AntigaContro EratosteneSave to LibraryDownloadby Guido Avezzù•  4  Textual Criticism, Greek Oratory, Greek Philology, LysiasReview of L. Viidebaum, Creating the Ancient Rhetorical Tradition, CUP 2021, Classical Review 73, 2023, 75-7Save to LibraryDownloadby Antonio Iacoviello•  5  Plato, Isocrates, Lysias, Dionysius of HalicarnassusAlgumas Reflexões Sobre a Cidadania Clássica e a Participação Das Mulheres Na Política BrasileiraO artigo discute a relação entre o conceito de cidadania clássica e a participação das mulheres na política brasileira. Apresenta-se o conceito clássico de cidadania, uma discussão sobre as noções de público e privado, de polis e oikos. A... moreO artigo discute a relação entre o conceito de cidadania clássica e a participação das mulheres na política brasileira. Apresenta-se o conceito clássico de cidadania, uma discussão sobre as noções de público e privado, de polis e oikos. A pesquisa é exploratória, de abordagem qualitativa, trazendo dados sobre a participação das mulheres na política brasileira que são analisados como evidências das implicações dessa noção clássica, que imputa papéis estereotipados para os gêneros e impõe obstáculos à participação das mulheres na esfera pública, desencadeando a baixa participação feminina na política formal no país.Save to LibraryDownloadby ANA ELIZABETH NEIRAO REYMAO•  2  Political Science, CitizenshipEstudios Interdisciplinarios de Historia. Antigua I y IISave to LibraryDownloadby Marta Alesso•Sport and war in democratic AthensThis article considers the neglected problem of elite sport in classical Athens. Athenian democracy may have opened up politics to every citizen but it had no impact on sporting participation. This ancient state’s sportsmen continued to... moreThis article considers the neglected problem of elite sport in classical Athens. Athenian democracy may have opened up politics to every citizen but it had no impact on sporting participation. This ancient state’s sportsmen continued to be drawn from the elite. Therefore, it comes as a surprise that non-elite citizens judged sport to be a very good thing and created an unrivalled program of local sporting festivals on which they spent a staggering sum of money. They also shielded sportsmen from the public criticism that was otherwise normally directed towards the elite and its conspicuous activities. The work of social scientists suggests that the explanation of this paradox lies in the close relationship that non-elite Athenians perceived between sporting contests and their own waging of war. The disturbing conclusion of this talk is that it was Athenian democracy’s opening up of war to non-elite citizens that legitimized elite sport.Este artigo considera o problema negligenciado d...Save to LibraryDownloadby Camila Diogo de Souza•  9  Democracy, War, Sport, OlympicsEgoism_Utility_and_Friendship_in_Plato_s_Lysis.pdfMany scholars consider that Socrates in the Lysis holds that friendship and love are egoistic and utility-based. In this paper, I will argue against those readings of Plato's Lysis. I will analyze how Socrates treats utility and egoism in... moreMany scholars consider that Socrates in the Lysis holds that friendship and love are egoistic and utility-based. In this paper, I will argue against those readings of Plato's Lysis. I will analyze how Socrates treats utility and egoism in the many different kinds of friendship he discusses in the dialogue, from parental love, like-to-like, and unlike-to-unlike relationships, to the accounts of friendship rooted in the human relation to the good and the ways in which we can belong with some other human beings. The upshot of my paper is twofold. I endeavor to prove that some of these relationships, asPlato’s Socrates discusses them, are not egoistic and that Platorepresents and valorizes a particular type of friendship having to dowith philosophy and a philosophical way of life, which is for the sakeof another.Keywords: Plato’s Socrates , Friendship , Love , Utility , Egoism.Save to LibraryDownloadby Irina  Deretic•  14  Ethics, Plato, Friendship Studies, SocratesΕ Α 13 12 ΗΓΗΣΙΠΠΟΥ 13 13 ΑΔΕΣΠΟΤΟΝSave to LibraryDownloadby Orpheus A E G O B O S C U S Qanastra•HegesippusThe Western Greek Slogan of FreedomIn this paper, I argue that the western Greek adoption and adaptation of a key Greek diplomatic slogan – the ‘freedom of the Greeks’ – is central to understanding how that slogan developed from the fifth century BC to the Roman conquest.... moreIn this paper, I argue that the western Greek adoption and adaptation of a key Greek diplomatic slogan – the ‘freedom of the Greeks’ – is central to understanding how that slogan developed from the fifth century BC to the Roman conquest. The western Greeks developed their own version of this idea, which remained connected to the mainland Greek discourse, but developed unique features that had a particularly significant influence on the Romans and their diplomatic interactions with the Greeks. Scholars such as K. A. Raaflaub and S. Dmitriev have produced excellent studies of the development of the discourse about freedom in mainland Greece, but the western Greek dimension of this discourse has been neglected. This western dimension is part of the same discourse: as in the mainland, so in the west, non-Greeks were portrayed as enemies of ‘freedom’ and the defence of ‘freedom’ against them was used to justify the construction of empires. The crucial difference was that from the start, the western Greek slogan placed stress on the role of the individual military leader as the protector of Greek freedom, which was used by Sicilian tyrants to justify autocratic rule. The importance of the individual military leader for the defence of freedom encouraged non-autocratic regimes in the West to import temporary autocrats to lead them. In the Punic Wars, Roman generals successfully assumed this role as imported defender of freedom. The impact of this western experience can be seen, finally, in the way the general Flamininus deployed the slogan of freedom during the Roman conquest of mainland Greece.Save to LibraryDownloadby Chris de L'isle•  5  Roman Republic, Ancient Greek Politics, Greek Sicily, FreedomOs Portos De Faleros e Pireu: Demarcação Dos Lugares De Memória Dos Agathoi Andreia e Dos Emergentes Na Atenas ClássicaSave to LibraryDownloadby Alair Figueiredo•  3  Humanities, Art, Tempos HistóricosMisunderstanding an Ancient Term of Abuse: A Reconsideration of the Modern Understanding of Arsenokoitēs with Its Resulting Obfuscation of Concerns of Sexual Violence and Bias against Women, with Notes on Paul's Rhetorical Use of Hesiod's Works and DaysThis paper challenges the status quo understanding of the Greek term arsenokoitēs. The study finds that the term does not mean “homosexual,’ but rather is both a term of derision and an epithet for a man involved in the illicit sexual... moreThis paper challenges the status quo understanding of the Greek term arsenokoitēs. The study finds that the term does not mean “homosexual,’ but rather is both a term of derision and an epithet for a man involved in the illicit sexual pursuit of women, with overtones of cowardice.  The paper is divided into four main parts. Part 1 addresses the status quo understanding of arsenokoitēs, finding the etymological approach to be wanting. Part 2 demonstrates arsenokoitēs as part of a list of unspeakable and offensive epithets in 1 Timothy 1:9-10. Part 3 offers an explanation of why such a list of harsh terms of abuse should be so listed in 1 Timothy. Part 4 is subdivided into two sections. The first section addresses a literary context of arsenokoitēs as associated with the character of Paris-Alexander in myth, bringing out associations with the sexual pursuit and abduction of women, as well as connotations of cowardice. As a result of this part of the study, a relationship between 1 Corinthians and the first half of Hesiod’s Works and Days was detected and so noted. The second section of Part 4 addresses the Greek term malakos, finding cowardice to be an important meaning for the term.  [Personal note: This present study is an outgrowth of the work I did on Romans 1:26-17. My work on Romans 1:26-27 was originally presented to a regional meeting of the Society of Biblical Literature in 2018 (“Romans 1:26-27 in Its Rhetorical Tradition”), then included in a Festschrift presented at the 2019 annual meeting of the Society of Biblical Literature. In 2020, my Romans work became known to a human rights group in the UK, which eventually included my study’s findings in a report sent to the Vatican in May 2021.   In July 2021 I thought I should read carefully and reflect on the arsenokoitēs section of the report sent to the Vatican, as this term was not covered in my Romans article. Within one week I realized there were problems with the status quo on the meaning of arsenokoitēs as given in the English translations of the New Testament, biblical commentaries and related studies. Simply reading Lysias 10 and 11 revealed that there were not three terms shared with 1 Timothy 1:9-10, but four terms. That's four out of seven in both texts. No one mentions this, because I do not think any serious effort has been made in the past. Then, within a couple more weeks, I read Diskin Clay's groundbreaking article (from 1982!) on Greek terms of abuse in Greek tragedy. Checking through the NT- directed studies and commentaries, I realized I was alone in observing the pertinent information. This newly researched lengthy article ensued and is now posted for the good of the public.]Save to LibraryDownloadby Brett Provance•  20  Human Rights, LGBT Issues, Women's Empowerment, Ancient Greek RhetoricEvidenciales e ironia en Esquines y DemóstenesEl presente trabajo, centrado en los discursos 'Contra Timarco', 'Sobre la embajada fraudulenta' y 'Contra Ctesifonte' de Esquines y 'Sobre la Corona' y 'Sobre la embajada fraudulenta' de Demóstenes, analiza el... moreEl presente trabajo, centrado en los discursos 'Contra Timarco', 'Sobre  la  embajada  fraudulenta'  y 'Contra  Ctesifonte' de  Esquines  y 'Sobre  la  Corona' y 'Sobre  la  embajada  fraudulenta' de Demóstenes, analiza  el  funcionamiento  de  un  grupo  de  evidenciales  en  enunciados  irónicos  para  examinar  la relación  que  los  evidenciales  pueden  tener  con  la expresión lingüística de la ironía en griego antiguo.Save to LibraryDownloadby Raquel Fornieles•  4  Greek Language, Linguistics, Evidentiality, IronyDavid M. Pritchard 2024 (in press), 'The Funeral Oration after Loraux', in D. M. Pritchard (ed.), The Athenian Funeral Oration: After Nicole Loraux, Cambridge (Cambridge University Press).The French can be surprised that foreigners come to France to study ancient Greece. They understand why Anglophone philosophers do so, as it is matter of genuine national pride that ‘French theory’ conquered the world in the 1980s. But... moreThe French can be surprised that foreigners come to France to study ancient Greece.  They understand why Anglophone philosophers do so, as it is matter of genuine national pride that ‘French theory’ conquered the world in the 1980s.  But relatively few French people realise that among English-speaking researchers of ancient Greece the so-called Paris school was no less influential.  The leading figures of this Paris-based circle of ancient historians were Jean-Pierre Vernant and Pierre Vidal-Naquet.  Reading their books as well as those of younger circle-members profoundly shaped our historiography. It turned me and other budding foreign researchers of ancient Greece into the cultural historians that we are today.  The book of the Paris school that exerted the greatest influence on my generation was The Invention of Athens by Nicole Loraux. It was the first book-length study of the speech that democratic Athens staged for the war dead. Before this book’s publication in 1981, ancient historians had accorded little importance to the funeral oration. For them, the genre consisted only of dubious clichés. It also endorsed a pronounced cultural militarism: funeral orators claimed that war brought only benefits and sought to deny the human costs. This was at odds with the strong anti-militarism on the French left during the 1970s. In writing a book about this genre, Loraux clearly was a trailblazer. The Invention of Athens established for the first time the vital importance of this almost annual speech in the formation of Athenian self-identity. Loraux showed how each staging of it helped the Athenians to maintain the same shared civic identity for over a century. The Invention of Athens was also clearly different from the other books of the Paris school. At the time, Vernant and Vidal-Naquet, for example, were researching basic structures of Greek thought.  What Loraux had discovered was more complex: a detailed narrative about who the Athenians were and a set of discursive practices for its maintenance.   The Invention of Athens truly was a remarkable achievement. Yet, in spite of its transformative impact, it was still far from a complete work. Loraux deliberately played down individual authorship as a topic of study, which helped her to prove that the surviving funeral speeches were part of a long-stable genre. But this meant that The Invention of Athens left unanswered important questions about each of the seven surviving examples. An even larger gap concerned intertextuality. The Invention of Athens rightly saw traces of the funeral oration right across Athenian literature, but it never systematically compared the funeral oration with other types of public speech as well as drama. Therefore, Loraux was unable to demonstrate whether the other literary genres of classical Athens were ever a counterweight to the funeral oration’s cultural militarism. Without such intertextuality, her ability to prove many of her bold hypotheses was limited. The principal aim of this edited volume is to complete methodically The Invention of Athens. To this end, our book dedicates a chapter to each extant funeral speech in order to answer the important questions that Loraux left unanswered. It completes the vital intertextual analysis of the genre that is missing in The Invention of Athens. In filling such gaps, our chapters also aim to reassess numerous bold arguments and claims that Loraux made in her celebrated first book. Another aim of ours is to furnish a rich analysis of war’s overall place in the culture of democratic Athens.Save to LibraryDownloadby David M Pritchard•  6  Ancient History, Classics, Greek Literature, Athenian DemocracyThe Athenian Civil War according to Lysias’ Funeral OrationThis essay aims to analyze the passages of Lysias’s funeral speech (Lys. 2) that deal with the dramatic events of the 405-403 BC, from the Aegospotamoi battle to the democratic restoration. The principal intent is to underline continuity... moreThis essay aims to analyze the passages of Lysias’s funeral speech (Lys. 2) that deal with the dramatic events of the 405-403 BC, from the Aegospotamoi battle to the democratic restoration. The principal intent is to underline continuity with and differences from the other narrations of the same events in the Lysianic corpus; in particular there will be important to compare these passages with the speech Against Eratosthenes (Lys. 12) and the one Against Agoratus (Lys. 13), in which the speaker, who is Lysias himself in the first case and a client of him in the second one, gives an interpretation of the Athenian stasis (indeed a civil war) from a democratic point of view. An important passage is Lys. 2.58, where the Athenian defeat in the Peloponnesian war seems to be attributed to the «fault (κακία) of the commander». Τhe scholars argue about the meaning of the word κακία here; my point is that it is used not just as ‘incompetence’ but as ‘wickedness’, recalling the idea that the crucial battle at Aegospotami was lost for treason.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dino Piovan•  5  Attic Orators, Greek Oratory, Lysias, Athenian political history«In King Cambyses’ Vein»: Reconsidering the Relationship between Thomas Preston’s Cambises and HerodotusThe relationship between Thomas Preston’s early Elizabethan tragedy Cambises (printed 1569) and the Book III of Herodotus’ Histories has often been downplayed, owing to the lack of printed editions or translations of Herodotus in England... moreThe relationship between Thomas Preston’s early Elizabethan tragedy Cambises (printed 1569) and the Book III of Herodotus’ Histories has often been downplayed, owing to the lack of printed editions or translations of Herodotus in England at the time and the much more evident connection between the tragedy and the second book of Richard Taverner’s Garden of Wysedome (1547). However, a closer look at the play’s sources reveals how a connection may exist, and how the version of the story Preston staged may be influenced by the tale of Cambyses as presented by the ancient historian. The insistence on the relationship between the king and his subjects (a central issue in both Preston’s tragedy and its sources) may derive from Herodotus, especially if viewed in contrast with the previous versions of the story in medieval literature, the focus of which was mainly on the ethical exempla they provided. Through a comparison of those texts, and a consideration of the availability of Herodotus’...Save to LibraryDownloadby Francesco Dall'Olio•LiteratureLysias's Speech On the Refusal of a Pension and Athenian Citizens with DisabilitiesThe article examines speech XXIV by Athenian orator Lysias "On the Refusal of a Pension" (V-IV c. BCE) This text provides not only an excellent example of a legal speech written by a renowned Attic orator but also invaluable material for... moreThe article examines speech XXIV by Athenian orator Lysias "On the Refusal of a Pension" (V-IV c. BCE) This text provides not only an excellent example of a legal speech written by a renowned Attic orator but also invaluable material for the study of social policy of Athenian democracy, namely-adaptation and survival of people with disabilities in the ancient Greek polis. The author of the article agrees with those researchers who have no doubts concerning the authorship of the speech and its intention to be delivered during the litigation on dokimasia of "infirm" people in the Council 500. The article considers the information about the disabled people in Athens and the allowance granted to them, and analyses topoi frequently used by litigants in legal speeches. Similarly to other Athenian trials, the outcome of this is not known, nor is the fate of the disabled person and whether he managed to assert his position. The analysis of the strategies of litigants indicates that appealing to pathos, enhancing the image of a good citizen, and discrediting the opponent in combination with irony, humor, and dramatization of the trial, to a certain extent, often made an impact on judges and resulted in a favorable decision The whole repertoire of these tactics was effectively utilized by the orator in speech XXIV, therefore is reasonable to suggest that the success was almost guaranteed. It is also noteworthy that the Athenian law that granted the allowance to adynatoi was unique for the Ancient Greece and, in all probability, was connected with the development of Athenian democracy.В статье исследуется речь XXIV афинского оратора Лисия (V – IV вв. до н.э.) «О том, что не дают пенсии инвалиду». Данное произведение – не только прекрасный пример судебной речи, она также дает необходимый материал для исследования таких сюжетов, как социальная политика афинской демократии, конкретно – адаптация и выживание людей с физическими недостатками в древнегреческом полисе. Автор присоединяется к мнению тех исследователей, который не сомневались в том, что речь принадлежит именно Лисию и предназначалась для процесса в связи с докимасией «немощных» в Совете 500. Рассматриваются сведения Лисия и других античных авторов о положении афинских инвалидов и выплачиваемом им пособии. Афинский закон о пенсиях для инвалидов фокусировался не на факте увечья – одного его недостаточно для того, чтобы стать пенсионером: надо быть «немощным» (ἀδύνατος) и иметь достаток ниже установленного минимума. Оратор в речи XXIV использует характерные уловки и стратегии (типичные τόποι), призванные воздействовать на судей, которые часто использовались выступающими в судебных тяжбах. Как и в отношении многих других афинских судебных процессов, мы не знаем исход данного дела: удалось ли бравому инвалиду отстоять свою пенсию. Анализ стратегии поведения тяжущихся показывает, что с одной стороны, призывы к жалости, восхваление себя как доброго гражданина и очернение противника, немного пафоса – в сочетании с острым словцом, иронией, шуткой – нередко влияли на принятие судьями решения и обеспечивали благоприятный финал. Весь этот арсенал оратор эффективно использует, так что можно высказать предположение об успешном для него исходе процесса. Обращает на себя внимание и то, что афинский закон о пенсиях для инвалидов уникален для Древней Греции; очевидно его появление связано с развитием афинской демократии.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tatyana Kudryavtseva•  3  Disability Studies, Athenian Democracy, LysiasΈνα υπόδειγμα για συγγραφή βιβλιοκρισίας [A model for writing book reviews].Πολλές φορές με έχουν ρωτήσει, φοιτητές ή νεότεροι συνάδελφοι, για συμβουλές σχετικά με τον τρόπο και την τεχνική συγγραφής επιστημονικών κειμένων, μελετημάτων και βιβλιοκρισιών. Καθώς απαντώ πάντοτε, δεν έχω έτοιμες συνταγές να δώσω.... moreΠολλές φορές με έχουν ρωτήσει, φοιτητές ή νεότεροι συνάδελφοι, για συμβουλές σχετικά με τον τρόπο και την τεχνική συγγραφής επιστημονικών κειμένων, μελετημάτων και βιβλιοκρισιών. Καθώς απαντώ πάντοτε, δεν έχω έτοιμες συνταγές να δώσω. Μπορώ όμως να προτείνω παραδείγματα ή πρότυπα, μελετήματα ή βιβλιοκρισίες που τα θεωρώ υποδειγματικά. Μελετώντας τέτοια παραδείγματα, μπορεί κανείς να εμπνευστεί και για τις δικές του συγγραφές. Προκειμένου για το είδος της βιβλιοκρισίας, ειδικότερα, είχα την τιμή κάποιες δικές μου κριτικές να προβληθούν από συναδέλφους σε άλλα τμήματα ως μοντέλα για μελέτη και σύνθεση σχετικών κειμένων. Εγώ ο ίδιος θα ήθελα να προτείνω εδώ ένα άλλο πρότυπο, γραμμένο από έναν εκ των σημαντικότερων φιλολόγων του τόπου μας. Πρόκειται για μια βιβλιοκρισία του καθηγητή Θεόδωρου Στεφανόπουλου, δημοσιευμένη σε κάποιο παλαιό τεύχος του Books’ Journal. Ακολουθεί, ύστερα από την καθαυτό βιβλιοκρισία, η απάντηση του Στεφανόπουλου σε κάποιες αντιρρήσεις που έφερε ο κρινόμενος. Οι κριτικές αυτές αναρτώνται εδώ με την άδεια του συγγραφέα τους, για την οποία τον ευχαριστώ θερμά. Πιστεύω ότι μπορούν να χρησιμεύσουν ως υπόδειγμα για τη σύνθεση ανάλογων κειμένων. Εκτός από τον πλούτο των γνώσεων, τη διεισδυτικότητα των παρατηρήσεων και την οξύτατη κριτική ματιά του συγγραφέα, το κείμενο αυτό μάς θυμίζει και κάτι άλλο: την υποχρέωση που έχουμε, όλοι οι γνώστες της αληθινής φιλολογίας, να στιγματίζουμε τη μετριότητα και την επιστημονική ανεπάρκεια, όταν την βρίσκουμε μπροστά μας. Ο Στεφανόπουλος το κάνει αριστοτεχνικά.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ioannis Konstantakos•  7  Greek Literature, Ancient Greek Rhetoric, Book Reviews, Book ReviewLa storia attraverso lo specchio: sguardi e racconti sul passatoSave to LibraryDownloadby Michael Castellino•  7  Funeral Practices, Thucydides, Attic Orators, LysiasMinotaur i Historia Adversus paganos Orozjusza, Speculum Christianum, 29 (2022), s. 5-Orosius mentioned the mythical monster Minotaur and legendary war between the Athenians and Cretans in his History Against the Pagans. Although he devoted two sentences to this story, it is interesting. The source used by Orosius cannot... moreOrosius mentioned the mythical monster Minotaur and legendary war between the Athenians and Cretans in his History Against the Pagans. Although he devoted two sentences to this story, it is interesting. The source used by Orosius cannot be identified. He rationalized the story of the Minotaur by calling him a wild man. His narrative contains some unprecedented facts compared to other tales of the monster: he omitted the figure of Theseus, and more than other authors emphasized the bloodiness of the mythical war between Athens and Crete.Save to LibraryDownloadby Robert Suski•  4  Roman Historiography, Greek mythology, Later Roman Empire, OrosiusΣαραντίδου, Ε./Αλεξίου, Ε., «Η λειτουργία κατόπτρου και το εννοιοκεντρικό μοντέλο διδασκαλίας των Αρχαίων Ελληνικών: ο Ὑπὲρ Μαντιθέου του Λυσία», Μελέτες για την ελληνική γλώσσα 38 (2018) 191-202The Ancient Greek language is associated with values, institutions, political and social contexts. Hence, analyzing a term does not only include its meaning and its transcription into Modern Greek, but also a set of values and reflections... moreThe Ancient Greek language is associated with values, institutions, political and social contexts. Hence, analyzing a term does not only include its meaning and its transcription into Modern Greek, but also a set of values and reflections that accompany the corresponding concept. These elements can be approached using the rhetorical reasoning and the 'mirror function' of the rhetorical texts of the classical era, according to which the orator develops a direct relationship with the audience, as the given speech imposes significant impact and further reflects the audience's 'common sense'. Since highlighting these elements is a challenge for the modern instructor of Ancient Greek language, we propose applying a conceptual teaching model of Ancient Greek. Focusing on the study of specific terms-concepts of rhetorical reason and using fragments from various Ancient Greek texts, students are able to realize the significance of a single word for the meaning given to a text and comprehend the role of the historical, social and political conditions in shaping its concept. The theoretical research of this work is further applied by forming a teaching scenario for the For Mantitheus speech of Lysias.Save to LibraryDownloadby Evangelos Alexiou•  5  Ancient Greek Rhetoric, Lysias, Ancient Greek Language and Literature, Didactics of the Ancient Greek LiteratureLa función de Posidonio como fuente de EstrabónThe purpose of this paper is to analyze the role of Posidonius as a source for Strabo. Both were Greek-speaking authors who lived under Roman rule, and both professed Stoic doctrine. Strabo made extensive use of Posidonian works to... moreThe purpose of this paper is to analyze the role of Posidonius as a source for Strabo. Both were Greek-speaking authors who lived under Roman rule, and both professed Stoic doctrine. Strabo made extensive use of Posidonian works to complete his own geographical ouvre, however, we will see that the conditioning factors derived from the different political necessities in which each lived would mark fundamental ideological and methodological differences.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rafael Naranjo•  5  Classics, Humanities, Politics, Ideology„Gdyby chłopi mieli swojego Plutarcha Pierre Riviere znalazłby się wśród sławnych mężów”. Michel Foucault — emocje i historiografiaThe author of the article examines the methods for the analysis of written sources used by Michel Foucault in the case study of the matricide, Pierre Riviere, a French peasant living in the nineteenth century. By studying murderer’s... moreThe author of the article examines the methods for the analysis of written sources used by Michel Foucault in the case study of the matricide, Pierre Riviere, a French peasant living in the nineteenth century. By studying murderer’s diary—a very emotional, complicated story—and by examining the files of the Riviere’s case, Foucault attempts to reconstruct the mechanisms of behaviour of participants of the family drama, the social norms, to bring their authentic feelings from the conventions of discourse. Is it at all possible? The author of this article shall discuss the way to decoding the source proposed by Foucault, asking the question about the place of emotions in historical research.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anna Brzezińska•SociologyThéomnestos au tribunal ou l’injure comme arme du citoyenSave to LibraryDownloadby Francis Larran•  6  Philosophy, Lysias, Trial, Sophist‘Conventions’ in/as Performance: Addressing the Audience in Selected Public Speeches of DemosthenesSave to LibraryDownloadby Andreas Serafim•  2  Political Science, BrillOS PORTOS DE FALEROS E PIREU: DEMARCAÇÃO DOS LUGARES DE MEMÓRIA DOS AGATHOI ANDREIA E DOS EMERGENTES NA ATENAS CLÁSSICASave to LibraryDownloadby Alair Figueiredo•Investigation of the low-temperature oxidation effect on the structure and mechanical properties of C/C compositeSave to LibraryDownloadby veniamin pogodin•Materials ScienceLo spartano Antalcida, xenos e philos di Artaserse?, «Erga-Logoi», X, 2022, 123-146The article illustrates the career of the Spartan Antalcidas, who between 392 and 367 BC ca. carried out an intense military activity and led several diplomatic missions at the court of the King of Persia. Special attention is given to... moreThe article illustrates the career of the Spartan Antalcidas, who between392 and 367 BC ca. carried out an intense military activity and led several diplomatic missions at the court of the King of Persia. Special attention is given to the analysis of Antalcidas’ diplomatic masterpiece, the common peace of 387/6, which took its name from him. His friendship with the satrap Ariobarzanes, as well as the favor shown to him by king Artaxerxes II (with whom, however, never existed a real bond of xenia), place him among the most prominent Spartan characters in international relations ofthe first half of the 4th century BC.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elisabetta Bianco•  2  Ancient Greece (History), Ancient SpartaLe relazioni internazionali degli esuli politici durante l'egemonia spartana: l'esempio degli esuli rodiiiThe aim of this paper is to consider the ways in which political exiles acted in their relations with other states during the first phase of Spartan hegemony and up to the stipulation of the Peace of Antalcidas. It analyses as a case... moreThe aim of this paper is to consider the ways in which political exiles acted in their relations with other states during the first phase of Spartan hegemony and up to the stipulation of the Peace of Antalcidas. It analyses as a case study the actions of those Rhodians who became exiles during the revolts that shook the island in the first decade of the 4th century BC. After a brief introduction, the paper focuses on the contexts that led to the proliferation of exiles in the period under consideration dwelling on the spe- cial relationship of mutual support between the Spartan king Agesilaus and the exiles. Then it analyses the case of the Rhodian exiles as an example of the general activism of the political exiles. They presented themselves as groups opposed to the governments in power or to precise policies that these governments supported and resorted to the traditional means of political struggle. By so doing, they broadened the area of politi- cal action outside the polis, politicising their exile with strategies that recall, at least embryonically, forms of modern political transnationalism.Save to LibraryDownloadby Laura Loddo•  3  Ancient History, Ancient Greek History, Ancient StudiesThe rejected versions in Plato’s SymposiumApollodorus&#39; prelude to Pl. Symp. is a complex rejection of earlier accounts of Socrates&#39; participation in a symposium. This can be examined contextually as a literary mannerism, or sub-textually as a rejection of previous... moreApollodorus&#39; prelude to Pl. Symp. is a complex rejection of earlier accounts of Socrates&#39; participation in a symposium. This can be examined contextually as a literary mannerism, or sub-textually as a rejection of previous literary versions of this topos. Neither approach contradicts the other, but scholars have found difficulties in finding any earlier author who could have been rejected. Recently, it has been argued that Xen. Symp. preceded Pl. Symp. acting as a catalyst for Plato&#39;s work. However, if neither was the first on a sympotic theme in a Socratic dialogue, we need not presume that Apollodorus referred to Xenophon, but rather that both responded to an earlier author. Scholars suggest various candidates although none has been proven. However, one source has not attracted attention: two anecdotes recorded in PFlor 113 where Antisthenes depicts both Socrates and himself as critical of symposia in general. The conclusions of my paper are that the contents of these ...Save to LibraryDownloadby מנחם לוז•  2  Philosophy, Plato"Against Simon" and "On a Wound by Premeditation": Lysias' Court Speech Writing Career as the Legal Background of the PhaedrusSave to LibraryDownloadby Marina Marren•  6  Attic Orators, Lysias, Plato's Phaedrus, Plato on EducationEuphiletus the Guilty: the Use of Torture in Lysias 1The use of βάσανος (a specific type of slave torture in a court of law that must be offered/demanded and then accepted, referred to as “evidentiary torture” by Michael Gagarin) in Lysias 1 is unique in its usage compared to other... moreThe use of βάσανος (a specific type of slave torture in a court of law that must be offered/demanded and then accepted, referred to as “evidentiary torture” by Michael Gagarin) in Lysias 1 is unique in its usage compared to other instances of βάσανος within the orators. Βάσανος is the torturing of a slave by a third party in a law trial in order to validate information and typically a speaker will offer their slave for a βάσανος or request one of their opponent’s slaves. In this paper I examine the unusual use of βάσανος in Lysias 1. Rather than having the speaker offer a βάσανος to the jury, Lysias uses the mention of a different form of torture in a narrative setting as a tool to convince the jury that the speaker is telling the truth. This presentation changes the representation of the speaker compared to other uses of βάσανος in Lysias and other orators. David Mirhady points out that in cases presented by other orators a βάσανος could have “...decided the case by forcing an admission that would have been decisive'' which is an interesting parallel to Lysias 1. Lysias simply avoids offering a βάσανος and presents a different form of torture in its place but still attempts to use this as a way to assert that the speaker is innocent. This is a methodological tool for the speaker so that he does not have to offer a βάσανος (which could have been a deciding factor) and risk having it be accepted but still seem as though he is following the typical method for declaring his innocence.Save to LibraryDownloadby Laura McLean•  3  Lysias, Athenian Law, Athenian law (family law, slavery)Algumas Reflexões Sobre a Cidadania Clássica e a Participação Das Mulheres Na Política BrasileiraO artigo discute a relação entre o conceito de cidadania clássica e a participação das mulheres na política brasileira. Apresenta-se o conceito clássico de cidadania, uma discussão sobre as noções de público e privado, de polis e oikos. A... moreO artigo discute a relação entre o conceito de cidadania clássica e a participação das mulheres na política brasileira. Apresenta-se o conceito clássico de cidadania, uma discussão sobre as noções de público e privado, de polis e oikos. A pesquisa é exploratória, de abordagem qualitativa, trazendo dados sobre a participação das mulheres na política brasileira que são analisados como evidências das implicações dessa noção clássica, que imputa papéis estereotipados para os gêneros e impõe obstáculos à participação das mulheres na esfera pública, desencadeando a baixa participação feminina na política formal no país.Save to LibraryDownloadby suzy elizabeth cavalcante koury•(review) S. C. Todd: A Commentary on Lysias (Speeches 12-16)Save to LibraryDownloadby Pavel Nývlt•  7  Classics, Ancient Greek History, Ancient Greece (History), Greek OratoryL' ἠθοποιία bifronte in LisiaSave to LibraryDownloadby Lia Raffaella Cresci•  6  Greek Literature, Ancient Greek Rhetoric, Ancient Greek History, LysiasMegamin, Faith, Hope, and Placebo - a Critical OverviewMegamin je u Republici Hrvatskoj registriran kao prehrambeni pripravak. Prema navodima, Megamin se uglavnom sastoji iz vitaminima i mineralima obogacenoga zeolita (aluminijeva silikata), vrste prirodnog izmjenjivaca iona. Sredstva javnog... moreMegamin je u Republici Hrvatskoj registriran kao prehrambeni pripravak. Prema navodima, Megamin se uglavnom sastoji iz vitaminima i mineralima obogacenoga zeolita (aluminijeva silikata), vrste prirodnog izmjenjivaca iona. Sredstva javnog priopcavanja pripisala su Megaminu snazna antikancerogena svojstva iako Megamin nije bio podvrgnut odgovarajucim objektivnim epistemoloskim testovima o njegovoj ljekovitoj ucinkovitosti, tj., nasumicnom, dvostruko slijepom, palijekom kontroliranom, unakrsnom klinickom ogledu. Megamin je u ovome krtickom znanstvenom osvrtu uzet kao paradigmatski model za raspravu o tome kako vise nervne djelatne osobine, poput nade i vjere, mogu biti u svezi sa tzv. lijekovitim ucinkom nelijekovitih tvari (placebo ucinak ili ucinak palijeka). I stvoriti subjektivni privid simptomatskog boljitka, a da za to nema potvrde u objektivnim znacima osnovne bolesti kada ih se provjeri primjerenim znanstvenim postupcima. Svako eventualno objektivno ucinkovito djelovanje Megami...Save to LibraryDownloadby Berislav Momčilović•  3  Medicine, Healing, XenobioticsFonction et contexte du parallèle dans les Opuscules rhétoriques de Denys d’Halicarnasse : le cas de la σύγκρισις entre Lysias et DémosthèneSave to LibraryDownloadby Gianluca Pasini•  10  Rhetoric, Art, Demosthenes, Attic OratorsO “Trânsito” Espacial e a Construção Da Sexualidade Feminina No Oíkos Ateniense Do Periodo ClássicoNeste artigo apresentaremos algumas considerações a respeito da sexualidade das mulheres no espaço da casa ateniense no período clássico. A partir de fontes forenses áticas, tentaremos destacar possíveis leituras a respeito da dinâmica... moreNeste artigo apresentaremos algumas considerações a respeito da sexualidade das mulheres no espaço da casa ateniense no período clássico. A partir de fontes forenses áticas, tentaremos destacar possíveis leituras a respeito da dinâmica sexual feminina no espaço privado. Nosso objetivo é identifcar as tentativas de ruptura e negociação da ordem estabelecida. Consideramos que as ações furtivas e as micro táticas expressavam desejos e interesses sexuais específcos, indicando que o controle estabelecido a partir da lógica masculina não era hegemônico. Instituídas através de “brechas” em atitudes e comportamentos cotidianos, constituiam uma “gramática própria” que tensionava e desregulava temporariamente o papel designado para uma mulher.Save to LibraryDownloadby Juliana Magalhães dos Santos•  3  Gender Studies, Sexuality, Classical GreeceA Pólis e o Político: O Espectro Cidadão e Não-cidadão na Antiguidade GregaNo presente texto apresentamos um balanço a respeito das noções de cidadão, não-cidadão e bárbaro. Entendendo a relação cidadão e não-cidadão como uma relação conceito-constructo, propõe-se um espectro onde ambos operam como um binômio,... moreNo presente texto apresentamos um balanço a respeito das noções de cidadão, não-cidadão e bárbaro. Entendendo a relação cidadão e não-cidadão como uma relação conceito-constructo, propõe-se um espectro onde ambos operam como um binômio, no qual em um extremo se tem o mais civilizado e no outro o menos civilizado, ou seja, cidadão e bárbaro respectivamente. Obviamente trata-se de uma análise que parte das fontes legadas pelos próprios cidadãos da pólis grega, principalmente a ateniense, de modo que o local da mulher, da criança, do estrangeiro e do escravo é sempre secundário. Para solucionar esta problemática das fontes partimos do entendimento que as características que organizam o constructo “não-cidadão” se relacionam diretamente com as características formadoras do conceito de “cidadão”, e as constantes reformulações dos conceitos que formam o construto não-cidadão, na própria documentação antiga, correspondem a um processo de esgarçamento da capacidade de organização do espaço através do discurso. Sendo assim, o espectro proposto busca contribuir para a discussão de um modelo teórico de pólis no quão estes agentes, agrupados no constructo não-cidadão, passem a ser compreendidos como seres que viveram e experienciaram o mundo antigo de maneira ativa, e não de maneira passiva como alguns autores (antigos e modernos) compreenderam.Save to LibraryDownloadby Luiz Moreira•  5  Mediterranean Studies, Ancient Greece (History), Cultural history of the Ancient world, História AntigaAs Origens Do Direito Ocidental Na Pólis Grega the Origins of the Western Law in the Greek PolisO artigo constitui uma modesta contribuição ao estudo da história do direito, centrado no objetivo de destacar a importância do direito grego no desenvolvimento do direito ocidental. Habitualmente, considera-se a civilização romana como a... moreO artigo constitui uma modesta contribuição ao estudo da história do direito, centrado no objetivo de destacar a importância do direito grego no desenvolvimento do direito ocidental. Habitualmente, considera-se a civilização romana como a matriz do direito moderno. ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Cicero Alves•HistoryUMA ANÁLISE DA (IN)JUSTIÇA DA CONDIÇÃO ESCRAVIDÃO NA POLÍTICA DE ARISTÓTELES A PARTIR DE HANNAH ARENDTEste capítulo se propõe a analisar os fundamentos utilizados por Aristóteles (2006) para justificar a escravidão. Para isso, é tomada como chave de leitura a categorização das atividades humanas fundamentais proposta por Hannah Arendt... moreEste capítulo se propõe a analisar os fundamentos utilizados porAristóteles (2006) para justificar a escravidão. Para isso, é tomada comochave de leitura a categorização das atividades humanas fundamentaisproposta por Hannah Arendt (2008). A escravidão no mundo grego antigoera tida como uma forma de liberar o cidadão dos afazeres domésticos e do trabalho para que pudesse ter ócio e, assim, dedicar-se às atividades entre seus iguais, sobretudo à política. O que se procurou fazer foi relacionar da forma mais didática que se encontrou as categorias arendtianas das atividades humanas fundamentais para a leitura da realidade antiga com a defesa por parte de Aristóteles de que seria justaa condição de escravidão em certas situações. Ou seja, o que se pretendeu foi tornar claro que, para Hannah Arendt (2008), Aristóteles considerava justo que uns vivessem como instrumentos animados de outros (para o labor e para o trabalho) liberando estes últimos para que atuassem na esfera pública, para que vivessem para a ação (mesmo reconhecendo18 não haver diferença por natureza entre senhor e escravo).Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel P Nunes•  5  Hannah Arendt, Filosofía Política, Aristóteles, EscravidãoCatullus’ Mullets and Radishes (c. 15.18-19)Save to LibraryDownloadby Shawn O'Bryhim•  5  Classics, Philosophy and Religious Studies, History and archaeology, Language Culture and CommunicationDefining the Beats in the TV SitcomThe sitcom is distinguished from drama or soap opera by having what is described as a closed or "circular" narrative structure wherein the plot returns to the original stasis, defined by Curtis as the re-situation (1982). In my book... moreThe sitcom is distinguished from drama or soap opera by having what is described as a closed or "circular" narrative structure wherein the plot returns to the original stasis, defined by Curtis as the re-situation (1982). In my book Situation Comedy, Character, and Psychoanalysis: On the Couch with Lucy, Basil, and Kimmie (2018), I analysed character behaviour to argue that the protagonist, in their attempt to dispel or deny the incident that has triggered the story, shapes the narrative in a way that reflects the "entrapment" of the show's characters, a defining characteristic of this form of comedy (Mills 2005; Mintz 1985). While I argued that the sitcom begins with character, I now extend that premise to posit that the comedy emerges from the character's reaction/actions to events that threaten their sense of self articulated at an early stage of script development: the beat sheet. In this chapter, I critically examine a beat sheet from one of my own pilots, At the Bar (2016), to determine how beats inform the shape of the narrative structure in this form of comedy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Deborah Klika•  3  Sitcoms, Script Development, Beat SheetNarrativa forense e persuasività emotiva. Focus sulla prima orazione lisianaSave to LibraryDownloadby Roberta Dainotto•  6  Rhetoric, Greek Oratory, Lysias, Oratoria[2022] Metics, slaves and citizens in classical Athens: rethinking the polis from below.If ancient history is particularly susceptible to a top-down approach, due to the nature of our evidence and its traditional exploitation by modern scholars, another ancient history-'from below'-is actually possible. This volume examines... moreIf ancient history is particularly susceptible to a top-down approach, due to the nature of our evidence and its traditional exploitation by modern scholars, another ancient history-'from below'-is actually possible. This volume examines the possibilities and challenges involved in writing it. Despite undeniable advances in recent decades, 'our slowness to reconstruct plausible visions of almost any aspect of society beyond the topmost strata of wealth, power or status' (as Nicholas Purcell has put it) remains a persistent feature of the field. Therefore, this book concerns a historical field and social groups that are still today neglected by modern scholarship. However, writing ancient history 'from below' means much more than taking into account the anonymous masses, the subaltern classes and the non-elites. Our task is also, in the felicitous expression coined by Walter Benjamin, 'to brush history against the grain,' to rescue the viewpoint of the subordinated, the traditions of the oppressed. In other words, we should understand the bulk of ancient populations in light of their own experience and their own reactions to that experience. But, how do we do such a history? What sources can we use? What methods and approaches can we employ? What concepts are required to this endeavour? The contributions mainly engage with questions of theory and methodology, but they also constitute inspiring case studies in their own right, ranging from classical Greece to the late antique world. This book is aimed not only at readers working on classical Greece, Republican and imperial Rome and late antiquity but at anyone interested in 'bottom-up' history and social and population history in general. Although the book is primarily intended for scholars, it will also appeal to graduate and undergraduate students of history, archaeology and classical studies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabio Morales•  16  Ancient History, History from Below, Athenian Democracy, Ancient Greek ReligionWoman and Stasis: two unpolitical operators of the politicalThis paper investigates the relationship between sexual difference and stasis as it is defined by Nicole Loraux in her studies on conflict and politics in classical Athens. As one of the most influential researcher of the classical city,... moreThis paper investigates the relationship between sexual difference and stasis as it is defined by Nicole Loraux in her studies on conflict and politics in classical Athens. As one of the most influential researcher of the classical city, Loraux has investigated the relationship between division and oblivion in the Greek political space, pinpointing the fundamental relationship between politics and conflict and highlighting the division at the heart of the rhetoric of the “City as one”, Hé Polis, and as an harmonic and rational space of freedom and logos.Save to LibraryDownloadby Federica Castelli•Isajos MowySave to LibraryDownloadby Jarosław Rominkiewicz•Isajos MowySave to LibraryDownloadby Jaroslaw Rominkiewicz•The Tyrant’s Progress: The Meaning of ΤΥΡΑΝΝΟΣ in Plato and AristotleThis article considers a longstanding problem: what does the word τύραννος mean? And if it means ‘bad / tyrannical ruler’, why are good rulers called tyrants? The solution proposed here is that tyranny is not a fixed state of being, or... moreThis article considers a longstanding problem: what does the word τύραννος mean? And if it means ‘bad / tyrannical ruler’, why are good rulers called tyrants? The solution proposed here is that tyranny is not a fixed state of being, or not being, but instead a gradual process of development. To be called a tyrant, a ruler need not embody all the stereotypical traits of tyranny. If tyranny is, by definition, unconstitutional and illegitimate rule, then there may be no clear moment at which one ceases to be a general or king and becomes a tyrant, only a process by which the tyrant gradually strengthens his rule and develops the negative attributes associated with absolute and illegitimate power. A strong trend in not only the political theory of Plato and Aristotle, but also Greek poetry and historiography in general, is to trace the decline of tyrannies from initially good and popular governments to ones that are despotic and unpopular: the tyrant’s progress.Save to LibraryDownloadby Edmund  Stewart•  3  Philosophy, Political Science, PolisCreating the Ancient Rhetorical TraditionThis book explores the history of rhetorical thought and examines the gradual association of different aspects of rhetorical theory with two outstanding fourth-century BCE writers: Lysias and Isocrates. It highlights the parallel... moreThis book explores the history of rhetorical thought and examines the gradual association of different aspects of rhetorical theory with two outstanding fourth-century BCE writers: Lysias and Isocrates. It highlights the parallel development of the rhetorical tradition that became understood, on the one hand, as a domain of style and persuasive speech, associated with the figure of Lysias, and, on the other, as a kind of philosophical enterprise which makes significant demands on moral and political education in antiquity, epitomized in the work of Isocrates. There are two pivotal moments in which the two rhetoricians were pitted against each other as representatives of different modes of cultural discourse: Athens in the fourth century BCE, as memorably portrayed in Plato's Phaedrus, and Rome in the first century BCE when Dionysius of Halicarnassus proposes to create from the united Lysianic and Isocratean rhetoric the foundation for the ancient rhetorical tradition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Laura Viidebaum•  6  Rhetoric, Ancient Greek Rhetoric, Isocrates, LysiasLenguaje y Persuasión en La Oratoría De "Attic": Imperativos y PreguntasEste artículo explora el potencial persuasivo de los imperativos y las preguntas en los discursos de Esquines y Demóstenes. Los imperativos tienen una fuerza directiva volitiva en que invitan a la audiencia a tomar medidas, ya sea... moreEste artículo explora el potencial persuasivo de los imperativos y las preguntas en los discursos de Esquines y Demóstenes. Los imperativos tienen una fuerza directiva volitiva en que invitan a la audiencia a tomar medidas, ya sea bloqueando al adversario del orador para que no haga una declaración o votando en contra de él (D. 19.75, 18.324; Aeschin. 3.156). El uso de una alta concentración de preguntas retóricas en momentos específicos en los discursos (Aeschin. 3.130-2; D. 19.250) se convierte en una herramienta poderosa: tanto al articular un ataque implacable contra el oponente, como al no dar al público un respiro en el cual considere defectos en la posición del hablante.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas Serafim•  2  Art, ArgosNextLast »Related TopicsAdultery In FictionFollowFollowingGreek and Latin LiteratureFollowFollowingAttic OratorsFollowFollowingRoman and Greek DramaFollowFollowingDemosthenesFollowFollowingIsocratesFollowFollowingAeschinesFollowFollowingAttic OratoryFollowFollowingGreek OratoryFollowFollowingAthenian DemocracyFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023