Dutch colonial history in Indonesia Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Dutch colonial history in Indonesia3,756 FollowersRecent papers in Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleFraming a De-Territoralized, Hybrid Alternative to Nationalist Essentialism in the Postcolonial Era: Tjalie Robinson and the Diasporic Eurasian 'Indo' CommunityThe dislocated, deterritorialized discourse produced by repatriates from formerly European colonies has remained overlooked in academic scholarship. One such group is the Eurasian “Indo” community that has its roots in the former Dutch... moreThe dislocated, deterritorialized discourse produced by repatriates from formerly European colonies has remained overlooked in academic scholarship. One such group is the Eurasian “Indo” community that has its roots in the former Dutch East Indies, today’s Indonesia. This article focuses on Tjalie Robinson, the intellectual leader of this community from the 1950s to the mid-1970s. The son of a Dutch father and a British-Javanese mother, Robinson became the leading voice of the diasporic Indo community in the Netherlands and later also in the United States. His engagement resulted in the foundation of the Indo magazine Tong Tong and the annual Pasar Malam Besar, what was to become the world’s biggest Eurasian festival. Robinson played an essential role in the cultural awareness and self-pride of the eventually global Indo community through his elaboration of a hybrid and transnational identity concept. By placing his focus “tussen twee werelden” (in-between two worlds) and identifying “mixties-schap” (mestizaje) as the essential characteristic of Indo identity, Robinson anticipated debates on hybridity, transnationalism, and creolism that only much later would draw attention from scholars in the field of postcolonial studies. This article highlights Robinson’s pioneering role in framing a deterritorialized hybrid alternative to nationalist essentialism in the postcolonial era.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeroen Dewulf•  154  Cultural Studies, Cultural Sociology, Self and Identity, Southeast Asian StudiesRobert-Jan Wille, Mannen van de microscoop. De laboratoriumbiologie op veldtocht in Nederland en Indië, 1840-1910| www.bmgn-lchr.nl | e-issn 2211-2898 | print issn 0165-0505 Robert-Jan Wille, Mannen van de microscoop. De laboratoriumbiologie op veldtocht in Nederland en Indië, 1840-1910 (Nijmegen: Vantilt, 2019, 365 pp., isbn 9789460043796). Hoe... more| www.bmgn-lchr.nl | e-issn 2211-2898 | print issn 0165-0505 Robert-Jan Wille, Mannen van de microscoop. De laboratoriumbiologie op veldtocht in Nederland en Indië, 1840-1910 (Nijmegen: Vantilt, 2019, 365 pp., isbn 9789460043796). Hoe ontstaat een wetenschappelijke discipline? Om antwoord te geven op die vraag kan men enerzijds bestuderen hoe methoden, theorieën, instrumenten of onderzoeksvragen zijn samengevoegd. Anderzijds kan men zich buigen over de politieke, culturele of sociale factoren die de oprichting van onderzoeksinstellingen,-banen en-financiering in de hand hebben gewerkt.Save to LibraryDownloadby Virgile  Royen•  9  Science Policy, History of Natural History, History of Science, Colonialism(with Loh Kah Seng, Dorothy Lim, Dionne Huang, and Suhaimi Afandi), All About History: Unit 1 European Dominance And Expansion In Southeast Asia In The Late 19th CenturySave to LibraryDownloadby Peter Borschberg•  70  History, Military History, Economic History, Social MovementsINTRO TO SPECIAL ISSUE: Laborious Transformations: Plants and Politics at the Bogor Botanical Gardens (OPEN ACCESS)Contributors to this theme issue examine the history of the life sciences at the Botanical Gardens in Bogor (Kebun Raya Bogor) in Indonesia. Each of the essays in this theme issue focusses on a major transformation that the garden, its... moreContributors to this theme issue examine the history of the life sciences at the Botanical Gardens in Bogor (Kebun Raya Bogor) in Indonesia. Each of the essays in this theme issue focusses on a major transformation that the garden, its networks, and staff underwent in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Before summarizing individual contributions, this introductory essay familiarizes readers with more recent scholarship in the field. Taken together, the essays in our theme issue suggest that the practice of the life sciences at the Gardens can be best analyzed as the outcome of historical processes of coordination and competition in which different disciplines, communities, and networks not only in insular Southeast Asia but also other parts of the world played a formative role.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas  Weber•  7  History of Science, History of Life Sciences, Colonial History, History of BotanyBritish Naval Power and the Political Situation of Indonesia, 1795-1942 (ENGLISH VERSION)This is the English-language version of the Powerpoint on 'British Naval Power and the Political Situation of Indonesia, 1795-1942: The Netherlands Indies and the Cities of the Archipelago in the Vortex of Global History ' which I... moreThis is the English-language version of the Powerpoint on 'British Naval Power and the Political Situation of Indonesia, 1795-1942: The Netherlands Indies and the Cities of the Archipelago in the Vortex of Global History ' which I presented at the 2nd Annual Forum of the Journal of Maritime Studies and National Integration at the Universitas Diponegoro (UNDIP) in Semarang on 28 October 2020. The article which accompanies this PowerPoint will be published in JMSNI in December 2020. The paper looks at the role played by the Royal Navy in guaranteeing the security of the Netherlands Indies from 31 January-8 February 1795, when the Dutch Stadhouder (Head of State), Willem V (r. 1751-1806), issued  the so-called 'Kew Letters' from his place of exile in London instructing the heads of all Dutch trading posts east of the Cape of Good Hope to hand their possessions over to the British to prevent them falling into French hands, up to 27 February 1942 when the remaining British naval presence in SE Asia was destroyed. This destruction followed the fall of Singapore (15 February 1942),  when the British, along with the American, Australian and Dutch naval assets, were comprehensively defeated in the Battle of the Java Sea by a Japanese fleet under the command of Admiral Takeo Takagi, tasked with protecting General Imamura's 16th Army conquest of Java.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter B Carey and +1Christopher Reinhart•  19  Military History, International Relations, Indonesian History, Maritime HistoryHow the West Came to Rule: The Geopolitical Origins of CapitalismMainstream historical accounts of the development of capitalism describe a process which is fundamentally European - a system that was born in the mills and factories of England or under the guillotines of the French Revolution. In this... moreMainstream historical accounts of the development of capitalism describe a process which is fundamentally European - a system that was born in the mills and factories of England or under the guillotines of the French Revolution. In this groundbreaking book, a very different story is told. How the West Came to Rule offers a unique interdisciplinary and international historical account of the origins of capitalism. It argues that contrary to the dominant wisdom, capitalism’s origins should not be understood as a development confined to the geographically and culturally sealed borders of Europe, but the outcome of a wider array of global processes in which non-European societies played a decisive role. Through an examination of the uneven histories of Mongolian expansion, New World discoveries, Ottoman-Habsburg rivalry, the development of the Asian colonies and bourgeois revolutions, Alexander Anievas and Kerem Nisancioglu provide an account of how these diverse events and processes came together to produce capitalism. Table of Contents Introduction The Problem of Eurocentrism Confronting the Problematic of Sociohistorical Difference What is Capitalism?  What Is Geopolitics?   Chapter 1The Transition Debate: Theories and Critique Introduction The ‘Commercialization Model’ Revisited: World- Systems Analysis and the Transition to CapitalismThe Making of the Modern World- System: The Wallerstein ThesisThe Problem of EurocentrismThe Problem of Historical Specificity The Spatio-Temporal Limits of Political MarxismThe Brenner Thesis: Explanation and CritiqueThe Geopolitical in the Making of CapitalismThe Political Marxist Conception of Capitalism The Problematic of Sociohistorical Difference: Postcolonial Studies Engaging CapitalThe Eurocentrism of HistoricismThe Violence of AbstractionThe Lacuna of Postcolonial Theory Conclusion Chapter 2Rethinking the Origins of Capitalism: The Theory of Uneven and Combined Development Introduction  The Theory of Uneven and Combined Development: Exposition and CritiquesUnevennessCombination Seeing Through a Prism Darkly? Uneven and Combined Development beyond the Eurocentric Gaze Trotsky beyond Trotsky? Uneven and Combined Development before CapitalismMore Questions than Answers: Method, Abstraction, and Historicity in Marx’s ThoughtModes of Production Versus Uneven and Combined Development? A False Antithesis Conclusion: Towards an ‘Internationalist Historiography’ of Capitalism Chapter 3The Long Thirteenth Century: Structural Crisis, Conjunctural Catastrophe Introduction Pax Mongolica as a Vector of Uneven and Combined DevelopmentThe Nomadic Mode of Production and Uneven and Combined DevelopmentThe World-Historical Significance of the Mongol EmpireTrade, Commerce, and Socio-Economic Development under the Pax Mongolica  Apocalypse Then: The Black Death and the Crisis of FeudalismClass Struggle and the Changing Balance of Class Forces in EuropePeasant Differentiation in the Age of the Black DeathDevelopment of the Productive Forces Conclusion Chapter 4The Ottoman-Habsburg Rivalry over the Long 16th Sixteenth  Century Introduction Unevenness: A Clash of Social ReproductionOttoman–European RelationsThe Tributary and Feudal Modes of Production: Unevenness CombinedOttoman ‘Penalties of Progressiveness’ – European ‘Privileges of Backwardness’ Combination: Pax Ottomana and European Trade The Ottoman ‘Whip of External Necessity’The Breakdown of ChristendomThe Ottoman Blockade and the Emergence of the AtlanticThe Ottoman Buffer and English Primitive Accumulation Conclusion: The Ottoman Empire as a Vector of Uneven and Combined Development  Chapter 5The Atlantic Sources of European Capitalism, Territorial Sovereignty and the Modern Self Introduction Imagining Europe in the Atlantic Mirror: Rethinking the Territorialised Sovereign, Self and OtherTearing Down the Ideological Walls of Christendom: From Sacred to Secular Universalism in the Construction of the European Self and non-European OtherLegitimising Colonialism: The Historical Sociological Foundations of EurocentrismCulture Wars in the AmericasThe Colonial Origins of the Modern Territorialised States Systems 1492 in the History of Uneven and Combined DevelopmentThe Smithian Moment: American Treasures and So-Called Primitive AccumulationSublating the Smithian Moment: From Smith to Marx via ‘the International’Primitive Accumulation Proper: From ‘Simple’ to ‘Expanded’ Reproduction The Uneven and Combined Development of Plantation SlaveryThe Sociological Unevenness of the AtlanticSociological Combination in the Plantation System New World Slavery and the Rise of Industrial CapitalismContributions to the Sphere of CirculationContributions to the Sphere of Production Conclusion: Colonies, Merchants and the Transition to Capitalism Chapter 6The ‘Classical’ Bourgeois Revolutions in the History of Uneven and Combined Development Introduction The Concept of Bourgeois RevolutionReconceptualising Bourgeois Revolutions: A Consequentialist ApproachReconstructing Consequentialism through Uneven and Combined Development The Origins of Capitalism and the Bourgeois Revolution in the Low CountriesThe Rise of Dutch Capitalism: An International PerspectiveThe Making of the Dutch Revolt The English Revolution in the History of Uneven and Combined DevelopmentRediscovering the British RevolutionSocial Forces in the Making of the British Revolution 1789 in the History of Uneven and Combined DevelopmentPeculiarities of the French Revolution? Capitalism and the Absolutist State in FranceThe Origins of the Capitalist Revolution in FranceCapitalist Consequences of the French Revolution Conclusion Chapter 7Combined Encounters: Dutch Colonisation in South-East Asia and the Contradictions of ‘Free Labour’ Introduction The Specificity and Limits of Dutch CapitalismDutch Institutional InnovationsThe Limits of Dutch ‘Domestic’ Capitalism Unevenness and Combination in the Pre-Colonial Indian Ocean LittoralThe Intersocietal System of the Indian OceanSouth Asia beyond the Eurocentric Gaze The Dutch Encounter: A Policy of CombinationThe Specificities and ‘Success’ of Dutch Strategies of Integration and Domination in South-East AsiaThe MoluccasThe Banda IslandsIndian Textiles Conclusion Chapter 8Origins of the Great Divergence over the Longue Durée: Rethinking the ‘Rise of the West’ Introduction Rethinking the ‘Rise of the West’: Advances and Impasses in the Revisionist ChallengePoints of Agreement: European ‘Backwardness’ and the Role of the ColoniesLate and Lucky: Contingences, the Eurasian Homogeneity Thesis, and the Great Divergence Structure and Conjuncture in the ‘Rise of the West’The Geopolitical Competition Model and Its LimitsFeudalism, Merchants, and the European States System in the Transition to CapitalismUnevenness Combined: North-South Interactions in the ‘Rise of the West’ The Conjunctural Moment of ‘Overtaking’: Britain’s Colonisation of IndiaThe Significance of India’s Colonisation to the ‘Rise of the West’The Mughal Empire and the Tributary Mode of ProductionThe Imperial Revenue System and Agricultural Decline in the Mughal EmpireEuropean Trade and Colonial Conquest: Towards 1757 Conclusion Conclusion  NotesIndexSave to LibraryDownloadby Alexander Anievas and +1Kerem Nisancioglu•  26  International Relations, Historical Sociology, International Relations Theory, MarxismImplementation of Gothic Architecture on the Buildings in Tropical ClimateTropikalitas dapat dipahami sebagai suatu resultan dari respon-respon manusia untuk hidup beradaptasi dengan iklim tropis. Respon-respon ini sangat evolutif dan kaya akan kemungkinan - kemungkinan sehingga tropikalitas menjadi begitu... moreTropikalitas dapat dipahami sebagai suatu resultan dari respon-respon manusia untuk hidup beradaptasi dengan iklim tropis. Respon-respon ini sangat evolutif dan kaya akan kemungkinan - kemungkinan sehingga tropikalitas menjadi begitu kompleks dan menarik sebagai suatu titik temu antara tantangan alam dengan tuntutan kualitas hidup manusia. Bruno Stagno dalam artikelnya yang berjudul “Tropicality” mengungkapkan bahwa masyarakat tropis cenderung responsif dan tidak antisipatif terhadap tantangan alam. Mereka cenderung menunggu dan berusaha bertahan dengan beradaptasi dan menjadi kultur yang khas. Isu Tropikalitas juga telah dipahami sebagai suatu konstrain yang tak terhindarkan dalam desain Arsitektur Gothik di daerah Tropis.Langgam Arsitektur di Eropa seperti Arsitektur Gothik tidak bisa begitu saja diterapkan di Indonesia tanpa memperhatikan aspek tropikalitas. Sejalan dengan kultur masyarakat tropis yang adaptatif, maka arsitektur Gothik pun harus dapat beradaptasi sebagai respon terhadap isu tropikalitas. Arsitektur sebagai produk budaya tidak terlepas dari aspek estetika. Demikian juga dengan arsitektur Gothik yang telah sekian lama membentuk wajah kota di beberapa daerah di Indonesia sebagai elemen estetis yang signifikan. Adaptasi langgam Arsitektur Gothik dari Eropa terhadap isu Tropikalitas di Indonesia tentunya menghasilkan bentuk gubahan yang khas dan menjadi elemen yang menarik dalam tinjauan estetika. Salah satu contoh bangunan Arsitektur Gothik era peninggalan jaman kolonial yang signifikan keberadaannya di daerah tropis adalah Gereja Katedral St. Perawan Maria Diangkat Ke Surga, Jakarta karya Pater Antonius Dijkmans di lanjutkan MJ Hulswit dan St. Petrus, Bandung karya W.C.P. Schoemaker. Kedua Bangunan ini telah beradaptasi dengan masalah tropikalitas lewat pemilihan material, kemiringan atap yang tinggi dan bukaan-bukaan berupa jendela dan ventilasi yang menghiasi elemen pelingkup ruang pada bangunan ini.Penelitian ini dengan pembahasan dan studi kasus lapangan ini mau menunjukkan bahwa adaptasi terhadap iklim tropis menghasilkan elemen-elemen desain yang sangat kaya dan berpotensi untuk menjadi elemen unsur – unsur Arsitektur Gothik yang berestetika tinggi, yang terintegras dengan mengimplementasi atau menerapkan pada daerah Tropis.Save to LibraryDownloadby Austen-Sean Stanislaus Lumunon•  9  Church architecture, Gothic architecture, Cathedrals, Gothic cathedralsPostkoloniale beeldenstormen (Daendelslezing, Rijksmuseum 25 april 2018)Evenals Indonesië is Nederland een postkoloniaal land. Wat betekent dat? Dat de koloniale periode voorbij is, zeker, al is dat in Caribisch Nederland niet altijd even duidelijk. Dat veel Nederlanders koloniale ‘wortels’ hebben en dat de... moreEvenals Indonesië is Nederland een postkoloniaal land. Wat betekent dat? Dat de koloniale periode voorbij is, zeker, al is dat in Caribisch Nederland niet altijd even duidelijk. Dat veel Nederlanders koloniale ‘wortels’ hebben en dat de koloniale geschiedenis dus letterlijk is thuisgekomen. Dat er steeds meer gesproken wordt over het kolonialisme en over de erfenissen ervan, dáár maar ook híer. Dat de Nederlandse regering meermalen spijt heeft uitgesproken over specifieke episodes uit dat koloniale verleden. Dat de koloniale helden van weleer steeds vaker worden verguist, dat standbeelden en vernoemingen steeds meer kritiek oproepen. Maar dat alles roept ook weer chauvinistische tegengeluiden op.Dit is de context waarin de Stichting Daendels mij vroeg te reflecteren op zijn naamgever, Herman Willem Daendels, onder meer bekend en berucht als koloniaal houwdegen. Ik heb die uitdaging aanvaard en wat breder opgevat, in enkele kwesties die ik achtereenvolgens behandel. Allereerst bespreek ik de wijze waarop Daendels werd en wordt herinnerd. Vervolgens onderzoek ik de toenmalige waardering en symbolische vormgeving van het kolonialisme in Nederland en de reacties die dit tegenwoordig oproept, inclusief de oproep tot beeldenstormen. Daarna stel ik een paar bredere vragen over de hedendaagse poging het koloniale verleden een passende plaats te geven in het verhaal van de Nederlandse natie, en sta ik stil bij de rol daarbij van overheid, musea en historici. Dat leidt dan tot enkele conclusies, waarbij ik ook nog even terugkom op Daendels.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gert Oostindie•  17  Multiculturalism, Museum Studies, Cultural Heritage, Heritage StudiesA Practical Dutch Grammar. Writer Yolande Spaans, Translator: Dr. Ali Kavani (Download link) / دستور زبان کاربردی هلندی، یولاندا اسپانس، مترجم دکترعلی کاوانیAli Kavani (Farsi translation) got his MA degree in History from the University of Tehran in 2002. In 2003, he finished the Advanced Masters Program of the TANAP programme at Leiden University. In 2008, he got his PhD from the University... moreAli Kavani (Farsi translation) got his MA degree in History from the University of Tehran in 2002. In 2003, he finished the Advanced Masters Program of the TANAP programme at Leiden University. In 2008, he got his PhD from the University of Tehran. The idea of creating this website was his.Download link: https://dutchgrammar.org/farsi-persian-edition/Save to LibraryDownloadby Dr.  Ali Kavani•  16  Iranian Studies, History of Iran, Iranian History, DutchPaul Scholten and the Founding of the Batavia Rechtshogeschool New perspectives on law and realityAs a prominent legal scholar, Paul Scholten's works have been widely analyzed in the Netherlands, but his intellectual legacy in the founding of Batavia Rechtshogeschool in the Netherlands East Indies remains under-researched. I address... moreAs a prominent legal scholar, Paul Scholten's works have been widely analyzed in the Netherlands, but his intellectual legacy in the founding of Batavia Rechtshogeschool in the Netherlands East Indies remains under-researched. I address this remarkable absence in two parts: First, I trace Paul Scholten's engagement with the dominant philosophy of his time, the two schools of Neo-Kantianism (Baden and Marburg), and how this engagement shaped his philosophical outlook for the curriculum and the pedagogy of the school. Second, I dissect how Scholten's outlook emerged in his proposals to drop Latin from compulsory courses and to nurture autonomy among the students. I argue that Paul Scholten decisively liberated legal education in the Indies from the confines of European elitism and from the classical-oriented education in the Netherlands. This liberating nature arguably made the school's graduates relevant in the upcoming upheaval in Indonesian history. Keywords Abstract Author Upik Djalins Paul Scholten and the Founding of the Batavia Rechtshogeschool ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Upik Djalins•  7  Legal Education, Law and Society, Sociolegal studies, Colonial EducationHerders van Java: Jezuïeten en de perceptie van Nederlands geweld in de Indonesische Onafhankelijkheidsoorlog, 1945-1949Propaedeutic thesis about the Jesuits' perception of colonial violence by the Dutch during the Indonesian Independence War. Focusing on individual Catholic Missionaries, Chaplains and Bishops: Monsignor Willekens SJ of Batavia and... morePropaedeutic thesis about the Jesuits' perception of colonial violence by the Dutch during the Indonesian Independence War. Focusing on individual Catholic Missionaries, Chaplains and Bishops: Monsignor Willekens SJ of Batavia and Monsignor Soegijapranata SJ. My conclusion is that Jesuit army chaplains and Bishop Willikens did comment on colonial violence, but generally did not consider it to be a structural problem of which the Dutch goverment could be blamed. Bishop Soegijapranata and the Dutch Jesuit magazine 'De Linie' on the other hand did blame the Dutch for the violence and condemned the violence completely.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bas van Nieuwland•  13  Catholic Missionary History, Indonesia, Catholicism, JesuitsRecensie Henk den Heijer, Geschiedenis van de WIC. Opkomst, bloei en ondergang (Walburg Pers 2013) in: Kleio-Historia, nr. 5. (2017)Save to LibraryDownloadby Mark Beumer•  28  History, Slavery, History of Slavery, ColonialismDen Haag - 'Sporen van Smaragd in de Hofstad''Overview of the naming of streets and neighbourhoods in The Hague after locations from the former Dutch East Indies and historical figures from its colonial history. This article is intended for a book on such naming practices in various... moreOverview of the naming of streets and neighbourhoods in The Hague after locations from the former Dutch East Indies and historical figures from its colonial history. This article is intended for a book on such naming practices in various cities across the Netherlands as a commemoration of the historical ties with Indonesia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andréa A. Kroon•  12  Indonesian History, Colonialism, Dutch History, City and Regional PlanningPublic Interest, Private Initiative. PPP for Heritage Conservation in IndonesiaAn executive team from the Netherlands, Indonesia and India visited Semarang, Yogyakarta and Jakarta in October 2014, to search for potential pilot projects which focus on PPP in heritage conservation. The government and private sectors... moreAn executive team from the Netherlands, Indonesia and India visited Semarang, Yogyakarta and Jakarta in October 2014, to search for potential pilot projects which focus on PPP in heritage conservation. The government and private sectors of each city shared ideas on opportunities and challenges on this matter. This report outlines the key findings of the working visits and a round table meeting organized on the use of PPP for heritage conservation in Indonesia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Timmer•  6  Indonesia, Public Private Partnerships, Built Heritage, Cultural Heritage, Urban Art, Urban Design, Urban Regeneration Through Art, Urban Light, Urban Development, Rehabilitation, Reuse of Industrial Buildings., Dutch East IndiesBachelor Thesis: De Relatie Tussen Beeldvorming in de Media en de Nasleep van Onze ‘Vuile Oorlog’ in Indië – Chapter IVIn dit hoofdstuk presenteer ik de belangrijkste bevindingen en uitspraken uit mijn diepte-interviews met de respondenten. Ik geef hiermee antwoord op de deelvragen ‘Wat voor beeld wordt er gevormd in Nederlandse kranten over geweldpleging... moreIn dit hoofdstuk presenteer ik de belangrijkste bevindingen en uitspraken uit mijn diepte-interviews met de respondenten. Ik geef hiermee antwoord op de deelvragen ‘Wat voor beeld wordt er gevormd in Nederlandse kranten over geweldpleging door de Staat in Nederlands-Indië?’, ‘Welk beeld in Nederlandse kranten is exemplarisch voor positieve of negatieve berichtgeving over geweldpleging door de Staat in Nederlands-Indië?’, ‘Wat zijn de belangrijkste reacties geweest van media, Staat of andere betrokkenen op de berichtgeving in kranten over Nederlandse oorlogsmisdaden in Indië?’ en ‘Hoe kijken representatoren voor media, Staat, betrokkenen en/of nabestaanden zelf aan tegen de beeldvorming over de misdragingen in Nederlands-Indië?’ De vijf geïnterviewde experts hebben zich uiteraard uitgelaten over beeldvorming in Nederlandse kranten over verschillende perioden. Ik heb de paragrafen daar voor het gemak tevens chronologisch naar ingedeeld.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jan M. van der Molen VI•  19  Media Studies, Post-Colonialism, Media Influence on Society, Media Bias‘The colonial table: Food, culture and Dutch identity in colonial Indonesia’, Australian Journal of Politics and History, 54:3 (2008): 346-57.This article examines some of the ways in which colonial identities were constructed and maintained with reference to food and eating in the Netherlands Indies (colonial Indonesia) during the late nineteenth and early twentieth... moreThis article examines some of the ways in which colonial identities were constructed andmaintained with reference to food and eating in the Netherlands Indies (colonialIndonesia) during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. It argues that foodwas an important focus for the cultural performance of Europeanness among colonistswith aspirations to European status. Specific notions of class and race informed thesesocial performances, and degrees of competence distinguished between eaters. To eat‘European’ often meant publicly avoiding Indonesian dishes, even if they were enjoyedprivately, and learning to appreciate foods from ‘home’. Class and cultural identityintersected with race at the colonial table.Save to LibraryDownloadby Susie Protschky•  4  Visual Culture, Colonialism, Food History, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaLife and Times: The Temporal Habitations of R. A. KartiniThis article explores the remarkable temporal perceptions and attempted historical habitations of a young Javanese noblewoman at the turn of the century in the Dutch East Indies. It examines the ways in which this young woman used the... moreThis article explores the remarkable temporal perceptions and attempted historical habitations of a young Javanese noblewoman at the turn of the century in the Dutch East Indies. It examines the ways in which this young woman used the concepts of relative temporality, civilizational evolution, and stagist histories to challenge both the imposition of Dutch colonialism and the conventions of her indigenous culture. Her vivid and thoughtful correspondences reveal a greatly expanded realm of human agency with regard to perceived temporality and one’s mobility within evolutionary time. She demonstrated a much understudied aspect of colonial resistance that is at the heart of the temporal concept of modernity.Save to LibraryDownloadby Michael Hawkins•  4  Philosophy of Time, Agency, Raden Ajeng Kartini, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaFrancois Valentijn: Oud en Nieuw Oost IndiënOver de Dordrechtse predikant François Valentijn (1666-1727), die voor de V.O.C. twee perioden verbleef in Nederlands-Indië en een standaardwerk schreef over de lokale flora en fauna.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Nieuwenhuizen•  5  Indonesia, Dutch History, Dutch overseas history, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaДеколонизация афро-азиатского мира: предпосылки, этапы, моделиВ статье рассматривается комплекс предпосылок распада колониальной системы в Азии и Африке в середине 1940-х – середине 1970-х годов, дается краткий историографический обзор этой проблемы. Выделены этапы процесса деколонизации, его... moreВ статье рассматривается комплекс предпосылок распада колониальной системы в Азии и Африке в середине 1940-х – середине 1970-х годов, дается краткий историографический обзор этой проблемы. Выделены этапы процесса деколонизации, его основные модели и схемы его осуществления в разных колониальных империях. В заключении статьи автор касается проблемы прогнозируемости деколонизации. The article deals with the complex of prerequisites for the disintegration of the colonial system in Asia and Africa from mid-1940s to mid-1970s. A concise historiographical overview of the problem is presented. The author distinguishes stages of the decolonization process, its main models and schemes of its implementation in different colonial empires. In the conclusion he touches upon the problem of the predictability of decolonization.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kirill Fursov•  6  Colonialism, French colonialism, British Empire, Decolonization (African History)'Neat Nature. The relation between art and nature in a Dutch cabinet of curiosities from the early eighteenth century' in: History of Science 42 (2004), p. 47-84Save to LibraryDownloadby Bert  van de Roemer•  9  Art History, History of Mathematics, History of Collections, 17th Century Dutch RepublicDe Atjehers, Snouck HurgronjeChristiaan Snouck Hurgronje adviseerde de Nederlandse overheid de opstandige geestelijkheid in Atjeh middels een 'gevoelig slaan', een harde militaire aanpak, te elimineren en tegelijkertijd banden aan te gaan met de inheemse feodale... moreChristiaan Snouck Hurgronje adviseerde de Nederlandse overheid de opstandige geestelijkheid in Atjeh middels een 'gevoelig slaan', een harde militaire aanpak, te elimineren en tegelijkertijd banden aan te gaan met de inheemse feodale hoofden. In zijn 'wetenschappelijke' tweedelige werk De Atjehers uit 1893-'94 - gebaseerd op een verblijf van een halfjaar in een maar beperkt door Nederlanders bezet deel van Atjeh - zet hij uiteen hoe de Atjeeër en zijn religie zich in dat geval verder zullen ontwikkelen. 'Ten slotte zal hij moeten toegeven; de djihaad-leer zal hij ronduit moeten laten varen en voor een deel overbrengen naar de praktisch onschuldige leer omtrent de laatste dagen. Dan zal de islam zich van andere grote godsdiensten alleen onderscheiden door de aanprijzing van een andere catechismus en een ander ritueel ter verwerving van eeuwige zaligheid.'Save to LibraryDownloadby Alexander van 't Hoff•  2  Islamic History, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaJahoedi: Joden in Nederlands-Indië.BA Scriptie.Save to LibraryDownloadby C. D O Passo Vaia•  2  Jewish History, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaIslamic nationhood and colonial indonesiaIslamic nationhood and colonial indonesia - the umma below the winds / 2002 by michael Francis laffanSave to LibraryDownloadby Hannay  Gamal•  17  Indonesian History, Indonesian Studies, Indonesia, Ummah StudiesSejarah Freemasonry di Indonesia Eksistensi Gerakan Freemasonry Di Karawang 1926 1942 Faizal ArifinThe background of this research has emerged from a lack of studies on Freemasonry in small towns or district areas in the Dutch East Indies, because research on Freemasonry in Indonesia is limited to its development in large cities or... moreThe background of this research has emerged from a lack of studies on Freemasonry in small towns or district areas in the Dutch East Indies, because research on Freemasonry in Indonesia is limited to its development in large cities or provincial regions. Freemasonry is the largest secret society in the New Age Movement which was founded in 1717 in England, spread throughout the world and many world leaders, politicians and professionals were members. In 1756 the Great Loge of Netherlands was established as the beginning of the formation of Freemasonry in the Netherlands. Freemasonry was established in the Dutch East Indies when two lodges were established in 1767 and 1769. The Great Loge of Nederland was recirded that the number of lodges in the Dutch East Indies in the golden period reached 25 lodges and 1,500 members. Methods used for this research is historical methods, that consists of heuristics, critics, interpretation and historiography. The main problem of this research is “What is the activity of Freemasonry at Karawang and who are the influential figures in the Krawangsche Kring?” The results of this research show that Freemasonry in addition to exist in large cities also developed in small town areas such as Karawang and even some local figures became members. This local-branch of Freemasonry is called "De Krawangsche Kring" or "Vrijmetselaarkring Krawang" which carried out various activities from 1926 until Japanese occupation (1942). De Krawangsche Kring held regular meetings since it was founded and had been vacuumed in 1930-1933 until new officials were appointed to succeed in reactivating organizational activities. Various annual or monthly routine meetings are held with several objectives, namely developing and evaluating organizations, holding discussions with themes such as science, occultism, magic, mysterious, supernatural and spiritual.Save to LibraryDownloadby Faizal Arifin•  15  Indonesian History, Colonialism, Freemasonry, Research into FreemasonryRIJSTTAFEL BUDAYA KULINER DI INDONESIA MASA KOLONIAL 1870-1942Perkembangan khazanah kuliner Indonesia tidak dapat dipisahkan dari persentuhannya dengan berbagai kebudayaan. Masyarakat berada di antara dua kondisi: mempertahankan unsur budaya asli atau menerima unsur baru lalu menyesuaikannya ke... morePerkembangan khazanah kuliner Indonesia tidak dapat dipisahkan dari persentuhannya dengan berbagai kebudayaan. Masyarakat berada di antara dua kondisi: mempertahankan unsur budaya asli atau menerima unsur baru lalu menyesuaikannya ke dalam kebudayaan sendiri. Dalam hal ini, local genius memegang peranan amat penting. Pada masa kolonial ada satu budaya yang dikenal dengan istilah Rijtsttafel. Rijsttafel merupakan konsep budaya makan modern pertama dalam sejarah kuliner Indonesia yang terlahir dari proses akulturasi pribumi dan Belanda yang berkembang sejak pertengahan abad ke 19. Rijst sendiri berarti nasi sedangkan tafel selain berarti meja juga bermakna kias untuk hidangan. Budaya ini muncul setelah minimnya makanan eropa untuk makan sehari-hari sehingga orang-orang Belanda di Hindia Belanda pun mulai beradaptasi dengan makanan pribumi,sehingga lambat laun pola kebiasaan dan pola makan mereka pun turut berubah. Faktor kondusif sangat erat kaitannya dengan pengaruh makanan pribumi terhadap kehidupan sehari-hari orang Belanda yang hidup dalam lingkungan masyarakat pribumi, yang menjadikan kebiasaan makan hidangan pribumi begitu melekat dan disukai dalam pola makan sehari-hari orang-orang Belanda, selain itu faktor pendukung peran orang-orang Belanda dengan kebudayaan mereka juga turut berperan sehingga perpaduan inilah yang membantu dalam berkembangnya Rijsttafel. Lama kelamaan Rijsttafel mengalami perkembangan dalam hal penyajian hidangan dan variasi makanan,dapat dilihat dari dalam kombinasi makanan pribumi dengan tata saji Barat sehingga makanan pribumi pun disajikan lazimnya hidangan Eropa. Seperti penggunaan peranti alat-alat makan seperti sendok,garpu,pisau,piring, ditambah meja dan kursi padahal hingga kurun abad ke 19 etika makan demikian sangat tidak cocok dengan kondisi makan orang pribumi karena hidangan nasi dan makanan pribumi telah disiapkan sesuap-sesuap menggunakan tangan. Keadaan ini menunjukkan ketimpangan budaya yang dinyatakan J. Hageman sebagai " unsur Eropa sebagai ideal dan unsur Jawa sebagai tambahan ". Disini secara tidak langsung terkandung makna penonjolan dan pengenalan unsur-unsur budaya Barat dalam ruang lingkup kehidupan pribumi. Seperti budaya indis lainnya, Rijsttafel tidak lebih sebagai diskriminasi budaya yang lazim diterapkan para kolonialis di wilayah jajahan. Memasuki awal abad 20, Rijsttafel mengalami semacam formalisasi yang melahirkan berbagai bentuk inovasi penyajian sehingga menunjukkan perkembangan penting dan menarik. Selain itu pada akhir abad 19 dan memasuki abad 20 Jawa menjadi tempat pilihan para turis yang ingin berkunjung ke Hindia Belanda karena popularitas dan keidentikan Jawa dengan nilai-nilai kebudayaan dan keeksotisan alamnya, dan salah satu yang menjadi daya tarik bagi para turis Eropa adalah Rijsttafel. Pada masa itu Rijsttafel telah menjadi semacam nilai jual untuk menarik para turis berkunjung ke Jawa melalui promosi yang gencar dilakukan. Seiring pesatnya perkembangan modernisasi di Jawa pada awal abad 20 turut serta memajukan industri Pariwisata. Hal ini turut membawa dampak terhadap munculnya sarana wisataSave to LibraryDownloadby Ahmad Faisol•  3  History, Food History, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaTernate: The Residency and its Sultanate [P.M. Taylor's edited & annotated English translation from original Dutch by F.S.A. de Clercq, 1890]This is P.M. Taylor's edited and annotated translation of "Ternate: The Residency and its Sultanate", by F.S.A. de Clercq. (Original Dutch: "Bijdragen tot de kennis der Residentie Ternate". Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1890.) Edited witn an... moreThis is P.M. Taylor's edited and annotated translation of "Ternate: The Residency and its Sultanate", by F.S.A. de Clercq. (Original Dutch: "Bijdragen tot de kennis der Residentie Ternate". Leiden:  E.J. Brill, 1890.) Edited witn an "Introduction," "Notes on Transcription and Translation," and annotations by Paul M. Taylor; translated by Paul Michael Taylor and Marie N. Richards. =========The publication of this edited volume will help alleciate the paucity of source materials available in English on this historially important region. This book, first published in 1890, also serves as a well-written example of gentlemanly scholarship by a Dutch colonial civil servant of the time. The author was a truly involved and active amateur in the best sense (and the etymological sense) of that term: he loved his subject-matter. He also cared deeply for the success of the colonial enterprise. He presents a vivid and informative account of court life at the historic sultanate of Ternate, joined to a travelogue about the far-flung dependencies of the sultanate, as told by a witty and opinionated observer with many interests -- who happened also to be the "Resident" or supreme local representative of the colonial government. This translation tries to convey the detailed data de Clercq presents while also preserving the pungent style with which he leads the reader on this tour of his Residency.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul Michael Taylor•  12  Indonesian History, Indonesian Studies, Colonialism, IndonesiaResensi Buku Max Havelaar - MultatuliMax Havelaar adalah sebuah buku yang ditulis oleh Multatuli. Buku Max Havelaar pertama diterbitkan pada tahun 1860. Multatuli adalah penulis asal belanda yang terkenal karena tulisannya tersebut. Multatuli adalah sebuah nama pena. Nama... moreMax Havelaar adalah sebuah buku yang ditulis oleh Multatuli. Buku Max Havelaar pertama diterbitkan pada tahun 1860. Multatuli adalah penulis asal belanda yang terkenal karena tulisannya tersebut. Multatuli adalah sebuah nama pena. Nama Asli dari multatuli adalah Eduard Douwes Dekker. Multatuli lahir di Amsterdan dan pada 1838 ia pergi ke Jawa dan memperoleh jabatan sebagai pegawai negeri sipil yang ditempatkan di Lebak, Banten. Buku Max Havelaar ini mengecam pelanggaran kolonialisme di Indonesia. Berkisah bahwa Max Havelaar adalah seorang asisten residen di Lebak. Buku tersebut menceritakan bagaimana pengalaman Max havelaar untuk menjadi asisten residen di lebak dan setelahnya Cerita Max Havelaar merupakan contoh nyata dari Historiografi Kolonialisme, yaitu penulisnya orang Belanda dan merupakan sebuah penulisan dari zaman penjajahan belanda. Tulisan ini lebih tepat disebut sejarah kehidupan bangsa Belanda di Hinda Belanda di Indonesia: aktivitas-aktivitas warga Belanda, pemerintahan kolonial, pegawai kumpeni, dan kegiatan para gubernur jenderal dalam menjalankan tugasnya di Hindia Belanda, bersifat pokok Eropa-sentris dan Belanda-sentris, perlawanan rakyat Indonesia dan Belanda dengan kenyataan sebenarnya. Banyak karakteristik dan ciri-ciri historiografi kolonialisme yang terdapat dalam cerita ini.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nadila Pradana Fahyan•  8  Indonesian History, Historiography, Literary History, Dutch HistoryDie verlorengegangenen Schiffe der Niederländischen Ostindienkompanie (VOC) This work overviews complete lists and cartographic as well as statistical analysis of the lost ships of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) during 17th and 18th century. The various possibilities of eventual future archaeological research... moreThis work overviews complete lists and cartographic as well as statistical analysis of the lost ships of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) during 17th and 18th century. The various possibilities of eventual future archaeological research of the minimum 734 ships are also examined.  Diese Arbeit ist eine Zusammentragung aller Schiffsverluste der Niederländischen Ostindienkompanie (und ihrer Vorgängergesellschaften) während des 17. und 18. Jhd. und beinhaltet kartographische sowie statistische Analysen zu den archäologischen Erkenntnissen und Möglichkeiten der mindestens 734 Schiffe. Dit werk omvat de volledige lijsten en kartering alsmede statistische analyses van de schip verliezen van de Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie (VOC) tijdens de 17e en 18e eeuw. De vele mogelijkheden van toekomst archeologisch onderzoek van deze 734 schepen zijn ook behandelt.  [* Sensible data is blackened * Sensible Daten sind geschwärzt * Vertrouwelijke gegevens zijn zwart *]Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten Bracker•  26  Maritime Archaeology, Historical Archaeology, Archaeology of Colonialisms, ColonialismThe lost ships of the Dutch East India Company – a cartographic analysisOverview on all shipwrecks of the Dutch East India company (summary of original thesis in German, 2014): Statistical analysis of at least 734 lost ships of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) during 17th and 18th century. Dit samenvatting... moreOverview on all shipwrecks of the Dutch East India company (summary of original thesis in German, 2014): Statistical analysis of at least 734 lost ships of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) during 17th and 18th century. Dit samenvatting van een 2014 geschreven werk omvat en analyses van de schip verliezen van de Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie (VOC) tijdens de 17e en 18e eeuw. De vele mogelijkheden van toekomst archeologisch onderzoek van deze 734 schepen zijn ook behandelt. Ringkasan ini mencakup 2.014 karya yang ditulis dan analisis kerugian kapal dari Belanda East India Company (VOC) pada abad ke-17 dan ke-18. Banyak kemungkinan untuk penelitian arkeologi masa depan 734 kapal ini memperlakukan. Zusammenfassung einer 2014 verfassten Arbeit bezüglich aller mindestens 734 Schiffsverluste der Niederländischen Ostindienkompanie (VOC) während des 17. und 18. Jhd.Save to LibraryDownloadby Karsten Bracker•  44  Maritime Archaeology, Historical Archaeology, Southeast Asian Studies, Maritime History(Book) From White to Yellow:  The Japanese in European Racial Thought, 1300-1735When Europeans first landed in Japan they encountered people they perceived as white-skinned and highly civilized, but these impressions did not endure. Gradually the Europeans' positive impressions faded away and Japanese were seen as... moreWhen Europeans first landed in Japan they encountered people they perceived as white-skinned and highly civilized, but these impressions did not endure. Gradually the Europeans' positive impressions faded away and Japanese were seen as yellow-skinned and relatively inferior. Accounting for this dramatic transformation, From White to Yellow is a pioneering study of the evolution of European interpretations of the Japanese and the emergence of discourses about race in early modern Europe. Transcending the conventional focus on Africans and Jews within the rise of modern racism, Rotem Kowner demonstrates that the invention of race did not emerge in a vacuum in eighteenth-century Europe, but rather was a direct product of earlier discourses of the "Other." This compelling study indicates that the racial discourse on the Japanese, alongside the Chinese, played a major role in the rise of the modern concept of race. While challenging Europe's self-possession and sense of centrality, the discourse delayed the eventual consolidation of a hierarchical worldview in which Europeans stood immutably at the apex. Drawing from a vast array of primary sources, From White to Yellow traces the racial roots of the modern clash between Japan and the West.ENDORSEMENTS“This magisterial work by Rotem Kowner fills an important gap in contemporary scholarship about racial history and European perceptions of the Japanese during the age of maritime explorations, beginning with the voyages of Marco Polo. The author approaches a delicate and complex topic with a breadth of knowledge and erudition based on the careful analysis of primary documents from a wide variety of both printed and manuscript sources in numerous languages.” M. Antoni J. Ucerler, S.J. Director of the Ricci Institute, University of San Francisco“Rotem Kowner has written an extraordinary book which will be must-reading for anyone interested in Western perceptions of the Japanese from the beginning (Marco Polo’s account) to the 18th century, and to anyone interested in the history of the very concept of ‘race.’" Gary Leupp, Department of History, Tufts University“Erudite, comprehensive, and clearly-written, From White to Yellow offers the reader a panorama of the Euro-Japanese encounter in the pre-modern period that is unsurpassed in previous scholarship.” Ronnie Hsia, Department of History, Pennsylvania State University REVIEWS“This is a path-breaking book, rich in insights and extraordinary well researched. ... This is a dense book, exhaustive in its treatment of European writings on Japan and duly aware of the need to keep in mind how Europeans wrote about Others. There are fascinating explorations of topics such as slavery, miscegenation, and George Psalmanazar, the self-styled Japanese. … [T]he text of this volume covers only slightly more than half of the pages and most of the rest is taken up by endnotes, many of them as long as a paragraph and some filling half a page, together with a huge bibliography covering works in twelve languages. Not only do the notes testify to the prodigious labor that has gone into this book, but they also show how meticulously Kowner has explored the ramifications and details of encounters between Europeans and the various Others they encountered. … This book is, though, unsurpassed in its careful examination of European writings on Japan, and the efficient index makes Kowner’s analyses and coverage of the literature easily accessible”Peter Kornicki, Journal of World History 27 (2016): 347–350“From White to Yellow is a big book in every way. The product of immense research, it is an exceptionally ambitious work that makes a string of innovative and far-reaching arguments. Even more strikingly, it is simply the first of a planned two-volume series that, once completed, will span over six hundred years of European interactions with Japan. ... The scale of the task and the depth of the research invite a comparison to Donald Lach’s Asia in the Making of Europe, a groundbreaking series that can best be described as an almost supernatural feat of scholarship. … Overall the work is a significant achievement that should be read by anyone working in the field. It moves Japan from the margins to the very center of discussions over the development of early modern racial discourse, making a powerful case for the importance of the European encounter with Japan. Japan represented a problem for Europeans, and Kowner brilliantly dissects the varied ways in which they struggled to deal with it in the early modern period.”Adam Clulow, Monumenta Nipponica 71 (2016): 140–143“The book is a remarkable scholarly achievement and in some ways almost too detailed in its exposition. It throws valuable light on evolving European attitudes to race and to racial hierarchies and demonstrates how they were filtered through different social mechanisms – religion, trade, power – and how despite empirical evidence, few Europeans could actually ‘see’ racial differences in the case of the Japanese, even depicting their clothing in a quasi-European style in paintings and engravings. … Kowner’s book is the outcome of years of scholarly investigation in many languages including Japanese, Chinese, Portuguese, Latin, Spanish, German, English and yet others and is exhaustively documented with fully half of its almost 700 pages being devoted to sources, notes and bibliography. Its essential theme is the tracing of the transformation and images that slowly moved the Japanese from being seen as ‘white race’ to re-classification as a ‘yellow’ one, along it may be said with the Chinese and the Koreans, whose racial history in relation to the West is inevitably part of the larger story of the transformation of perceptions as they applied to East Asia as a whole, and the light that this sheds on the roots of racial and racialist thought in the West. ….”John Clammer, Ethnic and Racial Studies 39 (2016): 1500–1502“In this erudite, complex, and ambitious work, Rotem Kowner examines how Europeans came to see the Japanese nation as “yellow” and inferior, after initially perceiving them as “white” equals. ... Kowner’s work complicates the history of the construction and development of the idea of race by examining the European encounter with the Japanese, whom Europeans initially found different but not culturally or materially inferior  ... A short review cannot do justice to Kowner’s rich, multilayered work. The concluding chapter offers a prologue for the forthcoming second volume, which will examine how the Japanese were relegated to inferiority in the eighteenth century, and how a virulently racial discourse ensued.”Robert Entenmann, Journal of Jesuit Studies (2016): 132–134."It is an unsurpassable analysis redolent of superb scholarship. In the end, Kowner makes a strong case that, from 1300 to 1735, Europeans slowly arrived at a system that enabled them to present a universal hierarchical taxonomy of humankind--based on rudimentary notions of race--with themselves at its apex. ... From White to Yellow does help us to understand ''the mechanisms that govern[ed] the rise and evolution of the concept of race in early modern times.'' In doing so, it richly expands our perspective on the origins of race and racism." Nam-lin Hur, University of Toronto Quarterly 85:3 (2016): 533-534.“Kowner’s work is unique in that, unlike the majority of studies that focus on race in East Asia, it aims to elucidate the emergence of these distinctions at a much earlier point in Euro-Japanese relations—in fact, from their origin, if such can be found. … Focusing on the five centuries between Marco Polo’s first report of a mysterious island called Cipangu and Linnaeus’s categorization of the Japanese as a “yellow” race in 1735, Kowner builds a compelling argument that traces the development of racism from Europeans’ earliest imaginings of the Japanese people to the heart of Enlightenment thought. ... From Yellow to White is also notable for the breadth of its source materials, which, despite spanning several languages and centuries, are housed within a sound and well-organized theoretical framework; I can think of many other works that attempt to do the same but lack the clarity found here. The discussion of Japanese slavery, which tends to be a less-discussed topic in Japanese historiography, as well as of the cultural similarities between Japanese and their European observers, receive remarkably nuanced treatments as points of comparison between Japan and other countries within Europe’s purview. This work is therefore both timely and adds something new to the contemporary debate on the birth of race in Western thought.”Christina Ghanbarpour, Itinerario 40 (2016): 318–320TABLE OF CONTENTSFigures xiNote on Translations and Conventions xvAcknowledgments xixPreface xxiiiIntroduction 3PHASE ONE SPECULATION: Pre-Encounter Knowledge of the Japanese (1300-1543) 331 The Emergence of “Cipangu” and Its Precursory Ethnography 352 The “Cipanguese” at the Opening of the Age of Discovery 50PHASE TWO OBSERVATION: A Burgeoning Discourse of Initial Encounters (1543-1640) 653 Initial Observations of the Japanese 674 The Japanese Position in Contemporary Hierarchies 1015 Concrete Mirrors of a New Human Order 1436 “Race” and Its Cognitive Limits during the Phase of Observation 181PHASE THREE RECONSIDERATION: Antecedents of a Mature Discourse (1640-1735) 2017 Dutch Reappraisal of the Japanese Body and Origins 2098 Power, Status, and the Japanese Position in the Global Order 2249 In Search of a New Taxonomy: Botany, Medicine, and the Japanese 25110 “Race” and Its Perceptual Limits during the Phase of Reconsideration 283Conclusion: The Discourse of Race in Early Modern Europe and the Japanese Case 309Notes 345Bibliography 511Index 617Save to LibraryDownloadby Rotem KOWNER•  112  Discourse Analysis, Christianity, History, European HistoryNama Jalan Bandoeng (zaman Belanda) dan Bandung sekarang.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sugiri Kustedja•  7  Historical Geography, Indonesia, Identity and heritage of Historical Cities, Dutch overseas historyCollective Memory and the Dutch East Indies Unremembering DecolonizationCollective Memory and the Dutch East Indies: Unremembering Decolonization examines the afterlife of decolonization in the collective memory of the Netherlands. It offers a new perspective on the cultural history of representing the... moreCollective Memory and the Dutch East Indies: Unremembering Decolonization examines the afterlife of decolonization in the collective memory of the Netherlands. It offers a new perspective on the cultural history of representing the decolonization of the Dutch East Indies, and maps out how a contested collective memory was shaped. Taking a transdisciplinary approach and applying several theoretical frames from literary studies, sociology, cultural anthropology and film theory, the author reveals how mediated memories contributed to a process of what he calls "unremembering." He analyses in detail a broad variety of sources, including novels, films, documentaries, radio interviews, memoirs and historical studies, to reveal how five decades of representing and remembering decolonization fed into an unremembering by which some key notions were silenced or ignored. The author concludes that historians, or the historical guild, bear much responsibility for the unremembering of decolonization in Dutch collective memory.Save to LibraryDownloadby Paul M M Doolan•  19  Colonialism (History), Postcolonial Studies, Historical memory, Memory StudiesSistem Landrente Oleh RafflesSave to LibraryDownloadby Dicki  Arief•Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaCollective Memory and the Dutch East IndiesCollective Memory and the Dutch East Indies: Unremembering Decolonization examines the afterlife of decolonization in the collective memory of the Netherlands. It offers a new perspective on the cultural history of representing the... moreCollective Memory and the Dutch East Indies: Unremembering Decolonization examines the afterlife of decolonization in the collective memory of the Netherlands. It offers a new perspective on the cultural history of representing the decolonization of the Dutch East Indies, and maps out how a contested collective memory was shaped. Taking a transdisciplinary approach and applying several theoretical frames from literary studies, sociology, cultural anthropology and film theory, the author reveals how mediated memories contributed to a process of what he calls &quot;unremembering.&quot; He analyses in detail a broad variety of sources, including novels, films, documentaries, radio interviews, memoirs and historical studies, to reveal how five decades of representing and remembering decolonization fed into an unremembering by which some key notions were silenced or ignored. The author concludes that historians, or the historical guild, bear much responsibility for the unremembering of d...Save to Libraryby Paul M M Doolan•  13  Media Studies, Literature, Heritage Studies, Postcolonial StudiesSYekh Yusuf al-MakassariSyekh Yusuf, Muhammad Yusuf, seorang ulama Nusantara dan pejuang kemerdekaan Indonesia di abad ke 17 M. Dia wafat pada tanggal 22 Mei 1699 di Afrika Selatan, tapatnya di kota Kaap. Dia mengalmi tiga kali pengasingan; Banten, Ceylon, dan... moreSyekh Yusuf, Muhammad Yusuf, seorang ulama Nusantara dan pejuang kemerdekaan Indonesia di abad ke 17 M. Dia wafat pada tanggal 22 Mei 1699 di Afrika Selatan, tapatnya di kota Kaap. Dia mengalmi tiga kali pengasingan; Banten, Ceylon, dan Afrika Selatan. Beberapa karyanya menjadi pegangan utama di pesantren-pesantren salafi seperti Safinat an-Najaat dan Sirr al-Asraar. Di tahun  1995, dia mendapatkan gelar pahlawan dari pemerintah Indonesia, dan pada tahun 2005 mendapatkan gelar pahlawan dari Presiden Afrika Selatan, J. M. Mbazi.Save to LibraryDownloadby Muhammad Nur I C H S A N Azis•  4  Indonesian History, Indonesian Studies, History of the Islamic World, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaBatavia and Colombo. The Ethnic and Spatial Order of Two Colonial Cities 1600-1800 (Ph.D. thesis; Leiden 1996)Save to LibraryDownloadby Remco Raben•  7  Indonesian History, Urban History, Race and Ethnicity, ColonialismKota Pelabuhan Semarang Dalam Kuasa Kolonial: Implikasi Sosial Budaya Kebijakan Maritim, Tahun 1800an-1940anSemarang merupakan kota pelabuhan yang berkembang terutama sejak abad XVIII, setelah dikuasai Belanda. Seiring dengan berjalannya waktu, Semarang menjadi pelabuhan vital terbesar ke-2 pada medio abad XIX dan ke-3 pada abad XX. Hal ini... moreSemarang merupakan kota pelabuhan yang berkembang terutama sejak abad XVIII, setelah dikuasai Belanda. Seiring dengan berjalannya waktu, Semarang menjadi pelabuhan vital terbesar ke-2 pada medio abad XIX dan ke-3 pada abad XX. Hal ini menyebabkan pemerintah kolonial mengeluarkan kebijakan secara berkelanjutan untuk pengembangan  pelabuhan Semarang. Kebijakan tersebut tentunya melibatkan banyak tangan, terutama dari pihak kolonial, pribumi (Jawa) serta etnis lain yang juga   ikut meramaikan aktivitas perniagaan di pelabuhan Semarang. Sudah barang tentu, heterogenitas masyarakat di sekitar pelabuhan juga menjadi kendala pemerintah kolonial dalam mengimplementasikan pengembangan pelabuhan,  manajemen pelabuhan dan transportasi pelabuhan. Kondisi tersebut juga berpengaruh pada aspek kehidupan sosial budaya masyarakat di kota pelabuhan Semarang.  Hal tersebut diulas mendalam menggunakan metode sejarah, sehingga penelitian ini merupakan penelitian kualitatif yang menjelaskan hubungan sebab-akibat. Kuasa  pemerintah kolonial memunculkan kebijakan terkait pengembangan pelabuhan kemudian menjadikan Semarang sebagai kota pelabuhan dengan penduduk yang heterogen dan padat. Oleh karena itu, heterogenitas dan kepadatan penduduk berimplikasi pada perubahan tata kota dan kehidupan sosial budaya, karena singgungan lintas etnis. Muncul patologi sosial terkait perdagangan manusia, penyelundupan senjata dan opium. Selain itu, muncul karya budaya baru, seperti dalam seni musik jawa (gending Cinonagih) sebagai bentuk akulturasi etnis Jawa-dan Tionghoa, serta tradisi Dugderan dengan Warak Ngendok  sebagai akulturasi multietnis di kota pelabuhan Semarang.Save to LibraryDownloadby Indra Fibiona•  3  Colonialism, Social and Cultural History, Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaThe Internment of Germans in Dutch East India and the Japanese Sinking of the Van ImhoffGermans have been involved with the Dutch colonial and trading activities in Southeast Asia for centuries. Even the well-known medical doctors and Japan-scholars Caspar Schamberger (1623-1706), Engelbert Kaempfer (1651-1716) and Philipp... moreGermans have been involved with the Dutch colonial and trading activities in Southeast Asia for centuries. Even the well-known medical doctors and Japan-scholars Caspar Schamberger (1623-1706), Engelbert Kaempfer (1651-1716) and Philipp Franz von Siebold (1796-1866), actually worked for the “Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie” (VOC), better known as Dutch East India Company at its famous trading post Deshima in Nagasaki harbor, thus creating some triangle relationship between Germany, the Netherlands, and Japan. In this paper I want to briefly introduce the post-WWI activities of Germans in Dutch East India itself, focusing on their working experiences as well as on the outpost of the Tokyo-based German East Asiatic Society in Batavia (1934-40). The main part of the paper will deal with the internment of all Germans in the Dutch colony after the occupation of the Netherlands by the Third Reich in late spring 1940. While women and children were subsequently allowed to leave the colony either for Shanghai or Japan, German men remained in camps until they were transferred to Ceylon in early 1942. As this was a few months after the Pearl Harbor attacks, one of the three transport ships, the Van Imhoff, was actually sunk during this transfer by a Japanese plane, killing about 480 Germans onboard. Most likely, this was the highest number of German casualties in the Pacific theatre of war at one stroke, ironically killed by the Third Reich’s axis partner Japan. After WWII, it became clear that the Dutch crew of the Van Imhoff saved itself without providing any support to the Germans in their custody, causing some uproar in the mid-1960s when the case was discussed in West-German media. The aim of this paper is to remind the audience of the cooperation of Germans with Dutch colonialism and the fact that Japan was more than once the third party involved, by providing the working space for some German VOC-employees from the 17th to the 19th century, by accepting hundreds of German refugees from the Dutch colony in 1941 and by tragically killing 480 Germany on a Dutch transport ship in February 1942.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian W. Spang•  7  Modern Japanese History, Modern German History, Dutch History, Dutch East India CompanyThe Singapore and Melaka Straits: Violence, Security and Diplomacy in the 17th CenturyThe Singapore and Melaka Straits are a place where regional and long-distance maritime trading networks converge, linking Europe, the Mediterranean, eastern Africa, the Arabian Peninsula and the Indian subcontinent with key centres of... moreThe Singapore and Melaka Straits are a place where regional and long-distance maritime trading networks converge, linking Europe, the Mediterranean, eastern Africa, the Arabian Peninsula and the Indian subcontinent with key centres of trade in Thailand, Indochina, insular Southeast Asia, China, Korea and Japan. The first half of the seventeenth century brought heightened political, commercial and diplomatic activity to this region. It has long been clear to both the Portuguese and the Dutch that whoever controlled the waters off modern Singapore gained a firm grip on regional as well as long-distance intra-Asian trade. By the early 1600s Portuguese power and prestige were waning and the arrival of the Dutch East India Company constituted a major threat. Moreover, the rapid expansion and growing power of the Acehnese Empire, and rivalry between Johor and Aceh, was creating a new context for European trade in Asia. Drawing on maps, rare printed works, and unpublished manuscripts written in Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch and Latin, Peter Borschberg provides new information on the diplomatic activities of Asian powers, and shows how the Portuguese and Spanish attempted to restore their political fortunes by containing the rapid rise of Dutch Power in the region. Key documents, transcribed and translated into English for the first time, make up a series of appendices. The product of more than two decades of research in European libraries, archives, The Singapore and Melaka Straits will be of great interest to readers in Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia, where little is known about this pivotal pre-colonial period. It is also an invaluable resource for historians and other students of early modern Europe and of the European presence in Asia."""Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter Borschberg•  155  Business, History, Economic History, Diplomatic HistoryGALERIJ VAN NEDERLANDSE EN OP NEDERLANDS GRONDGEBIED VERBLIJVENDE BUITENLANDSE DUELLISTENSave to LibraryDownloadby ignaz matthey•  10  Military History, Martial Arts (Anthropology), Dueling and Codes of Honor, Dutch HistoryShipwrecks of the “Carreira da Índia” (1595-1623) – Sources for the Study in Portuguese Maritime HistoryMA Thesis in Maritime History (Faculty of Letters, Lisbon University FLUL, 2014) - revised version The present thesis Shipwrecks of the “Carreira da Índia” (1595-1623) – Sources for the Study in Portuguese Maritime History deals with... moreMA Thesis in Maritime History (Faculty of Letters, Lisbon University FLUL, 2014) - revised version The present thesis Shipwrecks of the “Carreira da Índia” (1595-1623) – Sourcesfor the Study in Portuguese Maritime History deals with factors which caused losses ofships of the Carreira da Índia which linked the European metropolis Lisbon with itsGoa based Estado da Índia between 1595 and 1623. Although Portuguese-Asiaticshipping was formally separated from the Habsburg Empire during the Union of theTwo Iberian Crowns (1580-1640), the European policies of the Spanish Kings,especially towards the United Provinces and the Netherlands had its influence andeffects on the Portuguese side.Shipwrecks, either on the outward bound or homeward bound voyages hadoccurred for various reasons since the early days of the Carreira da Índia yet theemergence of the two private European Companies, the Dutch United East IndiaCompany (founded in 1602) and the British East India Company (founded in 1600)were a new momentum by which’s characteristics of concurrence and struggle forsupremacy of the European-Asiatic spice trade, losses of Portuguese ships were causedby planned and executed military operations as well.Focusing on the geographical region of the Mozambique Channel in which thelosses have taken place, the thesis combines a historiographical approach with recordsof underwater archaeology analyzing questions related to the political environment andplaned military operations in which shipwrecks have occurred as well as causes ofshipwrecks observing ship building and design modifications and effects related toeconomic patterns such as the monetary flows of the Portuguese outward boundshipping during the period of observation. Naufragios da Careira da Índia (1595-1623)Save to Libraryby Torsten dos Santos Arnold•  157  Naval Architecture, History, European History, History of Science and TechnologyDaendels and the Sacred Space of Java, 1808-1811: Political Relations, Uniforms and the Postweg (Nijmegen: Vantilt, 2013) This is the title page of the Daendels' lecture which I gave to the Daendels' Society in Amsterdam on 22 March 2013. See the pdf of this lecture aboveSave to LibraryDownloadby Peter B Carey•Dutch colonial history in IndonesiaEn el archipielago de la Especiería. España y Molucas en los siglos XVI y XVIISave to LibraryDownloadby Jorge Mojarro•  19  Colonialism, Missionary History, History of Missions, Church HistoryDalam Pelayanan kepada Yang Mulia Raja Belanda: Perjalanan Luar Biasa Kapal Korvet Perang Belanda, Pollux, di Hindia/Indonesia dan Seluruh Dunia, 1824-1838This is the Indonesian translation of my article "On His Netherlands Majesty’s Service: The Remarkable Journeys of the Dutch Corvette-of-war Pollux in the Indies/Indonesia and Around the World, 1824-1838" which was published in the... moreThis is the Indonesian translation of my article  "On His Netherlands Majesty’s Service: The Remarkable Journeys of the Dutch Corvette-of-war Pollux in the Indies/Indonesia and Around the World, 1824-1838" which was published in the Paris-based journal Archipel 102, pp.19-64 in December 2021. Ide pokok dari artikel ini berasal dari 'Servitude et Grandeur Militaires [Kemuliaan dan Ketundukan: Aspek Kehidupan Militer]' (1835) milik Alfred de Vigny, yang menjelaskan empat belas tahun sejarah dari naik-turunnya kapal perang Pollux (1824-38) yang harus merasakan perubahan selama perang kolonial Belanda di Hindia/Indonesia. Kapal yang pertama kali diluncurkan di Rotterdam pada Maret 1824 tersebut segera mendapat ketenaran atas keberhasilannya berlayar keliling dunia melalui Amerika Selatan, Cape Horn, dan Pulau Marquesas dengan ditemani oleh fregat Maria Reigersbergen. Keduanya kemudian juga berhasil menemukan pulau baru di Samudra Pasifik. Akan tetapi, kedatangannya di Jawa pada akhir Agustus 1825 justru menjerumuskannya ke dalam gejolak Perang Jawa (1825-30). Pada masa tersebut, kapal Pollux menjadi moda transportasi pasukan, kapal patroli dan penjara terapung milik Belanda. Titik puncak peranan kapal tersebut adalah pada masa pasca-perang, ketika Pollux dipilih untuk mengangkut pemimpin Perang Jawa, Pangeran Diponegoro (1785-1855), ke pengasingannya di Manado (3 Mei-12 Juni 1830). Dalam dua kesempatan di tahun 1827 dan 1832, perjalanan pulang kapal Pollux ke Belanda membuatnya hampir mengalami petaka. Peristiwa pertama adalah ketika Pollux terhempas badai di timur Tanjung Agulhas (Afrika Selatan) hingga peralatan navigasi dan layar depannya hancur. Peristiwa selanjutnya adalah ketika penyakit skorbut menyapu sepertiga dari awak kapal, termasuk kapten senior dan perwira pertama kapal tersebut. Pollux mengakhiri hari-harinya sebagai kapal penjaga di Sungai Scheldt. Masa kerja singkatnya selama empat belas tahun memberinya tempat duduk paling depan untuk menyaksikan kelahiran negara Hindia Belanda (1816-1942) dan penderitaan musuh-musuh elite Jawa dan Minangnya. Di sela-sela sejarah ini, ada wawasan tentang hukuman biadab yang dijatuhkan kepada awak tentara Belanda, reaksi Diponegoro terhadap hal tersebut, kondisi kapal yang sangat tidak sehat hingga meyakinkan sang pangeran untuk menghindari dokter Belanda, dan budaya minum-minum anggur antara para perwira kapal, yang juga diikuti pangeran.Save to LibraryDownloadby Peter B Carey•  20  History, Medical Sciences, Anthropology, Indonesian History‘Tea cups, cameras and family life: Picturing domesticity in elite European and Javanese family photographs from the Netherlands Indies, c. 1900–1942’, History of Photography, 36:1 (2012): 44-65.This article examines the representation of tea drinking in photographs, and the commemoration of this passtime in European and Javanese family photograph albums, in the Netherlands Indies (colonial Indonesia) during the early twentieth... moreThis article examines the representation of tea drinking in photographs, and the commemorationof this passtime in European and Javanese family photograph albums, in the Netherlands Indies(colonial Indonesia) during the early twentieth century. As ego documents (autobiographicalsources), family photographs of tea-time reveal how the expression of social categories like race,class and gender were choreographed in the home by colonial family members for their ownviewing. As sources for social history, such photographs reflect not just on markers of socialdifferentiation, but also on familial cohesion and, importantly, on an emerging class solidaritybetween Javanese and Europeans that transcended racial distinctions. Worldliness, domesticityand a peculiar mode of civility that would in the European context have been considered middleclass, but in the Indies was considered elite, were the normative cultural standards by which thephotogenicity of the colonial family were measured in photographs of tea drinking. Tea cups andcameras were wielded by amateur family photographers to reproduce both the hierarchy andunity that simultaneously divided and connected sectors of elite colonial society in the earlytwentieth century.Save to LibraryDownloadby Susie Protschky•  7  Photography, Visual Culture, Colonialism, Food History"Old Soerabaja - New Soerabaja? Circulating the Emptiness of the Colonial City," in: PhotoResearcher 30 (2018), 48-62.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sophie Junge•  4  Colonialism, Histories of Photographies, Dutch colonial history in Indonesia, Colonial And Post Colonial CitiesDe huid van Cleopatra. Etniciteit en diversiteit in oudheidstudies. Zenobiareeks 9Hoe zag Cleopatra er nou echt uit? Wat was het immigratiebeleid van het Romeinse Rijk en wat voor gevolgen had het? Hoe keek Aristoteles tegen slavernij aan? Dit soort vragen houdt de gemoederen nog altijd bezig en illustreert hoezeer de... moreHoe zag Cleopatra er nou echt uit? Wat was het immigratiebeleid van het Romeinse Rijk en wat voor gevolgen had het? Hoe keek Aristoteles tegen slavernij aan? Dit soort vragen houdt de gemoederen nog altijd bezig en illustreert hoezeer de moderne mens zich aan de (met name Griekse en Romeinse) Oudheid spiegelt of zich er juist tegen afzet. De wijze waarop er nu in Nederland over diversiteit en etniciteit wordt gesproken, verschilt scherp van de concepten die in het oude Egypte, Perzië of Griekenland werden gehanteerd. Maar ook in de Oudheid werden huidskleur en andere etnische kenmerken natuurlijk opgemerkt en becommentarieerd, in positieve en negatieve zin. De auteurs van De huid van Cleopatra onderzoeken drie verschillende maar onderling verweven vragen rondom de Oudheid, hier breed opgevat, en etniciteit. Hoe werd er in de Oudheid tegen huidskleur en etnische kenmerken aangekeken? En, hoe hebben door de eeuwen heen de bestudering van de (‘Klassieke’) Oudheid en eurocentrische ideologie en politiek elkaar wederzijds beïnvloed? Tot slot, hoe kunnen oudheidstudies, zowel wat betreft beschikbare kennis als het vak­ gebied, anno nu breder toegankelijk worden gemaakt? Hier verkrijgbaar: https://verloren.nl/Webshop/Detail/catid/196/eid/49903/de-huid-van-cleopatraSave to LibraryDownloadby Inger Neeltje Irene Kuin and +1Emma Huig•  12  Classical Archaeology, Classics, Roman History, Race and Ethnicity'Operatie Kraai en de Actie Tijger. De Tweede Politionele Actie in en rond Balige, Sumatra. 1948-1949' in: Mars et Historia, jrg. 50, nr. 3 (2016) p. 16-25Save to LibraryDownloadby Wouter van Dijk•  5  History, Modern History, Dutch colonial history in Indonesia, History of ColonialismNextLast »Related TopicsHistory and PoliticsFollowFollowingDutch overseas historyFollowFollowingIndonesian Visual ArtFollowFollowingIndonesian HistoryFollowFollowingColonial HistoryFollowFollowingIndonesian StudiesFollowFollowingDutch East India CompanyFollowFollowingBahasa JawaFollowFollowingIndonesian MilitaryFollowFollowingArchaeology of NepalFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023