10 captures
22 Feb 2014 - 10 Oct 2017
Jan
FEB
May
22
2013
2014
2015
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20140222231636/http://mygov.malaysia.gov.my/EN/Main/MsianGov/StateGovAndFederalTerritories/Pages/StateGovAndFederalTerritories.aspx
Federal Territories and State Governments
 
Search
                              
                            
Malaysian Government
Machinery
Directory
Policy
Tenders
Events
Social Media
Contact Us
Help
English
Bahasa Malaysia
Other Language
Public Opinion
 Survey Feedback & Enquiry Public Complaints (PCB) Polling Centre Public Enquiry Reports - MCMC Public Enquiry Reports - SUHAKAM
Quick Links
 Public Holiday Libraries Weather eSolat Statistic PDRM Directory myGovernment CIO Green Technology Techno Innovation Public Broadband Social Welfare LLM Traffic Chief Secretary of Malaysia (KSN)
Multimedia Links
 Media Photo Gallery Video Audio Publication Download Powerpoint Slides
Federal Territories and State Governments
Malaysia consists of 13 states, namely Johor, Kedah, Kelantan, Malacca, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Penang, Sabah, Sarawak, Selangor and Terengganu.
Apart from the 13 states, there are three Federal Territories, which are administered under the authorities of the Ministry of Federal Territories. Currently, there are three Federal Territories in Malaysia. They are Kuala Lumpur, Putrajaya and Labuan. 
The Federal Territories have equivalent status to other states in Malaysia but do not have a head of state or a state assembly.
As at the Federal level, there is a corresponding separation of governing powers at the State level – among the Executive, Judicial and Legislative Authorities – in line with the concept of federalism. 
Click here for more information on the State Governments in Malaysia.
Federal and States.html
Useful Links
 Prime Minister's Office Public Service Department Public Complaints Bureau Parliament of Malaysia Malaysian Administrative Modernisation and Management Planning Unit Prime Minister’s Department
Relevant Topics
 Doing a Business Education and Learning Employment and Training Health Industry in Malaysia Money, Tax and Investment Security and Safety Society and Life Tour and Travel Transport System
Services
 myServices myForms myBayar myNews MyJobs myGovXchange
Promotion
Terms and Conditions 
 Privacy Policy 
 Security Policy 
 Copyright Notice 
 FAQ 
 Contact Us 
 About Us 
 Client Charter
                    DISCLAIMER: The Government shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused by the usage of any information obtained from this web site. Best Viewed with resolution of 1024 x 768 (or higher) and supports Internet Explorer 7.0+ .
                    