Berges Institute | Online Live Spanish Classes
Class Schedule
            Online Placement Test
        
Online Spanish Classes
Private Spanish Lessons
Corporate Spanish Classes
 "The bright spot of my week!"
 "Highly recommended"
 "Practical and comprehensive"
 
Online Live Spanish Classes
Learn Spanish online with Berges Institute, the fastest-growing Spanish language school
                    for adults in the US, Europe, and India.
Unlimited, grammar-intensive live classes
FREE for the first 15 days
/month
                        after that
Cancel any time with two clicks
Browse Classes
Trustpilot
How it works
                        1. Find a class that works for you and enroll. You can book more classes now or later.
                    
                        2. Follow the instructions to join the video conference room on the day of your class.
                    
Berges in the press
 
 
"I think the Graf Method is really very logical. It's almost like developmental milestones, things progress in a logical manner. Almost the same as crawling before walking. I have now completed Levels 2 - 5 and I am looking forward to doing Basic Conversation. I would definitely recommend this School to anyone who wants to improve or learn Spanish from scratch."
Averil Weir, NYC
 
"The Graf Method for learning Spanish is excellent. I was very pleased with how the lessons were presented, the material and the way the classes moved quickly where necessary. I also was very please with a private lesson I had that covered 3 lessons I had missed. The instructor, Rolando González, moved me through the material easily and quickly. I highly recommend the Method and form of instruction."
Dr. Louise Menlo, NYC
 
"I am very happy that I took this class, it totally met my expectations. The book and the method are great, everything is organized, and I appreciate the reminder emails for schedule and homework. It is very good to have the option to make up for a class on another day if one cannot attend the regular class. Víctor S. at the front desk is super helpful."
Bettina Klein-Nau, NYC
Facts and stats
1,200+
unique students per month
32,000+
total students, since 2013
23,000+
Spanish classes taught
13,000+
Spanish private lessons taught
8
students per class, on average
20,000+
newsletter subscribers
The Graf Method
Most modern second language (L2) learning methods are inductive: students perform tasks using the target language and eventually pick up patterns. The grammar-translation method, which was used in Europe from the 1840s to the 1940s for foreign and classical language training (Richards & Rodgers, 2001, p. 6), is deductive: students learn rules and then practice them by translating from and to the target language. It often lacks speaking practice.
The Graf Method (Graf derives from the term "gramática functional") is a modified grammar-translation L2 teaching approach in which speaking practice is emphasized.
While inductive methods mimic the natural language acquisition process children go through when learning their first language (L1), research shows deductive L2 instruction works better in adults (Gör et al., 2009). The Graf Method solves the limitations of the traditional grammar-translation method by complementing translation tasks with conversational practice.
References:
Richards, J. C., & Rodgers, T. S. (2001). Approaches and methods in language teaching. Cambridge University Press.
Gör, Ö., Kolat, T., İstanbul, A., Üniversitesi, A., Meslek, Y., Okulu, B., & İnönü. (2009).
                                Deductive vs. inductive approach on English grammar teaching for elementary students
 
 
FAQ
                        How many students are in each class?
                    
                        Between 4 and 10, usually.
                    
                        What age are the students, on average?
                    
                        Most students at Berges are between 25 and 70 years old, although we have many students who are younger or older than that.
                    
                        Do you speak only in Spanish during classes?
                    
                        Nope, we speak mostly in English in Levels 1 and 2, and then progressively add more and more Spanish. Conversation classes are 100% in Spanish.
                    
                        Do you use Zoom for the classes?
                    
                        We use BlueJeans, which is similar to Zoom. You can either download the app or join the classes directly in the browser.
                    
Online Spanish language tutors
                            Spanish language tutors for adults
                        
| 
                            Tutors for conversational Spanish classes
                        
| 
                            Tutors for DELE preparation
                        
| 
                            Tutors for Spanish language accent reduction
                        
| 
                            Native Spanish language tutors
                        
Learn Spanish in your city
                            Spanish classes in New York City
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Chicago
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Los Angeles
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in San Francisco
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Miami
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Boston
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Toronto
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Vancouver
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in London
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Dublin
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Mumbai
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in New Delhi
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Dubai
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Melbourne
                        
| 
                            Spanish classes in Sydney
                        
Company
The Berges Story
Instructors & Staff
Jobs
Services
Online Spanish Classes
Private Spanish Lessons
Corporate Spanish Classes
Deep Spanish (Practice Chatbots)
Spanish Verb Conjugations
Video Lessons
Resources
The Graf Method
Holiday Schedule
Spanish Stuff
Podcasts
Oral Assessment
Papers
Online Placement Test
Spanish-Speaking Countries
Native Spanish speakers worldwide in 2023: an estimate
Stuff
Merch
Books
Gift Cards
Buy Series for Private Lessons
In the Press
Convos with Chatbots
Support
Contact Us
Social
YouTube
LinkedIn
Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
Mailing Address
New York Office: Berges Institute LLC, 260 Madison Avenue, 8th Fl, New York, NY 10016, USA
Chicago Office: Berges Institute LLC, 125 S Wacker Dr. Suite 300, Chicago, IL 60606, USA
Dublin Office: Berges Institute LLC, 77 Sir John Rogerson's Quay, Dublin Docklands, Dublin, D02 VK60, Ireland
Bangalore Office: Berges Institute LLC, 26/1 Brigade Gateway, Dr Rajkumar Rd, Bangalore, Karnataka 560055, India 
Spanish Classes Near You
Spanish classes in New York
Spanish classes in California
Spanish classes in Illinois
Spanish classes in Texas
Spanish classes in Florida
Spanish classes in Massachusetts
Spanish classes in New Jersey
Spanish classes in British Columbia
Spanish classes in Quebec
Spanish classes in England
Spanish classes in Scotland
Spanish classes in Ireland
Spanish classes in Maharashtra
Spanish classes in Delhi
Spanish classes in Victoria
Spanish classes in New South Wales
                Spanish classes in other states and countries
© 2023, Berges Institute LLC, 260 Madison Avenue, 8th Fl. New York, NY 10016
Privacy Policy
                | Your Privacy Choices
                | Terms and Conditions
                | School Policies
Close
Promo
                3-Month Subscriptions: 
.
                Use promo code:
            
Copy
                Gift Cards for 3-Month Subscriptions: 
.
                Visit our gift card store.
            
For someone else, or for yourself! Can be applied to an active subscription.
▼
▲