Employment Policy Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Employment Policy713 FollowersRecent papers in Employment PolicyTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeople Maternity Leave Duration and Postpartum Mental and Physical Health: Implications for Leave PoliciesThis study examines the association of leave duration with depressive symptoms, mental health, physical health, and maternal symptoms in the first postpartum year, using a prospective cohort design. Eligible employed women, eighteen years... moreThis study examines the association of leave duration with depressive symptoms, mental health, physical health, and maternal symptoms in the first postpartum year, using a prospective cohort design. Eligible employed women, eighteen years or older, were interviewed in person at three Minnesota hospitals while hospitalized for childbirth in 2001. Telephone interviews were conducted at six weeks (N=716), twelve weeks (N=661), six months (N=625), and twelve months (N=575) after delivery. Depressive symptoms (Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale), mental and physical health (SF-12 Health Survey), and maternal childbirth-related symptoms were measured at each time period. Two-stage least squares analysis showed that the relationship between leave duration and postpartum depressive symptoms is U-shaped, with a minimum at six months. In the first postpartum year, an increase in leave duration is associated with a decrease in depressive symptoms until six months postpartum. Moreover, ordinary least squares analysis showed a marginally significant linear positive association between leave duration and physical health. Taking leave from work provides time for mothers to rest and recover from pregnancy and childbirth. Findings indicate that the current leave duration provided by the Family and Medical Leave Act, twelve weeks, may not be sufficient for mothers at risk for or experiencing postpartum depression.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rada K Dagher•  4  Maternal Health, Postpartum Depression, Parental Leave, Employment PolicyYouth Guarantee Four Years AfterWhen youth unemployment peaked in the EU in 2013, we counted about 5.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. For many years since the eruption of the global financial crisis, one in five young Europeans looking for a job could not find... moreWhen youth unemployment peaked in the EU in 2013, we counted about 5.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. For many years since the eruption of the global financial crisis, one in five young Europeans looking for a job could not find any. Many young people experienced long-term unemployment, and the number of 15-29 year olds neither in employment, education or training (NEETs) was nearly 14 million for several years. Since then, a mild and uneven economic recovery has helped to reduce youth unemployment in the EU by about 1.5 million, to around 4 million. But even if it had been “just” 4 million at the peak, it would have been enough for demanding an EU-level initiative.  This paper looks back to the creation of the Youth Guarantee, highlighting some key aspects of the debates at the time the initiative was developed, and address some common concerns and misconceptions around it. This reflection should help those who work on the implementation of the Youth Guarantee across the EU, as well as participants of related discussions and students of the European Employment Strategy.Save to LibraryDownloadby László Andor and +1László ANDOR•  3  European Union, Employment Policy, Evaluation of Public PolicyTÜRKİYE'DE EĞİTİM POLİTİKALARISave to LibraryDownloadby Ünal Akyüz and +4Ârife Gümüş SarıMehmet Hakkı SuçinIpek CoskunZafer Çelik•  21  Demography, Globalization, History of Education, Education PolicyEmployment Diagnostic: Somalia prepared in connection with the National Employment PolicySave to LibraryDownloadby Aditya Sarkar and +1Nicolas Serrière•  4  Somalia, Employment, Employment Policy, the International Labour Organization (ILO)Single parenthood and the decline of marriage: the role of the economic relationship between women and menThis is a written version of a talk which I gave at the Scottish Family Party Annual conference in 2020. I explore how men and women have different relationships to patterns of employment and unemployment and the structuring of taxes and... moreThis is a written version of a talk which I gave at the Scottish Family Party Annual conference in 2020. I explore how men and women have different relationships to  patterns of employment and unemployment and the structuring of taxes and benefits. The way in which patterns of employment and unemployment and access to benefits are shaped by gender has a direct impact on patterns of family formation. I conclude with some proposals about how the family can be strengthened.Save to LibraryDownloadby Belinda Brown•  20  Men's Studies, Women's Studies, Family, Gender EqualityJ. Doomen, On the Labor Front: the Problem of the Fictitious EmployeeSave to LibraryDownloadby Jasper Doomen•  114  Collective Bargaining (Industrial And Labor Relations), Law, Civil Law, Labor Law (Law)Enabling State Theory and Selective Targeting: The implication of Behaviour for social welfare benefits to enable Transition to WorkThis paper analyses the implication of behaviour in realm of selective targeting under enabling state to understand young third country immigrants' employment-related transition from welfare to work in Austria, Finland and Czech Republic.... moreThis paper analyses the implication of behaviour in realm of selective targeting under enabling state to understand young third country immigrants' employment-related transition from welfare to work in Austria, Finland and Czech Republic. Existing research pointed the economic meltdown that began in the 2008 destroyed the economic security and job prospect of many millions that has put policy makers under intense budgetary pressure and fiscal burden to selective target social benefits in industrialized and transitional countries of the former socialist block. Selective targeting emphasizes a mode of operation that defines a pattern of policy approach assuming that welfare expenditure on the basis of individual need and reductive categorization of eligibility reduce "leakages" in social assistance programs, ease the burgeoning difficulties, and activate job seekers. Yet, selective targeting embodies huge administrative tab associated with transaction cost of conducting means test and monitoring eligibility, involves taking benefits away from the people, and also raise the threshold of eligibility. Although there seem to exist some common understanding that the main tool to solve fiscal burden and budgetary deficit is to increase policymakers' mode to targeting benefits, there have not been enough studies in CEE countries, Western European Countries and Nordic countries explaining the implication of behaviour in realm of selective targeting under enabling state to understand young third country immigrants' employment-related transition from welfare to work in Austria, Finland and Czech Republic. Based on a qualitative cross-country case-oriented research approach with fewer country comparisons, documents, observation, and scholarly text are collected and analyse with document and content analysis techniques to fill in this gap. The findings show contractual tasks, obligations, and sanction regulative tool, is a major perceived influence in enabling state selective targeting administration governance which raises access to benefits threshold that may impair equity and efficiency in targeting benefits when looking at issues such as employment-related transition of young third country immigrants and socioeconomically minority groups in selective targeting setting. The study demonstrates certain means-tested pro-poor administrative governance similarities, but dissimilarities from the countries institutional approach. This is relevant to sustainable public finance in contemporary fluid society with scarce resources that may not only impair minority, but create stigma, jeopardize belongings and the economy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Prof. Dr Eddy Bruno Esien, PhD•  20  Organizational Behavior, Regulatory Governance, Corporate Governance, NeoliberalismTürkiye'de İstihdam Politikalarının Yoksulluğa EtkisiKendine içkin çelişkileri dolayısıyla genişleme ve daralma dönemlerinin birbirini izlediği kapitalist sistemde, birikim modeli, düzenleme tarzı ve bölüşüm mekanizması belirli aralıklarla kökten değişir. 1973 yılındaki petrol krizi... moreKendine içkin çelişkileri dolayısıyla genişleme ve daralma dönemlerininbirbirini izlediği kapitalist sistemde, birikim modeli, düzenleme tarzı vebölüşüm mekanizması belirli aralıklarla kökten değişir. 1973 yılındaki petrol krizi sonrasında da sistemin işleyişi sürdürülememiş; bu mekanizmalar dönüşmüştür. Dönüşüm, en çok emekçilerin çalışma ve yaşam koşullarını etkilemiştir. Buna rağmen neo-liberal ideoloji, bu süreçte istihdamı sosyal politika bağlamından kopararak, ayrı bir düzlemde ele alma gayretindedir. Oysaki istihdam, sadece yeni işler yaratılmasının ötesinde ekonomik, sosyal ve siyasal alanların tamamını etkileyen bir bütündür. İstihdam politikası, düzgün işlerin ortaya çıkışını teşvik etmekle birlikte; çalışmaya ilişkin temel hakların sağlanması, sosyal korumanın genişletilmesi ve uluslararası çalışma standartlarının gözetilmesi gibi niteliksel hedefleri de bulunan bir müdahale aracıdır. Bu araç, bir yandan ulusal gelirin artışını olumlu etkilerken; öte yandan herkes için tam, verimli ve insan onuruna yaraşır istihdam olanakları sağlayarak başta yoksulluk olmak üzere eğitim, sağlık ve güvenlikle ilgili sorunların çözümüne de katkı sunar. Ancak Türkiye’de sermaye sınıfının yörüngesinde şekillenen Ulusal İstihdam Stratejisi aracılığıyla yürütülen istihdam politikası, sosyal diyalogdan yoksun bir içeriğe sahiptir. Bu haliyle istihdam politikası, işsiz kesimlerin istihdam edilebilirliklerini arttırıp işsizliği azaltmak yerine, daha çok bu kesimi işgücü piyasasının değişen koşullarına uyum gösterecek bir kalıba sokarak işletmelerin esneklik gereksinimlerini karşılayan bir işlev görmektedir. Devletin sorumluluktan sıyrıldığı bu yapıda işsizlik ve dolayısıyla yoksulluk bireysel bir süreç olarak değerlendirilir.Tüm bunlardan hareketle, çalışmada istihdam politikaları ve yoksullukkavramları incelenmiş; Türkiye’deki istihdam politikalarının temelözelliklerine, aktif ve pasif istihdam politikaları ayrımında yer verilmiş; son olarak da Türkiye’deki istihdam politikalarının yoksulluğa etkisi istihdam, gelir dağılımı ve sosyal koruma bağlamında açıklanarak, sonuca ulaşılmıştır.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pınar Soysal•  6  Social Policy, Poverty, Unemployment, Employment PolicyArbeit und Beschäftigung von arbeitsmarktfernen Menschen mit Behinderungen in OberösterreichIn einer anwendungsorientierten und auf Oberösterreich bezogenen Studie wurden in vergleichen-der Perspektive die arbeitsintegrativen Aspekte der Leistungen des Oberösterreichischen Chancen-gleichheitsgesetzes »Berufliche Qualifizierung«,... moreIn einer anwendungsorientierten und auf Oberösterreich bezogenen Studie wurden in vergleichen-der Perspektive die arbeitsintegrativen Aspekte der Leistungen des Oberösterreichischen Chancen-gleichheitsgesetzes »Berufliche Qualifizierung«, »Fähigkeitsorientierte Aktivität« und »Geschützte Arbeit« untersucht. Der Artikel bezieht sich darauf, ob die normativen Anforderungen von Ar-tikel 27 der UN-Behindertenrechtskonvention bei der Umsetzung der Leistungen erfüllt werden. Die Analyse der Sonderbeschäftigungsverhältnisse zeigt, dass Berufliche Qualifizierung, und ein-geschränkt auch Geschützte Arbeit, den Vorgaben entsprechen. Bei Geschützter Arbeit und Fähig-keitsorientierter Aktivität gibt es kaum Durchlässigkeit, hinzu kommen mangelnder Sozialversiche-rungsschutz und unzureichende Bezahlung. Der Verdacht von Lohn-und Sozialdumping steht im Raum. Die Sozialverwaltung lässt mit ihren begrenzten Budgetmitteln den Trägerorganisationen kaum Spielraum, dennoch können innovative Praktiken identifiziert werden.Save to LibraryDownloadby Angela  Wegscheider and +1Melanie Schaur•  3  Social Policy, Disability policy (Social Policy), Employment Policy(2011) Systèmes d'information sur le marché de l'emploi et information sur la migration du travail dans six pays en développement: le défi de l'intégration. Une étude comparative sur Colombie, Costa Rica, Ghana, Nicaragua, Sénégal et TunisieLa présente étude comparative tente de donner une image globale de l'état du des systèmes d’information sur le marché de l’emploi (SIME) et de vérifier si et comment ils intègrent l’information sur la migration du travail en Afrique de... moreLa présente étude comparative tente de donner une image globale de l'état du des systèmes d’information sur le marché de l’emploi (SIME) et de vérifier si et comment ils intègrent l’information sur la migration du travail en Afrique de l’Ouest, au Maghreb et en Amérique Latine. A cet effet, six pays ont été sélectionnés, pourvus de profils d'emploi et migratoires divers : la Colombie, le Costa Rica, le Ghana, le Nicaragua, le Sénégal et la Tunisie. Malgré leurs fortes différences, tous ont en partage le phénomène des migrations internationales comme caractéristique structurelle de leurs systèmes économiques et sociaux ainsi que le défi de la création d'emplois comme dimension décisive de leurs politiques publiques. L’analyse détaillée des SIME et de la collecte d’informations sur la migration du travail, des procédures de traitement et de diffusion qui a été effectuée à travers six études de pays et six missions d'une semaine dans ces pays, a fait apparaître de fortes similarités en termes de défis, de schémas et de problèmes à cet égard dans chacun de ces pays et, par extension, dans la plupart des pays en développement. La principale conclusion est que l’élaboration de SIME efficaces, globaux et intégrés eu égard aux informations sur la migration du travail est une condition préalable à l'efficacité des politiques d'emploi et de migration ainsi qu'à la mise en œuvre d'accords bilatéraux de migration de travail.Save to LibraryDownloadby Iván Martín•  2  Labour market policy, Employment PolicyLABOUR MARKET AND EMPLOYMENT POLICIES IN PALESTINESave to LibraryDownloadby Habib Hinn•  16  Labor Economics, Israel/Palestine, Palestine, TrainingIn Arbeit kommen und bleiben. Geschützte Arbeit und Unterstützte Beschäftigung in vergleichender Perspektive (2016)Internationale Einflüsse fördern das Ziel, für Menschen mit Behinderungen bzw. Beeinträchtigungen durch spezielle Unterstützungsangebote einen inklusiven Arbeitsmarkt anzubieten. Die Studie stellt in vergleichender Perspektive die... moreInternationale Einflüsse fördern das Ziel, für Menschen mit Behinderungen bzw. Beeinträchtigungen durch spezielle Unterstützungsangebote einen inklusiven Arbeitsmarkt anzubieten. Die Studie stellt in vergleichender Perspektive die sozialpolitische Einbettung aktiver Beschäftigungspolitik für Menschen mit Behinderungen sowie Unterstützungsmodelle in Deutschland, Großbritannien, den Niederlanden und Schweden vor. Als Referenz dienten die Modelle „Geschützte Arbeit“ nach dem Oberösterreichischen Chancengleichheitsgesetz (2008) und Unterstützte Beschäftigung (Supported Employment) nach der European Union of Supported Employment (EUSE). Verwendete Methoden waren die vergleichende Literaturanalyse und Interviews mit Stakeholdern (Programmverantwortliche, Betroffene, VertreterInnen aus Wissenschaft und sozialer Verwaltung).Die Analyse brachte unterschiedliche Strategien zur Sicherung und Förderung der Erwerbstätigkeit zutage. Großbritannien führte mit der alleinigen Fokussierung auf den ersten Arbeitsmarkt die radikalsten Reformen durch. Es schloss die staatlichen Beschäftigungsbetriebe ohne für die gekündigten MitarbeiterInnen mit Behinderungen Auffangprogramme zu entwickeln. Die Niederlande haben, obwohl es seit 2014 einen Aufnahmestopp gibt, noch immer die höchsten Beschäftigungszahlen im Geschützten Bereich. Sie setzten nun auf die Unterstützung durch Job Coaches. Schweden, Deutschland und Österreich zeichnen sich aus durch differenzierte Förderprogramme und langsame Reformen, welche die Erlangung von sozialversicherungsrechtlich abgesicherten Arbeitsverhältnissen zum Ziel haben. Als wesentliche Begleitphänomene aktueller Reformen observierten wir die Fokussierung auf den ersten Arbeitsmarkt „um jeden Preis“, Sparpolitik, Wettbewerb und Ökonomisierung der Leistungen. Dies fördert das Abschöpfen der „Arbeitsmarkt-Fitteren“ (Creaming) sowie den Verbleib der „Unterstützungs-Intensiven“ in Arbeitslosigkeit oder Tagesstrukturen (Parking). Einige Träger erhöhen durch Differenzierung des Leistungsspektrums die Wahlfreiheit der Zielgruppe. Außerdem bricht der geschützte Bereich nach „draußen“ auf: Träger der Geschützten Arbeit verbinden Beschäftigung in eigenen Betriebsstätten und Arbeitskräfteüberlassungen zunehmend mit Supported Employment-Maßnahmen am ersten Arbeitsmarkt.Save to LibraryDownloadby Angela Wegscheider•  4  Social Policy, Disability policy, Comparative Study, Employment PolicyChapter 1 - The legacy of the crisis: resilience and challengesSave to LibraryDownloadby Laurent Aujean and +1Filip Tanay•  32  Demography, European Studies, Economics, Development EconomicsEmployment policies for social inclusion: the case of Roma and Refugees in BulgariaThe economic and innovation potential of economically and socially disadvantaged Roma and Refugees in Bulgaria is not being used sufficiently. This research examines how employment and entrepreneurial policies can affect social, political... moreThe economic and innovation potential of economically and socially disadvantaged Roma and Refugees in Bulgaria is not being used sufficiently. This research examines how employment and entrepreneurial policies can affect social, political and economic inclusion in the case of these two communities in Bulgaria. In this dissertation, I argue that these Roma and Refugee face very similar entry barriers to employment and self-employment by comparing the groups via an academically intersectional approach on policy, social and economic level. Consequently, the question How must employment and entrepreneurship policies in Bulgaria be designed to address employment integration needs of Roma and Refugees in Bulgaria? To explore that question, the dissertation proves the connection between employment barriers and needs of Refugees and Roma people in Bulgaria as well as collects qualitative primary research of employment and self-employment examples of Roma and Refugees. In addition, a map of the integration and self-employment politics of the country is made to generate recommendations for employment and self-employment policies targeting disadvantaged Roma and Refugees in the country. Methodologically, the dissertation relies on qualitative research, using a combination of policy analysis, literature review, participant observation, a survey and in-depth interviews. The research resulted in the realization that both groups, though socially, historically and politically very different, do share many employment barriers and opportunities in common. The analysis of existing policy tools determined that a big part of these barriers and opportunities are not being sufficiently addressed.The Bulgarian system is especially resistant to interdimensional integration approaches and the empowerment of marginalized groups. Most pertinent problem with employment and integration policies is the implementation. However, civil society does provide scalable and promising practices that can either be supported or adopted into national and regional measures. This finding is weight against existing and planned policies in Bulgaria and discusses how to unlock potentials for policy making within employment, social economy support and integration strategies in Bulgaria.Save to LibraryDownloadby Stana Iliev•  5  Refugees, Integration, Employment Policy, Roma PeopleAvrupa Birliği İstihdam Politikası Genel EsaslarıAvrupa Kömür Çelik Topluluğu ile temelleri atılan AB'nin kuruluş yıllarında sosyal politikaların Atlaşmalarda yer alması tartışılmıştır. Bu gün ise, bu tartışma yerini istihdam politikasının Birlik düzeyinde ele alınıp alınmayacağına... moreAvrupa Kömür Çelik Topluluğu ile temelleri atılan AB'nin kuruluş yıllarında sosyal politikaların Atlaşmalarda yer alması tartışılmıştır. Bu gün ise, bu tartışma yerini istihdam politikasının Birlik düzeyinde ele alınıp alınmayacağına bırakmıştır. Bu çalışma ulaşılan bu noktanın açıklanmasına yöneliktir.Birinci bölümde Avrupa Birliği'nin kurumları ve Avrupa Birliği hukuku hakkında bilgi verilmiştir. İkinci bölümde istihdam politikası ve ilgili kavramların tanımı yapılmış, AB'de sosyal politikadan istihdam politikasına dönüşümün tarihi incelenmiştir. Üçüncü bölümde kurucu antlaşmada yer alan düzenlemeler, istihdam politikasının genel özellikleri ele alınmıştır. Dördüncü ve son bölümde Avrupa İstihdam stratejisi ele alınmış ve tam üyelik sürecinde Türkiye'nin Avrupa İstihdam politikasına uyumu konusuna değinilmiştir.Save to LibraryDownloadby akay tekin•  3  European Union, Employment, Employment PolicyDevelopment of the system of lifelong guidance in Hungary, Phase I 2008-2011Hungary is actually ahead of most EU Member States as far as the venture to deploy a branch- and sector-neutral national guidance systems based on a standardised national methodology and database is concerned. Since the second half of the... moreHungary is actually ahead of most EU Member States as far as the venture to deploy a branch- and sector-neutral national guidance systems based on a standardised national methodology and database is concerned. Since the secondhalf of the 1990s, the international policy community has been urging with growing emphasis for a universal revision of the narrow interpretation of the career orientation function to adjust it to the new social and labour market needs and the,parallel, changed role of “schools”. In the industrial societies, career guidance has been the privilege of a few. It was readily applied in two cases: for talented children and, the opposite, for pupils in need of catching up. Contemporary career guidancemeant (based mainly on its roots in French and German work and school psychology) skills and personality analysis, and it was often forgotten that an assessment drawn up without the involvement of the client, the user – however correct – has little chance to materialise in the absence of the individual’s identification with it.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tibor Bors Borbely-Pecze•  4  Career Guidance And Counseling, Public Policy Analysis, Career Development, Employment PolicyKOMPETENCIÁK MÉRLEGENA Felnőttképzés 2009/3 számában vitaindítónak szánt cikket közölt Csoma Gyula és Lada László a kompetencia fogalmának felnőttképzéshez való kapcsolódásáról. Már írásuk címében is jelzik, hogy nincs minden rendben a fogalomhasználattal. A... moreA Felnőttképzés 2009/3 számábanvitaindítónak szánt cikket közöltCsoma Gyula és Lada László a kompetenciafogalmának felnőttképzéshezvaló kapcsolódásáról. Már írásukcímében is jelzik, hogy nincsminden rendben a fogalomhasználattal.A kompetencia elnevezés immáronáltalánossá vált az oktatásügyminden szektorában, átitatta afoglalkoztatáspolitikát, sőt a szociálpolitikátis. Ugyanakkor való igaz,hogy a kompetencia fogalomhasználataközel sem egységes, még az oktatásügyegyes szektorain belül is eltérőekaz értelmezések. Ám ez nemjelenti azt, hogy a kompetencia fogalmátki kellene dobnunk!Save to LibraryDownloadby Tibor Bors Borbely-Pecze•  3  Career Guidance Counseling, Education Policy, Employment PolicyÖrneklerle İş Hukukunda Toplu İşçi Çıkarma ve Hükümleri | Collective Redundancy According to the Turkish Labour Law With Example CasesÖZ Türk iş hukukuna göre toplu işçi çıkarma ülkemiz iş hukukunda uygulama alanı bulmuş bir iş ilişkisidir. Yasaya göre işyerinde çalışan işçi sayısı, 20 ile 100 işçi arasında ise, en az 10 işçinin; 101 ile 300 işçi arasında ise, en az... moreÖZTürk iş hukukuna göre toplu işçi çıkarma ülkemiz iş hukukunda uygulama alanı bulmuş bir iş ilişkisidir. Yasaya göre işyerinde çalışan işçi sayısı, 20 ile 100 işçi arasında ise, en az 10 işçinin; 101 ile 300 işçi arasında ise, en az yüzde on oranında işçinin, 301 ve daha fazla ise, en az 30 işçinin işine süreli fesih yoluyla fesih bildirimi süreleri içerisinde yâda bir aylık süre içinde aynı tarihte veya farklı tarihlerde son verilmesi toplu işçi çıkarma sayılır. Toplu işçi çıkarma müessesesi keyfi olarak kullanılamaz, ekonomik, teknolojik, yapısal ve benzeri işletme, işyeri veya işin gereklerine dayanmalıdır. Kanun mevsimlik ve kampanya işleri toplu işçi çıkarma hükümlerinin dışında tutulmuştur. İş barışını tehdit edebilme niteliğinden dolayı özel düzenlemeye tabi tutulan toplu işçi çıkarma düzenlemesine başvurmak isteyen işveren, bu durumu en az otuz gün önceden bir yazı ile, işyeri sendika temsilcilerine ve ilgili Çalışma ve İş Kurumu İl Müdürlüğüne bildirmek zorundadır. Sendika temsilcileri ile yapılacak görüşmede toplu işçi çıkartmanın engellenmesi yada etkilerinin azaltılması amaçlanır. Yargıtay toplu işçi çıkartma prosedürüne aykırılığın fesih bildirimlerini geçersiz kılmayacağı görüşündedir. Öte yandan yüksek yargının, işten çıkarmanın işletme, işyeri ve işin gereklerinden kaynaklanan geçerli bir nedene bağlı olarak yapılması gerektiğine hükmettiği ve toplu işçi çıkarmanın son çare olması ilkesini benimsediği görülmektedir.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bünyamin ESEN•  52  Employment Law, Welfare State, Employment Relations, Social InsuranceBarbera  La  flexicurity come politica e come narrazione .docxSave to LibraryDownloadby Marzia Barbera•  3  Employment Policy, Flexicurity, European Employment StrategyWhite Nepotism: Interrogating Organizational Culture in its Relation to Systemic Racist Employment PracticesThis research project examines the covert and systemic forms of racism that limit the employment opportunities for racialized individuals in the Greater Toronto Area labour market. Through a situated analysis of racialized workers,... moreThis research project examines the covert and systemic forms of racism that limit the employment opportunities for racialized individuals in the Greater Toronto Area labour market. Through a situated analysis of racialized workers, institutional actors, and public policies, I examine the nuances of racialized individuals' encounters with discriminatory hiring practices and job promotion procedures that exist in the labour market. Through the perspectives of racialized workers' lived experiences, and by bringing into question the employment practices of hiring managers and human resource personnel, this project addresses the following key questions: 1) How do racialized workers negotiate their movement through places of employment in the Greater Toronto Area? 2) How might we understand the operation of racism in hiring practices and what are the mechanisms under which this occurs? 3) What are the implications of the existing policies related to discrimination and diversity in the workplace on the employment opportunities for racialized bodies? The significance of this research is threefold: First, by examining racialized individuals' access to employment, their challenges with respect to the validation of their credentials and qualifications, and their earnings gaps and mobility within the labour market, this study stands to inform public policy and further improve issues of inequity relating to places of employment within Canada. Second, my work will also help to sensitize hiring agents and human resources departments the need to eschew racism in their employment practices. Many individuals involved with the hiring and promoting of employees in their organizations may be unaware of covert forms of racism that exist within company policies and practices. Lastly, this research project will provide racialized individuals the opportunity to name and voice their concerns about racism and potential racial microaggressions they encounter in the labour market.Save to LibraryDownloadby Michael Fraschetti•  4  Race and Ethnicity, Labour Market, Employment Policy, Employment Equity and Workplace Discrimination"Second generation regulatory mechanism targeting discrimination at interview: post-interview feedback", completed as part of postgraduate studies in Public Policy, University of CambridgeIt is in the self-interest of employers to maximise compliance with equality legislation and reduce risk of legal liability. By regulation, it is sought to structure an employers’ processes to achieve equality aims. To this end, this... moreIt is in the self-interest of employers to maximise compliance with equality legislation and reduce risk of legal liability. By regulation, it is sought to structure an employers’ processes to achieve equality aims. To this end, this recommendation is properly characterised as a second generation regulatory mechanism which focuses on altering the internal workings of the regulated organisation. By establishing an information channel between the applicant and the employer, de-coupled from the hiring decision itself in individual instances, the employer can identify discriminatory practices at interview and self-scrutinize these practices for compliance with equality legislation. The employer is thereby engaged in a process of internalising equality prescriptions and becomes sensitized to the perspectives of persons with protected characteristics.Save to LibraryDownloadby Amy Dunne•  7  Employment Law, Discrimination, Equality Act 2010, Employment PolicyAustralian Social Media TrendsThe vast distances Australians must negotiate to connect their small, highly urbanized population both nationally and internationally have long created the incentive for invention, innovation and the early adoption of communication... moreThe vast distances Australians must negotiate to connect their small, highly urbanized population both nationally and internationally have long created the incentive for invention, innovation and the early adoption of communication technologies. Important also in any reflection in relation to Australia’s socio-technological evolution is this country’s location as a modern, developed, predominately western nation perched in the south- east of the Asian landmass. The Australian continent’s seven million square kilometers are geographically, and increasingly economically, politically and culturally, part of Asia. Forty percent of Australians were born overseas and almost one third of overseas-born Australians were born in Asia (Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2013). At the end of 2012, Australia’s population was approaching 23 million with about half that number—12.2 million—Internet subscribers. Broadband subscribers accounted for 98% of subscriptions; the split between private and public (business or government) use was 76% and 24% respectively. After exploring some of the central characteristics and tensions of the social media landscape in Australia, the authors illustrate issues and trends in social media usage in Australia and conclude with a discussion of salient policy issues, including challenges around the evolution of digital infrastructure, media law and copyright.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sean  Rintel•  13  Journalism, Internet Studies, Australia, CopyrightCreating markets out of nothing: the case of the continuing education system in GreeceThe development of the vocational training policy constitutes one of the most interesting examples of a policy which was introduced entirely due to the pressure exercised by the EU, but it was implemented in such a way that it served the... moreThe development of the vocational training policy constitutes one of the most interesting examples of a policy which was introduced entirely due to the pressure exercised by the EU, but it was implemented in such a way that it served the domestic political economy. The seven laws and the dozens of ministerial decrees issued from 1989-2004 reflect the effort made by the state to foster but also control the development of the market, the conflict of interests among the main players –namely those of the state, the private training centers and the social partners– but also the tensions generated by the pressures of the EU. It will be argued that the development of the continuing education market in Greece can be described and analyzed on the basis of three distinct time periods: (a) The period of initial capital accumulation (1989-1994), (b) the period of the controlled clearing of the market (1994-2004) and, (c) the period of the liberalization of the market (2005-). In every stage the interests of the main actors were accommodated accordingly, but this was achieved at the expense of the continuing training system’s efficiency. The aim of the paper is to critically assess these developments by focusing on the latent rationality underlying the state’s regulatory actions, as well as on the political economy which these actions have engendered.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yiorgos  Ioannidis•  5  Political Economy, Employment, Greece, Vocational Training(2011) Labour Market Information Systems and Labour Migration Information in Six Developing Countries. The Challenge of Integration. A Comparative Study of Colombia, Costa Rica, Ghana, Nicaragua, Senegal and Tunisia Save to LibraryDownloadby Iván Martín•  2  Labour market policy, Employment PolicyJean-Marie Pillon, "Performance Targets as Negotiation Devices - Management Accounting in French Job Centres (Pole Emploi)" in Sowa F., Staples R., Zapfel S.,  The Transformation of Work in Welfare State Organizations - New Public Management and the Institutional Diffusion of Ideas, Routledge,  2018This chapter sheds light on the contemporary regime of bureaucracies through a study of unemployment policies in France. I wonder how management accountants rationalize and frame counsellors’ work to solve the so-called effectiveness... moreThis chapter sheds light on the contemporary regime of bureaucracies through a study of unemployment policies in France. I wonder how management accountants rationalize and frame counsellors’ work to solve the so-called effectiveness problem of the state in reducing mass unemployment. This inquiry derives from ethnographic field works addressing the contemporary transformations of the state. According to such a literature, New Public Management actualizes the long-lasting dynamics of rationalization in public bureaucracies – revealed by M. Weber. Public organizations embraced an evidence-based steering and an objective measurement of their performances. The idea that New Public Management consists in a top-down imposition of new managerial tools downplays the political underpinning of management: when you optimize a ratio, you first have to state what you consider as a benefit or as a cost. Therefore, management tools are social procedures conveying political outlooks. This chapter will contribute to contemporary studies upon rationalisation in welfare state organizations by examining the relations between three groups of employees in the French Jobcentres: job counsellors, managers and management accountants. I will first analyse how management accountants need qualitative information to do their official task: an objective analysis of figures and curves. I’ll then point out to what extent management accounting can be seen as a political practice. I’ll finally expose how job counsellors react to this frame in order to shield their work from a complete external framing. This chapter will assert that each occupational group uses figures in its own way to boost its legitimacy – i.e. its ability to coin administrative problems. Measurement of work performance in an administration therefore opens a controversy where what is at stake is what work is worth.Save to LibraryDownloadby jean-marie pillon•  20  Sociology, Socioeconomics, Public Administration, Organizational ChangeThe European Employment Strategy: from ends to meansSave to LibraryDownloadby Gilles Raveaud•  3  European Union, European Social Model, Employment PolicyAsking about reasonable accommodation in EnglandABSTRACT Interviews conducted with leading actors in England asking a range of questions about religious diversity and the legal framework and, in particular, about reasonable accommodation, helped identify a number of areas of concern.... moreABSTRACT Interviews conducted with leading actors in England asking a range of questions about religious diversity and the legal framework and, in particular, about reasonable accommodation, helped identify a number of areas of concern. There was some doubt about whether specific legal provision should be brought in to guarantee reasonable accommodation. However, there was broad support for having the principle adopted in the practice of employers, whereas some preferred the current informality rather than the principle being enforced through litigation. None of the respondents came up with illustrations outside Judaism, Christianity or Islam. The results are consistent with recent critical studies showing that the assumption in social sciences that religion is a universal has been imported from theology. Religion-based questions only pick out certain phenomena specific to some cultures and an inevitable skew is created when asking such questions because they make sense only within an Abrahamic religious framework. Although enabling the identification of some aspects of culture considered to merit reasonable accommodation on the grounds of religion, the results also pose questions about the adequacy of current standard research methodologies which assume that religion is a universal.Save to Libraryby Prakash  Shah•  20  Christianity, Comparative Religion, Comparative Law, AnthropologyPerspectivas de la economía informal en México.La informalidad sigue siendo uno de los mayores problemas que enfrentan las economías alrededor del mundo; no sólo por sus implicaciones negativas en las finanzas públicas, sino más aún, por sus consecuencias atroces en el bienestar de la... moreLa informalidad sigue siendo uno de los mayores problemas que enfrentan las economías alrededor del mundo; no sólo por sus implicaciones negativas en las finanzas públicas, sino más aún, por sus consecuencias atroces en el bienestar de la clase trabajadora y sus familias. Se trata pues de la “precarización del empleo”, fenómeno que margina a los trabajadores, los aleja de la seguridad social y los esclaviza con salarios miserables que los conduce a la pobreza.El objetivo de este trabajo es analizar la dinámica de la informalidad en México, brindando datos actualizados que describen el fenómeno y ampliando el panorama de las implicaciones económicas y sociales que éste conlleva. Destacamos la actuación del Estado ante este problema inminente y se plantean una serie de propuestas encauzadas a mitigar sus efectos.Save to LibraryDownloadby Octavio Rivas•  14  Economics, Social Sciences, Poverty, Labour StudiesPROMOCION DE LOS DERECHOS HUMANOS DE PERSONAS LGBT EN EL MUNDO DEL TRABAJOProyecto «Construyendo la igualdad de oportunidades en el mundo del trabajo: combatiendo la homo-lesbo-transfobia». PROMOCIÓN DE LOS DERECHOS HUMANOS DE PERSONAS LGBT EN EL MUNDO DEL TRABAJO (2ª edición revisada y ampliada)Save to LibraryDownloadby Reinaldo Bulgarelli•  6  Human Rights, HIV/AIDS, Sexual Orientation, Employment PolicyPEER-REVIEWED STUDIES AZ EGYÉNI TANÁCSADÁS ELMÉLETE: PÁLYAKONSTRUKCIÓS KÍSÉRLETEK TÁMOGATÁSAAz egyéni (pálya, karrier) tanácsadás fogalma és célja a mai napig számos fél-reértés alapja Magyarországon. Miközben a felhasználók jelentős része még ma is " bölcs tanácsokat " vár el a tanácsadótól, a szakma mértékadó nemzetkö-zi... moreAz egyéni (pálya, karrier) tanácsadás fogalma és célja a mai napig számos fél-reértés alapja Magyarországon. Miközben a felhasználók jelentős része még ma is " bölcs tanácsokat " vár el a tanácsadótól, a szakma mértékadó nemzetkö-zi irodalma már nem egyéni tanácsadásról, inkább az egyén önálló pálya-konstrukciós kísérleteit, szakmai pályafutásának folyamatos újraértelmezését támogató, bármely helyszínen és életkorban megjelenő tanácsadási funkcio-nalitásról elmélkedik. A cikk röviden áttekinti az egyéni tanácsadás elmúlt száz évének nyugat-európai és hazai fejlődését, számba véve azokat a törté-nelmi, társadalom és gazdaságfejlődési szempontokat, amelyek miatt a ta-nácsadás jelentéstartalma olyannyira eltér egymástól Magyarországon és Nyugat-Európában vagy a tengerentúlon. Végezetül a szerző a gazdasági válság társadalmi következményeire hívja fel a figyelmet, hangsúlyozva az egyéni ta-nácsadás társadalmi befogadást elősegítő funkcióját. " Aki a jó tanácsot megveti S mindig csak a maga fejét követi: Sokszor drágán megadja árát, Egész életében vallja kárát. " (Bezerédj Amália 1804-1837, az első magyar gyermekkönyv szerzője) Bevezető – A tanácsadás eredete, funkciói A magyar anyanyelven beszélők közössége egyéni tanácsadás alatt jellemzően olyan helyzete-ket ért, amelyben egy, a tanácskérés témakörében kellő szakmai és/vagy élettapasztalattal ren-delkező tanácsosztó megfelelő útravalóval látja el a tanácskérőt. Ezt a tanácsot azután a tanács-kérő, egy boldogabb élet reményében, megfogadja. Vagy éppen, hogy a tanács tartalmával ellen-tétes utat választ. Cselekedetét így lényegében magához a tanács irányához és nem mellesleg a tanácsadó személyéhez képest méri fel. A tanácsadás jelentéstartalmához szintén ezer szállal kapcsolódik a személyes jelenlét, ezen belül is a valahová, például egy nyugodt szobába (vö. en-nek szakrális jelentését: szentélybe), való elvonulás kelléke, ahol a tanácsadásra magára sor ke-rülhet. Aki pedig (tanácskérőként) az okos tanácsot nem követi, magára vessen, ha sikertelen lesz abban a cselekedetében, amelyhez tanácsot kért. Bár modern világunk folyamatosan átalakulóban van, a tanácskérés klasszikus témakörei mit sem változtak évezredek óta. Olyan kérdésekkel fordulunk tanácsadóhoz; mint a párkapcsolatok, életmód kérdései, a családi együttélés szabályai, pénzügyi kérdések, vagy a pályaválasztás, Borbély-Pecze Tibor Bors szakmai tanácsadó, Nemzetgazdasági Minisztérium. A cikk a TÁMOP 5.6.3-12/1-2012-0001 " A fogvatartottak többszakaszos, társadalmi és munkaerő-piaci reintegrációja és az intenzív utógondozás modellje c. program megrendelésére készült tanulmány szer-kesztett változata.Save to LibraryDownloadby Tibor Bors Borbely-Pecze•  7  Career Guidance Counseling, Career Guidance, Education Policy, EmploymentRevolutionizing Retail: Workers, Political Action, and Social ChangeSave to LibraryDownloadby Kendra Coulter•  14  Social Change, Sociology of Work, Class, Gender and WorkTenter et exploiter l'affranchissement de la subordination. Une ethnographie des usages sociaux du non-salariat : les vendeurs et la vente de biens d'investissement immobilierCe texte propose d’analyser les usages sociaux que les employés et le dirigeant d’une entreprise font d’une forme d’emploi non salariale. D’une part, il entend contribuer à une réflexion sur les conditions de possibilité d’une... moreCe texte propose d’analyser les usages sociaux que les employés et le dirigeant d’une entreprise font d’une forme d’emploi non salariale. D’une part, il entend contribuer à une réflexion sur les conditions de possibilité d’une émancipation des agents sociaux vis-à-vis des rapports de subordination au travail. D’autre part et de manière très corrélée, il analyse les manières dont travailleurs et entrepreneurs utilisent et tentent de tirer profit de l’existence même des dispositifs socio-juridiques et des pratiques d’emploi non salarié (statuts d’auto-entrepreneur, de VRP, d’agent commercial, etc.) et par extension des formes d’emploi intermédiaires entre salariat et indépendance (intérim, portage salarial, groupements d’employeurs, etc.). Notamment, il montre comment les usages sociaux du non-salariat qui ont été observés tout au long de la recherche menée (une ethnographie dans une entreprise du secteur immobilier) se sont inscrits dans une relation d’exploitation économique et sociale particulièrement sophistiquée. Pour cela, il décrit les ajustements sociaux que les travailleurs et l’entrepreneur observés ont réalisés en pratique ; notamment, entre leurs aspirations sociales respectives, leurs ressources, leurs intérêts du moment, ce qu’ils se proposaient de fait et explicitement, leurs représentations de ce que dans quoi ils s’engageaient, la manière dont ils conjuguaient leurs devenirs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Vincent Moeneclaey•  18  Real Estate, Economic Sociology, Sociology of Work, EthnographyAsking About Reasonable Accommodation in the Context of Religious UniversalismInterviews conducted with leading actors in England asking a range of questions about religious diversity and the legal framework and, in particular, about reasonable accommodation, helped identify a number of areas of concern. There was... moreInterviews conducted with leading actors in England asking a range of questions about religious diversity and the legal framework and, in particular, about reasonable accommodation, helped identify a number of areas of concern. There was some doubt about whether specific legal provision should be brought in to guarantee reasonable accommodation. However, there was broad support for having the principle adopted in the practice of employers, while some preferred the current informality rather than the principle being enforced through litigation. None of the respondents came up with illustrations outside of Judaism, Christianity or Islam. The results are consistent with recent critical studies showing that the assumption in social sciences that religion is a universal has been imported from theology. Religion-based questions only pick out certain phenomena specific to some cultures and an inevitable skew is created when asking such questions because they only make sense within an Abrahamic religious framework. While enabling the identification of some aspects of culture considered to merit reasonable accommodation on grounds of religion, the results also pose questions about the adequacy of current, standard research methodologies which assume that religion is a universal.Save to LibraryDownloadby Prakash  Shah•  57  Religion, Christianity, Hinduism, Comparative ReligionTriple-A rating? Juncker’s vision for the EU’s social policy scorecardSave to LibraryDownloadby Mechthild  Roos•  4  Social Policy, European Union, European Commission, Employment PolicyDe Racionalización a Extensión: Los Incentivos al Empleo en la Crisis Económica en EspañaEste artículo aborda el análisis de la transformación, diseño e impacto en los últimos años del instrumento que dentro de las políticas de empleo consiste en proveer incentivos a la contratación (nueva o mantenimiento), por ser este el... moreEste artículo aborda el análisis de la transformación, diseño e impacto en los últimos años del instrumento que dentro de las políticas de empleo consiste en proveer incentivos a la contratación (nueva o mantenimiento), por ser este el más significativo en términos de recursos. Del análisis efectuado se desprende un desarrollo poco coherente en las políticas de incentivos a la contratación, permaneciendo en cualquier caso importantes deficiencias sobre todo en lo que se refiere a la vinculación con formación y la condicionalidad al empresario que se beneficia de estos incentivos. Por otra parte, el creciente uso de reducciones (en lugar de bonificaciones) a las cuotas de la Seguridad Social, dificulta el diagnóstico de la política de incentivos e introduce problemas de sostenibilidad del sistema.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oscar Molina•  5  Employment, Labour Market, Employment Policy, EmpleoAvrupa Birliği İstihdam ve Sosyal PolitkalarıSave to LibraryDownloadby Ercan Yasar and +1Süleyman Emre Özcan•  3  Social Policy, European Union, Employment PolicySustainable Integration of Long-term Unemployed: From Work First to Career FirstThere is a need to move towards preparing the long-term unemployed for better careers – a “Career first” approach, rather than purely “Work first” job entry, but this requires in-vestment in their skills development, training and... moreThere is a need to move towards preparing the long-term unemployed for better careers – a “Career first” approach, rather than purely “Work first” job entry, but this requires in-vestment in their skills development, training and job-seeking support, plus better after-care to support them when in work, especially those with particular issues such as the need for childcare or dealing with health issues. Among organisations involved in Active Labour Market Policy support, the paper argues that there is a requirement for greater career support with skilled support workers providing career choice, career development and career management, which will involve holistic approaches to the needs and aspirations of the individual.  Also, there needs to be greater consideration of the capacity of professionals and local communities to support people moving towards and into sustainable employment. Sustainable work will need individuals to be resilient and adaptable and have relevant technical and non-cognitive skills. Fundamentally, employers need to be encouraged to be willing to adapt and be flexible and there needs to be an improved number and quality of jobs that are available for those moving off unemployment and into a long-term career or employment path. Future Active Labour Market Policies should move, or continue the move, towards a “Career first” approach for many of the long-term unemployed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ronald McQuaid and +1Vanesa Fuertes•  4  Employability, Employment, Career Development, Employment PolicyLa reducción de la jornada laboral como forma de creación de empleo. Una revisión de la aplicación en EuropaA shorter workday has been a historical demand of many trade unions,which view it as a human response to technological progress. Reduction of working hours is currently regarded as an active labor policy that leads to productivity gains... moreA shorter workday has been a historical demand of many trade unions,which view it as a human response to technological progress. Reduction of working hours is currently regarded as an active labor policy that leads to productivity gains and to a distribution of those gains among all economic agents involved. The mechanisms that favor job creation deriving from shorter workdays are based on two premises: reorganizing working hours or, alternatively, making up for their reduction through wage cuts. The set of labor policies based on this idea can be divided into those that directly reduce the duration of the workday, those encouraging part-time jobs, and those whose aim is work-sharing. Taking as an example the different policies implemented in some European countries where either the reduction of working hours has been made mandatory or part-time jobs have been encouraged, this paper analysis the effectiveness of those measures with regard to their manifest purpose of generating or maintaining employment levels.Save to LibraryDownloadby Santos Ruesga  Benito and +1Laura Pérez Ortiz•  6  Unemployment, European Union, Employment, Working TimeSurviving the Assault? The Australian Disability Movement and the Neoliberal Workfare StateSave to LibraryDownloadby Karen Soldatic•  78  Critical Theory, Sociology, Political Sociology, Social ChangeAsking About Reasonable Accommodation in the Context of Religious UniversalismInterviews conducted with leading actors in England asking a range of questions about religious diversity and the legal framework and, in particular, about reasonable accommodation, helped identify a number of areas of concern. There was... moreInterviews conducted with leading actors in England asking a range of questions about religious diversity and the legal framework and, in particular, about reasonable accommodation, helped identify a number of areas of concern. There was some doubt about whether specific legal provision should be brought in to guarantee reasonable accommodation. However, there was broad support for having the principle adopted in the practice of employers, while some preferred the current informality rather than the principle being enforced through litigation. None of the respondents came up with illustrations outside of Judaism, Christianity or Islam. The results are consistent with recent critical studies showing that the assumption in social sciences that religion is a universal has been imported from theology. Religion-based questions only pick out certain phenomena specific to some cultures and an inevitable skew is created when asking such questions because they only make sense within an Abrah...Save to Libraryby Prakash  Shah•  20  Christianity, Comparative Religion, Employment Law, Employment RelationsReddito minimo e piena occupazione Note su un programma di lavoro garantito in Italia - Cap. 12, in "Tornare al lavoro. Lavoro di cittadinanza e piena occupazione", CastelvecchiVersione ampiamente rivista e modificata dell'articolo sul Job Guarantee per l'Italia. Capitolo 12 del libro da me curato, di prossima uscita, "Tornare al lavoro. Lavoro di cittadinanza e piena occupazione", Castelvecchi.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jacopo Foggi•  4  Employment Policy, Full employment, Modern Money Theory, Guaranteed Job ProgramsMeasures to Increase Employment of Nationals in Expatriate Dominated Occupations and promote decent work among all workersThe high dependence on foreign labour makes employment and migration two interdependent issues requiring a coordinated strategy. On the one hand, nearly half of the employed are foreigners , and not only they play a predominant role in... moreThe high dependence on foreign labour makes employment and migration two interdependent issues requiring a coordinated strategy. On the one hand, nearly half of the employed are foreigners , and not only they play a predominant role in low skilled occupations, but are numerous also among professionals and technicians. On the other hand, despite the buoyant economic growth that allowed the Maldives to reach the status of a middle-income country in 2011 , the labour market has been increasingly characterised by unemployment and discouragement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Eleonora Castagnone•  6  Migrant workers, Migration policies, International Labour Migration, Labour migrationDie Rolle des Europäischen Parlaments in der Beschäftigungs- und SozialpolitikSave to LibraryDownloadby Brigitte Pircher•  4  Social Policy, European Parliament, Employment Policy, EU institutionsLes usages d'une 'forme particulière d'emploi' dans l'immobilier d'investissement : trajectoires des commerciaux, façons de vendre et stratégies des entreprisesSave to LibraryDownloadby Vincent Moeneclaey•  18  Entrepreneurship, Real Estate, Economic Sociology, Sociology of WorkAre part of the Society?For this study ‘Are we part of society? On the future, democracy and public services - Thoughts of young people outside of education and work’, young people who find themselves outside of education and work were interviewed twice during... moreFor this study ‘Are we part of society? On the future, democracy and public services - Thoughts of young people outside of education and work’, young people who find themselves outside of education and work were interviewed twice during the period 2017–2019. First, they were interviewed by outreach youth workers, and then by a researcher. For the initial interview, a structured form that contained questions from the annual Youth Barometer study was used with 117 young people. The aim was to become familiar with opinions relating to, for example, well-being, public services and democracy of those young people whose life situation is often challenging and who usually do not participate in the interviews organised by phone for 15–29 years old for the general Youth Barometer.  For the second interview, 35 of the initial 117 participants were given in-depth interviews, whereby the young people, with the guidance of a researcher, were encouraged to tell their life story, so as to evaluate what kind of factors, and which service provisions have had what kind of impact on their life, their career aspirations and on their future. The interviews were carried out in different parts of Finland, including in Southwestern Finland, in Helsinki and the greater Uusimaa region, in the region of Central Finland and in region of Kainuu, which was chosen to represent eastern and northern Finland. The results show the low level of life satisfaction of those young people  who, at the time, found themselves outside of education and work. The findings indicate that the situation is worse when the young person has been unemployed longer than 12 months and for those individuals who consider themselves as belonging to a sexual orientation or gender minority. This study has shown how important and useful this kind of indicator is in pointing out how youth policy resources ought be used – namely in reaching out to those in most need of help.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anu Gretschel•  9  In-depth Interviews, Community Involvement, Young People, EngagementLa Reducción De La Jornada Laboral Como Forma De Creación De Empleo Una Revisión De La Aplicación en EuropaA shorter workday has been a historical demand of many trade unions, which view it as a human response to technological progress. Reduction of working hours is currently regarded as an active labor policy that leads to productivity gains... moreA shorter workday has been a historical demand of many trade unions, which view it as a human response to technological progress. Reduction of working hours is currently regarded as an active labor policy that leads to productivity gains and to a distribution of those gains among all economic agents involved. The mechanisms that favor job creation deriving from shorter workdays are based on two premises: reorganizing working hours or, alternatively, making up for their reduction through wage cuts. The set of labor policies based on this idea can be divided into those that directly reduce the duration of the workday, those encouraging part-time jobs, and those whose aim is work-sharing. Taking as an example the different policies implemented in some European countries where either the reduction of working hours has been made mandatory or part-time jobs have been encouraged, this paper analysis the effectiveness of those measures with regard to their manifest purpose of generating or ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Laura Pérez Ortiz•  6  Unemployment, European Union, Employment, Working TimeBook Review of Keune, Maarten and Serrano, Amparo (eds) (2014), Deconstructing Flexicurity and Developing Alternative Approaches: Towards New Concepts and Approaches for Employment and Social Policy, Abingdon: RoutledgeSave to LibraryDownloadby VARVARA LALIOTI•Employment PolicyEurope 2020 Strategy for inclusive growthHow would the Commission describe EU2020 employment policies in the context of the current crisis?Save to LibraryDownloadby Federica Morelli•  7  European Studies, Poverty Reduction Strategies, European Union, Social WelfareTürkiye’de Büyüme ile İstihdam Arasındaki Etkileşimin Güçlendirilmesinde Esneklik ve Kuralsızlaştırma Politikalarına Alternatif ÖnerilerSave to LibraryDownloadby Mehmet Rauf Kesici•  3  Economic Growth, Unemployment, Employment PolicyMechanisms for the Formulation and Implementation of Employment Policy in ArgentinaThe paper identifies and assesses the mechanisms used to formulate and to implement the employment policy in Argentina. Specifically, it investigates the range of factors that have had a direct or indirect effect on determining the... moreThe paper identifies and assesses the mechanisms used to formulate and to implement  the employment policy in Argentina. Specifically, it investigates the range of factors  that have had a direct or indirect effect on determining the institutional organization surrounding such policies, as well as the context in which the mechanisms of employment policy have been developed. It also reviews the structure of employment  policy and how it functions, as well as the main challenges to its consolidation as a component of a development strategy. The following factors are identified and  described: a) mechanisms for tripartite coordination and coordination across jurisdictions and sectors; b) pillars essential to supporting employment policy, such as inspection, vocational education and training, and public employment services, as well as information, management and assessment systems; and c) accountability mechanisms.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabio Bertranou•  7  Technical and Vocational Education, Vocational Training, Employment Policy, Coordination MechanismsNextLast »Related TopicsLabour market policyFollowFollowingEconomics of CorruptionFollowFollowingComparative Welfare SystemsFollowFollowingVisegrad GroupFollowFollowingProgramme for International Students Assessment (PISA)FollowFollowingCohesion PolicyFollowFollowingEmployment RelationsFollowFollowingMarginalized PopulationsFollowFollowingForesightFollowFollowingLabor MarketFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023