Historical Institutionalism Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Historical Institutionalism10,916 FollowersRecent papers in Historical InstitutionalismTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleA European television historyEuropean Television History brings together television historians and media scholars to chart the development of television in Europe since its inception. The volume interrogates the history of the medium in divergent political, economic,... moreEuropean Television History brings together television historians and media scholars to chart the development of television in Europe since its inception. The volume interrogates the history of the medium in divergent political, economic, cultural and ideological national contexts.Taking a comparative approach to the topic, the volume is organized around a set of common questions, themes, and methodological reflections. It deals with European television in the context of television historiography and transnational traditions. Case study chapters written by scholars from different European countries to reflect their specific areas of expertiseSave to LibraryDownloadby Andreas Fickers and +1Jonathan Bignell•  18  European History, Media Studies, Media and Cultural Studies, Television StudiesCritical Junctures? Privatization Policy in Brazil and Argentina at the Start of the CenturySave to LibraryDownloadby John Hogan•  17  Comparative Politics, Brazilian Studies, Brazilian History, Political SciencePath Dependence, Resilience, and the Gradual Transformation of Regional Architectures in AsiaAndrew Yeo's new book, Asia's Regional Architectures: Alliances and Institutions in the Pacific Century, provides a comprehensive overview of Asia's regional security architecture in the post-World War II period, exploring why Asia's... moreAndrew Yeo's new book, Asia's Regional Architectures: Alliances and Institutions in the Pacific Century, provides a comprehensive overview of Asia's regional security architecture in the post-World War II period, exploring why Asia's regional institutions have overlapped and coexisted for so long and how they have been shaped and are shaping regional actors' ideas and behavior. Just as international relations scholars have begun looking at historical institutionalism to explain international issues, ones ranging from interstate relations to regional security institutions to nonproliferation regimes, Yeo employs its theoretical approach to analyze the establishment and evolution of regional architecture from the postwar period onward. He provides detailed yet succinct accounts of the main political, economic, and security regional institutions in Asia. 1Save to LibraryDownloadby Kei Koga•  12  International Security, East Asian Studies, Historical Institutionalism, ASEANMacroeconomic Policy Change: Ireland in Comparative PerspectiveThis paper sets out to develop an improved framework for examining critical junctures. This a priori framework is a significant improvement over existing critical juncture frameworks that lack any predictive element. It is an advance for... moreThis paper sets out to develop an improved framework for examining critical junctures. This a priori framework is a significant improvement over existing critical juncture frameworks that lack any predictive element. It is an advance for historical institutionalism in particular, and political science in general. After the new framework is set out in detail here, it is tested. The framework is used to examine a number of potential critical junctures in macroeconomic policy, drawn from Ireland, Sweden, Britain, and America in the latter half of the twentieth century.Save to LibraryDownloadby John W Hogan (Senior Research Fellow)•  17  Economics, Comparative Politics, Political Economy, Political ScienceAusterity and Public Administration: Italy Between Modernization and Spending CutsThis article analyzes the Italian government's response to the sovereign debt crisis. Given the severity of the fiscal crisis affecting Italy, this article provides insights about the crisis's implication for public administration in such... moreThis article analyzes the Italian government's response to the sovereign debt crisis. Given the severity of the fiscal crisis affecting Italy, this article provides insights about the crisis's implication for public administration in such a politically sensitive environment where drastic and far-reaching measures had to be taken by the government. Drawing on the historical institutionalist approach, the impact of the crisis is not considered in isolation but in the context of the historical trajectory that has shaped the government's capacity to respond. To assess the crisis's implications for public administration, the empirical analysis focuses on public employment as an area that is especially exposed to fiscal restraint. The findings reveal that the current crisis has been managed with straight cutback management, as public administration has been considered by policy makers just as a source of public expenditure to be squeezed rather than as a provider of public services in need of modernization so as to sustain economic growth. The global crisis that started in 2007-2008 had significant implications for the fiscal position of Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) nations (Posner & Blondal, 2012). As the global crisis mutated from a problem affecting the private economy to a sovereign debt problem, public spending cutbacks cameSave to LibraryDownloadby Fabrizio Di Mascio and +1Alessandro Natalini•  10  Italian Politics, Historical Institutionalism, Policy learning, New InstitutionalismTransparency in the EU Council of Ministers: An Institutional AnalysisSave to LibraryDownloadby Maarten  Hillebrandt•  4  Institutional Theory, Historical Institutionalism, transparency and access to EU documents, Council of MinistersCaroline Fehl, Unequal power and the institutional design of global governance: The case of arms controlIR scholars have recently paid increasing attention to unequal institutional orders in world politics, arguing that global governance institutions are deeply shaped by power inequalities among states. Yet, the literature still suffers... moreIR scholars have recently paid increasing attention to unequal institutional orders in world politics, arguing that global governance institutions are deeply shaped by power inequalities among states. Yet, the literature still suffers from conceptual limitations and from a shortage of empirical work. The article addresses these shortcomings through a study of the historical evolution of global arms control institutions since 1945. It shows that in this important policy area, the global institutional order has not been marked by a recent trend toward deeper inequality, as many writings on unequal institutions suggest. Instead, the analysis reveals a pattern of institutional mutation whereby specific forms of institutional inequality are recurrently replaced and supplemented by new forms. This process, the article argues, is driven by states' efforts to adapt the regime to a changing material and normative environment within the constraints of past institutional legacies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Caroline Fehl•  6  International Relations Theory, Historical Institutionalism, Hegemony, Social InequalityNews Media as Political InstitutionsThis chapter discusses research on the policies, laws, and subsidies that create and shape the organizational structures and practices that form the basis of the news media. The research reviewed treats news media institutions as... moreThis chapter discusses research on the policies, laws, and subsidies that create and shape the organizationalstructures and practices that form the basis of the news media. The research reviewed treats news mediainstitutions as political actors and makes assumptions about journalism’s importance in a democratic society.Although this line of research, with its emphasis on political economic and normative questions, often has beenmarginalized in American mass communication scholarship, the authors explain its ongoing importance,particularly in relation to the journalism crisis, and, suggest future directions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Victor Pickard•  30  Institutional Economics, Political Economy, Media Studies, New MediaThe Alabama Project - Nixon's 'Assassination Team'Save to LibraryDownloadby Lisa Elkins Goodman•  163  Religion, History, American History, Modern HistoryHistorischer Institutionalismus und Vergleichende Föderalismusforschung: Fragestellungen und AnalyseperspektivenWith some exceptions, efforts to systematically apply a historical-institutionalist framework to the study of federalism have been few and far between. This paper argues, however, that historical institutionalism lends itself particularly... moreWith some exceptions, efforts to systematically apply a historical-institutionalist framework to the study of federalism have been few and far between. This paper argues, however, that historical institutionalism lends itself particularly well for addressing two important research questions in the field of comparative federalism: the origins of federal systems and their dynamics. It is suggested that a historical-institutionalist framework can significantly contribute to encourage theoretical cross-fertilization within the field of comparative federalism.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jörg Broschek•  4  American Political Development, Historical Institutionalism, Comparative Federalism, Constitutional PoliticsIdeas of Power: The Politics of American Party Ideology DevelopmentThroughout U.S. history, the two major political parties have switched positions many times on a variety of issues, including whether the United States should intervene more or less in foreign affairs. Are these changes simply the product... moreThroughout U.S. history, the two major political parties have switched positions many times on a variety of issues, including whether the United States should intervene more or less in foreign affairs. Are these changes simply the product of historical contingency, or are there structural factors at work that can help explain these developments? To improve our understanding of American party ideologies, this paper applies a historical institutional approach to the question of party ideology development, and shows how party control of government institutions influences the evolution of party ideologies. Specifically, this paper finds that changes in party control of the presidency can help explain changes in party ideologies with respect to foreign policy.Save to Libraryby Verlan Lewis•  20  American Politics, Liberalism, Ideology, ConservatismTheorizing civilian control of the military in emerging democracies: agency, structure and institutional changeThis article integrates insights from historical institutionalism and arguments of strategic action in order to develop a new conceptual and theoretical approach to explaining changes in civil-military relations. In order to enforce... moreThis article integrates insights from historical institutionalism and arguments of strategic action in order to develop a new conceptual and theoretical approach to explaining changes in civil-military relations. In order to enforce civilian control over the military in new democracies, civilian decision-makers need to “break” stabilizing mechanisms of path dependence in civil-military relations. The ability of ‘change agents’ to overcome ‘path dependence’ depends on the concrete approach civilians take to reduce military power. Civilian choices, however, are structured by the specific structural, institutional and ideational contexts in which civil-military interaction takes place. These contextual factors also provide the constraints and resources for civilian actions. The civilian choices and the success of their control strategies are thus conditioned by the resources to which civilians have access and which allow them to initiate and consolidate changes vis-à-vis those actors opposing change in civil-military relations. Durch die Verbindung von Erkenntnissen des historischen Institutionalismus mit Argumenten des strategischen Handelns entwickelt der Artikel eine neue konzeptionelle und theoretische Herangehensweise zur Erklärung der Veränderungen des Verhältnisses von Militär und Zivilisten. In neuen Demokratien stellt die Durchsetzung ziviler Kontrolle des Militärs als Versuch ziviler Entscheidungsträger, stabilisierende Mechanismen der Pfadabhängigkeit zivil-militärischer Beziehungen zu „durchbrechen“, eine Herausforderung dar. Die Fähigkeit von change agents die Pfadabhängigkeiten zu überwinden unterliegt der konkreten Herangehensweise der Zivilisten zur Verringerung militärischer Macht. Jedoch gestalten die jeweiligen strukturellen, institutionellen und ideellen Rahmenbedingungen, innerhalb derer die zivil-militärischen Interaktionen erfolgen, die zivilen Wahlmöglichkeiten und stellen sowohl Einschränkungen als auch Ressourcen zivilen Handelns dar. Die Wahlmöglichkeiten der Zivilisten und der Erfolg ihrer Kontrollstrategien werden dementsprechend durch die Ressourcen bedingt, zu welchen sie Zugang haben und die es ihnen gestatten, Veränderungen hinsichtlich derjenigen Akteure zu initiieren und zu konsolidieren, die Veränderungen der zivil-militärischen Beziehungen ablehnen.Save to LibraryDownloadby Siegfried O. Wolf•  7  Democratization, Institutional Change, Historical Institutionalism, Path DependenceInstitutionalist and State-Centric Theories of Political SociologySave to LibraryDownloadby Edwin Amenta•  25  Political Sociology, Social Movements, Methodology, ClassPolitical Science and Big Data Structured Data, Unstructured Data, and How to Use ThemSave to LibraryDownloadby Ami Pedahzur•  6  Research Methodology, Historical Institutionalism, Unstructured Data Management, Big DataEU economic governance and Covid-19: policy learning and windows of opportunityThis article analyses the extent to which the Covid-19 pandemic crisis represents a window of opportunity towards fundamental change in the economic governance of the European Union (EU). Adopting a historical institutionalist (HI)... moreThis article analyses the extent to which the Covid-19 pandemiccrisis represents a window of opportunity towards fundamentalchange in the economic governance of the European Union (EU).Adopting a historical institutionalist (HI) perspective and drawinginsights from the policy learning literature, we argue that contingent learning immediately took place and policy entrepreneurstook important decisions recognising the new crisis as an existentialthreat for the EU. Further, the pandemic crisis support fund and theECB pandemic emergency purchase programme representinstances of single loop learning that leave the fundamentals ofeconomic governance untouched. However, and in contrast to theEuro area crisis response, the adoption of the Recovery andResilience Facility (RRF) represents a bold decision and suggestsdouble-loop learning. It is argued that the Covid-19 crisis is a criticaljuncture for the EU. As a result, EU economic governance ceases tobe limited to its regulatory function and is now complemented bya redistributive function as well.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dimitris Tsarouhas and +1Stella Ladi•  6  Historical Institutionalism, European Union, Policy learning, European Political EconomyMAGALLÁNICA, Revista de Historia Moderna, Vol. 7, Núm 13 - Número completoSave to LibraryDownloadby Magallánica  Revista de Historia Moderna and +1Maria Luz  González Mezquita•  19  Early Modern History, Conflict, XVIII century, Historical InstitutionalismComparative Political Economy: States, Markets and Global Capitalism (second edition)This is a book about how 21st Century capitalism really works. Modern economics strips away social, historical, and political context from analysis of ‘the economic’, but the economy is far too important to leave exclusively to the... moreThis is a book about how 21st Century capitalism really works. Modern economics strips away social, historical, and political context from analysis of ‘the economic’, but the economy is far too important to leave exclusively to the economists. Comparative Political Economy (CPE) is a much broader, richer intellectual undertaking which ‘re-embeds’ the analysis of the economic within the social and political realm. This is at the heart of how to think like a political economist.Clift maps the terrain, substantive focus and evolution of CPE. This provides the analytical tools to explore the many variants of capitalism, unearthing their roots in competing visions of the desirable distribution of the fruits of growth within firms and across societies, and varied practices of market-making across the advanced economies. Drawing on the insights of classical political economy, the book explains how these visions generate ongoing political struggles over how to regulate and manage capitalism. This book connects Comparative Political Economy systematically to the subfield of International Political Economy (IPE), calling for cross-fertilisation between the two. Exploring key concepts and theoretical debates in the long-established field of Political Economy, this book analyses the production, reproduction and distribution of power and wealth within contemporary world order. Connects Comparative political economy (CPE) systematically to the subfield of International Political economy – ideal for courses on each.•Sets out the scope of political economy to provide the groundwork both for thinking like a political economist, and for in-depth exploration of CPE.•Delineates the central focus of comparative political economy, charting its genealogy via consideration of some of the towering scholarship in the field•Maps the major substantive themes, empirical developments and theoretical debates within the field of CPE over the last 50 years•Provides the analytical toolkit – honed and crafted by the great political economy scholars of the past – for an in-depth analysis of contemporary dynamics in state/market relations•Situates contemporary CPE within the evolution of the Classical political economy of Smith, Marx, List and  others, as well as seminal interventions by Hayek, Keynes and PolanyiSave to LibraryDownloadby Ben Clift•  20  Comparative Politics, Political Economy, Globalization, MarxismHistorical Institutionalism and the Study of Canadian PoliticsSave to LibraryDownloadby Jörg Broschek•  4  American Political Development, Historical Institutionalism, Canadian Political History, Canadian PoliticsBeyond the 'worlds of compliance': a sociological and discursive approach to the Europeanisation of gender equality policiesSave to LibraryDownloadby EMANUELA LOMBARDO•  7  Gender Equality, Historical Institutionalism, European Union, Gender and PoliticsCritical JuncturesIn historical institutional analysis, critical junctures are rare moments in the development of an institution or a policy. Due to endogenous or exogenous disruptions, during critical junctures there is a substantial increase in the... moreIn historical institutional analysis, critical junctures are rare moments in the development of an institution or a policy. Due to endogenous or exogenous disruptions, during critical junctures there is a substantial increase in the possibility that powerful political actors –be these individuals or organizations-- can, in a relatively short span of time, influence decisively the creation of new enduring, path-dependent institutions or the significant reform of existing ones. Pre-existing social, economic, and cultural conditions typically influence actors’ decisions, strategies, and interactions during the critical juncture --e.g. by limiting the range of plausible institutional options available, empowering or disempowering certain actors, offering different arenas for interactions-- but they do not predetermine its outcome. Hence, the defining trait of critical junctures is contingency: during a critical juncture, more than one option for institutional innovation must be available to actors, and must be plausibly attainable ex ante. The chapter conceptualizes and illustrates several situations in which the relexation of contraints on agency offers the opportunity for the establishment of new path-dependent institutions. In some cases, this opportunity is not seized: structural preconditions may be broadly favorable to the creation of certain institutions, but the failure to effectively mobilize supportive groups may fail to produce institutional innovation, or institutional innovation may be possible and attempted but may be narrowly missed. In other cases, against similar background conditions, short-term political imperatives may lead to the formation of different political coalitions that then support different institutional reforms. In other situations, even though the preferences of key actors are linked to pre-existing structural conditions, the institutional outcome that emerges from the juncture may not correspond to the actors’ individual or combined preferences (“out-of-winset” outcomes). In addition, the chapter pays particular attention to the importance of the politics of ideas during critical junctures, in which politically influential actors may seek to establish the legitimacy of new institutional arrangements. Looking at the politics of institutional formation during critical junctures through these theoretical lenses can inform comparative analysis and yield fresh findings, thus furthering the scholarly conversation on institutional change. The conclusion of the chapter locates critical juncture and path dependency analysis in the broader context of theories of institutional change, identifying the potential limitations of such theories and pointing to avenues of further theorization.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giovanni Capoccia•  20  Comparative Politics, Political Economy, Historical Institutionalism, Political InstitutionsMergers in Higher Education: The Experience from Northern Europe (2016)This book addresses the critical knowledge gaps of mergers involving higher education institutions. It is based on a comparative research project (spring 2013-spring 2015) investigating the phenomena of mergers involving higher education... moreThis book addresses the critical knowledge gaps of mergers involving higher education institutions. It is based on a comparative research project (spring 2013-spring 2015) investigating the phenomena of mergers involving higher education institutions across the Nordic countries – Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. The study involved close to 30 scholars from the region, and aimed at shedding critical light on, and providing novel contributions around, the following key aspects: Conceptual and theoretical approaches – strengths and limitations - towards the study of the phenomena of mergers in higher education; Historical developments, leading to significant structural changes in the domestic higher education landscape, and, in turn, how mergers have been used as a policy/institutional mechanism to foster adaptation to a new external environment at the local, national, regional and international levels; The complex dynamics inherent to merger processes by undertaking an in-depth investigation of a series of selected case studies, with a particular focus on the “black-box” associated with the implementation process; The implications of the findings as regards future policy and strategic endeavours, theory development and future research agenda.Save to LibraryDownloadby Romulo Pinheiro•  32  Organizational Behavior, Management, Public Administration, Public ManagementMethodological Individualism between Explanation and Theory BuildingPresented at the Third Conference of the European Network for the Philosophy of the Social Sciences (ENPOSS), Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia (UNED), Madrid, Spain, 10–12 September 2014.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gianluca Pozzoni•  19  Sociology, Social Movements, Social Theory, Political EconomyHistorical Institutionalist Approach in Comparative Media Systems Research: The Case of Post-YugoslaviaThis article aims to demonstrate the usefulness of the historical institutionalist approach for the comparative study of media systems in post-socialist European democracies. The article explores institutional circumstances influencing... moreThis article aims to demonstrate the usefulness of the historical institutionalist approach for the comparative study of media systems in post-socialist European democracies. The article explores institutional circumstances influencing the development of media systems in southeastern Europe during three distinct historical periods following formative critical junctures, namely, the 19 th century modernization period, the post-WWII socialist period, and the period of post 1989 democratic transformation. In this pilot study a set of institutional dimensions is operationalized with aggregate data and comparatively tested in a cluster analysis of six successor states of socialist Yugoslavia. Two clusters are shown with similar historical conditions – Slovenia and Croatia group into one cluster, while Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia in the other. Why are media systems in Central and Eastern Europe different from those in the west? After 25 years of media research we are still not sure how to answer this question. Several flawed generalization have contributed to this state of affairs: an overgeneralization of the socialist past, narrow focus on media reforms of the post-socialist period, and a disregard for the importance of the formative period of modernization in media development. This disregard for the long-term historical influences, or the "tabula rasa" hypothesis (Kitcshelt 1995), is responsible for much misunderstanding about media system and media policy development in post 1989 CEE. In this article I argue that in order to understand the contemporary institutional formations and related practices of media systems in new democracies, the investigation should be extended to the times before the introduction of political pluralism i. Socialist and pre-socialist institutional legacy is engaged as an influence on contemporary media systems in Central and Eastern Europe. Historical institutionalist approach is used to construct a new heuristic model. Cluster analysis is employed in order to test the model empirically in a pilot study of six countries in southeast Europe. The study takes a multidisciplinary approach in combining communication theory with political science and sociology, in order to grasp the macro level relationships in media system construction and benefit from theoretical and empirical knowledge relating to post-communism and social change. * Zrinjka Peruško is professor of media communication theory and Chair of theSave to LibraryDownloadby Zrinjka Peruško•  13  Journalism, Mass Communication, Historical Institutionalism, Media and Democracy教育改革如何促成高職轉型？──綜合高中的社會學政策分析教育改革至今已經超過 15... more教育改革至今已經超過 15 年，許多教育改革政策卻始終未能有效地研究。本文利用歷史制度論和教育市場這兩種觀點，研究高職轉型綜合高中的政策過程，並且強調理念和象徵鬥爭在這改革過程的重要性。本文考察的問題有三個：第一，過去高職教育的歷史遺緒，包括外部的政治經濟條件、內部的教育政策理念，以及綜合高中政策的前身──「普通科學生跨科選修職業類科課程」。第二，教育改革運動促成的關鍵轉折，包括人本主義教育理念，以及教改諮議會中的政策辯論，促成綜合高中成為廣設高中和高職轉型的主要政策。第三，綜合高中在後期中等教育市場中如何擴張與衰退。本文發現，第一，在高職轉型綜合高中的過程，高職教育理念是一個重要的變項，從強調技職教育的理念，替換成人本主義理念，是造成高職轉型的主要原因之一。第二，儘管許多人批評教改人士需要為教改負責，但是本研究發現，改革過程的參與者包括教育部官員、教改運動人士、教育學者以及學校校長，教育部官員仍然扮演關鍵的影響力。第三，當綜合高中開始在教育市場推動時，部份學校為了在市場上競爭與生存，所以投入轉型，綜合高中快速擴張，而高職則快速減少。然而由於教育政策的調整、少子化現象以及市場內的競爭，最後使得許多轉型的學校退場，就讀綜合高中的學生數量持續減少。本文強調理念和象徵鬥爭在教育改革的重要性，理念不僅賦予政策正當性，在實作中也和利益混合，這尤其反映在教育市場的競爭中，理念成為學校之間競爭的象徵資源。綜合高中改革的失敗提醒我們，許多立意良善的改革政策和理念，需要妥善考慮到現實環境的阻力以及實作邏輯。Save to LibraryDownloadby Kai-Heng Lin•  4  Sociology of Education, Historical Institutionalism, Pierre Bourdieu, Technical and Vocational EducationExpanding Access to Higher Education.pdfThis article adopts a historical institutionalism perspective (Pierson, 2011; Pierson & Skocpol, 2002; Thelen, 2014). Its main goal is to understand the lasting dynamics and path dependency processes that constrain the impact of expanding... moreThis article adopts a historical institutionalism perspective (Pierson, 2011; Pierson & Skocpol, 2002; Thelen, 2014). Itsmain goal is to understand the lasting dynamics and path dependency processes that constrain the impact of expanding access to higher education (HE) in changing the pattern of social inequalities in a given country. To do this, the article will explore two different aspects of the impact of education on social inclusion: the dynamics associated with production and distribution of portable skills and competences, and the dynamics associated with social stratification. The study follows the experience of Brazilian HE over the last 15 years. In this period, the country experienced a rapid expansion, coming from a total undergraduate enrolment of 2.7 million in 2000 up to nine million in 2016. Nevertheless, the design of thisexpansion assumed a very conservative pattern. Following a well-ingrained domestic pattern, most of this expansion was absorbed by the country’s huge demand-driven private sector, and into less than half a dozen very traditional types of bachelor programs. Thus, the article argues that by failing to diversify, and by preserving old institutional hierarchies, expanding access to HE in Brazil has rendered less impact than one would expect on the country’s social inequalities.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elizabeth Balbachevsky•  3  Higher Education, Historical Institutionalism, Social InclusionCostituzionalismo sociale (teoria del)Save to LibraryDownloadby Angelo Jr Golia•  12  Legal Theory, Legal Pluralism, Autopoiesis, Systems Theory3.0 Beyond the Land and Sea: Diasporic South Fujianese in Hội An, Batavia, and Manila, 1550-1850. Ph.D. dissertation, WUSTL, 2019 (Contents & Introduction)This dissertation is primarily focused on the mechanisms employed by the South Fujianese, one the most prominent regional sub-groups in China, to embed themselves, and reshape local ecologies in three early modern Southeast Asian port... moreThis dissertation is primarily focused on the mechanisms employed by the South Fujianese, one the most prominent regional sub-groups in China, to embed themselves, and reshape local ecologies in three early modern Southeast Asian port cities—Hội An, Batavia, and Manila, during the period 1550 to 1850. The operations of native-place associations, land purchases, and temple (kelenteng) construction, along with annual ritual and the economic interdependence created through daily supplies, could all become key embedding mechanisms. The South Fujianese adapted broadly with their different embedding mechanisms, politically, economically, socially, and militarily, to their host societies. They contributed much to the rise of Hội An as a port, and in this area the operations of native-place associations and land purchases were two prominent and effective mechanisms. Through these two mechanisms, the migrants finally turned the host society into a permanant home. The South Fujianese in Batavia under the agent system partially transplanted themselves as a small society. Within that community, they had the chance to develop their legal and annual practices, and avoided most severe conflicts with the powers in their host society. By practicing different rites, and emphasizing different festivals as well as common celebrations, or overlapping ritual practices on important days, different kelenteng actually worked together to “transplant” a “traditional” Chinese belief system and ritual structures. The mechanism that the South Fujianese developed in Manila, expressed in the supply of basic daily utilities and currency exchanges that maintained a concentrated market, was not effective enough in that the South Fujianese were easily suspected and, in turn, viewed as aggressive and intractable groups. Only after a stronger mechanism was nourished did the relations between the South Fujianese and the Spaniards escape the cycle of massacre and rebuilding. This process can be characterized as “structural reproduction.” This dissertation provides an historical explanation of the presence of Chinese immigrants in early modern Southeast Asia, and attempts to reach a more comprehensive understanding of Southeast Asian history through adding the spectrum of immigrants.Save to LibraryDownloadby Boyi Chen (陈博翼)•  20  Southeast Asian Studies, Early Modern History, Chinese Studies, DiasporasGentrification in AmsterdamNeil Smith argues that in the last two decades gentrification has become a generalized global urban phenomenon. His theory is at a high level of abstraction, as it links urban gentrification to globalization, financial capitalism and... moreNeil Smith argues that in the last two decades gentrification has become a generalized global urban phenomenon. His theory is at a high level of abstraction, as it links urban gentrification to globalization, financial capitalism and neo-liberalization. With these global processes, all cities have experienced ‘third wave’ gentrification. The theory, however, leaves little room for variegations of gentrification, apart from characterizing geographical differences as idiosyncrasies or as minor variations. This downplays the role of intervening mechanisms that impinge upon the pursuit and social outcomes of gentrification. This paper modestly aims to amend abstract theory by looking at Amsterdam from an historical institutional perspective. In Amsterdam, gentrification was particularly made possible by a process of neo-liberalization within the housing system. However, as institutional change is incremental and based on layering and conversion, many older institutional arrangements remain in place. These arrangements tend to slow gentrification and assuage social consequences. Nevertheless, neoliberal modifications to the housing system have been accelerating the pursuit of gentrification. Current policies will very likely lead to exclusionary displacement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Wouter van Gent•  8  Gentrification, Historical Institutionalism, Housing Policy, HousingMirrors for Princes and Sultans: Advice on the Art of Governance in the Medieval Christian and Islamic WorldsWhen did European modes of political thought diverge from those that existed in other world regions? We compare Muslim and Christian political advice texts from the medieval period using automated text analysis to identify four major and... moreWhen did European modes of political thought diverge from those that existed in other world regions? We compare Muslim and Christian political advice texts from the medieval period using automated text analysis to identify four major and 60 granular themes common to Muslim and Christian polities, and examine how emphasis on these topics evolves over time. For Muslim texts, we identify an inflection point in political discourse between the eleventh to thirteenth centuries, a juncture that historians suggest is an ideational watershed brought about by the Turkic and Mongol invaders. For Christian texts, we identify a decline in the relevance of religious appeals from the Middle Ages to the Renaissance. Our findings also suggest that Machiavelli’s Prince was less a turn away from religious discourse on statecraft than the culmination of centuries-long developments in European advice literature.Save to LibraryDownloadby Alison McQueen and +1J. Grimmer•  17  Humanities Computing (Digital Humanities), Digital Humanities, Political Theory, Historical InstitutionalismMethodological Individualism between Explanation and Theory Building [ABSTRACT]Save to LibraryDownloadby Gianluca Pozzoni•  19  Sociology, Social Movements, Social Theory, Political EconomyHistorical institutionalism in comparative politicsSave to LibraryDownloadby Natthiya Luehong•  20  Comparative Politics, Political Economy, Political Science, Institutional ChangeVarieties of institutional theory in comparative employment relationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Marco Hauptmeier•  17  Industrial And Labor Relations, Sociology of Work, Constructivism, Employment Relations La colonización de las Islas Canarias en el siglo XVSave to LibraryDownloadby Eduardo  Aznar Vallejo•  8  Economic History, Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Atlantic World" การเปลี่ยนแปลงเชิงสถาบั น" ในแนวทางสถาบันนิยมเชิงประวัติศาสตร์  (Institutional Change' in Historical Institutionalism)Save to LibraryDownloadby Siwapon Chompupun•  2  Historical Institutionalism, New InstitutionalismAndreas Anter, "Max Weber’s Theory of the Modern State: Origins, Structure and Significance" (2014)Save to LibraryDownloadby Daniel Neep•  17  Sociology, Political Sociology, Social Theory, Historical SociologyIdeas and Historical InstitutionalismSave to LibraryDownloadby Oddný Helgadóttir and +1William Kring•  3  Political Economy, Historical Institutionalism, Ideas2020. Australian Quarantine Policy: From Centralization to Coordination with mid-Pandemic COVID-19 ShiftsLink: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/puar.13224 Abstract: By combining a historical institutionalism approach with institutional isomorphism and punctuated equilibrium, this paper analyses quarantine policy change across 120 years of... moreLink: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/puar.13224  Abstract: By combining a historical institutionalism approach with institutional isomorphism and punctuated equilibrium, this paper analyses quarantine policy change across 120 years of Australian quarantine history. By anchoring our analysis within specific time periods (years before the Spanish flu, seven decades of inaction, and multiple post-1997 pandemic updates and responses), we highlight when and why policies did or did not change and how constant push-and-pulls between State and Commonwealth institutional ownership altered policy possibilities. The heart of our analysis showcases how Australia’s successful COVID-19 response is a unique output of prior quarantine policies, institutional evolution, and mid-pandemic alterations of key national pandemic response plans.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kim Moloney and +1Susan Moloney•  6  Australia, Historical Institutionalism, Quarantine, Institutional IsomorphismInstitutional Entrepreneurship and Policy Change: Theoretical and Empirical ExplorationsSave to LibraryDownloadby Darryl Jarvis•  14  Institutional Economics, Comparative Politics, Public Administration, Institutional TheoryA MONARCHY WITHOUT A KINGDOM: YOGYAKARTA'S EXCEPTIONAL SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT Submitted byIn August 2012, the Indonesian parliament passed a law that confirmed the status of the province of Yogyakarta as a so-called Special Region. This status had been in place since Indonesian independence, however, decentralization policies... moreIn August 2012, the Indonesian parliament passed a law that confirmed the status of the province of Yogyakarta as a so-called Special Region. This status had been in place since Indonesian independence, however, decentralization policies introduced after the fall of Suharto in 1998 raised questions about its legal foundations. The 2012 law appoints the traditional ruler of the former Sultanate of Yogyakarta, Sultan Hamengkubuwono, as governor of the region without the need for an election. This regulation makes Yogyakarta the only province in contemporary Indonesia whose governor is not freely elected by the people. The law therefore formalized a unique hybrid system of government for Yogyakarta in which elements of democratic rule are combined with features of a traditional monarchy.This thesis examines the reasons why Yogyakarta has been able to retain the sultan's privileges in the face of significant political pressure from the central government to introduce free gubernatorial elections in Yogyakarta. Building on insights from historical institutionalism, the thesis analyses the historical roots of the sultanate, its evolution under different political regimes and its configuration in the post-Suharto era. Focusing on sources of the sultan's power and legitimacy, institutional arrangements and the sultan's relations with various interest groups, the thesis argues that Yogyakarta retained its special status primarily because the central government missed the opportunity to change its status in the wake of the critical juncture of 1998. Once this opportunity was missed, path dependency dictated the continuation of existing institutional arrangements, even if these arrangements rested on ambiguous legal foundations. After 1998, the sultan used successful local development, patron-client relations and control over land to boost his legitimacy and cement his power. Thus, by the time the central government proposed to turn the sultan into a purely ceremonial leader, it found virtually no support for its plans.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dwi Harsono•  2  Historical Institutionalism, Hybrid Regimes Documentos Canarios en el Registro General del Sello (1518-1525)Save to LibraryDownloadby Eduardo  Aznar Vallejo•  11  Economic History, Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Atlantic WorldSocial Institutions and the Problem of Order A Relational Approach to Neo-Institutionalism through Social System theory, Social Constructionism, and Critical Ideology TheoryOne of the most profound social scientific questions pertains to social order – the stability, change, and functioning of human societies. Two prongs to this question inform the background to operationalising any institutional theory: how... moreOne of the most profound social scientific questions pertains to social order – the stability, change, and functioning of human societies. Two prongs to this question inform the background to operationalising any institutional theory: how a society can simultaneously maintain its integration and co-ordination (e.g., division of labour) and whether a society can be understood as more than the sum of its parts. The most influential contemporary tradition of institutionalism, known as neo-institutionalism, is no exception with regard to these interconnected questions. Celebrating a new era for institutionalism in the 1990s, some members of that school declared a ‘reconciliation agenda’ aimed at overcoming the vast gulf between ‘system’ and ‘lifeworld’ thinking in the social sciences, a chasm that separates between traditions on the basis of their perspective on the problem of order. Moreover, the neo-institutionalist pursuit, as a more nuanced exercise, was intended to offer a foundation for social studies that consider society to be structured but still changing, in all its richness and variety, without being unnecessarily formalistic. While neoinstitutionalism today shows greater variety than ever, this reconciliation has not yet come about. In-depth study pinpoints this failure is rooted in neo-institutionalism’s theoretical premises and in the need for academic demarcation. That conclusion is based on critical reconstruction of two branches of neo-institutionalism: historical institutionalism (HI), which represents ‘system’ thinking, and so-called ideational scholarship (IS), representing the ‘lifeworld’ approach. The main problem with theoretical underpinnings is related to their background ontologies’ connection, on one hand, with dichotomies such as agent–structure and material–ideal and, on the other, with linear causal reasoning. For example, IS tends to create theoretical causal objects as tools for empirical enquiry (‘causal’ because science is based on causal reasoning and ‘objects’ since only ‘real’ things may possess causal powers). The task of explaining empirical cases entails giving these abstractions an ontological status, making them ‘things’ with inherent properties. This objectifying leads to ambiguous conceptions of how the social world operates, though. Imaginary causal objects may detach actors from their concrete conditions, or the entirety of institutional reality may be derived from individual cognitions. In general, the essence of institutions for neo-institutionalists typically involves a weird combination of mental states with unexplained ‘materialism’ or, alternatively, a mixture that includes rules, norms, cognitive frames, and other manifestations of the social relations behind institutions. Although neo-institutionalists’ adoption of a more fine-grained and empirically based approach to institutions has addressed some shortcomings of earlier work, the ‘social’ denominator of the equation still appears to be neglected. Research into the highly debated issue of how to explain the institutional nature of society in a manner beyond the system–lifeworld dichotomy seems to suggest that the common denominator involves proceeding from social relations. A project was undertaken to revitalise the reconciliation agenda through reconstruction of further theoretical approaches. The selection used these three criteria: 1) having a direct or indirect connection with neo-institutionalism; 2) tackling the problem of order as a concrete issue as it serves as a point of reference for all the approaches; and 3) applying relevant neo-institutionalists’ development aspirations, such as Paul Pierson’s research agenda, according to which HI should address ideology theories. Among the traditions investigated were the social system theory of Talcott Parsons, Peter L. Berger and Thomas Luckmann’s social constructionism, and the critical ideology theory of Projekt Ideologietheorie (PIT). Both HI and IS were considered in light of these traditions and, thereby, supplemented, complemented, and challenged by them. In addition, independent consideration of the various traditions and original readings were carried out. The social system theory reconstructed in the project complements HI with a coherent structure to the theory. The perspective formed by a new reading of Parsons as a relational theorist offers a detailed description of institutional integration mechanisms also. The reconstruction of social constructionism, in turn, spotlights the problems of cognition-based lifeworld theories. Rather than describe institutionalisation, accounts in this tradition seem to focus on the (historical) formation of actors’ experiences. That formation is a key issue in all the traditions examined. One element of departure, in contrast, is that all the ones mentioned above assume people’s equilibrium-seeking behaviour, while PIT turns this around. It asks how modern capitalist societies have held together notwithstanding their internal contradictions (where these contradictions stem primarily from capitalist competition relations that, while beyond individuals’ control, form very real conditions for each individual acting in market relations). Accordingly, PIT presents capitalist society as a contradiction-rich whole, where various groups, with differing interests, must come together to sufficient extent to maintain or challenge the prevailing order. Ideology theory describes the contradictory nature of society and explains how social relations produce disorder as an unintended consequence of mundane, institutionalised practices. To synthesise the findings on all of these traditions and their underpinnings, the dissertation project’s outputs include a synthesis of social relations that extends beyond the system–lifeworld division in examining how a society may operate as more than the sum of its parts.Save to LibraryDownloadby Olli Herranen•  18  Social Theory, Critical Social Theory, Institutional Theory, Institutional ChangeJustice at Ayodhya: Individual Culpability in the Destruction of the Babri MasjidThis dissertation challenges the Liberhan Ayodhya Commission Report by highlighting that neither the BJP, as an institution, nor its leadership, key individuals, maintained a periphery role in the destruction of the Babri Masjid. It... moreThis dissertation challenges the Liberhan Ayodhya Commission Report by highlighting that neither the BJP, as an institution, nor its leadership, key individuals, maintained a periphery role in the destruction of the Babri Masjid. It substantiates that their responsibility lay not only in communalising the Ayodhya movement but, also in leveraging the movement as a platform for communalising Indian society; two enduring factors that this dissertation finds, are integral ingredients in the demolition of the Babri Masjid.Save to LibraryDownloadby Apurv Gupta•  12  Religion, Religion and Politics, Historical Institutionalism, Indian PoliticsOcean Nets: The Maintenance and Dissolution of an Indigenous Small World-System in West PolynesiaThis thesis is an application of the theory and method of the comparative world-systems approach to West Polynesia. This study examines the interactions between the archipelagos of Tonga, Fiji, and Samoa during the period between 1770 and... moreThis thesis is an application of the theory and method of the comparative world-systems approach to West Polynesia. This study examines the interactions between the archipelagos of Tonga, Fiji, and Samoa during the period between 1770 and 1870, that include the exchange in prestige valuables, military/political interactions, and marriages. Using the nested interaction net model of Chase-Dunn and Hall, this thesis analyzes the interactions in order to determine whether the interactions display systemic properties, that is to say whether the interactions are important in the social reproduction in each of the particular societal units of the region. The archival evidence shows that the region was an indigenous world-system, whereby  interactions served to maintain the stability of the system, which then as a result of European involvement in the region resulted in an increase of Tongan political domination, before the entire system was broken up and governed by different colonial powers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gabrielle  Sutherland•  3  Historical Institutionalism, Public Policy Analysis, World-Systems TheoryConversion, Layering, and Drift in the Development of Dutch Construction PolicyA more recent version of this paper has appeared as "Different but equally plausible narratives of policy change: A plea for theoretical pluralism" in the International Journal of Political Science. A working paper version of that article... moreA more recent version of this paper has appeared as "Different but equally plausible narratives of policy change: A plea for theoretical pluralism" in the International Journal of Political Science. A working paper version of that article is available from my academia.edu webpage.  "In analyzing policy transformation broadly two forms of change are considered: abrupt change, and slow and steady change. The first has focal attention in punctuated equilibrium literature, the latter in ‘incrementalitsts’ literature. This paper addresses the work of a leading scholar in the incrementalists literature: Kathleen Thelen. It does so by applying her theorizing on a case of policy change that from a distance appears a cold case punctured equilibrium. It finds that a closer look however provides a different understanding of the policy change traced. Yet, it questions however the value of this different approach as it, although bringing in more detail and providing a thicker description, still is backward looking and thus strongly depends on the selection process of the analyst of what to include in telling the story and what not. The incrementalists approach nevertheless seems valuable as it may provide some guides for explaining when, where and why to expect policy change."Save to LibraryDownloadby Jeroen  van der Heijden•Historical InstitutionalismIntegration durch Konsultation? Konsensbildung in der Migrations- und Integrationspolitik in Deutschland und den Niederlanden.Save to LibraryDownloadby Elisabeth Musch•  9  Consultation, Historical Institutionalism, Path Dependency, Neo CorporatismTHE CHINESE EXAMINATION INTERREGNUM: Civil Service Testing in China Before and After ‘The Century of Humiliation’Save to LibraryDownloadby Nolan Bensen•  13  Marxism, Modernization, Historical Institutionalism, Elites (Political Science)Data Transfers after Schrems II: The EU-US Disagreements over Data Privacy and National SecurityIn the long-awaited Schrems II decision, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) took a radical, although not an unexpected, step in invalidating the Privacy Shield Agreement, which facilitated data transfers between the... moreIn the long-awaited Schrems II decision, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) took a radical, although not an unexpected, step in invalidating the Privacy Shield Agreement, which facilitated data transfers between the European Union and the United States. Schrems II illuminates long-lasting international disagreements between the EU and the United States over data protection, national security, and the fundamental differences between the public and private approaches to the protection of human rights in the data-driven economy and modern state. This Article approaches the decision via an interdisciplinary lens of international law and VANDERBILT JOURNAL OF TRANSNATIONAL LAW [VOL. 55:1041international relations and situates it in a broader historical context. In particular, I rely on the historical institutionalist approach, which emphasizes the importance of time and timing (also called sequencing) as well as institutional preferences of different actors to demonstrate that the Schrems II decision further solidifies and cements CJEU’s principled approach to data protection, rejecting data securitization and surveillance in the post-Snowden era. Schrems II aims to rebalance the terms of international cooperation in data sharing across the Atlantic and beyond. It is the outcome that US tech companies and the government feared. Yet, they are not the only actors displeased with the decision. An institutionalist emphasis illuminates that the EU is not a monolithic block, and that the Schrems II outcome is also contrary to the strategy and preferences of the EU Commission. The invalidation of the Privacy Shield will now (again) require either a reorientation of EU policy and priorities or an accommodation of the institutional preferences of its powerful political ally––the United States. The CJEU decision runs counter to the European Data Strategy and places a $7.1 trillion transatlantic economic relationship at risk. Historical institutional analysis suggests that structural changes in the US legal system to address the inadequacies in the Schrems II judgment are unlikely. Therefore, the EU Commission will act quickly to create a solution––another quick, contractual “fix”––to accommodate US exceptionalism and gloss over the decades of disagreement between the EU and United States over data protection, national security, and privacy. When two powerful actors are unwilling to change their institutional preferences, “contracting out” the protection of human rights in international law is the most convenient option.Save to LibraryDownloadby Monika Zalnieriute•  7  International Relations, International Law, Privacy, Historical InstitutionalismHüten, richten, gründen: Rollen der Verfassungsgerichte in der Demokratisierung Deutschlands und Ungarns [Guardians, Umpires, Founders: Roles of Constitutional Courts in the Democratization of Germany and Hungary]In recent years, democratization research has increasingly emphasized the role of constitutional courts in the transformation of formerly authoritarian countries towards democracy. Only rarely do these studies explore the question of what... moreIn recent years, democratization research has increasingly emphasized the role of constitutional courts in the transformation of formerly authoritarian countries towards democracy. Only rarely do these studies explore the question of what it means in a socio-political context for an institution to ‘play a role’. In addition, the term ‘role’ is often used synonymously with ‘function’, even though both concepts originate from very different social science traditions. From a socio-legal perspective, this book aims to unearth the potential of role theory for democratization studies and comparative research on constitutional courts. The focus of the study is not the well-known normative question of whether and to what extent courts have the legitimacy to intervene in the democratic process. Instead, the debates surrounding that question are viewed as the empirical context in which processes of attribution of legitimacy take place and in which constitutional courts act as the bearer of roles, communicating with different kinds of audiences (legal academia, politics, civil society, and international actors).Based on sociological role theory and historical-sociological new institutionalism, in the tradition of Max Weber, the book develops an ‘ideal type’ framework of analysis intended to connect with the debates in legal scholarship. This heuristic framework aims to establish empirical points of reference to assess whether and to what extent constitutional courts act as ‘guardians’ of predetermined constitutional rules, manage and decide social and political conflicts as ‘umpires’, or define the values of the legal-political community in the role of ‘founder’. This analytical approach is then applied to two cases of newly-founded constitutional courts in democratizing political systems: the German Federal Constitutional Court in post-fascist Germany during the period 1952-1961, and the Hungarian Constitutional Court in the period of post-Communist transformation between 1990 and 1995. The focus of each case study is the constitutional court’s most highly controversial cases, their socio-political context, and the reactions of the court’s main audiences. The case studies show that the role of ‘guardian’, which according to legal scholarship is the main role of constitutional courts, played mostly in the background. In most cases, the courts acted as umpires or founders. In the light of this finding, the remainder of the study engages in a comparative analysis of the development of the constitutional court system in both countries. It seeks to explain the partial disempowerment of the Hungarian court in 2010-11; a situation that, despite many conflicts between politics and the court, has not been experienced in Germany.A printed version of the book can be obtained here: https://www.epubli.de/shop/buch/32786In der Demokratisierungsliteratur wird zunehmend auf die Rolle der Verfassungsgerichte in demokratischen Systemtransformationen hingewiesen. Selten wird die Frage theoretisch expliziert, was es eigentlich heißt, wenn eine Institution in einem gesellschaftlichen Kontext „eine Rolle spielt“. Zudem wird der Begriff der Rolle oftmals synonym mit dem der „Funktion“ verwendet, obwohl beide Begriffe aus sehr unterschiedlichen sozialwissenschaftlichen Theorietraditionen stammen.Diese Arbeit versucht aus politikwissenschaftlicher und rechtssoziologischer Perspektive, den Rollenbegriff für die Demokratisierungsforschung und die vergleichende Verfassungsgerichtsforschung fruchtbar zu machen. Dabei steht nicht die schon oft diskutierte, normative Frage im Vordergrund, ob und wie stark die Verfassungsgerichte in den Prozess demokratischer Gesetzgebung eingreifen sollen. Stattdessen werden die Debatten über diese Frage als empirischer Kontext von Prozessen der Legitimitätszuschreibung verstanden, in denen die Gerichte als Rollenträger auftreten, die mit verschiedenen Arten von Publikum (Rechtswissenschaft, Politik, Zivilgesellschaft, internationale Akteure) – hier als Teilöffentlichkeiten bezeichnet – kommunizieren.Angelehnt an die soziologische Rollentheorie und auf der Grundlage des historisch-soziologischen Neoinstitutionalismus wird, in Anschluss an die Max Webersche Theorietradition, ein idealtypisches Untersuchungsraster entwickelt, das an rechtswissenschaftliche Debatten anschlussfähig sein soll: Dieses heuristische Raster will empirische Anknüpfungspunkte dafür geben, ob und inwieweit Verfassungsgerichte als „Hüter“ von vorgegebenen Verfassungsnormen auftreten, wann sie als „Schiedsrichter“ von politischen und gesellschaftlichen Konflikten tätig werden, und wann sie als „Gründer“ die Werte einer rechtlich-politischen Gemeinschaft definieren. Dieser Ansatz wird dann auf zwei Fälle von neugegründeten Verfassungsgerichten in sich demokratisierenden politischen Systemen zur Anwendung gebracht: den Fall des Bundesverfassungsgerichts im postfaschistischen Deutschland (Untersuchungszeitraum: 1952-1961) und den Fall des ungarischen Verfassungsgerichtshofs, der vor dem Hintergrund der postkommunistischen Systemtransformation agierte (Untersuchungszeitraum: 1990-1995). Untersucht werden vor allem hochkontroverse Urteile, ihr gesellschaftlicher Kontext und die Reaktionen der Teilöffentlichkeiten. Ergebnis der Analyse ist, dass die von der Rechtswissenschaft vorrangig postulierte „Hüterrolle“ des Gerichts eher im Verborgenen gespielt wurde. In den meisten Fällen trat das Gericht als Schiedsrichter und Gründer auf. Darauf aufbauend wird die Entwicklung der Verfassungsgerichtsbarkeit bis heute vergleichend analysiert und danach gefragt, wie sich die Teilentmachtung des ungarischen Verfassungsgerichts im Jahr 2010/2011 erklären lässt, die – trotz zahlreicher Konflikte zwischen Bundesverfassungsgericht und Politik – in Deutschland bisher keine Entsprechung gefunden hat.Eine gedruckte Fassung des Buches ist hier erhältlich: https://www.epubli.de/shop/buch/32786Rezensionen:-------------------Robert Chr. van Ooyen, in: Portal für Politikwissenschaft, http://pw-portal.de/rezension/37365 (veröffentlicht am 31.07.2014): Nach van Ooyen bietet die Arbeit ein "ausgezeichnetes mehrdimensionales Analyseraster, das auf Richterpersönlichkeiten / Richterverhalten, Regierungssystem, Öffentlichkeit und historische Mentalitäten abstellt"Herbert Küpper, in: Jahrbuch Ostrecht 1/2014, S. 203: "eine für Juristen ebenso interessante wie erkenntnisreiche Erweiterung der klassischen rechtswissenschaftlichenPerspektive auf die Verfassungsgerichtsbarkeit."Péter Sólyom, Zeitschrift für Rechtssoziologie: https://www.academia.edu/24793572Save to LibraryDownloadby Christian Boulanger•  11  Sociology of Law, Democratization, Law and Politics, Historical InstitutionalismA Theory of Critical Junctures for Democratization: A Comparative Examination of Constitution-Making in Egypt and TunisiaMost studies on constitution-making emphasize how cultural and institutional characteristics independently impact successful democratic transitions. This article proposes a new approach to theorizing this process, positing that the... moreMost studies on constitution-making emphasize how cultural and institutional characteristics independently impact successful democratic transitions. This article proposes a new approach to theorizing this process, positing that the character of institutional and cultural elements and the relationships between them give rise to a unique temporal and political context called a critical juncture, with qualities and characteristics that place some states on trajectories toward success and others toward failure. By analyzing and comparing the events surrounding the Egyptian and Tunisian transitions, we demonstrate how the placement of these institutional and cultural elements put Tunisia on the path to democratization and led Egypt inevitably toward autocracy. The findings show that, where these junctures fail to instill civic ideals and avenues for all parties' participation, the political environment becomes uninhabitable for successful transition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Amal Jamal and +1Anna Kensicki•  5  Comparative Constitutional Law, Historical Institutionalism, Egypt, TunisiaNextLast »Related TopicsNew InstitutionalismFollowFollowingInstitutional ChangeFollowFollowingInstitutional TheoryFollowFollowingComparative PoliticsFollowFollowingSociological institutionalismFollowFollowingInstitutions (Political Science)FollowFollowingPolitical ScienceFollowFollowingComparative Political EconomyFollowFollowingPolitical EconomyFollowFollowingDemocratizationFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023