Bronfenbrenner Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Bronfenbrenner3,306 FollowersRecent papers in BronfenbrennerTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleTheory, Method, and Analysis: Necessary Interconnections in the Study of Children and FamiliesIn this article, we argue that there must be a clear and consistent connection in research between the theory that we use, the methods that we employ, and the way in which we analyze our data. This is true no matter what aspects of... moreIn this article, we argue that there must be a clear and consistent connection in research between the theory that we use, the methods that we employ, and the way in which we analyze our data. This is true no matter what aspects of children and families are being studied, although we study children and their families in different cultural contexts. The theoretical approach that we use is derived from Urie Bronfenbrenner’s recent writings. His theory is an ecological and systemic theory, forcing us to examine simultaneously aspects of the developing individual, aspects of the context (immediate, distal, and historical), the interactive processes that link the two and which foster development itself, and to follow that development over time. The research that the first author (Tudge) has been conducting with various colleagues over the past 10 years is the way in which we illustrate how this theory can be applied appropriately.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sherrill Hayes•  11  Human Ecology, Developmental Psychology, Family studies, Research MethodologyFraternities and Sororities: Developing a Compelling Case for Relevance in Higher EducationSave to LibraryDownloadby James P.  Barber•  5  Higher Education, College student development, Fraternities and sororities, Student LifeAdvancing the Use of Ecological Systems Theory in College Student Research: The Ecological Systems Interview ToolThis article illustrates how to create an interview protocol and process that leverages Bronfenbrenner's ecological systems model. In addition to providing the template, the authors also discuss the challenges and opportunities associated... moreThis article illustrates how to create an interview protocol and process that leverages Bronfenbrenner's ecological systems model. In addition to providing the template, the authors also discuss the challenges and opportunities associated with the Ecological Systems Interview Tool.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ronald Hallett•  7  Qualitative Methods, Social Systems Theory, Qualitative Research, In-depth InterviewsParental Socialization of Moral Behaviors in the Context of PovertySave to LibraryDownloadby Danielle Ochoa•  5  Moral Psychology, Poverty, Parenting, Filipino PsychologyEcological theory as a framework to develop the public health contribution of health visitingSave to LibraryDownloadby Flora Cornish•  5  Community Psychology, Public Health, Health Visiting Services, BronfenbrennerLGBTQ Experiences in Curricular ContextsThis chapter examines curricula as important microsystems for LGBTQ college students. The authors explore sociocultural influences on curricula and discuss strategies for creating positive curricular experiences for LGBTQ students.Save to LibraryDownloadby David J Nguyen•  3  Higher Education, Bronfenbrenner, LGBTQ studiesHow Chronic Violence Affects Human Development, Social Relations, and the Practice of Citizenship: A Systemic Framework for ActionWhat happens to us when it becomes “normal” everyday life to live with high levels of violence? How does it affect our development as individuals, how we raise our children and relate to others in society, our attitudes and actions as... moreWhat happens to us when it becomes “normal” everyday life to live with high levels of violence? How does it affect our development as individuals, how we raise our children and relate to others in society, our attitudes and actions as citizens, and the ways we are governed? This paper describes that living in such conditions affects our lives in myriad and systemic ways. Children fail to flourish; parents are often unable to nurture their children adequately and can turn against them; social relations between individuals and groups become more restricted, polarized, and conflictive; and our role as citizens or participants in the larger community suffers—as do the social support for democracy and the prospects for democratic governance.The Chronic Violence and Human Development Framework developed in this publication systematizes how chronic violence affects human, social, and civic development. It offers a new lens to help policymakers, social activists, scholars, and affected populations to recognize, understand, and approach a global challenge that is hidden in plain sight and that continues to worsen. Despite billions of dollars invested by international, national, and private institutions and organizations during recent decades in violence prevention and enhancing security, diverse forms of violence continue to grow. They contribute to growing levels of human suffering as well as to economic, social, and political instability and state fragility in many parts of the world.Save to LibraryDownloadby Latin American Program Wilson Center•  54  Education, Peace and Conflict Studies, Climate Change, Domestic ViolenceThe Influence of Authoritative Parenting on Academic AchievementWhy do some students consistently achieve high grades, while others do not? What are the underlining factors that could determine differences in development? Previous research has aimed to answer these questions in order to understand why... moreWhy do some students consistently achieve high grades, while others do not? What are the underlining factors that could determine differences in development? Previous research has aimed to answer these questions in order to understand why students achieve differently, even when subjected to the same classes and teachers (Zhang, 2001). In the past few decades, researchers have acknowledged parenting styles as a potential factor that could influence a child’s social, behavioural and psychological development (Ishak, Low, & Lau, 2011; Matestic, 2008; Myers, 2012; Turner, Chandler, & Heffer, 2009). This essay aims to relate and compare Bronfenbrenner’s microsystem and mesosystem stages, and Baumrind’s authoritative parenting typology, to explore how authoritative parenting may influence a child's academic achievement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Soraya Raeispour•  7  Parenting, Child Development, Lifespan Development, Academic achievementParental Socialization of Moral Behaviors in the Context of PovertySave to LibraryDownloadby Danielle Ochoa•  5  Moral Psychology, Poverty, Parenting, Filipino PsychologyEcological Determinants of Early Marriage Among Eastern Visayan YouthThis paper adopted an ecological approach to study early marriage among Eastern Visayan youth aged 15–24 years. Using data from the 2013 Young Adult Fertility and Sexuality Study, we examined selected individual characteristics and... moreThis paper adopted an ecological approach to study early marriage amongEastern Visayan youth aged 15–24 years. Using data from the 2013 YoungAdult Fertility and Sexuality Study, we examined selected individualcharacteristics and experiences as well as proximal and distal factors thatcould be associated with whether the youth have never been in a maritalunion, lived in before first formal marriage, or did not live in before formalmarriage. Bivariate analysis revealed that the respondents’ sex, age, attitude toward cohabitation, contraceptive use during premarital sex (PMS), parental living arrangement, primary raiser’s strictness, having same-sex friends with PMS experience, poverty, and perception of community acceptance of cohabitation were significantly related to their experience with early marriage. We also found no significant relationship between early marriage and the quality of the family relationship, discussion of sex at home, and education. Using marital union status (whether the youth had ever been married) as a dependent variable, we performed binary logistic regression and came up with three models starting with individual characteristics and experiences only(Model 1) and eventually adding proximal (Model 2) and distal factors(Model 3). Results show that previously significant variables such as attitude toward cohabitation and education turned out non-significant in the second and third models, respectively. We discuss the implications for research on early marriage as well as the need to come up with programs and policies for the youth if formal marriage is to remain the ideal marital setup.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pierce Docena and +1Maria Midea M. Kabamalan•  9  Cohabitation, Adolescent Sexuality, Marriage, BronfenbrennerBioecological Theory of Human DevelopmentThe bioecological theory of human development is a comprehensive theoretical and methodological model for the study of human development. Extending on earlier ecological models of development, the bioecological theory expounds on the... moreThe bioecological theory of human development is a comprehensive theoretical andmethodological model for the study of human development. Extending on earlier ecological models of development, the bioecological theory expounds on the biopsychological features of the “developing person” and on the capability for proximal processes to differentiate and actualize biological potential. The bioecological theory of human development has progressed through periodic revisions since its first comprehensive formulation in 1970 by one of the twentieth century’s most prominent developmental psychology theoretician, and Head Start co-founder, UrieBronfenbrenner (1917–2005). Bronfenbrenner envisioned that his bioecological theory be relevant for practice, science, and policy, by studying human development in real or realistic contexts. This entry in the Encyclopedia of Quality of Life and Well-Being Research provides details of the different systems of ecology and its impact on the developing person.Save to LibraryDownloadby Matthew Waugh•  20  Developmental Psychology, Social Sciences, Educational Psychology, Social-Ecological SystemsBronfenbrenner’s Ecological Systems Theory and Applications for ManagementAn analysis of Bronfenbrenner's Ecological Systems Theory with applications to management practice.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nat Skinner•  3  Management, Bronfenbrenner, Ecological Systems TheoryFraternities and Sororities: Developing a Compelling Case for Relevance in Higher EducationWith over 60 collective years of serving the fraternal movement as fraternity/sorority members, chapter advisors, fraternity/sorority life advisors, and (inter)national fraternal leaders, we approached writing about the experiences of... moreWith over 60 collective years of serving the fraternal movement as fraternity/sorority members, chapter advisors, fraternity/sorority life advisors, and (inter)national fraternal leaders, we approached writing about the experiences of college students who participate in fraternities and sororities from an affirming and positive perspective. We believe these distinctive and intergenerational organizations can provide a forum for college students to create meaningful, well-rounded, and learning-oriented experiences. Deep and long-standing challenges continue to exist, but the juxtaposition of the best and worst actions of today's college students make fraternities and sororities among the most complex organizations on college campuses. In addition, there is a high level of interaction between and among students, the campus community, administrators, faculty, alumni, and external stakeholders such as parents and (inter)national fraternity/sorority headquarters. Such dynamic experiences can create shared and distinctive realities for students that are integral to student development. This chapter provides insight into the historical and modern-day complexities that affect students' experiences in fraternities and sororities and offers a framework for working with this population across contexts.Save to LibraryDownloadby James P.  Barber and +1Daniel  Bureau•  6  Higher Education, College student development, Student Affairs, Fraternities and sororitiesEcological approaches to literacy researchEcological approaches to literacy research encompass both person-centred and system- centred perspectives and can be mobilised from both positivist and postmodern epistemological stances. This research handbook chapter presents an... moreEcological approaches to literacy research encompass both person-centred and system- centred perspectives and can be mobilised from both positivist and postmodern epistemological stances. This research handbook chapter presents an explanation and discussion of theoretical and methodological aspects of ecological research in literacy and language. Conceptual tools discussed include nested systems, time scales, storied worlds, linguistic landscapes and actor networks.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sue Nichols•  4  Literacy, Actor Network Theory, Social-Ecological Systems, BronfenbrennerIncluding LGBT Parented Families in Schools: Research to Inform Policy and Practice. Routledge: London and New York. ISBN: 978-0-367–76501-9 (hbk); ISBN: 978-0-367–76500-2 (pbk); ISBN: 978-1-003–16747-1 (ebk); DOI: 10.4324/9781003167471.This book explores the experiences of LGBTQ+ parented families in school communities and provides a voice for this overlooked group who are becoming an increasingly common form of family diversity in school communities. Approaching the... moreThis book explores the experiences of LGBTQ+ parented families in school communities and provides a voice for this overlooked group who are becoming an increasingly common form of family diversity in school communities. Approaching the topic from a strength-based psychological perspective, the book presents LGBTQ+ parents' suggestions for school improvements and supportive structures and provides empirical evidence to inform future LGBTQ+ inclusive education policy. Research-based yet practically focused, it will be a valuable resource for researchers, students and education professionals alike.Mann, T. & Jones, T. (2022). Including LGBT Parented Families in Schools: Research to Inform Policy and Practice. Routledge: London and New York. ISBN: 978-0-367–76501-9 (hbk); ISBN: 978-0-367–76500-2 (pbk); ISBN: 978-1-003–16747-1 (ebk); DOI: 10.4324/9781003167471.   Pre-order: https://www.routledge.com/Including-LGBT-Parented-Families-in-Schools-Research-to-Inform-Policy-and/Jones-Mann/p/book/9780367765019  Preview: file:///E:/AT%20UNI/CURRENT%20PUBLISHING/2021%20Trent%20parents%20book/2021%20Mann%20Jones%20LGBT%20Parented%20preview.pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Tiffany Jones and +1Trent Mann•  12  Social Psychology, Health Sciences, Gender Studies, EducationDesigning a Child-Centred, Quantitative Measure of Inter-Ethnic Relations: A Mixed Methods ApproachThe main objective of this PhD dissertation was to design and validate a broad and coherent, child-centred quantitative measure of inter-ethnic relations. A two-stage, mixed methods design was employed to construct and evaluate the... moreThe main objective of this PhD dissertation was to design and validate a broad and coherent, child-centred quantitative measure of inter-ethnic relations. A two-stage, mixed methods design was employed to construct and evaluate the measure. Phase one consisted of a qualitative pre-test of potential items using cognitive interviewing with 35 children in three primary schools. Phase two involved a pilot administration of the measure to 208 children ranging in age from 8-11 in five primary schools. Non-parametric item response theory (NIRT) analyses led to the development of five, sensitive and reliable measure of inter-ethnic relations. Robust validity was further built through criterion testing, predicted group outcomes, and testing associations between the new scales and widely established outcome measures of mental well-being. Preliminary findings demonstrated the presence of social separateness, drawn along ethnic lines. Also, there were reports of ethnic bullying in all schools, a specific strain of aggressive behavior that targets a child's country of origin, skin colour, language, religion, or ethnicity. Exposure to ethnic bullying and feelings of perceived discrimination were associated with poor mental health outcomes including depressive symptoms and anxiety. The new measures are particularly suited for practical application by teachers, school administrators, and social researchers. It is suggested that the measure be used by school personnel to assess local bullying behaviour.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kate Babineau•  11  Mixed Methods, Migration, Item Response Theory, Race and EthnicityKertas Kerja Pendidikan- Pelaksanaan Pendidikan Jarak Jauh di Masa Pandemi COVID 19Pendidikan Jarak Jauh (PJJ) menjadi strategi pilihan untuk memastikan keberlanjutan pendidikan siswa/i Indonesia selama masa pandemi Covid-19. Keputusan ini diambil oleh sejumlah kementerian dan lembaga terkait, dengan Kementerian... morePendidikan Jarak Jauh (PJJ) menjadi strategi pilihan untuk memastikan keberlanjutan pendidikan siswa/i Indonesia selama masa pandemi Covid-19. Keputusan ini diambil oleh sejumlah kementerian dan lembaga terkait, dengan Kementerian Pendidikan dan Kebudayaan (Kemendikbud) sebagai leading sector pada isu ini.  Berbagai strategi penunjang lainnya ditetapkan untuk mendukung keberhasilan kebijakan PJJ, khususnya dukungan finansial seperti fleksibilitas untuk menggunakan Dana Bantuan Operasional Sekolah dan Penyelenggaraan di masa kedaruratan COVID-19; serta penyesuaian Uang Kuliah Tunggal (UKT) dan bantuan dana melalui Kartu Indonesia Pintar (KIP). Dalam perkembangannya, pelaksanaan PJJ lebih lanjut menuntut penyesuaian lainnya seperti pemilahan zona kerentanan sekolah, adaptasi kurikulum darurat, hingga pembekalan stakeholder pendidikan berbentuk modul-modul pendamping untuk guru, siswa dan orang tua. Seluruh strategi sebelumnya menekankan pada ketersediaan akses terhadap sumber belajar. Hanya saja, strategi perihal mutu pembelajaran dalam PJJ masih membutuhkan kajian lebih lanjut. Tulisan ini menelaah berbagai upaya yang dapat dilakukan agar mutu pembelajaran PJJ dapat ditingkatkan, secara khusus pada jenjang pendidikan dasar-menengah dan jenjang pendidikan tinggi. Kertas kerja ini disusun dengan pendekatan kajian pustaka (desk review) terhadap sumber-sumber sekunder, dengan kerangka teori Ekologikal dari Bronfenbrenner. Melalui kajian yang dilakukan, dihasilkan sejumlah rekomendasi mengenai penerapan kebijakan PJJ di Indonesia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Christ Billy Aryanto and +1Shahnaz Safitri•  5  Online Learning, Bronfenbrenner, Mental Health in Educational Context, Teaching effectivenessScholarly discussions in response to 'Alternative Education and finding someone who is crazy about you'Alternative education provides learners, teachers, schools, and communities with disengaged young people with a rare opportunity to rethink, reimagine and reform the way that learners can own and manage the ecosystem that leads to their... moreAlternative education provides learners, teachers, schools, and communities with disengaged young people with a rare opportunity to rethink, reimagine and reform the way that learners can own and manage the ecosystem that leads to their success (context, process, time, and people - including themselves at the center). When educators make curriculum decisions it is beneficial to have a guiding set of pillars, as Tipu Whare does, to ensure the time and funding available is directed towards learning experiences that support the pillars of belonging, mastery, independence, and generosity. When schools and communities appoint teachers to work with disengaged young people, the educators must be passionate individuals who have a history of being crazy about their students, willing to be engaging and committed to a student-first perspective. This is not an easy path, but as demonstrated by Nga Tamaiti Rangatira (Children of Chiefs) it is a worthwhile endeavor.Save to LibraryDownloadby Craig Trevor Hansen•  10  Pierre Bourdieu, Social Responsibility, Personalized Learning Environment, TruancyHabilidades sociais e o modelo bioecológico do desenvolvimento humano: Análise e perspectivasRESUMO Este artigo analisa possíveis relações entre o campo teórico-prático das Habilidades Sociais (HS) e o Modelo Bioecológico do Desenvolvimento Humano (MBDH). Para isso, descreve e relaciona os pressupostos e conceitos-chave de cada... moreRESUMO Este artigo analisa possíveis relações entre o campo teórico-prático das Habilidades Sociais (HS) e o Modelo Bioecológico do Desenvolvimento Humano (MBDH). Para isso, descreve e relaciona os pressupostos e conceitos-chave de cada um, focalizando as contribuições da perspectiva bioecológica para o estudo do desenvolvimento das habilidades sociais. Defende-se o MBDH como uma alternativa teórico-metodológica que se aproxima de alguns conceitos vinculados a uma vertente teórica relacionada do campo das HS e do Treinamento de Habilidades Sociais (THS). Embora se reconheçam os limites e desafios da presente proposta, entende-se que ela tem o mérito de fomentar novas possibilidades de pesquisa e de prática em trabalhos que contemplem as relações interpessoais e as HS ao longo do ciclo vital. Palavras-chave: Habilidades sociais, modelo bioecológico, desenvolvimento humano. RESUMEN Este artículo analiza las posibles relaciones entre el campo teórico y práctico de las habilidades sociales (HS) y el Modelo Bioecológico de Desarrollo Humano (MBDH). Para ello, describe y enumera los supuestos y conceptos clave de cada uno, centrándose en las contribuciones de la perspectiva bioecológica para el estudio del desarrollo de habilidades sociales. Sostiene el MBDH como una alternativa teórico-metodológica que se acerca de algunos conceptos vinculados a un enfoque teórico relacionado del campo de las HS y Entrenamiento en Habilidades Sociales (EHS). A pesar de que reconocen los límites y desafíos de esta propuesta, se entiende que tiene el mérito de promover nuevas oportunidades para la investigación y la práctica en las obras que abordan las relaciones interpersonales y el HS a lo largo del ciclo de vida. ABSTRACT This article examines possible relationships between the theoretical and practical of Social Skills (SS) and Bioecological Model of Human Development (BMHD). The study describes and lists the assumptions and key concepts of each, focusing on the contributions of bio-ecological approach to study the development of social skills. It is argued the BMHD as an alternative theoretical and methodological approach of some concepts linked to the theoretical of SS, and Social Skills Training (SST). Although recognizing the limits and challenges of this proposal means that it has the merit of promoting new opportunities for research and practice in works that address the interpersonal relationships and the SS over the life cycle.Save to LibraryDownloadby Zilda  Del Prette•  19  Psychology, Developmental Psychology, Development Studies, Ecological PsychologyRethinking the Classroom Landscape: Creating Environments that Connect Young Children, Families, and CommunitiesBased on the theories of Urie Bronfenbrenner, this book invites educators to rethink the design of classroom environments and to consider the importance of communities, neighborhoods, geography, topography, and culture when creating... moreBased on the theories of Urie Bronfenbrenner, this book invites educators to rethink the design of classroom environments and to consider the importance of communities, neighborhoods, geography, topography, and culture when creating spaces for young children.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sandra Duncan•  10  Early Childhood Education, Interior Design, Learning environments, Early Childhood Care and EducationAikaterini Venianaki, Eleni Timplalexi, Manolis Dafermos (2021). The medicalisation of learning difficulties through the prism of Bronfenbrenner’s bioecological approach: the case of the remote and mountainous areas of Chania Prefecture. OUTLINES. CRITICAL PRACTICE STUDIES, 22 ( 01), 138-180.The purpose of this study is to look into the function of the medicalisation of learning difficulties and its impacts in the case of the remote and mountainous areas in Chania Prefecture, Crete, through the prism of Bronfenbrenner's... moreThe purpose of this study is to look into the function of the medicalisation of learning difficulties and its impacts in the case of the remote and mountainous areas in Chania Prefecture, Crete, through the prism of Bronfenbrenner's bioecological approach. Educational documents, archives, newspapers, and laws are examined, and six semi-structured interviews are conducted and analysed. Thematic analysis resulted in two main themes: a. the differentiated environment in remote and mountainous areas and b. the medicalisation of learning difficulties, as an ''inflation'' phenomenon with a positive stigma. It also appears that the medicalisation of learning difficulties acts as a way of silencing environmental dimensions, and imposes an obstacle to detecting the deeper systemic, social, economic and political causes of these difficulties, especially in light of the consequences of the socioeconomic crisis in GreeceSave to LibraryDownloadby Manolis Dafermos•  2  Learning Difficulties, BronfenbrennerNiño.Emergencia y transformación de expresiones de masculinidades diversas en activistas de tres ciudades colombianasEn este trabajo de grado se aborda la emergencia de masculinidades diversas en activistas del movimiento LGTBIQ+, en un diálogo de frontera entre el modelo bio-ecológico del desarrollo humano, el pensamiento narrativo y los estudios... moreEn este trabajo de grado se aborda la emergencia de masculinidades diversas en activistas del movimiento LGTBIQ+, en un diálogo de frontera entre el modelo bio-ecológico del desarrollo humano, el pensamiento narrativo y los estudios Queer. Se adoptaron como referentes metodológicos los estudios de caso, el TEM y las narrativas. En los resultados sobresalen las diversas formas como las masculinidades diversas emergieron de manera diferencial en los diferentes contextos donde participaron, siendo algunos de estos potencializadores, y otros se volvieron obstáculos que requirieron ciertas acciones  y adaptaciones. También se concluye que el género emerge de manera discontinua, fluida, variada y en un diálogo performativo con los contextos donde las personas participan a lo largo de su vida, y que por ende su vivencia obedece a construcciones identitarias y sociales, y no a factores biológicos, que si bien aparecen en los procesos de transformaciones identitarias, no resultan determinantes. Reconocer esta variabilidad y el legítimo derecho a ejercerla, abona terreno en la defensa de los Derechos Humanos desde diferentes frentes incluidos la academia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jose Alejandro Niño Vásquez•  18  Masculinity Studies, Masculinity, Context, Judith ButlerSCHOOL MATERIAL RESOURCES AND STUDENT READING ACHIEVEMENT IN THE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES: PISA 2018 data through the lens of Ecological Systems TheoryAim: This study aimed to 1) identify differences in overall student reading achievement in the UAE based on student gender, 2) determine if there is school material resource inequity in the UAE based on school location or school type, and... moreAim:This study aimed to 1) identify differences in overall student reading achievement in the UAE based on student gender, 2) determine if there is school material resource inequity in the UAE based on school location or school type, and 3) measure the effects of school material resources on student reading achievement in the UAE while controlling for other variables.Theory:The theoretical framework used for this study is Bronfenbrenner’s Ecological Systems Theory including the Process-Person-Context-Time model.Method:Statistical analyses using UAE’s PISA 2018 data included t-test, principal component analysis, PLUM ordinal regression, and two-level hierarchical linear modeling.Results:This study joins a small but growing amount of research focused on using data such as PISA’s to better understand the UAE educational system and perhaps to help further its reforms. Findings include: Girls outperformed boys in reading achievement in the UAE. As for material resource inequity based on school type, co-ed schools were more likely than either of the single-sex school types to report that their school’s capacity to enhance learning and teaching using digital devices was sufficient. However, co-ed schools were also more likely to report that their school’s capacity to provide instruction was hindered due to the quantity/quality of the material resources when compared to either of the single-sex schools. While almost all of the relationships in the regressions were statistically significant (school type, emirate, and school urbanization level), both models did a poor job of fitting the data. Finally, of the two school material resources indices used in this study, the school materials index was not related to reading achievement, but the school digital devices index was a significant predictor of student reading achievement. Every unit increase in the index corresponded to a 9.069 increase in the predicted reading achievement score. Although the included variables reduced the variance, some unaccounted variance remains.Save to LibraryDownloadby Linda Gogliotti•  7  Gender and education, Programme for International Students Assessment (PISA), Bronfenbrenner, Ecological Systems TheoryTaking Up the Locomotive Role in an International Non-cooperative Context and the Problem of Time Inconsistency of Relative Locomotive PowerSave to LibraryDownloadby Philippe De Lombaerde•  4  International Macroeconomics, Bronfenbrenner, Policy Coordination, Economics BusinessEvaluación de dos experiencias de educación compensatoria a través del enfoque bioecológico del desarrolloSave to LibraryDownloadby Viviana Gómez Nocetti•  2  Bronfenbrenner, Compensatory EducationAdvancing the Use of Ecological Systems Theory in College Student Research: The Ecological Systems Interview ToolStudents navigate complex educational eco­ systems and, in the process, engage in inter­ actions that influence their college experiences, development, and outcomes. They traverse educational environments that include, but extend beyond,... moreStudents navigate complex educational eco­ systems and, in the process, engage in inter­ actions that influence their college experiences, development, and outcomes. They traverse educational environments that include, but extend beyond, the college campus. Family, friends, and community influence college access, transition, and engagement (Astin, 1993; Renn &amp; Reason, 2012). Teachers from high school play important roles in shaping whether students enroll (Engberg &amp; Wolniak, 2010), and instructors in college influence whether they persist (Astin, 1993; Renn &amp; Reason, 2012). Educational administrators, policymakers, and advocates set the contexts within which students navigate education systems (Renn &amp; Arnold, 2003; Renn &amp; Reason, 2012). Understanding students’ relationships with their multiple home, community, and educational environments provides a more holistic understanding of students and recognizes that many spheres of influence shape their college experiences, development, and outcomes. Ecological Systems Theory (EST) directs higher education researchers and practi tioners to examine students in their educa tional eco sys tems. Within EST, the interactions between students and their contexts shape their educational experiences and development (Bronfenbrenner, 1994; Renn, 2003). Bronfenbrenner (1979, 1994) argued that humans actively engage within evolving, interconnected, nested environments. He believed that human experience is best understood holistically. While predominant college impact theories (e.g., Astin, 1993; Tinto, 1993) similarly direct attention to the role of environment and students’ interactions with their environment, EST extends this tradition by taking a more holistic and systems­based approach. Many in higher education appreciate the comprehensive and integrated approach of EST as a way to more fully understand students’ college experiences (Renn, 2003; Renn &amp; Arnold, 2003). However, the complexity of implementing EST has limited its use, and there are few effective tools for gathering this kind of information. In this research brief, we share a qualitative interview protocol we designed to facilitate application of EST to understand students’ ecological systems and their interactions with those systems. A thorough discussion of EST is beyond the scope of this brief (see Renn, 2003, for a fuller explanation). Here, we summarize the core aspects of the model developed bySave to Libraryby Ronald Hallett•  9  Psychology, Qualitative Methods, Social Systems Theory, Qualitative ResearchModelo ecológico de los factores asociados a la violencia de género en parejas adolescentes Ecological model of factors associated with dating violenceGender violence in teen dating (VPA henceforth) refers to repeated abusive behavior exerts a teenage boy against a girl that maintains or has maintained a relationship with the intention to exercise dominion and control over the girl... moreGender violence in teen dating (VPA henceforth) refers to repeated abusive behavior exerts a teenage boy against a girl that maintains or has maintained a relationship with the intention to exercise dominion and control over the girl and the relationship. This behavior is classified into four types of agression: physical, psychological,  sexual  and  economic.  Recent  research  makes  visible  a  reality  that  affects  millions  of women worldwide and helps understand the mechanisms of partner violence. One of the most important findings  of  this  research  has  indicated  that  the  source  of  this  violence  comes  from  the  first  couple relationship during adolescence. The dynamics of violent relationship established between pairs of young teens  seem  to  have  explanatory  multi-causal  origins.  The  ecological  model  of  factors  associated  with domestic  violence  in  teen  dating  provides  an  adequate  explanatory  framework  for  research  work, intervention and prevention in this field. The involvement of teachers and parents in prevention programs and the development of multidisciplinary intervention programs throughout  the process to help prevent adolescents who begin a relationship with a violent partner from a different background. Moreover,  an increased sensitivity of the media towards this reality would encourage a shift towards more egalitarian and less discriminatory behaviors in roles and beliefs that exist between boys and girls when they start their first relationship.Save to LibraryDownloadby Belén  Martinez-Ferrer and +1Amapola Povedano Díaz•  5  Gender, Bronfenbrenner, Dating Violence, Teen Dating ViolenceWhat promotes adolescents' sense of school belonging? Students and teachers' convergent and divergent viewsIn this study, which endeavored to identify school climate factors and their influence on adolescent students’ feelings of school belonging, it became evident that a new conceptualization thereof is needed. Quantitative data from 443 male... moreIn this study, which endeavored to identify school climate factors and their influence on adolescent students’ feelings of school belonging, it became evident that a new conceptualization thereof is needed. Quantitative data from 443 male and female 11th graders and 264 of their teachers and qualitative data from 16 students and eight of their teachers in Al Ain public school district were collected. The findings revealed that adolescents perceived parental involvement, classroom practices, teacher-student relationships, safety and school social practices, and peer relationships in novel and different ways to their teachers. Various factors including parental involvement, teacher-student relationships, and classroom practices were viewed as unimportant in promoting student belonging. The adolescents appeared to be more concerned with safety and school social life and peer relationships. The findings are significant for policymakers and practitioners in their quest to improve the educational experiences of adolescent students and facilitate their psycho-social developmentSave to LibraryDownloadby wafaa el zaatari•  10  Teacher-Student Relationship, Peer Relations, Parental Involvement in Education, School ClimateTowards A Critical Sociology of the ‘Goals of Education’ within Early Childhood Education and Care in IrelandThis essay explores what the goals of Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) are from contradictory and complementary, statutory and academic, points of view. First, a brief explanation of ECEC will be given. Then the “goals of... moreThis essay explores what the goals of Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) are from contradictory and complementary, statutory and academic, points of view.  First, a brief explanation of ECEC will be given. Then the “goals of education”, particularly from an ECEC viewpoint, will be explored from both a policy perspective and an academic perspective.  The main questions asked are: What are the current goals of education in Ireland? What informs the goals of ECEC in Ireland? What other perspectives are there? These questions will form the basis of exploration for this essay.Finally, an alternate proposal for the goals of education will be given; offering what might be seen as a holistic, ecological or cosmic approach for ECEC that would benefit not only human beings but emphasise the importance of respecting all life universally. The crucial proposition offered here is, could this alternate perspective provide all stakeholders with the most universally prosperous starting point for what the goals of, not only ECEC, but, any curriculum or education framework could be?But now, after decades of research, we have come to see that children are human beings whose lives have been warped by those who have given them their life and substance and by the society of adults around them.  (Maria Montessori, 1972, p. 1)While it might be presumed that the above quote was that of a modern day 21st century researcher dwelling on the current economically driven world we live in, it was in fact made by Maria Montessori almost seventy years ago in her seminal work, The Secret of Childhood.  It must be asked, as an international society has the world progressed as much as it would like to think?Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrew Dineen•  13  Curriculum Design, Academic curriculum, Early Childhood Education, Ivan IllichYoung children's understandings and experiences of parental deployment within an Australian Defence Force familySave to LibraryDownloadby Marg  Rogers•  20  Sociology, Narrative, Children and Families, Military FamiliesOpinião pública e psicoterapeutas: convergências e divergências intencionais.Objetivos: encontrar pontos de convergência e de divergência entre a opinião pública e os psicoterapeutas, a fim de ampliar a adesão terapêutica. Métodos: com um inquérito online obtiveram-se intencionalidades (n = 32) de psicoterapeutas... moreObjetivos: encontrar pontos de convergência e de divergência entre a opinião pública e os psicoterapeutas, a fim de ampliar a adesão terapêutica. Métodos: com um inquérito online obtiveram-se intencionalidades (n = 32) de psicoterapeutas (sobre as consultas de psicologia) que foram comparadas com as da opinião pública (n = 30; obtidas num estudo anterior) através do método fenomenológico de investigação em psicologia, de uma codificação temática e de uma abordagem quantitativa. Resultados: há convergência na importância atribuída a 4 dimensões inerentes às consultas, bem como para com a inclusão da psicologia positiva de forma complementar na psicoterapia; ambos os grupos fazem uma maioria de atribuições causais externas para com a baixa adesão terapêutica e divergem quanto a uma abordagem psicoterapêutica exclusivamente positiva. Conclusões: será importante uma reflexão sobre o que pode melhorar internamente na psicologia e salienta-se a necessidade de haver uma intervenção macrossistémica sobre o estigma associado à psicologia.---------------------------------------Objectives: find points of convergence and divergence between public opinion and psychotherapists in order to increase the therapeutic adhesion. Methods: an online survey obtained the intentionalities (n = 32) of psychotherapists (about psychology consultations) which were compared with the ones from the public’s opinion (n = 30, obtained in a previous study) using the phenomenological psychological method of research, a thematic coding and a quantitative approach. Results: there is convergence on the importance attributed to four dimensions inherent to the consultations, as well as with the inclusion of positive psychology in a complementary way in psychotherapy; both groups make a majority of external causal attributions towards the low therapeutic adhesion and differ as to an exclusively positive psychotherapeutic approach. Conclusions: it seems to be important to reflect on what can improve internally in psychology and is highlighted the need for a macrosystemic intervention on the stigma associated with psychology.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sandra Ramos and  Jorge A. Ramos•  20  Positive Psychology, Public Opinion, Psychotherapy, Public Opinion ResearchA practical guide to conduct research in schools in Malta: Reflections, implications and suggestionsThis paper serves as a practical guide to conduct research in schools and educational settings. In particular, it focuses on the small island state of Malta as a case study in the light of Bronfenbrenner’s (1979) ecological systems... moreThis paper serves as a practical guide to conduct research in schools and educational settings. In particular, it focuses on the small island state of Malta as a case study in the light of Bronfenbrenner’s (1979) ecological systems approach. This guide offers various approaches to conducting research in different settings, namely State (governmental) and non-State (church and independent) primary and secondary schools. It provides reflections, implications and suggestions on the approach, design and implementation of school-based research. Researchers are invited to reflect and adopt these five principles: reflexivity, strategy, ethics, flexibility and generosity. This paper puts forward a checklist that researchers can use as a point of reference. Such a guide is relevant to three sets of stakeholders in educational practice. Firstly, it is aimed at educational institutions that provide undergraduate or postgraduate courses and require students to conduct school-based research as part of such courses. Secondly, it is aimed at academics who either lecture about research methods in these courses or act as academic supervisors. Thirdly, it could serve as an initial reading and practical guide for novice researchers and students who are about to conduct school-based research in Malta.Save to LibraryDownloadby Heathcliff Schembri•  11  Research Methodology, Maltese Studies, Educational Research, Ethnographic fieldworkEvaluación de dos experiencias de educación compensatoria a través del enfoque bioecológico del desarrolloSave to LibraryDownloadby Viviana Gomez•  2  Bronfenbrenner, Compensatory EducationViolencia escolar: Un análisis desde los diferentes contextos de interacciónSave to LibraryDownloadby Belén Martínez•  7  Psychology, School violence, Social Ecological Systems, CommunityPADRES, NIÑOS, CULTURA DIGITAL Y CUENTOS DE HADASTrabajo práctico para la materia Psicología Clínica de la Niñez y la Adolescencia. ¿Qué recibirá y qué percepción tendrá un niño de un padre “inmigrante digital” que le lee un cuento de hadas para que no use la computadora?, ¿habrá algo... moreTrabajo práctico para la materia Psicología Clínica de la Niñez y la Adolescencia.¿Qué recibirá y qué percepción tendrá un niño de un padre “inmigrante digital” que le lee un cuento de hadas para que no use la computadora?, ¿habrá algo de resentimiento en ese padre que no recibió “del mundo” las posibilidades que los niños de ahora sí? Quizás se trate de lo mismo que reconoció Miller (1980): el padre utiliza una pedagogía de su infancia, porque “así son las cosas”, desvalorizando las ideas nuevas y a su propio hijo. O puede suceder lo contrario, que el padre esté brindando recursos para desarrollar un tipo de procesamiento cognitivo más lento y centrado que se complemente con el constantemente estimulado procesamiento paralelo y veloz propio de la cultura digital y las nuevas tecnologías.Save to LibraryDownloadby Miguel Bruno•  6  Cultura digital, Bronfenbrenner, Influência Cultural, Cuentos De HadasViolencia escolar: Un análisis desde los diferentes contextos de interacciónThe aim of the current study was to analyze the differences between adolescents scoring high and low on school violence in the following areas: individual (self-esteem, loneliness, satisfaction with life, and empathy); family (family... moreThe aim of the current study was to analyze the differences between adolescents scoring high and low on school violence in the following areas: individual (self-esteem, loneliness, satisfaction with life, and empathy); family (family climate, communication with father and mother); academic (classroom climate, attitudes toward authority, and sociometric status); and community (community involvement, community participation, social support from formal systems, and social support from informal systems). Differences in these relationships between boys and girls scoring high on school violence were also examined. Participants in the study were 1723 adolescents, aged 12 to 18 years old, in four secondary schools. Multivariate and univariate analysis of variance were performed. Results showed that adolescents with high levels of school violence scored higher on loneliness, depressive symptomatology, offensive and avoidance communication with father and mother, family conflict, and attitude towards transgression, as compared to adolescents with low levels of school violence. Furthermore, girls scoring high on school violence reported higher scores on academic self-esteem, empathy, and sociometric status, and lower scores on open communication with father and community participation, as compared to boys scoring high in school violence. Finally, these results and their practical implications are discussed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Belén  Martinez-Ferrer•  4  Social-Ecological Systems, School violence, Bronfenbrenner, Violencia EscolarRe-Setting the Stage for Privacy - A Multi-Layered Privacy Interaction Framework and its ApplicationThis book chapter develops a mulit-layered privacy interaction framework to account for the social embeddedness of online privacy. Drawing on Urie Bronfenbrenner's ecological systems theory, we analyze informational privacy on the... moreThis book chapter develops a mulit-layered privacy interaction framework to account for the social embeddedness of online privacy. Drawing on Urie Bronfenbrenner's ecological systems theory, we analyze informational privacy on the Internet on four layers: the micro-system, the exo-system, the meso-system and the macro-system. The micro-system encompasses the individual and its psychological decisions; the exo-system relates to Internet companies and organizations; the meso-system describes cultural and temporal aspects; and the macro-system deals with legal and regulatory questions. Privacy on each layer is first analyzed independently and then as a series of interactions between the different layers. Each interaction is illustrated with a current example. The chapter concludes with a range of theoretical and practical implications. It is one of the first attempts to conceptualize online privacy as a multi-level and multi-dimensional phenomenon.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rehana Harasgama and +5Christoph LutzAurelia Tamò-LarrieuxFlavius KehrVeselina MilanovaSeverina Mueller•  8  Sociology, Psychology, Communication, Internet Studies2016. [open access] Rethinking context: digital technologies and children’s everyday livesThis paper is available open access. The paper considers different ways of conceptualising the settings in which research takes place into children’s everyday uses of digital technologies at home. The terms ‘ecology’ and ‘context’ are... moreThis paper is available open access. The paper considers different ways of conceptualising the settings in which research takes place into children’s everyday uses of digital technologies at home. The terms ‘ecology’ and ‘context’ are widely used to describe such settings but may be less appropriate as the boundaries between ‘home’ and ‘technology’ become less distinct. The paper traces associations between ‘ecology’, ‘culture’ and ‘context’ and outlines some of the ways in which the increasing omnipresence and invisibility of technologies in the home prompt different ways of both thinking about the research setting and suitable methods for exploring children’s everyday lives. Using the Internet of Things as an illustration, it contests default understandings of context and discusses the need to reconsider our use of terminology so that it takes account of the methodological implications and its theoretical provenance.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lydia Plowman•  4  Children and Media, Culture and Context, Bronfenbrenner, Ecocultural TheoryTaking Up the Locomotive Role in an International Non-Cooperative Context and the Problem of Time Inconsistency of Relative Locomotive PowerSave to LibraryDownloadby Philippe  De Lombaerde•  3  International Macroeconomics, Bronfenbrenner, Policy CoordinationCuban Teacher Perspectives on Race and Racism: The Pedagogy of Home-School RelationsEducation researcher Arlo Kempf discusses his TC Record article. #TheVoiceSave to Libraryby Arlo Kempf•  5  Cuban Studies, Race and Ethnicity, Anti-Racism, BronfenbrennerViolencia escolar: Un análisis desde los diferentes contextos de interacciónSave to LibraryDownloadby Rosa  Varela Garay•  6  Psychology, School violence, Social Ecological Systems, BronfenbrennerYoung children's understandings and experiences of parental deployment within an Australian Defence Force familyMilitary deployment is considered a stressful period for families (Palmer, 2008), typically lasting three to nine months for Australian Defence Force (ADF) personnel. To date, insufficient research has been conducted concerning children... moreMilitary deployment is considered a stressful period for families (Palmer, 2008), typically lasting three to nine months for Australian Defence Force (ADF) personnel. To date, insufficient research has been conducted concerning children who experience deployment (Siebler, 2015). This study seeks to provide valuable insights into young children&#39;s understandings and experiences of their parents&#39; military deployment in an Australian context. An adapted research framework, based on the policies from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNICEF, 2015) and Clark and Moss (2011), has been created to listen to and privilege the often marginalised child&#39;s voice. Employing a qualitative research approach known as Mosaic research, multiple methods of data collection are combined to gather various insights into children&#39;s experiences. Embracing an interpretivist epistemology, the researcher aims to create shared knowledges of children&#39;s understandings and...Save to Libraryby Tanya Hathaway•  20  Sociology, Narrative, Children and Families, Military FamiliesHousehold Water Treatment and Safe Storage, from household chores to national policythe presentation is about Aman Tirta, a PPP program that promoted and marketed chlorine-based point-of-use drinking water treatment as a commercial product in Indonesia. The program was implemented by a consortium consisting of JHU/CCP,... morethe presentation is about Aman Tirta, a PPP program that promoted and marketed chlorine-based point-of-use drinking water treatment as a commercial product in Indonesia. The program was implemented by a consortium consisting of JHU/CCP, Care International Indonesia, PT Tanshia, a private company that produces Bayclin in Indonesia, and PT Ultra Salur, the distributor.Save to LibraryDownloadby Abigael Ati•  7  Household Water Treatment Systems, Public Health, Bronfenbrenner, Public-Private PartnershipsReligious Development Psychology in the Context of Ecological Theory Ekolojik Kuram Bağlamında Dinî Gelişim PsikolojisiThe effects of heredity and the environment on the development of human being, which is a multidimensional being, have been discussed for many years. Studies on the religious development of man were also influenced by these discussions.... moreThe effects of heredity and the environment on the development of human being, which is a multidimensional being, have been discussed for many years. Studies on the religious development of man were also influenced by these discussions. In this context, in order to better understand the nature of religious development, some theories such as behavioral, cognitive or stage theories have emerged. In a sense, these theories have also identified the direction of religious development. However, many of these theories did not address their religious development as a whole. This restricted the understanding of religious development. Therefore, this article has two main purposes. First, to bring the ecological theory which is the human development model proposed by Bronfenbrenner, which considers human development as a whole with the environment and events in which it lives, to the literature of our country's religion psychology. The second aim is that to contribute to a better understanding of the psychological foundations of religious development through the use of this theory. In this article where qualitative research method has been used, some quantitative study data have been used. In the article, the ecosystem, ecosystem, macrosystem, and the effect of each of the chronosystem on religious development is discussed. In this article, it is concluded that approach to religious development in the context of ecological theory can be useful.Summary: Human being is existentially open to development. The openness of human to development is not a choice but a requirement. Therefore, each individual must experience a developmental process in which physiological, psychological and sociological conditions are intertwined unless he has voluntarily terminated his existence. Psychologists, who are aware of this, attach a special importance to the phenomenon of development. Is heredity is more effective in human development, or the environment? This question is a result of the importance that psychologists attribute to development.Essentially, the roots of these debates on human development are based on the foundation of modern psychology. For example, Locke, one of the most important philosophers of the 18th century, rejected the idea of ​​Descartes, one of the 17th-century thinkers, that man came to the world equipped with all sorts of knowledge and skills. Unlike Descartes, Locke argued that the source of all human knowledge is based on experience. According to Locke, the mind of the newborn baby is an un scraped tablet = tabula rasa, but it is not only the normal knowledge but also the source of God's imagination.This perspective on human development naturally affected the problem of religious development. For example, Jung sought the basis of religious faith in the collective unconscious, referring to the hereditary foundations of religious faith in a sense. On the other hand, Pratt approached the problem of religious development on the basis of experience.In general, religious development studies carried out on more experienced grounds have brought some theoretical approaches. Goldman, for example, examined the course of religious development from childhood to adolescence. For him, religious thought is not that different from non-religious thought in terms of form and method. Fowler, on the other hand, expressed that faith is not always religious in terms of content and context, and has developed a theory of belief development that includes religious development. However, some religious development models brings a different perspective to the development of the religious phenomenon in Turkey have been developed. Three-stage religious development model developed by Karaca is one of them. According to this model, the process of religious development of human beings is completed through three stages: inner tendencies, awakening of religious interest and questioning, harmony and stability.The necessity of using multi-dimensional approaches to understand the human being is a multidimensional entity is undoubtedly a reality. For this reason, it can be stated that the diversity of the explanation models for the religious development phenomenon mentioned above is a richness. It is thought that looking at the phenomenon of religious development in terms of the ecological theory developed by Bronfenbrenner, will increase the wealth of the means to understand the phenomenon of religious development. In this context, the main aim of this article is to provide the literature on the psychology of religion in our country and to contribute to the understanding of the phenomenon of religious development in the context of the theory of ecological theory put forward by Bronfenbrenner in a holistic way.The qualitative research method has been used in this article, besides the explanations and analyzes, the data of the quantitative studies, which are not directly related to the subject, have also been utilized.The basic step of the ecological theory that Bronfenbrenner suggested is a structure in which many systems from family to political and cultural systems overlap to better understand human development. The microsystem, which represents the innermost layer surrounding the individual, expresses the basic structure in which the individual lives and interacts with other people, while the mesosystemincludes the developing individual and the home and the school, school and workplace. It includes connections between two or more microsystems or contexts. The ecosystem, which is an extension of the mesosystem covering both formal and informal structures and relationships, does not directly affect the individual; however, it surrounds the individual by influencing the current arrangements that the individual has been in. The part of the theory that expresses the attitudes and ideologies of the culture in which the individual lives is the macrosystem. The last link of the theory is the chronosystem. The chronosystem, which explains how socio-historical conditions, lifelong transitions and environmental events occur in a pattern, has an important place in the development history of the individual.Although human beings are born with capability for believing, this situation alone is not enough to complete the process of religious development in a healthy way. When considered in the context of ecological theory, the religious development of the individual is affected from the first degree of the microsystem which is in direct contact with his family, school, peer groups, religious groups and playgrounds. In addition, the mesosystem, ecosystem, macrosystem and chronosystem affect the religious development of the individual either directly or indirectly. However, it should be noted that the effects of these systems on religious development are always double polarized.In order to better understand the psychology of religious development in the context of ecological theory, it is thought that the cross-sectional and longitudinal studies that will be done with different groups in which the systems constituting the theory are effective will provide illuminating information about the subject. However, researchers, who will study religious development, are very careful when analyzing the relationships of the variables such as gender, age, civil status, education level, occupational groups and socio-economic level expressing the characteristics of the sample group in the experimental studies and used as independent variables. to be. Since, although the effects of these variables on the level of religiousness, the effects of these variables on dependent variables can be limited without considering the ecological theory.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cumhuriyet Theology Journal  - Cumhuriyet İlahiyat Dergisi•  5  Psychology of Religion, Development, Ecological Theory, BronfenbrennerYoung children's understandings and experiences of parental deployment within an Australian Defence Force familyMilitary deployment is considered a stressful period for families (Palmer, 2008), typically lasting three to nine months for Australian Defence Force (ADF) personnel. To date, insufficient research has been conducted concerning children... moreMilitary deployment is considered a stressful period for families (Palmer, 2008), typically lasting three to nine months for Australian Defence Force (ADF) personnel. To date, insufficient research has been conducted concerning children who experience deployment (Siebler, 2015). This study seeks to provide valuable insights into young children's understandings and experiences of their parents' military deployment in an Australian context. An adapted research framework, based on the policies from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNICEF, 2015) and Clark and Moss (2011), has been created to listen to and privilege the often marginalised child's voice. Employing a qualitative research approach known as Mosaic research, multiple methods of data collection are combined to gather various insights into children's experiences. Embracing an interpretivist epistemology, the researcher aims to create shared knowledges of children's understandings and experiences, progressively building insights into the child's experience and inviting discussions to take place about their experiences. The study found that young children's experiences of parental deployment included stressors, responses, adaptations and protective factors. Another major finding was that children's understandings of parental deployment were often underestimated by parents. Children's understandings were strongly influenced by time, place, acculturation, narrative, digital technology, cognitive development, adult reinforcement and the use of age and culturally appropriate resources. The central goal of Mosaic research 'is not to make children's knowledge unquestionable, but to raise it to such a level that children's knowledge about their lives is central to adult discussions' (Clark & Moss, 2011, p. 65). Such knowledge about children's understandings and experiences of deployment can inform effective support strategies for parents, educators and professionals who work with these children in the ADF and wider community.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marg  Rogers•  20  Narrative, Children and Families, Military Families, Military Children and FamiliesAPRIL MARTIN CHARTRAND:  The Case of  Gabriel Velez  - Power Point presentation:Practicum 736 Client Case PresentationNames and other identifying elements have been changed to protect the identity of the client.Save to LibraryDownloadby April Martin  Chartrand•  17  Black Studies Or African American Studies, Community Colleges, Counseling Psychology, Disability StudiesThe bullied boy: masculinity, embodiment, and the gendered social-ecology of Vietnamese school bullyingThis article considers the ways in which school bullying is both gendered and embodied. Drawing on ethnographic fieldwork conducted in two lower-secondary schools in northern Vietnam, the article focuses on the experiences of one... moreThis article considers the ways in which school bullying is both gendered and embodied. Drawing on ethnographic fieldwork conducted in two lower-secondary schools in northern Vietnam, the article focuses on the experiences of one ninth-grade boy, who was regularly bullied by his classmates, and whose experiences of bullying appeared to be embodied for all to see. Inspired by Arthur Brittan’s notion of masculinism, Elizabeth Grosz’s use of the möbius strip metaphor for understanding embodiment, and Urie Bronfenbrenner’s conceptualization of the ecological environment, I argue that school bullying needs to be understood not only in terms of the interactions between individuals or groups of individuals, but also in terms of the specific gendered social-ecological environment within which those interactions occur.Save to Libraryby Paul Horton•  20  Gender Studies, Education, Educational Research, Social-Ecological SystemsRelated TopicsEcological Systems TheoryFollowFollowingPublic Policy & AdministrationFollowFollowingHomeland SecurityFollowFollowingEnergy SecurityFollowFollowingCritical InfrastructuresFollowFollowingPublic Health NursingFollowFollowingHealth Visiting ServicesFollowFollowingManagementFollowFollowingChild PovertyFollowFollowingSchool ClimateFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023