Old Rus' Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Old Rus'11,454 FollowersRecent papers in Old Rus'Top PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleByzantium and the Viking World (Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis Studia Byzantina Upsaliensia 16) Uppsala, 2016Save to LibraryDownloadby Fedir Androshchuk (Фёдор Андрощук) and +2Jonathan ShepardMonica White•  16  Medieval Studies, Old Norse Literature, Early Medieval Archaeology, Medieval ScandinaviaSwords and Social Aspects of Weaponry in Viking Age societies. (Stockholm, 2014).Save to LibraryDownloadby Fedir Androshchuk (Фёдор Андрощук)•  19  Early Medieval Archaeology, Viking Studies, Viking Age Archaeology, Old Rus'Мария Плюханова . Явленная икона в XV веке: о происхождении Колочской, Смоленской, Казанской.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Pliukhanova•  14  Russian Studies, Russian Literature, Byzantine Iconography, Russian HistoryИз литературной истории «Хожения» игумена ДаниилаИз литературной истории «Хожения» игумена Даниила // «Хожение» игумена Даниила в Святую Землю в начале XII в.: К 900-летию со времени хожения / Изд. подгот. О. А. Белоброва, М. Гардзанити, Г. М. Прохоров, И. В. Федорова. СПб., 2007. С.... moreИз литературной истории «Хожения» игумена Даниила // «Хожение» игумена Даниила в Святую Землю в начале XII в.: К 900-летию со времени хожения / Изд. подгот. О. А. Белоброва, М. Гардзанити, Г. М. Прохоров, И. В. Федорова. СПб., 2007. С. 339−398.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ирина  Федорова•  6  Russian Literature, Russian History, Old Rus', история РоссииЛітописна повість 1147 р. про вбивство Ігоря ОльговичаSave to LibraryDownloadby Tatiana Vilkul (Тетяна Вілкул)•  10  Old Rus', Medieval Balkans, Byzantine historiography, Ukrainian LiteratureЛопатин Н.В. Стены и башни древнего Изборска (= Walls and towers of ancient Izborsk)N. V. Lopatin Walls and towers of ancient Izborsk. Izborsk is one of the most beautiful places of Northwest Russia. The main attraction of Izborsk is the fortress of the 14th–15th centuries, well preserved to our days. However, there is... moreN. V. LopatinWalls and towers of ancient Izborsk.Izborsk is one of the most beautiful places of Northwest Russia. The main attraction of Izborsk is the fortress of the 14th–15th centuries, well preserved to our days. However, there is another great historic landmark – Truvor fortified settlement, where the town was situated earlier. The hillfort was studied in 1971–1992 by the expedition of V. V. Sedov from the Institute of archaeology, Academy of Sciences of the USSR. One of significant discoveries were the remnants of walls and towers of the early-medieval town, which were completely unknown before the excavations. Remains of stone masonry walls preserved beneath the earth (in the cultural layer) up to the height of over 1 m were built of local limestone without mortar, only sometimes the joints between the stones were filled with clay. The width of the walls comprises from 2.5 to 4 m, and the height likely was less. Thus, the stone structure should be rather called a basement for a wooden defensive wall. At the headland of the hillfort a semicircular base of a tower was revealed. Sedov attributed the building of the stone fortifications to the turn of the 11th–12th centuries, but available evidence suggests an earlier date for the construction start – late 10th century. The article describes the detailed reconsruction of one of the elements of the fortress – the Western gate, where the author supervised the study in 1987–1992. The gate was destroyed and rebuilt several times. The most representative data for the reconstruction secured from two building periods – the beginning of the 11th and the first half of the 13th centuries. The materials of the excavations indicate that the entry was fortified by a wooden gate tower.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolaj  Lopatin / Николай Лопатин•  6  Baltic Sea Region Studies, Medieval Archaeology, Viking Age Archaeology, Old Rus'Лаушкин А.В. Выбор дней для княжичьих постригов в Древней Руси //  Русь, Россия: Средневековье и Новое время. Выпуск 3: Третьи чтения памяти академика РАН Л.В. Милова. Материалы к международной научной конференции. Москва, 21-23 ноября 2013 г. М., 2013. С. 93-99.Selection of days for princes’ infant sons’ postrigi (cut of hair) in Old Rus’. The author supports the idea of Christian spirit in Old Russian princes’ infant sons’ postrigi (cut of hair) and adduces new arguments in favor of this idea... moreSelection of days for princes’ infant sons’ postrigi (cut of hair) in Old Rus’. The author supports the idea of Christian spirit in Old Russian princes’ infant sons’ postrigi (cut of hair) and adduces new arguments in favor of this idea — these ceremonies often coincide with Christian feasts.Автор поддерживает мнение о христианском характере древнерусских княжичьих постригов и приводит в пользу этого новые аргументы, связанные с календарной приуроченностью данных церемоний.Save to LibraryDownloadby Алексей Лаушкин•  10  Christianity, Paganism, Old Rus', Древняя РусьПопытка трезво оценить уровень раннеславянского металлообрабатывающего производства // Славяне Восточной Европы накануне образования Древнерусского государства. СПб., 2012.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rafael Minasyan•  6  Old Rus', Ancient Craftmanship (Archaeology), Ancient jewellery, Ancient Metal TechnologyКрещение Владимира Святого и начало РусиMультимедийная лекция, посвященная 1000-летию памяти Владимира Святого – Крестителя Руси († 1015), в Международном мультимедийном пресс-центре МИА «Россия сегодня» (Президентский зал) 4 Марта 2015 г. (17:00) в рамках нового... moreMультимедийная лекция, посвященная 1000-летию памяти Владимира Святого – Крестителя Руси († 1015),  в Международном мультимедийном пресс-центре МИА «Россия сегодня» (Президентский зал) 4 Марта 2015 г. (17:00) в рамках нового мультимедийного проекта «Sputnik. Чтения»: http://1000vladimir.ru/2015/03/15/v-moskve-proshla-multimedijnaya-lekciya-istorika-professora-o-g-ulyanova-kreshhenie-vladimira-svyatogo-i-nachalo-rusi/Save to LibraryDownloadby Oleg G . Ulyanov (Олег Германович Ульянов)•  32  History, Russian Studies, Medieval History, RussianСлужба Борису и Глебу киевского митрополита Иоанна: реконструкция греческого акростиха в каноне и датировкаSave to LibraryDownloadby Sergejus Temčinas•  12  Old Church Slavonic, Old Rus', Translation Greek into Old Church Slavonic, history of Russian Language, Old Church Slavonic, Byzantine and Slavonic luturgical poetryЧугаєва І. К. Чернігівські княгині і князівни на сторінках Київського літопису ХІІ ст. і Любецького Синодику: порівняльна характеристика / Ірина Чугаєва // Сіверянський літопис. – 2014. – № 6. – С. 3–14Save to LibraryDownloadby Iryna  Chugaieva•  8  Medieval History, Medieval Studies, Old Rus', Medieval ChroniclesЖукова Е.Н., Степанова Ю.В. Древнерусские погребальные памятники Верхневолжья. История изучения. Каталог исследованных памятников. Тверь, Научная книга, 2010. 364 с.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yuliya Stepanova•  6  Archaeology, History of Costume, History of Museums, Medieval ArchaeologyХрам села Всехсвятского как усыпальница грузинской аристократии// Кадашевские Чтения. №XIX, 2016. С. 302-349.Сегодня Всехсвятский храм возле метро Сокол является одним из самых доходных в Москве. При это о том, что в XVIII-XIX вв. он служил усыпальницей грузинской аристократии, ныне почти не помнят из-за неоднократных изменений его интерьера и... moreСегодня Всехсвятский храм возле метро Сокол является одним из самых доходных в Москве. При это о том, что в XVIII-XIX вв. он служил усыпальницей грузинской аристократии, ныне почти не помнят из-за неоднократных изменений его интерьера и произошедшего в 1981-м сноса прилегающего погоста. Анализ сохранившихся описаний и характеристики нескольких уцелевших надгробий позволяют составить – пускай дискретное – представление о том, каким был облик некрополя внутри храма и возле его стен. Данные же из метрических записей дают дополнительную информацию о социальном составе погребённых, а систематизация эпитафий позволяет понять, каким было их функциональное предназначение.Nowadays the church of All Saints near subway station Sokol is one of if not the most profitable in Moscow. Due to the numerous changes of its interior and the demolition (partly removal) of the churchyard in 1981, the fact that this church located in XVIII-XIX centuries in the namesake village of Moscow county, had been also the necropolis for Georgian nobility, was deleted from the public memory. An analyze of archival descriptions and features of a very few remained tombstones enables to create – even discretely – the perception of how the cemetery looked like inside the church and around its walls. The data from the metric books of the parish provides us with an additional information about social accessory of the buried people, while the systematization of epitaphs shows its functional purpose.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ramazashvili Georgiy•  20  Archaeology, Death Studies, Local History, Russian Orthodox ChurchСмирнов Н.В. Ливонская война и города Ливонии.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikolay Smirnov•  5  Russian Studies, War Studies, 16th Century (History), Old Rus'Недошивина Н.Г., Зозуля С.С. Тимерево // Древняя Русь в средневековом мире: энциклопедия / Институт всеобщей истории РАН; Под общей ред. Е.А. Мельниковой, В.Я. Петрухина.-М.:Ладомир, 2014.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergey Zozulia•Old Rus'Великая княгиня Ксения и ее роль в политической жизни Тверского княжестваSave to LibraryDownloadby Елена Конявская•Old Rus'Историко-археологические записки. Кн. IIISave to LibraryDownloadby Марина Моисеенко•  7  Bronze Age Europe (Archaeology), Old Rus', Bronze Age (Archaeology), MesolithicTissø - Kiev - Konstantinopel: Danske netværk i øst? (Tissø – Kiev – Constantinople: Danish networks in the East?, in Danish)Published in Henriette Lyngstrøm & Lasse C. A. Sonne (eds), Vikingetidens aristokratiske miljøer (Aristocratic Circles in the Viking Age, Copenhagen 2014, pp. 69-76) The text takes its point of departure in the fact that from the 9th to... morePublished in Henriette Lyngstrøm & Lasse C. A. Sonne (eds), Vikingetidens aristokratiske miljøer (Aristocratic Circles in the Viking Age, Copenhagen 2014, pp. 69-76) The text takes its point of departure in the fact that from the 9th to 10th century at least four or five separate Scandinavian power centres were known in the territory of the future Rus’ before they were merged with the Rus’ polity of the Riurikids. Nevertheless, only twice are Scandinavians active in the east directly linked to one or other of the Scandinavians homelands: in 839 (Annales Bertiniani) Rhos returning from Byzantium via the Frankish Empire are revealed as Sueones (Swedes); in 1018 (Chronicon of Thietmar of Merseburg) a multitude of Danish warriors are said to be present in Kiev during the war of succession after the death of Vladimir Sviatoslavich. Possibly linked to the presence of the Sueones in Byzantium three seals from c. 840 of Patrikios Theodosios, who may have been involved with procuring mercenaries to Byzantium and who may also have formed part of the embassy in 839, are found in three locations in Denmark, Haithabu, Ribe and the aristocratic/royal? manor at Lake Tissø. Were these seals attached to documents that had to do with hiring mercenaries? That there was a steady flow of mercenaries from Scandinavia to Rus’ and Byzantium is well-known. A culmination was reached in the late 10th and beginning of the 11th century. Not Least Jaroslav Vladimirovich depended on these mercenaries when he defeated his Polish supported half-brother Sviatopolk. Probably it was these mercenaries that Thietmar claimed to be Danes. This claim by Thietmar has hitherto hardly been taken seriously.However lately archaeological excavations (the six or seven Trelleborgs, other major earthworks, the Jelling complex) have shown the Danish king Harald Bluetooth to be just as powerful a king as his son and grandson, Sven Forkbeard and Cnut the Great. Therefore not least Russian and Ukrainian scholars begin to think that it was these powerful kings that were able to supply, first to Vladimir Sviatoslavich and later Jaroslav Vladimirovich with their Varangian troops.An important way of creating networks among the higher echelon was through marital agreements. Mostly these are only known when they concern ruling houses, although many members of the royal or princely families that were not in line for the succession must have married into the local aristocracy as a means of fortifying their internal position. That must have been the case with the powerful Hvide clan. Many dynastic links on the highest level were formed between Scandinavia and Rus’. A peak was reached in the first decades of the 12th century when these links also included the imperial family in Constantinople. This was a period when Byzantine influence in church frescoes culminated in Denmark with famous frescoes from c. 1121 in the royal church at Vä. The same workshop painted the frescoes in Sæby at Tissø, which seems to have been one of many churches belonging to the Hvide clan. Can it be that the Hvide clan was settled at Tissø already c. 840 and that the clan had continuously entertained links with the East perhaps as agents supplying Varangian mercenaries to Rus’ and Byzantium?Save to LibraryDownloadby John H Lind•  9  Elites (Political Science), Old Rus', Danish History, Byzantine artСамонова М.Н. Рогволод и Рогнеда: скандинавские корни полоцкой княжеской династии / М.Н. Самонова // Alba Ruscia: белорусские земли на перекрестке культур и цивилизаций (X–XVI вв.) / Отв. ред. А.В. Мартынюк. – М. : Квадрига, 2015. – С. 8–26.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maryia (Марыя/Мария) Samonava (Самонава/Самонова)•  5  Old Rus', Belarusian History, Old Russian Chronicles, Vikings in the East«Послание на Угру» и вопрос о происхождении московской имперской идеологии.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Pliukhanova•  16  Russian History, Russian Orthodoxy, Imperial ideology and representation, Old Rus'Оружие «московского дела» в событиях русско-польской войны 1654-1667 годов (по данным описей Государевой оружейной казны) / Weapons of the "Moscow school" in the events of the Russian-Polish war of 1654-1667 (according to the inventories of the Sovereign's arms treasury)Ульянов О.Г. Оружие «московского дела» в событиях русско-польской войны 1654-1667 годов (по данным описей Государевой оружейной казны) // Война и оружие: Новые исследования и материалы. Труды Третьей международной научно-практической... moreУльянов О.Г. Оружие «московского дела» в событиях русско-польской войны 1654-1667 годов (по данным описей Государевой оружейной казны) // Война и оружие: Новые исследования и материалы. Труды Третьей международной научно-практической конференции 16-18 мая 2012 г. СПб., 2012. Ч. III. C. 304-320.http://books.reenactor.ru/?bookid=1925Save to LibraryDownloadby Oleg G . Ulyanov (Олег Германович Ульянов)•  32  History, Military History, Cultural History, Russian StudiesАрхиепископы Афанасий Холмогорский и Александр Устюжский - собиратели канонических рукописей Статья посвящена книжным коллекциям двух севернорусских архиереев: Афанасия Холмогорского и Александра Устюжского. Наблюдения над кодикологическими особенностями рукописей позволили определить характерные черты принадлежавших им книг.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maria Korogodina•  21  History, Canon Law, Book History, Manuscripts and Early Printed BooksНовые материалы к истории новгородского Владычного двора  // Лазаревские чтения. Искусство Византии, Древней Руси, Западной Европы. Материалы научной конференции 2009. М., 2009. С. 141–157 (совместно с Вал. А. Булкиным, А. В. Жервэ)Save to LibraryDownloadby Ilya Antipov and +1Alexey Gervais•  4  Old Rus', Medieval Art, Novgorod the Great, Hanseatic LeagueС. М. Михеев. Княжеские печати с тамгами и атрибуция знаков Рюриковичей XI–XII в. (2017)Статья посвящена проблеме атрибуции знаков Рюриковичей. На основе двух типов источников: редких двузубцев и трезубцев, сопровождающихся подписями, и свинцовых печатей с княжеской тамгой на одной стороне и изображением небесного патрона на... moreСтатья посвящена проблеме атрибуции знаков Рюриковичей. На основе двух типов источников: редких двузубцев и трезубцев, сопровождающихся подписями, и свинцовых печатей с княжеской тамгой на одной стороне и изображением небесного патрона на обороте – удается установить личные знаки нескольких потомков Ярослава Мудрого, живших в XI – начале XIII в.Savva M. Mikheev. Princely Seals with Tamgas and Attribution of Rurikids’ Signs of the 11th – 12th Centuries (2017)The article offers several new attributions of Rurikids’ signs to specific Old Russian princes of the 11th – early 13th century. This attempt is based on two types of sources: rare tamgas with adjoining inscriptions as well as lead seals with a tamga on one side and an image of a saint on the other.Save to LibraryDownloadby Savva M Mikheev•Old Rus'Бобров А. Г. Сакральная вода в древнерусской традиции: утренняя роса и парная баня // Святая вода в иеротопии и иконографии христианского мира / Ред.-сост. А. М. Лидов. М., 2017. С. 481–495.The Old Russian concept of sacred water, that is water possessing magical properties, is analysed in this chapter. The most important manifestation of the cult of sacred water in Old Russia was its ritual use in conjunction with a variety... moreThe Old Russian concept of sacred water, that is water possessing magical properties, is analysed in this chapter. The most important manifestation of the cult of sacred water in Old Russia was its ritual use in conjunction with a variety of plant substances (“potion”), whereby the water acquired some new, special properties. Magical water, according to medieval notions, condensed on leaves as morning dew. Collected from plants at a certain time, it was used to enhance one’s growth, strength, health, and beauty. A magical herb potion was also brewed using morning dew. Tumbling and rolling in the dew early in the morning before “Ivan Kupala” (St John the Baptist’s day), and some other holidays, as well as collection and subsequent use of the dew, was considered to be a universal magical method that cured almost all diseases. Tumbling in the dew had its counterpart in the sacraments of Baptism and Confirmation. According to East Slavic sources, participants in the morning dew ceremony could reach a transpersonal state of consciousness similar to a deep mystical experience. The earliest written evidence of Old Russian ritual use of water dates from the eleventh and twelfth centuries, but refers back to even earlier, pre-Christian times (e.g. references to steam baths in the opening part of “The Tale of Bygone Years”, as well as in the chronicle entries for the years 907 and 945). In the Russian medieval tradition, the steam bath was considered a sort of domestic sanctuary. The opposition of the steam bath and the church corresponds to the opposition between the pagan and the Christian. Steam bath rites in Old Russia were opposed to their respective religious rites and sacraments, such as Baptism, Confirmation, Wedding, Priesthood, Anointing of the Sick, Funeral, and Remembrance. Duplications of Christian and pagan rituals are clearly observed in “rites of passage”. Such contradictory beliefs as Christian baptism and the magical “first bathing” of a newborn; church wedding and the washing of the bride and groom in the bathhouse together with the sorcerer; the remembrance of the dead with Synodicon and the “bath for the dead”, successfully coexisted in the minds of medieval Russian people. Various substances of vegetable origin, different potions, and special brooms with flowers and herbs were used for the ritual steam bath. In Old Russia this pagan rite was called “mov’”, and it was widespread in the Russian North. “Mov’” led to the attainment of transpersonal experiences, the ecstatic “state of the dead and spirits”. The Old Russian pagan “mov’” is a typical ceremony characterized by evaporation of water thrown onto hot stones and inhalation of steam and smoke of burning plants. This ritual is known from a variety of archaic traditions; Old Russia was no exception.It is important to note that both the tumbling in the morning dew and the rituals in the steam bath are closely linked to the borderline of liquid and gaseous aggregate states of water, namely the non-equilibrium processes of condensation and evaporation. For participants of the ceremonies, this symbolized the border between the world of the living and the world of the dead, between real and metaphysical space.Save to LibraryDownloadby Александр Бобров Aleksandr Bobrov•  6  Pagan Studies, Old Rus', Transpersonal Studies, Baths and bathing cultureАвласович А. М. Пятилучевое височное кольцо из погребения с трупосожжением могильника СтудёнкаАвласович А. М. Пятилучевое височное кольцо из погребения с трупосожжением могильника Студёнка / А. М. Авласович // Копытинские чтения – III : сборник статей Международной научно-практической конференции, 28 февраля - 1 марта 2019 г. /... moreАвласович А. М. Пятилучевое височное кольцо из погребения с трупосожжением могильника Студёнка / А. М. Авласович // Копытинские чтения – III : сборник статей Международной научно-практической конференции, 28 февраля - 1 марта 2019 г. / под общ. ред. А. М. Авласовича. – Могилев : МГУ имени А. А. Кулешова, 2020. – С. 3–4.В статье рассматривается находка пятилучевого височно­ го кольца, обнаруженного при исследовании кургана с кремацией на тер­ритории Быховского района. Проведено классификационное сравнение с аналогами, дана культурная атрибуция. Ключевые слова: височное кольцо, культура типа Лука-Райковецкая, боршевская культура, роменская культура.Save to LibraryDownloadby Алексей Авласович•  7  Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Old Rus', ArheologyArchaeozoological Materials from Shestovytsia Necropolis in the Collections of the Institute of Archaeology / Археозоологічні матеріали Шестовицького могильника з колекцій Інституту археологіїA long-term archaeological study at Shestovytsia necropolis accumulated a significant collection, an important part of which are archaeozoological materials. Most of the finds are stored at the Institute of Archaeology of the National... moreA long-term archaeological study at Shestovytsia necropolis accumulated a significant collection, an important part of which are archaeozoological materials. Most of the finds are stored at the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. V. I. Bibikova determined the bones from 35 Shestovytsia’s burial mounds, excavated in the 1940s—1950s and published by D. I. Blifeld. Currently, in the collection, there are osteological remains from 28 complexes and 3 bones without the catalogue numbers, they were identified by Ye. Yu. Yanish.The sample from this site includes 454 fragments of animal origin from 61 individuals minimum. All animal remains belong to the category of «ritually used» because they originate from an inventory of burials. These are the animal for sacrifice buried along with the human body, the remains of funeral feast and of food placed into the grave, and the personal belongings of the dead, i. e. things of everyday use (combs, pointed tools (fids or marlinspikes), needle- and awl-cases, etc.), amulets, and gaming pieces. They are ranged by a degree of treatment from bones without any treatment to complicated bone products. Animals which bones were used for further treatment were adult species. The bones of young individuals, apparently, belonged to the animals used for funeral feast. Total of 11 representative mammal species belong to 3 Orders — Artiodactyla: Bovidae family, Cervidae family, Suidae family; Perissodactyla: Equidae family; Carnivora: Canidae family and Ursidae family; and also Rodentia. In addition, in several graves, chicken bones (Gallus gallus domesticus), bird’s (obviously chicken) eggs, as well as the shell of the Unio crassus were detected. There are no fish remains in the materials from the necropolis. Domestic species accounted for 68.3 % of the determined mammalian remains. The largest variety is registered in the materials from the burial mound 21 (the mound 22 (121), according to the report, excavations in 1956) and the burial 1 and 4 of the mound 61 (the mound 52 (51), according to the report, excavations in 1957).87 bones contain traces of influence: the effects of fire, the traces of chopping, cutting, and gnawing by dogs. In the investigated material, there is a bone of small cattle with pathological enlargements, which are the result of the inflammatory process, in this case, most probably after trauma. In addition, the enamel of the horse’s tooth is damaged, which is likely a result of the certain types of feed usage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Natalia  Khamaiko and +1Yevheniia Yanish•  13  Zooarchaeology, Archaeozoology, Viking Age Archaeology, Old Rus'До питання про «хронологічну симетрію» Повісті временных літ (On 'chronological simmetry' in the Primary Chronicle)Save to LibraryDownloadby Vadym Aristov•  3  Old Rus', Kievan Rus', Old Russian Chronicles[Review] Duczko, Wladyslaw. Viking Rus: Studies on the Presence of Scandinavians in Eastern Europe (Leiden and Boston: Brill, 2004), XIV+290 p.in Ukrainian.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mikhail  Raev•  5  Old Rus', Vikings in the East, Varangians, Viking Age WeaponsПлюханова М. О Традициях Софийских и Успенских церквей в русских землях до XVI векаSave to LibraryDownloadby Maria Pliukhanova•  12  Russian Studies, Russian Literature, Russian History, Russian OrthodoxyГотун І.А., Горбаненко С.А., Сергєєва М.С. Житло з Софіївської Борщагівки та прояви одного із давніх слов’янських обрядів (Dwelling from Sophiyivska Borschagivka and manifestation of one of the Ancient Slavic rites) // MiSROA. — Rzeszów, 2016. — T. 37. — С. 325—332.I. A. Gotun, S. A. Gorbanenko, M. S. Sergeyeva Dwelling from Sophiyivska Borschagivka and manifestation of one of the Ancient Slavic rites Peculiarities of objects of mass buildings could reflect both specifics of material culture and... moreI. A. Gotun, S. A. Gorbanenko, M. S. SergeyevaDwelling from Sophiyivska Borschagivka and manifestation of one of the Ancient Slavic ritesPeculiarities of objects of mass buildings could reflect both specifics of material culture and some features of the spiritual culture of the population. This idea was discussed in a large number of scientific papers.It was possible to trace some manifestations of this phenomenon inter alia in unfortified settlements in Southern Rus. But the fixed phenomena were primarily heating installations. Recent work on settlement in Sophiyivska Borshchagivka in the suburbs of Kiev allow to suggest the existence of other manifestations of the ancient rites of the Slavs.The settlement was discovered in 1956 and was partially excavated in the 1990s. The Northern expedition of Institute of Archaeology NAS Ukraine studies this locality since 2007 in the context of the research of antiquities in the microregion and public popularization of knowledge about the past.During this time, there was disclosed a plot of 0.19 hectares, two plots of 15 hectares, two more of more than 0.12 hectares, and four were each of 0.10 hectares. The work continue on other plots. One of the buildings dated to 12th — a first half of 13th cent. studied in this settlement consisted of two rooms that were residential and unheated. It was destroyed in a fire.The study of materials of the filling of this building allows us to find out the remains of cereals in its corner situated diagonally from the oven. There were grains of rye (Secale cereale), emmer (Triticum dicoccon), oats (Avena sativa) or wild oats (Avena fatua), millet (Panicum miliaceum), indeterminate cereals (Cerealia) and a significant amount of barley membranous (Hordeum vulgare). There were also a straw and pine charcoal (Pіnus sylvestris). At the same time, the sample from the far corner consisted only of charred barley grains membranous (Hordeum vulgare) combined with oak charcoal (Quercus sp.). On some embers the traces of processing could be seen. This placement of palaeobotanical material allowes us to to draw parallels with well-known ethnologically rite, that is worship of last sheaf that left after harvesting and placed in ceremonial corner of the dwelling. It is also comparable with Christmas tradition to put a sheaf of Guard named didukh (or Kolyada, did — grandfather) to the same corner. It was often made of different kinds of cereals. Moreover taking into account the traditional storage of seed grain fund in seed pits often found in this settlement, we have reason to assume, that the selective grain of barley in the second sample, possibly stored in oak barrels, could be raw material for preparation of the holiday baking (corochun, crachun) or Christmas barley porridge with honey. The relationship of materials in question with the period of harvesting is possible, however, their relationship to Christmas is more preferable due to increased peril of fires during the winter heating of the house. But whatever the a final decision about the time of archaeologization of complex in question could be, there is no doubt that there were fixed the probable material manifestation of a calendar rites of the ancient Slavs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergiy Gorbanenko and +2Ігор Готунmarina  sergeeva•  15  Archaeology, Historical Archaeology, Ukrainian Studies, Early Medieval ArchaeologyДавньоруська історіографія: термінологічні роздуми / Old Ruthenian historiography: terminological reflectionsSave to LibraryDownloadby Vadym Aristov•  7  Old Rus', Kievan Rus', Old Russian Chronicles, Old RusРайский сад и райские яблоки?  Монастырский сад и его восприятие в Древней Руси / Garden of Eden and Heavenly Apples?  The monastery garden and its perception in Early Medieval RussiaВ работе рассматривается вопрос о об особенностях восприятия в Древней Руси христианской идеи райского сада и отождествлении различных растений с растениями Эдема. Единственное сколь-нибудь подробное известие о монастырском саде содержит... moreВ работе рассматривается вопрос о об особенностях восприятия в Древней Руси христианской идеи райского сада и отождествлении различных растений с растениями Эдема. Единственное сколь-нибудь подробное известие о монастырском саде содержит Киево-Печерский патерик в «Слове» о монахе киевского печерского монастыря Григории Чудотворце, который разводил яблони. Данные переводных и местных памятники литературы Древней Руси не позволяют заключить, что в домонгольское время вполне закрепилось, уже сложившееся в Византии, отождествление яблони с растением райского сада, а яблока – с райским или запретным плодом. Усвоение этой традиции относится к более позднему времени. Рассказ Патерика о «древах плодовитых» Григория Чудотворца не содержит прямых аллюзий к теме райского сада и истории грехопадения. Тем не менее, косвенные данные позволяют предположить, что истории о яблоневом саде печерского монаха создавались под влиянием этой традиции.The article is devoted to the peculiarities of perception of the Christian idea of the Garden of Eden in Early Medieval Russia and the identification of various plants with the plants of Eden. The only one detailed information about the monastery garden is contained in the Kiev Caves Patericon in the part devoted to the monk of the Kiev Caves monastery Gregory the Wonderworker, who bred apple trees. The evidences of translated and local texts do not allow us to conclude that in pre-Mongol times, the identification of an apple tree with a tree of the Garden of Eden, and an apple with a heavenly or forbidden fruit, already established by this time in Byzantium, was fully established. The assimilation of this tradition belongs to a later time. The Patericon's story about the "fruitful trees" by Gregory the Wonderworker does not contain direct allusions to the theme of the Garden of Eden and the history of the Fall. Nevertheless, indirect signs suggest that the stories about the apple orchard of the Kiev Caves monk were created under the influence of this tradition.Save to LibraryDownloadby Сергей Чебаненко•  16  Cultural History, Russian Literature, History of Religion, History of ChristianityВеликий Новгород_Словене_2018_2.pdfThe aim of the paper is to examine the concept that was crucial for the Novgorod’s political identity in the time of independence — ‘Novgorod the Great’ (Veliky Novgorod). The author takes into account not only mentions of this phrase in... moreThe aim of the paper is to examine the concept that was crucial for the Novgorod’spolitical identity in the time of independence — ‘Novgorod the Great’ (VelikyNovgorod). The author takes into account not only mentions of this phrase inNovgorodian medieval documents and narratives, but also considerable andhighly important evidence originating from other Russian lands and abroad(Hanseatic and Lithuanian documents written in Middle Low German andLatin). A review of the relevant publications shows that, at present, the issuestill remains a controversial one. The author comes to the following conclusions.In Hanseatic documents, written in Middle Low German, ‘Novgorod the Great’was already being mentioned since at least 1330s, which is more than sixty yearsearlier than is considered in the current conventional view. For the first time‘Novgorod the Great’ is mentioned not in a Novgorodian text but in a Kievanone — in the account from the Hypatian Chronicle of 1141. In the second halfof the 12th century it appeared in the principality of Vladimir-Suzdal, andonly much later was adopted by Novgorodians themselves. While in Southernand North-East Rus’ ‘Novgorod the Great’ was initially used to distinguishNovgorod on the Volkhov River from local and smaller Novgorods (NovgorodSeversky and Nizhny Novgorod), Novgorodians employed it to glorify theirpolity. In this case it could stand for three different things: the city of Novgorod,the whole polity (Novgorod republic), and ‘the political people’ of Novgorod, i.e.those of the Novgorodians who enjoyed full citizenship rights.Save to LibraryDownloadby Pavel Lukin•  6  Russian Studies, Russian History, Old Rus', Novgorod the Great947 chronicle texts on Princess Olga`s reforms and foundation of PogostsSave to LibraryDownloadby Yurii Dyba•  24  Russian Studies, Medieval History, East European studies, UrbanismМеандр в кирпичном декоре древнерусских храмов / Meander motif in decoration of the Old Rus' churches (2015)The paper is focused on the use of the meander motif in décor of the Old Rus’ church masonry from 11th to early 13th century. Attention is drawn to compositional peculiarities and the diversity of patterns in meander frieze on church... moreThe paper is focused on the use of the meander motif in décor of the Old Rus’ church masonry from 11th to early 13thcentury. Attention is drawn to compositional peculiarities and the diversity of patterns in meander frieze on church facades in Kiev (St. Sophia, Dormition and Saint Michael’s Golden Dome Monasteries, and The Saviour Church at Berestovo), Chernigov (Transfiguration and Saint Parascheva Piatnitsa Churches), and Polotsk (The Saviour Church in the Convent of Saint Euphrosyne). Comparing these with the contemporaneous phenomenon in Byzantine and Trans-caucasian architecture, the author comes to a conclusion that from the first half of 11thcentury the simple non-directional П-shaped patterns and more complicated variants characteristic of the Constantinople builders’ style were used in parallel. Meander’s place in the façade composition in all the Old Russian churches was meant to disclose the internal structure of buildings.Save to LibraryDownloadby Denis Jolshin•  5  Byzantine Architecture, Medieval Architecture, Old Rus', Russian ArchitectureБеспалов Р. А. Исконная вотчина князей Огдыревских и Мезецких (по опубликованным источникам) // Город Средневековья и раннего Нового времени II (V): археология, история. Материалы V всероссийского семинара. Ноябрь 2013 г. Тула: Гос. музей-заповедник «Куликово поле», 2016. С.139–161.Save to LibraryDownloadby Roman Bespalov (Роман Беспалов)•  6  Historical Geography, Medieval History, Russian History, Old Rus''Scandinavians and the social topography of Viking Age Kiev', Ruthenica, 3,  (2004), 7-47 /Rus./.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fedir Androshchuk (Фёдор Андрощук)•  4  Old Rus', Vikings in the East, Medieval Kiev, Urbanisation In Viking Age Scandinavia and Rus«Весь Новгород»:  к вопросу о происхождении и содержании понятияSave to LibraryDownloadby Pavel Lukin•  4  Old Rus', Novgorod the Great, Old Russian Chronicles, Medieval NovgorodМозговий Іван. РÓСИ, або ПЕРЕДДЕНЬ УКРАЇНИSave to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Mozgovyi  (Іван Мозговий)•  20  Russian Studies, Old Rus', Slavic Studies, античная археология и история"Tears from Dry Wood". Weeping, Bleeding and Chrism-Exuding Icons in Russian ChroniclesSave to LibraryDownloadby Aleksandr Preobrazhensky•  6  Old Rus', Virgin Mary, Old Russian Chronicles, Miraculous ImagesГрязнов А.Л. Дьяческие монограммы на актах из фонда ГКЭВ статье систематизируются сведения о дьяческих монограммах, выявленных на актах XV - начала XVI в., хранящихся фондах ГКЭ и Древлехранилище. Грязнов А.Л. Дьяческие монограммы на актах из фонда ГКЭ // Вестник Альянс-Архео. Вып. 18.... moreВ статье систематизируются сведения о дьяческих монограммах, выявленных на актах XV - начала XVI в., хранящихся фондах ГКЭ и Древлехранилище.Грязнов А.Л. Дьяческие монограммы на актах из фонда ГКЭ // Вестник Альянс-Архео. Вып. 18. М.;СПб, 2017.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anatoly (Анатолий) Gryaznov (Грязнов)•  7  History, Russian History, Old Rus', Medieval RussiaКаинов С.Ю.  Еще раз о датировке гнёздовского кургана с мечом из раскопок М.Ф.Кусцинского (К вопросу о нижней дате Гнёздовского могильника) // Гнёздово. 125 лет исследования памятника. Труды Государственного Исторического музея. Вып. 124. М. 2001. С.  54-63.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergei  Kainov•  3  Old Rus', Vikings in the East, GnezdovoПовесть о Варлааме и Иоасафе как литературный источник Жития Дионисия Глушицкого.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marina Chistiakova•  12  Russian Studies, Russian Literature, Medieval Literature, HagiographyЗахаров С.Д. Методика промывки культурного слоя средневековых памятников // Новые исследования по археологии стран СНГ и Балтии. Материалы Школы молодых археологов. Кириллов, 3-12 сентября 2011 г./Отв. ред. и сост. В.Е. Родинкова. - М.: ИА РАН, 2011.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sergey Zakharov•  17  History, Archaeology, Prehistoric Archaeology, Historical ArchaeologyАрхитектура Волынского княжества 1250-1330-х гг. // Проблемы отечественного и зарубежного искусства. Вып.6. СПб., 2002. С. 5–21.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ilya Antipov•  5  Military Architecture, Old Rus', Medieval Art, Western Russia (Archaeology)Степанова Ю.В. Древнерусский погребальный костюм Верхневолжья. Тверь: Твер. гос. ун-т, 2009.Save to LibraryDownloadby Yuliya Stepanova•  3  History of Costume, Medieval Archaeology, Old Rus'С. М. Михеев. Различия в описаниях событий и взаимоотношения текстов борисоглебского цикла (2007)Save to LibraryDownloadby Savva M Mikheev•  2  Old Rus', Old Russian ChroniclesAbstracts of original contributions ASNC 2004 9th annual scientific session September 3-–October 3, 2004 New York, New YorkSave to LibraryDownloadby Ej Noble•  5  Old Rus', Vikings in the East, Varangians, Viking Age WeaponsThe Daugava 2001 expedition, its background and purpose. A short summarySave to LibraryDownloadby Rune Edberg•  5  Experimental Archaeology, Maritime Archaeology, Old Rus', Viking ShipsNextLast »Related TopicsKievan Rus'FollowFollowingMedieval RussiaFollowFollowingRussian HistoryFollowFollowingVikings in the EastFollowFollowingOld Russian ChroniclesFollowFollowingSlavic Languages and LiteraturesFollowFollowingSlavic StudiesFollowFollowingNovgorod the GreatFollowFollowingMedieval BalkansFollowFollowingOld Church SlavonicFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023