 
Trinidad’s Jews stick together | Jewish Telegraphic Agency
 
28 captures
22 Sep 2013 - 27 Sep 2022
May
SEP
Jan
15
2015
2016
2018
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20160915202650/http://www.jta.org/2007/09/16/news-opinion/world/trinidads-jews-stick-together
 
JTA
Follow
 Trinidad’s Jews stick together 
U.S.
Israel
World
Life & Culture
Opinion
Archive
Telegraph
Election 2016
 
Donate
 
Menu
JTA
Search
 
U.S.
Israel
World
Life & Culture
Opinion
Archive
Telegraph
Election 2016
 
Follow
 
Trinidad’s Jews stick together
By Larry LuxnerSeptember 16, 2007 9:00am 
 
Hans Stecher and Barbara Malins-Smith are leaders of Trinidad’s tiny Jewish community in Port of Spain, the capital. (Larry Luxner)
PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad (JTA) – Hindu temples, Muslim mosques and Catholic churches can be found all over this oil-exporting island famous for Carnival, callaloo soup and calypso.
But don’t look for synagogues in Trinidad – there aren’t any.
No more than 55 Jews live here, despite the fact that Trinidad & Tobago’s 1.3 million inhabitants make it the second-largest English-speaking nation in the Caribbean, exceeded in population only by Jamaica.
The few Jews who call this twin-island republic home maintain a very low profile because of the country’s turbulent racial history and a 1990 uprising by the Jamaat al-Muslimeen, a radical Muslim sect.
Tensions were exacerbated recently when U.S. and Trinidadian authorities arrested four men in a plot to blow up fuel-storage tanks at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport. The four allegedly had ties to an Islamic terrorist cell in Trinidad, and one of the suspects is a former member of the Guyanese Parliament.
Yet Jewish leaders here take pains to emphasize they “have no difficulty” with the established local Muslim community.
“We’ve never had any open conflict with them, we’ve never felt threatened and they have never targeted us,” said Barbara Malins-Smith, who has been nominated as Israel’s first honorary consul in Port of Spain, Trinidad’s capital. “But bearing in mind the current atmosphere, Jews throughout the world have to be extremely vigilant.”
Jews once had strong business and personal ties with Trinidad’s small but influential Christian Arab community, which traces its roots to Lebanon and Syria.
Trinidad’s ethnic and religious mix is unusually diverse for such a small country: 32 percent of its people are Roman Catholic, 28 percent are Protestant and 24 percent are Hindu. Another 6 percent are Muslim – a consequence of large-scale immigration from India during the 19th century, when they were imported as indentured servants to work the sugar plantations.
“Ours is a very small community,” Jewish community leader Hans Stecher told JTA. “We embrace into our midst people with Jewish roots who are interested in their heritage. We have many sympathizers. Some of our members are Jewish women married to Trinidadians and people descended from Sephardim who have feelings for their origins.”
Yet unlike Barbados, Curacao, Jamaica, Nevis and St. Thomas – where ancient synagogues and Hebrew gravestones attest to a Caribbean Jewish presence stretching back hundreds of years – Jews have lived in Trinidad only since the 1930s.
Curiously, the six-pointed Star of David is the symbol of Trinidad’s national police, and in one Jewish-built housing complex near Diego Martin – a suburb of Port of Spain – all the streets are named after Israeli pioneers like Chaim Weizmann, Golda Meir and David Ben-Gurion.
Although St. Vincent Street once had a synagogue, “most of the Jews here in Port of Spain were not really religious. The majority were intellectuals,” said Malins-Smith, who was born in Guyana and moved here in 1972.
For years Stecher, who until recently ran a large chain of duty-free retail stores, has been the most prominent Jew in Trinidad.
Stecher, 83, recalled how as a 15-year-old boy he arrived in Trinidad as a Viennese refugee with his family following Germany’s annexation of Austria. During World War II, he was among about 700 Jews interned as “enemy aliens,” though once the war was over most left for the United States, Canada or Venezuela.
The few Jews who stayed, like the Stecher family, prospered and became leaders in the local retailing, tourism and construction industries. They held fund-raisers for Israel, buried their dead in a special Jewish section of the Mucurapo Cemetery and sponsored a drama club that performed plays in Hebrew.
But independence from England in 1962 and the subsequent rise of the “black power” movement unnerved the Jewish community, which at the time numbered 30 or 40 families.
“The revolution was justified and it brought about a number of positive changes for Trinidad, but it was a bit frightening, and a lot of Jewish people didn’t want to be in that stew again, having lost everything in Europe,” Stecher said. “So they decided to pack up and leave for North America.”
Stecher says “the average Trinidadian knows very little about Jews.” Malins-Smith jokes that “people in the Caribbean think all Jews look like Chasidim.”
Malins-Smith says she rediscovered her own Jewish roots the day her sons, Alex and Philip, came home from school and announced they wanted to be Catholic, like everyone else.
“That’s when it hit me, that my Judaism would end with me, because I was an only child,” she said. “The rest of my family had all married out of the faith. They emigrated to Canada, and a majority of them are no longer Jewish.”
This lack of yiddishkeit in Trinidad inspired 31-year-old Web site designer Sarina Nicole Bland in 2003 to establish B’nai Shalom, an informal Jewish organization that meets in members’ homes for occasional services and Jewish holidays.
Perhaps the tiny community’s biggest success is getting Trinidad’s head of state, Patrick Manning, to visit Israel in November 2005 – the first time a prime minister from any Caribbean country had ever made an official visit to Israel, according to community members.
Manning, who is running for re-election this year, has publicly supported Israel, as have various Pentecostal and evangelical churches throughout Trinidad.
But not everyone here is favorably inclined toward Israel or the Jews.
A flurry of articles in local newspapers suggested that Israel and the United States are secretly planning to overthrow Venezuela’s President Hugo Chavez, using nearby Trinidad as a jumping-off point.
An article in the local Mirror tabloid – headlined “Is Manning a Mossad Agent?” – suggested that, “After all, with the Middle East in turmoil and with Israel pushing for further chaos by trying to set the stage for a U.S. strike on Iran, Venezuela’s supply of oil is critical to the U.S. economy, which incidentally is controlled by the Jews.”
Few Trinidadians take those accusations seriously, though Stecher says he and his fellow Jews are concerned.
“It’s all a callaloo,” he said, using the word for a spicy Caribbean dish. “There’s always the dilemma of whether one should respond or not to such charges. Sometimes it’s better not to respond.”
 Never miss breaking news and other must-read features. Like JTA on Facebook » 
Next: Mel Gibson visits Costa Rican president > 
Featured Stories
Why Uzbekistan's Jews already miss the iron fist of their late ruler
Campus Zionists don't need safe spaces. They need self-confidence.
6 revealing stats about Jewish nonprofits and the people who work for them
From matzah balls to footballs, two Jewish brothers recall their journey to the NFL
Trump vs. Clinton: Battle of the Jewish sons-in-law
Breaking News
Jewish man confesses to setting alight mosque attended by Orlando nightclub shooter
Donald Trump Jr. ripped for ‘gas chamber’ remark
Actions of pro-Palestinian group on campus not anti-Semitic, investigation finds
 
Stay Informed
Stay informed: JTA in your inbox
Jewish and Israel News in Your Inbox
 
 
Most ReadMost SharedTwitter 
Yeshiva U search committee to propose ex-NYC pulpit rabbi as presidentIsraeli fans swoon as Queen plays ‘Hava Nagila,’ Adam Lambert tries HebrewIvanka Trump’s Instagram gives Emma Watson credit for famous Hillel the Elder quoteWorld’s oldest man, a Holocaust survivor in Israel, to celebrate bar mitzvah 100 years lateDonald Trump Jr. posts Instagram photo of himself grouped with alt-right symbol Pepe the FrogWhy Uzbekistan’s Jews already miss the iron fist of their late rulerPoll shows Hillary Clinton trouncing Donald Trump among Jewish votersDay after stroke, Shimon Peres ‘responsive’ but remains sedatedWhy Uzbekistan’s Jews already miss the iron fist of their late rulerIsraeli fans swoon as Queen plays ‘Hava Nagila,’ Adam Lambert tries HebrewIn first, Hasidic woman elected to serve as Civil Court judge in NY stateTweets by @JTAnews
 
Election 2016
Donald Trump Jr. ripped for ‘gas chamber’ remark
Iran becomes an issue in New Jersey race — although both candidates opposed the deal
Obama’s $38B aid package to Israel comes with caveats: It’s generous, but on his terms
Poll shows Hillary Clinton trouncing Donald Trump among Jewish voters
Republican VP candidate Mike Pence reiterates ticket’s disavowal of David Duke
James Woolsey, ex-CIA boss and strident Iran deal critic, joins Trump campaign
 
 
 
 
Stay Informed
Stay informed: JTA in your inbox
Jewish and Israel News in Your Inbox
 
 
Also From 70 Faces Media
Kveller
13 Rosh Hashanah Cards That Are Absolutely BeautifulTeen Sues Parents for Posting Naked Baby Photos on FacebookMara Wilson Opens Up About Being a Child Actor & Her Mother’s DeathPregnant Olivia Wilde Blasts NYC Subway Riders for Not Giving Up Their Seats 
Jewniverse - The inspirational, the extraordinary, and the just plain strange
The Upper West Side Rabbi Who Moonlights as a Hollywood ActorChicago’s 96-Year-Old Barber from Auschwitz Has Finally RetiredMeet the Jewish Woman Being Kissed in the Iconic Times Square PhotoRabbi, May I Beat My Wife, Please? 
MyJewishLearning - The leading transdenominational website of Jewish information and education
Elul-Leigh County WomenHumor and My Authentically Black Jewish SelfRoasted Carrots with Tahini, Mint and Pistachios RecipeThe Main Thing is to Keep the Main Thing the Main Thing 
The Nosher
Roasted Carrots with Tahini, Mint and Pistachios RecipeVIDEO: How to Make Classic Holiday Brisket23 Make-Ahead Side Dishes for Rosh HashanahNew York Pastrami Pizza: Our New Favorite Jewish Mash-up 
 
U.S.
Israel
World
Life & Culture
Opinion
Archive
Telegraph
Election 2016
 
Advertise
Donate
Syndication
Newsletters
About Us
 
© 2016 Jewish Telegraphic Agency All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Help
Contact Us
 
© 2016 Jewish Telegraphic Agency All Rights Reserved.
Brought to you by
 
 
 