Esarhaddon Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Esarhaddon2,005 FollowersRecent papers in EsarhaddonTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleThe Assyrian Invasions of Egypt (673-663 B.C.) and the Final Expulsion of the Kushites,Abstract The purpose of this article is to reevaluate the Assyrian attempts to conquer Egypt in the days of Taharqa, King of Kush (690-664 B.C.) during the reigns of Esarhaddon (681-669 B.C.) and Ashurbanipal (669 - ca. 630 B.C.) kings... moreAbstractThe purpose of this article is to reevaluate the Assyrian attempts to conquer Egypt in the days of Taharqa, King of Kush (690-664 B.C.) during the reigns of Esarhaddon (681-669 B.C.) and Ashurbanipal (669 - ca. 630 B.C.) kings of Assyria. The historical backbone of this article is based on the Assyrian royal inscriptions. From these sources it becomes clear that the Assyrian war-machine conquered Egypt in a swift Blitzkrieg and tried to incorporate Egypt into the Assyrian realm. The fragmented Egyptian petty kingdoms, however, resisted the Assyrian occupation with the assistance of the Kushites. It is possible to shed additional light on the continuous struggle between the Assyrian overlords and the Egyptians from Queries to the Assyrian Sun god Shamash, letters from Babylonian scholars to the king of Assyria, Kushite royal inscriptions and Egyptian priestly commemorative stelae.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dan'el Kahn•  22  Assyriology, Egyptian History, Nubian-Egyptian Relations, AssyriaKazuko Watanabe,  "Die Siegelung der “Vasallenverträge Asarhaddons" durch den Gott Aššur",  BaM 16, 1985, pp.377-392, Tf.33, pdfSave to LibraryDownloadby Kazuko Watanabe•  8  Assyriology, Assyrian archaeology, ANE Cylinder Seals, Assyrian EmpireFrazer & Adalı 2021 "The just judgements that Ḫammu-rāpi, a former king, rendered": A New Royal Inscription in the Istanbul Archaeological Museums, Zeitschrift für Assyriologie und Vorderasiatische Archäologie 111, 231-262This article publishes a royal inscription preserved on a clay tablet housed in the Istanbul Archaeological Museums. The inscription, which was intended for display on a stele, commemorates a royal grant of tax exemptions to nine... moreThis article publishes a royal inscription preserved on a clay tablet housed in the Istanbul Archaeological Museums. The inscription, which was intended for display on a stele, commemorates a royal grant of tax exemptions to nine Babylonian cities and presents the royal protagonist as a second Ḫammu-rāpi. The name and titulary of the king in question are not preserved, and the attribution of the inscription is accordingly uncertain. Following Jean-Vincent Scheil's attribution of the text already in 1902, the study that accompanies an edition of the text argues that it should be attributed to Nabonidus, king of Babylon 556-539 BC, and explores its historical significance in this context.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mary Frazer and +1Selim Adalı•  9  Neo-Assyrian studies, History and Archaeology of the Ancient Near East, Neo-Babylonian period, AshurbanipalCrossing the Boundaries Literary Allusions to the Epic of Gilgamesh in the Account of Esarhaddon’s Egyptian CampaignSave to LibraryDownloadby Amitai Baruchi-Unna•  4  Esarhaddon, Assyrian Royal Inscriptions, Literary allusions, GilgameshAssyrian and biblical chronologies are they reliable?Mainstream historians, without exception, consider that co-regencies never existed among Assyrian dynasties, because according to an ideological dogma “the king never shares power, even with his Crown Prince”, but at the same time,... moreMainstream historians, without exception, consider that co-regencies never existed among Assyrian dynasties, because according to an ideological dogma “the king never shares power, even with his Crown Prince”, but at the same time, paradoxically, the biblical chronology of Thiele with its 9 fanciful co- regencies is accepted with blind faith. It should be emphasized that this widespread belief is completely contradicted by an accurate chronological analysis. Thus Sennacherib and Tiglath-pileser III, two famous Assyrian kings quoted in the Bible, played a crucial role in Israel during their co-regencies. Sennacherib's campaign to Judah, with the siege of Lachish and Jerusalem and the Battle of Eltekeh, occurred in 712 BCE during the 10th campaign of Sargon II (722-705) and the 3rd campaign of Sennacherib his coregent (715-705), which agrees exactly with the biblical account states that all these events occurred during the 14th year of Judean King Hezekiah (726-697) also dated 712 BCE (2Ki 18:13-17, 19:9; 2Ch 32:9- 10; Is 20:1, 36:1, 37:9). Similarly the Israelite king Menahem (771-760) had to pay a tribute (in 765 BCE) to an Assyrian king Pul (2Ki 15:19-20). The Assyrian word “pulu” means “the heir (ie Crown Prince)”, which is found in the name of Tiglath-pil-eser (2Ki 15:29). King Pul(as) reigned 36 years according to Josephus (Jewish Antiquities IX: 283-287) that exactly matches the Assyrian king (coregent) known by his Aramaic name Bar-Ga’yah “Son of Majesty” who reigned from 782 to 746 BCE.https://www.amazon.com/Assyrian-biblical-chronologies-they-reliable/dp/1326521217/Save to LibraryDownloadby Gerard GERTOUX•  18  Assyriology, Relative-Absolute dating, Neo-Assyrian studies, ChronologyThe Royal Inscriptions of Ashurbanipal (668–631 BC), Aššur-etel-ilāni (630–627 BC) and Sîn-šarra-iškun (626–612 BC), Kings of Assyria, Part 1. Royal Inscriptions of the Neo-Assyrian Period, Vol. 5. University Park: Eisenbrauns.http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/rinap/rinap5/index.html In this book, Jamie Novotny and Joshua Jeffers provide updated, reliable editions of seventy-one historical inscriptions of Ashurbanipal, including all historical inscriptions on clay... morehttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/rinap/rinap5/index.html In this book, Jamie Novotny and Joshua Jeffers provide updated, reliable editions of seventy-one historical inscriptions of Ashurbanipal, including all historical inscriptions on clay prisms, clay cylinders, wall slabs, and other stone objects from Nineveh, Assur, and Kalhu. Each text edition is accompanied by an English translation, a catalog of all exemplars, a comprehensive bibliography, and commentary containing notes and technical information. This volume also contains a general introduction to the reign of Ashurbanipal, his military campaigns, the corpus of inscriptions, previous studies, and chronology; translations of the relevant passages of several Mesopotamian chronicles and king lists; photographs of objects inscribed with texts of Ashurbanipal; indexes of museum and excavation numbers, selected publications, and proper names.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny and +1Joshua Jeffers•  20  Ancient History, Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Mesopotamia HistoryThe Royal Inscriptions of Esarhaddon, King of Assyria (680–669 BC). Royal Inscriptions of the Neo-Assyrian Period, Vol. 4. Winona Lake: Eisenbrauns (with Erle Leichty)http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/rinap/rinap4/index.html The Royal Inscription of Esarhaddon, King of Assyria (680-669 BC) is the inaugural volume of the Royal Inscriptions of the Neo-Assyrian Period Project. The volume provides reliable,... morehttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/rinap/rinap4/index.html The Royal Inscription of Esarhaddon, King of Assyria (680-669 BC) is the inaugural volume of the Royal Inscriptions of the Neo-Assyrian Period Project. The volume provides reliable, up-to-date editions of all of the known royal inscriptions of Esarhaddon, a son of Sennacherib who ruled Assyria for twelve years (680-669 BC). Editions of 143 firmly identifiable texts (which mostly describe successful battles and the completion of building projects, all done ad maiorem gloriam deorum), 29 poorly preserved late Neo-Assyrian inscriptions that may be attributed to him, and 10 inscriptions commissioned by his mother Naqia (Zakutu) and his wife Esharra-hammat are included. To make this corpus more user-friendly to both specialist and laymen, each text edition (with its English translation) is supplied with a brief introduction containing general information, a catalogue containing basic information about all exemplars, a commentary containing further technical information and notes, and a comprehensive bibliography (arranged chronologically from earliest to latest). The volume also includes: (1) a general introduction to the reign of Esarhaddon, the corpus of inscriptions, previous studies, and dating and chronology; (2) translations of the relevant passages of three Mesopotamian chronicles; (3) 19 photographs of objects inscribed with texts of Esarhaddon; (4) indexes of museum and excavation numbers and selected publications; and (5) indexes of proper names (Personal Names; Geographic, Ethnic, and Tribal Names; Divine, Planet, and Star Names; Gate, Palace, Temple, and Wall Names; and Object Names). The book is accompanied by a CD-ROM containing transliterations of selected inscriptions arranged in a 'musical score' format.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny•  20  Ancient History, Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Iraqi HistoryThe Assyrian Empire abd Cyprus .pdfThe book deals with the interaction between the Neo-Assyrian Empire and the Cypriot kingdoms in the 8th and 7th centuries B.C. It examines the Assyrian policies and how they were applied in the South Mediterranean coast as well as their... moreThe book deals with the interaction between the Neo-Assyrian Empire and the Cypriot kingdoms in the 8th and 7th centuries B.C.It examines the Assyrian policies and how they were applied in the South Mediterranean coast as well as their first state controlled world economy. It looks into the possibility whether the Assyrians established a nascent navy in the Mediterranean during the late Neo-Assyrian period.It compares how the Assyrians behaved in Dilmun the other extreme border outpost of the Neo-Assyrian Empire. Finally the book examines  in detail how Cyprus prospered and survived in the shadow of the Assyrian empire.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas P. Parpas•  16  Phoenicians, Ancient History of Cyprus, Ancient Near East, Ancient Trade & Commerce (Archaeology)Taharqa, King of Kush and the AssyriansIn this article the relationships between Esarhaddon, king of Assyria (681-669 B.C.) and Taharqa, King of Kush (690-664 B.C.) are surveyed. The years between 690-683 are regarded as years of peace, while Kushite intervention in the... moreIn this article the relationships between Esarhaddon, king of Assyria (681-669 B.C.) and Taharqa,King of Kush (690-664 B.C.) are surveyed. The years between 690-683 are regarded as years ofpeace, while Kushite intervention in the Levant from 683 and probably until 679 prompted Assyriato react and gain control over the Levant and finally conquer Egypt. This conquest is reflected in theAssyrian Royal Inscriptions and Annals of Esarhaddon. An extraordinary prayer by Taharqa toAmun, previously dated by P. Vernus to 677/6-674/3 B. C., records Taharqa's defeat and the captureof his crown-prince, Ushanhuru in 671 B.C. and Taharqa's request from Amun to guard the life ofhis sons and concubines and to return things to their previous state of affairs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Dan'el Kahn•  6  Egyptian History, Kush, 25th Dynasty (Egyptology), Assyrian EmpireTHE NEO ASSYRIAN STATE CONTROLLED ECONOMYDuring the Neo Assyrian period, Assyrianization created a world economy that was served by a trade network that provided faster, better and more efficient communication that made the world smaller and more mobile.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas P. Parpas•  5  Neo-Assyrian studies, Esarhaddon, tamkaru, Neo Assyrian Trade NetworkWAS A NASCENT NEO-ASSYRIAN NAVY IN OPERATION IN THE MEDITERRANEAN?The Neo Assyrians eventually became the masters of the Eastern Mediterranean. Is it possible that a nascent Neo Assyrian navy was in operation in the Mediterranean in the late Neo Assyrian period?Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas P. Parpas•  5  Neo-Assyrian studies, Ashurbanipal, Sargon, EsarhaddonCHANGE IN NEO-ASSYRIAN IMPERIAL ADMINISTRATION: Evolution and RevolutionSave to LibraryDownloadby Natalie Naomi May•  60  Gender Studies, Assyriology, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Mesopotamia HistoryState Archives of Assyria Online (SAAo) Projecthttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/saao/ State Archives of Assyria (SAA) provides editions of texts from the Neo-Assyrian period, organized by genre: administrative letters, administrative records, astrological reports, court poetry, decrees,... morehttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/saao/ State Archives of Assyria (SAA) provides editions of texts from the Neo-Assyrian period, organized by genre: administrative letters, administrative records, astrological reports, court poetry, decrees, extispicy queries to the sun-god, grants, legal transactions of the royal court, priestly letters, prophecies, royal ritual, scholarly letters, treaties and loyalty oaths, and votive donations. Since 1987, the University-of-Helsinki-based Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project (NATCP), which was founded and directed by Simo Parpola, has published twenty-one of its twenty-two planned volumes, as well as over forty other books in its supplemental series State Archives of Assyria Studies (SAAS) and State Archives of Assyria Cuneiform Texts (SAACT). The 5056 Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian texts published in the SAA series, as well as in one volume of SAAS (volume 2), primarily originate from British excavations carried out in the citadel of Nineveh (modern Kuyunjik) between 1850 and 1905 and those conducted at Calah (modern Nimrud) in the early 1950s, and, therefore, most of them are now housed in the British Museum in London; some are presently in the Iraq Museum (Baghdad). In 2005, at a time when many of the SAA volumes were out of print or difficult to get hold of, longtime NATCP member Karen Radner (then UCL, now LMU Munich) sought out ways of making NATCP's rich and varied heritage data accessible to a wider audience. In collaboration with Eleanor Robson (then University of Cambridge, now UCL) and Steve Tinney (University of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), this led to the creation of State Archives of Assyria online (SAAo), with the first parts of the dataset available from 2007 and 2009 via the open-access web resources Knowledge and Power and Assyrian Empire Builders. The aim of SAAo, which has been part of the LMU-Munich-based Munich Open-access Cuneiform Corpus Initiative (MOCCI; directed by Karen Radner and Jamie Novotny) since August 2015, is to make the 5056 Neo-Assyrian texts published in the State Archives of Assyria Series available online for free in a fully searchable and richly annotated (lemmatised) format, as well as to widely disseminate, facilitate, and promote the active use of these important cuneiform sources in academia and beyond. SAAo and MOCCI's electronic text editions are implemented with and hosted on the Open Richly Annotated Cuneiform Corpus (ORACC; http://oracc.org). For further details, see the "About the Project" page.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny and +4Nathan MorelloKaren RadnerMikko LuukkoMelanie Groß•  20  Ancient History, Digital Humanities, Near Eastern Studies, AssyriologyTaharqa Routed by Assarhaddon, Memphis Sacked, Kush / Ethiopia Driven from Lower Egypt. Part VIII (2010)Son of Piye and Abale, younger brother of Shebitqu, Taharqa (690 – 664) reigned in Kemet (Egypt) and Kush (Ethiopia) at the times of the Assyrian zenith. There could not be worse time for a polytheist pharaoh to merge Kush / Ethiopia and... moreSon of Piye and Abale, younger brother of Shebitqu, Taharqa (690 – 664) reigned in Kemet (Egypt) and Kush (Ethiopia) at the times of the Assyrian zenith. There could not be worse time for a polytheist pharaoh to merge Kush / Ethiopia and Egypt under his scepter. The monotheistic emperors of Assyria Sharrukin (722 – 705 BCE; Sharru Kinu: ´Stable King´ in Assyrian; also known as Sargon, through his mention in Ancient Greek historiography) and Sennacherib (705 – 681 BCE; Sin Ahe Eriba: ´Sin has elevated the brother´ in Assyrian) reassessed the Assyrian monotheistic imperial ideology, as heirs of the Sumerian – Akkadian universalist ideal, and reigned as "Emperors of the Universe". This signified unprecedented military expansionism, exportation of Assyrian administration to all the faraway places of the immense empire, and elimination of all polytheistic priesthoods and associate administrations from the invaded territories. From Caucasus to the central parts of Arabia, and from the Iranian plateau to Cyprus and the westernmost confines of today´s Turkey, an area of ca. 3.3 million km2 was ruled by one emperor – for the first time in the History of the Mankind. First published on 27th March 2010 in AfroArticles, Buzzle and American ChronicleRepublished in the portal of the Oromo Parliamentarians:https://www.oromoparliamentarians.org/English/Facts%20about%20Oromo/Kush%20-Oromo%20Part%20VIII.htmSave to LibraryDownloadby Shamsaddin Megalommatis•  91  Ancient Egyptian Religion, History, Ancient History, Cultural HistoryIsrael and the Assyrians: Deuteronomy, the Succession Treaty of Esarhaddon, and the Nature of Subversion. Ancient Near East Monographs. Atlanta, Ga.: SBL, 2014.Israel and the Assyrians undermines the popular interpretation of Deuteronomy as an anti-imperial, subversive tract. The book draws on theories of adaptation and allusion to provide the theoretical foundation for a discussion of... moreIsrael and the Assyrians undermines the popular interpretation of Deuteronomy as an anti-imperial, subversive tract. The book draws on theories of adaptation and allusion to provide the theoretical foundation for a discussion of subversion and its detection. It thereby tests the idea of subversive intent against the social context in which it would have functioned. It contains detailed textual analyses of Deuteronomy 13 and 28 in relation to the Succession Treaty of Esarhaddon and other ancient Near Eastern curse and treaty traditions. It also reflects on the historical circumstances of the seventh century BCE, with particular attention to questions of bilingualism of authors and audiences. The book’s argument challenges one of the major touchstones for the pre-exilic dating of Deuteronomy as well as problematizing the Israelites’ wider relationship with the Assyrian Empire.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carly L. Crouch•  19  Translation Studies, Assyriology, Translation theory, AdaptationTHE VIZIER AND THE BROTHER: SARGON II'S BROTHER AND VIZIER SĪN-AḪU-UṢUR AND THE NEO-ASSYRIAN COLLATERAL BRANCHES 1It is now firmly established that Sargon II's brother Sīn-aḫu-uṣur was also his vizier (sukkallu). He was the addressee of many letters written by the subjects of the Empire. He appears on a number of contemporary documents. The present... moreIt is now firmly established that Sargon II's brother Sīn-aḫu-uṣur was also his vizier (sukkallu). He was the addressee of many letters written by the subjects of the Empire. He appears on a number of contemporary documents. The present study demonstrates that the correspondence of Sargon's brother and vizier, together with some historical documents, show that Sīn-aḫu-uṣur was ruling Babylonia on behalf of his brother, the king. The paper will analyse the spheres of the king's brother's involvement in the state affairs. The article investigates the extraordinary status and functions of the sukkallu of Sargon, who restored the grandeur of this office based on the Middle Assyrian precedent especially for his brother. The author further explores Ḫarrān as the seat of the collateral royal family members and the role of the precedent of the Middle Assyrian dynasty of sukkallus, the kings of ḪaniGALbat, 2) in the ideology of the Sargonids. Lastly, I will argue that the relationship between Sargon and Sīn-aḫu-uṣur served a model for Esarhaddon in his division of power between his two sons and heirs, Assurba-nipal and Šamaš-šumu-ukīn.Save to LibraryDownloadby Natalie Naomi May•  44  Assyriology, Mesopotamian Archaeology, Mesopotamia History, Mesopotamian ReligionsThe Brook of Egypt and Assyrian Policy on the Egyptian Border, Tel Aviv 6 (1979), pp. 68-90.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nadav Na'aman•  6  Esarhaddon, tiglath-pileser III, Gaza, Sinai Peninsula, EgyptThe Display of Esarhaddon's Succession Treaty at Kalhu as a Means of Internal Political ControlThe religious nature of Esarhaddon's Succession Treaty by reason of the visual, textual and findspot aspects of the tablets, extensively analyzed by previous scholarship, should not obscure the fact that Esarhaddon may have taken... moreThe religious nature of Esarhaddon's Succession Treaty by reason of the visual, textual and findspot aspects of the tablets, extensively analyzed by previous scholarship, should not obscure the fact that Esarhaddon may have taken advantage of those aspects, and earlier practices concerning the display of vassal-treaties, to hide his fears of treason from his intended target audience: Assyrian officials of high-rank.Save to LibraryDownloadby Cristina Barcina•EsarhaddonHistories Twice Told: Deuteronomy 1-3 and the Hittite Treaty Prologue TraditionThe many discrepancies between the historical accounts in Deut 1-3 and the parallel accounts in Exodus and Numbers led classical scholarship to conclude that the author of Deuteronomy could not have intended his work to be read together... moreThe many discrepancies between the historical accounts in Deut 1-3 and the parallel accounts in Exodus and Numbers led classical scholarship to conclude that the author of Deuteronomy could not have intended his work to be read together with those alternative traditions. A cogent historical record, it is reasoned, cannot have conflicting versions of the same events. In this paper, I claim that an ancient literary model for precisely such activity was available to the author of Deuteronomy in the Hittite treaty prologue tradition. Building on work by Moshe Weinfeld and his students, I begin by highlighting the many elements and motifs of Deut 1-3 that find parallel in the Hittite treaty prologue tradition, demonstrating that the author of Deuteronomy was familiar with this tradition. In the second part of the paper I analyze the four successive treaties between the Hittite kingdom and the kings of Amurru. As we move from treaty to treaty we see history retold again and again and that the various retellings of the same event differ markedly one from another. I demonstrate that even as the Hittite kings redrafted their historical accounts in accord with the needs of the moment, both they and their vassals would read these accounts while retaining, and recalling the earlier, conflicting versions of events. Drawing inspiration from studies of the El Amarna letters, I turn to the field of international relations for a social science perspective to explain why the Hittite kings composed such conflicting histories and how, in turn, these were read and interpreted by their vassals. Finally, I return to Deuteronomy and discuss the implications of this practice for our understanding of the historical accounts of Deuteronomy 1-3 within the context of the Pentateuch, where other, conflicting versions of those same stories are found.Save to LibraryDownloadby Joshua Berman•  25  Hittitology, Hebrew Bible, Covenant Theology, HittiteKazuko Watanabe, “Diversity and Tradition in Esarhaddon’s Reform,” in Ada-Taggar-Cohen (ed.), International Cultural  Diversity in the Ancient Near East, 2021, 23-52.In 672 BC, the Assyrian king Esarhaddon (reigned 680-669 BC) carried out a sort of reform through Esarhaddon’s Succession Oath Documents (ESOD). This article will analyze: the characteristics of the tablets and the text of ESOD, the... moreIn 672 BC, the Assyrian king Esarhaddon (reigned 680-669 BC) carried out a sort of reform through Esarhaddon’s Succession Oath Documents (ESOD). This article will analyze: the characteristics of the tablets and the text of ESOD, the importance of the seals and their use in sealing by the god Aššur, how the tablets could have been deified, and how they brought about a new stage in the religious and political situation on a wide scale in terms of diversity and tradition of Esarhaddon’s reform.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kazuko Watanabe•  10  Assyrian Empire, Neo-Assyrian studies, Ancient Seals and Sealings, EsarhaddonThe Royal Inscriptions of Esarhaddon. An At-A-Glance Akkadian Dictionary of the RINAP 4 Corpus. In: State Archives of Assyria Bulletin, Vol. 19: pp. 29-86Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny•  19  Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Akkadian Language, Ancient Near EastKazuko Watanabe, "Innovations in Esarhaddon’s Succession Oath Documents Considered from the Viewpoint of the Documents’ Structure", State Archives of Assyria Bulletin 21, 2016, pp.173-215.The structure of Esarhaddon’s Succession Oath Documents (ESOD) has been completely clarified through the Tayinat version which had been excavated at Tell Tayinat. This structure will be the basis for future discussion as to what ESOD... moreThe structure of Esarhaddon’s Succession Oath Documents (ESOD) has been completely clarified through the Tayinat version which had been excavated at Tell Tayinat. This structure will be the basis for future discussion as to what ESOD are.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kazuko Watanabe•  8  Assyriology, Deuteronomy, Assyrian Empire, Neo-Assyrian studiesTemple Building in Assyria. Evidence from Royal Inscriptions. In: Boda, Mark J.; Novotny, Jamie (eds.) : From the Foundations to the Crenellations: Essays on Temple Building in the Ancient Near East and Hebrew Bible. Alter Orient und Altes Testament, Vol. 366. Münster: Ugarit-Verlag. pp. 109-140Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny•  20  Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Iraqi History, Ancient Near EastDie neuassyrischen Ursprünge der Kanonformel in Deuteronomium 13,1Expanding on previous work, this chapter shows the close connection between Deut 13 and the Neo-Assyrian treaty tradition. It shows how the “canon-formula” of Deut 13:1 belongs in its context and does not represent a secondary addition,... moreExpanding on previous work, this chapter shows the close connection between Deut 13 and the Neo-Assyrian treaty tradition. It shows how the “canon-formula” of Deut 13:1 belongs in its context and does not represent a secondary addition, as many scholars have recently claimed. Contrary to what is widely held, Deut 4:2 reworks Deut 13:1, rather than serving as its literary source. The increasing tendency of many scholars to construct a “covenant theology” stratum in the legal corpus, dated to the post-exilic period and regarded as a secondary legalizing development from an assumed non-nomistic, pre-exilic Israelite religion is challenged. The important recent discovery of a display copy of a version of Esarhaddon’s loyalty oath in the temple cella at Tel Tayinat is discussed extensively.Keywords:Kanonformel, Bundestheologische Redaktion, Bundestheologie, Tel Tayinat, Esarhaddon, VTE, Treueid, Asarhaddon, Dtn 13,1; Dtn 4,2; Juha Pakkala; Eckart Otto; Erbefolgevertrag; Dtn 28; neuassyrischen; neuassyrien; Deuteronomium; Gesetzeskorpus; Loyalitätseid; Timo Veijola; Intertextualität; Julius Wellhausen; „Seidels Gesetz“; Vergesetz¬lichung; Verbindung zwischen Religion und Gesetz; tuppi adê; Tempelrolle; Bund; canon formula; covenant theology redaction, Seidel’s Law; Vassal Treaty of Esarhaddon; Deut 13:1; Deut 4:2; Neo-Assyria; legal corpus; intertextuality; Seidel’s Law; Temple Scroll; relation between law and religion; covenant; treaty.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bernard M Levinson•  106  Religion, Ancient History, Intellectual History, LawLecture-15 (ppt.): The "Dark Age" in the early Iron Age Near East to the Neo-Assyrian Empire, ca. 1200–612/605 BCE (Gregory Mumford; 2022; 251+ slides)ABSTRACT: The following lecture (no. 15) begins with a summary of the nature of a "Dark Age" covering Mesopotamia and adjacent regions, namely a period of roughly three centuries from ca. 1200-900 BCE. Despite a decrease in... moreABSTRACT: The following lecture (no. 15) begins with a summary of the nature of a "Dark Age" covering Mesopotamia and adjacent regions, namely a period of roughly three centuries from ca. 1200-900 BCE. Despite a decrease in textual-pictorial sources, some Assyrian kings are better known and revitalized Assyria briefly, including Tiglath-pileser I (1114-1076 BCE).  The lecture proceeds next to cover the Neo-Assyrian period/empire, the advent of which is usually equated with King Ashur-dan II (ca. 934–912 BCE).  The remainder of the lecture provides a summary of the achievements of and events affiliated with a sequence of 18 Assyrian rulers --in relation to Babylonia, Elam, and other lands (e.g., the Levant): Adad-Nirari II (911–891 BC); Tukulti-Ninurta II (890–884 BC); Ashurnasirpal II (883-859 BC); Shalmaneser III (858-824 BC); Shamsi-Adad V (823-811 BC); Adad-nirari III (810-783 BC); Shalmaneser IV (782-773 BC); Ashur-Dan III (772-755 BC); Ashur-Nirari V (754-745 BC); Tiglath-pileser III (744-727 BC); Shalmaneser V (726-722 BC); Sargon II (721-705 BC); Sennacherib (704-681 BC); Esarhaddon (681/680-669 BC); Ashurbanipal (668-?627 BC); Ashur-Etelli-ilani (?627-?624 BC); Sin-Sharra-Ishkun (?623-612 BC); and Ashur-uballit II (612-610 BC). The lecture concludes with the last years in which an allied Egyptian (Saite) army and Assyrian force holdout in West Syria (610-605 BC) prior to the Neo-Babylonian's final defeat of this residual Neo-Assyrian-Egyptian alliance in 605 BC. UPDATED: 2022 Spring offering.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gregory Mumford•  30  Ancient History, Archaeology, Near Eastern Archaeology, AnthropologyEsarhaddon's Treaty with Baal and Assyrian Provinces Along the Phoenician Coast, Rivista degli Studi Fenici 22 (1994), pp. 3-8.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nadav Na'aman•  5  Esarhaddon, Assyrian provinces, Baal King of Tyre, Vassal TreatySennacherib's Campaign Against Judah: A Source Analysis of Isaiah 36–37 (Society for Old Testament Study Monographs) (Forthcoming)Sennacherib's Campaign Against Judah The campaign of Sennacherib against Judah is one of the most widely researched in Biblical Studies and Ancient Near East, and one that also poses scholarly challenges. Allusion to the event is found in... moreSennacherib's Campaign Against JudahThe campaign of Sennacherib against Judah is one of the most widely researched in Biblical Studies and Ancient Near East, and one that also poses scholarly challenges. Allusion to the event is found in Isaiah, Kings, and Chronicles, but there is no correlation between the Assyrian and Biblical descriptions of the same event. Dan’el Kahn offers a textcritical analysis of these Biblical passages that allude to the military events. Detecting repetitions, breaks in the narrative, and contradictions and inconsistencies in the texts, he traces and reconstructs different and discrete sources. Kahn demonstrates that the Biblical passages are based on earlier sources that were later edited and revised by a third hand. Based on historical events that are found in non-Biblical texts, he also offers new dates for the sources. He claims that the narrative was written for the book of Isaiah, arguing that it predates the version found in KingsSave to LibraryDownloadby Dan'el Kahn•  13  26th Dynasty (Egyptology), The Book of Isaiah, Taharqa, EsarhaddonDie Eroberungen von Ägypten durch Asarhaddon und Aššurbanipal, UF 47 (2016),  251-263Save to LibraryDownloadby Katsuji Sano•  9  Ancient Near East, Ancient Egyptian History, Assyrian Empire, Borders and FrontiersAshkelon under the Assyrian Empire, in J.D. Schloen (ed.), Exploring the Longue Durée: Essays in Honor of Lawrence E. Stager, Winona Lake 2009, pp. 351-359.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nadav Na'aman•  6  Taharqa, Esarhaddon, queries to Shamash, tiglath-pileser IIIAssyrian Royal Titulary in BabyloniaSave to LibraryDownloadby Mattias  Karlsson•  18  Assyriology, Propaganda, Ideology, AssyriaM. Ceravolo - F. Pacelli 2021, La creazione della statua di culto come atto religioso, politico e ideologico: il caso di Esarhaddon (680-669 a.C.), in "Quaderni di Vicino Oriente" XVIIIn 689 BC, the Assyrian king Sennacherib destroyed Babylon and deported the statues of the Babylonian gods to Assyria. In order to restore the political and religious relations between Assyria and Babylonia, Esarhaddon undertakes to... moreIn 689 BC, the Assyrian king Sennacherib destroyed Babylon and deported the statues of the Babylonian gods to Assyria. In order to restore the political and religious relations between Assyria and Babylonia, Esarhaddon undertakes to renovate the Babylonian statues and relocate them in their temples in southern Mesopotamia. This paper aims to provide an analysis of some royal inscriptions dealing with the (re)creation of the divine effigies and offer an interpretation of their salient passages.Save to LibraryDownloadby Marinella Ceravolo•  8  Mesopotamian Religions, Ritual Theory, Assyrian Empire, Neo-Assyrian studiesRevisiting the ‘and’ in Law and Covenant in the Hebrew Bible: What the Evidence from Tell Tayinat Suggests about the Relationship between Law and Religion in the Ancient Near East.“Revisiting the ‘and’ in Law and Covenant in the Hebrew Bible: What the Evidence from Tell Tayinat Suggests about the Relationship between Law and Religion in the Ancient Near East,” examines how the concepts of law, covenant, and... more“Revisiting the ‘and’ in Law and Covenant in the Hebrew Bible: What the Evidence from Tell Tayinat Suggests about the Relationship between Law and Religion in the Ancient Near East,” examines how the concepts of law, covenant, and religion have been treated in the past century of scholarship within biblical studies. Using both the work of George Mendenhall and the widely held view of a Bundestheologische Redaktion [covenant-theological redaction] of Deuteronomy as case studies, I argue that scholars theorizing about the development of law and covenant theology in Israelite religion have perpetuated a binary in biblical scholarship that privileges religion over law. As a result, scholars have minimized the legal origins of covenant theology (which is derived from political treaty tradition) and view law as an originally independent concept that was imported into Israelite religion. A straightforward reading of the evidence from Near Eastern treaty tradition, including the copy of Esarhaddon’s Vassal Treaty that was found at Tell Tayinat in Southeastern Turkey, suggests an alternate conclusion: that law and religion were inseparable concepts in the ancient Near East. The Tayinat material is reviewed extensively here and color plates are provided.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bernard M Levinson•  20  Jewish Law, Legal History, Biblical Studies, Old TestamentThe Treaty of Esarhaddon with the Eastern neighbours (672 BC)This paper deals with a surviving Neo-Assyrian Esarhaddon Vassal treaty which dates 672 BC. The present article, which is the part of the more extensive research, is dedicated to the translation and analysis of the text. The author pays... moreThis paper deals with a surviving Neo-Assyrian Esarhaddon Vassal treaty which dates 672 BC. The present article, which is the part of the more extensive research, is dedicated to the translation and analysisof the text. The author pays special attention to the problems related to the reasons of concluding the treaty and its special characteristics. The investigation of this text leads to more profound understanding of the mutual relations between Assyria and Media at the dawn of Neo-Assyrian Empire. Besides it provides a great opportunity to examine the complicated problem of the Assyrian throne succession. The author gives special attention to the term which Assyrians used to designate this document and to the grammar constructions particular to the text.Save to LibraryDownloadby Anastasia Moskaleva•  9  Assyriology, Assyria, Assyrian Empire, Neo-Assyrian studiesEsarhaddon's accession to the Assyrian throne, In Kateřina Šašková, Lukáš Pecha and Petr Charvát (eds.), Shepherds of the Black-headed People: The Royal Office vis-à-vis godhead in ancient Mesopotamia. Plzeň: Západočeská univerzita, 2010, pp. 147–177.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kateřina Šašková•  3  Assyriology, Assyria, EsarhaddonDavide Nadali, 2008, Assyrian High-Relief Bricks from Nineveh and the Fragments of a Royal NameSave to LibraryDownloadby Davide Nadali•  10  Brick and tile (Archaeology), Assyrian archaeology, Assyrian Empire, Neo-Assyrian studiesThe Assyrian Empire and Cyprus With some references to contemporary Iraq . Presentation at the Department of History and Archaeology - University of Cyprus 30.10.2017Save to LibraryDownloadby Andreas P. Parpas•  11  Archaeology, Ancient Military History, Mesopotamian history, EsarhaddonGetting Smashed at the Victory Celebration or What Happened to Esarhaddon's so-called Vassal Treaties and WhySave to LibraryDownloadby Jo A Scurlock•  4  Iconoclasm, Assyrian Empire, Esarhaddon, MedesEhulhul, Egipar, Emelamana, and Sîn's Akītu House. A Study of Assyrian Building Activities at HarrānSave to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny•  19  Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Iraqi History, Akkadian LanguageMICROFINANCE BANKING IN NIGERIA. (OSCOTECH MICRO FNANCE BANK'S EXPERIENCEThe study investigated the microfinance Bank in Nigeria. Oscotech Micro Finance Bank Experience. OSCOTECH Microfinance Bank however, needs more efforts to roll out more enriched loan packages and to enlighten the customers to be able to... moreThe study investigated the microfinance Bank in Nigeria. Oscotech Micro Finance Bank Experience. OSCOTECH Microfinance Bank however, needs more efforts to roll out more enriched loan packages and to enlighten the customers to be able to fully utilize the micro loans available at the bank. The Small Business Owners must also be encouraged to cultivate culture of Business sustenance so that consistency and experience is guaranteed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Engr. Akindoyin  Segun Julius•EsarhaddonArchival Texts of the Assyrian EmpireWebsite: http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/atae/ Numerous legal and administrative texts have been discovered at numerous site across the Assyrian Empire. These include the principal Assyrian cities Nineveh (Kuyunjik), Assur (Qalat Sherqat)... moreWebsite: http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/atae/ Numerous legal and administrative texts have been discovered at numerous site across the Assyrian Empire. These include the principal Assyrian cities Nineveh (Kuyunjik), Assur (Qalat Sherqat) and Kalhu (Nimrud; biblical Calah), as well as smaller provincial centers such as Burmarina (Tell Shiukh Fawqani), Dur-Katlimmu (Tell Sheikh Hamad), Guzana (Tell Halaf), Huzirina (Sultantepe), Imgur-Enlil (Balawat), Ma'allanate (unidentified), Marqasu (Kahramanmaraş), Sam'al (Zinçirli), Šibaniba (Tell Billa), Til-Barsip (Tell Ahmar), and Tušhan (Ziyaret Tepe). The aim of the Archival Texts of the Assyrian Empire (ATAE) Project is to expand the Nineveh-focused State Archives of Assyria online (SAAo) corpus by creating a complete, open-access corpus of Neo-Assyrian archival texts. Unlike SAAo, the linguistical-annotated texts in the ATAE corpus are arranged by their provenance and the archive in which they were unearthed. The archive designations used by ATAE follow Olof Pedersén, Archives and Libraries in the Ancient Near East 1500-300 B.C., Bethesda 1987, a PDF of which can be downloaded here. Neo-Assyrian archival texts provide important insights into the economic and legal history of the Assyrian Empire, while also presenting modern scholars with vital impressions of societal structures and private lives of the period. The aim of the project is to make this text corpus easily accessible to scholars, students, and the general public.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny and +7Karen RadnerPoppy TushinghamMikko LuukkoBetina FaistFaruk AkyüzFrauke WeiershäuserMary Frazer•  20  Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Iraqi History, Akkadian LanguageNew Proposed Chronological Sequence and Dates of Composition of Esarhaddon’s Babylon Inscriptions Revisited. In: Journal of Cuneiform Studies, Vol. 67: pp. 145-168The Babylon Inscriptions of Esarhaddon, perhaps the best-known group of texts in the extant corpus this seventh-century Assyrian king, have for decades presented a real challenge in cracking the various levels of ideology imbedded in... moreThe Babylon Inscriptions of Esarhaddon, perhaps the best-known group of texts in the extant corpus this seventh-century Assyrian king, have for decades presented a real challenge in cracking the various levels of ideology imbedded in their contents, as well as the chronological order in which they were written. The latter issue is closely tied to the fact that several clay prisms inscribed with these texts are all dated by the formula šanat rēš šarrūti, "accession year. " This paper will argue that the intentional dating of the Babylon Inscriptions reflects historical reality and that Esarhaddon's did not deliberately falsify the dates of inscriptions. It will also closely examine the contents of the known texts in this small subcorpus of this Assyrian king's official inscriptions and suggest new dates of composition for each text (especially Babylon A and Babylon D), as well as a new chronological sequencing of the inscriptions. Lastly, this paper will present updated editions of Babylon G and Babylon F based on an old nonphysical join proposed by A. R. Millard and a new international join discovered by the author.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny•  20  Ancient History, Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Iraqi HistoryFamily Ties. Assurbanipal’s Family Revisited. In: Luukko, M.; Svärd, S.; Mattila, R. (eds.) : Of God(s), Trees, Kings, and Scholars: Neo-Assyrian and Related Studies in Honour of Simo Parpola. Studia Orientalia, Vol. 106. Helsinki: Finnish Oriental Society. pp. 167-177Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny and +1Jennifer Singletary•  20  Assyriology, Iraqi History, Akkadian Language, Sumerian & Akkadian literatureThe Limitations of ‘Resonance.’ A Response to Joshua Berman on Historical and Comparative  Method.In 2011, Joshua Berman published a contribution to the ongoing scholarly debate over the sources and dating of Deuteronomy: 'CTH 133 and the Hittite Provenance of Deuteronomy 13.' Berman asserted that a Hittite treaty text from the... moreIn 2011, Joshua Berman published a contribution to the ongoing scholarly debate over the sources and dating of Deuteronomy: 'CTH 133 and the Hittite Provenance of Deuteronomy 13.'  Berman asserted that a Hittite treaty text from the fifteenth century B. C. E. (Catalogue des Textes hittites [CTH] 133) provides a closer parallel to Deut 13 than does the seventh century Neo-Assyrian text commonly known as the Vassal Treaty of Esarhaddon or, more technically, Esarhaddon’s Succession Treaty (henceforth, EST). In his estimation, CTH 133 is therefore the preferred literary source for Deut 13. On the basis of those parallels with CTH 133, as well as other similarities that he finds between Deuteronomy and Hittite treaty forms, Berman contended that Deut 13 should be dated to the second millennium B. C. E. The significance of this argument goes to the heart of scholarly methodology and the historical critical method of modern biblical scholarship. If correct, Berman’s claim would overturn the standard scholarly position that the core of Deuteronomy dates to the seventh century, thereby abolishing an Archimedian point scholars use to date other biblical texts. Because of these methodological implications, we included a brief discussion of Berman’s proposals in an article that recently appeared in this journal, 'Between the Covenant Code and Esarhaddon’s Succession Treaty: Deuteronomy 13 and the Composition of Deuteronomy' (2012). The focus of the article, consistent with the theme issue of the journal, was to preview some of the main issues in Deuteronomy research that we will address in the monograph we are preparing for the Yale Anchor Bible Reference Library, Deuteronomy and the Pentateuch. We therefore covered a wide range of methodological and interpretive issues, including a brief discussion of Berman’s proposals. We argued that Berman’s rejection of EST as a source for Deuteronomy does not take due notice of the unique parallels between EST and Deut 28 that lend weight to the evidence for the connection between EST and Deut 13. In addition, we rejected Berman’s claims of a source relationship between CTH 133 and Deut 13, and his dating of the text to the Late Bronze Age, because there is no clear evidence for contact between Israelite scribes and fifteenth century Hittite texts, either in the second millennium or later. Berman has now prepared a full-length rejoinder, which appears in this issue. What follows is our response to that rejoinder.  Berman has reframed the debate as a case study on the comparative method. In addition to responding to our specific criticisms of his work, Berman appears to have two main goals: 1) to advocate for a more inclusive consideration of extra-biblical texts as sources for biblical texts – one consequence of which, he assumes, would be a broader range of potential dates for such biblical texts; and 2) to define the criteria for identifying source texts by highlighting ways in which scholars incorrectly narrow their list of extra-biblical sources. His critiques are rather dramatic, and we have given them our full attention in this response. In the process, we have found that the primary and secondary sources on which Berman relies actually provide stronger arguments for our own views, both textually and at a theoretical level. The clearest way to examine these issues is to start with the specific textual arguments and claims Berman makes about the Hittite provenance of Deut 13, and then to step back and consider the larger theoretical structure of his position. Keywords:  Esarhaddon’s Succession Treaty, Vassal Treaty of Esarhaddon, canon formula, CTH 133, Joshua Berman, Covenant Code, Tel Tayinat, EST, VTE, Hittite treaty, biblical law, New Historicism, New Criticism, biblical scholarship, compositional history, Deuteronomy, succession, Assurbanipal, Deut 28, Dtn 28, Deut 13, Dtn 13, Pentateuch, law and narrative.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bernard M Levinson and +1Jeffrey Stackert•  97  Philology, Comparative Religion, History, Ancient HistoryRoyal Inscriptions of the Neo-Assyrian Period (RINAP) Projecthttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/rinap/ Numerous royally commissioned texts were composed between 744 BC and 609 BC, a period during which Assyria became the dominant power in southwestern Asia. Eight hundred and fifty to nine hundred such... morehttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/rinap/ Numerous royally commissioned texts were composed between 744 BC and 609 BC, a period during which Assyria became the dominant power in southwestern Asia. Eight hundred and fifty to nine hundred such inscriptions are known today. The Royal Inscriptions of the Neo-Assyrian Period (RINAP) Project, under the direction of Professor Grant Frame of the University of Pennsylvania, will publish in print and online all of the known royal inscriptions that were composed during the reigns of the Assyrian kings Tiglath-pileser III (744-727 BC), Shalmaneser V (726-722 BC), Sargon II (721-705 BC), Sennacherib (704-681 BC), Esarhaddon (680-669 BC), Ashurbanipal (668-ca. 631 BC), Aššur-etel-ilāni (ca. 631-627/626 BC), Sîn-šumu-līšir (627/626 BC), Sîn-šarra-iškun (627/626-612 BC), and Aššur-uballiṭ II (611-609 BC), rulers whose deeds were also recorded in the Bible and in some classical sources. The individual texts range from short one-line labels to lengthy, detailed inscriptions with over 1200 lines (4000 words) of text. These Neo-Assyrian royal inscriptions (744-609 BC) represent only a small, but important part of the vast Neo-Assyrian text corpus. They are written in the Standard Babylonian dialect of Akkadian and provide valuable insight into royal exploits, both on the battlefield and at home, royal ideology, and Assyrian religion. Most of our understanding of the political history of Assyria, and to some extent of Babylonia, comes from these sources. Because this large corpus of texts has not previously been published in one place, the RINAP Project will provide up-to-date editions (with English translations) of Assyrian royal inscriptions from the reign of Tiglath-pileser III (744-727 BC) to the reign of Aššur-uballiṭ II (611-609 BC) in seven print volumes and online, in a fully lemmatized and indexed format. The aim of the project is to make this vast text corpus easily accessible to scholars, students, and the general public. RINAP Online will allow those interested in Assyrian culture, history, language, religion, and texts to efficiently search Akkadian and Sumerian words appearing in the inscriptions and English wordsSave to LibraryDownloadby Grant Frame and +3Shigeo  YamadaJamie NovotnyJoshua Jeffers•  20  Ancient History, Digital Humanities, Assyriology, Iraqi HistoryComplete Names Indices of the Royal Inscriptions of Mesopotamia, Babylonian Periods Volume 2Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny•  20  Near Eastern Studies, Assyriology, Mesopotamia History, Ancient Near Eastern LanguagesESARHADDON'S PRAYER IN THE INSCRIPTION AsBbA AS RELATED TO THE MĪS PÎ RITUALThe prayer of Esarhaddon, incorporated in the inscription AsBbA, is the first prayer in an Assyrian royal inscription that is presented as a verbatim citation. The aim of this paper is to delineate the historiographical background for... moreThe prayer of Esarhaddon, incorporated in the inscription AsBbA, is the first prayer in an Assyrian royal inscription that is presented as a verbatim citation. The aim of this paper is to delineate the historiographical background for this innovation in a genre usually described as routine and formalistic. By examining descriptions of prayers said to have been recited by the king in Assyrian royal inscriptions, I analyze Esarhaddon's prayer from the aspects of its content, context, and possible linkage to prayers external to the royal inscriptions. Specifically, I examine the possible relation between the prayer in this inscription and the mīs pî ritual performed during the last phases of the process of making a divine image. This comprehensive analysis suggests that the king's prayer had been part of an early stage of such a ritual and was available to the authors of the Esarhaddon inscription.Save to LibraryDownloadby Amitai Baruchi-Unna•  7  Prayer, Esarhaddon, Assyrian Royal Inscriptions, MardukKazuko Watanabe, “A Study of Assyrian Cultural Policy As Expressed in Esarhaddon’s Succession Oath Documents,” in A. Baruchi-Unna et al. eds., Studies presented to Mordechai Cogan on his 75th Birthday, Vol. 2, Eisenbrauns 2017, pp.473-492.Save to LibraryDownloadby Kazuko Watanabe•  8  Assyriology, Assyrian Empire, Neo-Assyrian studies, Esarhaddonסוגות נפגשות: תפילת אסרחדון מלך אשור בכתובת המלכותית 'אשור-בבל א' ותפילות אכדיות מטקס 'רחיצת הפה'Shnaton. An Annual for Biblical and Ancient Near Eastern Studies XXI (2012) 153-173 The prayer of Esarhaddon, king of Assyria (680–669 BCE), incorporated in the inscription labeled AsBbA, is the first prayer in an Assyrian royal... moreShnaton. An Annual for Biblical and Ancient Near Eastern Studies XXI (2012) 153-173 The prayer of Esarhaddon, king of Assyria (680–669 BCE), incorporated in the inscription labeled AsBbA, is the first prayer in an Assyrian royal inscription that is presented as a verbatim citation. This article delineates the historiographical background for this innovation in a genre usually described as routine and formalistic. First the ‘praying king’ topos – a literary pattern designed to report a prayer, which, according to the royal account, the king had recited during a specific historical event – is classified and briefly reviewed. Then, Esarhaddon’s prayer is described and analyzed with respect to its content, context and possible connection with prayers outside of the royal inscriptions. In particular, we examine the possible relations the prayer in this inscription and an Akkadian prayer from the mīs pî ritual, which was performed during the last phases of making a divine image. The whole analysis suggests that the royal prayer was part of an early stage of such a ritual and was available to the royal scribes for whom it served as a source material for the Esarhaddon inscription."Save to LibraryDownloadby Amitai Baruchi-Unna•  5  Esarhaddon, Akkadian Prayers, Mis Pi, Washing the MouthRoyal Inscriptions of Babylonia online (RIBo) Projecthttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/ribo/ From the start of the Second Dynasty of Isin (1157-1026 BC) to the end of the Neo-Babylonian Dynasty (625-539 BC), over 80 men claimed suzerainty over the land of Sumer and Akkad, an area roughly... morehttp://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/ribo/From the start of the Second Dynasty of Isin (1157-1026 BC) to the end of the Neo-Babylonian Dynasty (625-539 BC), over 80 men claimed suzerainty over the land of Sumer and Akkad, an area roughly comprising modern-day southern Iraq; the number greatly increases to about 130 if one also includes the kings of the later Persian and Greek (Macedonian and Seleucid) Periods. These Babylonian rulers, some of whom proudly referred to themselves as the 'king of Babylon' (a title divinely sanctioned by that city's tutelary deity, Marduk), had inscriptions officially commissioned in their names, sometimes to boast about an accomplishment of theirs (often the renovation of a temple or the construction of a palace or city wall) and sometimes to simply indicate that an object belonged to them.Over 400 Akkadian and/or Sumerian royal inscriptions from these periods survive today. Those texts are preserved on more than 1,800 clay, metal, and stone objects, over half of which date to the reign of the famous Nebuchadnezzar II (604-562 BC). The majority of these are assumed to have been unearthed in the ruins of one of the major cult centers of Babylonia: Babylon, Borsippa, Nippur, Sippar, Ur, and Uruk. Many of the bricks, clay cylinders, clay prisms, clay tablets, paving stones, foundation blocks, beads, etc. discovered through scientific archaeological excavations or illicit digs have made their way into numerous museum and private collections around the world; some objects, especially those that were too heavy to haul back to Europe or North America, were left and buried in the field by their excavators after their contents were recorded, copied, and/or photographed.The aim of RIBo, a sub-project of the Official Inscriptions of the Middle East in Antiquity (OIMEA) Project, is to publish in a single place easily accessible and annotated (lemmatized) editions of all of the known Akkadian and Sumerian royal inscriptions from Babylonia that were composed between 1157 BC and 64 BC. RIBo's contents are divided into several sub-projects, generally by "dynasty" or period. The "dynastic" numbering follows that of the Royal Inscriptions of Mesopotamia, Babylonian Periods (RIMB) publications of the now-defunct Royal Inscriptions of Mesopotamia (RIM) Project. The sub-project numbering is as follows:"Babylon 1" = Kassite Period (1595-1155 BC)."Babylon 2" = Second Dynasty of Isin (1157-1026 BC)."Babylon 3" = Second Dynasty of the Sealand (1025-1005 BC)."Babylon 4" = Bazi Dynasty (1004-985 BC)."Babylon 5" = Elamite Dynasty (984-979 BC)."Babylon 6" = Uncertain Dynasties (978-626 BC)."Babylon 7" = Neo-Babylonian Dynasty (625-539 BC)."Babylon 8" = Akkadian inscriptions of the Persian Period (538-330 BC), especially the now-famous "Cyrus Cylinder.""Babylon 9" = Macedonian rulers of Mesopotamia (currently no inscriptions known)."Babylon 10" = Seleucid era (305-64 BC) official inscriptions written in Akkadian, especially the "Antiochus (Borsippa) Cylinder."Save to LibraryDownloadby Jamie Novotny and +3Frauke WeiershäuserAlexa BartelmusKaren Radner•  20  Ancient History, Digital Humanities, Near Eastern Studies, AssyriologyNextLast »Related Topics25th Dynasty (Egyptology)FollowFollowingAssyrian EmpireFollowFollowingEgyptian HistoryFollowFollowingAssyriologyFollowFollowingAssyriaFollowFollowingNubian studiesFollowFollowingNubian-Egyptian RelationsFollowFollowingTaharqaFollowFollowingAncient Near Eastern HistoryFollowFollowingMesopotamia HistoryFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023