Ethnographic Film Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Ethnographic Film10,781 FollowersRecent papers in Ethnographic FilmTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleDeceiving ‘Primitivism’. Ainu people in 1910s TraveloguesThis work assesses the representation of the Ainu people through the early travelogues made in Japan during the 1910s, focusing on those made by Benjamin Brodsky. Considering filmic representation of the Ainu people in relation to their... moreThis work assesses the representation of the Ainu people through the early travelogues made in Japan during the 1910s, focusing on those made by Benjamin Brodsky. Considering filmic representation of the Ainu people in relation to their social context, the analysis reveals how these images projected a deceptive ethnicity belonging to a time prior to the moment they were filmed. Filmmakers created an imagery of the “primitive Ainu” aimed at attracting a Western audience by showing an exoticism of a cultural and geographically distant people. These images projected ahistorical views of the Ainu, concealing their adaptation to modern life and assimilation to the Japanese culture and way of life. A critical approach to these captivating images reveals the premeditated construction of Ainu ethnicity and casts doubt on the validity of these moving images as a social witness.Save to Libraryby Marcos  Centeno Martín•  9  Japanese Studies, Japanese Cinema, Ethnographic Film, Documentary FilmАрхивное этнографическое кино как исторический источник / Archival Ethnographic Films as a Historical SourceВ статье на основании текстовых и визуальных архивных документов исследуются особенности и информативные качества феномена советс-кого этнографического кино, практически не изученного ни в этнографии, ни в киноведении. Анализируя... moreВ статье на основании текстовых и визуальных архивных документов исследуются особенности и информативные качества феномена советс-кого этнографического кино, практически не изученного ни в этнографии, ни в киноведении. Анализируя показательный опыт первопроходцев направления этнокино в СССР режиссера А. А. Литвинова и исследова-теля В. К. Арсеньева, автор прослеживает эффективную методологию их научно-кинематографического творчества: от стадии написания сце-нарных эскизов на основе научных текстов, через длительные полевые киноэкспедиции до редактирования итоговых киноработ при участии научного консультанта. Выбор хронологических рамок исследования обосновывается тем, что рубеж 1920-х-1930-х гг.-время развития направления этнографического кино в Советском Союзе, характеризовав-шееся не только количественным, но и качественным развитием. За этот период была создана панорама фильмов этнографического содержания о различных народностях многонациональной страны Советов. И наиболее значительные из данных киноработ создавались при участии професси-ональных ученых. В частности, результатом сотворчества А. А. Литви-нова и В. К. Арсеньева стала серия этнографических киноработ об этни-ческих сообществах Приморья (удэгейцы) и Камчатки (коряки, ламуты), заслуживших признание и широкого зрителя, и научной аудитории. Эти кинодокументы являются одними из первых визуальных свидетельств по этнографии народов Дальнего Востока. С учетом этно-киноведческого ракурса в статье сделаны выводы: этнографическое кино при соо-ветствующем комплексном подходе представляет собой особую форму исследовательского познания; итоговый фильм, как «документ» своего времени, при должной аналитической критике является информативным историческим/этнографическим источником. Изучение малоисследованного пласта архивных этнографических фильмов является актуальным направлением для широкого спектра гуманитарных изысканий, и его результаты заслуживают введения в активный научный оборот. А опыт их создателей представляет ценный практический пример для деятельности современных этнокинематографистов. The article draws on text and visual archival documents to study nature and informative value of Soviet ethnographic films. Ethnographic cinema is a phenomenon almost unstudied by both ethnography and cinematology. Analyzing an illustrative experience of film director A. A. Litvinov and researcher V. K. Arsenyev, who were at tip of the spear in Soviet ethnocinema, the author investigates effective methodology of their scientific and cinematographic work: from script based on scientific texts to lengthy ethnographic filming expeditions to editing of the films assisted by scientific advisors. The choice of the chronological framework rests on the fact that late 1920s-early 1930s was a time of growth for ethnographic filming in the Soviet Union, characterized by both quantity and quality of ethnographic films. It was a time when a panorama of ethnographic films about different peoples of the multinational Soviet country was created, in production of the most significant of these professional scientists were involved. A series of ethnographic films about ethnic groups of Primorye (the Udege), Kamchatka (the Koryaks, the Lamuts), and Chukotka (the Chukchi), a collaboration of A. A. Litvinov and V.K. Arsenyev, received recognition from the public, and also from the scientific community. These film documents are among first photovisual records on the ethnography of the peoples of the Far East. From the point of view of ethnographic cinematology, the article concludes that ethnographic films, if approached scientifically, become a form of research, film as a 'document' of the period providing historical and ethnographic data. Little-studied archival ethnographic films are a promising area of research, well deserving being included into the scholarship. Their cre-ators' experience is of practical interest for modern ethno-cinematographers. Ключевые слова Архивное этнографическое кино, исторический источник, визуальная антропология, история малочисленных народов СССР. Keywords Archival ethnographic films, historical source, visual anthropology, history of the small-numbered peoples of the USSR.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Golovnev•  5  Visual Anthropology, Ethnographic Film, архивы, Визуальная антропологияCultural Learnings of Borat Make for Benefit Glorious Study of DocumentaryBorat 's fictional voyage - complete with interviews, staged encounters, and provocations - is not so distant from the documentary tradition, which has been on shaky ontological and epistemological ground since Auguste and Louis Lumire... moreBorat 's fictional voyage - complete with interviews, staged encounters, and provocations - is not so distant from the documentary tradition, which has been on shaky ontological and epistemological ground since Auguste and Louis Lumire staged their first actualities and Robert Flaherty enlisted Allakariallak to play Nanook in Nanook of the North (1922), a re-enactment of past Inuit life. In an era in which digital manipulations and suspect documentary practices call the truth-status of the mode into doubt, Borat illustrates a difficult middle ground: a thrilling yet slippery territory that defies easy dichotomies of truth and fiction, us and them, primitive and civilised, mockumentary and documentary, reference and performance.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leshu Torchin•  3  Documentary (Film Studies), Ethnographic Film, Documentary FilmLINDA CHRISTANTY: Playing Between Elephants (REVIEW)PENULIS: LINDA CHRISTANTY Film " Playing Between Elephants " Seekor Pelanduk di antara Gajah Di aula itu berkumpul banyak orang. Geuchik atau kepala desa menyampaikan laporan penggunaan uang. Dari penjelasan geuchik, semua orang jadi... morePENULIS: LINDA CHRISTANTYFilm " Playing Between Elephants " Seekor Pelanduk di antara Gajah Di aula itu berkumpul banyak orang. Geuchik atau kepala desa menyampaikan laporan penggunaan uang. Dari penjelasan geuchik, semua orang jadi tahu bahwa terjadi pembengkakan biaya pembangunan rumah, lebih dari taksiran semula. Uang yang diperkirakan sisa, malah kurang. seorang warga langsung protes. Geuchik berusaha menjelaskan lagi hitung-hitungannya. Orang-orang dari lembaga bantuan ikut membantu geuchik menjelaskan duduk perkara. Tetapi lelaki yang emosi itu tak terima. Ia merobek-robek buku anggaran, mengumpat-umpat, lalu meninggalkan aula. Tingkah lakunya menular pada sebagian besar yang hadir. Ada yang menggerutu, ada yang mengajak yang lain pergi ke kantor lembaga bantuan untuk mengadu. Suasana hiruk-pikuk. Geuchik tak bisa mencegah mereka. Namun, ia tetap tegar dan bahkan, masih bisa tertawa. Inilah konflik yang paling menegangkan dalam film dokumenter garapan Aryo Danusiri, Playing Between Elephants. Sang geuchik menjadi karakter utama cerita ini. Ia hadir dalam setiap sekuel, menjadi sorotan sekaligus perekat tiap bagian. Sosoknya sangat hidup. Ia kesal, sabar, bertanggung jawab, dan kadang terlihat ingin menguntungkan dirinya sendiri. Ia sosok yang kompleks, tidak hitam-putih dan sederhana. Ia pahlawan, tetapi juga bukan tanpa cacat. Aryo begitu jeli memperlihatkan perkembangan watak dan tingkah-polah geuchik dengan kameranya, merekam bagaimana si tokoh bertarung dengan dirinya sendiri dalam menjalankan perannya sebagai geuchik yang harus memperhatikan kepentingan warga serta kepentingan pribadinya, atau bermain-main di antara kedua hal tersebut. Pertarungan internal dalam diri geuchik bisa kita anggap sebagai pertarungan dua " gajah " dan pelanduknya tak lain dari metafor tentang kemampuannya mengelola kedua kepentingan tersebut dengan cerdik. Warga akhirnya memperoleh tambahan uang pembangunan sejumlah Rp 2,1 juta, sedang geuchik punya rumah besar berdapur luas berkat hubungan baiknya dengan penyalur bahan bangunan. Film berdurasi 89 menit ini sama sekali tidak terjerembab sebagai film propaganda program perumahan, meski ia merekam kegiatan lembaga bantuan tertentu dalam melibatkan masyarakat mendirikan rumah mereka, tahap demi tahap. Kadangkala ia begitu puitis, juga dramatis. Selain adegan-adegan yang menampilkan dinamika di lapangan, Aryo juga menghadirkan gambar-gambar secara semiotik yang berfungsi sebagai jeda sekaligus membubuhkan estetika pada filmnya. Beberapa kali muncul pemandangan pantai dan perahu di sela-sela adegan lain. Semula tak ada gerak, tak ada aktivitas apa pun, kecuali lanskap. Namun, perlahan-lahan Aryo menampilkan kehidupan di sana. Anak-anak memancing ikan dekat pantai, lalu suatu ketika orang-orang mendorong perahu ke laut dengan disemangati seruan, " Dalam hati sama rasa, hayooo.. ! " Proses interaksi Film Aryo dengan cerdas mengajak penonton menyaksikan dua proses interaksi. Pertama adalah hubungan manusia dengan alam yang terus-menerus (dalam hal ini manusia dengan laut), rutin, dan bermanfaat (dalam hubungan nelayan dan ikan-ikan), yang kemudian dirusak kekuatan alam lainnya (bencana atau tsunami) dan bagaimana manusia bertahan hidup dengan memulihkan lagi kepercayaan mereka terhadap alam sekaligus memulihkan kembali mata pencaharian atau kehidupan mereka.Save to LibraryDownloadby Aryo Danusiri•  8  Development Studies, Humanitarianism, Community Development, Ethnographic FilmPlaces of Otherness. Strategies of Urban Representation in 'Foreign Parts'Marginal places do not usually appear in pictures. Their residents have historically been deprived of representation, because they do not fit in the ideal profile of ordinary citizens. Post-modern ethnography, however, argues that the... moreMarginal places do not usually appear in pictures. Their residents have historically been deprived of representation, because they do not fit in the ideal profile of ordinary citizens. Post-modern ethnography, however, argues that the cultural other has always been within ourselves, so many people –especially artists– have understood that those marginal perspectives must be included in any work attempting to address the urban experience in all its complexity and plurality. This is the reason why many filmmakers have lately become interested in what I call places of otherness: marginal areas in which cultural others, such as immigrants, refugees, homeless, ethnic minorities and other excluded groups, can feel at home in a foreign city. This essay aims to discuss the strategies of representation of such kind of places in a particular case study: Foreign Parts (Véréna Paravel & J. P. Sniadecki, 2010), a documentary produced at Harvard’s Sensory Ethnography Lab that depicts the everyday life in an already disappeared junkyard in Queens, New York. In this film, the documentary makers embrace a sensory approach based on intersubjectivity to give voice and visibility to the residents of that place, thus updating the politics of representation of ethnographic film and participatory documentary. Villarmea Álvarez, Iván. 2018. Places of Otherness. Strategies of Urban Representation in 'Foreign Parts'. The Apollonian 5, 124-131.Save to LibraryDownloadby Iván Villarmea Álvarez•  14  Film Studies, Ethnographic Film, Cinema and the City, Documentary FilmThe Karrabing Film Collective: "Talking Back" to Ethnographic Media and Mineral Extraction in AustraliaSave to LibraryDownloadby Maggie Wander•  16  Visual Studies, Art History, Visual Anthropology, Indigenous StudiesПервое этнокино. Александр ЛитвиновSave to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Golovnev•  6  Visual Anthropology, Ethnography, Ethnographic Film, этнография, этнологияEthnographic Film as Image-Object in Museum PracticesThis is a paper presented at the National Museum of Denmark which explores the way in which ethnographic films are often perceived and displayed in museum practices, using as example the Musée du quai Branly, ParisSave to LibraryDownloadby Giulia Battaglia•  8  Visual Studies, Visual Anthropology, Anthropology Of Art, Ethnographic FilmGAROD: A Story of LongingGarod means longing in Armenian. Longing for a land that lost its people. Longing for the homeland. Longing for a time that is eternally lost. Garod is a story of longing. It is about the lives and the musical stories of two Armenian... moreGarod means longing in Armenian. Longing for a land that lost its people. Longing for the homeland. Longing for a time that is eternally lost. Garod is a story of longing. It is about the lives and the musical stories of two Armenian musicians: A father and his son, Onnik Dinkjian and Ara Dinkjian. Garod tells the story of the remaking of a musical tradition and life in Diaspora.Onnik Dinkjian is one of the most influential Armenian singers with his unique style of singing, evoking Anatolian Armenian sound in America. Onnik Dinkjian’s family was from Diyarbakır/Dikranagert and they had to leave the country after 1915. Onnik Dinkjian was born in France and never saw his homeland until he was seventy-five. Yet he grew up in a neighborhood of Dikranagertsi Armenians listening to the stories and songs of his ‘home.’ Ara Dinkjian is a highly celebrated figure of the world music and one of the top oud players in the world. His compositions have been recorded in many different languages by top singers and musicians throughout the world.Garod begins with the encounters of Onnik and Ara Dinkjian in Diyarbakır, a city that has become a constitutive part of their identity. Tracing past and musical lives of these musicians, the documentary lays a bridge to Diyarbakır. Garod tells the stories of Onnik and Ara through their connections to Diyarbakır, Anatolia, Armenian Church music, and also musical relations with Sid Clark, Arto Tunçboyaciyan, Night Ark, Eleftheria Arvanitaki, Sezen Aksu, Kardeş Türküler and Ahmet Kaya. The documentary passes through different geographies and countries following the traces of a musical tradition. In this documentary, Garod means not only longing for loss but also remaking of a musical tradition and the life itself.DIRECTORS Onur Günay, Burcu YıldızEDITING Elif Ergezen, Onur Günay, Burcu YıldızSOUND DESIGN AND MIX Fuat GüneyLANGUAGE English-ArmenianSUBTITLES Turkish and EnglishDURATION 52 dk./52 min.Save to LibraryDownloadby Onur Gunay and +1Burcu  YILDIZ•  9  Music, Anthropology, Armenian Studies, EthnomusicologyCritical studies and visual anthropology: Aberrant vs. anticipated readings of ethnographic filmSave to LibraryDownloadby Wilton Martinez•  4  Critical Theory, Visual Anthropology, Film Studies, Ethnographic FilmDocumentary films in India: critical aesthetics at work, by Aparna SharmaReview of a book that makes a deep analysis of films made in India by David MacDougall, the Desire Machine Collective and Kumar ShahaniSave to LibraryDownloadby Giulia Battaglia•  8  Visual Anthropology, Documentary (Film Studies), Anthropology Of Art, Ethnographic FilmThe challenges of a pioneer: Tim Asch, otherness, and film receptionSave to LibraryDownloadby Wilton Martinez•  4  Critical Theory, Visual Anthropology, Indigenous Studies, Ethnographic FilmKau Faito'o: Traditional Healers of Tonga. Review of Film by Melinda Ostroff.Save to LibraryDownloadby Heather E Young-Leslie•  5  Traditional Medicine, Ethnographic Film, Tonga (Anthropology), film ReviewsSome double tasks of ethnography and anthropology: reflections on audiovisual ethnographyThis review essay points to a series of creative contradictions that anthropologists who do not use text as a means to present their works encounter in the process of crafting their ethnographies. I make the case for audiovisual... moreThis review essay points to a series of creative contradictions that anthropologists who do not use text as a means to present their works encounter in the process of crafting their ethnographies. I make the case for audiovisual ethnographies and propose that the tensions suggested in these projects are mirrored across the discipline and are not specific to the medium used. The way many anthropologists are using non-textual media represents a continuity with epistemological and methodological principles, which have been at the heart of fieldwork-based anthropology. Audiovisual ethnographies have the potential to reflect on the discipline’s consistent epistemological and methodological contributions at the same time as they open new fields of inquiry.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlo Cubero•  5  Visual Anthropology, Ethnography, Social and Cultural Anthropology, Ethnographic FilmТРАДИЦИОННЫЕ ЭТНОКУЛЬТУРНЫЕ СООБЩЕСТВА В ЭТНОГРАФИЧЕСКОМ КИНО.  «НАНУК С СЕВЕРА» РОБЕРТА ФЛАЭРТИ /  TRADITIONAL ETHNOCULTURAL COMMUNITIES IN ETHNOGRAPHIC CINEMA. «NANUK OF THE NORTH» BY ROBERT FLAHERTYВ статье, на примере классического этнографического фильма «Нанук с Севера» Роберта Флаэрти, проводится рассмотрение кинообраза культуры эскимосов Севера Канады. Методом анализа фильма как визуально-текстового произведения явилась его... moreВ статье, на примере классического этнографического фильма «Нанук с Севера» Роберта Флаэрти, проводится рассмотрение кинообраза культуры эскимосов Севера Канады. Методом анализа фильма как визуально-текстового произведения явилась его исследовательская расшифровка – «перевод» в текстовый формат содержания кадров и титров фильма. Исследуется потенциал кино как формы исследовательского познания. Делается вывод о феномене этнографического фильма как многокомпонентного исторического источника. The article, using the classic ethnographic film «Nanook of the North» (1922) by a pioneer of world visual anthropology, Robert Flaherty, examines the properties and content of a film document about the culture of the Eskimos of Northern Canada at the beginning of the 20th century. Due to the specifics of silent cinema, the film «Nanook of the North» is a kind of cine-text, consisting of an approximately equal number of film frames and text captions alternating in the narrative. And in this regard, an effective method for the analysis of this film, used in this article, was developed by its research decoding – «translation» into textual format. The obtained cinema text made it possible to identify and analyze, on the one hand, the features of the screen image of the evolution of the traditional Inuit Eskimo lifestyle in the studied period, and on the third, the foundations of the specific creative method of the director/researcher.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Golovnev•  10  Visual Anthropology, Film Studies, Ethnographic Film, Eskimo-Aleut LinguisticsLas formas de la otredad: la representación del pueblo ainu en los travelogues de Benjamin Brodsky (1918-1919)espanolLos origenes del cine coinciden con un momento de creciente interes por la cultura ainu en Occidente. No es de extranar que el retrato del pueblo ainu formara parte de las pri - meras imagenes rodadas en Japon con el cinematografo.... moreespanolLos origenes del cine coinciden con un momento de creciente interes por la cultura ainu en Occidente. No es de extranar que el retrato del pueblo ainu formara parte de las pri - meras imagenes rodadas en Japon con el cinematografo. Este trabajo propone un anali - sis de la secuencias de los ainu incluidas en los travelogues , documentales de viajes, de Benjamin Brodsky: Beautiful Japan (1918) y A Trip through Japan with the YWCA (1919). Su mirada occidental proyecto la imagen de un «otro» distinto al japones, que contrastaba con el periodo de asimilacion que sufria el pueblo ainu en ese momento. Se trata de una construccion exotica que mostraba un primitivismo en claro retroceso. EnglishThe origins of cinema coincided with the growing interest in Ainu culture in the West. It is not surprising that the Ainu people appeared in the first images filmed by the cin - ematograph in Japan. This essay focus the analysis on the Ainu sequences included in Brodsky’s travelogues, tour doc...Save to Libraryby Marcos  Centeno Martín•  4  Japanese Cinema, Ethnographic Film, Documentary Film, AinuInterview with anthropologist-filmmaker John Paul SniadeckiSave to LibraryDownloadby Cristóbal Escobar•  7  Visual Anthropology, Film Studies, Visual Culture, Ethnographic FilmReclaiming Diné Film:  Visual Sovereignty and the Return of "Navajo Film Themselves"In the summer of 1966, seven Navajo community members from Pine Springs, AZ were the subjects of one of the most provocative experiments in cognitive and visual anthropology, the Navajo Film Project, resulting in Sol Worth and John... moreIn the summer of 1966, seven Navajo community members from Pine Springs, AZ were the subjects of one of the most provocative experiments in cognitive and visual anthropology, the Navajo Film Project, resulting in Sol Worth and John Adair’s seminal work Through Navajo Eyes and seven short films produced by Navajo filmmakers that garnered worldwide attention.  In 2011, the films were repaired and returned to the Navajo Nation for public screenings, the first step in a process of repatriation and resignification that mirrors the repatriation of other visual media to Navajo and indigenous communities.  The return of the films offers a unique opportunity to reexamine the meanings of the films and the project, reframing the discussion in terms of their role in context of visual sovereignty, community reengagements, and “reclaiming” Diné/Navajo histories.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leighton C. Peterson•  9  Native American Studies, Anthropology, Visual Anthropology, Indigenous StudiesВИЗУАЛЬНЫЕ РЕПРЕЗЕНТАЦИИ ЭТНОКУЛЬТУРНЫХ СООБЩЕСТВ СЕВЕРА В ДОКУМЕНТАЛЬНОМ КИНО (НА ПРИМЕРЕ ФИЛЬМА «МЕСТОРОЖДЕНИЕ»)В статье анализируется один из видов современных визуальных антропологических источников-этнографиче-ское кино о коренных народах Российского Севера. Авторы обращаются к документальному фильму «Место-рождение» (И. А. Головнев, 2012),... moreВ статье анализируется один из видов современных визуальных антропологических источников-этнографиче-ское кино о коренных народах Российского Севера. Авторы обращаются к документальному фильму «Место-рождение» (И. А. Головнев, 2012), посвященному жизни на стойбище в Ханты-Мансийском автономном округе-Югре семьи Пяк. Анализируя повседневную жизнь хантыйской семьи, авторы раскрывают отношение главно-го персонажа фильма Василия Пяка к окружающей среде, его восприятие жизни на Севере. Особое внимание уделяется теме сложных взаимоотношений коренных народов и нефтедобывающих компаний в ХМАО. Утвер-ждается, что нефтяная разработка в крае становится важным контекстом повседневного существования этно-культурных сообществ Севера. С одной стороны, нефтяные компании представляют реальную угрозу для со-хранения окружающей среды и традиционной культуры в регионе. С другой стороны, нефтяники предоставля-ют этнокультурным сообществам Севера важные средства жизнеобеспечения: топливо, дороги, работу, систему льгот, а разработка нефтяных месторождений становится значимым источником дохода для многих семей. Фильм «Месторождение» предлагается рассматривать в качестве своеобразного культурного посредника в ре-презентации актуальной проблемы, связанной с взаимоотношениями нефтяников и коренных жителей северной Сибири: с рисками и опасностями нефтяного производства для данной территории. Ключевые слова: этнографическое кино, визуализация, традиционная культура, оленеводство, ханты, нефть, Нумто, Российский Север. Cибирский Север для одних является местом рождения, а для других-месторождением В настоящее время в методологии и метатеории антропологических исследований происходят серьезные преобразования, связанные с повышенным интересом к визуальным методам исследования культуры, противопоставляемым традиционным текстовым способам ее описания. Наблюдается также переход от дистанцированного, безличного, авторитарного стиля рассуждения об этнокультурах к бо-лее рефлексивным, включенным способам письма о них, когда, к примеру, значимой в тексте становит-ся личность и позиция самого наблюдателя (исследователя, режиссера, фотографа и т. п.). Иногда эти преобразования связываются с оформлением новой-«визуально-антропологической оптики», обре-тающей всё большее число сторонников в отечественной науке и за рубежом [Арзютов 2016]. По опре-делению Е. В. Александрова, «визуальная антропология-это комплексная (практическая и теоретиче-ская) деятельность с целью исследования и репрезентации визуальными средствами характерных черт социокультурных сообществ на определенных этапах их существования» [Александров 2017, 16]. В данной статье исследуется одна из разновидностей визуально-антропологических источни-ков, изученных в отечественном гуманитарном знании пока еще недостаточно, но вызывающих в по-следнее время огромный интерес: к этнографическим фильмам, посвященным описанию культур традиционных сообществ Севера. По словам Дэвида Мак Дугалла, этнографическое кино-это кино по своей природе исследовательское, которое «стремится истолковать одно общество для другого» [Macdougall 1992, 96]. Эвристическая ценность этнографического кино заключается в том, что этот жанр, будучи особым направлением в кинематографе, сочетает в себе качества научного исследова-ния и искусства [Головнев 2016]. Содержание этнографических фильмов, безусловно, выходит за рамки набора смежных и очень устойчивых визуальных метафор, как правило, порождаемых в худо-1 Работа выполнена при поддержке гранта РФФИ № 18-09-00076 «Традиционные этнокультурные сообщества Севера в этнографическом кино» (рук.-И. А. Головнев).Save to LibraryDownloadby Elena Golovneva and +1Ivan Golovnev•  2  Ethnographic Film, Этнографическое киноIn-Between Fiction and Non-Fiction: Reflections on the Poetics of Ethnography in Literature and Film  [ISBN-13: 9781527508330]  ISBN-10: 1-5275-0833-1The volume invites the reader to join in the debate regarding subjectivity and self-reflection, as the means of understanding and engaging through story telling with the social and historical changes that currently take place in the... moreThe volume invites the reader to join in the debate regarding subjectivity and self-reflection, as the means of understanding and engaging through story telling with the social and historical changes that currently take place in the world. It examines the symbiosis between anthropology and fiction. On the one hand, by looking at various ways in which the two field co-emerge in a fruitful manner, and, on the other, by re-examining their political, aesthetic, and social relevance to world history. Following the intellectual crisis of the 1970s, anthropology lost its ethnographic authority and vocation. However, because of this, the ethnographic scope has opened up, towards more subjective and self-reflexive forms of knowledge and representations, such as the crossing of the boundaries between autobiography and ethnographic writing. In addition to this, the volume returns to authorship, discussed in direct relation to readership and spectatorship, making a ground-breaking move towards the study of fictional texts and images as cultural, sociological, and political reflections of the time and place in which they were produced. In this way, the authors of the volume contribute to the widening of the ethnographic scope of contemporary anthropology. A number of the chapters were presented as papers in two conferences organised by the Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK and Commonwealth at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, entitled "Arts and aesthetics in a globalising world" (2012), and at the University of Exeter, entitled "Symbiotic Anthropologies" (2015). Each chapter offers a unique method of working in the grey area between and beyond the categories of fiction and non-fiction, while creatively reflecting upon current methodological, ethical, and theoretical issues, in anthropology and cultural studies. This is an important book for undergraduate and post-graduate students of anthropology, cultural and media studies, art theory, and creative writing, as well as academic researchers in these fields. TABLE OF CONTENTS Introductory Note ...................................................................................................1 Towards an Anthropology of Fiction Michelangelo Paganopoulos Part I: Literature Chapter One...........................................................................................................20 Kant’s Lectures on Anthropology and the Rise of World Society Michelangelo Paganopoulos Chapter Two ..........................................................................................................47 A Bottle of Manchester United Chardonnay Keith Hart Chapter Three........................................................................................................73 Parallel Perspectives in Ethnography and Literature: Reflections from Assamese Literature Prarthana Saikia Chapter Four..........................................................................................................73 Beyond Ethnographic Surealism: Hauntology and Ethnography Carrie B. Clanton Chapter Five ..........................................................................................................97 The Working Day John Hutnyk Chapter Six ..........................................................................................................120 Multinational Banking Culture in India: Facts in Fiction Geetika Ranjan Chapter Seven .....................................................................................................130 Mario Lodi’s Educational Approach: Is this Relevant for Anthropology in the Twenty-First Century? Melania Calestani Part II: Film Chapter Eight.......................................................................................................146 Forest of Bliss: Un poème réaliste—On the Aesthetic Structure of a Poetical Documentarism Norbert M. Schmitz Chapter Nine........................................................................................................161 Notes from a Film: The Places from which We are Absent Marta Kucza Chapter Ten .........................................................................................................176 Sensorial Resonance as a Key Reading Tool into Migrants’ Experiences Monica Heintz Chapter Eleven....................................................................................................187 The Post-Socialist Aesthetics of Jia Zhang-ke and the DV Revolution Ishita Tiwary Chapter Twelve...................................................................................................196 Mapping the Rrise of Subversive Slave Consciousness in Tomás Gutiérrez Alea’s The Last Supper Ira Sahasrabudhe Chapter Thirteen .................................................................................................210 The “Other” Within: Constructions of Disability in Popular Hindi Cinema Shubhangi VaidyaSave to LibraryDownloadby Michelangelo Paganopoulos•  9  Fiction Writing, Philosophy of Science, Visual Anthropology, Ethnography"JVC-Smithsonian Folkways Video Anthology of Music and Dance of Africa Series'Save to LibraryDownloadby Frank Gunderson•  3  African Studies, Ethnomusicology, Ethnographic FilmIndian Masculinity: An Important Intervention in Gender and Masculinity Studies (Film Review Essay)Review of Indian Masculinity Series - Roots of Love, Mardistan/Macholand & Sent Away Boys by Harjant Gill (written by Sanghita Sen)Save to LibraryDownloadby Sanghita Sen and +1Harjant Gill•  3  Ethnographic Film, Punjab Studies, Indian MasculinitiesVizuelna antropologija, RTS 2011u Etnografskom muzeju 19. Međunarodna smotra etnološkog filma bila je posvećena antropologiji u filmu. Tu se ukazala prava prilika za susret evropskih autora, koje vezuje zajedniča ljubav prema sinhronom istraživanju na liniji između... moreu Etnografskom muzeju 19. Međunarodna smotra etnološkog filma bila je posvećena antropologiji u filmu. Tu se ukazala prava prilika za susret evropskih autora, koje vezuje zajedniča ljubav prema sinhronom istraživanju na liniji između nauke i umetnosti. Pored vodiča u emisiji dr Slobodana Naumovića sa Katedre za etnologiju i antropologiju Filozofskog fakulteta u Beogradu, imaće reč i mnogobrojni domaći i strani autori.Save to LibraryDownloadby Slobodan Naumovic•  2  Visual Anthropology, Ethnographic FilmThe Possibility of Spirits:  An Interview with Mattijs Van de PortIn 2019, we watched 'The possibility of spirits' as part of two anthropology courses at the University of Glasgow: the Masters course 'Religion in Society' , and the Honours course 'Cosmology, Ritual and Belief', both taught by Diego... moreIn 2019, we watched 'The possibility of spirits' as part of two anthropology courses at the University of Glasgow: the Masters course 'Religion in Society' , and the Honours course 'Cosmology, Ritual and Belief', both taught by Diego Maria Malara. We all found the film endlessly fascinating, but, because it sparked particularly lively debates in our classes, we felt the need to further explore some of its complexities with the director, Mattijs van de Port. The following questions stem from these class debates, but, in their current form, have been shaped by Alex Gibb (student on Cosmology Culture and Belief), Leonie Colmar, Martha Gardiner (students on Religion in Society), and Diego Maria Malara. https://www.gla.ac.uk/schools/socialpolitical/research/sociology/blogresearch/interviewsseminarslectures/headline_762885_en.htmlSave to LibraryDownloadby Diego Maria Malara•  18  Anthropology, Visual Anthropology, Social Anthropology, EthnographyRacial Diversity: A Cultural Necessity in a Contemporary, Globalised and White-Washed HollywoodTraditional tropes of racial stereotyping in both old and contemporary Hollywood cinema lend credence to the continual need for further progression of ethnic representation on screen. Information from sources such as the Motion Picture... moreTraditional tropes of racial stereotyping in both old and contemporary Hollywood cinema lend credence to the continual need for further progression of ethnic representation on screen. Information from sources such as the Motion Picture Association of America (2015: 2) and the Hollywood Diversity Report (2015) establish the industry's economic prominence and global influence over the modern-day film market. By using the sociological theories of Pierre Bourdieu, this research underlines the subliminally domineering effect of culture upon audience perception, thus highlighting the importance of ethnic equality on-screen and denouncing the negligent stereotypes that have plagued mainstream American cinema since conception.  America's racial history is imprinted into the subtext of their film culture; the release of The Birth of a Nation (1915) exemplified stereotypical racial profiling and how it's intricately tied to the US political system. After the socio-political event of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, the white saviour narrative evolved and is still in use, placing emphasis on friendly depictions of ethnic minorities, whilst covertly coercing the stereotypical minority into subservience for the white protagonist, due to their paternalistic, moral, and messianic qualities. The history of mainstream race depiction contextualise the recent Hollywood trend of Whitewashing (the replacement of a coloured character with a white actor), and combined with the cultural relevance of the capital gained from popular film media, the importance of racial progression and further democratisation of ethnic diversity in our globalised culture is apparent. By drawing correlations between sociological culture theory, the progressive change of public consensus advocated by millennials, and Hollywood's self-detrimental adherence to traditional tropes of racial profiling, the contemporary filmography exemplified in this essay indicate that the demeaning and subversive qualities of the industry's traditional ethnic profiling is still prominent today. Whilst audience research advocates an increasing awareness towards this area of racial relations, the re-evaluation of race-representation on the big screen has become an ever more pressing and necessary endeavour.Save to LibraryDownloadby Chris Jacobs•  47  Sociology, Cultural Studies, Ethnic Studies, Media and Cultural StudiesEthical Considerations Regarding Les maîtres fousSave to LibraryDownloadby Adam Guinard•  39  Critical Theory, Religion, Cultural Studies, African StudiesВладимир Арсеньев и киноВ статье рассматривается малоизученная страница в творчестве В.К. Арсеньева, связанная с кинематографом, в частности – история и методология создания классического документального фильма «Лесные люди» режиссера А.А. Литвинова, автором... moreВ статье рассматривается малоизученная страница в творчестве В.К. Арсеньева, связанная с кинематографом, в частности – история и методология создания классического документального фильма «Лесные люди» режиссера А.А. Литвинова, автором сценария и редактором которого выступал В.К. Арсеньев. В работе сопоставляются взаимосвязанные первоисточники – исследовательская монография В.К. Арсеньева «Лесные люди – удэхейцы» и этнографический фильм «Лесные люди» Приморской кино-экспедиции «Совкино» 1928 г. Основу исследования составляют архивные материалы: полевые дневники и фотографии, личная и деловая переписка, документация и рукописи неопубликованных статей первопроходцев отечественного этнографического кино – А.А. Литвинова и В.К. Арсеньева.The article is dedicated to the scpeci c page in the V. Arsenyev's creativity, connected with cinema. And particulary – the history and methodology of creation of the classical documentary  lm "Forest People" (director A. Litvinov, scriptwriter V. Arsenyev). In this article the comparative analysis of the ethnographic  lm "Forest People" («Sovkino», 1928) and the scientific monograph of V. Arsenyev "Forest people – Ude"(1926 ) is carried out. The research based on the archival materials: expedition-diaries and photos, personal and business correspondence, documentation and manuscripts of unpublished articles of А. Litvinov and V. Arsenyev.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Golovnev•  7  Visual Anthropology, Ethnographic Film, Дальний Восток, Визуальная антропологияEthnographic Film without an Ethnographer?  The Cinema of Mercedes Álvarez and Agnès Varda from an Anthropological Perspective.The discussion about the categorization of a film as ‘ethnographic’, attending to its characteristics and whether or not is being made by a trained ethnographer, has been ‘hotly debated’ (Ruby, 2005: 159) among scholars, specifically from... moreThe discussion about the categorization of a film as ‘ethnographic’, attending to its characteristics and whether or not is being made by a trained ethnographer, has been ‘hotly debated’ (Ruby, 2005: 159) among scholars, specifically from the area of visual anthropology. This essay will focus on the possibilities of the intertwining between anthropology and cinema. First, I will expose the different views on the ethnographic value of films. Second, I will draw on two examples of films made by Mercedes Álvarez and Agnès Varda, directors that have contributed to the innovation of the documentary genre, in order to analyse and synthesize their possible contributions to the discipline of anthropology. Lastly, I will consider the possibilities of the conversation between ethnography and film.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrea García-González•  8  Anthropology, Film Studies, Ethnographic Film, Visual AnthroologyUm filme sobre o quê? Reassemblage: o filme e o caderno de campoSave to LibraryDownloadby Gustavo Soranz•  5  Ethnographic Film, Experimental Ethnography, Trinh Minh-ha, Filme EtnográficoFilm Review of The Professional Foreigner: Asen Balikci and Visual Ethnography by Rolf Husmann and Manfred KrügerSave to LibraryDownloadby Troy A Belford•  5  Visual Anthropology, Ethnographic Film, Documentary Film, NetsilikL'antropologia visualeBreve introduzione al tema dell'Antropologia visuale. Il testo è trascrizione di un video realizzato da Fabrizio Magnani nell’ambito dell’iniziativa #laculturanonsiferma, lanciata nel 2020 dal Ministero della cultura nel corso... moreBreve introduzione al tema dell'Antropologia visuale. Il testo è trascrizione di un video realizzato da Fabrizio Magnani nell’ambito dell’iniziativa #laculturanonsiferma, lanciata nel 2020 dal Ministero della cultura nel corso dell'emergenza Covid-19.Brief introduction to the subject of visual anthropology. The text is a transcription of a video, edited by Fabrizio Magnani as part of the #laculturanonsiferma initiative, launched in 2020 by the Ministry of Culture during the Covid-19 emergency.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fabrizio Magnani•  11  Visual Anthropology, Intangible cultural heritage, Ethnographic Film, FilmmakingA Conversation with David MacDougall: Reflections on the Childhood and Modernity Workshop FilmsThis interview with ethnographic filmmaker and theorist David MacDougall focuses on his most recent collaborative research project: an ongoing, five-year enterprise entitled Childhood and Modernity: Indian Children's Perspectives. In the... moreThis interview with ethnographic filmmaker and theorist David MacDougall focuses on his most recent collaborative research project: an ongoing, five-year enterprise entitled Childhood and Modernity: Indian Children's Perspectives. In the project, which emerged from his earlier work documenting the social worlds and experiences of children in diverse institutions across India, MacDougall directs a series of workshops that equip small cohorts of boys and girls between the ages of 10 and 13 with basic video skills. These young, first-time filmmakers produce short films based on their investigation of research topics they select and design themselves. The process recognizes and amplifies the perspectives of children at a time of transformation and change in India. In a conversation with filmmaker Rowena Potts, a doctoral student in cultural anthropology at New York University and facilitator of a Childhood and Modernity workshop in Kolkata, MacDougall describes the evolution and contours of this project and its implications for ethnographic film, visual anthropology, and global studies of childhood.Save to LibraryDownloadby Rowena Potts•  5  Visual Anthropology, Anthropology of Children and Childhood, Ethnographic Film, RepresentationSyllabus: Sensibilities: The Pragmatics and Poetics of EthnographyThis graduate seminar is an invitation to think through what it takes to do and write ethnography. You will alternate between readings that explicitly address methods for conducting fieldwork and those that enact and theorize the... moreThis graduate seminar is an invitation to think through what it takes to do and write ethnography. You will alternate between readings that explicitly address methods for conducting fieldwork and those that enact and theorize the transformation of that research into writing. In tandem with the readings and our class discussions, you will complete a number of exercises aimed at familiarizing yourself with some of the practical and epistemological issues raised by fieldwork and helping you develop what we might think of as ethnographic sensibilities. Building on three fieldwork exercises, each student will design and implement a small fieldwork project based on observation and interviewing, which will be the basis of an analytical case study. The goal is to explore various ways of attuning yourself to the demands—pragmatic, conceptual, political, aesthetic, to name a few—of producing knowledge that is grounded in experience. As such, the readings and exercises will help you cultivate various modes of attention, participation, and observation; gain experience writing fieldnotes and producing other forms of documentation; analyze the fieldwork material that you gather/produce; grapple with the ethics of accountability and representation; and experiment with forms of writing that might be adequate to the task of weaving analysis, narration, and theorization into a genre recognizable as “ethnography.”Save to LibraryDownloadby Charles A. McDonald•  17  Anthropology, Medical Anthropology, Social Anthropology, Philosophical AnthropologyBook review of Savage Preservation: The Ethnographic Origins of Modern Media Technology  by Brian Hochman Save to LibraryDownloadby Troy A Belford•  11  Visual Studies, Visual Anthropology, Ethnography, Social Representations2015 “Filming Food Cultural Practices in Cameroon. An Artistic and Ethnographic Work”, Archivio di Etnografia, 1-­‐2, 2014Save to LibraryDownloadby Ivan  Bargna•  5  Contemporary Art, Food and Nutrition, Cameroon, Ethnographic FilmSubjects, Images, Voices: Representing Gender in Ethnographic FilmSave to LibraryDownloadby Linda H Connor•  4  Gender Studies, Visual Anthropology, Ethnographic Fieldwork (Anthropology), Ethnographic FilmLE FILM ETHNOGRAPHIQUE COMME ARCHIVESCet article analyse le recours à l’image animée comme pratique de recherche en interrogeant l’itinéraire social et professionnel de Jean-Dominique Lajoux, cinéaste au musée des Arts et Traditions populaires, l’une des figures marquantes... moreCet article analyse le recours à l’image animée comme pratique de recherche en interrogeant l’itinéraire social et professionnel de Jean-Dominique Lajoux, cinéaste au musée des Arts et Traditions populaires, l’une des figures marquantes du cinéma ethnographique des années 1970-1980. En repositionnant la division du travail scientifique et le modèle de l’ethnographie dans cette institution, il s’agit de comprendre, par un retour sur les objets filmés, sur les dispositifs mis en place, ce cinéma dont l’objectif a été la production d’archives filmées des sociétés paysannes en voie de disparition. La production de ces images est alors d’autant plus intéressante qu’elle se positionne à contre-pied de la pratique documentaire et ethnographique contemporaine produisant de ce fait une esthétique singulière et épurée.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gilles  Laferté•  3  Rural Sociology, Ethnographic Film, History of Ethnology“ЛЕСНЫЕ ЛЮДИ” – ФЕНОМЕН СОВЕТСКОГО ЭТНОГРАФИЧЕСКОГО КИНО / “Lesnye liudi” – fenomen sovetskogo etnograficheskogo kino [“Forest People” – The Phenomenon of the Soviet Ethnographic Cinema]История советского этнографического кино полна славными именами, героическими маршрутами и классическими фильмами. Первопроходцы отечественного этнокино – исследователь В. Арсеньев и режиссер А. Литвинов – авторы серии кинолент о на-... moreИстория советского этнографического кино полна славными именами, героическими маршрутами и классическими фильмами. Первопроходцы отечественного этнокино – исследователь В. Арсеньев и режиссер А. Литвинов – авторы серии кинолент о на- родностях Дальнего Востока и Чукотки 1920–1930-х годов (“Лесные люди”, “Тумгу”, “Чжоу” и др.). Помимо выполнения исследовательско-творческих задач, производ- ство этнокино явилось частью государственного эксперимента по нациестроитель- ству. Советская власть использовала этнографическое кино как средство объединения народов нового Союза “на экране”. Со временем показ первобытных народностей стал вредить успешности советского бренда, и в середине 1930-х годов, синхронно с ведомственными репрессиями в этнологии, этнокино сошло с экранов страны /The history of Soviet ethnographic cinema is full of great names, heroic pathways, and classic films. The pioneers of the genre – V. Arseniev and A. Litvinov – authored a seriesof films about peoples of the Far East and Chukotka in the 1920–30s (“Forest People”, “Tumgu”, “Chzou”, etc.). However, apart from its creative and educational mission, eth- nographic cinema was part of the state’s grand experiment in nation-building, for Soviet authorities employed it as a means of uniting the peoples of the new Union “on the big screen”. Eventually, though, the show of “primitive peoples” began to be perceived as hin- drance to the success of the Soviet brand; and in the mid-1930s, ethnographic films, quite in parallel with ethnographic theories in academia, went off the stage.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Golovnev•  6  Visual Anthropology, Ethnography, Ethnographic Film, этнографияFolklore/cinema: popular film as vernacular cultureSave to LibraryDownloadby Mikel J Koven•  7  Folklore, Art History, Art, LiteratureΕθνογραφικό ντοκιμαντέρ: μεταξύ επιστήμης και καλλιτεχνικής δημιουργίας [Συνεντευξη Huffington Post Greece]Πού αναφέρεται ο εθνογραφικός κινηµατογράφος και τι είναι η οπτική ανθρωπολογία; Ο υπεύθυνος προγράµµατος του φεστιβάλ εξηγεί στη HuffPost Greece ο Χρήστος Βαρβαντάκης, κοινωνικός ανθρωπολόγος και υπεύθυνος προγράµµατος του Ethnofest.... moreΠού αναφέρεται ο εθνογραφικός κινηµατογράφος και τι είναι η οπτική ανθρωπολογία; Ο υπεύθυνος προγράµµατος του φεστιβάλ εξηγεί στη HuffPost Greece ο Χρήστος Βαρβαντάκης, κοινωνικός ανθρωπολόγος και υπεύθυνος προγράµµατος του Ethnofest. «Στην πραγµατικότητα ο όρος εθνογραφικό ντοκιµαντέρ είναι πολύ πιο διευρυµένος και ανοιχτός, αγκαλιάζοντας πολλές διαφορετικές οπτικές και προσεγγίσεις»Save to LibraryDownloadby Christos Varvantakis•  5  Visual Anthropology, Documentary (Film Studies), Ethnographic Film, Documentary FilmТрадиционные этнокультурные сообщества в этнографическом кино: «Тунгусы» Елизаветы Свиловой / Traditional Ethno-Cultural Communities in Ethnographic Cinema: “Tungus peoples” by Elizaveta SvilovaДанная статья, основанная на архивных и печатных материалах, задается целью введения в научный оборот информации об этнографическом фильме «Тунгусы» (1927) режиссера Е.И. Свиловой - об эволюции этнического сообщества тунгусов Восточной... moreДанная статья, основанная на архивных и печатных материалах, задается целью введения в научный оборот информации об этнографическом фильме «Тунгусы» (1927) режиссера Е.И. Свиловой - об эволюции этнического сообщества тунгусов Восточной Сибири в период культурных и экономических преобразований в СССР в середине 1920-х гг.The article examines the multicomponent phenomenon of Soviet ethnographic cinema on the example of the ethnographic documentary film Tungusa (1927) by Elizaveta Svilova.Save to LibraryDownloadby Ivan Golovnev•  9  Visual Anthropology, Soviet History, Siberia, Ethnographic FilmЕтнографски филм, визуелна антропологија и филмски фестивали у доба хибридних жанрова, постфилмских и постхуманих стваралачких тежњи. (Ethnographic Film, Visual Anthropology and Film Festivals in the Age of Hybrid Genres, Post-Filmic and Post-Human Creative Tendencies)Save to LibraryDownloadby Slobodan Naumovic•  5  Visual Anthropology, Posthumanism, Ethnographic Film, Film FestivalsKava RootzThis documentary film is a result of multi-sited ethnographic research between 2015-2019, which explores cultural identity, gender, music, and spirituality through contemporary and common kava practices. Drawing from over 17 years of... moreThis documentary film is a result of multi-sited ethnographic research between 2015-2019, which explores cultural identity, gender, music, and spirituality through contemporary and common kava practices. Drawing from over 17 years of participation in kava communities, this film is grounded in Tongan experiences, while also including a mobile and expanding Moana/Wansolwara/Oceanic perspective with contributions from Fijians, Sāmoans, Māori, and more. The knowledge holders in this film span across four territories, including Te Ika a Māui in Aotearoa, Utah (US) on Turtle Island, The Kingdom of Tonga, and Kamberra, Australia. They share a complex web of experiences, purpose, and tensions within the contemporary practices of common kava gatherings known in Tongan as faikava. Contemporary kava gatherings are spaces to release the pressures of modern life, nurture ancestral and social relationships, reveal truths, build community, produce and transmit knowledge, negotiate identity, heal, and foster positive well-being through comradery and openness. This film cannot cover all of the complexity of kava culture, yet attempts to be a meaningful introduction to the dynamic practices that are alive and expanding throughout the world.Open access: https://boap.uib.no/index.php/jaf/article/view/2844Save to Libraryby Arcia Tecun (Daniel Hernandez)•  11  Anthropology, Indigenous Studies, Ethnobotany, EthnomusicologyTelling Their Own Stories: Indigenous Film as Critical Identity DiscourseOver the past century, anthropologists have claimed primary authority regarding authentic filmic representations of indigenous peoples. The emergence of indigenous films since the 1980s—as well as changes within the discipline— have... moreOver the past century, anthropologists have claimed primary authority regarding authentic filmic representations of indigenous peoples. The emergence of indigenous films since the 1980s—as well as changes within the discipline— have challenged the ethical grounding of such ethnographic representations of the “other.” Unlike the emphasis of ethnographic filmmakers on cultural explanation, many indigenous filmmakers currently engage a critical identity discourse that effectively addresses the complex historical and contemporary contexts of indigenous peoples. This paper contrasts Dustinn Craig’s (White Mountain Apache) experimental film, 4 Wheel War Pony, with anthropologist Jerry Leach’s Trobriand Cricket in order to demonstrate how indigenous and ethnographic films can differ strikingly in their treatment of similar subject matter. With complex hybrid subject positions, indigenous filmmakers are often well positioned to critically engage the most challenging issues facing native communities today. These films also highlight limitations of disciplinary notions of the insider-outsider distinction, ethnographic holism, and objectivity in visual anthropology.Save to LibraryDownloadby William Lempert•  14  Native American Studies, Indigenous Media, Avant-Garde Cinema, SkateboardingWhat is the relationship between MacDougall’s films and his published writings about film?Save to LibraryDownloadby Martina Krajnakova•  3  Social and Cultural Anthropology, Ethnographic Film, David MacDougallThe Human Figure on Film, Chapter One - Natural: Ray Birdwhistell and the Microanalysis of Human BehaviorThis is a chapter from Seth Barry Watter, THE HUMAN FIGURE ON FILM: NATURAL, PICTORIAL, INSTITUTIONAL, FICTIONAL (PhD diss., Brown University, 2017). It is a slightly different, slightly longer version of the essay published in GREY ROOM,... moreThis is a chapter from Seth Barry Watter, THE HUMAN FIGURE ON FILM: NATURAL, PICTORIAL, INSTITUTIONAL, FICTIONAL (PhD diss., Brown University, 2017). It is a slightly different, slightly longer version of the essay published in GREY ROOM, no. 66 (2017) as "Scrutinizing: Film and the Microanalysis of Behavior." Please compare with published version before quoting.Save to LibraryDownloadby Seth Barry Watter•  7  Film Studies, History of Anthropology, Ethnographic Film, Gregory BatesonBrief notes on KarnanSave to LibraryDownloadby Dr Joshua Gnana Raj P•  20  Ethnohistory, Ethnomusicology, Ethnography, Historical EthnomusicologyAudiovisual Evidence & Anthropological KnowledgeThis chapter discusses the multiple forms that audiovisual media — specifically video—take in the production of anthropological knowledge. It draws from my own experience of using video as part of my doctoral research to demonstrate how... moreThis chapter discusses the multiple forms that audiovisual media — specifically video—take in the production of anthropological knowledge. It draws from my own experience of using video as part of my doctoral research to demonstrate how the dualities suggested by participant observation operate simultaneously in the experience of producing an ethnographic video. I discuss specifically how an ethnographic video at once generates material evidence of social relations and constitutes a body of knowledge. Crucially, in this situation, the process of producing the audiovisual itself becomes a form of anthropological knowledge.Save to LibraryDownloadby Carlo Cubero•  4  Visual Anthropology, Ethnographic Film, Documentary Filmmaking, Visual Ethnographic MethodsEthnographic Documentary ProductionSave to LibraryDownloadby Harjant Gill•  2  Visual Anthropology, Ethnographic FilmNextLast »Related TopicsVisual AnthropologyFollowFollowingDocumentary FilmFollowFollowingEthnographyFollowFollowingSocial and Cultural AnthropologyFollowFollowingAnthropologyFollowFollowingFilm StudiesFollowFollowingSocial AnthropologyFollowFollowingSensory EthnographyFollowFollowingVisual StudiesFollowFollowingEthnographic fieldworkFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023