Developing Native Language Literacy in Language Minority Adults. ERIC Digest. 
28 captures
06 Apr 2004 - 05 Apr 2023
Apr
FEB
Jul
24
2017
2019
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20190224062558/https://www.ericdigests.org/1993/native.htm
ERICDIGESTS.ORG
  
Home
Search for Eric Digests
Libraries
Espanol
About
   
ERIC Identifier: ED358747 Publication Date: 1990-10-00 
Author: Rivera, Klaudia M. Source: National Clearinghouse 
on Literacy Education Washington DC., Adjunct ERIC Clearinghouse on Literacy 
Education for Limited-English-Proficient Adults Washington DC. 
Developing Native Language Literacy in Language Minority 
Adults. ERIC Digest. Increasingly, adult education programs need to serve students whose native 
language is not English. Some of these students are already literate in their 
native language, and their only need is to learn both oral and written English 
as a second language (ESL). Others are not literate in their native language, 
and therefore may need to acquire literacy skills both in their mother tongue 
and in English. Research evidence suggests that first language literacy promotes 
second language acquisition, and that literacy skills in the native language are 
likely to transfer to the second language (Rivera, 1988).
COGNITIVE ASPECTS OF NATIVE LANGUAGE LITERACYA fundamental 
  assumption in the schooling of language minority children is that skills and 
  knowledge learned in the native language transfer to English. This transfer is 
  referred to as the cross-language transfer of skills and knowledge. Based on 
  this assumption, Cummins (1983, 1986) has formulated two hypotheses pertinent to 
  native language literacy.
First, the Interdependency Hypothesis states that "to the extent that 
instruction through a minority language is effective in developing academic 
proficiency in the minority language, transfer of this proficiency to the 
majority language will occur given adequate exposure and motivation to learn the 
majority language" (Cummins, 1986). In other words, language skills, once 
learned, transfer globally from one language to another. Second, the Common 
Underlying Proficiency Hypothesis holds that the development of first language 
reading skills provides a deep conceptual and linguistic proficiency that is 
strongly related to the development of literacy and general academic skills in 
the second language. This common underlying proficiency makes possible the 
transfer of cognitive and academic or literacy-related skills across languages 
(Cummins, 1983).
When adults are taught to read in the language they already know, they can 
use the linguistic strengths they bring into the program and draw upon the 
knowledge and skills they have acquired in their first language (Rivera, 1988). 
This approach is consonant with one of the underlying tenets of adult education: 
New skills and knowledge are best acquired when they build on the already 
existing knowledge and skills of the adult learner. Ovando and Collier (1985) 
state that even when two languages use different writing systems, readers are 
able to apply the visual, linguistic, and cognitive strategies they use in their 
first language to reading in the second language. Students transfer what they 
know about reading in one language to the other, and in so doing maximize the 
linguistic strengths they already possess.
SOCIOCULTURAL ASPECTS OF NATIVE LANGUAGE LITERACYIn 
  addition to the cognitive and psycholinguistic tenets central to the native 
  language literacy approach, there are social, cultural, and political concerns 
  that argue for native language literacy development. According to Giroux's 
  (1987) definition of literacy, to be literate is to be present and active in the 
  struggle to reclaim one's voice and history, and to move into the future 
  confidently. Language carries the conception of the world to the group that 
  speaks it; language does not merely reflect reality but plays an active role in 
  the construction of reality. The students' native languages should be actively 
  incorporated in the educational process. The use of the native language allows 
  learners to discuss their current life experiences using their own words. It 
  also allows them to retain ties to their culture and past as, for example, when 
  they write home to the people they have left behind.
INSTRUCTIONAL DELIVERY MODELS FOR INITIAL LITERACYThe most 
  commonly followed model in adult education for language minority groups in the 
  United States focuses on ESL, with little or no development of non-English 
  mother tongues. These programs may include adults who have completed little 
  formal education in their native language as well as adults who can read and 
  write in their own languages.
Some programs are not able to offer native language literacy instruction 
because the students speak a number of native languages, making it economically 
unfeasible to offer literacy classes in each non-English native language. In 
other cases, programs do not see the immediate benefits of devoting time to 
instruction in the first language because they do not perceive literacy in the 
native language as a viable solution for students' survival while in the United 
States. They may see the acquisition of spoken English proficiency as the sole 
factor to have immediate social and economic benefits in the community, 
regardless of literacy ability in either language.
While they may not teach in the native languages of their students, some ESL 
literacy programs employ bilingual (or multilingual) personnel in a variety of 
capacities, including in-take counselors and teachers' aides. Bilingual 
personnel--who are frequently members of the same national, ethnic, or 
linguistic groups as the students--may help ESL teachers in and out of the 
classroom as translators, tutors of individuals and small groups, and sources of 
cultural information for teachers to incorporate into ESL literacy lessons.
Programs that provide native language literacy instruction differ in their 
structure and design. To varying extents, different program designs reflect 
learner preferences, political beliefs, various theories about literacy 
acquisition, and pragmatic concerns such as the existence of a written alphabet 
for the native language, and the availability of instructional materials, 
trained teachers, and program funding.
Most programs that offer native language literacy have bilingualism and 
biliteracy as a goal. Some require that students wanting to enroll in English as 
a second language classes demonstrate some threshold level of literacy ability 
in their native language before receiving ESL instruction. In this approach, 
students who are not literate in their native language take a course or a series 
of courses to develop basic literacy skills in the native language before 
starting the ESL sequence.
In other programs, ESL and native language classes are taken separately 
during the same enrollment session. In this approach, ESL classes typically 
focus on developing students' oral/aural proficiency, while reading and writing 
abilities are developed in the native language. ESL and literacy classes are 
often held on alternate days, are taught by different instructors, and may or 
may not cover the same thematic content.
Some programs offer special bilingual literacy classes, where students 
develop their reading and writing skills simultaneously in their native language 
and in English. Such classes are either team taught by a native language speaker 
and an English speaker, or by one bilingual teacher, and typically cover similar 
content in both the native language and English. This model is akin to what has 
sometimes been referred to as the "concurrent approach" to bilingual education 
for children (Ovando & Collier, 1985).
Bilingual programs are often initiated by community-based organizations that 
seek to promote the maintenance of the cultural identity of a given language 
minority community. These programs often encourage cultural transmission 
activities such as documenting life stories from the native culture and writing 
letters to family members from the home countries, activities that help to 
inculcate a sense of history and pride in younger generations. These life 
experiences, in turn, can serve as a powerful basis for developing the thematic 
content of the literacy curriculum.
Parents or grandparents may believe that unless they become literate in their 
native language, they will not be able to convince the young of the value of 
that language, and the family risks losing its cultural and linguistic roots and 
diversity. As Hakuta (1990) points out, "If the languages represented by 
American linguistic minorities were seen as a natural resource, such as species 
of birds or trees, there would be a public clamor to set up investigative 
commissions to monitor and prevent their rapid extinction."
OTHER LITERACY PROGRAM MODELSTo an increasing extent, 
  adult educators are taking note of the fact that in many adult education 
  systems, the only course offerings available to limited English proficient 
  adults consist of ESL or native language classes that teach initial literacy, 
  whereas native English speaking students are able to take a wider range of basic 
  skills courses in math, science, and social studies. Educators' experiences with 
  the amnesty education program (see Terdy & Spener, 1990) have led some 
  municipal and state education systems to consider providing LEP adults with 
  content courses in their native language. Where they are offered (in New York 
  City and Los Angeles, for example), such courses fall under the rubric of what 
  has been termed BENL (Basic Education in the Native Language) or BABE (Bilingual 
  Adult Basic Education). Beyond the level of adult basic education, it is 
  possible in many cities to take the test of General Educational Development 
  (GED) in Spanish, and it is not uncommon for adult education programs serving 
  limited English speakers to offer GED preparation courses in Spanish. Bilingual Vocational Training (BVT) programs are another example of a program 
design that may provide some literacy instruction in the adult's native 
language. The BVT model calls for use of the native language to teach vocational 
skills associated with a given occupation. This instruction in the native 
language (or in English with bilingual support) is coupled with special 
vocational ESL (VESL) classes, which develop the English skills needed to 
competently carry out the duties of a particular occupation.
CONCLUSIONIn view of the large and increasing immigrant 
  population in the United States in need of literacy and English as a second 
  language services, more research on the results of the different approaches 
  available must be conducted. This research should take into consideration not 
  only the pedagogical and linguistic factors involved in the education of adults, 
  but also the social and political implications of bilingualism and biliteracy 
  with regard to equal opportunities and full participation in society.
REFERENCESCummins, J. (1986). Empowering minority 
  students: A framework for intervention. "Harvard Educational Review," 56, 18-35. Cummins, J. (1983). Bilingualism and special education: Programs and 
pedagogical issues. "Learning Disability Quarterly," 6(4), 373-386.
Giroux, H. A. (1987). In P. Freire & D. Macedo (Eds.), "Literacy: Reading 
the word and the world." Granby, MA: Bergin and Garvey.
Hakuta, K. (1990). "Bilingualism and bilingual education: A research 
perspective." Washington, DC: National Clearinghouse on Bilingual Education.
Ovando, C., & Collier, V. (1985). "Bilingual and ESL classrooms." New 
York: McGraw-Hill.
Rivera, K. M. (1988). Not "Either/Or" but "And": Literacy for non-English 
speakers. "Focus on Basics," 1(3/4), p. 1-3.
Terdy, D., & Spener, D. (1990). "English literacy and other requirements 
of the amnesty program. Q&A." Washington, DC: National Clearinghouse on 
Literacy Education. 
      
Library Reference Search
 
Please note that this site is privately owned and is in no way related
to any Federal agency or ERIC unit.  Further, this site is using a
privately owned and located server. This is NOT a government sponsored
or government sanctioned site. ERIC is a Service Mark of the U.S. Government.
This site exists to provide the text of the public domain ERIC Documents
previously produced by ERIC.  No new content will ever appear here
that would in any way challenge the ERIC Service Mark of the U.S. Government.
Popular Pages
Home
Quick Links
HomeSearch for Eric DigestsLibrariesEspanolAbout
              © 2019 ericdigests.org - All rights reserved.
            
Privacy Policy