BIM Education Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
BIM Education19,440 FollowersRecent papers in BIM EducationTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeople301in.DE BIM Reifegrad MatrixBIM Excellence ist ein forschungs-basierter Ansatz, um die Leistungsfähigkeit einzelner Personen, Organisationen und Projektteams zu bewerten und zu verbessern. Die BIMe Initiative organisiert alle Forschungsaktivitäten in Knowledge Sets,... moreBIM Excellence ist ein forschungs-basierter Ansatz, um die Leistungsfähigkeit einzelner Personen, Organisationen und Projektteams zu bewerten und zu verbessern. Die BIMe Initiative organisiert alle Forschungsaktivitäten in Knowledge Sets, welche durch ein Internationales Forschungsnetzwerk entwickelt wurden. Das BIm³ besitzt zwei Achsen - BIM Fähigkeiten Sets und den BIM Reifegrad Index. Um von BIm³ zu profitieren, ist es zuerst wichtig, die Konzepte der BIM Fähigkeiten und BIM Reifegrade zu überblickenSave to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  13  Construction Technology, Construction Management, Lean Construction, BIM (Architecture)Macro-BIM adoption: Conceptual structuresBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) concepts and workflows continue to proliferate within organisations, through project teams, and across the whole construction industry. However, both BIM implementation and BIM diffusion are yet to be... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) concepts and workflows continue to proliferate within organisations, through project teams, and across the whole construction industry. However, both BIM implementation and BIM diffusion are yet to be reliably assessed at market scale. Insufficient research has been conducted to date towards identifying the conceptual structures that would explain and encourage large-scale BIM adoption. This paper introduces a number of macro-adoption models, matrices and charts (Fig. 1). These models can be used to systematically assess BIM adoption across markets, and inform the structured development of country-specific BIM adoption policies.This research is published in two complementary papers combining conceptual structures with data collected from experts across a number of countries. The first paper “Macro-BIM adoption: conceptual structures” delimits the terms used, reviews applicable diffusion models, and clarifies the research methodology. It then introduces five new conceptual constructs for assessing macro-BIM adoption and informing the development of market-scale BIM diffusion policies. The second paper “Macro-BIM adoption: comparative market analysis” employs these concepts and tools to evaluate BIM adoption and analyse BIM diffusion policies across a number of countries. Using online questionnaires and structured interviews, it applies the models, refines the conceptual tools and develops additional assessment metrics. The two papers are complementary and primarily intended to assist policy makers and domain researchers to analyse, develop and improve BIM diffusion policies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  32  Assessment, Performance Studies, Diffusion of Innovations, Performance ManagementBuilding Information Modelling framework: a research and delivery foundation for industry stakeholdersBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Architecture, Engineering, Construction and Operations (AECO) industry. To allow a systematic investigation of BIM'sdivergent fields, its knowledge... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Architecture, Engineering, Construction and Operations (AECO) industry. To allow a systematic investigation of BIM'sdivergent fields, its knowledge components must be defined and expanding boundaries delineated. This paper explores some of the publicly available international guidelines and introduces the BIM Framework, aresearch and delivery foundation for industry stakeholders. This is a ‘scene-setting’ paper identifying many conceptual parts (fields, stages, steps and lenses), providing examples of their application and listing some of the Framework's deliverables. This paper also identifies and deploys visual knowledge models and a specialised ontology to represent domain concepts and their relations.Succar, B. (2009). Building information modelling framework: A research and delivery foundation for industry stakeholders. Automation in Construction, 18(3), 357-375.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  6  BIM (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM/IPD Specialists, Assessment of Building Information Modeling (BIM) Performance in architecture, engineering, and construction firms/industryCritical Success Factors for  Application of BIM for  Singapore Architectural FirmsSave to LibraryDownloadby Thant Zin•  9  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Bim, BIM EducationThe Five Components of BIM Performance MeasurementBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Design, Construction and Operation (DCO) industry . The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can be met through a... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is an expansive knowledge domain within the Design, Construction and Operation (DCO) industry . The voluminous possibilities attributed to BIM represent an array of challenges that can be met through a systematic research and delivery framework spawning a set of performance assessment and improvement metrics. This paper identifies five complementary components specifically developed to enable such assessment: [1] BIM Capability Stages representing transformational milestones along the implementation continuum [2] BIM Maturity Levels representing the quality, predictability and variability within BIM Stages, [3] BIM Competencies representing incremental progressions towards and improvements within BIM Stages, [4] Organisational Scales representing the diversity of markets, disciplines and company sizes and [5] Granularity Levels enabling highly-targeted yet flexible performance analyses ranging from informal self-assessment to high-detail, formal organisational audits. This paper explores these complementary components and positions them as a systematic method to understand BIM performance and to enable its assessment and improvement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  8  BIM (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM/IPD Specialists, Assessment of Building Information Modeling (BIM) Performance in architecture, engineering, and construction firms/industryBuilding Information Modeling Türkçe AnlatımBu yazıda Yapı Bilgi Modellemesi ile ilgili tüm sorulara cevap bulabilir, sistem hakkında detaylı bilgiye ulaşabilirsiniz.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hakan Yıldır•  11  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM EducationBuilding Information Modelling: conceptual constructs and performance improvement tools (PhD Thesis)Building Information Modelling (BIM) is a set of technologies, processes and policies enabling multiple stakeholders to collaboratively design, construct and operate a facility. There are numerous challenges attributed to BIM adoption by... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a set of technologies, processes and policies enabling multiple stakeholders to collaboratively design, construct and operate a facility.There are numerous challenges attributed to BIM adoption by industry and academia. These represent a number of knowledge gaps each warranting a focused investigation by domain researchers. This study does not isolate a single gap to address but espouses a holistic view of the knowledge problem at hand. It contributes to the discussion a set of conceptual constructs that clarify the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain. It also introduces a number of practicable knowledge tools to facilitate BIM learning, assessment and performance improvement. This study is delivered through complementary papers and appendices to answer two primary research questions. The first explores the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain whilst the second probes how these knowledge structures can be used to facilitate the measurement and improvement of BIM performance across the construction industry.To address the first question, the study identifies conceptual clusters underlying the BIM domain, develops descriptive taxonomies of these clusters, exposes some of their conceptual relationships, and then delivers a representative BIM framework. The BIM framework is composed of three-axes which represent the main knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain and support the development of functional conceptual models.To address the second question, BIM framework structures are extended through additional concepts and tools to facilitate BIM performance assessment and development of individuals, organizations and teams. These additional concepts include competency sets, assessment workflows and measurement tools which can be used to assess and improve the BIM performance of industry stakeholders.In addressing these research questions, a pragmatic approach to research design based on available literature and applicable theories has been adopted. By combining several research strategies, paradigms and methods, this study (1) generates several new conceptual structures (e.g. frameworks, models and taxonomies) which collectively clarify the knowledge structures underlying the BIM domain; and (2) develops a set of workflows and tools that facilitate BIM assessment, learning and performance improvement.This study delivers an extendable knowledge structure upon which to build a host of BIM performance improvement initiatives and tools. As a set of complementary papers and appendices, the study presents a rich, unified yet multi-layered environment of conceptual constructs and practicable tools; supported by a common framework, a domain ontology and simplified visual representations. Individually, each paper introduces a new framework part or solidifies a previous one. Collectively, the papers form a cohesive knowledge engine that generates assessment systems, learning modules and performance improvement tools.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Willy Sher•  27  Management Information Systems, Knowledge Models, Construction Management, Performance Based Assessment (Education)301in_BIM_Maturity_Matrix.docx301in_BIM_Maturity_MatrixSave to LibraryDownloadby OMAR SELIM•  2  Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM EducationBuilding Information Modeling—Enabled Construction Safety Culture and Maturity Model: A Grounded Theory ApproachSave to LibraryDownloadby Abimbola Windapo•  17  Safety Engineering, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementBuilding Information Modeling—Enabled Construction Safety Culture and Maturity Model: A Grounded Theory ApproachSave to LibraryDownloadby oluseye olugboyega•  17  Safety Engineering, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementBIM market expected to reach around USD $18.8 billion by 2024.docxAccording to a report declared by Grand Research Store, the BIM business is expected to garner profits of $3.6 billion in 2016, and it is predicted to reach $18.8 billion by the year 2024. In 2016, BIM Software segment generated the... moreAccording to a report declared by Grand Research Store, the BIM business is expected to garner profits of $3.6 billion in 2016, and it is predicted to reach $18.8 billion by the year 2024. In 2016, BIM Software segment generated the highest revenue share of $ 2.7 billion growingSave to LibraryDownloadby NIBT  Education•  2  BIM Education, BIM-technologyAligning Project Requirements with Team Capabilities (slides with notes)Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  11  Construction Project Management, Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Competency MappingRelación de los EIR con la metodología BIMAdentrándonos más en la metodología BIM (Building Information Modeling) caemos en la necesidad de conocer los términos que se manejan. Es importante conocerlos ya que nos ayudan a determinar necesidades, costos, procesos y resultados del... moreAdentrándonos más en la metodología BIM (Building Information Modeling) caemos en la necesidad de conocer los términos que se manejan. Es importante conocerlos ya que nos ayudan a determinar necesidades, costos, procesos y resultados del modelo BIM por medio de la relación entre el cliente y el encargado del proyecto. Requisito de información del empleador EIR (Employers Information Requirement). Es el primer documento que se deben redactar cuando se trabaja con la metodología BIM. Básicamente se definen todos los requisitos de información que el cliente necesita del proyecto y como se van a gestionar. Importante tomar en cuenta que este documento es necesario para la redacción del Plan de Ejecución BIM. Estos requisitos se dividen en tres áreas: • Área de gestión: Esta área incluye la función que desempeña cada colaborador del proyecto, la forma en la que se desarrollara el trabajo colaborativo, cronogramas y formas de entrega. • Área Comercial: Se muestran los resultados y metas que se desean lograr con el análisis de los datos anteriormente planteados. • Área técnica: La cual contiene aspectos como en que software se desarrollara el proyecto, el medio y formato en que se compartirán la información los participantes y cualquier otro aspecto relacionado con la información del proyecto como capacitaciones, asesorías, etc. Es importante que en esta área se incluya el Nivel de Desarrollo del modelo.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jean Carlo Salinas Menegat•  6  Civil Engineering, Project Management, BIM Education, BIM and Construction PlanningWhy BIM Fails?BIM - Back to Basics!Save to LibraryDownloadby Chun Keung NG•  6  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM/IPD SpecialistsFRAMEWORK FOR INTEGRATING BIM EDUCATION IN THE CURRICULUM OF AEC PROGRAMS 1This study examines BIM education, theories of spatial skills, and space and time constraints in BIM education curriculum of AEC programs, towards developing a theoretical framework for integrating BIM education in the curriculum of AEC... moreThis study examines BIM education, theories of spatial skills, and space and time constraints in BIM education curriculum of AEC programs, towards developing a theoretical framework for integrating BIM education in the curriculum of AEC programs. The research developed a theoretical background along three dimensions: BIM education, pre-requisite for BIM education, and theories of spatial skills development. The study found that BIM education is experiencing time and space constraints owing to its vast content and pre-requisites such as knowledge of 2D and 3D Computer Aided Design (CAD). Also, the study found that complementing the traditional methods of teaching engineering graphics with the use of 2D and 3D CAD will enhance spatial skills development of the secondary school students and motivate them to pursue AEC careers. A conceptual framework was developed and propositions were made on the basis of the theoretical background. The study recommends that the knowledge of 3D CAD, 2D CAD and manual drafting should be acquired in the secondary school and should serve as pre-requisite to BIM education in the university.Save to LibraryDownloadby oluseye olugboyega•  8  Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM EducationAPPLICATION OF BUILDING INFORMATION MODELLING (BIM) IN A RESIDENTIAL PROJECT IN INDIA: BENEFIT-COST ANALYSISBuilding information modelling (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates... moreBuilding information modelling (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates simulations that can be used for the project manager, owners, facility manager or other parties to look after the project and deliver the project more ef iciently. The implementation of BIM in India is still at a nascent stage due to a lack of knowledge of the advantages of BIM. Moreover, there have been only a few case studies conducted in India about BIM; therefore, the principal agenda of this study is to enlighten the readers about the bene its accrued if BIM is applied, in the residential project, before the construction. Hence, the authors had taken a residential project located in Gujarat, India, for a case study. The 3D and 4D models of the project were generated; 8 errors were identi ied that could have been detected before construction if BIM had been applied. The cost needed to make a BIM model was |171,050. Whereas, the amount that could have been saved if BIM was implemented beforehand was discovered as |246,773. Consequently, the bene its to cost ratio for two weeks in delay was determined as 1.44. It can be recognised as the bene it of utilising BIM for construction.Save to LibraryDownloadby INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIES AND MANAGEMENT RESEARCH I J E T M R JOURNAL and +1Harshil S. Thakkar•  5  India, Gujarat, BIM Education, Building Information ModellingEstrategias docentes para el proceso de trabajo BIMAt the University of Zaragoza we have taught, for six years now, a subject on BIM called EGA 5. Despite the good results obtained so far, we believe in continuous improvement and thus this communication is based on the analysis of other... moreAt the University of Zaragoza we have taught, for six years now, a subject on BIM called EGA 5. Despite the good results obtained so far, we believe in continuous improvement and thus this communication is based on the analysis of other international teaching experiences made with BIM. Among other things, we found that successful experiences are based on collaboration at various levels, and that the teaching of BIM should be started at the beginning of architectural education. Translating this analysis to our case, we have outlined possible strategies to apply in the future.Save to LibraryDownloadby Miguel  Sancho Mir and +1Luis Agustín-Hernández•  5  Collaboration, BIM (Architecture), 3D Modelling (Architecture), BIM Education34 4D PLANNING AND SCHEDULING (4DPS): GROUNDING CONSTRUCTION IT RESEARCH IN INDUSTRY PRACTICESave to LibraryDownloadby Luis Alarcón•  105  Civil Engineering, Russian Studies, Information Technology, Research MethodologyREVIT Architecture 2012 Поглед отвътреКнигата представя възможностите на REVIT 2012 за изграждане на архитектурен модел. Тя е единственото издание за този програмен продукт на български език.Save to LibraryDownloadby Boyan  Georgiev•  4  Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM Education, Tutorial, Revit301in BIM Maturity MatrixThe BIM Maturity Matrix (BIm³) is intended for low-detail self-assessment of organisations and project teams. The BIm³ has two axes-BIM Capability Sets and the BIM Maturity Index. This document is released as part of the BIMe under... moreThe BIM Maturity Matrix (BIm³) is intended for low-detail self-assessment of organisations and project teams. The BIm³ has two axes-BIM Capability Sets and the BIM Maturity Index. This document is released as part of the BIMe under Creative Commons.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  12  Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementApplication of Building Information Modelling (Bim) in a Residential Project in India: Benefit-Cost AnalysisBuilding information (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates simulations... moreBuilding information (BIM) is becoming a better-known collaboration process in our construction industry. BIM is a systematic process that amalgamates all the other geometric computer-generated models, or data that creates simulations that can be used for the project manager, owners, facility manager or other parties to look after the project and deliver the project more efficiently. The implementation of BIM in India is still at a nascent stage due to a lack of knowledge of the advantages of BIM. Moreover, there have been only a few case studies conducted in India about BIM; therefore, the principal agenda of this study is to enlighten the readers about the benefits accrued if BIM is applied, in the residential project, before the construction. Hence, the authors had taken a residential project located in Gujarat, India, for a case study. The 3D and 4D models of the project were generated; 8 errors were identified that could have been detected before construction if BIM had been ap...Save to LibraryDownloadby Moses Adetunmbi•  7  Engineering, Building Information Modeling, India, GujaratBuilding information modelling framework: A research and delivery foundation for industry stakeholdersSave to LibraryDownloadby Hishyar Mohammed•  18  Engineering, Architecture, Visualization, Project ManagementA Critical Review of BIM for FM with an Emphasis on OfficesAbstract Building information modelling for facility management sounds like a tongue twister , but it could be the start of a digital revolution that could help to transform the facility management industry and the role of FM managers in... moreAbstractBuilding information modelling for facility management sounds like a tongue twister , but it could be the start of a digital revolution that could help to transform the facility management industry and the role of FM managers in AECFM industry. There is great fragmentation of the architecture, engineering, construction and facility management industry. This fragmentation could be attributed to gaps between the different phases of projects. True information gaps and lack of efficient information management throughout the facility lifecycle have often resulted in increased cost and time, reduced quality and maintainability, and the inability to efficiently access and communicate information. BIM for FM could be the system to cut these information gaps and increase the efficiency of information management.The purpose of this research was to review BIM for FM with an emphasis on Offices. The research has an emphasis on owners and facility managers of office buildings. The selected participants all had BIM for FM experience which enabled them to provide information and views about early adoption of, the benefits and the challenges of the implementation of BIM in FM. BIM for FM is still in the early stage of implementation for innovative industry leaders, so this leaves very few practical cases and even a certain lack of knowledge in academia. The designing, constructing and operating and maintaining of offices facilities involves a large number of different parties and it is quite a complex processThis research firstly examines the existing literature on the various subject areas; facilities management; problems with the current facility management process; BIM; BIM for FM and COBie. Firstly, the theory relating to facilities management and the current problems are examined. BIM and its adoption in the construction industry is looked at before BIM for FM is examined under various headings including the early introduction of FM to the BIM project process; the challenges of BIM for FM; the benefits of BIM for FM and COBie.The findings of the research showed;The main reason for current/future engagement with BIM for FM was the real prospect of increasing efficiency and productivity of their FM operating and maintaining processes by reducing time and cost. There is currently little or no current engagement/adoption BIM for FM in Ireland, this appears to be due lack of client knowledge and demand in the general facility management industry, which may be hindering the capabilities of the Irish stakeholders to engage and leverage the BIM for FM.The research highlighted the fact that all the participants see the benefit of the early introduction of FMs into the BIM process. Again there is very little early FM input at present in Ireland, this is due to the lack of client awareness of the benefits; this seems to be a common theme in relation to the Irish participants. There seem to be a few main common themes from the research findings and analysis. The first theme is that the UK participants are a step ahead on the BIM for FM road. This could be due to the UK being a larger, more innovative property market in terms of construction and facility management. It could be due to the fact that the two UK participants are two of the largest property-related companies in the UK with great leverage and capabilities for new and innovative technologies. The common theme from the Irish participants is a lack of owner and facility management awareness, knowledge and demand for BIM for FM. This could be due to many reasons including lack of available funds to implement new work processes, lack of innovative people at the top of companies who see the cost and extra work involved and are unwilling to do it or an ICT lag in the facility management industry.Another theme is around effective collaboration, BIM for FM is all about collaboration from the stakeholders. It can be very hard to get buy in from the various stakeholders of any project to make sure that the BIM for FM is utilised to its fullest. This all goes back to having a knowledgeable client/owner that knows what is needed to achieve a proper populated asset model. It should be noted that BIM for FM really fits the design, construction and operation/maintenance business model. This type of business model is well-suited to BIM for FM because the company has all the data from the model and will be operating and maintaining the office facility over a long duration.BIM for FM can help with this collaboration of stakeholders and getting the true data which owners and facility mangers desire, but there are some challenges which are hindering its implementation including; Lack of awareness and knowledgeable owners/FM managers; Lack of effective collaboration between stakeholders and lack of sufficient legal framework; Unclear roles and responsibilities for loading data into the model or databases and maintaining the model; Cultural mind-set in the industry were FM managers are used to doing one way and do not want to change the process.Overall, until there is greater implementation of BIM for FM, it will be hard to get real tangible benefits. There is a clear lack of owner/FM manager knowledge and awareness which needs to be rectified.Recommendations were provided by the participants for each stage of the BIM project process, which give clear and concise advice for any owner or FM manager who may wish to implement BIM for FMSave to LibraryDownloadby Cormac  Q•  4  Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM Education, Facilties / Estate Management, BIM for FMMANAGEMENT OF BUILT HERITAGE VIA THE HBIM PROJECT: A CASE STUDY OF FLOORING AND WALL TILING. LA GESTIÓN DEL PATRIMONIO CONSTRUIDO A TRAVÉS DEL PROYECTO HBIM: UN ESTUDIO DE CASO DE PAVIMENTOS Y ALICATADOSBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a collaborative system that has been fully developed in the design and management of industries involved in Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) sectors. There are, however, very few... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a collaborative system that has been fully developed in the design and management of industries involved in Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC) sectors. There are, however, very few studies aimed at managing information models in the field of architectural and cultural heritage interventions. This research therefore proposes an innovative methodology of analysis and treatment of the information based on a representative 3D graphic model of the flooring and wall tiling of a historic building. The objective is to set up a model of graphic information which guarantees the interoperability of the aforementioned information amongst the diverse disciplines intervening in the conservation and restoration process. The Pavillion of Charles V, a Renaissance-characterised building located in outdoor areas of the Alcazar of Seville, Spain, was selected for the study. This work constitutes a project of intervention based on Heritage or Historic Building Information Modelling, called the " HBIM Project ". Resumen: El Modelado de Información para la Construcción (BIM) es un sistema colaborativo que actualmente está plenamente desarrollado en el diseño y la gestión de las industrias involucradas en el sector de la Arquitectura, Ingeniería y Construcción (Architecture, Engineering and Contruction-AEC). En cambio, en el ámbito de las intervenciones en el Patrimonio Cultural y Arquitectónico, son muy pocos los estudios dedicados a gestionar modelos de información. Por ello, esta investigación propone una metodología innovadora de análisis y tratamiento de la información basada en un Modelo gráfico 3D representativo de pavimentos y alicatados de un Edificio Histórico. La finalidad es crear un modelo de información gráfica que garantice la interoperabilidad de dicha información entre las diversas disciplinas que intervienen en el Proceso de Conservación y Rehabilitación Patrimonial. Para el estudio, se ha seleccionado el Cenador de Carlos V (o de la Alcoba); edificio de carácter renacentista perteneciente a los espacios exteriores del Alcázar de Sevilla, España. Este trabajo constituye un proyecto de intervención basado en un modelo de información patrimonial o del edificio histórico, denominado " Proyecto HBIM ". Palabras clave: Proyecto HBIM, Historic Building Information Modelling, modelo de información patrimonial, restitución fotogramétrica, Arquelogía de la Arquitectura, BIM.Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Enrique Nieto Julián and +3Juan Jose  Moyano CamposDaniel AntónFernando  Rico Delgado•  9  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Arqueología De La Arquitectura, BIM EducationFormation Revit MEPProgramme de formation Revit MEP pour les bureaux d'études qui souhaitent maîtriser le logiciel phare d'autodesk.Save to LibraryDownloadby ARMELLE GOMBAULT•  3  Integrated CAD/CAM systems, BIM Education, Autodesk Revit"Building Information Modeling BIM as a Development tool for the Management of Construction Projects"Despite the tremendous development in the field of digital technology that produced the software and techniques influenced in the field of architecture and construction, and thus the production of architectural and urban, which is... moreDespite the tremendous development in the field of digital technology that produced the software and techniques influenced in the field of architecture and construction, and thus the production of architectural and urban, which is imperative that we keep up with this development, and employment and continuation of the same efficiency in all phases of the project will bridge the gap between design and implementation phase, and the most important of these techniques the use of Building Information Modeling (BIM), it is a Database, Not just 3D Drawings, it refers to a digital collection of software applications designed to facilitate coordination and project collaboration, BIM has the potential to provide more efficient operation, not only as part of design and construction but also in operations and maintenance. Accuracy is another main reason. BIM appears to offer greater accuracy than what our current practices produce. This paper aims to determine the benefits of integrating BIM technique in project management and recognize the role they play in The construction industry and practical feasibility of it compared to the previous systems, the practical study depended on two parts, the first by carrying out structured questionnaire survey from construction industry' experts. The second is a case study. The paper is concluded with some important results. It seeks to show that the BIM systems improve communication, collaboration, higher-quality project decision making, and more comprehensive planning and scheduling. In the end, we should see better quality, plus increases in productivity and profitability.Save to LibraryDownloadby Hayam M . Omayer•  20  Project Management, Sustainable Building Design, BIM (Architecture), Project Risk ManagementAn integrated approach to BIM competency assessment, acquisition and applicationProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to... moreProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to develop their BIM abilities, it is important to identify the BIM competencies that need to be learned, applied on the job, and measured for the purposes of performance improvement. Expanding upon previous research, this paper focuses on individual BIM competencies, the building blocks of organisational capability. The paper first introduces several taxonomies and conceptual models to clarify how individual competencies may be filtered, classified, and aggregated into a seed competency inventory. Competency items are then fed into a specialised knowledge engine to generate flexible assessment tools, learning modules and process workflows. Finally, the paper discusses the many benefits this competency-based approach brings to industry and academia, and ex...Save to LibraryDownloadby Tony Williams•  20  Engineering, Building Information Modeling, Bim, BIM EducationPROPUESTA CURRICULAR BASADA EN BIM PARA LA INTEGRACIÓN DE CONOCIMIENTOS EN LA ENSEÑANZA DE LA INGENIERÍAIn this work it is presented a general description of a curricular proposal that permits the cooperative work of the students in an undergraduate course in civil engineering, for the development of building projects, taking into account... moreIn this work it is presented a general description of a curricular proposal that permits the cooperative work of the students in an undergraduate course in civil engineering, for the development of building projects, taking into account the integration of knowledge acquired in previous semester courses already taken. This proposal was implemented in the January-May 2011, August-December 2012, and January-May 2013 semesters in the school of engineering of the Autonomous University of Yucatan; it consists in a course taught under the view of “Selected Topics of Building Construction,” that is directed to students from the last three semesters of the undergraduate level civil engineering program. As a final product, the students develop building projects using knowledge obtained during their whole career trajectory, integrating specifically concepts taken from courses such as graphical representation, descriptive geometry, materials, building construction processes, cost, computer programming, and tools of informatics. At the end of the course, the students concluded that they were more efficient in the developing of construction projects because this specialized software based proposal permits them to develop necessary skills for being more efficient in the professional practice.Save to LibraryDownloadby Julio  Baeza•BIM EducationUTILISING BIM DATA FOR SMART BUILDING OPERATIONSIn recent years the Architectural, Engineering and Construction (AEC) industry has seen dramatic change, whether it be continually changing client requirements or the disruptive technologies making it hard for some contractors and... moreIn recent years the Architectural, Engineering and Construction (AEC) industry has seen dramatic change, whether it be continually changing client requirements or the disruptive technologies making it hard for some contractors and suppliers to maintain resourcing and capabilities. The industry is currently facing a multitude of challenges due to the vast amounts of data outputted from smart buildings and the IoT. BIM has the potential to reduce these challenges with inbuilt databases and workflows for data collation and collaboration. Semantic web technologies are proving to be functional and helps leverage challenges faced related to BIM technologies during information exchange. BIM can be used to rationalise data and make it more interoperable with IoT systems; many of the recent developments in the smart building fields do not utilise the BIM to its full potential.This study's purpose is to explore current academic research and current live metadata projects and explore the integration of the BIM benefits to this workflow and industry standard processes. The conclusion outlines a structured conceptual framework outlining how databases and BIM data can help in the delivery of Smart built environmentsSave to LibraryDownloadby Sam Norledge•  20  Building Information Modeling, BIM Education, Smart Cities, BIM-technologyPASPORTIZACE PASPORTIZATIONSave to LibraryDownloadby Zdeněk Rudovský•  5  BIM (Architecture), Facility Management, Facilities Management, BIM EducationBIM -YAPI BİLGİ MODELLEMESİ'NE GEÇİŞ VE UYGULAMA SÜREÇLERİNİN İNCELENMESİ: 3 VAKA ANALİZİ  /ANALYSIS OF TRANSITION AND APPLICATION PROCESSES IN BUILDING INFORMATION MODELLING : 3 CASE STUDIESYapı; işveren, danışman, tasarımcı, yüklenici, onaylayıcı kurumlar vb. paydaşların katılımlarıyla tasarım, inşaat, işletme, yıkım veya yeniden işlevlendirme yaşam döngüsü süreçleriyle oluşmaktadır. Bu paydaşların ve süreçlerin klasik... moreYapı; işveren, danışman, tasarımcı, yüklenici, onaylayıcı kurumlar vb. paydaşların katılımlarıyla tasarım, inşaat, işletme, yıkım veya yeniden işlevlendirme yaşam döngüsü süreçleriyle oluşmaktadır. Bu paydaşların ve süreçlerin klasik yöntemle koordine edilerek yönetilirken koordinasyon, zaman, maliyet, sürdürülebilirlik ve işletme gibi konularda verim kayıplarına yol açmaktadır. Karşılaşılan verim kayıplarını en aza indirmek için Yapı Bilgi Modellemesi (YBM/BIM) sistemi geliştirilmiştir. Bu sistemle tüm paydaşların tek bir model üzerinde birlikte çalışarak yapının tüm yaşam döngüsünün planlanıp yönetilmesi sağlanmaktadır. BIM sistemi; yapının 3D olarak modellenip, disiplin içi ve disiplinlerarası çakışma ve koordinasyonun sağlanabildiği, projenin inşaat süreçlerinin planlanlanıp simüle edilebildiği, maliyet ve hakedişlerinin hesaplanabildiği, sürdürülebilirlik analizlerinin yapılabildiği; işletme ve bakım onarım için gerekli bilgi ve modelin oluşturulabildiği bir sistemdir. Bu sistemle tüm paydaşlar tek model üzerinde çalışarak; yapının sanal ortamda ve sahada inşaatını yaparak tüm yaşam döngüsü planlayabilmektedir. Klasik yöntemle proje oluşturma süreçleri ile BIM sistemi ile proje oluşturma süreçleri kıyaslandığında, proje oluşturma süreçlerinin neredeyse tamamen değiştiği ve büyük bir kültür değişimi olduğu görülmektedir. Yapılan araştırmalarda klasik yöntemden BIM sistemine geçiş yapmak isteyen ofislerin BIM sistemine geçiş ve uygulama süreçlerinde zorluklarla karşılaştığı gözlemlenmektedir. Bu tezle, BIM sistemine geçiş ve uygulama süreci için kaynak oluşturulmaya çalışılmıştır. Tez içeriğinde, BIM sistemine neden ihtiyaç duyulduğu, Türkiye’de ve dünyada BIM sisteminin kullanımı ele alınıp, BIM sisteminin uygulama planı üzerinde durulmuştur. Türkiye’deki proje ofisleri arasından teze kaynak oluşturabilecek özelliklere sahip üç proje ofisi seçilip BIM sistemine geçiş ve uygulama süreçlerini analiz edecek vaka çalışması kapsamında sorular sorulmuştur. Alınan veriler değerlendirilerek geçiş süreci için adımlar oluşturulmuştur. Bu adımlar BIM’e geçiş yapacak yeni proje ofis ve kullanıcılarına rehber oluşturacak nitelikte tezde sıralanmıştır. Bu vaka çalışması ile tez, mimarlık alanında yapılmış özgün bir çalışmadır. Anahtar Sözcükler: Yapı Bilgi Modellemesi, YBM, BIM, BEP, BIM Yürütme Planı, BIM’e Geçiş.ABSTRACT ANALYSIS OF TRANSITION AND APPLICATION PROCESSES IN BUILDING INFORMATION MODELLING : 3 CASE STUDIES Building consists of the life cycle processes of design, construction, operation, demolitionor re functioning, and with the participation of stakeholders such as employers, consultants,designers, contractors and approving institutions. The management of these st akeholders andprocesses through classical methods lead s to in efficienc ies and losses in time, cost, sustainabilityand operation. The Building Information Modeling ( system has been developed tominimize the yield losses encountered. With this system, all stakeholders work together on asingle model to plan and manage the entire life cyc le of the building.BIMsystem is a system that enables various concepts such as 3D modeling of buildings,both intra disciplinary and inter disciplinary conflict and coordination, the planning andsimulation of project construction processes, the calculat ion of costs and progress p aymentssustainability analyses and the generation of all necessary information for operation, maintenanceand repair. With this system, all stakeholders are able to work on a single model and plan theentire life cycle of a bui lding by building the structure both in a virtual environment and on site.The comparison of project creation processes with the classical method and the BIM systemreveals that project creation processes have changed almost completely and that a major cul turalchange has taken place. Studies suggest that the project offices that want to change over from theclassical method to the BIM system face difficulties both in the transition to the BIM system andits implementation s. T his thesis attempt s to create r esources for the transition to and application sof the BIM system.The content s of th is thesis focus on why the BIM system is needed, the use s of the BIMsystem both domestically in Turkey and internationally, and the implementation plan of the BIMsyste m. Three project offices which have the characteristics to create a source for the thesis wereselected from offices in Turkey, and questions were asked within the scope of the case stud y toanalyze the transition to the BIM system and its implementation p rocesses. By evaluating the datareceived, steps have been created for the transition process. These steps are listed in the thesisthat will guide the new project office s and its users in transition to BIM. With this case study, th isthesis is an original study in the field of architecture.Keywords: Building Informatıon Modelling, BIM, BEP, BIM Execution Plan, Transatation of BIM.Save to LibraryDownloadby fatih uzun•  10  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM-technologyInformation Management in Construction - The need for more responsive roles- Building Information modelling is transforming the roles and responsibilities of professionals who design, deliver, operate, and maintain all types of buildings, structures and whole cities. - The flow of digital information has many... more- Building Information modelling is transforming the roles and responsibilities of professionals who design, deliver, operate, and maintain all types of buildings, structures and whole cities.- The flow of digital information has many repercussions and are affecting how project teams are formed, how they communicate with each other, and how they deliver their services and products.- Projects are increasingly procured with comprehensive – but often unclear - information requirements. Project teams are required to respond to multiple local and international standards, complex data exchange scenarios, and a wide-range of ad-hoc collaboration workflows.- It is no longer valid to treat roles as a static set of responsibilities or to develop new roles that cannot respond to rapid digitisation, automation and standardisation.- With digital transformation, what one ‘traditional’ role was assigned to do in the past, can now be better played by a new specialised role. And what another traditional role was assigned to do, will soon be played – significantly better - by artificial intelligence.- Defining a role through formal one-off qualification is no longer enough; also, gaining recognition through industry certification is losing relevance. Both qualification and certification are inherently slow to adapt to rapid change. Every definition of a BIM Manager - or even a Project Manager - which has been drafted five years ago, must be re-written this year. What will be defined this year must be redefined within three years; and so on. When it comes to roles – project roles in particular - and their responsibilities, the pace of change is unforgiving.- Therefore, there’s a dire need to develop digital-transformation-ready roles that are able to respond to rapid change, and to meet the evolving information management requirements of construction projects.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  15  Information Technology, Management Information Systems, Information Management, AssessmentMacro BIM adoption: Comparative market analysisThe adoption of Building Information Modelling (BIM) across markets is a pertinent topic for academic discourse and industry attention. This is evidenced by the unrelenting release of national BIM initiatives; new BIM protocols; and... moreThe adoption of Building Information Modelling (BIM) across markets is a pertinent topic for academic discourse and industry attention. This is evidenced by the unrelenting release of national BIM initiatives; new BIM protocols; and candidate international standards. This paper is the second part of an ongoing Macro BIM Adoption study: the first paper " Macro BIM Adoption: Conceptual Structures " (Succar and Kassem, 2015) introduced five conceptual models for assessing macro BIM adoption across markets and informing the development of BIM adoption policies. This second paper clarifies how these models are validated through capturing the input of 99 experts from 21 countries using a survey tool; highlights the commonalities and differences between sample countries with respect to BIM adoption; and introduces sample tools and templates for either developing or calibrating BIM adoption policies. Survey data collected indicate that all five conceptual models demonstrate high levels of 'clarity', 'accuracy' and 'usefulness', the three metrics measured. They also indicate (1) varying rates of BIM diffusion across countries with BIM capability near the lower-end of the spectrum; (2) varying levels of BIM maturity with-the mean of-most macro BIM components falling below the medium level; (3) varying diffusion dynamics across countries with the prevalence of the middle-out diffusion dynamic; (4) varying policy actions across countries with a predominance of the passive policy approach; and (5) varying distribution of diffusion responsibilities among player groups with no detectable dominant pattern across countries. The two papers provide an opportunity to improve our understanding of BIM adoption dynamics across countries. Future research can build upon the models and tools introduced to enable (a) an expansion of benchmarking data through surveying additional countries; (b) identifying BIM adoption changes in surveyed countries over time; (c) correlating changes in adoption rates/patterns with policy interventions; (d) identifying BIM policy variations within the same country; (e) establishing statistical correlations between the conceptual models; and (f) developing new tools to facilitate BIM policy development and encouraging BIM adoption.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Mohamad  Kassem•  10  Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementESTUDIO DE COSTOS RELACIONADOS CON LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN DE METODOLOGÍAS BIM INFORME FINALESTUDIO DE COSTOS RELACIONADOS CON LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN DE METODOLOGÍAS BIMSave to LibraryDownloadby JAVIER EDUARDO VALLEJOS•  3  Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), BIM Education, BIM Performance MeasurementAn integrated approach to BIM competency assessment, acquisition and applicationProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to... moreProfessional, organisational and educational institutions have started to adopt BIM software tools and adapt their existing delivery systems to satisfy evolving market requirements. To enable individuals within these organisations to develop their BIM abilities, it is important to identify the BIM competencies that need to be learned, applied on the job, and measured for the purposes of performance improvement. Expanding upon previous research, this paper focuses on individual BIM competencies, the building blocks of organisational capability. The paper first introduces several taxonomies and conceptual models to clarify how individual competencies may be filtered, classified, and aggregated into a seed competency inventory. Competency items are then fed into a specialised knowledge engine to generate flexible assessment tools, learning modules and process workflows. Finally, the paper discusses the many benefits this competency-based approach brings to industry and academia, and explores future conceptual and tool development efforts to enable industry-wide BIM performance assessment and improvement.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +2Willy SherAnthony P Williams•  29  Building Information Modeling, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Interoperability, BimBIM Framework Essentials - BIM FieldsThis presentation (and video) explains the BIM Fields model, the first dimension of the Tri-axial Model. BIM Fields refer to all topics, activities, and actors across the BIM domain. The Venn diagram (three overlapping circles) identifies... moreThis presentation (and video) explains the BIM Fields model, the first dimension of the Tri-axial Model. BIM Fields refer to all topics, activities, and actors across the BIM domain. The Venn diagram (three overlapping circles) identifies Field Types (Technology, Process and Policy), Field Components (Players, Deliverables and Requirements), Field interactions and Field overlaps.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  11  Information Technology, Technology, E-learning, Construction ManagementBIM – ADDING VALUE BY ASSISTING COLLABORATIONSave to LibraryDownloadby Jennifer Macdonald•  4  Collaboration, Bim, BIM Education, BEIIC301in.FR La Matrice de Maturité BIMLa Matrice de Maturité BIM (BIm3) est un Outil de Connaissance servant à l'identification de la maturité actuelle d'une organisation ou d'une équipe de projet. La BIm3 a deux axes – Ensembles de Capacité BIM et l'Index de Maturité BIM.... moreLa Matrice de Maturité BIM (BIm3) est un Outil de Connaissance servant à l'identification de la maturité actuelle d'une organisation ou d'une équipe de projet. La BIm3 a deux axes – Ensembles de Capacité BIM et l'Index de Maturité BIM.Cette version française a été traduite par Patrick Riedo d’Objectif BIM.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  14  Construction Technology, Construction Management, BIM (Architecture), Construction Project ManagementManagerial and Non-managerial Employees Perception iIn manufacturing industries, there is a constant need to maintain a desired safety level and to improve upon the present safety level in order to safeguard lives, property, investments and the environment (Bjorge and Bratseth, 1996; Khan... moreIn manufacturing industries, there is a constant need to maintain a desired safety level and to improve upon the present safety level in order to safeguard lives, property, investments and the environment (Bjorge and Bratseth, 1996; Khan and Amyotte, 2002; Mearns, and Flin, 1995; Rundmo, Hestad & Ulleberg 1998; Vanderperre and Makhanov, 2002). The importance of safety in the manufacturing industry cannot be overemphasized. To make a workplace safe, management must know what employees are thinking. Employees’ opinions and perceptions of health and safety play a key role in any organization's success and may differ across different groups of workers. As a result of this, the aim of this paper is to investigate managerial and non-managerial employees’ perception of health and safety in selected Manufacturing Industries in Jamaica as well as their current practices. The study attempted to determine if there is a difference in the perception of managerial and non-managerial employees. The target population in this study consists of two groups; managerial and non-managerial workers. The principles of Convenience sampling and Non-proportional quota sampling were used to select each participant in the study. Questionnaire surveys were distributed to managers and non-managers on a voluntary basis with the sincere hopes of obtaining at least 50% participation. The data was analyzed using the Univariate descriptive statistics principle. The Univariate descriptive statistics analysis was used, because it explores each variable in a data set separately and also all the potential variables which is integral in testing if there are relationships between management and employees perception of health and safety. The study has revealed that there is a significant difference between managers and non-managerial perceptions of health and safety in the workplace. In addition, the data showed that 42% of the managers and 54% of non-managers indicated that incidents and/or near misses are not adequately investigated. . This implies that organizations need to focus on managing employees perceptions in an effort to guarantee that the reporting of minor incidents and/or near misses are recorded and captured in a profound manner. Keywords: Perceptions; Risk; Near Misses; Safety Culture; Health and Safety;Save to LibraryDownloadby Dane A Malabver•  15  Sustainable Development, Occupational Health & Safety, Construction Project Management, Sustainable Building MaterialsDiscover The Essentials Of Electrical Design Courses Introduction to Electrical designElectrical design courses, BIM course, and other online electrical engineering courses are exclusively available at NIBT&#039;s e-Learning platform. Learn from the basic and enhance your knowledge of Revit Electrical courses only at NIBT... moreElectrical design courses, BIM course, and other online electrical engineering courses are exclusively available at NIBT&#039;s e-Learning platform. Learn from the basic and enhance your knowledge of Revit Electrical courses only at NIBT eLearning.Save to LibraryDownloadby NIBT  Education•  2  BIM Education, Design of Electrical SystemsForward 2020 - Uso del dato interoperabile ed approccio open nei processi informativi delle costruzioniIl volume raccoglie gli articoli presentati negli webinar dell'edizione 2020 di Forward, il think tank di Gruppo Contec focalizzato sui temi della digitalizzazione del comparto delle costruzioni. L'iniziativa è stata curata da BIS-lab,... moreIl volume raccoglie gli articoli presentati negli webinar dell'edizione 2020 di Forward, il think tank di Gruppo Contec focalizzato sui temi della digitalizzazione del comparto delle costruzioni. L'iniziativa è stata curata da BIS-lab, laboratorio R&D di Gruppo Contec, e anche in questa edizione si è concentrata sulle materie dell'interoperabilità ed, in particolare, dell'openBIM.I contributi presentati sono stati selezionati da un Comitato Scientifico fra quelli che hanno risposto alla call for paper.Save to LibraryDownloadby Michele Carradori and +12Andrea BassoChiara DurantiMaria AzzalinTommaso MelchiniAndrea GiustiCamilla FolliniGiovanni GiudicePaola SomaPaola GiordaniGiovanni Alessandro EspositoAndrea FronkAlessandro Santini•  13  Project Management, Interoperability, Computational Design, BimGenerative design for constructability improvements with BIM | Lean approachThe construction industry suffers from the lack of adoption of advanced technologies. As a consequence, construction is among the least productive industries across various sectors. The researchers often point out that the critical issue... moreThe construction industry suffers from the lack of adoption of advanced technologies. As a consequence, construction is among the least productive industries across various sectors. The researchers often point out that the critical issue is the lack of integration throughout the building project life cycle. Lack of information integration causes reworks unexpected changes, lower construction quality, delays, and on-site conflicts, which could be addressed in advance by a proper constructability study executed already in the design phase. Constructability is a technique that examines the logic of construction from the beginning to the end, seeking technical solutions that reduce project cost, time, and waste. The central part of the thesis provides a comprehensive overview and analysis of non-technical and technical constructability issues. Special attention is given to Lean and BIM approaches, which may serve as driving mechanisms that substantially improve constructability. The presented work tries to identify the value and integration of mechanisms for the improvement of constructability issues. Among the technical issues, the rationalization of the design plays an essential role in improving the execution and reducing project costs and delays.The final part of the thesis focuses on the rationalization of design addressing constructability issues by employing Generative Design. This approach is demonstrated in a case study of a complex building –Stožice Arena. The Arena case study shows the design rationalization techniques using generative design and machine learning, enabling informed shaping and clustering of the building envelope. The presented solution contributes to the evolving field of future architectural-structural design methods.Save to LibraryDownloadby Jose Luis Rodriguez Hernandez•  7  Machine Learning, Lean Construction, Parametric Design (Architecture), Generative designLifecycle information transformation and exchange for delivering and managing digital and physical assetsThe rapid pace of digitalisation within the Construction Industry and the divergence from traditional practice inherent to this transformation requires the development of new knowledge to frame these emerging practices. Acting on... moreThe rapid pace of digitalisation within the Construction Industry and the divergence from traditional practice inherent to this transformation requires the development of new knowledge to frame these emerging practices. Acting on increasing digitalisation pressures, many national and international standards, protocols, and specifications have been generated with little conceptual framing or with no theoretical underpinning. This positioning paper responds to practical business needs of organisations and project teams, builds upon existing conceptual constructs, and delivers a modular information management framework. The Lifecycle Information Transformation and Exchange (LITE) framework is an extendable conceptual skeletal for defining, managing, and integrating project and asset information. Developed, described, and explained for ongoing field testing, the LITE framework integrates multiple components-information statuses, states, milestones, flows, gates, routes, loops, actions, sets, and tiers-which collectively lay the foundations for an open access digital platform being developed by an international Community of Research and Practice. The framework describes-and aims to predict-information flows across an asset's lifecycle. Its modular conceptual structure, iterative flows, and task-oriented terminology are calibrated to guide the integrated design, delivery, and utilisation of assets of any type, function, or scale.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar and +1Erik Poirier•  17  Information Systems, Management Information Systems, Construction Management, Lean ConstructionA roadmap for BIM adoption and implementation in developing countries the Pakistan casePurpose Digital media is reshaping architectural design by introducing new tools, methods and workflows. Among various AEC tools, Building Information Modeling (BIM) has gained popularity due to its collaboration platform enabling... morePurpose Digital media is reshaping architectural design by introducing new tools, methods and workflows. Among various AEC tools, Building Information Modeling (BIM) has gained popularity due to its collaboration platform enabling cross-disciplinary teamwork during whole life cycle of buildings. BIM has further transformed culture and processes associated with design, construction and operation of buildings, hence triggering new building regulations in developed countries. However, in developing countries, BIM implementation is facing several barriers, such as lack of investment in technology and training, hesitation in quitting traditional tools and practices, etc. The purpose of this paper is to highlight potentials of BIM for developing countries, which are in need of more sustainable policies for enhancing their economic and environmental performances. Design/methodology/approach Throughout the text, a literature review on BIM including its dimensions and benefits, impacts on architectural design and adoption in global and local contexts is provided. In case study, surveys and structured interviews are conducted with BIM user and non-BIM user architects throughout Pakistan. Beyond 2D/3D modeling, the use of BIM applications for sustainable design process such as scheduling (4D), cost estimation (5D), performance analysis and facilities management (6D) is investigated. Findings Using analytical tools of an online surveying tool and SPSS statistical software, barriers and motivations for BIM implementation in Pakistan are determined. Strategies for further BIM adoption and implementation via “education and training institutions” and “supporting organizations and institutions” are defined. Originality/value As a developing country, Pakistan shall be moving the barriers for the spread of BIM technology. Recent research covered the entire AEC sector (Masood et al. , 2014; Sohu et al. , 2017; Ali et al. , 2018), yet this paper focuses specifically on architectural design and practice field. In order to find out experiences and expectations about BIM technology in the architecture sector, professionals are surveyed and four chief architects are interviewed. How far have Pakistani architects adopted BIM? For which project types and scales is BIM more serviceable for them? Which BIM applications are they implementing to overcome the limitations in their professional practice? In Pakistan, where sustainability, in terms of scheduling, cost estimation, performance analysis and facilities management, is an indispensible measure for local practices, has implementation of BIM technology achieved sustainability in architectural design process? What are the motivations of Pakistani architects for becoming BIM users in future?Save to LibraryDownloadby uzair maqsood and +1TC Girginkaya Akdag•  12  Architecture, BIM (Architecture), Pakistan, Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)3D Modeling (to understand) Palladio Deconstruction, Reconstruction, Modeling of La Rotonda—. The teaching workgroup of the CoDE Lab of the Politecnico di Milano has always believed that analyzing, deconstructing and reconstructing the architecture teaches a lot in terms of understanding. If the process is done correctly, it... more—. The teaching workgroup of the CoDE Lab of the Politecnico di Milano has always believed that analyzing, deconstructing and reconstructing the architecture teaches a lot in terms of understanding. If the process is done correctly, it entirely retraces the creative dynamics developed by the original designer. Subsequently, the practice we developed in teamwork is to choose a notable architectural work, designed and/or created by a Master of architecture, and to reproduce it in all details: aesthetical-formal, morphological, technological, structural, modular, etc. The final result is a well-developed reconstructed model of great specific interest. The true subject deals with architects of great stature and professional capabilities, who based their work and their career on the application of original "methods", rules and logics representing the foundation of their architecture. This case study deals with a recent research line based on Andrea Palladio's architecture, and especially on his villas. Palladio is one of the most famous and imitated architect of the world and his architecture has deeply affected whole generations of architects. Palladio is also one of the first, and most known, architects-writers and in his books we can get enough information to study and to do a 3D CAAD reconstruction, also of those parts that have never been built.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andrea Cammarata•  9  Rendering (Computer Graphics), BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), RepresentationSetup a Revit Template from Existing ProjectUse project templates as a starting point for new projects. Use the default templates, or define custom templates to enforce office standards. A project template provides a starting point for a new project, including view templates,... moreUse project templates as a starting point for new projects. Use the default templates, or define custom templates to enforce office standards.A project template provides a starting point for a new project, including view templates, loaded families, defined settings (such as units, fill patterns, line styles, line weights, view scales, and more), and geometry, if desired.As installed, Revit provides several templates for different disciplines and types of building projects.You can also create custom templates to address specific needs or to ensure adherence to office standards.Project templates use the file extension RTE.Save to LibraryDownloadby Thabelo Netshivhungululu•  3  BIM Education, Revit, Autodesk RevitBathing Water QualitySave to LibraryDownloadby Aruaman K Ataria•  2  BIM Education, BIM-technology301in.ES Matriz de Madurez BIMLa Matriz de Madurez BIM (BIm3) es una Herramienta de Conocimiento para identificar la Madurez BIM actual de organizaciones o Equipos de Proyecto. La BIm3 tiene 2 ejes: el Conjunto de Capacidades BIM y el Índice de Madurez BIM. La Matriz... moreLa Matriz de Madurez BIM (BIm3) es una Herramienta de Conocimiento para identificar la Madurez BIM actual de organizaciones o Equipos de Proyecto. La BIm3 tiene 2 ejes: el Conjunto de Capacidades BIM y el Índice de Madurez BIM. La Matriz de Madurez BIM está pensada para la auto-evaluación de organizaciones a un nivel bajo. Este documento se publicó en Inglés el 7 de julio de 2016. La versión española ha sido traducida por Víctor Roig de BIMETRIC Laboratorio de Procesos SL.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  14  Spanish, Construction Technology, Construction Management, Assessing PerformanceBIM Education, BIM in Practice (11 co-authors)Building Information Modelling (BIM) is a transformative approach to designing, constructing and operating the built environment. BIM includes a wide range of concepts, tools and workflows which need to be learned and applied by industry... moreBuilding Information Modelling (BIM) is a transformative approach to designing, constructing and operating the built environment. BIM includes a wide range of concepts, tools and workflows which need to be learned and applied by industry stakeholders. BIM Education represents the process of acquiring the necessary knowledge and the required skills to generate BIM deliverables and satisfy their respective requirements.The documents gathered here stem from the efforts of the BIM Education Working Group (EWG). The EWG started its six month mandate back in December 2011 and included 11 members, equally split between industry (practicing professionals) and academia (university/TAFE lecturers and researchers).There are three documents in the BIM Education section. Read together, they represent the position of the EWG, an invitation for an open discussion, and a foundation for further work. Read separately, each document covers a specific aspect of our work:–– Document E1 introduces BIM Education, the group’s objectives and the structure underlying this effort. It also identifies BIM Learners and their varied requirements–– Document E2 identifies BIM Learning providers and the current status of BIM Education–– Document E3 introduces the BIM Learning Spectrum and a draft Collaborative BIM Education FrameworkAt the conclusion of each document, a summary set of BIM Educational Principles (EP)s is provided. These 20 principles highlight the group’s position and provide opportunities for future discussions covering:–– why BIM Education is the shared responsibility of industry and academia–– what needs to be done to identify the BIM learning requirements of all construction industry stakeholders–– where best to start in a suitably comprehensive BIM learning approach–– who needs to participate in defining, developing and delivering BIM education–– how best to convert BIM educational principles into BIM learning opportunities–– when a BIM education mechanism can be instigated to deliver BIM learning dividendsThe BIM Education working group hopes this effort resonates well with all those who stand to benefit from a collaborative approach to BIM Education. We also hope the three documents, the framework and the embedded principles instigate a fruitful discussion between - and within - industry and academia.Save to LibraryDownloadby Bilal Succar•  24  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling, Interoperability, BimUse of GIS for SunRise Smart City project, large scale demonstrator of the Smart City— This paper presents the use of the Geographic information for data management and visualization in a smart city project (SunRise – Smart City), conducted at the Scientific Campus of the University of Lille. The campus stands for a small... more— This paper presents the use of the Geographic information for data management and visualization in a smart city project (SunRise – Smart City), conducted at the Scientific Campus of the University of Lille. The campus stands for a small town with around 25 000 users. It includes 150 buildings and 100 km of urban networks. Arc GIS is used for the management and visualization of data concerning the urban network asset. The operating data of the water and energy networks are collected using smart sensors. Interactive data visualization is integrated in Arc GIS using web application. It allows to visualize the operating data. The paper describes the project SunRise Smart City and shows how GIS could be used for the management and visualization of the asset and operating data of a Smart City project.Save to LibraryDownloadby Isam Shahrour and +1Ahmad Afaneh•  8  BIM (Architecture), Building Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture), Smart Grid, BIM EducationNextLast »Related TopicsBIM Performance MeasurementFollowFollowingBIM/IPD SpecialistsFollowFollowingBIM (Architecture)FollowFollowingBIM-technologyFollowFollowingBuilding Information Modeling (BIM) (Architecture)FollowFollowingBIM FrameworkFollowFollowingRevitFollowFollowingBIM and Construction PlanningFollowFollowingBuilding Information ModelingFollowFollowingInteroperabilityFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023