Global Innovation Index 2021: Which are the most innovative countries?
On this page 
Which are the most innovative economies in 2021?
Tracking Innovation through the COVID-19 Crisis
About the Global Innovation Index
Previous editions of the Global Innovation Index
Global Innovation Index 2021
Tracking Innovation through the COVID-19 Crisis
The 2021 edition of the Global Innovation Index (GII) presents the latest global innovation ranking of 132 economies, relying on 81 different indicators. While tracking the most recent global innovation trends in the new Global Innovation Tracker, this edition also focuses on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on innovation.
The GII's overall formula for measuring an economy's innovative capacity and output provides clarity for decision makers in government, business and elsewhere as they look forward to creating policies that enable their people to invent and create more efficiently.
Download the Global Innovation Index 2021 | Download related documents
The GII Launch Event
Monday September 20, 2021
Watch the launch speeches held by the President of Colombia, the Prime Minister of Cabo Verde, the Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand, as well as by Ministers of China, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates.
Watch the event | Press release | Program | Event photos
Videos are available in English, Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish.
Which are the most innovative economies in 2021?
The world’s most-innovative economy in 2021 is Switzerland followed by Sweden, the United States of America (U.S.), the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Republic of Korea, according to the GII 2021 rankings.
How does your location rank in terms of innovation?
Select an economy
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Cabo Verde
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lebanon
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Malta
Mauritius
Mexico
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Niger
Nigeria
North Macedonia
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
Togo
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United Republic of Tanzania
United States of America
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Find out more about the GII 2021 rankings
Ranking of the 10 most innovative economies in 2021
Close
Watch video video
 
Close
Tracking Innovation through the COVID-19 Crisis
In spite of the human and economic toll of the COVID-19 pandemic, governments and enterprises in many parts of the world have increased their investments in innovation. Scientific output, expenditures in research and development (R&D), intellectual property filings and venture capital (VC) deals continued to grow in 2021, building on strong pre-crisis peak performance.
The Global Innovation Tracker is a new feature of the Global Innovation Index 2021 that captures key innovation trends. It uses a set of indicators identified in the three stages of the innovation journey:
"As the world looks to rebuild from the pandemic, we know that innovation is integral to overcoming the common challenges that we face and to constructing a better future. The Global Innovation Index is a unique tool to guide policy-makers and businesses in charting plans to ensure that we emerge stronger from the pandemic."
Daren Tang Director General,World Intellectual Property Organization
 
Science and innovations investments
Close
 
Technological progress
Close
 
Socioeconomic impact
Close
Find out more about the Global Innovation Tracker
About the Global Innovation Index
Since its inception in 2007, the GII has shaped the innovation measurement agenda and become a cornerstone of economic policymaking, with an increasing number of governments systematically analyzing their annual GII results and designing policy responses to improve their performance.
Published anually, the core of the GII provides performance measures and ranks 132 economies on their innovation ecosystems. The Index is built on a rich dataset – the collection of 81 indicators from international public and private sources – going beyond the traditional measures of innovation since the definition of innovation has broadened.
Join the conversation: #GlobalInnovationIndex
What is the Global Innovation Index?
 
Close
Video: The Global Innovation Index (GII) takes the pulse of the most recent global innovation trends.
Download our app (iOS, Android)
Read our blog
Download materials from our social media kit
Download the flyer
YouTube playlist
Previous editions of the Global Innovation IndexAll editions
2020 – Who Will Finance Innovation?
The GII 2020 shed light on the state of innovation financing by investigating the evolution of existing mechanisms and pointing to progress and remaining challenges.
2019 – The Future of Medical Innovation
The GII 2019 analyzed the medical innovation landscape of the next decade, looking at how technological and non-technological medical innovation will transform the delivery of healthcare worldwide.
2018 – Energizing the World with Innovation
The GII 2018 analysed the energy innovation landscape of the next decade and identifies possible breakthroughs in fields such as energy production, storage, distribution, and consumption.
2017 – Innovation Feeding the World
The GII 2017 reviewed the state of innovation in agriculture and food systems across sectors and geographies.
https://www3.wipo.int/contact/en/area.jsp?area=gii
https://www.wipo.int/pressroom/en/
https://www.wipo.int/tools/en/disclaim.html
https://www.wipo.int/tools/en/privacy_policy.html
https://www.wipo.int/accessibility/en/
https://www.wipo.int/tools/en/sitemap.html
https://www3.wipo.int/newsletters/en/
https://www.wipo.int/podcasts/en/
https://www.wipo.int/news/en/