Norwegian language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1Origins
1.2The Roman alphabet
1.3Low German influence
1.4Dano-Norwegian
1.5Danish to Norwegian
2Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
2.1Consonants
2.2Vowels
2.3Accent
3Written language
Toggle Written language subsection
3.1Alphabet
3.2Bokmål and Nynorsk
3.3Riksmål
3.4Høgnorsk
3.5Current usage
4Dialects
5Examples
6Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
6.1Nouns
6.1.1Genitive of nouns
6.2Adjectives
6.2.1Attributive adjectives
6.2.1.1Definite inflection
6.2.1.2Indefinite inflection
6.2.2Predicative adjectives
6.3Verbs
6.3.1Ergative verbs
6.4Pronouns
6.4.1Ordering of possessive pronouns
6.5Determiners
6.6Numerals
6.7Particle classes
6.7.1Adverbs
6.8Compound words
6.9Syntax
6.9.1Word order
6.9.1.1Negation
6.9.1.2Adverbs
6.9.1.3Adjectives
7See also
8References
9General bibliography
10External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Norwegian language
158 languages
АдыгэбзэAfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛAnarâškielâअंगिकाÆngliscАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBasa BaliবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegБуряадCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskالدارجةDavvisámegiellaDeutschEestiΕλληνικάЭрзяньEspañolEsperantoEuskaraEʋegbeفارسیFiji HindiFøroysktFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalegoગુજરાતી客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaKapampanganКъарачай-малкъарქართულიҚазақшаKernowekKiswahiliКомиKotavaKurdîКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLivvinkarjalaLombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayuꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄МокшеньNederlandsNedersaksiesनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀPapiamentuپښتوTok PisinPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRumantschRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийGagana SamoaSarduScotsSeelterskShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükWalonWinaray吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語ZazakiZeêuwsŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
North Germanic language spoken in Norway
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Norwegian language" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
NorwegiannorskPronunciation[ˈnɔʂːk] (East, Central and North) [ˈnɔʁsk] (West and South)Native toNorwayEthnicityNorwegiansNative speakers4.32 million (2020)[1]Language familyIndo-European
GermanicNorthwest Germanic[2]North GermanicWest Scandinavian (disputed)NorwegianEarly formsOld Norse
Old West Norse
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Standard forms
written Bokmål (official)
 •  written Riksmål (unofficial)
written Nynorsk (official)
 •  written Høgnorsk (unofficial)
Writing systemLatin (Norwegian alphabet)Norwegian BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language inNorwayRegulated byLanguage Council of Norway (Bokmål and Nynorsk)Norwegian Academy (Riksmål)Ivar Aasen-sambandet (Høgnorsk)Language codesISO 639-1noISO 639-2norISO 639-3nor – inclusive codeIndividual codes:nob – Bokmålnno – NynorskGlottolognorw1258Linguasphere52-AAA-ba to -be;52-AAA-cf to -cgAreas where Norwegian is spoken, including North Dakota (where 0.4% of the population speaks Norwegian), western Wisconsin (<0.1% of the population), and Minnesota (0.1% of the population) (Data: U.S. Census 2000).This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Norwegian (Norwegian: norsk [ˈnɔʂːk] (listeni)) is a North Germanic language spoken mainly in Norway, where it is an official language. Along with Swedish and Danish, Norwegian forms a dialect continuum of more or less mutually intelligible local and regional varieties; some Norwegian and Swedish dialects, in particular, are very close. These Scandinavian languages, together with Faroese and Icelandic as well as some extinct languages, constitute the North Germanic languages. Faroese and Icelandic are not mutually intelligible with Norwegian in their spoken form because continental Scandinavian has diverged from them. While the two Germanic languages with the greatest numbers of speakers, English and German, have close similarities with Norwegian, neither is mutually intelligible with it. Norwegian is a descendant of Old Norse, the common language of the Germanic peoples living in Scandinavia during the Viking Age.
Today there are two official forms of written Norwegian, Bokmål (Riksmål) and Nynorsk (Landsmål), each with its own variants. Bokmål developed from the Dano-Norwegian language that replaced Middle Norwegian as the elite language after the union of Denmark–Norway in the 16th and 17th centuries and then evolved in Norway, while Nynorsk was developed based upon a collective of spoken Norwegian dialects. Norwegian is one of the two official languages in Norway, along with Sámi, a Finno-Ugric language spoken by less than one percent of the population. Norwegian is one of the working languages of the Nordic Council. Under the Nordic Language Convention, citizens of the Nordic countries who speak Norwegian have the opportunity to use it when interacting with official bodies in other Nordic countries without being liable for any interpretation or translation costs.[3][4]
History[edit]
Origins[edit]
The approximate extent of Old Norse and related languages in the early 10th century:   Old West Norse dialect   Old East Norse dialect   Old Gutnish dialect   Old English   Crimean Gothic   Other Germanic languages with which Old Norse still retained some mutual intelligibility
Like most of the languages in Europe, the Norwegian language descends from the Proto-Indo-European language. As early Indo-Europeans spread across Europe, they became isolated and new languages were developed. In the northwest of Europe, the West Germanic languages evolved, which would eventually become English, Dutch, German, and the North Germanic languages, of which Norwegian is one.
Proto-Norse is thought to have evolved as a northern dialect of Proto-Germanic during the first centuries AD in what is today Southern Sweden. It is the earliest stage of a characteristically North Germanic language, and the language attested in the Elder Futhark inscriptions, the oldest form of the runic alphabets. A number of inscriptions are memorials to the dead, while others are magical in content. The oldest are carved on loose objects, while later ones are chiseled in runestones.[5] They are the oldest written record of any Germanic language.
Around 800 AD, the script was simplified to the Younger Futhark, and inscriptions became more abundant. At the same time, the beginning of the Viking Age led to the spread of Old Norse to Iceland, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Viking colonies also existed in parts of the British Isles, France (Normandy), North America, and Kievan Rus. In all of these places except Iceland and the Faroes, Old Norse speakers went extinct or were absorbed into the local population.[5]
The Roman alphabet[edit]
Around 1030, Christianity came to Scandinavia, bringing with it an influx of Latin borrowings and the Roman alphabet. These new words were related to church practices and ceremonies, although many other loanwords related to general culture also entered the language.
The Scandinavian languages at this time are not considered to be separate languages, although there were minor differences among what are customarily called Old Icelandic, Old Norwegian, Old Gutnish, Old Danish, and Old Swedish.
Low German influence[edit]
The economic and political dominance of the Hanseatic League between 1250 and 1450 in the main Scandinavian cities brought large Middle Low German–speaking populations to Norway. The influence of their language on Scandinavian is similar to that of French on English after the Norman conquest.[5]
Dano-Norwegian[edit]
In the late Middle Ages, dialects began to develop in Scandinavia because the population was rural and little travel occurred. When the Reformation came from Germany, Martin Luther's High German translation of the Bible was quickly translated into Swedish, Danish, and Icelandic. Norway entered a union with Denmark in 1397 and Danish, over time, replaced Middle Norwegian as the language of the elite, the church, literature, and the law. When the union with Denmark ended in 1814, the Dano-Norwegian koiné had become the mother tongue of around 1% of the population.[6]
Danish to Norwegian[edit]
Main article: Norwegian language struggle
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
From the 1840s, some writers experimented with a Norwegianised Danish by incorporating words that were descriptive of Norwegian scenery and folk life, and adopting a more Norwegian syntax. Knud Knudsen proposed to change spelling and inflection in accordance with the Dano-Norwegian koiné, known as "cultivated everyday speech." A small adjustment in this direction was implemented in the first official reform of the Danish language in Norway in 1862 and more extensively after his death in two official reforms in 1907 and 1917.
Meanwhile, a nationalistic movement strove for the development of a new written Norwegian. Ivar Aasen, a botanist and self-taught linguist, began his work to create a new Norwegian language at the age of 22. He traveled around the country collecting words and examples of grammar from the dialects and comparing the dialects among the different regions. He examined the development of Icelandic, which had largely escaped the influences under which Norwegian had come. He called his work, which was published in several books from 1848 to 1873, Landsmål, meaning 'national language'. The name Landsmål is sometimes interpreted as 'rural language' or 'country language', but this was clearly not Aasen's intended meaning.
The name of the Danish language in Norway was a topic of hot dispute throughout the 19th century. Its proponents claimed that it was a language common to Norway and Denmark, and no more Danish than Norwegian. The proponents of Landsmål thought that the Danish character of the language should not be concealed. In 1899, Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson proposed the neutral name Riksmål, meaning 'national language' like Landsmål, and this was officially adopted along with the 1907 spelling reform. The name Riksmål is sometimes interpreted as 'state language', but this meaning is secondary at best. (Compare to Danish rigsmål from where the name was borrowed.)
After the personal union with Sweden was dissolved in 1905, both languages were developed further and reached what is now considered their classic forms after a reform in 1917. Riksmål was, in 1929, officially renamed Bokmål (literally 'book language'), and Landsmål to Nynorsk (literally 'new Norwegian'). A proposition to substitute Danish-Norwegian (dansk-norsk) for Bokmål lost in parliament by a single vote.[citation needed] The name Nynorsk, the linguistic term for modern Norwegian, was chosen to contrast with Danish and emphasis on the historical connection to Old Norwegian. Today, this meaning is often lost, and it is commonly mistaken as a "new" Norwegian in contrast to the "real" Norwegian Bokmål.
Bokmål and Nynorsk were made closer by a reform in 1938. This was a result of a state policy to merge Nynorsk and Bokmål into a single language, to be called Samnorsk. A 1946 poll showed that this policy was supported by 79% of Norwegians at the time. However, opponents of the official policy still managed to create a massive protest movement against Samnorsk in the 1950s, fighting in particular the use of "radical" forms in Bokmål text books in schools. In the reform in 1959, the 1938 reform was partially reversed in Bokmål, but Nynorsk was changed further towards Bokmål. Since then Bokmål has reverted even further toward traditional Riksmål, while Nynorsk still adheres to the 1959 standard. Therefore, a small minority of Nynorsk enthusiasts use a more conservative standard called Høgnorsk. The Samnorsk policy had little influence after 1960, and was officially abandoned in 2002.
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Norwegian phonology
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
While the sound systems of Norwegian and Swedish are similar, considerable variation exists among the dialects.
Consonants[edit]
Consonant phonemes of Urban East Norwegian
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Palato-alveolar
Retroflex
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
(ɳ)
ŋ
Stop
p b
t d
(ʈ ɖ)
k ɡ
Fricative
f
s
ʃ
(ʂ)
ç
h
Approximant
ʋ
l
(ɭ)
j
Tap
ɾ
ɽ
The retroflex consonants only appear in East Norwegian dialects as a result of sandhi, combining /ɾ/ with /d/, /l/, /n/, /s/, and /t/.
The realization of the rhotic /ɾ/ depends on the dialect. In Eastern, Central, and Northern Norwegian dialects, it is a tap [ɾ], whereas in Western and Southern Norway, and for some speakers also in Eastern Norway, it is uvular [χ] or [ʁ]. And in the dialects of North-Western Norway, it is realized as [r], much like the trilled ⟨rr⟩ of Spanish.
Vowels[edit]
Vowel phonemes of Urban East Norwegian
Orthography
IPA
Description
a
/ɑ(ː)/
Open back unrounded
ai
/ɑɪ̯/
au
/æʉ̯/
e (short)
/ɛ/, /æ/
open mid front unrounded
e (long)
/eː/, /æː/
close mid front unrounded
e (weak)
/ə/
schwa (mid central unrounded)
ei
/æɪ̯/, /ɛɪ̯/
i (short)
/ɪ/
close front unrounded
i (long)
/iː/
close front unrounded
o (short)
/ɔ, ʊ/
close back rounded
o (long)
/uː, oː/
close back rounded
oi
/ɔʏ̯/
u
/ʉ(ː)/
close central rounded (close front extra rounded)
y (short)
/ʏ/
close front rounded (close front less rounded)
y (long)
/yː/
close front rounded (close front less rounded)
æ (short)
/æ/, /ɛ/
near open front unrounded, open mid front unrounded
æ (long)
/æː/, /eː/
near open front unrounded, close mid front unrounded
ø (short)
/œ/
close mid front rounded
ø (long)
/øː/
close mid front rounded
øy
/œʏ̯/
å (short)
/ɔ/
open-mid back rounded
å (long)
/oː/
open-mid back rounded
Accent[edit]
Norwegian is a pitch-accent language with two distinct pitch patterns, like Swedish. They are used to differentiate two-syllable words with otherwise identical pronunciation. For example, in many East Norwegian dialects, the word bønder ('farmers') is pronounced using the simpler tone 1, while bønner ('beans' or 'prayers') uses the more complex tone 2. Though spelling differences occasionally differentiate written words, in most cases the minimal pairs are written alike, since written Norwegian has no explicit accent marks. In most eastern low-tone dialects, accent 1 uses a low flat pitch in the first syllable, while accent 2 uses a high, sharply falling pitch in the first syllable and a low pitch in the beginning of the second syllable. In both accents, these pitch movements are followed by a rise of intonational nature (phrase accent)—the size (and presence) of which signals emphasis or focus, and corresponds in function to the normal accent in languages that lack lexical tone, such as English. That rise culminates in the final syllable of an accentual phrase, while the utterance-final fall common in most languages is either very small or absent.
There are significant variations in pitch accent between dialects. Thus, in most of western and northern Norway (the so-called high-pitch dialects) accent 1 is falling, while accent 2 is rising in the first syllable and falling in the second syllable or somewhere around the syllable boundary. The pitch accents (as well as the peculiar phrase accent in the low-tone dialects) give the Norwegian language a "singing" quality that makes it easy to distinguish from other languages. Accent 1 generally occurs in words that were monosyllabic in Old Norse, and accent 2 in words that were polysyllabic.
Written language[edit]
Norwegian keyboard with keys for Æ, Ø, and Å.
Main article: Norwegian orthography
Alphabet[edit]
Main article: Dano-Norwegian alphabet
The Norwegian alphabet has 29 letters.[7]
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Æ
Ø
Å
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
m
n
o
p
q
r
s
t
u
v
w
x
y
z
æ
ø
å
The letters c, q, w, x and z are only used in loanwords. As loanwords are assimilated into Norwegian, their spelling might change to reflect Norwegian pronunciation and the principles of Norwegian orthography, e.g. zebra in Norwegian is written sebra. Due to historical reasons, some otherwise Norwegian family names are also written using these letters.
Some letters may be modified by diacritics: é, è, ê, ó, ò, and ô.[citation needed] In Nynorsk, ì and ù and ỳ are occasionally seen as well.[citation needed] The diacritics are not compulsory, but may in a few cases distinguish between different meanings of the word, e.g.: for ('for/to'), fór ('went'), fòr ('furrow') and fôr ('fodder').[citation needed] Loanwords may be spelled with other diacritics, most notably ü, á and à.[citation needed]
Bokmål and Nynorsk[edit]
Main articles: Bokmål, Nynorsk, and Norwegian language conflict
Map of the official language forms of Norwegian municipalities: red is Bokmål, blue is Nynorsk, and gray depicts neutral areas.
As established by law and government policy, the two official forms of written Norwegian are Bokmål (literally 'book tongue') and Nynorsk ('new Norwegian'). The official Norwegian Language Council (Språkrådet) is responsible for regulating the two forms, and recommends the terms Norwegian Bokmål and Norwegian Nynorsk in English.[citation needed] Two other written forms without official status also exist. One, called Riksmål ('national language'), is today to a large extent the same language as Bokmål though somewhat closer to the Danish language. It is regulated by the unofficial Norwegian Academy, which translates the name as 'Standard Norwegian'. The other is Høgnorsk ('High Norwegian'), a more purist form of Nynorsk, which maintains the language in an original form as given by Ivar Aasen and rejects most of the reforms from the 20th century; this form has limited use.
Nynorsk and Bokmål provide standards for how to write Norwegian, but not for how to speak the language. No standard of spoken Norwegian is officially sanctioned, and most Norwegians speak their own dialects in all circumstances. Thus, unlike in many other countries, the use of any Norwegian dialect, whether it coincides with the written norms or not, is accepted as correct spoken Norwegian. However, in areas where East Norwegian dialects are used, a tendency exists to accept a de facto spoken standard for this particular regional dialect, Urban East Norwegian or Standard East Norwegian (Norwegian: Standard østnorsk), in which the vocabulary coincides with Bokmål.[8][9] Outside Eastern Norway, this spoken variation is not used.
From the 16th to the 19th centuries, Danish was the standard written language of Norway. As a result, the development of modern written Norwegian has been subject to strong controversy related to nationalism, rural versus urban discourse, and Norway's literary history. Historically, Bokmål is a Norwegianised variety of Danish, while Nynorsk is a language form based on Norwegian dialects and puristic opposition to Danish. The now-abandoned official policy to merge Bokmål and Nynorsk into one common language called Samnorsk through a series of spelling reforms has created a wide spectrum of varieties of both Bokmål and Nynorsk. The unofficial form known as Riksmål is considered more conservative than Bokmål and is far closer to Danish while the unofficial Høgnorsk is more conservative than Nynorsk and is far closer to Faroese, Icelandic and Old Norse.
Norwegians are educated in both Bokmål and Nynorsk. Each student gets assigned a native form based on which school they go to, whence the other form (known as Sidemål) will be a mandatory school subject from elementary school through high school.[10] For instance, a Norwegian whose main language form is Bokmål will study Nynorsk as a mandatory subject throughout both elementary and high school. A 2005 poll indicates that 86.3% use primarily Bokmål as their daily written language, 5.5% use both Bokmål and Nynorsk, and 7.5% use primarily Nynorsk.[citation needed] Thus, 13% are frequently writing Nynorsk, though the majority speak dialects that resemble Nynorsk more closely than Bokmål.[11] Broadly speaking, Nynorsk writing is widespread in western Norway, though not in major urban areas, and also in the upper parts of mountain valleys in the southern and eastern parts of Norway. Examples are Setesdal, the western part of Telemark county (fylke) and several municipalities in Hallingdal, Valdres, and Gudbrandsdalen. It is little used elsewhere, but 30–40 years ago,[as of?] it also had strongholds in many rural parts of Trøndelag (mid-Norway) and the southern part of northern Norway (Nordland county). Today, Nynorsk is the official language of not only four of the nineteen Norwegian counties but also various municipalities in five other counties. NRK, the Norwegian broadcasting corporation, broadcasts in both Bokmål and Nynorsk, and all governmental agencies are required to support both written languages. Bokmål is used in 92% of all written publications, and Nynorsk in 8% (2000).[citation needed]
Like some other European countries, Norway has an official "advisory board"— Språkrådet (Norwegian Language Council)— that determines, after approval from the Ministry of Culture, official spelling, grammar, and vocabulary for the Norwegian language. The board's work has been subject to considerable controversy throughout the years.
Both Nynorsk and Bokmål have a great variety of optional forms. The Bokmål that uses the forms that are close to Riksmål is called moderate or conservative, depending on one's viewpoint, while the Bokmål that uses the forms that are close to Nynorsk is called radical. Nynorsk has forms that are close to the original Landsmål and forms that are close to Bokmål.
Riksmål[edit]
Main article: Riksmål
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Opponents of the spelling reforms aimed at bringing Bokmål closer to Nynorsk have retained the name Riksmål and employ spelling and grammar that predate the Samnorsk movement. Riksmål and conservative versions of Bokmål have been the de facto standard written language of Norway for most of the 20th century, being used by large newspapers, encyclopedias, and a significant proportion of the population of the capital Oslo, surrounding areas, and other urban areas, as well as much of the literary tradition. Since the reforms of 1981 and 2003 (effective in 2005), the official Bokmål can be adapted to be almost identical with modern Riksmål. The differences between written Riksmål and Bokmål are comparable to American and British English differences.
Riksmål is regulated by the Norwegian Academy, which determines acceptable spelling, grammar, and vocabulary.
Høgnorsk[edit]
Main article: Høgnorsk
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
There is also an unofficial form of Nynorsk, called Høgnorsk, discarding the post-1917 reforms, and thus close to Ivar Aasen's original Landsmål. It is supported by Ivar Aasen-sambandet, but has found no widespread use.
Current usage[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
In 2010, 86.5% of the pupils in the primary and lower secondary schools in Norway receive education in Bokmål, while 13.0% receive education in Nynorsk. From the eighth grade onwards, pupils are required to learn both. Out of the 431 municipalities in Norway, 161 have declared that they wish to communicate with the central authorities in Bokmål, 116 (representing 12% of the population) in Nynorsk, while 156 are neutral. Of 4,549 state publications in 2000, 8% were in Nynorsk, and 92% in Bokmål. The large national newspapers (Aftenposten, Dagbladet, and VG) are published in Bokmål or Riksmål. Some major regional newspapers (including Bergens Tidende and Stavanger Aftenblad), many political journals, and many local newspapers use both Bokmål and Nynorsk.
A newer trend is to write in dialect for informal use. When writing an SMS, Facebook update, or fridge note, most younger people write the way they talk rather than using Bokmål or Nynorsk.[12][13]
Dialects[edit]
Main article: Norwegian dialects
The map shows the division of the Norwegian dialects within the main groups.
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
There is general agreement that a wide range of differences makes it difficult to estimate the number of different Norwegian dialects. Variations in grammar, syntax, vocabulary, and pronunciation cut across geographical boundaries and can create a distinct dialect at the level of farm clusters. Dialects are in some cases so dissimilar as to be unintelligible to unfamiliar listeners. Many linguists note a trend toward regionalization of dialects that diminishes the differences at such local levels;[14] there is, however, a renewed interest in preserving dialects.
Examples[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Below are a few sentences giving an indication of the differences between Bokmål and Nynorsk, compared to the conservative (closer to Danish) form Riksmål, Danish, as well as Old Norse, Swedish, Faroese, Icelandic (the living language grammatically closest to Old Norse), Old English and some modern West Germanic languages:
Language
Phrase
Modern English
I come from Norway
What is his name?
This is a horse
The rainbow has many colors
Danish
Jeg kommer fra Norge
Hvad hedder han?
Dette er en hest
Regnbuen har mange farver
Norwegian Riksmål
Hva heter han?
Norwegian Bokmål
Regnbuen har mange farger
Norwegian Nynorsk
Eg kjem frå Noreg
Kva heiter han?
Dette er ein hest
Regnbogen har mange fargar/leter = Regnbogen er mangleta
Norwegian Høgnorsk
Detta er ein hest
Regnbogen hev mange leter = Regnbogen er manglìta
Swedish
Jag kommer från Norge
Vad heter han?
Detta är en häst
Regnbågen har många färger
Old Norse
Ek kem frá Noregi
Hvat heitir hann?
Þetta er hross /Þessi er hestr
Regnboginn er marglitr
Icelandic
Ég kem frá Noregi
Hvað heitir hann?
Þetta er hestur/hross
Regnboginn er marglitur
Faroese
Eg komi úr Noregi/Norra
Hvussu eitur hann?
Hetta er eitt ross / ein hestur
Ælabogin hevur nógvar litir /Ælabogin er marglittur
Old English
Ic cume fram Norwegan
Hwæt hǣtt hē?
Þis is hors
Regnboga hæfð manige hīw
German
Ich komme aus Norwegen
Wie heißt er?
Das ist ein Pferd
Der Regenbogen hat viele Farben
Dutch
Ik kom uit Noorwegen
Hoe heet hij?
Dit is een paard
De regenboog heeft veel (vele) kleuren
Afrikaans
Ek kom van Noorweë (af)
Wat is sy naam?Hoe heet hy? (more archaic and formal)
Dit is 'n perd
Die reënboog het baie kleure
Low Saxon
Ik kom üüt Noorwegen
Ho hit e?
Dit is een peerd
De regenboge hev völe klören
Grammar[edit]
Nouns[edit]
See also: Nynorsk § Nouns
Norwegian nouns are inflected for number (singular/plural) and for definiteness (indefinite/definite). In a few dialects, definite nouns are also inflected for the dative case.
Norwegian nouns belong to three noun classes (genders): masculine, feminine and neuter. All feminine nouns can optionally be inflected using masculine noun class morphology in Bokmål due to its Danish heritage.[15] In comparison, the use of all three genders (including the feminine) is mandatory in Nynorsk.[16]
All Norwegian dialects have traditionally retained all the three grammatical genders from Old Norse to some extent.[17] The only exceptions are the dialect of Bergen and a few upper class sociolects at the west end of Oslo that have completely lost the feminine gender.[17][18]
According to Marit Westergaard, approximately 80% of nouns in Norwegian are masculine.[19]
Examples, nouns in Bokmål
Singular
Plural
Indefinite
Definite
Indefinite
Definite
masculine
en båt
båten
båter
båtene
a boat
the boat
boats
the boats
feminine
ei/en vogn
vogna/vognen
vogner
vognene
a wagon
the wagon
wagons
the wagons
neuter
et hus
huset
hus
husa/husene
a house
the house
houses
the houses
Norwegian and other Scandinavian languages use a suffix to indicate definiteness of a noun, unlike English which has a separate article, the, to indicate the same.
In general, almost all nouns in Bokmål follow these patterns[20] (like the words in the examples above):
Nouns in Bokmål
Singular
Plural
Indefinite
Definite
Indefinite
Definite
masculine
en
-en
-er
-ene
feminine
ei/en
-a/-en
neuter
et
-et
-/-er
-a/-ene
In contrast, almost all nouns in Nynorsk follow these patterns[16] (the noun gender system is more pronounced than in Bokmål):
Nouns in Nynorsk
Singular
Plural
Indefinite
Definite
Indefinite
Definite
masculine
ein
-en
-ar
-ane
feminine
ei
-a
-er
-ene
neuter
eit
-et
–
-a
Examples, nouns in Nynorsk
Singular
Plural
Indefinite
Definite
Indefinite
Definite
masculine
ein båt
båten
båtar
båtane
a boat
the boat
boats
the boats
feminine
ei vogn
vogna
vogner
vognene
a wagon
the wagon
wagons
the wagons
neuter
eit hus
huset
hus
husa
a house
the house
houses
the houses
There is in general no way to infer what grammatical gender a specific noun has, but there are some patterns of nouns where the gender can be inferred. For instance, all nouns ending in -nad will be masculine in both Bokmål and Nynorsk (for instance the noun jobbsøknad, which means 'job application'). Most nouns ending in -ing will be feminine, like the noun forventning ('expectation').
There are some common irregular nouns, many of which are irregular in both Bokmål and Nynorsk, like the following:
Irregular noun, fot (foot)[21]
Singular
Plural
Indefinite
Definite
Indefinite
Definite
Bokmål:
en fot
foten
føtter
føttene
Nynorsk:
ein fot
foten
føter
føtene
English:
a foot
the foot
feet
the feet
In Nynorsk, even though the irregular word fot is masculine, it is inflected like a feminine word in the plural. Another word with the same irregular inflection is son – søner ('son – sons').
In Nynorsk, nouns ending in -ing typically have masculine plural inflections, like the word dronning in the following table. But they are treated as feminine nouns in every other way.[16]
Nynorsk, some irregular nouns
Gender
Nouns ending with -ing
English
feminine
ei dronning
dronninga
dronningar
dronningane
queen
Plurals with umlaut (these irregularities also exist in Bokmål)
feminine
ei bok
boka
bøker
bøkene
book
ei hand
handa
hender
hendene
hand
ei stong
stonga
stenger
stengene
rod
ei tå
tåa
tær
tærne
toe
Plurals with no ending (these irregularities also exist in Bokmål)
masculine
ein ting
tingen
ting
tinga
thing
Genitive of nouns[edit]
In general, the genitive case has died out in modern Norwegian and there are only some remnants of it in certain expressions: til fjells ('to the mountains'), til sjøs ('to the sea'). To show ownership, there is an enclitic -s similar to English -'s; Sondres flotte bil ('Sondre's nice car', Sondre being a personal name). There are also reflexive possessive pronouns, sin, si, sitt, sine; Det er Sondre sitt ('It is Sondre's'). In both Bokmål and modern Nynorsk, there is often a mix of both of these to mark possession, though it is more common in Nynorsk to use the reflexive pronouns; in Nynorsk use of the reflexive possessive pronouns is generally encouraged to avoid mixing the enclitic -s with the historical grammatical case remnants of the language. The reflexive pronouns agree in gender and number with the noun.
The enclitic -s in Norwegian evolved as a shorthand expression for the possessive pronouns sin, si, sitt and sine.[citation needed]
Examples
Norwegian (with pronoun)
Norwegian (with enclitic 's)
English
Jenta sin bil
Jentas bil
The girl's car
Mannen si kone
Mannens kone
The man's wife
Gutten sitt leketøy
Guttens leketøy
The boy's toy
Kona sine barn
Konas barn
The wife's children
Det er statsministeren sitt
Det er statsministerens
It is the prime minister's
Adjectives[edit]
See also: Nynorsk § Adjectives
Norwegian adjectives, like those of Swedish and Danish, inflect for definiteness, gender, number and for comparison (affirmative/comparative/superlative). Inflection for definiteness follows two paradigms, called "weak" and "strong", a feature shared among the Germanic languages.
The following table summarizes the inflection of adjectives in Norwegian. The indefinite affirmative inflection can vary between adjectives, but in general the paradigm illustrated below is the most common.[22]
Inflection patterns for adjectives in Norwegian
Affirmative
Comparative
Superlative
Indefinite
Definite
Common
Neuter
Plural
Indefinite
Definite
Bokmål
-
-t
-e
-ere
-est
-este
Nynorsk
-are
-ast
-aste
Predicate adjectives follow only the indefinite inflection table. Unlike attributive adjectives, they are not inflected for definiteness. 
Adjective forms, examples:  grønn/grøn ('green'), pen ('pretty'), stjålet/stolen ('stolen')
Affirmative
Comparative
Superlative
Indefinite
Definite
Common
Neuter
Plural
Indefinite
Definite
Bokmål
grønn
grønt
grønne
grønnere
grønnest
grønneste
Nynorsk
grøn
grøne
grønare
grønast
grønaste
Bokmål
pen
pent
pene
penere
penest
peneste
Nynorsk
penare
penast
penaste
Bokmål
stjålet/stjålen
stjålet
stjålne
Nynorsk
stolen
stole
stolne
–
–
English
green
greener
greenest
pretty
prettier
prettiest
stolen
–
–
In most dialects, some verb participles used as adjectives have a separate form in both definite and plural uses,[23] and sometimes also in the masculine-feminine singular. In some Southwestern dialects, the definite adjective is also declined in gender and number with one form for feminine and plural, and one form for masculine and neuter.
Attributive adjectives[edit]
Definite inflection[edit]
In Norwegian, a definite noun has a suffixed definite article (cf. above) compared to English which in general uses the separate word the to indicate the same. However, when a definite noun is preceded by an adjective, the adjective also gets a definite inflection, shown in the inflection table above. There is also another definite marker, den, that has to agree in gender with the noun when the definite noun is accompanied by an adjective.[24] It comes before the adjective and has the following forms
Determinative den (Bokmål)
Masculine
Feminine
Neuter
Plural
Den
Den
Det
De
Examples of definite affirmative inflection of adjectives (Bokmål):
Den stjålne bilen ('The stolen car')
Den pene jenta ('The pretty girl')
Det grønne eplet ('The green apple')
De stjålne bilene ('The stolen cars')
If the adjective is dropped completely, the meaning of the preceding article before the noun changes, as shown in this example.
Examples (Bokmål):
Den bilen ('That car')
Den jenta ('That girl')
Det eplet ('That apple')
De bilene ('Those cars')
Examples of definite comparative and superlative inflection of adjectives (Bokmål):
Det grønnere eplet ('The greener apple')
Det grønneste eplet ('The greenest apple')
Definiteness is also signaled by using possessive pronouns or any uses of a noun in its genitive form in either Nynorsk or Bokmål: mitt grønne hus ('my green house'), min grønne bil ('my green car'), mitt tilbaketrukne tannkjøtt ('my receding gums'), presidentens gamle hus ('the president's old house').[25]
Indefinite inflection[edit]
Examples (Bokmål):
En grønn bil ('A green car')
Ei pen jente ('A pretty girl')
Et grønt eple ('A green apple')
Flere grønne biler ('Many green cars')
Examples of comparative and superlative inflections in Bokmål: en grønnere bil ('a greener car'), grønnest bil ('greenest car').
Predicative adjectives[edit]
There is also predicative agreement of adjectives in all dialects of Norwegian and in the written languages, unlike related languages like German and Dutch.[26] This feature of predicative agreement is shared among the Scandinavian languages. Predicative adjectives do not inflect for definiteness unlike the attributive adjectives.
This means that nouns will have to agree with the adjective when there is a copula verb involved, like in Bokmål: være ('to be'), bli ('become'), ser ut ('looks like'), kjennes ('feels like') etc. 
Adjective agreement, examples
Norwegian (bokmål)
English
Masculine
Bilen var grønn
The car was green
Feminine
Døra er grønn
The door is green
Neuter
Flagget er grønt
The flag is green
Plural
Blåbærene blir store
The blueberries will be big
Verbs[edit]
See also: Nynorsk § Verb conjugation
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (June 2019)
Norwegian verbs are not conjugated for person or number unlike English and most European languages, though a few Norwegian dialects do conjugate for number. Norwegian verbs are conjugated according to mainly three grammatical moods: indicative, imperative and subjunctive, though the subjunctive mood has largely fallen out of use and is mainly found in a few common frozen expressions.[27] The imperative is formed by removing the last vowel of the infinitive verb form, just like in the other Scandinavian languages.
Indicative verbs are conjugated for tense: present, past, and future. The present and past tense also have a passive form for the infinitive.
There are four non-finite verb forms: infinitive, passive infinitive, and the two participles: perfective/past participle and imperfective/present participle.
The participles are verbal adjectives. The imperfective participle is not declined, whereas the perfect participle is declined for gender (though not in Bokmål) and number like strong, affirmative adjectives. The definite form of the participle is identical to the plural form.
As with other Germanic languages, Norwegian verbs can be divided into two conjugation classes; weak verbs and strong verbs.
Verb forms in Nynorskleva ('to live') and finna ('to find')
Finite
Non-finite
Indicative
Subjunctive
Imperative
Verbal nouns
Verbal adjectives (Participles)
Present
Past
Infinitive
Imperfective
Perfective
Masculine
Feminine
Neuter
Plural/Def
Active
lever
levde
leve
lev
leva
levande
levd
levt
levde
finn
fann
finn
finna
(har) funne
funnen
funne
Passive
levest
levdest
levast
finst
fanst
finnast
(har) funnest
Verb forms in Bokmålå leve ('to live') and å finne ('to find')
Finite
Non-finite
Indicative
Subjunctive
Imperative
Verbal nouns
Verbal adjectives (Participles)
Present
Past
Infinitive
Imperfective
Perfective
Singular
Plural/Def
Active
lever
levde/levet
leve
lev
leve
levende
levd
levde/levet
finner
fant
finn
finne
(har) funnet
funnet
funne
Passive
leves
levdes
leves
fins/finnes
fantes
finnes
(har funnes)
Ergative verbs[edit]
See also: Nynorsk § Ergative verbs
There are ergative verbs in both Bokmål and Nynorsk,[28] where there are two different conjugation patterns depending on if the verb takes an object or not. In Bokmål, there are only two different conjugations for the preterite tense for the strong verbs, while Nynorsk has different conjugations for all tenses, like Swedish and a majority of Norwegian dialects. Some weak verbs are also ergative and are differentiated for all tenses in both Bokmål and Nynorsk, like ligge/legge, both of which meaning 'to lie down', but ligge does not take an object while legge requires an object. Legge corresponds to the English verb 'lay', while ligge corresponds to the English verb 'lie'. There are, however, many verbs that do not have a direct translation to English verbs.
Ergative verb knekke ('crack')
Norwegian Bokmål
English
Nøtta knakk
The nut cracked
Jeg knekte nøtta
I cracked the nut
Jeg ligger
I'm lying down
Jeg legger det ned
I'll lay it down
Pronouns[edit]
See also: Nynorsk § Personal pronouns
Norwegian personal pronouns are declined according to case: nominative and accusative. Like English, pronouns in Bokmål and Nynorsk are the only class that has case declension. Some of the dialects that have preserved the dative in nouns, also have a dative case instead of the accusative case in personal pronouns, while others have accusative in pronouns and dative in nouns, effectively giving these dialects three distinct cases.
In the most comprehensive Norwegian grammar, Norsk referansegrammatikk, the categorization of personal pronouns by person, gender, and number is not regarded as inflection. Pronouns are a closed class in Norwegian.
Since December 2017, the gender-neutral pronoun hen is present in the Norwegian Academy's dictionary (NAOB).[29] In June 2022, the Language Council of Norway (Språkrådet)[30][31] started including hen in both Bokmål and Nynorsk Norwegian standards.
Pronouns in Bokmål
Subject form
Object form
Possessive
jeg (I)
meg (me)
min, mi, mitt, mine (mine)
du (you)
deg (you)
din, di, ditt, dine (yours)
han (he)
hun (she)
hen (sing. they)
det, den (it/that)
ham/han (him)
henne (her)
hen (sing. them)
det, den (it/that)
hans (his)
hennes (hers)
hens (sing. theirs)
dets, dens (its)
vi (we)
oss (us)
vår, vårt, våre (our)
dere (you, plural)
deres (yours, plural)
de (they)
dem (them)
N/A
seg (oneself, themself/selves)
sin, si, sitt, sine (one's own, their own)
Pronouns in Nynorsk[30]
Subject form
Object form
Possessive
eg (I)
meg (me)
min, mi, mitt, mine (mine)
du (you)
deg (you)
din, di, ditt, dine (yours)
han (he/it)
ho (she/it)
hen (sing. they)
det (it/that)
han (him/it)
henne/ho (her/it)
hen (sing. them)
det (it/that)
hans (his)
hennar (hers)
hens (sing. theirs)
dets, dens (its)
vi/me (we)
oss (us)
vår, vårt, våre (our)
de/dokker (you, plural)
dykk/dokker (you, plural)
dykkar/dokkar (yours, plural)
dei (they)
deira (theirs)
N/A
seg (oneself, themself/selves)
sin, si, sitt, sine (one's own, their own)
The words for 'mine', 'yours' etc. are dependent on the gender of the noun described. Like adjectives, they have to agree in gender with the noun.
Bokmål has two sets of third-person pronouns. Han and hun refer to male and female individuals respectively; den and det refer to impersonal or inanimate nouns, of masculine/feminine or neutral gender respectively. In contrast, Nynorsk and most dialects use the same set of pronouns han ('he'), ho ('she') and det ('it') for both personal and impersonal references, like in German, Icelandic and Old Norse. Det also has expletive and cataphoric uses like in the English examples it rains and it was known by everyone (that) he had travelled the world.
Examples in Nynorsk and Bokmål of the use of the pronoun it
Nynorsk
Bokmål
English
Kor er boka mi? Ho er her
Hvor er boka mi? Den er her
Where is my book? It is here
Kor er bilen min? Han er her
Hvor er bilen min? Den er her
Where is my car? It is here
Kor er brevet mitt? Det er her
Hvor er brevet mitt? Det er her
Where is my letter? It is here
Ordering of possessive pronouns[edit]
The ordering of possessive pronouns is somewhat freer than in Swedish or Danish. When there is no adjective, the most common word order is the one used in the examples in the table above, where the possessive comes after the noun, while the noun is in its definite form; boka mi ('my book'). If one wishes to emphasize the owner of the noun, the possessive pronoun will usually be placed first. In Bokmål, however, due to its Danish origins, one could choose to always write the possessive first: min bil ('my car'), but this may sound very formal. Some dialects that have been very influenced by Danish also do this; some speakers in Bærum and the west of Oslo may always use this word order. When there is an adjective describing the noun, the possessive pronoun will always come first: min egen bil ('my own car').
Norwegian (Bokmål/Nynorsk)
English
Det er mi bok!
It is my book! (owner emphasized)
Kona mi er vakker
My wife is beautiful
Determiners[edit]
See also: Nynorsk § Determiners
The closed class of Norwegian determiners are declined in gender and number in agreement with their argument. Not all determiners are inflected.
Determiner formsegen (own) in Bokmål
Masculine
Feminine
Neuter
Plural
egen/eigen
egen/eiga
eget/eige
egne/eigne
Determiner formseigen (own) in Nynorsk
Masculine
Feminine
Neuter
Plural
eigen
eiga
eige
eigne
Numerals[edit]
Cardinal numbers from 0 to 12 in Nynorsk and Bokmål
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Bokmål
null
en, ei, ett
to
tre
fire
fem
seks
sju/syv
åtte
ni
ti
elleve
tolv
Nynorsk
ein, ei, eit
sju
Cardinal numbers from 13 to 19 in Nynorsk and Bokmål
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Bokmål
tretten
fjorten
femten
seksten
sytten
atten
nitten
Nynorsk
Particle classes[edit]
Norwegian has five closed classes without inflection, i.e. lexical categories with grammatical function and a finite number of members that may not be distinguished by morphological criteria. These are interjections, conjunctions, subjunctions, prepositions, and adverbs. The inclusion of adverbs here requires that traditional adverbs that are inflected in comparison be classified as adjectives, as is sometimes done.
Adverbs[edit]
Adverbs can be formed from adjectives in Norwegian. English usually creates adverbs from adjectives by the suffix -ly, like the adverb beautifully from the adjective beautiful. By comparison, Scandinavian languages usually form adverbs from adjectives by the grammatical neuter singular form of the adjective. This is in general true for both Bokmål and Nynorsk.
Example (Bokmål):
Han er grusom ('He is terrible')
Det er grusomt ('It is terrible')
Han er grusomt treig ('He is terribly slow')
In the third sentence, grusomt is an adverb. In the first and second sentence grusomt and grusom are adjectives and must agree in grammatical gender with the noun.
Another example is the adjective vakker ('beautiful') which exists in both Nynorsk and Bokmål and has the neuter singular form vakkert.
Example (Nynorsk):
Ho er vakker ('She is beautiful')
Det er vakkert ('It is beautiful')
Ho syng vakkert ('She sings beautifully')
Compound words[edit]
In Norwegian compound words, the head, i.e. the part determining the compound's class, is the last part. If the compound word is constructed from many different nouns, the last noun in the compound noun will determine the gender of the compound noun. Only the first part has primary stress. For instance, the compound tenketank ('think tank') has primary stress on the first syllable and is a masculine noun since the noun tank is masculine.
Compound words are written together in Norwegian, which can cause words to become very long, for example sannsynlighetsmaksimeringsestimator ('maximum likelihood estimator') and menneskerettighetsorganisasjoner ('human rights organizations'). Other examples are the title høyesterettsjustitiarius ('Chief Justice of the Supreme Court', originally a combination of supreme court and the actual title, justiciar) and the translation En midtsommernattsdrøm for A Midsummer Night's Dream.
If they are not written together, each part is naturally read with primary stress, and the meaning of the compound is lost. Examples of this in English are the difference between a green house and a greenhouse or a black board and a blackboard.
This is sometimes forgotten, occasionally with humorous results. Instead of writing, for example, lammekoteletter ('lamb chops'), people make the mistake of writing lamme koteletter ('lame', or 'paralyzed', 'chops'). The original message can even be reversed, as when røykfritt (lit. 'smoke-free', meaning no smoking) becomes røyk fritt ('smoke freely').
Other examples include:
Terrasse dør ('Terrace dies') instead of Terrassedør ('Terrace door')
Tunfisk biter ('Tuna bites', verb) instead of Tunfiskbiter ('Tuna bits', noun)
Smult ringer ('Lard calls', verb) instead of Smultringer ('Doughnuts')
Tyveri sikret ('Theft guaranteed') instead of Tyverisikret ('Theft-proof')
Stekt kylling lever ('Fried chicken lives', verb) instead of Stekt kyllinglever ('Fried chicken liver', noun)
Smør brød ('Butter bread', verb) instead of Smørbrød ('Sandwich')
Klipp fisk ('Cut fish', verb) instead of Klippfisk ('Clipfish')
På hytte taket ('On cottage the roof') instead of På hyttetaket ('On the cottage roof')
Altfor Norge ('Too Norway') instead of Alt for Norge ('Everything for Norway', the royal motto of Norway)
These misunderstandings occur because most nouns can be interpreted as verbs or other types of words.
Similar misunderstandings can be achieved in English too. The following are examples of phrases that both in Norwegian and English mean one thing as a compound word, and something different when regarded as separate words:
stavekontroll ('spellchecker') or stave kontroll ('spell checker')
kokebok ('cookbook') or koke bok ('cook book')
ekte håndlagde vafler ('real handmade waffles') or ekte hånd lagde vafler ('real hand made waffles')
Syntax[edit]
Word order[edit]
Norwegian syntax is predominantly SVO. The subject occupies the sentence-initial position, followed by the verb and then the object. Like many other Germanic languages, it follows the V2 rule, which means that the finite verb is invariably the second element in a sentence. For example:
•Jeg spiser fisk i dag ('I eat fish today')
•Jeg vil drikke kaffe i dag ('I want to drink coffee today')
Exceptions to the rule are embedded clauses and question phrases.
Negation[edit]
Negation in Norwegian is expressed by the word ikke, which literally means 'not' and is placed after the finite verb. Exceptions are embedded clauses.
•Hunden kom ikke tilbake med ballen. ('The dog did not return with the ball.')
•Det var hunden som ikke kom tilbake. ('It was the dog that did not return.')
Contractions with the negation, as is accepted in for example English (cannot, hadn't, didn't) are limited to dialects and colloquial speech. In this case contractions apply to the negation and the verb. Otherwise ikke is applied in similar ways as the English not and general negation.
Adverbs[edit]
Adverbs follow the verb they modify. Depending on the type of adverb, the order in which they appear in the phrase is pre-determined. Manner adverbs for example, precede temporal adverbs. Switching the order of these adverbs would not render the phrase ungrammatical, but would make it sound awkward. Compare this to the English phrase "John probably already ate dinner." Switching the adverbs' position (already and probably) to "John already probably ate dinner" is not incorrect, but sounds unnatural. For more information, see Cartographic syntax.
•Hun sang rørende vakkert. ('She sang touchingly beautiful.')
•Hun sang utrolig høyt. ('She sang unbelievably loud.')
The adverb may precede the verb when the focus of the sentence is shifted. If special attention should be directed on the temporal aspect of the sentence, the adverb can be fronted. Since the V2 rule requires the finite verb to syntactically occupy the second position in the clause, the verb consequently also moves in front of the subject.
•I dag vil jeg drikke kaffe ('Today, I want to drink coffee')
•I dag spiser jeg fisk (Today, I eat fish')
Only one adverb may precede the verb, unless it belongs to a bigger constituent, in which case it does not modify the main verb in the phrase, but is part of the constituent.
•Hun spiste suppen raskt i går ('She ate the soup quickly yesterday.')
•I går spiste hun suppen raskt ('Yesterday she ate the soup quickly.')
•Laget som spilte best, hadde forlatt plassen.
Adjectives[edit]
Attributive adjectives always precede the noun that they modify.
•De tre store tjukke tunge røde bøkene stod i hylla. ('The three big fat heavy red books stood on the shelf.')
•Den andre heldigvis lange tynne nøkkelen passet. ('The other fortunately long thin key fit'.)
See also[edit]
Norway portalLanguages portal
Det Norske Akademi for Sprog og Litteratur
Differences between the Norwegian and Danish languages
Noregs Mållag
Norsk Ordbok
Riksmålsforbundet
Russenorsk
Tone (linguistics)
References[edit]
^ De Smedt, Koenraad; Lyse, Gunn Inger; Gjesdal, Anje Müller; Losnegaard, Gyri S. (2012). The Norwegian Language in the Digital Age. White Paper Series. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg. p. 45. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-31389-9. ISBN 9783642313882. Norwegian is the common spoken and written language in Norway and is the native language of the vast majority of the Norwegian population (more than 90%) and has about 4,320,000 speakers at present.
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian (24 May 2022). "Older Runic". Glottolog. Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. Archived from the original on 13 November 2022. Retrieved 13 November 2022.
^ "Konvention mellan Sverige, Danmark, Finland, Island och Norge om nordiska medborgares rätt att använda sitt eget språk i annat nordiskt land" [Convention between Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway on the right of Nordic citizens to use their own language in another Nordic country]. Nordic Council (in Norwegian). 2 May 2007. Archived from the original on 20 February 2009. Retrieved 4 May 2008.
^ "20th anniversary of the Nordic Language Convention". Nordic Council. 22 February 2007. Archived from the original on 27 February 2007. Retrieved 25 April 2007.
^ a b c Faarlund, Jan Terje; Haugen, Einar (1917). "Scandinavian languages". Encyclopædia Britannica. 99 (2495): 505. Bibcode:1917Natur..99..505T. doi:10.1038/099505a0. S2CID 3988911. Archived from the original on 23 June 2016. Retrieved 11 September 2016.
^ Husby, Olaf (October 2010). "The Norwegian language". Norwegian on the Web. Archived from the original on 22 March 2019. Retrieved 11 September 2016.
^ Torp, Arne (2001). "Bokstaver og alfabet" [Letters and alphabet]. Språknytt (in Norwegian) (4): 1–4. Archived from the original on 30 June 2015. Retrieved 23 June 2018.
^ Vannebo, Kjell Ivar (2001). "Om begrepene språklig standard og språklig standardisering" [About the terms linguistic standard and linguistic standardization]. Sprog I Norden (in Norwegian): 119–128. Archived from the original on 15 October 2015. Retrieved 23 June 2018.
^ Kristoffersen, Gjert (2000). The Phonology of Norwegian. Oxford University Press. pp. 6–11. ISBN 978-0-19-823765-5.
^ "Læreplan i norsk (NOR1-05)". www.udir.no (in Norwegian Bokmål). Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 19 July 2018.
^ Venås, Kjell (1994). "Dialekt og normaltalemålet" [Dialect and normal speech]. Apollon (in Norwegian). 1. ISSN 0803-6926. Archived from the original on 24 July 2011.
^ Kornai, András (2013). "Digital Language Death". PLOS ONE. 8 (10): e77056. Bibcode:2013PLoSO...877056K. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0077056. PMC 3805564. PMID 24167559.
^ Dewey, Caitlin (2013). "How the Internet is killing the world's languages". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on 31 January 2021. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ Martin Skjekkeland. "dialekter i Norge". Store norske leksikon. Retrieved 1 February 2017.
^ "Grammatisk kjønn og variasjon i norsk". Språkrådet (in Norwegian). Archived from the original on 17 June 2019. Retrieved 17 June 2019.
^ a b c "Språkrådet". elevrom.sprakradet.no. Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 14 July 2018.
^ a b Skjekkeland, Martin (10 September 2018), "dialekter i Bergen", Store norske leksikon (in Norwegian), archived from the original on 15 May 2019, retrieved 17 June 2019
^ Hanssen, Eskil; Kjærheim, Harald; Skjekkeland, Martin (13 September 2016), "dialekter og språk i Oslo", Store norske leksikon (in Norwegian), archived from the original on 15 July 2018, retrieved 14 July 2018
^ Isaksen, Karoline Kvellestad (11 October 2019). "Do we really need grammatical gender?". Forskning.no. The Centre for Advanced Study. Archived from the original on 25 September 2022. Retrieved 25 September 2022.
^ "Bøying". www.ressurssidene.no (in Norwegian Bokmål). Retrieved 14 July 2018.[permanent dead link]
^ "Bokmålsordboka | Nynorskordboka". ordbok.uib.no. Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 14 July 2018.
^ "Språkrådet". elevrom.sprakradet.no. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018. Retrieved 17 July 2018.
^ Berulfsen, Bjarne (1977). Norwegian grammar (4th ed.). Oslo: Aschehoug. ISBN 978-8203043123. OCLC 4033534.
^ Fossen, Christian. "1 Repetisjon". www.ntnu.edu. Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 14 July 2018.
^ "Språkrådet". elevrom.sprakradet.no. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018. Retrieved 12 July 2018.
^ "Predikativ". ressurssidene.pedit.no (in Norwegian Bokmål). Archived from the original on 1 March 2023. Retrieved 14 July 2018.
^ "modus – grammatikk", Store norske leksikon (in Norwegian), 20 February 2018, archived from the original on 26 May 2019, retrieved 18 June 2019
^ "Språkrådet". elevrom.sprakradet.no. Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 14 July 2018.
^ "Det Norske Akademis ordbok". naob.no. Archived from the original on 16 October 2022. Retrieved 14 September 2022.
^ a b "Hen". Språkrådet (in Norwegian Bokmål). Archived from the original on 14 September 2022. Retrieved 14 September 2022.
^ "Ordbøkene.no – Bokmålsordboka og Nynorskordboka". ordbokene.no (in Norwegian). Archived from the original on 8 October 2022. Retrieved 14 September 2022.
General bibliography[edit]
Olav T. Beito, Nynorsk grammatikk. Lyd- og ordlære, Det Norske Samlaget, Oslo 1986, ISBN 82-521-2801-7
Rolf Theil Endresen, Hanne Gram Simonsen, Andreas Sveen, Innføring i lingvistikk (2002), ISBN 82-00-45273-5
Jan Terje Faarlund, Svein Lie, Kjell Ivar Vannebo, Norsk referansegrammatikk, Universitetsforlaget, Oslo 1997, 2002 (3rd edition), ISBN 82-00-22569-0 (Bokmål and Nynorsk)
Philip Holmes, Hans-Olav Enger, Norwegian: A Comprehensive Grammar, Routledge, Abingdon, 2018, ISBN 978-0-415-83136-9
The Norwegian Language Council (1994), Language usage in Norway's civil service, in English
Arne Torp, Lars S. Vikør (1993), Hovuddrag i norsk språkhistorie (3.utgåve), Gyldendal Norsk Forlag AS 2003
Lars S. Vikør (2015), Norwegian: Bokmål vs. Nynorsk, on Språkrådet's website
External links[edit]
 Bokmål edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
 Nynorsk edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For a list of words relating to Norwegian language, see the Norwegian language category of words in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Norwegian.
Wikisource has the text of the 1905 New International Encyclopedia article  "Norwegian Language".
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Norwegian
Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Norwegian Phrasebook.
Ordboka – Online dictionary search, both Bokmål and Nynorsk.
Fiske, Willard (1879). "Norway, Language and Literature of" . The American Cyclopædia.
Norwegian as a Normal Language, in English, at Språkrådet
Ordbøker og nettressurser – a collection of dictionaries and online resources (in Norwegian) from Språkrådet
vteNorwegian language
Alphabet
Orthography
Æ
Ø
Å
Scandinavian Braille
Phonology
Norwegian language conflict
VarietiesWrittenOfficial
Bokmål
Nynorsk
Samnorsk (discontinued)
Unofficial
Høgnorsk
Riksmål
SpokenWest and south
Arendalsk
Bergensk
Sandnesmål
Sognamål
Stavangersk
etc.
East
Bohusmål
Gudbrandsdalsmål
Hallingmål-Valdris
Särna-Idremål [sv]
Urban East Norwegian
Vikværsk
Oslo dialect
etc.
Trøndersk
Herjedalsk [sv]
Jemtlansk
Medalsk
Trondheimsk
etc.
North
Brønnøymål
etc.
Non-dialectical
Kebabnorsk
Modern Norwegian
Svorsk
American Norwegian
Extinct
Old West Norse
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Dano-Norwegian
Russenorsk
Other topics
Comparison of Norwegian Bokmål and Standard Danish
Exonyms
Literature
Profanity
Sign language
 "Kjell"
Institutions
Language Council of Norway
Noregs Mållag
Norwegian Academy
Riksmål Society
vteLanguages of NorwayOfficial languages
Norwegian
Bokmål
Nynorsk
Sámi
Southern
Lule
Northern
Minority languagesRecognized
Kven
Romani
Scandoromani
Unrecognized
Bergensk
Highlands Norwegian
Gudbrandsdalsmål
Hallingmål-Valdris
Setesdalsk
Trøndersk
Trondheimsk
Vestfold language
Andebu-Revetal dialect
Tunsbergian
Sign languages
Norwegian Sign Language
vteGermanic languagesAccording to contemporary philologyWestAnglo-FrisianAnglic
English
dialects
Old English
Middle English
Modern English
Early Modern English
Irish Anglo-Norman
Fingallian
Yola
Scots
Early Scots
Middle Scots
FrisianHistorical forms
Old Frisian
Middle Frisian
East Frisian
Ems
Saterland Frisian
Weser
Wangerooge Frisian
Wursten Frisian
North Frisian
Insular
Eiderstedt
Föhr–Amrum
Föhr
Amrum
Heligolandic
Sylt
Mainland
Bökingharde
Mooring
Halligen
Goesharde
Northern
Central
Southern
Karrharde
Strand
Wiedingharde
West Frisian
Hindeloopen
Schiermonnikoog
Westlauwers–Terschellings
Mainland West Frisian
Clay Frisian
Wood Frisian
Westereendersk
Terschelling
Low GermanHistorical forms
Old Saxon
Middle Low German
West Low German
Dutch Low Saxon
Stellingwarfs
Tweants
Gronings
Drèents
Gelders-Overijssels
Achterhooks
Sallaans
Urkers
Veluws
Northern Low Saxon
East Frisian Low Saxon
Eastphalian
Westphalian
East Low German
Mecklenburgisch-Vorpommersch
Brandenburgisch
Central Pomeranian
East Pomeranian
Low Prussian
Plautdietsch / Mennonite Low German
Low FranconianHistorical forms
Frankish
Old Dutch
Middle Dutch
Standard variants
Dutch
Afrikaans (Kaaps)
West Low Franconian
Central Dutch
Hollandic
South Guelderish
West Flemish
French Flemish
Zeelandic
East Flemish
Brabantian
Surinamese Dutch
Jersey Dutch
Mohawk Dutch
Stadsfries/Bildts/Amelands/Midslands
East Low Franconian
Meuse-Rhenish
Limburgish
Southeast Limburgish
High GermanHistorical forms
Old High German
Middle High German
New High German
Early New High German
Standard German
German Standard German
Austrian Standard German
Swiss Standard German
Non-standard variants and creoles
Namibian German
Namibian Black German
Berlinerisch
Unserdeutsch
Barossa German
Rotwelsch
Lotegorisch
Yenish
Yiddish
Eastern
Western
Scots Yiddish
Klezmer-loshn
Lachoudisch
Central GermanWest Central German
Central Franconian
Ripuarian
Colognian
Moselle Franconian
Luxembourgish
Transylvanian Saxon
Hunsrückisch
Hunsrik
Rhine Franconian
Lorraine Franconian
Palatine
Volga German
Pennsylvania Dutch
Hessian
Central Hessian
Amana German
East Central German
Thuringian
Upper Saxon
Erzgebirgisch
Lusatian
Silesian German
High Prussian
Wymysorys
Halcnovian
Upper German
Alemannic in the broad sense
Low Alemannic
Alsatian
Coloniero
High Alemannic
Swiss German
Highest Alemannic
Walser German
Swabian
Bavarian
Northern Bavarian
Central Bavarian
Viennese German
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Hutterite German
South Franconian
East Franconian
Vogtlandian
Langobardic
North and EastNorthHistorical forms
Proto-Norse
Old Norse
Old West Norse
Old East Norse
Old Gutnish
West
Norwegian
Bergensk
Kebabnorsk
Sognamål
Trøndersk
Valdris
Vestlandsk
Vikværsk
Bokmål (written)
Nynorsk (written)
Old Norwegian
Middle Norwegian
Faroese
Icelandic
Old Icelandic
Middle Icelandic
Greenlandic Norse
Norn
East
Swedish
Swedish dialects
Danish
Danish dialects
Insular Danish
Jutlandic
South Jutlandic
East Danish
Bornholmsk
Scanian
Southern Schleswig Danish
Gøtudanskt
Perkerdansk
Old Danish
Middle Danish
Dalecarlian
Elfdalian
Gutnish
Mainland Gutnish
Fårö Gutnish
East
Gothic (Crimean Gothic)
Burgundian
Vandalic
PhilologyLanguage subgroups
North
East
West
Elbe (Irminonic)
Weser-Rhine (Istvaeonic)
North Sea (Ingvaeonic)
Northwest
Gotho-Nordic
South
Reconstructed
Proto-Germanic
Proto-Germanic grammar
Germanic parent language
Ancient Belgian language
Diachronic features
Grimm's law
Verner's law
Holtzmann's law
Sievers's law
Kluge's law
Germanic substrate hypothesis
West Germanic gemination
High German consonant shift
Germanic a-mutation
Germanic umlaut
Germanic spirant law
Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law
Great Vowel Shift
Synchronic features
Germanic verb
Germanic strong verb
Germanic weak verb
Preterite-present verb
Grammatischer Wechsel
Indo-European ablaut
Italics indicate extinct languages
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
vteNorwegian dictionariesRiksmål
Det Norske Akademis ordbok
Norsk Riksmålsordbok
Norsk ordbok
Riksmålsordlisten
Bokmål
Det Norske Akademis ordbok
Bokmålsordboka
Norsk ordbok
Tanums store rettskrivningsordbok
Nynorsk
Nynorskordboka
Norsk Ordbok
vteNorway articlesHistory
Stone Age
Bronze Age
Petty kingdoms
Viking Age
Unification
High Middle Ages
Kingdom of Norway (872–1397)
Hereditary Kingdom of Norway
Kalmar Union
Denmark–Norway
Kingdom of Norway (1814)
Sweden–Norway
End of the union
World War II
Reichskommissariat
Quisling regime
Norwegian government-in-exile
1945–2000
21st century
Geography
Climate
Districts
Extreme points
Islands
Lakes
Mammals
Mountains
Municipalities
Cities
Protected areas
Rivers
World Heritage Sites
Politics
Administrative divisions
National budget
Constitution
Courts
Elections
Foreign relations
Governments
Incarceration
LGBT rights
Military
Monarchy
Parliament
Police
Political parties
Prime Minister
Membership of International organizations
Economy
Energy
Fisheries
Government Pension Fund
Industry
Mining
Natural gas
Krone (currency)
National bank
Norwegian paradox
Oil
Renewable energy
Stock Exchange
Taxation
Tourism
Trade unions
Transport
Whaling
Society
Crime
Demographics
Education
Ethnic groups
Health
Immigration
Incarceration
Languages
language conflict
Norwegians
Pensions
Religion
Culture
Architecture
Art
Bunad (clothing)
Christmas (season)
Cinema
Cuisine
Jante law
Music
Norwegian language
Literature
Media
Prostitution
Public holidays
Sport
Romantic nationalism
Symbols
Anthem
Coat of arms
Flags
national flag
Mottos
Name of Norway
Outline
Category
Portal
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Norwegian_language&oldid=1171339733"
Categories: Norwegian languageFusional languagesLanguages of NorwayNorth Germanic languagesScandinavian cultureStress-timed languagesSubject–verb–object languagesTonal languagesVerb-second languagesWest Scandinavian languagesHidden categories: Pages that use PhonosCS1 Norwegian-language sources (no)CS1 Norwegian Bokmål-language sources (nb)All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2020Articles with permanently dead external linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from September 2022All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from August 2023Articles containing Norwegian-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeISO language articles citing sources other than EthnologueArticles needing additional references from July 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2021Articles with unsourced statements from December 2022Articles with unsourced statements from January 2017Articles with unsourced statements from January 2009All articles with vague or ambiguous timeVague or ambiguous time from December 2022Articles needing additional references from April 2021Articles containing Danish-language textArticles containing Bokmål-language textArticles containing Nynorsk-language textArticles containing Swedish-language textArticles containing Old Norse-language textArticles containing Icelandic-language textArticles containing Faroese-language textArticles containing Old English (ca. 450-1100)-language textArticles containing German-language textArticles containing Dutch-language textArticles containing Afrikaans-language textArticles containing Low German-language textArticles with unsourced statements from September 2022Articles to be expanded from June 2019All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxesWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American CyclopaediaWikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American Cyclopaedia with a Wikisource referenceArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 20 August 2023, at 14:43 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width