Mount Kinabalu - revered abode of the dead
         
       
    
     
    
Vertebrate fauna of SE Asia
    
 
    
     
 
Home
 
——————————
 
SE Asia fauna ...
 
 
 
Primates
 Carnivorans
 Large Mammals
 Small Mammals
 Mammal calls
 Bats
—————
Birds
—————
 Snakes
 Lizards & Crocodilians
     Turtles
—————
     Amphibians
 Tadpoles
     Frog calls
—————
Freshwater Fishes
 Marine & Brackish Fishes
—————
Species Lists
 
 
     
——————————
 
SE 
    Asia Vert Records (SEAVR) ...
 
 
 
    Philippines Records
  Indochina Records
  Indonesia 
    & PNG Records
 
——————————
 
New Guinea herptiles ...
 
Snakes  
     Lizards  
 Frogs
 
——————————
 
 
 
 
    
New  or updated pages ...
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
——————————
 
 
Search this site ...
 
 
    
 
 
     
——————————
     
     
Links :
    My wife, Sophia's website ... super-healthy, vegan delights :
Vegan-Inspired.com
     
     
——————————
     
     
    Email :
    Text and photos by Nick Baker, unless otherwise credited.
    Copyright © Ecology Asia 2023
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
 
 
 
 
> Mount Kinabalu
< back
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mount Kinabalu National 
    Park
 
 
 
... revered abode of the dead
 
 
 
 
 
  
    Introduction
 
 
 
 
The dramatic 4101 metre peak of 
        Mount Kinabalu rises from the lowlands of Borneo.
 
 
 
 
Having recently acquired UNESCO World Heritage status, 
    Mount Kinabalu is now firmly on the world map. Botanists, zoologists, and 
    more recently ecologists, have known for centuries that this most famous 
    mountain of Borneo is utterly unique. First climbed in 1851 by Sir Hugh Low, 
    a British colonial administrator, its name 'Aki Nabalu' means 'revered abode 
    of the dead' in the local Dusun tongue.  
Sir Hugh never made the true summit though, that 
    honour being held by the zoologist John Whitehead who, in 1888, collected 
    birds and mammals on the mountain's slopes and climbed to the true summit 
    called 'Low's Peak'. Now, the summit trail is walked by thousands of 
    climbers each year.
  
The Mountain
 
 
Jagged peaks dominate the 
        summit. The twin peaks at left are the 'Donkey's Ears'.
 
'Cloud Forest' 
        occurs in  the Lower Montane and Upper Montane Zones
 
 
 
 
 
At 4101 metres Mount Kinabalu is the highest peak in 
    Southeast Asia (excluding New Guinea), and one of the youngest, having been 
    formed in the last few million years. Its core is formed of hard, 
    silica-rich igneous rocks (mainly granite and granodiorite), however there 
    are significant ultramafic zones (i.e. rock formations low in silica 
    content). The resistance of these rock types to weathering has given rise to 
    a dramatic summit dominated by a series of treacherous, jagged peaks carved 
    during the last ice age around 10,000 years ago.  
The mountain is still rising at a geologically rapid 
    rate of 5mm per year, and this has resulted in steep slopes and deep 
    gullies. To the east lies Low's Gully, a nightmarish mile-deep ravine in 
    which, in 1994, an 18-strong British Army team, well-prepared for jungle 
    training, became hopelessly stranded for a month. 
 
    Botanical Diversity
  
 
 
            
Epiphytic gingers (Hedichium 
              cylindricum.), flowering herbaceous
 plants, forest fruits, Medinilla speciosa
  
The forces of recent evolutionary divergence, 
    abundance of microhabitats, altitude effects, soil variability and the 
    location of Mount Kinabalu at the heart of the botanically diverse Malesian 
    region have conspired to produce incredible botanical diversity. For the 
    naturalist this is the most remarkable of Mount Kinabalu's attractions. 
    
Though the lowland rainforests have the highest 
    diversity, the higher zones (montane, subalpine) have a high degree of 
    endemism. For example, it is estimated that 4000 species of vascular plants 
    are to be found on the mountain of which some 400 are to be found nowhere 
    else on the planet. 
The eminent botanist, E.J.H. Corner, identified that 
    many plant and tree species or genera in the higher, temperate zones of 
    Mount Kinabalu are isolated examples of groups generally more common in 
    other countries such as New Guinea, China, Vietnam and Australia. 
 
Floristic Zonation
Floristic 
        Zone
Elevation
 
Lowland 
        Forest
Up to 
        1200m
 
Lower 
        Montane
1200m to 
        2000/2350m
 
Upper 
        Montane
2000/2350m 
        to 2600/2800m
 
Subalpine
2600/2800m 
        to 3400m
 
Alpine
3400m to 
        summit
 
 
 
 
The distribution of flora on the mountain is a classic 
    example of altitude and temperature-related zonation. From the warm lowland 
    rainforests to the near-freezing alpine conditions at the summit, each zone 
    is characterised by a quite different assemblage of plant species. Dr. 
    Kanehiro Kitayama, a Japanese ecologist, concluded that there were broadly 
    four floristic zones (see table) largely dictated by the temperature 
    gradient. For each 100 metre rise in altitude there is a 0.55 degree 
    centigrade fall in mean temperature i.e. a 22.5 degree fall from sea-level 
    to the summit. 
 
 
 
Cool mountain water feeds  this moss-filled 
        tributary  to the Liwagu River
Lowland Forests
As with much of Borneo, the Lowland Forest below 1200 
    metres is dominated by the climax tropical vegetation comprising 
    Dipterocarps (at least 40 species), Figs, Rattans, the Eugenia genus and 
    Lianas. These forests are best viewed near the Poring Hot Springs, where 
    accommodation is available and well marked trails wind through the forest.
    
 
    Montane Forests
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mosses, orchids, fungi and ferns abound in 
              the stream gullies of the Montane Forest  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peaty soils with high organic and water content 
        characterise the Montane Forests, which are dominated by Oaks, Conifers, 
        Myrtle, and shrubs of the tea family. In addition there are 22 species 
        of Cyathea tree-fern. This zone is referred to as 'cloud forest'; at 
        times the cool humidity is so high that condensation occurs on leaves, 
        and there is a constant drip of moisture onto the forest floor. 
Visitors to the National Park who prefer to remain at 
    the park headquarters (elevation 1500 metres) and not climb the summit have 
    the opportunity to stroll along well-marked trails within the Lower Montane 
    Zone. The most rewarding paths follow the boulder-filled gullies which carry 
    cool mountain waters to the Liwagu River. There, the constant moist 
    conditions are ideal for an abundance of ferns, mosses, orchids and fungi to 
    flourish. The ferns are particularly abundant, with over 600 species present 
    of which 50 are endemic. 
Occasional flashes of colour punctuate the intense 
    greenery, revealing the presence of exotic epiphytic gingers (there are over 
    30 species of ginger here), bright orange forest fruits or delicate 
    flowering herbs. When in flower, hundreds of orchid species (over 750) 
    advertise their presence with an astounding diversity of form. Numerous 
    species of rhododendron are also to be found. 
 
Subalpine 
    Zone
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Left : Villose Pitcher Plant Nepenthes villosa
 Right : Kinabalu Pitcher Plant Nepenthes x kinabaluensis
 
 
 Dominated by 
    species of the Leptospermum, Tristaniopsis, Dacrydium and Gymnostoma genera, 
    the trees in the Subalpine Zone are stunted and gnarled. Here Pitcher Plants 
    are easily found, and these are especially abundant on the soils associated 
    with ultramafic rocks. There are around 30 species of Pitcher Plant in 
    Borneo, of which half occur on Mount Kinabalu. Many are endemic to the 
    mountain including Nepenthes burbidgeae, N. edwarsiana and N. villosa. The 
    'king' of the Pitcher Plants, Nepenthes rajah, is to be found here. This 
    species, named after James Brooke, the 'White Rajah' of Sarawak, is the 
    largest in the world. Its pitcher can hold up to 3.5 litres of water when 
    filled, and there are a number of documented cases of drowned rats being 
    found inside ! 
  
    Alpine ZoneThe
        Alpine Zone is that area above the tree-line, where only
        small herbs and stunted shrubs are to be found, though some larger
        species cling to life at higher altitudes in sheltered gullies and
        ravines. The absence of trees indicates that during extreme conditions
        ground frost may occur at night. 
        The summit is dominated by bare rock carved by many millennia of weathering, and huge boulders,
        split from the mountain by night-time temperature changes. Here the only
        plant life is delicate lichens sheltering in nooks
        and crannies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indigo 
        Flycatcher 
Eumyias indigo
  
 
Bornean Whistler 
Pachycephala hypoxantha
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Chestnut-capped
        Laughing-thrush 
Garrulax mitratus 
 
 
        Malaysian Treepie
Dendrocitta occipitalis
 
Birds of a 
    feather ... flock together
New
        arrivals at the park headquarters might wonder where Borneo's famed
        birdlife is hiding.  The forest initially seems quiet and devoid of
        birds. Patience, however, will be rewarded when flocks of mixed species
        swoop down from the upper canopy to feed in the lower canopy. These are
        the famous 'bird-waves' in which a diverse range of species act in
        unison to flush out insects and other prey. The bird photographer,
        having waiting patiently with his camera and tripod for hours, suddenly
        has roving bands of Flycatchers, Whistlers, Tailorbirds, Warblers and
        Fantails chaotically feeding a few yards from where he stands. 
Other
        birds commonly found include White-eyes, Yuhinas and Drongos.  Near
        the Visitor Centre the Chestnut-capped Laughing-thrush may be found and, on
        occasion, the beautiful Malaysian Treepie. Rarely seen, however, are the
        ground-dwelling birds such as the Crimson-headed and Red-breasted
        Partridges.  Hornbills, including the Rhinoceros Hornbill, may be
        seen gliding above the forest canopy. 
Reptiles, Amphibians, Mammals
Lying
        hidden from most visitors are the other vertebrate species, most of
        which are nocturnal.  The mammals tend to inhabit the Lowland
        Forest, such as the Clouded Leopard, Leopard Cat, Sun Bear, Pangolin,
        Slow Loris,  civets, porcupines, mousedeer as well as various
        leaf-monkeys and macaques.  Rarer species include the Ferret-badger
        and the Lesser Gymnure.
The
        reptile and amphibian enthusiast, however, can enjoy rewarding night
        walks searching for, amongst others, the
    Kinabalu
        Angle-toed Gecko, the
    Mountain
        Litter Frog and the bizarre looking
    Borneo
        Anglehead Agamid.  Keep an eye open too for nocturnal snakes
        including Schmidt's
        Reed Snake which makes its home at the same elevation as the park
        headquarters.  
Now that Mount Kinabalu's biological diversity is so
        well recognised perhaps this famed peak should be changed from 'Revered
        Abode of the Dead' to 'Revered Abode of the Living'.
 
 
 
 
References :
Wong K.M. & Chan C.L., 
      1997. Mount Kinabalu, Borneo's Magic Mountain. Natural History 
      Publications (Borneo) Sdn. Bhd.
      R.F. Inger & Tan F.L., 1996. The Natural History of Amphibians and 
      Reptiles in Sabah. Natural History Publications (Borneo) Sdn. Bhd. 
      Phillipps A. & Lamb A., 1996. Pitcher Plants of Borneo. Natural History 
      Publications (Borneo) Sdn. Bhd. 
      Lim K.S., 1994. The World's Richest Montane Forests. Article in Volume 2 
      No. 4 of Nature Watch. Nature Society 
      (Singapore).
 
 
Thanks to :
Steve & 
      Dianne Owad-Jones for organising my trip, taking the shots of Pitcher 
      Plants and last, but not least, being such great company.
 