Friulian language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1History
Toggle History subsection
1.1The "Ladin Question"
2Areas
Toggle Areas subsection
2.1Italy
2.2World
3Literature
4Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
4.1Consonants
4.2Vowels
4.3Orthography
4.4Long vowels and their origin
5Morphology
Toggle Morphology subsection
5.1Nouns
5.1.1Feminine
5.1.2Masculine
5.2Articles
5.3Adjectives
5.4Plurals
5.4.1Exceptions
5.5Clitic subject pronouns
5.6Verbs
5.7Adverbs
6Vocabulary
7Present condition
Toggle Present condition subsection
7.1Toponyms
8Standardisation
Toggle Standardisation subsection
8.1Criticism
8.2Variants of Friulian
9Writing systems
Toggle Writing systems subsection
9.1Other systems
10Examples
Toggle Examples subsection
10.1The Fox and the Crow translation in Central Friulian
11References
Toggle References subsection
11.1Notations
11.2Footnotes
12External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Friulian language
84 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBoarischBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCorsuCymraegDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisFurlanGaelgGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתKernowekKiswahiliКомиKurdîLadinLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålOccitanپنجابیPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRumantschРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤSarduSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaTürkçeУкраїнськаVènetoTiếng ViệtWalon吴语粵語中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Gallo-Romance language of Friuli, northeast Italy
"Furlan" redirects here. For the surname, see Furlan (surname).
FriulianfurlanNative toItalyRegionFriuliEthnicityFriuliansNative speakersRegular speakers: 420,000 (2014)[1]Total: 600,000 (2014)[1]Language familyIndo-European
ItalicLatino-FaliscanRomanceItalo-WesternWestern RomanceGallo-RomanceRhaeto-Romance or Gallo-Rhaetian[2]FriulianStandard formsFurlan standardWriting systemLatin (Friulian alphabet)Official statusRegulated byAgjenzie regjonâl pe lenghe furlane [2]Language codesISO 639-2furISO 639-3furGlottologfriu1240ELPFriulianLinguasphere51-AAA-mThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Friulian (/friˈuːliən/ free-OO-lee-ən) or Friulan (natively furlani or marilenghe; Italian: friulano; Austrian German: Furlanisch; Slovene: furlanščina) is a Romance language belonging to the Rhaeto-Romance family, spoken in the Friuli region of northeastern Italy. Friulian has around 600,000 speakers, the vast majority of whom also speak Italian. It is sometimes called Eastern Ladin since it shares the same roots as Ladin, but over the centuries, it has diverged under the influence of surrounding languages, including German, Italian, Venetian, and Slovene. Documents in Friulian are attested from the 11th century and poetry and literature date as far back as 1300.  By the 20th century, there was a revival of interest in the language.
History[edit]
Historical flag of Friûl and the Friulian people.
A question that causes many debates is the influence of the Latin spoken in Aquileia and surrounding areas. Some claim that it had peculiar features that later passed into Friulian. Epigraphs and inscriptions from that period show some variants if compared to the standard Latin language, but most of them are common to other areas of the Roman Empire. Often, it is cited that Fortunatianus, the bishop of Aquileia c. 342–357 AD, wrote a commentary to the Gospel in sermo rusticus (the common/rustic language), which, therefore, would have been quite divergent from the standard Latin of administration.[3] The text itself did not survive so its language cannot be examined, but its attested existence testifies to a shift of languages while, for example, other important communities of Northern Italy were still speaking Latin. The language spoken before the arrival of the Romans in 181 BC was of Celtic origin since the inhabitants belonged to the Carni, a Celtic population.[4] In modern Friulian, the words of Celtic origins are many (terms referring to mountains, woods, plants, animals, inter alia) and much influence of the original population is shown in toponyms (names of villages with -acco, -icco).[5] Even influences from the Lombardic language — Friuli was one of their strongholds — are very frequent. In a similar manner, there are unique connections to the modern, nearby Lombard language.
In Friulian, there is also a plethora of words of German, Slovenian and Venetian origin. From that evidence, scholars today agree that the formation of Friulian dates back to circa 1000 AD, at the same time as other dialects derived from Latin (see Vulgar Latin). The first written records of Friulian have been found in administrative acts of the 13th century, but the documents became more frequent in the following century, when literary works also emerged (Frammenti letterari for example). The main centre at that time was Cividale. The Friulian language has never acquired primary official status: legal statutes were first written in Latin, then in Venetian and finally in Italian.
The "Ladin Question"[edit]
Historical linguist Graziadio Isaia Ascoli presented the theory that Ladin, Romansh and Friulian are from the same family.
Main article: Questione Ladina
The idea of unity among Ladin, Romansh and Friulian comes from the Italian historical linguist Graziadio Isaia Ascoli, who was born in Gorizia. In 1871, he presented his theory that these three languages are part of one family, which in the past stretched from Switzerland to Muggia and perhaps also Istria. The three languages are the only survivors of this family and all developed differently. Friulian was much less influenced by German. The scholar Francescato claimed subsequently that until the 14th century, the Venetian language shared many phonetic features with Friulian and Ladin and so he thought that Friulian was a much more conservative language. Many features that Ascoli thought were peculiar to the Rhaeto-Romance languages can, in fact, be found in other languages of Northern Italy.
Areas[edit]
Italy[edit]
Today, Friulian is spoken in the province of Udine, including the area of the Carnia Alps, but as well throughout the province of Pordenone, in half of the province of Gorizia, and in the eastern part of the province of Venice. In the past, the language borders were wider since in Trieste and Muggia, local variants of Friulian were spoken. The main document about the dialect of Trieste, or tergestino, is "Dialoghi piacevoli in dialetto vernacolo triestino", published by G. Mainati in 1828.
World[edit]
Friuli was, until the 1960s, an area of deep poverty, causing a large number of Friulian speakers to emigrate. Most went to France, Belgium, and Switzerland or outside Europe, to Canada, Mexico, Australia, Uruguay, Argentina, Brazil, Venezuela, the United States, and South Africa. In those countries, there are associations of Friulian immigrants (called Fogolâr furlan) that try to protect their traditions and language.
Literature[edit]
This section is missing information about Examples and english translation of 13th and 14th century texts. Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page. (May 2018)
Main article: Friulian literature
The first texts in Friulian date back to the 13th century and are mainly commercial or juridical acts. The examples show that Friulian was used together with Latin, which was still the administrative language. The main examples of literature that have survived (much from this period has been lost) are poems from the 14th century and are usually dedicated to the theme of love and are probably inspired by the Italian poetic movement Dolce Stil Novo. The most notable work is Piruç myò doç inculurit (which means "My pear, all colored"); it was composed by an anonymous author from Cividale del Friuli, probably in 1380.
Original text
Version in modern Friulian
Piruç myò doç inculurit
quant yò chi viot, dut stoi ardit
Piruç gno dolç incolorît
cuant che jo ti viôt, dut o stoi ardît
There are few differences in the first two rows, which demonstrates that there has not been a great evolution in the language except for several words which are no longer used (for example, dum(n) lo, a word which means "child"). A modern Friulian speaker can understand these texts with only little difficulty.
The second important period for Friulian literature is the 16th century. The main author of this period was Ermes di Colorêt, who composed over 200 poems.
Notable poets and writers:
Years active:
Ermes di Colorêt
1622–1692
Pietro Zorutti
1792–1867
Caterina Percoto
1812–1887
Novella Cantarutti [fur; it]
1920–2009
Pier Paolo Pasolini
1922–1975
Rina Del Nin Cralli (Canada)
1929–2021
Carlo Sgorlon [fur; it]
1930–2009
Phonology[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (July 2012)
Consonants[edit]
Consonant phonemes in Central Friulian[6]
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
(ŋ)
Plosive
voiceless
p
t
c
k
voiced
b
d
ɟ
ɡ
Affricate
voiceless
ts
tʃ
voiced
dz
dʒ
Fricative
voiceless
f
s
(ʃ)
voiced
v
z
(ʒ)
Trill
r
Approximant
w
l
j
Notes:
/m, p, b/ are bilabial, whereas /f, v/ are labiodental and /w/ is labiovelar.
Note that, in the standard language, a phonemic distinction exists between true palatal stops [c ɟ] and palatoalveolar affricates [tʃ dʒ]. The former (written ⟨cj gj⟩) originate from Latin ⟨c g⟩ before ⟨a⟩, whereas the latter (written ⟨c/ç z⟩, where ⟨c⟩ is found before ⟨e⟩ and ⟨i⟩, and ⟨ç⟩ is found elsewhere) originate primarily from Latin ⟨c g⟩ before ⟨e⟩ and ⟨i⟩. The palatalization of Latin ⟨c⟩ and ⟨g⟩ before ⟨a⟩ is characteristic of the Rhaeto-Romance languages and is also found in French and some Occitan varieties. In some Friulian dialects (e.g. Western dialects), corresponding to Central [c ɟ tʃ dʒ] are found [tʃ dʒ s z]. Note in addition that, due to various sound changes, these sounds are all now phonemic; note, for example, the minimal pair cjoc "drunk" vs. çoc "log".
Vowels[edit]
Friulian vowel chart.[7] The long vowels are slightly diphthongal, and the blue vowels occur when unstressed.
Vowel phonemes[8]
Front
Central
Back
Close
i iː
u uː
Close mid
e eː
o oː
Open mid
ɛ
ɔ
Open
a aː
Orthography[edit]
Some notes on orthography (from the perspective of the standard, i.e. Central, dialect):[9]
Long vowels are indicated with a circumflex: ⟨â ê î ô û⟩.
⟨e⟩ is used for both /ɛ/ (which only occurs in stressed syllables) and /e/; similarly, ⟨o⟩ is used for both /ɔ/ and /o/.
/j/ is spelled ⟨j⟩ word-initially, and ⟨i⟩ elsewhere.
/w/ occurs primarily in diphthongs, and is spelled ⟨u⟩.
/s/ is normally spelled ⟨s⟩, but is spelled ⟨ss⟩ between vowels (in this context, a single ⟨s⟩ is pronounced /z/).
/ɲ/ is spelled ⟨gn⟩, which can also occur word-finally.
[ŋ] is an allophone of /n/, found word-finally, before word-final -s, and often in the prefix in-. Both sounds are spelled ⟨n⟩.
/k/ is normally spelled ⟨c⟩, but ⟨ch⟩ before ⟨e⟩ and ⟨i⟩, as in Italian.
/ɡ/ is normally spelled ⟨g⟩, but ⟨gh⟩ before ⟨e⟩ and ⟨i⟩, again as in Italian.
The palatal stops /c ɟ/ are spelled ⟨cj gj⟩. Note that in some dialects, these sounds are pronounced [tʃ dʒ], as described above.
/tʃ/ is spelled ⟨c⟩ before ⟨e⟩ and ⟨i⟩, ⟨ç⟩ elsewhere. Note that in some dialects, this sound is pronounced [s].
/dʒ/ is spelled ⟨z⟩. Note that in some dialects, this sound is pronounced [z].
⟨z⟩ can also represent /ts/ or /dz/ in certain words (e.g. nazion "nation", lezion "lesson").
⟨h⟩ is silent.
⟨q⟩ is no longer used except in the traditional spelling of certain proper names; similarly for ⟨g⟩ before ⟨e⟩ and ⟨i⟩.
Long vowels and their origin[edit]
Long vowels are typical of the Friulian language and greatly influence the Friulian pronunciation of Italian.
Friulian distinguishes between short and long vowels: in the following minimal pairs (long vowels are marked in the official orthography with a circumflex accent):
lat (milk)
lât (gone)
fis (fixed, dense)
fîs (sons)
lus (luxury)
lûs (light n.)
Friulian dialects differ in their treatment of long vowels. In certain dialects, some of the long vowels are actually diphthongs. The following chart shows how six words (sêt thirst, pît foot, fîl "wire", pôc (a) little, fûc fire, mûr "wall") are pronounced in four dialects. Each dialect uses a unique pattern of diphthongs (yellow) and monophthongs (blue) for the long vowels:
Latin origin
West
Codroipo
Carnia
Central
sêt "thirst"
SITIM
[seit]
[seːt]
[seit]
[seːt]
pît "foot"
PEDEM
[peit]
[peit]
[piːt]
[piːt]
fîl "wire"
FĪLUM
[fiːl]
[fiːl]
[fiːl]
[fiːl]
pôc "a little"
PAUCUM
[pouk]
[poːk]
[pouk]
[poːk]
fûc "fire"
FOCUM
[fouk]
[fouk]
[fuːk]
[fuːk]
mûr "wall"
MŪRUM
[muːr]
[muːr]
[muːr]
[muːr]
Note that the vowels î and û in the standard language (based on the Central dialects) correspond to two different sounds in the Western dialects (including Codroipo). These sounds are not distributed randomly but correspond to different origins: Latin short E in an open syllable produces Western [ei] but Central [iː], whereas Latin long Ī produces [iː] in both dialects. Similarly, Latin short O in an open syllable produces Western [ou] but Central [uː], whereas Latin long Ū produces [uː] in both dialects. The word mûr, for example, means both "wall" (Latin MŪRUM) and "(he, she, it) dies" (Vulgar Latin *MORIT from Latin MORITUR); both words are pronounced [muːr] in Central dialects, but respectively [muːr] and [mour] in Western dialects.
Long consonants (ll, rr, and so on), frequently used in Italian, are usually absent in Friulian.
Friulian long vowels originate primarily from vowel lengthening in stressed open syllables when the following vowel was lost.[8] Friulian vowel length has no relation to vowel length in Classical Latin. For example, Latin valet yields vâl "it is worth" with a long vowel, but Latin vallem yields val "valley" with a short vowel. Long vowels aren't found when the following vowel is preserved, e.g.:
before final -e < Latin -a, cf. short nuve "new (fem. sg.)" < Latin nova vs. long nûf "new (masc. sg.)" < Latin novum;
before a non-final preserved vowel, cf. tivit /ˈtivit/ "tepid, lukewarm" < Latin tepidum, zinar /ˈzinar/ "son-in-law" < Latin generum, ridi /ˈridi/ "to laugh" < Vulgar Latin *rīdere (Classical rīdēre).
It is quite possible that vowel lengthening occurred originally in all stressed open syllables, and was later lost in non-final syllables.[10] Evidence of this is found, for example, in the divergent outcome of Vulgar Latin */ɛ/, which becomes /jɛ/ in originally closed syllables but /i(ː)/ in Central Friulian in originally open syllables, including when non-finally. Examples: siet "seven" < Vulgar Latin */sɛtte/ < Latin SEPTEM, word-final pît "foot" < Vulgar Latin */pɛde/ < Latin PEDEM, non-word-final tivit /ˈtivit/ "tepid, lukewarm" < Vulgar Latin */tɛpedu/ < Latin TEPIDUM.
An additional source of vowel length is compensatory lengthening before lost consonants in certain circumstances, cf. pâri "father" < Latin patrem, vôli "eye" < Latin oc(u)lum, lîre "pound" < Latin libra. This produces long vowels in non-final syllables, and was apparently a separate, later development than the primary lengthening in open syllables. Note, for example, the development of Vulgar Latin */ɛ/ in this context: */ɛ/ > */jɛ/ > iê /jeː/, as in piêre "stone" < Latin PETRAM, differing from the outcome /i(ː)/ in originally open syllables (see above).
Additional complications:
Central Friulian has lengthening before /r/ even in originally closed syllables, cf. cjâr /caːr/ "cart" < Latin carrum (homophonous with cjâr "dear [masc. sg.]" < Latin cārum). This represents a late, secondary development, and some conservative dialects have the expected length distinction here.
Lengthening doesn't occur before nasal consonants even in originally open syllables, cf. pan /paŋ/ "bread" < Latin panem, prin /priŋ/ "first" < Latin prīmum.
Special developments produced absolutely word-final long vowels and length distinctions, cf. fi "fig" < Latin FĪCUM vs. fî "son" < Latin FĪLIUM, no "no" < Latin NŌN vs. nô "we" < Latin NŌS.
Synchronic analyses of vowel length in Friulian often claim that it occurs predictably in final syllables before an underlying voiced obstruent, which is then devoiced.[11] Analyses of this sort have difficulty with long-vowel contrasts that occur non-finally (e.g. pâri "father" mentioned above) or not in front of obstruents (e.g. fi "fig" vs. fî "son", val "valley" vs. vâl "it is worth").
Morphology[edit]
Friulian is quite different from Italian in its morphology; it is, in many respects, closer to French.
Nouns[edit]
In Friulian as in other Romance languages, nouns are either masculine or feminine (for example, "il mûr" ("the wall", masculine), "la cjadree" ("the chair", feminine).
Feminine[edit]
Most feminine nouns end in -e, which is pronounced, unlike in Standard French:
cjase = house (from Latin "casa, -ae" hut)
lune = moon (from Latin "luna, -ae")
scuele = school (from Latin "schola, -ae")
Some feminine nouns, however, end in a consonant, including those ending in -zion, which are from Latin.
man = hand (from Latin "manŭs, -ūs" f)
lezion = lesson (from Latin "lectio, -nis" f
Note that in some Friulian dialects the -e feminine ending is actually an -a or an -o, which characterize the dialect area of the language and are referred to as a/o-ending dialects (e.g. cjase is spelled as cjaso or cjasa - the latter being the oldest form of the feminine ending).
Masculine[edit]
Most masculine nouns end either in a consonant or in -i.
cjan = dog
gjat = cat
fradi = brother
libri = book
A few masculine nouns end in -e, including sisteme (system) and probleme (problem). They are usually words coming from Ancient Greek. However, because most masculine nouns end in a consonant, it is common to find the forms sistem and problem instead, more often in print than in speech.
There are also a number of masculine nouns borrowed intact from Italian, with a final -o, like treno (train). Many of the words have been fully absorbed into the language and even form their plurals with the regular Friulian -s rather than the Italian desinence changing. Still, there are some purists, including those influential in Friulian publishing, who frown on such words and insist that the "proper" Friulian terms should be without the final -o. Despite the fact that one almost always hears treno, it is almost always written tren.
Articles[edit]
The Friulian definite article (which corresponds to "the" in English) is derived from the Latin ille and takes the following forms:
Definite articles
Number
Masculine
Feminine
Singular
il
la
Plural
i
lis
Before a vowel, both il and la can be abbreviated to l' in the standard forms - for example il + arbul (the tree) becomes l'arbul. Yet, as far as the article la is concerned, modern grammar recommends that its non elided form should be preferred over the elided one: la acuile (the eagle) although in speech the two a sounds are pronounced as a single one. In the spoken language, various other articles are used.[12]
The indefinite article in Friulian (which corresponds to a and an in English) derives from the Latin unus and varies according to gender:
Indefinite articles
Masculine
un
Feminine
une
A partitive article also exists: des for feminine and dai for masculine: des vacjis – some cows and dai libris - some books
Adjectives[edit]
A Friulian adjective must agree in gender and number with the noun it qualifies. Most adjectives have four forms for singular (masculine and feminine) and plural (masculine and feminine):
Declension
Number
Masculine
Feminine
Singular
brut
brute
Plural
bruts
brutis
(Like for nouns, for a/o-ending dialects the plural is simply obtained by adding an s - e.g. brute corresponds to bruta/bruto and its plural form brutis is brutas/brutos).
The feminine is formed in several ways from the masculine:
in most cases, all that is needed is -e (short: curt, curte)
if the final letter is a -c, the feminine can end with -cje, -gje, -che, -ghe (little: pôc, pôcje)
if the final letter is a -f, the feminine can end with -ve (new: gnûf, gnove)
if the final letter is a -p, the feminine can end with -be (sour: garp, garbe)
if the final letter is a -t, the feminine can end with -de (green: vert, verde)
Plurals[edit]
To form the plural of masculine and feminine nouns ending in -e, the -e is changed to -is (whilst a/o-ending dialects simply add an s)
taule, taulis = table, tables
cjase, cjasis = house, houses
lune, lunis = moon, moons
scuele, scuelis = school, schools
sisteme, sistemis = system, systems
manece, manecis = glove, gloves
gnece, gnecis = niece, nieces
The plural of almost all other nouns is just -s. It is always pronounced as voiceless [s], as in English cats, never as voiced [z], as in dogs.
man, mans = hand, hands
lezion, lezions = lesson, lessons
cjan, cjans = dog, dogs
gjat, gjats = cat, cats
fradi, fradis = brother, brothers
libri, libris = book, books
tren, trens = train, trains
braç, braçs = arm, arms (from Latin "bracchium")
guant, guants = glove, gloves (compare English "gauntlet")
In some Friulian dialects, there are many words whose final consonant becomes silent when the -s is added. The words include just about all those whose singular form ends in -t. The plural of gjat, for example, is written as gjats but is pronounced in much of Friuli as if it were gjas. The plural of plat 'dish', though written as plats, is often pronounced as plas. Other words in this category include clâf (key) and clap (stone), whose plural forms, clâfs and claps, are often pronounced with no f or p, respectively (clâs, clas) so the longer a in the former is all that distinguishes it from the latter. A final -ç, which is pronounced either as the English "-ch" (in central Friulian) or as "-s", is pluralized in writing as -çs, regardless of whether the pluralized pronunciation is "-s" or "-ts" (it varies according to dialect): messaç / messaçs (message).
Exceptions[edit]
Masculine nouns ending in -l or -li form their plurals by palatalising final -l or -li to -i.
cjaval, cjavai = horse, horses (from Latin "caballus")
fîl, fîi = string, strings (from Latin "filum")
cjapiel, cjapiei = hat, hats
cjaveli, cjavei = hair, hairs
voli, voi = eye, eyes
zenoli, zenoi = knee, knees (from Latin "genu")
Notice how these very often correspond to French nouns that form an irregular plural in -x: cheval-chevaux, chapeau-chapeaux, cheveu-cheveux, oeil-yeux, genou-genoux.
Feminine nouns ending in -l have regular plurals.
piel, piels = skin, skins
val, vals (in northern Friulian also "tal", "tals") = valley, valleys
Masculine nouns ending in -st form their plurals by palatalising the final -t to -cj
cavalarist, cavalariscj = military horseman, military horsemen
test, tescj = text, texts
Some masculine nouns ending in -t form their plurals by palatalising the final -t to -cj:
dint, dincj = tooth, teeth (from Latin "dens, -tis")
dut, ducj = all (of one thing), all (of several things) (from Latin "totus")
Nouns ending in "s" do not change spelling in the plural, but some speakers may pronounce the plural -s differently from the singular -s.
vues = bone, bones
pes = fish (singular or plural) (from Latin "piscis")
mês = month, months (from Latin "mensis")
The plural of an (year) has several forms depending on dialect, including ain, ains, agn and agns. Regardless of pronunciation, the written form is agns.
The same happens for the adjective bon (good), as its plural is bogns.
Clitic subject pronouns[edit]
A feature of Friulian are the clitic subject pronouns. Known in Friulian as pleonastics, they are never stressed; they are used together with the verb to express the subject and can be found before the verb in declarative sentences or immediately after it in case of interrogative or vocative (optative) sentences.
Weak pronouns
Declaration
Question
Invocation
I
o
-(i)o
-(i)o
You (singular)
tu
-tu
-tu
He
al
-(i)al
-(i)al
She
e
-(i)e
-(i)e
We
o
-o
-o
You (plural)
o
-o
-o
They
-a
-o
-o
An example: jo o lavori means "I work"; lavorio? means "Do I work?", while lavorassio means "I wish I worked".
Verbs[edit]
Friulian verbal infinitives have one of four endings, -â, -ê, -i, -î; removing the ending gives the root, used to form the other forms (fevelâ, to speak; root fevel-), but in the case of irregular verbs, the root changes. They are common (jessi, to be; vê, to have; podê, to be able to). Verbs are frequently used in combination with adverbs to restrict the meaning.
Verbs, present, declarative form
Person
fevelâ (to speak)
lâ (to go)
jessi (to be)
Jo
o fevel-i
o v-oi
o soi
Tu
tu fevel-is
tu v-âs
tu sês
Lui
al fevel-e
al v-a
al è
Nô
o fevel-ìn
o l-in
o sin
Vô
o fevel-ais
o v-ais (l-ais)
o sês
Lôr
a fevel-in
a v-an
a son
Adverbs[edit]
An adjective can be made into an adverb by adding -mentri to the ending of the feminine singular form of the adjective (lente becomes lentementri, slowly), but it can sometimes[13] lose the -e of the adjective (facile becomes facilmentri, easily). It is more common in the written language; in the spoken language people frequently use other forms or locutions (a planc for slowly).
Vocabulary[edit]
Most vocabulary is derived from Latin, with substantial phonological and morphological changes throughout its history. Therefore, many words are shared with the other Romance languages,[14]
Here the composition:
Celtic (9%) words are many, because the substrate of the Vulgar Latin spoken in Friuli, was the Karn-Celtic language. ("bâr", wood; "clap/crap", stone;"cjâr", plow)
Modern German  (10%) words were introduced in particular in the Middle Ages, during the Patrie dal Friûl, when the influence from this culture was quite strong (bearç, backyard; "crot", frog/toad).
Slavic (3%) words were brought by Slavic (mostly Alpine Slavic) immigrants called several times to Friuli to repopulate lands devastated by Hungarian invasions in the 10th century (cjast, barn; zigâ, to shout). Furthermore, many Slavic words have entered Friulian through the centuries-long neighbouring between Friulians and Slovenes, especially in north-eastern Friuli (Slavia Friulana) and in the Gorizia and Gradisca area. Words such as colaç (cake), cudiç (devil) and cos (basket) are all of Slovene origin. There are also many toponyms with Slavic roots.
There are many words that have Germanic (8%, probably Lombardic origins) and Celtic roots (what still remained of the languages spoken before the Romans came). Examples of the first category are sbregâ, to tear; sedon, spoon; taponâ, to cover. For the latter category, troi, path; bragons, trousers.
Latin and derived languages (68%):
Venetian language influenced Friulian vocabulary: canucje, straw.
Some French words entered the Friulian vocabulary: pardabon, really and gustâ, to have lunch.
Italian  itself has a growing influence on Friulian vocabulary, especially as far as neologisms are concerned (tren meaning train). Such neologisms are currently used even if they're not accepted in the official dictionary (for example the verb "to iron" is sopressâ but the verb stirâ taken from Italian is used more and more instead).
Scientific terms are often of Greek origin, and there are also some Arabic terms in Friulian (<1%, lambic, still).
Many English words (such as computer, monitor, mouse and so on) have entered the Friulian vocabulary through Italian. (more than 1%).
Present condition[edit]
Nowadays, Friulian is officially recognized in Italy, supported by law 482/1999, which protects linguistic minorities. Therefore, optional teaching of Friulian has been introduced in many primary schools. An online newspaper is active, and there are also a number of musical groups singing in Friulian and some theatrical companies. Recently, two movies have been made in Friulian (Tierç lion, Lidrîs cuadrade di trê), with positive reviews in Italian newspapers. In about 40% of the communities in the Province of Udine, road signs are in both Friulian and Italian. There is also an official translation of the Bible. In 2005, a notable brand of beer used Friulian for one of its commercials.
The main association to foster the use and development of Friulian is the Societât filologjiche furlane, founded in Gorizia in 1919.
Toponyms[edit]
Main article: List of Friulian place names
Road sign in Italian and Friulian.
Every city and village in Friuli has two names, one in Italian and one in Friulian. Only the Italian is official and used in administration, but it is widely expected[citation needed] that the Friulian ones will receive partial acknowledgement in the near future. For example, the city of Udine is called Udin in Friulian, the town of Tolmezzo Tumieç and the town of Aviano is called both Avian and Pleif.
Standardisation[edit]
A challenge that Friulian shares with other minorities is to create a standard language and a unique writing system. The regional law 15/1996 approved a standard orthography, which represents the basis of a common variant and should be used in toponyms, official acts, written documents. The standard is based on Central Friulian, which was traditionally the language used in literature already in 1700 and afterwards (the biggest examples are probably Pieri Çorut's works) but with some changes:
the diphthong ie replaces ia: fier (iron) instead of fiar, tiere (soil, earth) instead of tiare.
the use of vu instead of u at the beginning of word: vueli (oil) instead of ueli , vueit (empty) instead of ueit.
the use of i between vocals: ploie (rain) instead of ploe.
Standard Friulian is called in Friulian furlan standard, furlan normalizât or from Greek, coinè.
Criticism[edit]
There have been several critics of the standardisation of Friulian, mainly from speakers of local variants that differ substantially from the proposed standard; they also argue that the standard could eventually kill local variants. The supporters of standardisation refer to the various advantages that a unique form can bring to the language. Above all, it can help to stop the influence of Italian language in the neologisms, which pose a serious threat to Friulian's future development. They also point out that it is a written standard without affecting pronunciation, which can follow local variants.
Opponents of the standardisation, on the other hand, insist that the standard language, being artificially created, is totally inadequate to represent the local variations, particularly from differences in the phonetic pronunciation of the words in each variant that may, in some cases, even require special and different diacritics for writing a single variant.
Variants of Friulian[edit]
Four dialects of Friulian can be at least distinguished, all mutually intelligible. They are usually distinguished by the last vowel of many parts of speech (including nouns, adjectives, adverbs), following this scheme:
Central Friulian, spoken around Udine has words ending with -e. It is used in official documents and generally considered standard. Some people see it as the least original but one of the most recent variants since it does not show interesting features found in other variants, as it has Venetian influence.
Northern Friulian, spoken in Carnia, has several variants. The language can vary with the valleys and words can end in -o, -e or -a. It is the most archaic variant.
Southeastern Friulian, spoken in Bassa Friulana and Eastern Friuli, in the area along the Isonzo River (the area of the old Contea di Gorizia e Gradisca), has words that end with -a. This variant has been known since the origins of the language and was used as official literary language by the Friulians of the Austrian Empire. It was influenced by German and Slavic.
Western Friulian, including Pordenonese, is spoken in the Province of Pordenone and is also called concordiese, from Concordia Sagittaria. Words end with -a or -e, but the strong Venetian influence, makes it be considered one of the most corrupted variants.
The word for home is cjase in Central Friulian and cjasa or cjaso in other areas. Pier Paolo Pasolini wrote his works in Western Friulian since he learned the language from his mother who was from Casarsa/Cjasarsa,[15] near Pordenone.
In the 13th century, early literary works in Friulian were based on the language spoken in Cividale del Friuli, which was the most important town in Friuli. The endings in -o, which now is restricted to some villages in Carnia. Later, the main city of Friuli became Udine and the most common ending was -a; only from the 16th century on, -e endings were used in standard Friulian.
Writing systems[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (July 2012)
Sign of the Universitât dâl Friûl in Udine
In the official writing system, approved by the (former, abolished in 2017) Province of Udine and used in official documents, Friulian is written using the Latin script with the c-cedilla (ç). The letter q is used only for personal names and historical toponyms, and in every other case, it is replaced by c. Besides that, k, x, w, and y appear only in loan words so they are not considered part of the alphabet.
Aa Bb Cc Çç Dd Ee Ff Gg Hh Ii Jj Ll Mm Nn Oo Pp Qq Rr Ss Tt Uu Vv Zz
There are also grave accents (à, è, ì, ò and ù) and circumflex accents (â, ê, î, ô, and û), which are put above the vowels to distinguish between homophonic words or to show stress (the former) and show long vowels (the latter).
Other systems[edit]
An alternative system is called Faggin-Nazzi from the names of the scholars who proposed it. It is less common, probably also because it is more difficult for a beginner for its use of letters, such as č, that are typical of Slavic languages but seem foreign to native Italian speakers.
Examples[edit]
Examples
English
Friulian
Hello; my name is Jack!
Mandi; jo mi clami Jâck!
The weather is really hot today!
Vuê al è propit cjalt!
I really have to go now; see you.
O scugni propit lâ cumò; ariviodisi.
I can't go out with you tonight; I have to study.
No pues vignî fûr cun te usgnot; o ai di studiâ.
The Fox and the Crow translation in Central Friulian[edit]
La bolp e jere di gnûf famade. In chel e a viodût un corvat poiât suntun pin, ch'al tigneve un toc di formadi tal bec. "Chel si che mi plasarès!" e a pensât le bolp, e e disè al corvát: "Ce biel che tu sês! Se il to cjant al é biel come il to aspiet, di sigûr tu sês il plui biel di ducj i ucei!
References[edit]
Paola Benincà & Laura Vanelli. Linguistica friulana. Padova: Unipress, 2005.
Paola Benincà & Laura Vanelli. "Friulian", in The Oxford Guide to the Romance Languages, eds. Adam Ledgeway & Martin Maiden. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2016, pp. 139–53.
Franc Fari, ed. Manuâl di lenghistiche furlane. Udine: Forum, 2005.
Giuseppe Francescato. Dialettologia friulana. Udine: Società Filologica Friulana, 1966.
Giovanni Frau. I dialetti del Friuli. Udine: Società Filologica Friulana, 1984.
Sabine Heinemann. Studi di linguistica friulana. Udine: Società Filologica Friulana, 2007.
Carla Marcato. Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Rome–Bari: Laterza, 2001.
Nazzi, Gianni & Deborah Saidero, eds.  Friulan Dictionary: English-Friulan / Friulan-English. Udine: Ent. Friul tal Mond, 2000.
Piera Rizzolati. Elementi di linguistica friulana. Udine: Società Filologica Friulana, 1981.
Paolo Roseano. La pronuncia del friulano standard: proposte, problemi, prospettive, Ce Fastu? LXXXVI, vol. 1 (2010), p. 7–34.
Paolo Roseano. Suddivisione dialettale del friulano, in Manuale di linguistica friulana, eds. S. Heinemann & L. Melchior. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton, 2015, pp. 155–186.
Federico Vicario, ed. Lezioni di lingua e cultura friulana. Udine: Società Filologica Friulana, 2005.
Federico Vicario. Lezioni di linguistica friulana. Udine: Forum, 2005.
"Sociolinguistic Condition". Regional Agency for Friulian Language. Archived from the original on 2019-02-22.
Notations[edit]
The grammar section is based on An introduction to Friulan by R. Pontisso. Some parts are also based loosely on Gramatiche furlane by Fausto Zof, Edizioni Leonardo, Udine 2002.
Footnotes[edit]
^ a b Friulian at Ethnologue (25th ed., 2022) 
^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin; Bank, Sebastian (2022-05-24). "Friulian". Glottolog. Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. Archived from the original on 2022-07-09. Retrieved 2022-10-07.
^ "Aquileia Cristiana". www.regionefvg.com. Archived from the original on 2003-04-05.
^ Ledgeway, Adam; Maiden, Martin (2016). The Oxford Guide to the Romance Languages. Oxford University Press. p. 139. ISBN 9780199677108.
^ Fucilla, Joseph Guerin (1949). Our Italian Surnames. Genealogical Publishing Com. p. 31. ISBN 9780806311876.
^ Pavel Iosad, Final devoicing and vowel lengthening in the north of Italy: A representational approach, Slides, Going Romance 24, December 10th 2010, Universiteit Leiden, Academia Lugduno Batava [1]
^ Miotti, Renzo (2002). "Friulian". Journal of the International Phonetic Association. 32 (2): 242. doi:10.1017/S0025100302001056.
^ a b Prieto, Pilar (1992), "Compensatory Lengthening by Vowel and Consonant Loss in Early Friulian", Catalan Working Papers in Linguistics: 205–244
^ "The Furlan / Friulian Alphabet". www.geocities.ws. Retrieved 17 March 2018.
^ Loporcaro, Michele (2005), "(Too much) synchrony within diachrony? Vowel length in Milanese.", GLOW Phonology Workshop (PDF)
^ Torres-Tamarit, Francesc (2015), "Length and voicing in Friulian and Milanese" (PDF), Natural Language and Linguistic Theory, 33 (4): 1351–1386, doi:10.1007/s11049-014-9271-7, S2CID 170893106
^ In Northern Friuli, el is used instead of il. In Southern and Western Friuli, al is used instead of il. In Northern Friuli, li or las is used instead of lis and le instead of la.
^ Such is the case of FriulIan adjectives deriving from Latin adjectives of the second class.
^ "Language similarity table". slu.edu. Archived from the original on 1 May 2006. Retrieved 17 March 2018.
^ "casarsa_casa Pasolini (Colussi) a Casarsa". pasolini.net. Retrieved 17 March 2018.
External links[edit]
Italy portalLanguages portal
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Friulian language.
 Friulian  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Short video showing bilingual Italian/Friulian road signs
Radio Onde Furlane. Radio in Friulian language.
Grafie uficiâl de lenghe furlane — Agjenzie regjonal pe lenghe furlane (different other language resources) Archived 2011-09-25 at the Wayback Machine
Dante in furlan: [3]
Provincie di Udin-Provincia di Udine: La lingua friulana Archived 2011-03-03 at the Wayback Machine
La Patrie dal Friûl; Magazine and News in Friulian language since 1946
Lenghe.net – Online bilingual magazine in Friulian language (2004–2010)
Online magazine and resources
The juridical defence of Friulian (in English)
Course of Friulian
Friulian Journal of Science – an association to foster the use of Friulian in the scientific world
Fogolâr furlan of Toronto
Fogolâr Furlan of Windsor
Societat Filologjiche Furlane
Centri interdipartimentâl pe ricercje su la culture e la lenghe dal Friûl "Josef Marchet"
Friulian version of Firefox browser
Centri Friûl Lenghe 2000, Online bilingual dictionary (Italian/Friulian) with online tools
Furlan English Dictionary from Webster's Online Dictionary – The Rosetta Edition
C-evo Furlan – a computer game in Friulian
Italian-Friulian Dictionary
Friulian-Italian-Slovenian-German-English-Spanish-French Multilingual Dictionary
Friulian basic lexicon at the Global Lexicostatistical Database
Friulian-English English-Friulian dictionary – uses the Faggin-Nazzi alphabet
vte Languages of ItalyHistorical linguistic minorities: Albanian, Catalan, Croatian, French, Franco-Provençal, Friulian, Germanic, Greek, Ladin, Occitan, Romani, Sardinian, Slovene, WenzhouneseItalo-DalmatianItalian
Regional Italian
Tuscan
Florentine
Central
Central-Northern Latian
Marchigiano
Romanesco
Sabino
Intermediate Southern(Neapolitan)
Beneventano
Barese
Castelmezzanese
Cilentan
Cosentino
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Extreme Southern
Central-Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Other Italo-Dalmatianlanguages
Corsican
Gallurese
Sassarese
SardinianSardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Occitano-RomanceCatalan
Algherese
Occitan
Vivaro-Alpine
Mentonasc
Niçard
Gallo-RomanceFrench
Aostan
Franco-Provençal
Valdôtain
Faetar
Cellese
Gallo-ItalicLigurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Lombard
Western Lombard
Brianzöö dialects
Canzés
Bustocco and Legnanese
Comasco-Lecchese dialects
Comasco
Laghée
Vallassinese
Lecchese
Milanese
Ticinese
Ossolano
Varesino
Southwestern Lombard
Pavese
Novarese
Cremunés
Spasell
Eastern Lombard
Bergamasque
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Other Gallo-Italiclanguages
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Judeo-Italian
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Piedmontese
Venetian[a]Venetian
Fiuman
Triestine
Rhaeto-RomanceRhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Ladin
Cadorino
Fornes
Nones
Italy portalAlbanianArbëresh language
Arbëresh
Vaccarizzo Albanian
South SlavicSlovene
Brda
Gail Valley
Inner Carniolan
Istrian
Karst
Natisone Valley
Resian
Torre Valley
Serbo-Croatian
Slavomolisano
Triestine Serbian
GreekItaliot Greek
Calabrian Greek
Griko
GermanBavarian
Cimbrian
Mòcheno
Southern Bavarian
South Tyrolean
Other German dialects
Austrian German
Walser
Yiddish
Others
Hebrew
Italian Hebrew
Italian Sign Language
Romani
Sinte Romani
Wenzhounese
^ Venetian is either grouped with the rest of the Italo-Dalmatian or the Gallo-Italic languages, depending on the linguist.
vteRhaeto-Romance languagesFriulian
varieties: Central Friulian
Northern Friulian
South-eastern Friulian
Western Friulian
constructed language: Furlan standard
Ladin
varieties: Maréo/Badiot
Gherdëina
Fascian (cazet, moenat, brach)
Ampezan
Fodom
constructed language: Ladin Dolomitan
Romansh
standard language: Rumantsch Grischun
written varieties: Sursilvan
Surmiran
Sutsilvan
Putèr
Vallader
non-written varieties: Bargunsegner
Jauer
Tuatschin
vteRomance languages (classification)Major branches
Eastern
Italo-Western
Italo-Dalmatian
Western
Southern
Eastern
Aromanian
Istro-Romanian
Megleno-Romanian
Romanian
dialects
Banat
Bukovinian
Crișana
Maramureș
Moldavian
Transylvanian
Wallachian
Common Romanian
Italo-DalmatianCentral
Central dialects
Central Marchigiano
Ancona
Fabriano
Macerata
Central−Northern Latian
Romanesco
Sabino
Corsican
Gallurese
Italian
Italo-Australian
Regional Italian
Swiss Italian
Sassarese
Tuscan
Florentine
Southern
Extreme Southern Italian
Central−Southern Calabrian
Salentino
Manduriano
Sicilian
Pantesco
Neapolitan–Calabrese
Neapolitan
Barese
Benevento
Castelmezzano
Cilentan
Irpinian
Arianese
Molisan
Southern Latian
Tarantino
Vastese
Northern Calabrian
Southern Italian Koiné
Others
Dalmatian
Istriot
Judaeo-Italian
WesternGallo-Italic
Emilian-Romagnol
Emilian
Bolognese
Parmigiano
Romagnol
Forlivese
Gallo-Italic of Basilicata
Gallo-Italic of Sicily
Gallo-Picene
Ligurian
Brigasc
Genoese
Intemelio
Monégasque
Royasc
Tabarchino
Judeo-Italian
Lombard
Eastern
Bergamasque
Western
Brianzöö
Canzés
Bustocco–Legnanese
Comasco–Lecchese
Comasco
Laghée
Lecchese
Vallassinese
Milanese
Ossolano
Southwestern
Cremunés
Novarese
Pavese
Ticinese
Varesino
Piedmontese
Judaeo-Piedmontese
Gallo-RomanceLanguesd'oïl
Angevin
Berrichon
Bourbonnais
Burgundian
Champenois
Frainc-Comtou
Gallo
French
Jersey
Meridional
North American dialects
Canadian
Acadian
Chiac
St. Marys Bay French
Brayon
Newfoundland
Quebec
Joual
Magoua
Franco-Ontarian
Métis
Muskrat
New England
Frenchville
Louisiania
Houma
Missouri French
Creoles
Lorrain
Welche
Norman
Anglo-Norman
Augeron
Auregnais
Cauchois
Cotentinais
Guernésiais
Jèrriais
Sercquiais
Orléanais
Picard
Poitevin-Saintongeais
Poitevin
Saintongeais
Walloon
Wisconsin Walloon
Franco-Provençal/Arpitan
Faetar
Savoyard
Valdôtain
Moselle Romance
Ibero-Romance(WestIberian)Asturleonese
Asturian
Western Asturian
Cantabrian
Leonese
Mirandese
Galician-Portuguese
Fala
Galician
Galician-Asturian/Eonavian
Minderico
Portugis
Portuguese
dialects
African
Asian
Brazilian
Mineiro
European
Estremenho
Uruguayan
Creoles
Judaeo-Portuguese
Castilian
Amazonic Spanish
Extremaduran
Judaeo-Spanish
Spanish
dialects
Equatoguinean
Latin American
Peruvian
Peruvian Ribereño
Peninsular
Andalusian
Llanito
Castilian
Castrapo
Castúo
Murcian
Philippine
Saharan
Creoles
Old Spanish
Others
Andalusi Romance
Barranquenho (mixed Portuguese–Spanish)
Caló (mixed Romani–Ibero- and Occitano-Romance)
Navarro-Aragonese
Aragonese
Judaeo-Aragonese
Occitano-Romance
Catalan
dialects
Eastern
Algherese
Balearic
Menorcan
Central
Northern
Judaeo-Catalan
Patuet
Western
Catalan Ribagorçan
Valencian
Occitan
Auvergnat
Gascon
Aranese
Béarnese
Landese
Judeo-Gascon
Judeo-Provençal
Languedocien
Limousin
Provençal
Niçard
Vivaro-Alpine
Gardiol
Mentonasc
Old Occitan
Old Catalan
Rhaeto-Romance
Friulian
Fornes
Ladin
Cadorino
Nones
Romansh
Jauer
Putèr
Surmiran
Sursilvan
Vallader
Others
Mediterranean Lingua Franca (Western Romance-based pidgin)
Venetian (unknown further classification)
Chipilo
Fiuman
Talian
Triestine
Others
African Romance
British Latin
Pannonian Romance
Sardinian
Campidanese
Logudorese
Reconstructed
Proto-Romance
Italics indicate extinct languages
Bold indicates languages with more than 5 million speakers
Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left.
Authority control National
France
BnF data
Germany
Israel
United States
Czech Republic
Other
Lexicon Istoric Retic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Friulian_language&oldid=1172948050"
Categories: Friulian languageLanguages of ItalyHidden categories: Pages that use PhonosLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 25Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles containing Friulian-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeArticles containing Italian-language textArticles containing Austrian German-language textArticles containing Slovene-language textArticles to be expanded from May 2018Articles to be expanded from July 2012All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2019Commons category link is on WikidataWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with GND identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NKC identifiersArticles with LIR identifiers
 This page was last edited on 30 August 2023, at 09:58 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width