Samuel Bendeck Sotillos - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Samuel Bendeck SotillosSophia perennis+1193Samuel Bendeck Sotillos, PsyD, LMFT, LPCC, CCMHC, NCC, CPRP, CCTP, MHRS, is a practicing psychotherapist who has worked for many years in the field of mental health and social services. His focus is on comparative religion and the intersection between culture, spirituality, and psychology. His works include "The Quest For Who We Are: Modern Psychology and the Sacred" (2023), "Paths That Lead to the Same Summit: An Annotated Guide to World Spirituality" (2020), "Dismantling Freud: Fake Therapy and the Psychoanalytic Worldview" (2020), and "Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a Soul" (2017). He edited the volume, "Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy" (2013), and his articles have appeared in numerous journals and periodicals. He lives on the Central Coast of California.less1,903 Followers90 Following3 Co-authorsTotal Views ;138 Public MentionsFollowFollowingWebsiteall6 Books48 Papers16 Interviews100 Book Reviews 15 Reviews of His WorkBooksThe Quest For Who We Are: Modern Psychology and the SacredFons Vitae,  2023Psychology today is in a state of confusion. It has failed to understand our true human identity ... more Psychology today is in a state of confusion. It has failed to understand our true human identity and to provide a satisfactory answer to the perennial question: “Who AM I?”. The scope of present-day mental health treatment has been reduced to purely profane considerations, ignoring the fullness of what it means to be human, and neglecting the sacred dimension of life altogether. Due to mainstream psychology’s rejection of its metaphysical roots, our relationship with other sentient beings and the natural world has been fractured, which has brought devastating consequences to our lives. In the interest of developing more holistic modes of therapeutic treatment, we need to restore the traditional notion of a “science of the soul” as it has been known since the earliest times across the diverse spiritual cultures of humanity.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Dismantling Freud: Fake Therapy and the Psychoanalytic WorldviewAngelico Press,  2020Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, remains also ... more Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, remains also one of its most controversial. Far from being an outmoded icon of modern psychology’s early historical development, Freud’s doctrines (the “talking cure” in particular) have irrevocably shaped the way human behavior is understood today. Psychoanalysis has waged an assault on traditional conceptions of human nature by eclipsing everything of a transcendent order—even branding religion itself a kind of psychopathology. The corrosion of religion and spirituality in our human collectivity has left an epistemological and ontological vacuum that has been largely been filled by psychoanalysis and its off-shoots, as also the welter of psycho-babel we encounter at every turn. Psychoanalysis, like behavioristic psychology, has not died or disappeared, as is too often assumed—on the contrary, it forms the very substratum upon which all contemporary therapies are formulated. The consequences for Western civilization have been destructive and far-reaching, as this masterful study—nay, dissection and diagnosis—of the disease makes blisteringly clear.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Paths That Lead to the Same Summit: An Annotated Guide to World SpiritualityThe Matheson Trust,  2020This book is at first sight a selection of reviews spanning many years, including some fundamenta... more This book is at first sight a selection of reviews spanning many years, including some fundamental well-known works and some rare gems of world religions, their spirituality and mysticism, touching on theology, ecology and art; as such, it is useful and interesting in itself, not least because the selection of titles under review follows rigorous criteria. But this collection is also much more than its description implies, for the objective and informative aspect of every chapter is inseparable from an intimate aspect, a recurrent invitation to tread the Path within every path. It is written from first-hand acquaintance and from study, but also from passion and certainty. The concrete and diverse examples shed light on the key to solve the religious puzzle of our times: that is, they delineate an integral framework, that of Perennial Wisdom, the Sophia Perennis as understood in the Traditionalist School, which allows both for religious diversity and for religious unity. The voices of tradition are all, and have to be, different, and yet they are of a compelling unanimity on the essentials. Samuel Bendeck Sotillos draws our attention generously to these voices and this One Voice. Some endorsements for "Paths That Lead to the Same Summit: An Annotated Guide to World Spirituality": "Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is a professional book reviewer—all done as a labor of love. In these reviews, he demonstrates his wide knowledge of the world's religions and their mystical dimension along with their respective saints and sages. It is a book that will broaden the intellectual horizon of the reader."—William Stoddart, author of Remembering in a World of Forgetting: Thoughts on Tradition and Postmodernism "Given the fleeting nature of our sojourn on this earth, it is imperative that we use our time wisely. This work is an aid to making wise choices. Focused throughout on the essentials of the spiritual journey, it assists the wayfarer in navigating the often confusing topography of the terrain that lies ahead by distinguishing truly salvific paths—those which lead toward the One or the Absolute, the goal of all orthodox religions—from the useless, the bogus, and the outright dangerous. I recommend this book to everyone whose heart yearns for the True and the Real."—James S. Cutsinger, author of Advice to the Serious Seeker: Meditations on the Teaching of Frithjof Schuon    "[A]n excellent annotated bibliography for the whole field of perennial wisdom."—Robert D. Crane, author of Shaping the Future: Challenge and Response "[T]his book can serve as a primer to the field across multiple religious and spiritual traditions.... We urgently need a metaphysical ... reorientation ... that underlie the approach of this book."—Paradigm ExplorerSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian QuandaryThe Institute of Traditional Psychology (Kazi Publications), 2018Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, is also one o... more Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, is also one of its most controversial. Far from being an outmoded icon of the early formation of modern psychology's historical development, the Freudian doctrine of the "talking cure" has irrevocably shaped the ways in which human beings and human behavior are understood today. Freudian thought has infiltrated the inner recesses of the collective consciousness and the lexicon of psychology. Psychoanalysis has waged an assault on traditional conceptions of the human experience by eclipsing everything of a transcendent order and branding religion itself as a kind of psychopathology. The corrosion of religion and spirituality in the lives of the human collectivity has left an epistemological and ontological vacuum which has been largely filled by psychoanalysis and its off-shoots. Psychoanalysis, like behavioristic psychology, has not died or disappeared, as is often assumed, for the shibboleths of psychoanalysis and behaviorism form the very substratum upon which all contemporary therapies are formulated. The consequences for Western civilization have been destructive and far-reaching.ContentsIntroduction: Sigmund Freud and the Emergence of the Modern World Chapter 1: The Psychoanalytic Revolution: The Succession to the Copernican and Darwinian Revolutions Chapter 2: Psychoanalysis, the Loss of Faith, and the Signs of the Times Chapter 3: The Secret Inner Circle of the Psychoanalytic Movement Chapter 4: The Censoring and Mythologizing of Psychoanalytic History Chapter 5: The Deification of Freud and the Birth of the Freudian Myth of the Hero Chapter 6: The Making of Psychological Man: From Imago Dei to Homo Naturalis Chapter 7: Psychologism: The Reduction of Reality to Psychological Criteria Chapter 8: Freudianism: The Counter-Religion to Replace Sacred Tradition Chapter 9: From Metaphysics to MetapsychologyChapter 10: The Freudian Colonization of the Human Psyche: Id, Ego, and Super-Ego Chapter 11: The "Oceanic Feeling": Mysticism versus RegressionChapter 12: The Eclipse of the Sacred and the Rise of Psychopathology Chapter 13: The Couch and the ConfessionalChapter 14: The Satanic Pact and the Psychologizing of EvilChapter 15: The Ethical Void and the Crisis of the Super-EgoChapter 16: Freud and the Question of Jewish IdentityChapter 17: Anti-Semitism and the Vengeance on ChristianityChapter 18: Psychoanalysis and the Heretical Jewish Messianic MovementsChapter 19: Psychoanalysis as Pseudo-ScienceChapter 20: Psychoanalysis and Its Discontents: Corrosive Ideology and Debunked Case HistoriesChapter 21: Freud on the Psychoanalytic Couch: A Case History of Unfinished Self-AnalysisChapter 22: Freud's Cocaine EpisodeChapter 23: Childhood Sexual Abuse and the Betrayal of TruthChapter 24: Freud, Eros, and the Sexual RevolutionChapter 25: The Neo- and Post-Freudian Revolution: Apologists, Heretics, and RevisionistsConclusion: Founder of the Greatest Revolution in Psychology or "the Greatest Con Man in the History of Medicine"?Some Endorsements for Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary:“This valuable and timely work [Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary] lays bare the demonic nature of Freudianism which went even beyond the realm of psychoanalysis to become an all-embracing world view that has played an important role in the dissolution of the spiritual elements of today's world. The author [Samuel Bendeck Sotillos] casts light upon many of the dark and pernicious elements of this anti-traditional pseudo-science and is to be commended for his penetrating analysis.”—Seyyed Hossein Nasr, University Professor of Islamic Studies at George Washington University, author of The Need for a Sacred Science and Knowledge and the Sacred “Samuel Bendeck Sotillos takes us beyond the familiar image to Freud himself. Calling in part upon primary documents rarely seen, he offers us a glimpse of the man: of what—or who!—is driving him. Given the fact that Freud has left an indelible imprint upon our contemporary postmodern civilization, this treatise can hardly fail to be of profound interest to everyone yet capable of serious and critical thought.”—Wolfgang Smith, Founder of the Philos-Sophia Initiative Foundation, author of Cosmos and Transcendence and The Quantum Enigma: Finding the Hidden Key “Samuel Bendeck Sotillos, informed by a deep understanding of traditional modes of thought and drawing on prodigious research, develops a searching critique of the very foundations of modern psychoanalysis and exposes the ways in which this totalitarian pseudo-science is symptomatic of the profane worldview which is at the root of our contemporary spiritual crisis. This is a penetrating study of wide-ranging significance and the most urgent relevance.”—Harry Oldmeadow, former Coordinator of Philosophy and Religious Studies at La Trobe University, Bendigo, author of Journeys East: 20th Century Western Encounters with Eastern Religious Traditions and Touchstones of the Spirit: Essays on Religion, Tradition and Modernity“This book [Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary] places Freud s doctrines in their true meaning, which we never do. As this author [Samuel Bendeck Sotillos] shows with lucidity and depth, what is in question in this book is the destiny of the human being, a destiny that would be urgent to realize, because there is only freedom in and through the Spirit; instead of this, Freud, under the guise of liberating the human being, trapped him into the determinism of the unconscious, that is to say, the most inferior impulses of our soul. In some respects, it is a work of public safety.” —Jean Borella, retired Professor at the University of Nancy II, author of The Crisis of Religious Symbolism & Symbolism and Reality and The Sense of the SupernaturalSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a SoulThe Institute of Traditional Psychology (Kazi Publications),  2017Over a hundred years have passed since the birth of behaviorism or behavioristic psychology, ofte... more Over a hundred years have passed since the birth of behaviorism or behavioristic psychology, often regarded as the "first force" in contemporary psychology. Many might assume that "the dark night of behaviorism" has subsided once and for all, especially since the behavioristic paradigm has been superseded by the cognitive revolution and other developments, such as psychoanalysis ("second force"), humanistic psychology ("third force") and transpersonal psychology ("fourth force"). However, this assumption would be incorrect as it initiated one of the most powerful currents of modern psychology in the twentieth century. Thus it launched an assault on the human microcosm by decisively abolishing, if not radically trivializing, the role of the psyche or soul and the spiritual dimension in an unparalleled fashion. Although less known, this destructive paradigm was perhaps even more influential than psychoanalysis that predates its existence but did not emerge into a movement in America until later on, nonetheless behaviorism has had an irrevocable impact on the way that the human psyche was universally understood across the diverse cultures prior to the advent of modernism and the development of modern psychology.Some Endorsements for Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a Soul:“This very concise, compact, and thoughtful book offers an important reflection on the challenges and downside of behaviorism and the bias behind this influential perspective in psychology and the mental health field in general. It also highlights how psychology in an attempt to be empirical and scientific pushed spirituality and religion off to the side consequences that are still felt in the field today. Worth a read for those with interest in this important area.” —Thomas G. Plante, Ph.D., ABPP is the Augustin Cardinal Bea, S.J. University Professor at Santa Clara University and adjunct clinical professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford University School of Medicine. He is the author of Contemplative Practices in Action: Spirituality, Meditation, and Health“This book critiques behaviorism from both a philosophical and practical perspective. Its unique contribution, in my view, is its inclusion of many direct quotations from the literature which show, in devastating fashion, what happens when psychology is based on mechanistic assumptions and attempts to exclude, the ‘inner life’ of human beings, including the soul. Samuel Bendeck Sotillos does an excellent job of showing how original behaviorism took away almost everything that makes us human and how that dark legacy continues to permeate modern psychology. The book is an excellent reflection on the foundations of modern psychology.” —David N. Elkins, Ph.D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Pepperdine University, author of The Human Elements of Psychotherapy, Past President of Division 32, Society for Humanistic Psychology, American Psychological Association   “This is a brief, succinct exposition of Behaviorism, a psychology created by an American John Watson in the early 20th Century which has had a profound impact on Western thinking and has now become increasingly influential right through out the world to the extent that it is no longer questioned. India is one of the few cultures left which actively affirms the transcendental nature of reality and in the coming decades we shall see behaviorism and its adjunct consumerism threaten the sacred tenets of the sanātana dharma. The author analyses this school of psychology in the light of the perennial philosophy. There are ‘four forces’ in psychology today namely, behaviorism, psychoanalysis, humanistic and transpersonal. Though behaviorism has been supplanted it nevertheless influences modern thought with its reductionist thinking. It is based on two suppositions: scientism which denies anything that cannot be verified by the five senses and psychologism which reduces an understanding of what is reality to psychological criteria. Mechanized man is reduced to numbers, uniformity, and in distinction from the ‘masses’. Our worth is according to financial currency which is the modern day criterion of what is valuable. It is the triumph of quantity over quality. Guénon called it the ‘Reign of Quantity’ and denotes the degeneration of human values and negates the opportunity of divinity, for Behaviorism denies the reality of the soul and states that humankind is simply a machine that responds to positive and negative stimuli. The behaviorist denies that there is anything more to a human being than behavior. The traditionalist affirms that the human being has a soul who participates in the Divine and has an inherent essence which can transcend the limitations of the human body and mind.  The author has with profuse citations delved into this malaise and the influence it holds on the modern mind. Though it would mainly interest those in the field of psychology, for the general reader this is a sobering and intelligent exposé.” —The Mountain Path journalSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative ReligionStudies in Comparative Religion (World Wisdom),  2013In order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is ... more In order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is anxiously seeking to find new therapies to address the increasing disorders within the human psyche. In the process new fields of research, such as humanistic and transpersonal psychology, curiously appear to borrow more and more from the wisdom of the ages. This volume, containing eighteen articles by noteworthy expositors of the perennial philosophy such as Huston Smith, Seyyed Hossein Nasr, and Frithjof Schuon, presents the spiritual psychology of the wisdom traditions as a much-needed antidote to the current impasse in modern psychology.Some Endorsements for Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy:“[Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy] is more than an anthology. It is a wisely crafted collection of classic and contemporary scholarship noting that what many are seeking is what has always been, a perennial philosophy, that remains foundational. As one of the authors, Tage Lindbom, properly notes, ‘Secularization is a fish in troubled waters.’ This book claims the waters and is essential reading for all those who may have forgotten or are simply ignorant of the rich foundation provided by the perennial philosophy.”—Ralph W. Hood, Professor of Psychology at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, past president of the Psychology of Religion division of the American Psychological Association, co-founder of The International Journal for the Psychology of Religion and co-author of The Psychology of Religion“A necessary and bracing critique of the assumptions and limitations of contemporary Western psychology, this generous volume is also a passionate call and learned guide towards a truer perspective that embraces man's spiritual nature.”—Gabor Maté, M.D., and author of In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts: Close Encounters with Addiction “Knowing the nature of the mind is perhaps the most difficult undertaking, especially in today’s world. To comprehend the nature of mind one needs to turn to the domain of religion and spirituality. Yet the truth of the mind and its complexity cannot explicitly be defined in words. Inner or transcendent wisdom sees the mind’s own nature without the duality of the seer. Suchness (tathatā) of mind is only experiential and not expressible. The words used to describe thought are themselves a product of thought, which is conditioned and limited. Thus, differences and contradictions are unavoidable. Therefore, a comparative study of different viewpoints and commentaries is immensely important to awaken the inner intelligence to see the mind as it is. Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative Religion edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is an outstanding effort in this direction.”—Samdhong Rinpoche, former Prime Minister (Kalon Tripa) of the Tibetan Government-in-exile, author of Uncompromising Truth for a Compromised World: Tibetan Buddhism and Today’s World “The rise of psychology has impacted the study and practice of spirituality, the experiences and attitudes relevant to ultimate human values that transcend ordinary behavior. Each chapter of this remarkable book demonstrates this interaction in a unique and provocative way. But rather than using psychology to reduce and ‘psychologize’ spiritual topics, its authors demonstrate how directives from the spiritual traditions can enhance and even illuminate the enduring importance of psychology in the 21st century.”—Stanley Krippner, Saybrook University, co-author of Spiritual Dimensions of Healing “The work at hand is a thinking and debating man’s delight. If you have any interest at all in attempting to include an educated and enlightened view of man’s higher functions in your purview of the world, you will learn from and enjoy this collection of essays. If you already have some knowledge in this area, brace yourself: you may see some of your favorites sharply criticized. A thought-provoking work.”—Bruce W. Scotton, University of California, San Francisco, co-editor of Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology “This book, superbly edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos, is a masterful critique of the field of psychology and its loss of the sacred ground in which it once was rooted. It offers depth psychologists an opportunity to contemplate timeless truths echoed through the centuries by perennial philosophers who have always claimed psyche is subordinate to Spirit. Although ignored in depth psychology’s early years due to prejudice and lack of understanding, this is a message today’s psychotherapists must take seriously. Human beings need a deeper and wider transpersonal vision of who and what we are, which the saints and sages of the world’s spiritual traditions have always pointed to. In psychotherapy with a therapist committed to such a vision, patients penetrate into their unconscious depths and not infrequently awaken to the Ground of all Being. Their suffering itself occurred because they had turned away from Spirit. Above all, this volume passionately calls upon depth psychology to remember its origin in the perennial wisdom at the core of the great religions. There is something of a polemic in these pages. It deserves to be considered by depth psychologists of all persuasions.” —Bryan Wittine, Transpersonal psychologist and Jungian psychoanalyst “This anthology from Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is a must reference for anyone who is interested in psychology and its relationship to spirituality, and in developing an inclusive dialogue between disciplines that favor an integral outlook on the person and his or her potential. Selections in this anthology will inspire us to reexamine the metaphysical underpinnings of psychology, and remind us how important it is to rise above science’s attempt to reduce the human being to an epistemic object.”—Sangeetha Menon, National Institute of Advanced Studies (Bangalore, India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Beyond Experience: Consciousness in Bhagavad Gita “This anthology has some of the most discerning essays and reviews on spirituality and psychology, which provide much-needed care and caution to all those engaged in bringing them together or who wish to do so in future. Therefore, it is a must-read for all those who teach, research, consult, or study in such frontier areas as transpersonal psychology, states of consciousness, mind-body relation, holistic health, Indian psychology, and so on. It will be an invaluable textbook for courses in these and other related areas. I congratulate the editor of the book.”—Kiran Kumar K. Salagame, University of Mysore (India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Psychology of Meditation: A Contextual Approach “One of the finest collections of essays on the Perennial Philosophy—a must-read for all psychologists who are engaged with spirituality and transpersonal psychology. The essays which critique modern psychology (including transpersonal psychology, and the framework of Carl Jung), in the light of the Perennial Philosophy are a revelation and make compelling reading. The book serves as a corrective to the excesses of modern psychology, and to this end Sotillos has done a commendable job. I for one will include the book in some of the graduate courses that I teach.”—Suneet Varma, University of Delhi, co-editor of Foundations of Indian Psychology “To its credit modern science by-and-large is becoming more cognizant of the essential connection between spirituality and psychological health and well-being and most of all its positive implications within the field of psychology. While there is ample data to document this in a plethora of academic journals and books, this new book Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy adds a novel contribution to the dialogue between psychology and spirituality, which captures many nuances that for the most part go unnoticed within these discussions, and last but not least, it provides a keen eye of discernment to understand this intricate relationship on a deeper level that is crucially needed. This work will be a valuable asset to students and long term mental health practitioners and professors alike who seek to better understand the relationship between psychology and spirituality.”—Harold G. Koenig, Duke University, Director of the Center for Spirituality, Theology and Health, co-author of The Handbook of Religion and HealthSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
PapersRealms of Consciousness and the RealSpirituality StudiesIn our post-Enlightenment world, reality has been reduced to only that which can be known through... more In our post-Enlightenment world, reality has been reduced to only that which can be known through the faculty of reason, or empirically verified by the five senses; all higher levels of knowing have virtually been banished. Current approaches to psychotherapy have failed to discern that, without a proper understanding of the mind in all its dimensions, any discussion about effective mental health is not even possible. This paper seeks to demonstrate that certain pernicious limitations in modern Western psychology today have served to distort our understanding of consciousness. This, in turn, has undermined our ability to deliver efficacious mental health treatment, where every dimension of a human being is taken into account.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
MPatLoT (forthcoming)Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
TDotP (forthcoming)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Jewish Tradition and its Science of the Soul (pre-press)Journal of Comparative Literature and AestheticsIn the post-enlightenment world, it is often overlooked that the world’s spiritual traditions pos... more In the post-enlightenment world, it is often overlooked that the world’s spiritual traditions possess a complete psychology or “science of the soul.” This understanding is the very antithesis of the desacralized and reductionistic outlook found in modern Western psychology. The Jewish faith embraces a more integrated understanding of who we are. Its rich mystical tradition clearly speaks to the fullness of what it means to be human. Although modern psychology is in quest of more holistic treatment modalities – seeking, albeit superficially, to draw upon humanity’s sacred wisdom – these attempts cannot remedy the foundational problem, which is the flawed ontological basis of the discipline itself.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Inner and Outer Human BeingThe Mountain Path The seeds sown by the Renaissance, and the Scientific Revolution culminated in the Enlightenment ... more The seeds sown by the Renaissance, and the Scientific Revolution culminated in the Enlightenment project. This contributed to a deracinated psychology that has rendered human beings one-dimensional. The bifurcation of the inner and outer facets of the person has produced a fissure in consciousness, thus divorcing the soul from its transpersonal center. Furthermore, the denial of our tripartite nature as Spirit, soul, and body has proven profoundly traumatic to the psyche. To heal this scission, there is an urgent need to return to a metaphysical framework that integrates diverse modes of knowing and healing, with a view to gaining a deeper understanding of mental health. Without an ontological foundation rooted in the spiritual traditions of humanity, the quest for an effective “science of the soul” that can cure the ills of the spirit will remain elusive.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
In Memoriam: Marty Glass (1938–2022), Loving the Dreamer who is Dreaming UsSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Metaphysics of TraumaTranscendent Philosophy: An International Journal for Comparative Philosophy and MysticismTrauma, which has become a hallmark of everyday life in the modern world, forms part of the broad... more Trauma, which has become a hallmark of everyday life in the modern world, forms part of the broader mental health crisis that afflicts society today. It also, arguably, reflects a lost sense of the sacred. Throughout humanity’s diverse cultures, suffering is understood to be intrinsic to the larger fabric of life in this world; trauma, therefore, is a direct consequence of not being able to properly integrate suffering into one’s life. However, this is not to simply equate suffering with trauma, or trauma with illness. The prevalence of acute traumatic suffering has always been a major cause of disbelief in religion. Yet the increased weakening of faith in the modern world has provoked a particularly severe spiritual crisis, which could be dubbed the “trauma of secularism.” Through recourse to traditional metaphysics, we can begin to understand the transpersonal dimension of this phenomenon and thus accurately assess, diagnose and provide adequate treatment. It will be argued that healing and wholeness cannot take place outside the purview of a “sacred science,” the spiritual dimension of which transcends the limitations of mainstream psychology and its profusion of profane therapies.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Eclipse of the Soul and the Rise of the Ecological CrisisSpirituality StudiesFor many of our contemporaries, there is no more pressing issue than the acute ecological challen... more For many of our contemporaries, there is no more pressing issue than the acute ecological challenges facing the planet. Environmental degradation has reached a tipping point, but how have we fallen into such a predicament? At a deeper level, this critical situation can be seen as a mirror that reflects the spiritual crisis gripping the soul of humanity today. This commenced with the secularizing impetus of the Enlightenment project, which has led to a diminished understanding of the human psyche and the cosmos itself. The anomaly of modern Western psychology is that it stems from the same desacralized and reductionistic outlook. By contrast, a deep-seated connection between sentient beings, the environment, and the Spirit has been recognized in all other times and places, throughout humanity’s traditional civilizations. By a resurrection of a “science of the soul” via a rehabilitated sacred cosmology, the spiritual roots of the ecological crisis can be restored and seen in a proper light. This essay examines the metaphysical dimension of the environmental crisis. The framework employed for this study is the “transpersonal” perspective of the perennial psychology—an application of the insights found in the world’s great wisdom traditions. The objective of the study is to propose a more holistic approach to understanding the essential relationship between our humanity and the natural environment—in all of its boundless and complex variety—seen as a manifestation of divine reality.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Ruh Tutulması ve Ekolojik Krizin Yükselişi (Turkish)Çağdaşlarımızın çoğu için, gezegenin karşı karşıya olduğu akut ekolojik sorunlardan daha acil bir... more Çağdaşlarımızın çoğu için, gezegenin karşı karşıya olduğu akut ekolojik sorunlardan daha acil bir sorun yoktur. Çevresel bozulma bir devrilme noktasına ulaştı, ancak nasıl böyle bir çıkmaza düştük? Daha derin bir düzeyde, bu kritik durum, bugün insanlığın ruhunu yakalayan ruhsal krizi yansıtan bir ayna olarak görülebilir. Bu, insan ruhunun ve kozmosun kendisinin daha az anlaşılmasına yol açan Aydınlanma projesinin dünyevileştirici itici gücüyle başladı. Modern Batı psikolojisinin anomalisi, aynı kutsallıktan arındırılmış ve indirgemeci bakış açısına sahip olmasıdır. Buna karşılık, insanlığın geleneksel uygarlıkları boyunca, diğer tüm zamanlarda ve yerlerde, hissedebilir varlıklarla, çevre ve Ruh arasındaki köklü bir bağlantı kabul edilmiştir. Rehabilite edilmiş bir kutsal kozmoloji aracılığıyla bir “ruhun bilimi”nin yeniden dirilişiyle, ekolojik krizin ruhsal kökleri restore edilebilir ve uygun bir ışık altında görülebilir. Bu makale çevresel krizin metafizik boyutunu incelemektedir. Bu çalışma için kullanılan çerçeve, dünyanın büyük bilgelik geleneklerinde bulunan içgörülerin bir uygulaması olan ezeli psikolojinin kişi-ötesi perspektifidir. Çalışmanın amacı, insanlığımız ile doğal çevre arasındaki temel ilişkiye -tüm sınırsız ve karmaşık çeşitliliğiyle- ilahi gerçekliğin bir tezahürü olarak görülen daha bütünsel bir yaklaşım önermektir.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Recovering the Eye of the HeartThe Mountain PathThe "Eye of the Heart" is the faculty by which we can apprehend spiritual reality. Due to modern ... more The "Eye of the Heart" is the faculty by which we can apprehend spiritual reality. Due to modern Western psychology’s rejection of its metaphysical roots, this potential has been largely eclipsed in us. This has fractured our relationship with the natural world and other sentient beings, causing a host of mental health challenges to arise. This, in turn, has led to a failure to adequately diagnose and properly treat these maladies that have so grievously afflicted our communities.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Decolonization of Psychology or the Science of the SoulSpirituality StudiesSince the inception of psychology as a distinct field of study in the modern West, it has been wi... more Since the inception of psychology as a distinct field of study in the modern West, it has been widely regarded as the only valid form of this discipline, supplanting all other accounts of the mind and human behavior. The modern West is unique in having produced the only psychology that consciously severed itself from metaphysics and spiritual principles. The momentous intellectual revolutions inaugurated by the Renaissance and the European Enlightenment further entrenched the prejudices of its purely secular and reductionist approach. Yet, across the diverse cultures of the world, we find spiritual traditions that embrace a fully-integrated psychology, unsullied by the limitations of the modern scientific method. It is only by grounding psychology on a foundation of sacred and universal truths—found in all traditional civilizations—that we can begin to restore a true “science of the soul” that addresses the entire gamut of human needs and possibilities.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Human Birth as TheophanySacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernityThe significance of the gift and responsibility of a human birth is often not sufficiently apprec... more The significance of the gift and responsibility of a human birth is often not sufficiently appreciated in the modern world. In traditional thought, birth in this world expresses the mystery of manifestation and the human condition. According to the adage, an ‘unexamined life is not worth living,’ this essay reflects on the importance of authentic self‐knowledge in order to understand the meaning and purpose of our existence. Seeking to counter secular narratives that prevail today regarding what it means to be human, it considers how the world’s spiritual traditions view birth as a divine disclosure which is the basis for a true "science of the soul."Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Addiction and the Quest for WholenessSpirituality Studies The global rise of addictions in the modern world is alarming. What the discipline of modern West... more The global rise of addictions in the modern world is alarming. What the discipline of modern Western psychology fails to recognize is the connection between the loss of a sense of the sacred and the rise in addiction and mental illness. Due to the spiritual desolation prevalent in the present day and its traumatizing effects, the human search for wholeness and healing is all too often diverted into destructive and dysfunctional behaviors. It is only a spiritual approach to the science of the soul that allows psychology to restore the categories of Spirit, soul, and body, along with their corresponding degrees of reality. This paper examines the root causes of addiction in order to better understand the collective search for wholeness and healing. The framework employed for this study is the perennial psychology—an application of the universal wisdom found in humanity’s spiritual patrimony to the proper understanding of this burgeoning crisis. The objective of the study is to propose a more integrative approach to assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of addiction.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Transfiguration of the Human BeingTemenos Academy ReviewIn the teachings of many world religions, one often finds the injunction to die before you die. T... more In the teachings of many world religions, one often finds the injunction to die before you die. This refers to a psycho-spiritual process made possible through a traditional “science of the soul” which confers purification, illumination, and spiritual reintegration. This ‘alchemical’ transformation serves to provide true healing, and to restore the wholeness of our primordial nature as human beings.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Quest For Who We Are: Modern Psychology and the SacredFons Vitae,  2023Psychology today is in a state of confusion. It has failed to understand our true human identity ... more Psychology today is in a state of confusion. It has failed to understand our true human identity and to provide a satisfactory answer to the perennial question: “Who AM I?”. The scope of present-day mental health treatment has been reduced to purely profane considerations, ignoring the fullness of what it means to be human, and neglecting the sacred dimension of life altogether. Due to mainstream psychology’s rejection of its metaphysical roots, our relationship with other sentient beings and the natural world has been fractured, which has brought devastating consequences to our lives. In the interest of developing more holistic modes of therapeutic treatment, we need to restore the traditional notion of a “science of the soul” as it has been known since the earliest times across the diverse spiritual cultures of humanity.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Dismantling Freud: Fake Therapy and the Psychoanalytic WorldviewAngelico Press,  2020Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, remains also ... more Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, remains also one of its most controversial. Far from being an outmoded icon of modern psychology’s early historical development, Freud’s doctrines (the “talking cure” in particular) have irrevocably shaped the way human behavior is understood today. Psychoanalysis has waged an assault on traditional conceptions of human nature by eclipsing everything of a transcendent order—even branding religion itself a kind of psychopathology. The corrosion of religion and spirituality in our human collectivity has left an epistemological and ontological vacuum that has been largely been filled by psychoanalysis and its off-shoots, as also the welter of psycho-babel we encounter at every turn. Psychoanalysis, like behavioristic psychology, has not died or disappeared, as is too often assumed—on the contrary, it forms the very substratum upon which all contemporary therapies are formulated. The consequences for Western civilization have been destructive and far-reaching, as this masterful study—nay, dissection and diagnosis—of the disease makes blisteringly clear.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Paths That Lead to the Same Summit: An Annotated Guide to World SpiritualityThe Matheson Trust,  2020This book is at first sight a selection of reviews spanning many years, including some fundamenta... more This book is at first sight a selection of reviews spanning many years, including some fundamental well-known works and some rare gems of world religions, their spirituality and mysticism, touching on theology, ecology and art; as such, it is useful and interesting in itself, not least because the selection of titles under review follows rigorous criteria. But this collection is also much more than its description implies, for the objective and informative aspect of every chapter is inseparable from an intimate aspect, a recurrent invitation to tread the Path within every path. It is written from first-hand acquaintance and from study, but also from passion and certainty. The concrete and diverse examples shed light on the key to solve the religious puzzle of our times: that is, they delineate an integral framework, that of Perennial Wisdom, the Sophia Perennis as understood in the Traditionalist School, which allows both for religious diversity and for religious unity. The voices of tradition are all, and have to be, different, and yet they are of a compelling unanimity on the essentials. Samuel Bendeck Sotillos draws our attention generously to these voices and this One Voice. Some endorsements for "Paths That Lead to the Same Summit: An Annotated Guide to World Spirituality": "Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is a professional book reviewer—all done as a labor of love. In these reviews, he demonstrates his wide knowledge of the world's religions and their mystical dimension along with their respective saints and sages. It is a book that will broaden the intellectual horizon of the reader."—William Stoddart, author of Remembering in a World of Forgetting: Thoughts on Tradition and Postmodernism "Given the fleeting nature of our sojourn on this earth, it is imperative that we use our time wisely. This work is an aid to making wise choices. Focused throughout on the essentials of the spiritual journey, it assists the wayfarer in navigating the often confusing topography of the terrain that lies ahead by distinguishing truly salvific paths—those which lead toward the One or the Absolute, the goal of all orthodox religions—from the useless, the bogus, and the outright dangerous. I recommend this book to everyone whose heart yearns for the True and the Real."—James S. Cutsinger, author of Advice to the Serious Seeker: Meditations on the Teaching of Frithjof Schuon    "[A]n excellent annotated bibliography for the whole field of perennial wisdom."—Robert D. Crane, author of Shaping the Future: Challenge and Response "[T]his book can serve as a primer to the field across multiple religious and spiritual traditions.... We urgently need a metaphysical ... reorientation ... that underlie the approach of this book."—Paradigm ExplorerSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian QuandaryThe Institute of Traditional Psychology (Kazi Publications), 2018Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, is also one o... more Sigmund Freud (1856–1939), one of the most influential figures of the 20th century, is also one of its most controversial. Far from being an outmoded icon of the early formation of modern psychology's historical development, the Freudian doctrine of the "talking cure" has irrevocably shaped the ways in which human beings and human behavior are understood today. Freudian thought has infiltrated the inner recesses of the collective consciousness and the lexicon of psychology. Psychoanalysis has waged an assault on traditional conceptions of the human experience by eclipsing everything of a transcendent order and branding religion itself as a kind of psychopathology. The corrosion of religion and spirituality in the lives of the human collectivity has left an epistemological and ontological vacuum which has been largely filled by psychoanalysis and its off-shoots. Psychoanalysis, like behavioristic psychology, has not died or disappeared, as is often assumed, for the shibboleths of psychoanalysis and behaviorism form the very substratum upon which all contemporary therapies are formulated. The consequences for Western civilization have been destructive and far-reaching.ContentsIntroduction: Sigmund Freud and the Emergence of the Modern World Chapter 1: The Psychoanalytic Revolution: The Succession to the Copernican and Darwinian Revolutions Chapter 2: Psychoanalysis, the Loss of Faith, and the Signs of the Times Chapter 3: The Secret Inner Circle of the Psychoanalytic Movement Chapter 4: The Censoring and Mythologizing of Psychoanalytic History Chapter 5: The Deification of Freud and the Birth of the Freudian Myth of the Hero Chapter 6: The Making of Psychological Man: From Imago Dei to Homo Naturalis Chapter 7: Psychologism: The Reduction of Reality to Psychological Criteria Chapter 8: Freudianism: The Counter-Religion to Replace Sacred Tradition Chapter 9: From Metaphysics to MetapsychologyChapter 10: The Freudian Colonization of the Human Psyche: Id, Ego, and Super-Ego Chapter 11: The "Oceanic Feeling": Mysticism versus RegressionChapter 12: The Eclipse of the Sacred and the Rise of Psychopathology Chapter 13: The Couch and the ConfessionalChapter 14: The Satanic Pact and the Psychologizing of EvilChapter 15: The Ethical Void and the Crisis of the Super-EgoChapter 16: Freud and the Question of Jewish IdentityChapter 17: Anti-Semitism and the Vengeance on ChristianityChapter 18: Psychoanalysis and the Heretical Jewish Messianic MovementsChapter 19: Psychoanalysis as Pseudo-ScienceChapter 20: Psychoanalysis and Its Discontents: Corrosive Ideology and Debunked Case HistoriesChapter 21: Freud on the Psychoanalytic Couch: A Case History of Unfinished Self-AnalysisChapter 22: Freud's Cocaine EpisodeChapter 23: Childhood Sexual Abuse and the Betrayal of TruthChapter 24: Freud, Eros, and the Sexual RevolutionChapter 25: The Neo- and Post-Freudian Revolution: Apologists, Heretics, and RevisionistsConclusion: Founder of the Greatest Revolution in Psychology or "the Greatest Con Man in the History of Medicine"?Some Endorsements for Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary:“This valuable and timely work [Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary] lays bare the demonic nature of Freudianism which went even beyond the realm of psychoanalysis to become an all-embracing world view that has played an important role in the dissolution of the spiritual elements of today's world. The author [Samuel Bendeck Sotillos] casts light upon many of the dark and pernicious elements of this anti-traditional pseudo-science and is to be commended for his penetrating analysis.”—Seyyed Hossein Nasr, University Professor of Islamic Studies at George Washington University, author of The Need for a Sacred Science and Knowledge and the Sacred “Samuel Bendeck Sotillos takes us beyond the familiar image to Freud himself. Calling in part upon primary documents rarely seen, he offers us a glimpse of the man: of what—or who!—is driving him. Given the fact that Freud has left an indelible imprint upon our contemporary postmodern civilization, this treatise can hardly fail to be of profound interest to everyone yet capable of serious and critical thought.”—Wolfgang Smith, Founder of the Philos-Sophia Initiative Foundation, author of Cosmos and Transcendence and The Quantum Enigma: Finding the Hidden Key “Samuel Bendeck Sotillos, informed by a deep understanding of traditional modes of thought and drawing on prodigious research, develops a searching critique of the very foundations of modern psychoanalysis and exposes the ways in which this totalitarian pseudo-science is symptomatic of the profane worldview which is at the root of our contemporary spiritual crisis. This is a penetrating study of wide-ranging significance and the most urgent relevance.”—Harry Oldmeadow, former Coordinator of Philosophy and Religious Studies at La Trobe University, Bendigo, author of Journeys East: 20th Century Western Encounters with Eastern Religious Traditions and Touchstones of the Spirit: Essays on Religion, Tradition and Modernity“This book [Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary] places Freud s doctrines in their true meaning, which we never do. As this author [Samuel Bendeck Sotillos] shows with lucidity and depth, what is in question in this book is the destiny of the human being, a destiny that would be urgent to realize, because there is only freedom in and through the Spirit; instead of this, Freud, under the guise of liberating the human being, trapped him into the determinism of the unconscious, that is to say, the most inferior impulses of our soul. In some respects, it is a work of public safety.” —Jean Borella, retired Professor at the University of Nancy II, author of The Crisis of Religious Symbolism & Symbolism and Reality and The Sense of the SupernaturalSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a SoulThe Institute of Traditional Psychology (Kazi Publications),  2017Over a hundred years have passed since the birth of behaviorism or behavioristic psychology, ofte... more Over a hundred years have passed since the birth of behaviorism or behavioristic psychology, often regarded as the "first force" in contemporary psychology. Many might assume that "the dark night of behaviorism" has subsided once and for all, especially since the behavioristic paradigm has been superseded by the cognitive revolution and other developments, such as psychoanalysis ("second force"), humanistic psychology ("third force") and transpersonal psychology ("fourth force"). However, this assumption would be incorrect as it initiated one of the most powerful currents of modern psychology in the twentieth century. Thus it launched an assault on the human microcosm by decisively abolishing, if not radically trivializing, the role of the psyche or soul and the spiritual dimension in an unparalleled fashion. Although less known, this destructive paradigm was perhaps even more influential than psychoanalysis that predates its existence but did not emerge into a movement in America until later on, nonetheless behaviorism has had an irrevocable impact on the way that the human psyche was universally understood across the diverse cultures prior to the advent of modernism and the development of modern psychology.Some Endorsements for Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a Soul:“This very concise, compact, and thoughtful book offers an important reflection on the challenges and downside of behaviorism and the bias behind this influential perspective in psychology and the mental health field in general. It also highlights how psychology in an attempt to be empirical and scientific pushed spirituality and religion off to the side consequences that are still felt in the field today. Worth a read for those with interest in this important area.” —Thomas G. Plante, Ph.D., ABPP is the Augustin Cardinal Bea, S.J. University Professor at Santa Clara University and adjunct clinical professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford University School of Medicine. He is the author of Contemplative Practices in Action: Spirituality, Meditation, and Health“This book critiques behaviorism from both a philosophical and practical perspective. Its unique contribution, in my view, is its inclusion of many direct quotations from the literature which show, in devastating fashion, what happens when psychology is based on mechanistic assumptions and attempts to exclude, the ‘inner life’ of human beings, including the soul. Samuel Bendeck Sotillos does an excellent job of showing how original behaviorism took away almost everything that makes us human and how that dark legacy continues to permeate modern psychology. The book is an excellent reflection on the foundations of modern psychology.” —David N. Elkins, Ph.D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Pepperdine University, author of The Human Elements of Psychotherapy, Past President of Division 32, Society for Humanistic Psychology, American Psychological Association   “This is a brief, succinct exposition of Behaviorism, a psychology created by an American John Watson in the early 20th Century which has had a profound impact on Western thinking and has now become increasingly influential right through out the world to the extent that it is no longer questioned. India is one of the few cultures left which actively affirms the transcendental nature of reality and in the coming decades we shall see behaviorism and its adjunct consumerism threaten the sacred tenets of the sanātana dharma. The author analyses this school of psychology in the light of the perennial philosophy. There are ‘four forces’ in psychology today namely, behaviorism, psychoanalysis, humanistic and transpersonal. Though behaviorism has been supplanted it nevertheless influences modern thought with its reductionist thinking. It is based on two suppositions: scientism which denies anything that cannot be verified by the five senses and psychologism which reduces an understanding of what is reality to psychological criteria. Mechanized man is reduced to numbers, uniformity, and in distinction from the ‘masses’. Our worth is according to financial currency which is the modern day criterion of what is valuable. It is the triumph of quantity over quality. Guénon called it the ‘Reign of Quantity’ and denotes the degeneration of human values and negates the opportunity of divinity, for Behaviorism denies the reality of the soul and states that humankind is simply a machine that responds to positive and negative stimuli. The behaviorist denies that there is anything more to a human being than behavior. The traditionalist affirms that the human being has a soul who participates in the Divine and has an inherent essence which can transcend the limitations of the human body and mind.  The author has with profuse citations delved into this malaise and the influence it holds on the modern mind. Though it would mainly interest those in the field of psychology, for the general reader this is a sobering and intelligent exposé.” —The Mountain Path journalSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative ReligionStudies in Comparative Religion (World Wisdom),  2013In order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is ... more In order to better cope with the pressures and stresses of the current day, modern psychology is anxiously seeking to find new therapies to address the increasing disorders within the human psyche. In the process new fields of research, such as humanistic and transpersonal psychology, curiously appear to borrow more and more from the wisdom of the ages. This volume, containing eighteen articles by noteworthy expositors of the perennial philosophy such as Huston Smith, Seyyed Hossein Nasr, and Frithjof Schuon, presents the spiritual psychology of the wisdom traditions as a much-needed antidote to the current impasse in modern psychology.Some Endorsements for Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy:“[Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy] is more than an anthology. It is a wisely crafted collection of classic and contemporary scholarship noting that what many are seeking is what has always been, a perennial philosophy, that remains foundational. As one of the authors, Tage Lindbom, properly notes, ‘Secularization is a fish in troubled waters.’ This book claims the waters and is essential reading for all those who may have forgotten or are simply ignorant of the rich foundation provided by the perennial philosophy.”—Ralph W. Hood, Professor of Psychology at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, past president of the Psychology of Religion division of the American Psychological Association, co-founder of The International Journal for the Psychology of Religion and co-author of The Psychology of Religion“A necessary and bracing critique of the assumptions and limitations of contemporary Western psychology, this generous volume is also a passionate call and learned guide towards a truer perspective that embraces man's spiritual nature.”—Gabor Maté, M.D., and author of In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts: Close Encounters with Addiction “Knowing the nature of the mind is perhaps the most difficult undertaking, especially in today’s world. To comprehend the nature of mind one needs to turn to the domain of religion and spirituality. Yet the truth of the mind and its complexity cannot explicitly be defined in words. Inner or transcendent wisdom sees the mind’s own nature without the duality of the seer. Suchness (tathatā) of mind is only experiential and not expressible. The words used to describe thought are themselves a product of thought, which is conditioned and limited. Thus, differences and contradictions are unavoidable. Therefore, a comparative study of different viewpoints and commentaries is immensely important to awaken the inner intelligence to see the mind as it is. Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative Religion edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is an outstanding effort in this direction.”—Samdhong Rinpoche, former Prime Minister (Kalon Tripa) of the Tibetan Government-in-exile, author of Uncompromising Truth for a Compromised World: Tibetan Buddhism and Today’s World “The rise of psychology has impacted the study and practice of spirituality, the experiences and attitudes relevant to ultimate human values that transcend ordinary behavior. Each chapter of this remarkable book demonstrates this interaction in a unique and provocative way. But rather than using psychology to reduce and ‘psychologize’ spiritual topics, its authors demonstrate how directives from the spiritual traditions can enhance and even illuminate the enduring importance of psychology in the 21st century.”—Stanley Krippner, Saybrook University, co-author of Spiritual Dimensions of Healing “The work at hand is a thinking and debating man’s delight. If you have any interest at all in attempting to include an educated and enlightened view of man’s higher functions in your purview of the world, you will learn from and enjoy this collection of essays. If you already have some knowledge in this area, brace yourself: you may see some of your favorites sharply criticized. A thought-provoking work.”—Bruce W. Scotton, University of California, San Francisco, co-editor of Textbook of Transpersonal Psychiatry and Psychology “This book, superbly edited by Samuel Bendeck Sotillos, is a masterful critique of the field of psychology and its loss of the sacred ground in which it once was rooted. It offers depth psychologists an opportunity to contemplate timeless truths echoed through the centuries by perennial philosophers who have always claimed psyche is subordinate to Spirit. Although ignored in depth psychology’s early years due to prejudice and lack of understanding, this is a message today’s psychotherapists must take seriously. Human beings need a deeper and wider transpersonal vision of who and what we are, which the saints and sages of the world’s spiritual traditions have always pointed to. In psychotherapy with a therapist committed to such a vision, patients penetrate into their unconscious depths and not infrequently awaken to the Ground of all Being. Their suffering itself occurred because they had turned away from Spirit. Above all, this volume passionately calls upon depth psychology to remember its origin in the perennial wisdom at the core of the great religions. There is something of a polemic in these pages. It deserves to be considered by depth psychologists of all persuasions.” —Bryan Wittine, Transpersonal psychologist and Jungian psychoanalyst “This anthology from Samuel Bendeck Sotillos is a must reference for anyone who is interested in psychology and its relationship to spirituality, and in developing an inclusive dialogue between disciplines that favor an integral outlook on the person and his or her potential. Selections in this anthology will inspire us to reexamine the metaphysical underpinnings of psychology, and remind us how important it is to rise above science’s attempt to reduce the human being to an epistemic object.”—Sangeetha Menon, National Institute of Advanced Studies (Bangalore, India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Beyond Experience: Consciousness in Bhagavad Gita “This anthology has some of the most discerning essays and reviews on spirituality and psychology, which provide much-needed care and caution to all those engaged in bringing them together or who wish to do so in future. Therefore, it is a must-read for all those who teach, research, consult, or study in such frontier areas as transpersonal psychology, states of consciousness, mind-body relation, holistic health, Indian psychology, and so on. It will be an invaluable textbook for courses in these and other related areas. I congratulate the editor of the book.”—Kiran Kumar K. Salagame, University of Mysore (India), Board Member of the International Transpersonal Association (ITA), author of The Psychology of Meditation: A Contextual Approach “One of the finest collections of essays on the Perennial Philosophy—a must-read for all psychologists who are engaged with spirituality and transpersonal psychology. The essays which critique modern psychology (including transpersonal psychology, and the framework of Carl Jung), in the light of the Perennial Philosophy are a revelation and make compelling reading. The book serves as a corrective to the excesses of modern psychology, and to this end Sotillos has done a commendable job. I for one will include the book in some of the graduate courses that I teach.”—Suneet Varma, University of Delhi, co-editor of Foundations of Indian Psychology “To its credit modern science by-and-large is becoming more cognizant of the essential connection between spirituality and psychological health and well-being and most of all its positive implications within the field of psychology. While there is ample data to document this in a plethora of academic journals and books, this new book Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy adds a novel contribution to the dialogue between psychology and spirituality, which captures many nuances that for the most part go unnoticed within these discussions, and last but not least, it provides a keen eye of discernment to understand this intricate relationship on a deeper level that is crucially needed. This work will be a valuable asset to students and long term mental health practitioners and professors alike who seek to better understand the relationship between psychology and spirituality.”—Harold G. Koenig, Duke University, Director of the Center for Spirituality, Theology and Health, co-author of The Handbook of Religion and HealthSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Realms of Consciousness and the RealSpirituality StudiesIn our post-Enlightenment world, reality has been reduced to only that which can be known through... more In our post-Enlightenment world, reality has been reduced to only that which can be known through the faculty of reason, or empirically verified by the five senses; all higher levels of knowing have virtually been banished. Current approaches to psychotherapy have failed to discern that, without a proper understanding of the mind in all its dimensions, any discussion about effective mental health is not even possible. This paper seeks to demonstrate that certain pernicious limitations in modern Western psychology today have served to distort our understanding of consciousness. This, in turn, has undermined our ability to deliver efficacious mental health treatment, where every dimension of a human being is taken into account.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
MPatLoT (forthcoming)Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
TDotP (forthcoming)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Jewish Tradition and its Science of the Soul (pre-press)Journal of Comparative Literature and AestheticsIn the post-enlightenment world, it is often overlooked that the world’s spiritual traditions pos... more In the post-enlightenment world, it is often overlooked that the world’s spiritual traditions possess a complete psychology or “science of the soul.” This understanding is the very antithesis of the desacralized and reductionistic outlook found in modern Western psychology. The Jewish faith embraces a more integrated understanding of who we are. Its rich mystical tradition clearly speaks to the fullness of what it means to be human. Although modern psychology is in quest of more holistic treatment modalities – seeking, albeit superficially, to draw upon humanity’s sacred wisdom – these attempts cannot remedy the foundational problem, which is the flawed ontological basis of the discipline itself.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Inner and Outer Human BeingThe Mountain Path The seeds sown by the Renaissance, and the Scientific Revolution culminated in the Enlightenment ... more The seeds sown by the Renaissance, and the Scientific Revolution culminated in the Enlightenment project. This contributed to a deracinated psychology that has rendered human beings one-dimensional. The bifurcation of the inner and outer facets of the person has produced a fissure in consciousness, thus divorcing the soul from its transpersonal center. Furthermore, the denial of our tripartite nature as Spirit, soul, and body has proven profoundly traumatic to the psyche. To heal this scission, there is an urgent need to return to a metaphysical framework that integrates diverse modes of knowing and healing, with a view to gaining a deeper understanding of mental health. Without an ontological foundation rooted in the spiritual traditions of humanity, the quest for an effective “science of the soul” that can cure the ills of the spirit will remain elusive.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
In Memoriam: Marty Glass (1938–2022), Loving the Dreamer who is Dreaming UsSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Metaphysics of TraumaTranscendent Philosophy: An International Journal for Comparative Philosophy and MysticismTrauma, which has become a hallmark of everyday life in the modern world, forms part of the broad... more Trauma, which has become a hallmark of everyday life in the modern world, forms part of the broader mental health crisis that afflicts society today. It also, arguably, reflects a lost sense of the sacred. Throughout humanity’s diverse cultures, suffering is understood to be intrinsic to the larger fabric of life in this world; trauma, therefore, is a direct consequence of not being able to properly integrate suffering into one’s life. However, this is not to simply equate suffering with trauma, or trauma with illness. The prevalence of acute traumatic suffering has always been a major cause of disbelief in religion. Yet the increased weakening of faith in the modern world has provoked a particularly severe spiritual crisis, which could be dubbed the “trauma of secularism.” Through recourse to traditional metaphysics, we can begin to understand the transpersonal dimension of this phenomenon and thus accurately assess, diagnose and provide adequate treatment. It will be argued that healing and wholeness cannot take place outside the purview of a “sacred science,” the spiritual dimension of which transcends the limitations of mainstream psychology and its profusion of profane therapies.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Eclipse of the Soul and the Rise of the Ecological CrisisSpirituality StudiesFor many of our contemporaries, there is no more pressing issue than the acute ecological challen... more For many of our contemporaries, there is no more pressing issue than the acute ecological challenges facing the planet. Environmental degradation has reached a tipping point, but how have we fallen into such a predicament? At a deeper level, this critical situation can be seen as a mirror that reflects the spiritual crisis gripping the soul of humanity today. This commenced with the secularizing impetus of the Enlightenment project, which has led to a diminished understanding of the human psyche and the cosmos itself. The anomaly of modern Western psychology is that it stems from the same desacralized and reductionistic outlook. By contrast, a deep-seated connection between sentient beings, the environment, and the Spirit has been recognized in all other times and places, throughout humanity’s traditional civilizations. By a resurrection of a “science of the soul” via a rehabilitated sacred cosmology, the spiritual roots of the ecological crisis can be restored and seen in a proper light. This essay examines the metaphysical dimension of the environmental crisis. The framework employed for this study is the “transpersonal” perspective of the perennial psychology—an application of the insights found in the world’s great wisdom traditions. The objective of the study is to propose a more holistic approach to understanding the essential relationship between our humanity and the natural environment—in all of its boundless and complex variety—seen as a manifestation of divine reality.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Ruh Tutulması ve Ekolojik Krizin Yükselişi (Turkish)Çağdaşlarımızın çoğu için, gezegenin karşı karşıya olduğu akut ekolojik sorunlardan daha acil bir... more Çağdaşlarımızın çoğu için, gezegenin karşı karşıya olduğu akut ekolojik sorunlardan daha acil bir sorun yoktur. Çevresel bozulma bir devrilme noktasına ulaştı, ancak nasıl böyle bir çıkmaza düştük? Daha derin bir düzeyde, bu kritik durum, bugün insanlığın ruhunu yakalayan ruhsal krizi yansıtan bir ayna olarak görülebilir. Bu, insan ruhunun ve kozmosun kendisinin daha az anlaşılmasına yol açan Aydınlanma projesinin dünyevileştirici itici gücüyle başladı. Modern Batı psikolojisinin anomalisi, aynı kutsallıktan arındırılmış ve indirgemeci bakış açısına sahip olmasıdır. Buna karşılık, insanlığın geleneksel uygarlıkları boyunca, diğer tüm zamanlarda ve yerlerde, hissedebilir varlıklarla, çevre ve Ruh arasındaki köklü bir bağlantı kabul edilmiştir. Rehabilite edilmiş bir kutsal kozmoloji aracılığıyla bir “ruhun bilimi”nin yeniden dirilişiyle, ekolojik krizin ruhsal kökleri restore edilebilir ve uygun bir ışık altında görülebilir. Bu makale çevresel krizin metafizik boyutunu incelemektedir. Bu çalışma için kullanılan çerçeve, dünyanın büyük bilgelik geleneklerinde bulunan içgörülerin bir uygulaması olan ezeli psikolojinin kişi-ötesi perspektifidir. Çalışmanın amacı, insanlığımız ile doğal çevre arasındaki temel ilişkiye -tüm sınırsız ve karmaşık çeşitliliğiyle- ilahi gerçekliğin bir tezahürü olarak görülen daha bütünsel bir yaklaşım önermektir.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Recovering the Eye of the HeartThe Mountain PathThe "Eye of the Heart" is the faculty by which we can apprehend spiritual reality. Due to modern ... more The "Eye of the Heart" is the faculty by which we can apprehend spiritual reality. Due to modern Western psychology’s rejection of its metaphysical roots, this potential has been largely eclipsed in us. This has fractured our relationship with the natural world and other sentient beings, causing a host of mental health challenges to arise. This, in turn, has led to a failure to adequately diagnose and properly treat these maladies that have so grievously afflicted our communities.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Decolonization of Psychology or the Science of the SoulSpirituality StudiesSince the inception of psychology as a distinct field of study in the modern West, it has been wi... more Since the inception of psychology as a distinct field of study in the modern West, it has been widely regarded as the only valid form of this discipline, supplanting all other accounts of the mind and human behavior. The modern West is unique in having produced the only psychology that consciously severed itself from metaphysics and spiritual principles. The momentous intellectual revolutions inaugurated by the Renaissance and the European Enlightenment further entrenched the prejudices of its purely secular and reductionist approach. Yet, across the diverse cultures of the world, we find spiritual traditions that embrace a fully-integrated psychology, unsullied by the limitations of the modern scientific method. It is only by grounding psychology on a foundation of sacred and universal truths—found in all traditional civilizations—that we can begin to restore a true “science of the soul” that addresses the entire gamut of human needs and possibilities.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Human Birth as TheophanySacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernityThe significance of the gift and responsibility of a human birth is often not sufficiently apprec... more The significance of the gift and responsibility of a human birth is often not sufficiently appreciated in the modern world. In traditional thought, birth in this world expresses the mystery of manifestation and the human condition. According to the adage, an ‘unexamined life is not worth living,’ this essay reflects on the importance of authentic self‐knowledge in order to understand the meaning and purpose of our existence. Seeking to counter secular narratives that prevail today regarding what it means to be human, it considers how the world’s spiritual traditions view birth as a divine disclosure which is the basis for a true "science of the soul."Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Addiction and the Quest for WholenessSpirituality Studies The global rise of addictions in the modern world is alarming. What the discipline of modern West... more The global rise of addictions in the modern world is alarming. What the discipline of modern Western psychology fails to recognize is the connection between the loss of a sense of the sacred and the rise in addiction and mental illness. Due to the spiritual desolation prevalent in the present day and its traumatizing effects, the human search for wholeness and healing is all too often diverted into destructive and dysfunctional behaviors. It is only a spiritual approach to the science of the soul that allows psychology to restore the categories of Spirit, soul, and body, along with their corresponding degrees of reality. This paper examines the root causes of addiction in order to better understand the collective search for wholeness and healing. The framework employed for this study is the perennial psychology—an application of the universal wisdom found in humanity’s spiritual patrimony to the proper understanding of this burgeoning crisis. The objective of the study is to propose a more integrative approach to assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of addiction.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Transfiguration of the Human BeingTemenos Academy ReviewIn the teachings of many world religions, one often finds the injunction to die before you die. T... more In the teachings of many world religions, one often finds the injunction to die before you die. This refers to a psycho-spiritual process made possible through a traditional “science of the soul” which confers purification, illumination, and spiritual reintegration. This ‘alchemical’ transformation serves to provide true healing, and to restore the wholeness of our primordial nature as human beings.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
A Wisdom That Transcends All Times and Places: An Introduction to the Perennial PhilosophyThe Mountain PathSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Path and the Perennial PhilosophyThe Matheson Trust Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
In Memoriam: Catherine Schuon (1924–2021)Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Freudian PlagueThe Mountain PathSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Enduring Courage and Wisdom: A Tribute to Laleh Bakhtiar (1938–2020)Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Religion and Spirituality According to the Perennial PhilosophyTemenos Academy ReviewSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Timeless Wisdom of Buddhism in the Contemporary World: A Conversation with John ParaskevopoulosTemenos Academy ReviewSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
On the Science of the Soul: A Conversation with Seyyed Hossein NasrJournal of Transpersonal PsychologyThe monopolistic tendency of modern science in asserting itself as the exclusive interpreter of t... more The monopolistic tendency of modern science in asserting itself as the exclusive interpreter of the human psyche or mind through its psychology does so while negating the most crucial dimension that makes it a complete psychology, the metaphysical order as is found across the world in all times and places. The reductionistic turn of modern Western psychology away from its metaphysical roots has deformed the original “science of the soul” rendering it null and void. That spirituality and metaphysics have been marginalized and deemed irrelevant in modern science was assumed to be the logical course of progress. Ironically, however, their fundamental absence is the reason contemporary psychology is in disarray. Numerous individuals may see this as preposterous and think that to suggest this is to turn back the clock to the dark ages of knowledge. However, if psychology is returned to its origin in metaphysics, sacred science, and spiritual principles, it can again become worthy of being called a “science of the soul.” This interview with Islamic philosopher, Seyyed Hossein Nasr, on the discipline of psychology explores the original meaning of the “science of the soul” as it is understood across the diverse cultures of the world.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Modern Discontents and the Wisdom of the Ages: A Conversation with Harry Oldmeadowby Harry Oldmeadow and Samuel Bendeck SotillosSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
El fin de la realidad cuántica: Conversación con Wolfgang Smith (Spanish)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The End of Quantum Reality: A Conversation with Wolfgang SmithSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernityIn this wide-ranging interview, conducted on the occasion of the release of a new film addressing... more In this wide-ranging interview, conducted on the occasion of the release of a new film addressing the implications of his thought, the physicist and metaphysician Wolfgang Smith speaks about the need to integrate science with reality in a way that affirms the lived experience of humanity, and preserves the archetypal and qualitative dimensions that give it meaning. He is critical of scientific fundamentalism and its overreaching tendencies, of the false premises of Darwinian evolutionism and of the limitations of Einsteinian physics and quantum reality. Physics, on its own terms, he claims, must affirm, on pain of absurdity, the metaphysical dimension of reality and of the corporeal existence that it informs.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The "Four Forces" of Modern Psychology and the Primordial Tradition: Interview with Huston SmithPsychology and the Perennial Philosophy: Studies in Comparative Religion,  2013Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
O Legado Espiritual e a Herança do Islã Tradicional e do Sufismo na África do Norte: Entrevista com o Cheique Ahmed Ḥabīb (Portuguese)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Misticismo Induzido por Drogas: Entrevista com Charles Upton (Portuguese)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
‘In Breath, so it is in Spirit’: A Conversation with Ann-Marie SayersSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernityThis interview with a Native Elder of the Ohlone/Costanoan people was conducted in her ancestral ... more This interview with a Native Elder of the Ohlone/Costanoan people was conducted in her ancestral home of the Indian Canyon. Anne‐Marie Sayers speaks about her own history, and of the importance of her spiritual and ancestral heritage, of the environmental crisis and its spiritual roots, and of the traditional emphasis of living in balance with Spirit in nature.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Finding Our Sacred Center in the Modern World: Interview with Laleh BakhtiarSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernityDr. Laleh Bakhtiar is a renowned Sufi scholar, traditional psychologist, author and publisher. Th... more Dr. Laleh Bakhtiar is a renowned Sufi scholar, traditional psychologist, author and publisher. This interview was conducted on the occasion of the second Sacred Web Conference, where Dr. Bakhtiar was a speaker.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Spiritual Legacy and Heritage of Traditional Islam and Sufism in North Africa: Interview with Shaykh Ahmed ḤabībSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernityThis interview of a spiritual Sufi master of the 'Alawiyya tariqah in Algeria offers an insight i... more This interview of a spiritual Sufi master of the 'Alawiyya tariqah in Algeria offers an insight into the wisdom traditions that subsist among the Sufis in North Africa. The interview explores both contemporary issues such as Islamophobia, as well as the deeper meaning of faith in the modern world.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Drug-Induced Mysticism Revisited: Interview with Charles UptonPsychology and the Perennial Philosophy,  2013Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
'Be Ye Lamps unto Yourselves': Interview with Jacob NeedlemanSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernityJacob Needleman, distinguished religious scholar and philosopher, will be known to most perennial... more Jacob Needleman, distinguished religious scholar and philosopher, will be known to most perennialists because of his anthology published in the Penguin Metaphysical Library series (of which he was the general editor) titled "The Sword of Gnosis", and to the general public through his extensive publications and Bill Moyers' feature of him on "The World of Ideas". This interview of Professor Needleman focuses on his views on psychology and modernity in relation to Tradition.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Tears, Laughter, Compassion and Wisdom in the Kali-Yuga: Interview with Marty GlassSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Spiritual Psychology of the Religio Perennis: Interview with John HerlihyAHP PerspectiveSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Self and the Great Chain of Being: Interview with Robert BoltonInternational Journal of Transpersonal Studies,  Jan 1, 2010Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – The Pursuit of the Soul: Psychoanalysis, Soul-Making and the Christian Tradition (forthcoming)Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – How Psychologists Failed: We Neglected the Poor and Minorities, Favored the Rich and Privileged, and Got Science WrongPeace and Conflict: Journal of Peace PsychologyThis book urges us to look beyond causal reductionism, yet it does not mention the loss of a sens... more This book urges us to look beyond causal reductionism, yet it does not mention the loss of a sense of the sacred in the world today. What is overlooked is the need to restore a spiritual dimension to psychology, which is key to rehabilitating a true “science of the soul.” Although Moghaddam calls for the full support of disadvantaged minorities, nowhere (in the book) is it recognized that these same people are often anchored in spiritual traditions and wish to receive mental health services that take into account their sacred worldview.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Demonic Foes: My Twenty-Five Years as a Psychiatrist Investigating Possessions, Diabolic Attacks, and the Paranormal (forthcoming)Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Sacred Knowledge: Psychedelics and Religious ExperiencesSpiritual Psychology and Counseling The quest for more holistic forms of treatment and healing in modern psychology has been provoked... more The quest for more holistic forms of treatment and healing in modern psychology has been provoked by its sole focus on the management of symptoms. This has led to an alarming rise in the use of psychedelic substances. Yet the true cause behind these maladies of the mind is the burgeoning ‘crisis of meaning’ that we find in the world today. This largely undiagnosed predicament has led to religion being supplanted by psychology, and to the realm of the psyche becoming confused with that of the spiritual. Modern societies have clearly lost a sense of the sacred. To the extent that we fail to see this, the use of entheogens will never be able to replace a true “science of the soul,” which offers a more satisfying conception of reality, and a fuller understanding of what it means to be human. In this way, we may discover a properly integrated approach to healing that is grounded in the deeper wisdom to be found in the world’s time-honored spiritual traditions.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – The Fragrance of Light: A Journey Into Buddhist WisdomTemenos Academy Review Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – How to Change Your Mind: What the New Science of Psychedelics Teaches Us About Consciousness, Dying, Addiction, Depression, and TranscendenceTranscendent Philosophy: An International Journal for Comparative Philosophy and MysticismSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Developing a Model of Islamic Psychology and Psychotherapy: Islamic Theology and Contemporary Understandings of PsychologySpiritual Psychology and Counseling Due to the destructive legacy of colonialism within the Islamic world, traditional or premodern w... more Due to the destructive legacy of colonialism within the Islamic world, traditional or premodern wisdom has, in large part, been brushed aside in favor of a materialistic and reductionistic outlook based on the shifting sands of modern intellectual fashions. Modern Western psychology emerged through the secularizing trajectory of the Renaissance, the Scientific Revolution, and the Enlightenment project; all of which contributed to the purging of metaphysics and the human soul’s intrinsic connection to the spiritual dimension within the discipline. Due to the growing interest in restoring this vital dimension, Islamic psychology—akin to other traditional understandings of the mind known as perennial psychology—addresses this need to understand human behavior in light of the sacred.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Borderlands of the Spirit: Reflections on a Sacred Science of Mind (Turkish)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Borderlands of the Spirit: Reflections on a Sacred Science of MindJournal of Transpersonal PsychologySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – A Catholic Christian Meta-Model of the Person: Integration with Psychology and Mental Health PracticeSpiritual Psychology and CounselingThe Enlightenment project took root in the modern West. It was not a natural outgrowth of Christi... more The Enlightenment project took root in the modern West. It was not a natural outgrowth of Christianity but, rather, a repudiation of its sacred tenets. Prior to the gradual secular trajectory of the West, the Christian tradition shared a common metaphysical understanding of reality with other spiritual traditions of the world. It is this sacred epistemology that provides a unitive understanding of the human being and a psychology or “science of the soul” that integrally connects the person to the Divine. The development of modern Western psychology as a distinct discipline is due to the European Enlightenment and its desacralization and reductionism, which is its inescapable legacy that it still has not come to terms with. Paradoxically, psychology is the study of the psyche or soul, yet its science denies the existence of Spirit and therefore it cannot be an authentic psychology. In fact, in the Middle Ages we nd the Latin expression cura animarum, or “cure of souls,” which conveys the integration of spirituality and psychology, always situating the human psyche within the spiritual domain that transcends and includes it.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Shimmering Mirrors: Reality and Appearance in Contemplative Metaphysics East and WestSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Introduction to Traditional Islam, Illustrated: Foundations, Art, and SpiritualityIslamic PerspectiveSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Indigenous Healing Psychology: Honoring the Wisdom of the First PeoplesSpiritual Psychology and CounselingSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Sculpting the Self: Islam, Selfhood, and Human FlourishingThe Humanistic PsychologistSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Mental Disorders and Spiritual Healing: Teachings from the Early Christian EastJournal of Transpersonal ResearchModern Western psychology is not a monolithic discipline for it has, at its disposal, a host of t... more Modern Western psychology is not a monolithic discipline for it has, at its disposal, a host of therapies and techniques. However, it is sustained by a set of hegemonic and totalitarian assumptions that have, in myriad ways, served to undermine other approaches. Mainstream psychology, which is based on a foundation of materialism, is largely incapable of providing authentic healing because it cannot access realms that transcend the empirical order. Yet, since time immemorial, there have been modes of spiritually based therapies connected to the diverse religious traditions of the world. In this ground-breaking work, Dr. Jean-Claude Larchet provides a compelling analysis of the Church Fathers’ profound wisdom into the human condition and its various maladies of the soul. In doing so, he offers remarkable insights into how mental health treatment can be richly informed by traditional Christianity.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Immeasurable Life: The Essence of Shin BuddhismThe Eastern BuddhistSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Art of Islam, Language and Meaning: Commemorative EditionIslamic PerspectiveSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – Chartres and the Birth of the Cathedral: RevisedJournal of Transpersonal Psychology In this new and revised edition of Chartres and the Birth of the Cathedral, the reader is guided ... more In this new and revised edition of Chartres and the Birth of the Cathedral, the reader is guided as a pilgrim through the noble sanctuary that is Chartres and the lofty intellectual and spiritual ambiance that conceived the marvel that is Gothic architecture. The art historian and philosopher of religion Titus Burckhardt (1908–1984), who explores Chartres in all its glory with us in this book, was one of the twentieth century’s most renowned experts on sacred art. Medieval Christianity, on the foundation of its metaphysical, psychological, and cosmological principles, understood the human being to be a “little world” (microcosmos) consisting of spirit/intellect, soul, and body, which is at the heart of the spheres of the “big world” (macrocosmos). The medieval world understood that there is a hidden geometric “governing pattern” that harmoniously unites the seen and unseen realms of reality. This transpersonal knowledge is both discriminative and unitive, allowing for the discernment of the eternal essences of forms without confusing them. This vision creates a much more expansive view of what it means to be human and of the theophanic nature of the cosmos.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Book Review – The Reflective Heart: Discovering Spiritual Intelligence in Ibn ‘Arabi’s Meccan IlluminationsSacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Yansitici Kalp: İbn Arabîde Manevi Zekâyi Keşfetmek (Turkish)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Paths That Lead to the Same Summit: An Annotated Guide to World Spirituality," by David Lorimer, Paradigm Explorer: Journal of the Scientific and Medical Network, Number 139 (2022), p. 63.Paradigm ExplorerSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Dismantling Freud: Fake Therapy and the Psychoanalytic Worldview," by David Lorimer, Paradigm Explorer: Journal of the Scientific and Medical Network, Number 136 (2021), p. 67.Paradigm ExplorerSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a Soul," by Brian Welter, Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and Modernity, Volume 47 (Summer 2021), pp. 221–225.Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy," by Pravin Thevathasan, Catholic Medical Quarterly, Vol. 71, No. 2 (May 2021), p. 23.Catholic Medical QuarterlySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a Soul," by Pravin Thevathasan, Catholic Medical Quarterly, Vol. 71, No. 2 (May 2021), p. 21.Catholic Medical Quarterly Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Dismantling Freud: Fake Therapy and the Psychoanalytic Worldview," by  Brian Welter, Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and Modernity, Volume 46 (Winter 2020), pp. 166–170.Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Dismantling Freud: Fake Therapy and the Psychoanalytic Worldview," by Pravin Thevathasan, Catholic Medical Quarterly, Vol. 70, No. 3 (August 2020), pp. 24–25.Catholic Medical QuarterlySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary," by  Kübra Yiğit Tekel,  Spiritual Psychology and Counseling, Vol. 4, No. 3 (October 2019), pp. 359–362.Spiritual Psychology and CounselingSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary," by Binita Mehta, Journal of Transpersonal Psychology, Vol. 51, No. 1 (2019), pp. 127–131.Journal of Transpersonal PsychologySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy," by David Lorimer, Network Review: Journal of the Scientific and Medical Network, Number 113 (Winter 2013), pp. 55–56.Network Review: Journal of the Scientific and Medical NetworkSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy," by Christopher Quilkey, The Mountain Path, Vol. 51, No. 4 (October/December 2014), pp. 123–124.The Mountain PathThe Mountain Path is a quarterly Journal founded in 1964 by Arthur Osborne and published by Sri R... more The Mountain Path is a quarterly Journal founded in 1964 by Arthur Osborne and published by Sri Ramanansramam. The aim of this journal is to set forth the wisdom of all religions and all ages, especially as testified to by their saints and mystics, and to clarify the paths available to seekers in the conditions of our modern world.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy," by Sir Nicholas Pearson, Temenos Academy Review, Number 18 (2015), pp. 257–261.Temenos Academy ReviewThe Temenos Academy Review is the journal of the Temenos Academy and is the successor to Temenos,... more The Temenos Academy Review is the journal of the Temenos Academy and is the successor to Temenos, founded by Keith Critchlow, Brian Keeble, Kathleen Raine and Philip Sherrard, which was first published in 1981.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology and the Perennial Philosophy," by Mateus Soares de Azevedo, Journal of Transpersonal Psychology, Vol. 48, No. 1 (2016), pp. 118–122.Journal of Transpersonal PsychologySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Behaviorism: The Quandary of a Psychology without a Soul," by Christopher Quilkey, The Mountain Path, Vol. 54, No. 4 (October/December 2017), p. 125.The Mountain PathThe Mountain Path is a quarterly Journal founded in 1964 by Arthur Osborne and published by Sri R... more The Mountain Path is a quarterly Journal founded in 1964 by Arthur Osborne and published by Sri Ramanansramam. The aim of this journal is to set forth the wisdom of all religions and all ages, especially as testified to by their saints and mystics, and to clarify the paths available to seekers in the conditions of our modern world.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Review of "Psychology Without Spirit: The Freudian Quandary," by Charles Upton, Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and Modernity, Volume 44 (Winter 2019), pp. 100–106.Sacred Web: A Journal of Tradition and ModernitySave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023