Advocacy – Wikimedia Foundation
 
 
Skip to content
Toggle menu
Search for:
Search
Current language: 
en
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Deutsch
Donate now
Search for:
Search
Our Work
Support Wikipedia
Research
Advocacy
Technology
News
Participate
About
 
AdvocacyWe protect the right to free knowledge.Everyone, everywhere has the right to access and share knowledge. By working with Wikimedia volunteers and affiliate organizations around the world, we protect free and open knowledge online, the people who make it possible, and our shared values.
Defending free expressionWe defend everyone’s right to access free knowledge. We protect free expression rights; oppose government-imposed censorship; and educate governments, regulators, and lawmakers to defend people’s right to access and share knowledge globally.
Advancing better internet regulationsWe help lawmakers support the right of online platforms and communities to create and share knowledge. We advocate laws that protect our ability to host content that Wikimedia volunteers share and edit. We are transparent about how we handle government demands to remove content or share data.
Promoting open copyright licensesCreating and remixing content is vital for Wikimedia projects. We support copyright laws that promote a strong public domain and enable the use of free and open licenses so Wikimedia volunteers can contribute to knowledge broadly.
Upholding human rightsVolunteers may face surveillance, harassment, and retaliation for their work on Wikimedia projects. We defend their human rights, and we work to promote a safe online environment to create and share knowledge.
Protecting privacyPrivacy enables people to engage and share knowledge freely, without fear of someone watching their online lives. We defend everyone’s right to privacy and challenge mass surveillance.
Fighting disinformationWe stand for the right of everyone, everywhere to participate in free knowledge. In early 2022, when sanctions were imposed against the Russian government for invading Ukraine, we worked with our partners to make sure the Russian people could continue to access the open internet.
Learn more about our work, including research initiatives and how to get involved.
Stay up-to-date by following us on Twitter, reading our monthly public policy and advocacy recap, and joining our mailing list.
34 million
new articles in 2022
Tweet this
822
takedown requests received in 2021, 0 granted 
Tweet this
Contact usQuestions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team.ContactFollow
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
 
 
For third time, China blocks Wikimedia Foundation as permanent observer to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
Advocacy Press Release 
The Wikimedia Foundation was rejected for the third time from gaining accreditation as a permanent observer to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).
7 July 2023
By Wikimedia Foundation 
Read more
 
Protect the future of Wikipedia in the UK
Advocacy Blog Post Policy makers United Kingdom 
The UK Online Safety Bill threatens the future of Wikipedia, a vital knowledge resource for people across the country. We are calling on UK government leaders to protect the online encyclopaedia now.
29 June 2023
By Lucy Crompton-Reid and Rebecca MacKinnon 
Read more
Help us unlock the world’s knowledge.As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations.Donate now
Photo credits
 
WIPO Headquarters
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Emmanuel Berrod
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Palace of Westminster, London - Feb 2007
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Diliff
CC BY-SA 2.5
 
Editatona Escuela de mujeres wikipedistas 02
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
LABNL Lab Cultural Ciudadano
CC BY-SA 2.0
 
Transparency Report
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
ADavenport (WMF)
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Felix, Satdeep, Stalinjeet and Manavpreet at Wikimedia Conference 2017
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jason Krüger for Wikimedia Deutschland e.V.
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Collective photo at the -VisibleWikiWomen photo booth
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
NamukoloS
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Suscol Intertribal Council 2015 Pow-wow - Stierch 23
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Sarah Stierch
CC BY 4.0
 
Albert V Bryan Federal District Courthouse - Alexandria Va
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Tim Evanson
CC BY-SA 2.0
 
Capacitación con Wikimedia Argentina - 2
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Sombra Inquieta
CC BY-SA 4.0
 
Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon
File provided by Wikimedia Commons
Jens Mohr
CC BY-SA 3.0
The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge.
Careers
Contact
Projects
Wikipedia
Wikibooks
Wikiversity
Wikinews
Wiktionary
Wikisource
Wikiquote
Wikivoyage
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata
Wikispecies
MediaWiki
 
Movement Affiliates
Wikimedia Chapters
Wikimedia Thematic Organizations
Wikimedia User Groups
 
Other
Terms of use
Privacy policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility statement
Cookie statement
 
Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice.