national-anthems.org - History of National Anthems
76 captures
15 Apr 2003 - 04 Apr 2023
Jan
MAY
Jun
09
2005
2006
2007
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawl EI
  Crawl EI from Alexa Internet.  This data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20060509164739/http://www.national-anthems.org:80/history.htm
HOME
SITE MAP
DOWNLOAD
REFERENCE
FACTS
HISTORY
BOOKS
BACK
History
Forty National Anthems
AUSTRIA
BELGIUM
CANADA
CHINA
COLOMBIA
COSTA
            RICA
CUBA
ECUADOR
FINLAND
FRANCE
GREECE
HAITI
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
INDONESIA
ISRAEL
ITALY
JAPAN
KOREA (SOUTH)
LEBANON
MALAYSIA
MEXICO
NETHERLANDS
NEW ZEALAND
NICARAGUA
NORWAY
PAKISTAN
THE
            PHILIPPINES
POLAND
ROMANIA
SOUTH AFRICA
SPAIN
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
TAIWAN
THAILAND
UK
USA
VENEZUELA
HISTORY
        OF THE STATE ANTHEMS OF MALAYSIA
All material © Copyright 2003
              Michael Jamieson Bristow FRGS
AUSTRIA / ÖSTERREICH
Both the melody and text were selected by a jury
              in a nationwide contest held in 1946. The
              prize-winning poem - chosen from among two thousand
              entries - was a contribution by the Austrian poetess,
              
              PAULA von PRERADOVIĆ (1887-1951). She was born
              in Vienna from an old Croatian family and had
              published, before the time of her national triumph,
              five volumes of verse as well as several plays and
              novels. The text of the National Anthem breathes a
              spirit of quiet love of country rather than of
              political patriotism.
The usual attribution of the music to Mozart is
              questionable, but the evidence according to Austrian
              scholarship is more in favour of JOHANN HOLZER
              (1753-1818) a member of Mozart's masonic lodge.
The National Anthem was officially adopted by the
              Austrian Cabinet on February 25 1947.
Top of Page
BELGIUM / BELGIQUE / BELGÏE / BELGIEN
One evening after the Belgian-Dutch difficulties
              of September, 1830, a group of young people went into
              the cafe de l'Aigle d'Or in Brussels' rue de la
              Fourche. They were given a room on the first floor in
              which to take their ease. Amid the noble speeches,
              the laughter and singing of these revolutionaries,
              one of them, the French comedian and poet HIPPOLYTE
              LOUIS-ALEXANDRE DECHET (1801-1830) - more generally
              known by his pseudonym JENNEVAL (who had come from
              Paris to fight with the Belgian patriots), began to
              recite a poem he had written which expressed the
              aspirations of the revolutionaries at the time.
It is thus explained how the National Anthem came
              about in 1830. The anecdote may or may not be true,
              but what is certain is that the first
              Brabançonne was written by Jenneval in late
              1830. Jenneval was also an actor at the
              Théâtre de la Monnaie in Brussels, where
              the revolution broke out on August 25 1830, which led
              to the independence of Belgium. He composed three
              versions of the Belgian National Anthem which he
              gradually adapted to reflect the events as they
              happened. The first version was sung on September 12
              1830 at the Théâtre de la Monnaie, that is,
              at a time when Belgium was still part of the Kingdom
              of the Netherlands under the rule of the House of
              Orange-Nassau. It pledged loyalty to the King
              provided it be allowed to ripen as a fruit on the
              tree of liberty. The second version, written during
              the street fighting in which Belgium won its
              independence, kept the theme of the tree of liberty
              but now no Orange-Nassau could be tolerated on it.
              Such was the mood in the heat of the moment. Later on
              things cooled off and people were eager again to
              establish good-neighbourly relations. Jenneval fought
              in the rebel army and was killed in combat near
              Lièrre, on October 18 1830.
In 1860, this song was further changed, this time
              by the Prime Minister, CHARLES ROGIER (1800-1885) who
              wrote a completely new text which omitted all
              allusions to Holland and its royal house but dealt
              instead exclusively with the glory of Belgium. The
              fourth verse of this version, is still used
              today.
FRANÇOIS VAN CAMPENHOUT, a violinist also
              from the Théâtre de la Monnaie, composed
              the melody and called it 'La Brabançonne',
              derived from 'Brabant'.
There are also several versions of 'La
              Brabançonne' in Dutch. Apart from a translation
              of the words by Rogier, there is also an original
              version which is not a translation, with words by
              Victor Ceulemans written to Van Campenhout's music.
              The version generally accepted today is a translation
              by an unknown author (possibly Ceulemans) of the
              words by Charles Rogier with the music by Van
              Campenhout.
Top of Page
CANADA
The text of the Canadian National Anthem was
              written in French by ADOLPHE BASILE ROUTHIER
              (1839-1920). The music is by CALIXA LAVALLÉE
              (1842-1891), a native of Verchères in the
              province of Québec. Calixa Lavallée died in
              Boston where he had settled down as a concert pianist
              and music teacher after a successful travelling
              career. During the United States Civil War he was in
              the US and fought on the side of the North. In 1874,
              he became the Director of the Grand Opera House in
              New York, the predecessor of the Metropolitan Opera
              House. He wrote 'O Canada' in 1880 at the request of
              prominent French-Canadian patriotic societies.
'O Canada' represents rather the introvert and
              prayer like type of National Anthem. The melody seems
              expressive of the country's peaceful character and
              the religious attitude of its people.
There is also an English text by ROBERT STANLEY
              WEIR (1856-1926). It is not a translation of
              Routhier's lines but was written - as the author put
              it himself (1908) - "because Mr. Lavallée's
              splendid melody (one worthy to rank with the finest
              national airs of any of the older lands) has hitherto
              lacked an English setting in the song style".
It was officially adopted on July 1 1980.
Top of Page
CHINA / CHUNG KUO
The National Anthem of the People's Republic of
              China is 'The March of the Volunteers'. It was first
              composed in 1935. On June 15 1949, the Preparatory
              Committee for the Chinese People's Political
              Consultative Conference decided to solicit songs
              suitable for China's National Anthem and on July 18
              1949 it inserted notices in the newspapers to this
              effect. On September 27 1949, the Preparatory
              Committee passed a resolution that until such time as
              a National Anthem was officially chosen 'The March of
              the Volunteers' would serve as a temporary National
              Anthem.
During the 'cultural revolution' there was a
              period when 'The East Is Red' was used as a
              substitute National Anthem. Later, the earlier
              National Anthem was restored, though according to a
              resolution passed by the People's Congress in 1978,
              its lyrics were changed. In 1982, the Fifth Session
              of the Fifth National People's Congress resolved to
              restore the original 1935 version of 'The March of
              the Volunteers' as the official National Anthem. It
              was written by the lyricist TIAN HAN (1898-1968). In
              his youth he studied in Japan, returning to China in
              1921. He was an active dramatist and poet, and wrote
              more than one hundred plays and other dramatic
              works.
The composer was NIE ER (1912-1935). He fell in
              love with music at an early age and mastered numerous
              folk instruments. He went to Shanghai in 1930, and
              the following year joined the Mingyue Song and Dance
              Troupe as a violinist. In 1935, shortly after
              composing 'The March of the Volunteers', he embarked
              on a trip to the Soviet Union via Japan. During his
              stopover in Japan, he drowned while swimming.
1935 was a time of grave national peril, and as
              soon as the song appeared it was rapidly transmitted
              to every part of the country. 'The March of the
              Volunteers' expresses the Chinese people's desire to
              resist foreign aggression and strengthen their
              nation; it conveys as well their revolutionary
              spirit, their staunchness in the face of violence and
              their willingness to lay down their lives for freedom
              and 1iberation.
Top of Page
COLOMBIA
The music of the National Anthem of Colombia was
              composed by the Italian tenor ORESTE SINDICI
              (1837-1904), who had arrived in Bogotá with an
              Italian opera company and for some reason decided to
              stay on. His remains rest in the cemetery in
              Bogotá.
The words of the National Anthem are by RAFAEL
              NÚÑEZ (1825-1894), the great statesman who
              served his country as President for no less than four
              terms. The Italian inspiration of the music is quite
              apparent. There is a triumphant prelude followed by
              the tune.
Top of Page
COSTA RICA
When in 1853 the plenipotentiaries of Great
              Britain and the United States arrived in San
              José, the capital of Costa Rica, the President
              of the Republic decided that the two gentlemen should
              be welcomed to the strains of the National Anthem.
              The trouble was that Costa Rica had no National
              Anthem. To remove this slight obstacle, MANUEL
              MARÍA GUTIÉRREZ (1829-1887), who enjoyed
              the reputation of being his country's foremost
              practicing musician, was ordered to compose one. The
              poor devil insisted that he knew nothing about the
              art of musical composition. But that did him no good.
              He was thrown into prison and promised that he would
              not be released until he had produced a usable piece
              of music. The resulting composition was first
              performed in the National Assembly of San José
              on June 11 1853.
The story may be apocryphal, for there are sources
              which give the date of the National Anthem as 1821.
              However that be, with its text by JOSÉ
              MARÍA ZELEDÓN BRENES (1877-1949)
              (officially adopted in 1900 as the result of a public
              contest), the National Anthem of Costa Rica is a very
              respectable composition. It is somewhat conventional
              and suggests vaguely the style of contemporary German
              glee club arrangements.
Top of Page
CUBA
In keeping with its first line, the National
              Anthem is also known as the 'Himno de Bayamo'. The
              author and composer is PEDRO FIGUEREDO (1819-1870).
              He played a distinguished part in the movement of the
              Cuban patriots against the Spanish oppressors and
              commanded the revolutionary forces in the Battle of
              Bayamo in October 1868. When in the course of this
              operation the village of Guanabacoa was stormed, he
              felt the inspiration to write both the words and the
              tune of the National Anthem. In 1870, he was taken
              prisoner by the Spaniards, condemned to death and
              executed.
Top of Page
ECUADOR
The composer of the National Anthem of Ecuador was
              ANTONIO NEUMANE (1818-1871) born of German parents in
              Quito, where he also died. He was also the first
              Director of the National Conservatory in Quito which
              was established in 1870.
The author of the text was JUAN LEÓN MERA
              (1832-1894), a scholar and journalist. In his later
              years he was the President of the Senate of Ecuador.
              The National Anthem had been in use for a
              considerable length of time before it was officially
              recognized in 1886 by a Government decree.
The introduction to this National Anthem of
              marchlike rhythm is written in the grandiloquent
              style one is apt to associate with romantic piano
              sonatas. The tune is replete with dash and ardour and
              admits no doubt in regard to the German background of
              the composer.
Top of Page
FINLAND / SUOMI
The Finnish National Anthem, 'Maamme' ('Our
              Land'), was sung for the first time at a students'
              gathering on May 13 1848. The text, first published
              the previous year, was by Finland's national poet,
              
              JOHAN LUDVIG RUNEBERG (1804-1877), all of whose works
              - including the National Anthem - were first written
              in Swedish and subsequently translated into
              Finnish.
The melody is considerably more than an amateur's
              lucky hit. It is the work of the Finnish violinist
              and composer of operas and songs, FREDRIK PACIUS
              (1809-1891), who was born in Hamburg, Germany, but
              lived most of his life at Helsinki where he died. He
              became the founder of the Finnish National School of
              Music (1852) and is considered the father of Finnish
              opera. His National Anthem - without shift of key -
              is simple, forceful and melodious. It has a certain
              distinctive boldness which makes it sound angular and
              massive.
Top of Page
FRANCE
'La marseillaise' was written in a mood of
              excitement by the poet, dramatist, singer and
              violinist
              
              CLAUD-JOSEPH ROUGET de L'ISLE (1760-1836) in a single
              night in April 1792, as a marching song for Marshall
              Lukner's army of the Rhine. It was first sung by
              Mayor Dietrich of Strasbourg at his home and was
              performed a few days later by the band of the Garde
              Nationale. Its popularity throughout France became
              assured when it was taken up by a battalion of
              volunteers from Marseilles, who sang it as they
              entered Paris in July the same year, it thereafter
              became known as 'La marseillaise'.
An attempt was made during the Second Empire to
              replace the National Anthem with another of a less
              'revolutionary' character, but after the fall of
              Emperor Napoleon III 'La marseillaise' was
              immediately reinstated.
Top of Page
GREECE / HELLAS
Greece may claim to have the longest National
              Anthem in the world. It has no fewer than one hundred
              and fifty-eight stanzas of four lines each. The poet
              of the Greek National Anthem, DIONYSIOS SOLOMS
              (1798-1857), was born on the island of Zante and died
              in Corfu. Written in 1823, he sang the heroic deeds
              of the Greek fighters for freedom.
King George I declared the poem Greece's National
              Anthem. For this purpose it was naturally shortened.
              The composer was NICOLAOS MANZAROS (1795-1873). He
              had studied in Italy and earned the first successes
              of his career there. If one did not know about this,
              it certainly could be inferred from his 'Hymn to
              Freedom' of 1828 which shows no Hellenic
              characteristics but is pronouncedly Italian.
The Greeks were not quite certain that their
              National Anthem was musically adequate. So, at the
              suggestion of King Otto, it was submitted to musical
              experts in Bavaria. When no veto was forthcoming, a
              special edict bestowed official standing upon the
              National Anthem in 1864.
Montage of Six Kings of Greece
Top of Page
HAITI / HAÏTI
In contrast to almost all the other South American
              National Anthems, that of Haiti - though typically
              South American - shares certain characteristics -
              especially its comparitive brevity - with the
              National Anthems of European countries. Its name is
              'La Dessalinienne' after Jean Jacques Dessalines
              (1758-1806), the liberator of this Negro Republic
              which forms the Western part of the island of Santo
              Domingo. Dessalines defeated the French under
              Rochambeau and on January 1 1804, he issued a Haitian
              declaration of independence assuming for himself the
              title of Emperor of Haiti.
The National Anthem was written in 1903 in
              connection with the country's centennial celebration.
              The words are by JUSTIN LHÉRISSON (1873-1907),
              the music by NICOLAS GEFFRARD (1871-1930). Haiti is
              the only Latin-American republic with French as its
              official language. 'La Dessalinienne' was sung for
              the first time on November 29 1903, at the Petit
              Théatre Sylvain in Port-au-Prince in
              commemoration of the hundredth anniversary of the
              occupation of Gonaïves.
Top of Page
HUNGARY / MAGYARORSZÁG
In 1842, a public contest was organized for a
              National Anthem. The prize went to FERENC ERKEL
              (1810-1893), the distinguished Hungarian composer. He
              is considered the creator of the Hungarian national
              opera and of national Hungarian music. He was the
              Director of the Hungarian Academy of Music and
              organized the philharmonic concerts in Budapest.
Erkel's National Anthem is typically 'Hungarian'
              with characteristic features of Hungarian popular
              music (as the nineteenth century saw it), skilfully
              employed. In contrast to many other National Anthems,
              Erkel's work can withstand the strictest critical
              scrutiny. It is both fiery and chivalrous. A certain
              rhetorical element does not prevent it from being
              strictly logical in structure.
Words by FERENC KÖLCSEY (1790-1838). About
              the origin of Kolcsey's poem, a note in a published
              edition gives the information, 'from the tempestuous
              era of the Hungarian people, Czeke, January 22 1823'.
              Other authorities trace it back to 1817.
Top of Page
ICELAND / ÍSLAND
Iceland has a National Anthem which is in keeping
              with the country's status as a sovereign island
              republic. However, it was written and composed as
              early as 1874, the year when the Icelanders under the
              leadership of Jn Sigurdsson at last - after a thirty
              year struggle - secured their own constitution which
              gave legislative powers to the Icelandic Althingi. It
              was also the year when Iceland celebrated the one
              thousandth anniversary of the first permanent
              Norwegian settlers in the year 874, this is the
              inspiration of the Icelandic National Anthem which
              contains hardly an allusion to the political
              developments of the period of its origin.
The poet, MATTHÍAS JOCHUMSSON (1835-1920)
              also made a name for himself as the translator into
              Icelandic of various plays by Shakespeare, Ibsen and
              others. His original works include likewise a number
              of dramatic pieces.
The composer, SVEINBJÖRN SVEINBJÖRNSSON
              (1847-1926), spent the greater part of his life in
              Edinburgh, Scotland, where he made a living as a
              music teacher. His National Anthem earned him a gold
              medal but it is difficult to discover in it anything
              strikingly Nordic. It is a competent but fairly
              conventional piece of work.
Top of Page
INDIA / BHARAT
The National Anthem of India is the work of the
              great poet and philosopher RABINDRANATH TAGORE
              (1861-1941). It was first published in 1912, and was
              for years associated with India's struggle towards
              independence. He wrote not only the words but also
              the melody and provided furthermore an English
              adaption. The melody has little to do with the
              'Ragas' of the Hindus. It was sung at the historical
              midnight session of the Constituent Assembly on
              August 14 1947 and became the National Anthem just
              over two years later.
Top of Page
INDONESIA
Indonesia's National Anthem 'Indonesia Raya'
              ('Indonesia The Great') was composed in 1928 during
              the Dutch colonial period, at a time when the Dutch
              rulers in Indonesia carried out a divide and rule
              policy which stressed linguistic, ethnic, cultural
              and religious differences amongst the Indonesian
              people.
The birth of 'Indonesia Raya' was closely related
              to the awakening of Indonesia's nationalist
              movements. The song was first introduced by its
              author and composer, WAGE RUDOLF SOEPRATMAN
              (1903-1938) at the Second All Indonesia Youth
              Congress held on October 28 1928, at the time when
              Indonesia's youth originating from different ethnic,
              linguistic, religious and cultural denominations
              enthusiastically pledged: 1. having one native
              country, Indonesia, 2. belonging to one nation, the
              Indonesian Nation and
              
              3. having one language of unity, the Indonesian
              language.
The then National Song, introduced to this youth
              congress, stressing the call for unity among
              Indonesians, soon became popular. It was sung at
              Indonesian political rallies where participants stood
              up in solemn adherence. The song had really implanted
              Indonesia's national consciousness among the
              population all over the archipelago. It became the
              National Anthem in 1949.
Top of Page
ISRAEL / ISRAIL
Israel has a National Anthem whose goal and
              purpose it is to serve the renaissance of the Jewish
              people, the strengthening of its national
              reawakening, and the development of the Promised
              Land.
This National Anthem, the 'Hatikvah' ('Hope'), is
              not merely used by the Jews of Israel. It unites all
              ethnically determined Jews throughout the world and
              was actually adopted as the Zionist Anthem as long
              ago as 1897, the year of the first international
              Zionist Congress at Basel, Switzerland. The text was
              written by the itinerant Hebrew scholar and poet,
              NAFTALI HERZ IMBER (1856-1909). It was first
              published in the collection 'Barkai' ('Morning Star')
              which appeared in 1886 in Jerusalem where Imber lived
              at the time.
Its notation is ascribed to SHMUEL COHEN
              (1870-1940) pioneer settler of Rishon Le-Zion in
              Israel, who was born in Besarabia (bordering
              Romania). He came to Rishon-Le-Zion in 1886-1887,
              married and had one daughter, Eda, who died in Haifa
              and had no children. Shmuel Cohen was a farmer
              growing grapes for wine, he failed economically and
              left Rishon Le-Zion but later returned and was buried
              there. Shmuel Cohen was gifted musically and played
              the violin. However, aside from his connection with
              'Hatikva', it is not known that he wrote music.
              Naftali Herz Imber's poem 'Tikvatenu' reached Cohen,
              either in Rishon Le-Zion after Imber's stay here, or
              after his brother sent Imber's book of poems 'Barkai'
              to him while still in Europe. Since there were no, or
              very few, Hebrew songs at that time, and since the
              children of Rishon Le-Zion studied in the First
              Hebrew school and kindergarten in the world, a need
              for Hebrew songs became apparent. Shmuel Cohen,
              familiar with a Romanian/Moldavian folksong from his
              homeland, called 'Carul cu boi', joined the words of
              'Tikvatenu' to this melody. The first stanza and
              refrain (which the Hebrew teachers in Rishon Le-Zion
              altered with Imber's approval) became a Hebrew
              children's song called 'Hatikva'. The song soon
              became known throughout the country (the workers from
              Rishon Le-Zion would sing it on their way to work in
              the fields of Rehovot nearby) and was also sung
              spontaneously at official ceremonies (the Zionist
              Congresses) and quickly became familiar all over the
              world.
The book 'The Music
              of Israel' (1949) states that Shmuel Cohen had
              borrowed the tune from a cantorial composition by the
              famous Cantor Nissan Belzer. In any event, it does
              represent a type which has been familiar in Spanish
              folk singing for centuries. Pendrell, the well-known
              Spanish folklore expert quotes a very similar tune
              under the title of 'Virgen de la Cueva' ('Virgin of
              the Cave'). It would seem that the Sephardic Jews
              knew it in Spain and took it along with them to the
              near east. It is interesting to note that the same
              tune can be found among the Poles ('Pod Krakovem') ,
              the Basques, and even the Netherlanders.
Top of Page
ITALY / ITALIA
When the Italian Republic emerged from the turmoil
              following the Second World War, it had no official
              National Anthem. Unofficially the 'Inno di Mameli'
              came to be used. It gets its name from the author of
              the text, the poet and patriot GOFFREDO MAMELI
              (1827-1849).
It proceeds in a vein of fairly aggressive
              patriotism which claims that God created victory as a
              servant of the fatherland. Mameli wrote this battle
              hymn in November 1847. In 1848, he served as a
              volunteer under Garibaldi in Lombardy and in 1849
              became Chief of Staff of the Roman Republic. The
              'Fratelli d'Italia' was set to music almost
              immediately by MICHELE NOVARO (1822-1885), and
              throughout Italy it helped awaken interest in the
              growing revolutionary movement.
The march has a forceful introduction, marked
              andant maestoso, in triplet rhythms which are carried
              throughout the entire first section in the
              accompaniment. The vocal line itself has an energetic
              motive of dotted eighths evidently intended to
              symbolize the marching Italians. The same motive is
              carried through the middle section of the National
              Anthem, which modulates to the subdominant, after
              which it returns to the main key.
Top of Page
JAPAN / NIHON
'Kimigayo', the title of the National Anthem of
              Japan, means 'The Reign of Our Emperor'.
The words of anonymous authorship have been taken
              from the seventh volume of 'Kokinshu' dating from the
              9th century.
In 1860, John William Fenton, the Irishman who
              was the first bandmaster of the Japanese Army,
              composed a melody for 'Kimigayo'. This was used until
              1881 when a committee was appointed to select a more
              suitable melody. The composition submitted by
              HIROMORI HAYASHI (1831-1896), a Court musician, was
              finally selected. It had been composed primarily for
              traditional Japanese instruments and it was found
              necessary to harmonize this piece according to the
              Western musical scale. Franz Eckert (1852-1916), a
              German bandmaster and successor to Fenton, harmonized
              the melody to the Gregorian scale which was the basis
              of medieval Church music. Thus, the stately harmony
              has an almost religious solemnity. This version was
              played at Court for the first time on the Emperor
              Meiji 's birthday on November 3 1880.
'Kimigayo' was officially adopted as Japan's
              National Anthem on August 12 1893.
Top of Page
KOREA (South) / KORAI
It is generally believed that the words of the
              National Anthem of the Republic of South Korea, were
              written towards the end of the 19th century by either
              YUN CH'I-HO (1865-1946), a politician, or by
              
              AN CH'ANG-HO (1878-1938), an independence leader and
              educator.
The composer of the music of the National Anthem
              was AHN EAKTAY (1905-1965). He was born in Pyongyang,
              now the capital of North Korea. He first studied
              music at a conservatory in Japan, majoring in the
              cello. In 1930, he went to the United States to study
              at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia and
              later at the music department of Cincinnati Bible
              Seminary. Eaktay entered the Franz Liszt Academy of
              Music in Budapest in 1936. In 1937, he studied under
              the tutelage of Richard Strauss in Vienna and
              composed the music of the National Anthem. In that
              year, he became the permanent conductor of the
              Mallorca Orchestra in Madrid. Thereafter, he served
              also as guest conductor for more than 200 orchestras
              around the world and composed many works.
During Japanese colonial rule (1910-1945), the use
              of the National Anthem was banned but overseas
              Koreans continued to sing it to express a yearning
              for national independence. Eaktay's composition was
              officially adopted by the Provisional Korean
              Government (1919-1945) in Shanghai, China. It was
              later sung at a ceremony celebrating the founding of
              the Republic of Korea Government on August 15 1948,
              following national liberation in 1945. Thus, it
              informally became the National Anthem of the Republic
              of South Korea.
Top of Page
LEBANON / LUBNAN
The National Anthem of Lebanon is a regular
              strophic song of three stanzas. The words were
              written in Arabic by Lebanon's noted poet, RACHID
              NAKHL (1873-1939).
The musical setting is the work of WADIH SABRA
              (1876-1952), who was Director of the Lebanese
              Conservatory of Music. It was the winning entry in a
              contest sponsored by the Lebanese Parliament. It
              should be performed at a quick tempo in keeping with
              its tenor of military severity. The spirit it
              breathes is rather that of the French mandate than of
              Arab nationalism.
The National Anthem was adopted officially by a
              Presidential decree of July 12 1927.
Top of Page
MALAYSIA
It was not until 1956 that anything concrete was
              done about the choice of a National Anthem for the
              then Federation of Malaya. Up to that time, each of
              the eleven States that made up the Federation had
              their own State Anthems but there was no single
              National Anthem or patriotic song of any sort for the
              whole country. In the year, with independence just
              around the corner, TUNGKU ABDUL RAHMAN (1903-1990),
              then Chief Minister and Minister for Home Affairs set
              up a Committee for the purpose of choosing a National
              Anthem suitable for Malaya. On his suggestion, a
              worldwide competition was launched and 514 entries
              from all over the world were received.
After going through the entries, the Committee
              felt that none of the entries were suitable and it
              was then decided to invite selected composers of
              international repute to submit compositions for
              consideration by the panel. The composers' chosen
              were Benjamin Britten (1913-1976), Sir William Walton
              (1902-1983), Carlo Menotti (b.1911) and Zubir Said
              (1907-1987) (who later composed the National Anthem
              of Singapore). Although the compositions submitted
              were of a high standard, they were still not
              considered suitable as the National Anthem.
The Committee then decided to hear the State
              Anthems to find out if any of them might be suitable.
              The final selection was made on August 5 1957 and an
              adaptation of the Perak State Anthem was selected on
              account of the traditional flavour of its melody. The
              lyrics for the National Anthem were written jointly
              by the Panel of Judges with the Tengku himself
              playing the leading part. Up to the time of the
              choice of this melody as the National Anthem of the
              country, it was, while still the State Anthem of
              Perak, also a well-known and popular Malay song under
              the title, 'Terang Bulan' ('Bright Moon'). The song
              was very popular on the island of Mahé in the
              Seychelles where the Sultan of Perak, was living in
              exile. It was played by a French band, which gave
              public concerts on the island. It is believed that
              this melody was composed by a Frenchman, PIERRE JEAN
              de BERANGER (1780-1857), who was born and died in
              Paris. The tune was later introduced into an
              Indonesian Bangsawan (Opera), which was performing in
              Singapore. In no time at all, the melody became
              extremely popular and was given the name 'Terang
              Bulan'. Side by side with its dignity and prestige as
              the Perak State Anthem, the tune became a Malayan
              'evergreen', playing at parties, in cabarets and sung
              by almost everybody. Many Malaysians who grew up in
              the 1920's and 1930's have fond memories of this
              tune. Today, of course, since independence, it is not
              played as a popular melody.
'Terang Bulan' was a love song. The 'Negara ku'
              ('My Country') is also a love song - a song of the
              love of the people for their country, a song
              depicting the charm and the peacefulness, the gaiety
              and the tolerance of the people of Malaysia.
In 1993, the Malaysian Government approved the
              re-arrangement of the tempo of the National Anthem
              into a "fast march" tempo (from 96 beats per minute
              to 126). In accordance with the National Anthem Act,
              1968, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong gave his consent to
              the change on August 20 1993 and the new version was
              played for the first time during the National Day
              celebrations on August 31 1993.
History of the
              Malaysian State Anthems
Top of Page
MEXICO / MÉXICO
In December 1853, General Santa Anna offered a
              prize for the best patriotic poem. Twenty-six poems were
              submitted to the adjudicators, and the winning version
              was that by
              FRANCISCO GONZÁLEZ BOCANEGRA (1824-1861) which
              contained ten verses. The General then followed this
              up in February 1854, with an offer of a prize to the
              musician who sent in the best setting to this poem.
              Sixteen musicians sent in their efforts, and the
              prize of five hundred dollars was awarded to the
              Spaniard JAIME NUNÓ (1824-1908), who at the time
              was conductor of the National Music Band.
He was born in Gerona, Catalonia, and left Mexico
              shortly after the success of his National Anthem
              entry and settled down in Buffalo, in the United
              States. In 1901, Nunó visited Mexico, was given
              a national reception, and received a chaplet of gold,
              a silver medal, and a purse of money. In October
              1942, his mortal remains were taken back to Mexico
              City where they were laid to rest in great state in
              the Hall of Heroes which houses also the body of
              Bocanegra. The National Anthem had its première
              on September 16 1854 in Mexico City at the Teatro de
              Santa-Anna which later became known as the National
              Theatre.
No doubt, the Mexican National Anthem does have a
              dash and vigour all its own. Its march rhythms are
              contagious and the modulation to E flat major brings
              out a particularly solemn quality.
Top of Page
NETHERLANDS / NEDERLAND
The Dutch National Anthem 'Wilhelmus' is the
              oldest authentically of all National Anthems
              (compared with the uncertain age of the National
              Anthem of the United Kingdom). It stems from the era
              of Dutch heroism, of the Dutch people's struggle
              against Spanish oppressors for freedom in politics
              and religion and is a folksong in the truest sense of
              the term.
The words were written in about 1568, possibly by
              the poet and diplomat PHILIP van MARNIX of
              ST.ALDEGONDE (1540-1598), the faithful friend and
              ardent supporter of Prince Willem I of Orange-Nassau.
              In 1568, Prince Willem, who had fled The Netherlands
              the previous year together with thousands of his
              compatriots who were opposed to Spanish rule,
              attempted to free his country from tyranny and
              religious persecution, but his three invasions were
              completely without success. In 'Wilhelmus' the poet
              depicts the Prince addressing the oppressed people of
              The Netherlands in this terrible and dramatic
              situation.
The music of 'Wilhelmus' is based on a melody,
              which was popular in France around 1568, alternating
              between four/four and three/four time. Since 1626,
              'Wilhelmus' has been included in 'Nederlandtsche
              Gedenck-clanck tot Haarlem', by ADRIAAN VALERIUS
              (1575-1625) a well-known collection of national
              songs.
The song is composed in the style of the sixteenth
              century literary societies, as can be seen from the
              fact that the initial letters of the fifteen verses
              form the name W-I-L-L-E-M  V-A-N  N-A-S-S-O-V; 
              
              however, its sober language and the deep feelings
              which inspired it make 'Wilhelmus' far superior to
              the fashionable works of that period. The general
              tenor is not one of confidence in victory but rather
              of resignation and at best of hope for comfort and
              redress in the life hereafter.
When the National Anthem is actually sung, the
              usual practice is to take only the first and sixth
              verses. In the first, Prince Willem professes that he
              will remain true to his country unto death, while in
              the sixth he prays to God for strength to rid the
              land of tyranny. Especially in periods of oppression
              these verses have held a strong appeal for the people
              of The Netherlands.
The National Anthem was officially adopted on May
              10 1932.
Montage of Four Queens of the
              Netherlands
Top of Page
NEW ZEALAND
'God Defend New Zealand' is sung on all special
              occasions. The text was written by
              
              THOMAS BRACKEN (1843-1898). He was born in Ireland,
              but went to New Zealand early in life. There he
              engaged primarily in newspaper work, although for a
              time he was a Member of Parliament. He wrote the
              words of 'God Defend New Zealand' in 1878. The
              original edition was published with both English and
              Maori texts.
The 'Saturday Advertiser' offered a prize for the
              best musical setting of it. The winning entry was by
              
              JOHN JOSEPH WOODS (1849-1934), an Australian, who was
              teaching at the time in New Zealand. It was a very
              simple marching song with a choral refrain.
It was officially adopted in 1977.
Top of Page
NICARAGUA
The first National Anthem of Nicaragua was a
              religious piece of music without words and was used
              to honour the President of the Assembly and Federal
              Court. Described as an anonymous psalm - a kind of
              liturgical chant brought to Nicaragua in 1821 by a
              monk called Anselmo Castinove (believed to have been
              born in Toledo, Spain). Between 1835-1837 it was
              adopted as the official National Anthem. According to
              findings made by Gilbert Vega Miranda in the
              Guatemalan colonial archives, another composer was
              believed to have been the Jesuit Father Gómez.
              It was in use until 1876, when the National Anthem
              was changed. The National Anthem was again changed in
              1893. When the Conservative Revolution took place in
              1910, the new government decided to bring back the
              original religious hymn which had been composed in
              Guatemala by Father Gómez. But since the written
              music could not be found in the archives, the old
              people were asked to reconstruct the National Anthem
              and the Professor of the National Institute, Marco
              Antonio Ortega, was commissioned to write the
              'emergency' words for it. This hymn was immediately
              accepted as the official National Anthem.
The well-known composer of the Milan Conservatory
              LUID ABRAHAM DELGADILLO (1887-1961) who was born in
              Managua, was asked to add the instrumentation so it
              could be played by a band. But the people wanted a
              stable National Anthem, and in 1918 under President
              Emiliano Chamorro there was a contest to put new
              words to the National Anthem; the only rules were
              that there should be: 1. Two verses about peace and
              work, 2. Peace and work should be the only topics,
              and 3. The words should fit the music. The winner was
              the Nicaraguan poet, SALOMÓN IBARRA MAYORGA
              (1890-1985). The author moved to Honduras in 1972
              after the massive earthquake which devastated
              Managua. The music isn't exactly the same as the old
              hymn since Delgadillo gave it a new and majestic
              form; so he can be considered the composer.
The National Anthem was officially adopted in 1939
              by a government decree.
Top of Page
NORWAY / NORGE
The original version of 'Ja, vi elsker' ("Yes, we
              love') was written by BJRNSTJERNE BJRNSON
              
              (1832-1910) in 1859. 'Ja, vi elsker is in content
              essentially historical, though there is also some
              description of the Norwegian landscape, it is also
              coloured by Bjrnson's great eloquence, his marvellous
              faculty for rousing the enthusiasm of the masses with
              a few striking words. He wrote it when he was
              beginning to embark on that career as a public
              speaker for which he is renowned in Norwegian
              history. Typical of  Bjrnson too is his daring to
              begin a poem with the little, everyday word 'Ja'
              ('Yes'). 'Ja, vi elsker' did not acquire its final
              form till 1863 (the few alterations made in 1869 are
              quite unimportant). In this 1863 version one stanza
              was deleted and three new ones were added. The last
              of these new stanzas begins with a repetition of the
              first four lines of the magnificent opening stanzas
              of the poem, then continues, in four new lines, with
              a powerful forward looking pledge to follow the
              example of those forebears who fought victoriously
              for Norway in times of distress (the English
              translation does not render the meaning of the
              original accurately on this point). Thus Bjrnson has
              combined in one song devotion and enthusiasm, modesty
              and strength. Bjrnson put it this way: 'Our National
              Anthem is that of a small, peace-loving nation, but
              if it is sung in the hour of danger, determination
              clad in armour speaks from every line".
'Ja, vi elsker' became Norway's National Anthem on
              May 17 1864, the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption
              of the Constitution which the people of Norway gave
              to themselves. It was sung for the first time on that
              day at Eidsvoll; Bjrnson was a guest at the solemn
              ceremony along with the Norwegian Government and
              Parliament. In its fullest form 'Ja, vi elsker'
              consists of eight verses. When the National Anthem is
              actually sung, the usual practice is to take only the
              first and last two verses of the poem.
'Ja, vi elsker' certainly owes much of its
              popularity to the tune composed by the young
              Norwegian composer RIKARD NORDRAAK (1842-1866) in
              1863.
Nordraak and Bjrnson had much in common - they
              were in fact cousins - and the solemnity and
              gentleness of Bjrnson's poetry are admirably
              reflected in Nordraak's settings. Nordraak did not
              realise that 'Ja, vi elsker' was to be the National
              Anthem and so arranged it for a quartet of male
              voices. When Nordraak died in 1866 at the early age
              of twenty-four, Norway lost in him one of her most
              promising sons. Naturally he did not leave behind him
              a great body of music but he will always be
              remembered for his fine songs and, of course, above
              all for his setting of 'Ja, vi elsker'. In a speech
              in which he compares Nordraak's setting of his own
              poem with other National Anthems, Bjrnson said:
              "...either they make a melancholy impression or else
              they breathe insurrection, or, alternatively, they
              are pure idylls. But this National Anthem of ours is
              free and open as the day, it soars upwards without a
              threat, it shows determination unmarred by boasting".
              And Grieg, the man in whom we see Nordraak's work
              carried on, said of his friend: "...he lived and died
              with a firm faith in Norway's future. This faith he
              instils into us even today - through his national
              music".
Montage of Three Kings of
              Norway
Top of Page
PAKISTAN
The composer of the National Anthem of Pakistan
              AHMED GHULAMALI CHAGLA (1902-1953) was born into a
              family which had taken to the marine and fishery
              business. Versatile like most artistes, he was a
              musician, a free-lance journalist, playwright and art
              critic. Early in life, he devoted himself to a
              serious study of music. In 1928 he qualified from
              Trinity College of Music in London. His experience
              and study of music, however were of extreme vastness.
              Besides classical music, he excelled in orchestral,
              operatic classical composing and conducting of
              European music. He also studied Iranian and Arabic
              music. He composed music for a number of Urdu,
              Gujarati, Sindhi and English plays. He was music
              director of a film company until 1933. In this
              capacity he composed music on eastern and western
              instruments for various films. He was also a widely
              travelled person. These travels were study
              tours-cum-business. After his return from abroad in
              1947, he wrote a series of articles on music, art and
              culture of the countries he visited during his
              travels.
In December 1948 a committee was constituted by
              the government in selecting a suitable National
              Anthem and to make recommendations in this regard. In
              view, however, of the fact that a foreign head of
              state was to visit Pakistan, the need for a National
              Anthem became very pressing.
Chagla being a member of the tune subcommittee was
              therefore asked to produce a musical composition in
              consultation with another member and assisted by the
              band of the Pakistan Navy. He produced the tune
              within a fortnight and played it before the then
              Prime Minister along with some members. The tune was
              selected to be played then and later during the Prime
              Minister's visit to the USA. The recording of the
              tune was finally played by the National Anthem
              Committee on August 10 1950, and approved.
The music was officially accepted in December 1953
              and the words by another member of the National
              Anthem Committee ABU-AL-ASAR HAFEEZ JULLANDHURI
              (1900-1982) officially accepted in August 1954.
Top of Page
THE PHILIPPINES / PILIPINAS
The Philippines have a National Anthem which
              evolved from a patriotic march by the professional
              composer and musician JULIAN FELIPE (1861-1944). He
              was a skilled pianist and earned his living as a
              music teacher. Being a patriot, he took part in the
              revolutionary activities and was arrested when the
              revolution erupted, fortunately, he was sick so that
              he was set free. He joined the revolutionary forces
              under General Emilio Aguinaldo (Filipino leader in
              the rebellion against Spain during the years from
              1896 to 1898) and became captain of the army band.
              The National Anthem was composed in 1898 at the
              request of the General. It embodies some striking
              reminiscences of the old order as represented by the
              Spanish Royal March and again - in what came to be
              the C major refrain of the National Anthem - it
              suggests a strong influence of 'La marseillaise'. But
              these dependencies do not lessen the appeal of its
              forceful and spirited pace. Under the title of
              'Marcha Nacional Filipina' ('Filipino National
              March'), it was performed for the first time in
              conjunction with the reading of the Act of
              Proclamation of Philippine Independence on June 12
              1898.
The poem written for it is by JOSÉ PALMA
              (1876-1903) poet-soldier of the revolution. He
              studied in Manila, where he distinguished himself in
              literature. When the revolution broke out in August
              1896, he joined the revolutionary troops. Two years
              later, he joined the staff of the newspaper 'La
              Independencia' and edited its Tagalog section. When
              the war for Philippine independence began in February
              1899, the Tagalog section was discontinued. He
              returned to the army, and once more fought as a
              soldier. In August 1899 tiring of military life, he
              rejoined the staff of 'La Independencia'. In a
              railway depot in Bautista, Pangasinan, he wrote the
              patriotic poem, 'Filipinas', in order to supply the
              words of the National Anthem. The poem was published
              (in Spanish) for the first time in 'La Independencia'
              on September 3 1899 - later a Tagalog translation was
              made.
After the war, he engaged in journalistic writing
              to earn his living. He died at the age of 27.
Top of Page
POLAND / POLSKA
From generation to generation the Poles have kept
              their firm faith in a future rebirth of their
              country. The Polish National Anthem is a symbol of
              this faith. After the third partition of Poland, in
              1795, when Prussia, Russia and Austria had swallowed
              up the country which had been weakened by internal
              troubles, the Polish patriots looked to France as the
              saviour in their greatest need. It was then that
              Polish legions were formed within the French
              revolutionary armies, particularly on Italian soil
              and through the initiative of General Dabrowski
              (1755-1818) who had previously made a name for
              himself by taking part in Kosciuszko's revolt of
              1794.
The words (written in 1797) are by JÓZEF
              WYBICKI (1747-1822), when he was serving as a
              legionary in Italy, and the National Anthem was sung
              when General Dabrowski, commander of the Polish
              legions, entered Poznań in 1806.
The music is ascribed to MICHAL KLEOFAS
              OGIŃSKI (1765-1833). The tune is typically
              Polish, it is a mazurka whose rhythm, is of course
              perfect for a march as well. In a slightly different
              form it came to be associated in the nineteenth
              century with the pan-Slavonic anthem 'Hej slovane'
              which is now used as the National Anthem of Serbia
              and Montenegro. In 1927, it was authorised as its
              National Anthem by the new Polish republican
              government. In 1948, a new harmonized version was
              approved by the Polish Ministry of Culture and
              Arts.
Top of Page
ROMANIA / ROMÂNIA
The patriotic song of the 1848 Revolution
              'Desteapta-te române!' ('Wake Up Romanians!')
              was adopted as Romania's National Anthem in April
              1990. The lyrics belong to poet ANDREI MURESANU
              (1816-1863) and the music to folklorist ANTON PANN
              (1796-1854). It is an interesting fact that the two
              creators had written the poem and music
              independently, that for almost ten years when the
              poem and the melody were brought together they
              circulated separately, under different titles before
              the outbreak of the 1848 Revolution, that the song
              preceded the lyrics, and that the melody and the poem
              were brought together by psalm singer Gheorghe
              Ucenescu (1830-1896).
In 1850, Anton Pann published his song in the
              collection 'Spitalul amorului' ('Love's Hospital') in
              spite of the fact that the 1848 Revolution made of it
              a patriotic song. The lyrics had been written in
              1842, the eleven stanzas being published for the
              first time in the June 25 1848 issue of the magazine
              'Foaie pentru Minte, Inima si Literatura' of Brasov.
              Being excessively long only the first stanzas of
              'Desteapta-te române!' used to be sung (even the
              present National Anthem retains only four of Andrei
              Muresanu's stanzas). The new 'Romanian Marsellaise'
              (as the 1848 revolutionaries called it) circulated
              throughout the territories inhabited by Romanians.
              Although forbidden for several decades after the
              Second World War, the song has been subsequently
              reintegrated in the Romanian patriotic
              repertoire.
Full of historical significance for the Romanian
              people, 'Desteapta-te române!' has imposed
              itself as the centuries-old anthem of a nation
              longing for freedom and social justice.
Top of Page
SOUTH AFRICA / SUID-AFRIKA
'Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika'
The words and music of 'Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika'
              ('God Bless Africa') were composed as a hymn by ENOCH
              MANKAYI SONTONGA (1860-1904) in 1897. Sontonga was a
              teacher in one of the Methodist Mission Schools in
              the township of Nacefield near Johannesburg. He had a
              gift for sound and constantly composed pieces, words
              and music for the use of his pupils' entertainment.
              He hoped to print his collection of compositions but
              died before his ambition was realised. Since then
              various teachers and choir conductors came to borrow
              the manuscripts and 'Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika' was
              publicly sung for the first time in 1899. It was sung
              in all provinces and steadily gained recognition as
              the people's National Anthem. The first verse has
              survived as the basis of the popular National Anthem
              today. The ANC (African National Congress) adopted
              'Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika' as its National Anthem in
              1925, and many organisations and churches followed
              suit.
The song has become the National Anthem also of
              Tanzania and Zambia. 'Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika' is
              closely associated with and symbolises the struggle
              of the people for a democratic South Africa.
'Die Stem van Suid-Afrika'
After the birth of the Union of South Africa in
              1910, the search started for a National Anthem with a
              South African idiom that could be used in either
              official languages - 'Die Stem van Suid-Afrika' ('The
              Call of South Africa') fulfilled these needs.
It was a poem written by CORNELIS JACOB
              LANGENHOVEN (1873-1932) on May 30 and 31 1918.
              Originally there were only three verses, by a request
              a fourth followed a few days later. A national
              competition was held to get the best possible music,
              sponsored by 'Die Burger', a Cape newspaper. In April
              1919, MARTHINUS LOURENS de VILLIERS (1885-1977) made
              a first attempt, but it did not satisfy Langenhoven.
              After he had tried several others, de Villiers
              finally came forward with an acceptable tune in 1921.
              For many years the lyrics were accompanied by
              different melodies. This popular tune contributed
              greatly to the general adoption of 'Die Stem' as a
              National Anthem. After his retirement de Villiers
              made 17 journeys throughout the country, and visited
              many schools. When the South African Broadcasting
              Corporation started to close its daily broadcasts
              from its Cape studio with both 'God Save the King'
              and 'Die Stem', the general public also became
              familiar with it. In 1932 the 'Federasie van
              Afrikaanse Kultuurverenigings', then a new cultural
              organisation, announced a competition for the best
              lyrics and composition to be used as the official
              National Anthem. Fifty five poems were sent in and
              forty compositions. It was not surprising, therefore,
              that in 1936 the poem by Langenhoven and the
              composition by de Villiers were unanimously accepted
              by the selection committee of the aforementioned
              organisation.
In 1938, the then Prime Minister, decided that
              'Die Stem' should be played at the opening of
              Parliament, together with 'God Save the King'. It was
              not till May 2 1957, however, that another Prime
              Minister announced in Parliament that the government
              had accepted 'Die Stem' as the official National
              Anthem of South Africa.
Official acceptance intensified the search for a
              suitable English translation. In 1952, a special
              committee, comprising eminent South Africans, finally
              recommended a translation made from the best parts of
              more than 220 translations submitted. The then Prime
              Minister accepted it for official use, in the same
              year the National Anthem was sung in English for the
              first time, the occasion was the Van Riebeeck
              Festival in Cape Town. The English version was
              revised in 1959.
With effect from April 27 1994, South Africa
              adopted two official National Anthems, 'Die Stem' and
              'Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika'. On May 17 1995, with
              Cabinet approval, the National Anthems were shortened
              and merged into one version for ceremonial purposes.
              The new shortened version comprises five of South
              Africa's official languages; it starts with 'Nkosi
              Sikelel' iAfrika' in Xhosa and Zulu (both being Nguni
              languages) and Sotho, and is followed by the opening
              lines of 'Die Stem' in Afrikaans and ends with an
              excerpt of 'The Call of South Africa' in English. The
              five languages referred to above are the only
              languages used.
Top of Page
SPAIN / ESPAÑA
The National Anthem of Spain is 'Marcha Real'
              ('Royal March'). Its origin is disputed. There are
              those who claim that it was composed by a German and
              that King Frederick the Great handed it in 1770 as a
              gift for King Carlos III to Count Aranda who had come
              to Berlin to study the organization of the Prussian
              army. By royal decree of September 3 1770, it was
              officially recognised as a 'March of Honour'.
According to another tradition the tune was
              originally French and was brought to Spain by King
              Philip V. It became popular under the name of 'Marcha
              Grenadere'. Then, under King Carlos III, the court
              oboist Espinosa reset it for military orchestras
              after the model of the type of march in vogue under
              King Frederick the Great. It is rather slow - about
              sixty paces a minute - and makes a solemn rather than
              a fiery impression.
It is interesting to note that in 1870 King Amadeo
              I invited public competition for a Spanish National
              Anthem. The prize he offered was considerable, but
              none of the 447 contestants was crowned with success,
              and the old royal march remained in force. It is
              strange that it shows no trace of Spanish folklore,
              but in its simplicity and especially through its
              somewhat archaic concluding phrases it is the musical
              symbol of the grandeza of the Spanish people.
In July 1942, General Franco issued a decree
              declaring it as the National Anthem.
There are no official words, though various
              writers have written verses at different times,
              namely EDUARDO MARQUINA (1879-1946), JOSÉ
              MARÍA PEMÁN (1897-1981) and
              
              MANUEL J GONZÁLEZ RIERA.
Top of Page
SWEDEN / SVERIGE
The text of 'Du gamla, du fria' ('Thou ancient,
              thou freeborn'), was written by folklorist and ballad
              writer RICHARD DYBECK (1811-1877) and set to a folk
              melody which he had heard in the middle of the 19th
              century from the province of Västmanland. It
              cannot be so very old, for its modern tonality points
              to a period not earlier than the beginning of that
              century.
Around 1880-1890 it started to be sung more
              frequently and in the course of time it has come to
              be regarded as the National Anthem of Sweden.
Top of Page
SWITZERLAND / HELVETIA
ALBERICH ZWYSSIG (1808-1854), who was a monk as
              well as a musician, adapted the music to the text by
              LEONHARD WIDMER (1808-1868) in 1841, it was
              originally contained in one of his Gradual settings.
              The anthem was printed for the first time in May
              1843, and in the same year it was heard at a singing
              festival in Zürich. In 1961, it was adopted for
              a trial period of three years as the official anthem
              for the army and for Swiss representations abroad. In
              1965, twelve of the Swiss cantons declared themselves
              wholeheartedly in favour of the anthem; seven cantons
              voted to prolong the trial period, and the other six
              (which included Zürich) found the anthem
              unsuitable. It was therefore decided to postpone a
              final decision and to extend the trial period
              indefinely.
Top of Page
TAIWAN
The music was composed by CHENG MAO-YUN
              (1900-1957) and was the winning entry out of 139
              contenders in a public competition held for a party
              song organized by the Kuomintang in 1928, and it
              became the National Anthem of China when the
              Kuomintang came into power. The tune is simple and
              keeps the balance between Western melodies and the
              native pentatonic system without half tones.
The words were by SUN YAT-SEN (1866-1925) and were
              taken from a speech which this poet, philosopher and
              politician had addressed to the students of the
              Whampoa Military Academy. The opening words, "San Min
              Chu I," signify the three principles of the people.
              This is a reference to Dr. Sun's political philosophy
              which he had formulated as early as 1898 in terms of
              the three basic ideals of nationalism, democracy and
              socialism. Sun's revolutionary aims, from 1905 on,
              were consciously interpreted as the implementation of
              the three principles in all spheres of government and
              administration.
When the Chinese Nationalist Government was exiled
              to the island of Taiwan, it was retained and
              officially adopted as the National Anthem of Taiwan
              in 1949.
Top of Page
THAILAND / MUANG TAI
In 1934, the Government appointed a committee to
              select music written and arranged by talented Thai
              composers. Finally the music (composed in 1932) by
              PHRA CHEN-DURIYANG (1883-1968) won the competition.
              There was also a competition for the words of the
              National Anthem - two written by Khun Vichitmatra and
              Nai Chant Khamvilai respectively were selected and
              the official announcement of the new National Anthem
              was made on August 20 1934. In 1935 the National
              Anthem was modified to another form.
On February 5 1935 the regulations of performing
              the National Anthem and also the Siamese Royal Anthem
              of 1871 were introduced.
In 1939 the name of the country was changed from
              Siam to Thailand, so once again the National Anthem
              had to be changed to make it compatible with the
              country's new name. Writers were invited to send
              their creative works in for the competition. This was
              a significant event as there were many more
              competitors taking part and it was left to the
              Cabinet to make the final judgement. LUANG
              SARANUPRAPAN (1896-1954) won the first prize.
On December 10 1939, the new National Anthem was
              officially introduced to the public. This National
              Anthem is still being officially used today.
Top of Page
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN / UK
The first mention of 'God Save the King' may not
              refer to the National Anthem at all, but it is worth
              a note. This seems to date from the reign of King
              Henry VIII. There was a gathering of the Fleet at
              Portsmouth in 1545, and the watchword at night was
              similar to the modern words of the National Anthem.
              The watchword was "God Save the King" - and the reply
              was "Long to reign over us".
There is strong evidence that the song was
              borrowed from the French. A well-known French
              historian has a passage in one of his books which,
              when translated, runs "JEAN BAPTISTE LULLY
              (1632-1687) composed also the music of a song called
              'God Save the King', which the English afterwards
              borrowed and which they made into their National
              Anthem". This was in the reign of King Louis XIV.
              William Chappell, who wrote learnedly about music,
              declared that HENRY CAREY (1690-1743) wrote 'God Save
              the King'; while another equally learned authority
              asserted that the authorship of the words was
              unknowable and that the music was composed by JOHN
              BULL (1562-1628). The Carey story states that he
              wrote the National Anthem for a birthday celebration
              for King George II, writing words and music which
              were first heard at a banquet at Mercer's Hall,
              Cheapside in London. Carey died in 1743, but he did
              not claim authorship of 'God Save the King'. One of
              the tutors of the famous composer Handel is said to
              have stated that Carey brought him the words and tune
              of the National Anthem asking him to correct the
              bass, but historians of music ridicule the story on
              the grounds that Carey was too accomplished a
              musician to need assistance. The great authority for
              the Carey claim was Carey's son, who wanted the
              pension (a sufficiently suspicious fact in itself).
              Some have given the music to GEORGE FREDERIC HANDEL
              (1685-1759), others to HENRY PURCELL (1659-1695),
              whilst the opinions of others said that Bull composed
              the tune and that the words were more or less already
              in being in other compositions.
Richard Clark, organist of Westminster Abbey,
              published a book in 1814 in which he declared that
              Carey was the composer. His statements were doubted,
              so Clark set himself to find out more about the tune.
              After eight years he proved, to his own satisfaction
              at any rate, that the National Anthem was written by
              BENJAMIN  JOHNSON (1574-1637) and the music by JOHN
              BULL. It was sung for the first time at Merchant
              Taylor's Hall on July 7 1607, by the gentlemen and
              children of His Majesty's Chapel Royal when King
              James I was present at the dinner given by the
              company on his escape from the Gunpowder Plot.
The earliest official recorded performances of
              'God Save the King' took place at the Drury Lane and
              Covent Garden Theatres, where the National Anthem was
              sung on several successive nights in September 1745
              following the defeat of Sir John Cope's army at
              Prestonpans. An arrangement by
              
              THOMAS AUGUSTINE ARNE (1710-1778) for Drury Lane is
              in the British Museum, and another version appeared
              in the 'Gentleman's Magazine' for October 1745 as 'a
              song for two voices', as sung at both the
              playhouses'.
During the nineteenth century the music of 'God
              Save the King' served as the National Anthem for many
              countries, and several independent German states. It
              is still used for the National Anthem of
              Liechtenstein.
The whole question is intricate and the evidence
              contradictory; yet there is something alluring in the
              fact that the best-known tune in the world should
              have no known composer. Let us rather think that it
              grew out of the national consciousness rather than
              that any one person was responsible.
Both the words and the music have undergone minor
              alterations since the 18th century, and no 'official'
              version has ever been approved. Only the first of the
              three strophes is now normally sung, and the
              tendentious second strophe ('Confound their
              politics/Frustrate their knavish tricks') is avoided
              altogether. As far as the music is concerned, only
              the last line is now subject to different renderings,
              each one of the following versions being frequently
              encountered:
The first of these three versions is generally
              preferred, but any movement towards a standardisation
              of the National Anthem's melody and harmony at this
              point, would do well to consider a return to Arne's,
              altogether sturdier version, for Drury Lane in
              1745:
Top of Page
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA / USA
The National Anthem of the United States of
              America is 'The Star-Spangled Banner'. The words were
              written on September 14 1814, on board a British
              frigate in Baltimore harbour, where the author,
              FRANCIS SCOTT KEY (1779-1843) had been detained after
              successfully petitioning for the release of a
              civilian friend. He was inspired to write the poem
              when he saw in the morning, the American flag still
              flying over Fort McHenry, which had withstood the
              British bombardment during the previous night.
Key fashioned his verses to fit the melody of 'To
              Anacreon in Heaven' by the English composer John
              Stafford Smith (c1750-1836), which was then very
              popular in America with its original words by Ralph
              Tomlinson.
John Stafford Smith published in 1799, in his
              fifth collection of glees, an arrangement of 'To
              Anacreon in Heaven'. This has led to his being
              mistakenly regarded as the composer of the tune,
              whose actual origin is unknown.
The words and music were officially designated as
              the National Anthem by Act of Congress, approved by
              the President, Herbert Hoover on March 3 1931.
Top of Page
VENEZUELA
The National Anthem of Venezuela is the oldest of
              all Latin-American National Anthems. Its text, is by
              VICENTE SALIAS (1786-1814), the music by JUAN
              JOSÉ LANDAETA (1780-1814). It was conceived in
              the wake of the country's early attempts to gain its
              independence. These were crushed and in due course
              both the poet and composer were executed in 1814.
              Their work was given the official status of a
              National Anthem by a Government decree of May 25
              1881.
This National Anthem is musically different from
              the other Latin-American National Anthems. Going back
              to the beginning of the nineteenth century, the
              'Venezuelan Marseillaise' did not arise under the
              stars of the Italian opera. Much rather might it be
              said to show kinship with German folk music. It is
              not possible to overlook in it a certain lack of
              organic coherence. But this detail would not seem to
              have interfered with the strong impact which its
              patriotic force has been exerting ever since.
Top of Page
HOME
SITE MAP
DOWNLOAD
REFERENCE
FACTS
HISTORY
BOOKS
BACK
TOP
Website design by Hallvord R. M. Steen -
      Copyright © 2005 Michael Jamieson Bristow -
      www.national-anthems.org