Wikipedia:GLAM/ARKive - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Background
2The project
3Events
4Templates and categories
5How to take part
Toggle How to take part subsection
5.1How to transfer content
5.2Inter-wiki
6Articles
3 comments
Toggle Articles subsection
6.1Donated texts
6.1.1Mammals
6.1.2Fish
6.1.3Birds
7Reptiles
2 comments
Toggle Reptiles subsection
7.1Amphibians
7.2Terrestrial + fresh water invertebrates
7.3Marine invertebrates
7.4Plants
7.5Fungi
7.6Work done
7.6.1Mammals
7.6.2Fishes
7.6.3Birds
7.6.4Reptiles
7.6.5Amphibians
7.6.6Terrestrial + fresh water invertebrates
7.6.7Marine invertebrates
7.6.8Plants
7.6.9Fungi
7.6.10Other
7.6.10.1Edited
7.6.10.2Created
7.6.11Nominated
7.6.11.1Did You Know
7.6.11.2Peer review
8Coverage elsewhere
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Wikipedia:GLAM/ARKive
Add languages
Add links
Project pageTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Wikipedia:GLAM
In the Summer of 2011, Wikimedia UK and ARKive are collaborating on a project to improve Wikipedia's articles on threatened species. This will involve sharing some of ARKive's text content with Wikipedia, and community outreach through online and offline events. This will involve a fixed-period in-residence role that we are calling Wikipedia Outreach Ambassador. Andy Mabbett, known on Wikipedia as User:Pigsonthewing, has been appointed to this role, starting on 11 July. He's written a blog post about the role.
Background[edit]
For background and contacts, please see the Wikimedia UK page for the project.
The project[edit]
The project will involve internal tasks of improving content and liaising with the Wikipedia and Wikiproject communities. Internal tasks will include:
Improving the target articles using text and references from an agreed selection of ARKive's fact-files. This includes both extending and improving the content of the articles and increasing the number of helpful wiki-links between articles.
Adding external links from target articles to relevant ARKive pages, on a wide range of specific species.
Informing other language Wikipedias of relevant articles in English, where this is not already being done by Wikipedia's processes.
Keeping relevant Wikiprojects informed of the improvement work.
Events[edit]
We held two events, on the afternoon, and again in the evening of 15 September, in Bristol, using the hashtag #GLAMARKive on Twitter.
You can read more about the events.
Templates and categories[edit]
{{ARKive attribute}} - for giving attribution (use in references section). Adds articles to the hidden category Wikipedia articles incorporating text from ARKive.
{{ARKive}} - for adding external links to articles. Adds articles to the hidden category ARKive links.
{{GLAMARKive}} - for talk pages of articles incorporating text donated by Wildscreen. Adds articles to the hidden category ARKive texts.
Category:Wikipedia-ARKive collaboration
How to take part[edit]
As part of this collaboration Wildscreen have kindly agreed to release the text (note: not images or other media) of 200 of their ARKive articles (listed below) under a CC-BY-SA 3.0 License and the GFDL. 
Those agreed to date are listed below, together with some suggested article sections for expansion.
How to transfer content[edit]
This is a detailed list; don't worry if you can only complete some of the steps.
Search ARKive to get to the appropriate page.
Click on the icon for "print fact sheet". (It is a little icon to the right of the "A"s, in the upperish right.)  This will give you all the text on one page, useful for cut and pasting.  You can also scroll through the individual tabs (same content though).
Decide which sections of text are helpful and transfer them to the Wiki article.  Some articles may only need a small update. Others that are stubby, can get a huge head start. Some can just use isolated sections. Make sure to transfer the list of Arkive references as well. (Easiest is just to transfer as a set into the Wiki article references section.)
Add {{ARKive}} in the external links section if appropriate. (Note the template instructions are helpful for understanding how to fill in the fields. Or compare how African elephant or other completed improvements do it.)
Format the refs, wikilink text, do any other quick edits to integrate.
To show attribution, insert {{ARKive attribute}} between the references header and the first reference.
Consider using this edit summary: Text from [[ARKive]] donated by [[Wildscreen]] under CC-BY-SA 3.0 & GFDL; see [[Wikipedia:GLAM/ARKive]]
Add {{GLAMARKive}} to the article's talk page.
Return to this page and strike-through the relevant item, below, so that we can keep track of progress.
Also, copy the link for the improved article to the relevant Work done section; please feel free to sign, so everyone can see how hard you're working ;-)
If additions were substantial, and eligible, investigate getting a WP:DYK award - you can ask on this project's talk page if you need help, or a nominator. Or seek Peer review with a view to obtaining good article or  featured article status.
For an example of how ARKive text can be incorporated into a Wikipedia article, please see this change to the African Elephant article.
Inter-wiki[edit]
Once articles are improved using the donated texts, editors are invited to:
translate them into other languages (or tell other people who might do so, about this project)
re-write them in simple English
Articles[edit]
Donated texts[edit]
Wildscreen have agreed to release their ARKive text about the following species (more to follow). Struck through titles have been improved, and moved to the section below.
Mammals[edit]
Arabian oryx: Biology
Aye-aye: Biology - reproduction
Bornean orang-utan: Description/Biology
Red-shanked douc: Threats/Conservation
European bison: Biology - diet/Conservation
Ganges river dolphin: Biology/Conservation
Giant anteater: Description/Biology
Indri: Description/Biology
Lion-tailed macaque: Biology
Proboscis monkey: Biology - reproduction
Red wolf: Biology
African elephant: Description/Range/Conservation
Asian elephant: Diet/Effect of their diet on environment
Western gorilla: Description
African wild dog: Biology/Conservation
African forest elephant: Biology
Amur leopard I'll work on this one Maxgecko (talk) 21:58, 15 September 2011 (UTC): BiologyReply[reply]
Giant armadillo: Description/Biology/Threats/Conservation
Argali
Beluga whale: threats
Black rhinoceros: conservation
Bush dog
Chimpanzee: threats and conservation
Forest elephant
Golden lion tamarin
Iberian lynx: threats and conservation
Mandrill: threats and conservation
Okapi: reproduction
Pygmy hog
Quokka
Spectacled bear
Takin
Yangtze river dolphin: biology
Kouprey
Narwhal: repro and conservation
Banteng
Fishing cat
Kit fox
Maned wolf
Mountain gazelle
Hippopotamus: threats and conservation
Saola
Mountain zebra
Pygmy marmoset
Gemsbok
Mouflon
Vaquita - Currently working on this Liabet (talk) 15:00, 15 September 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Aardvark
Fish[edit]
Southern stingray: Description/Biology
Pygmy seahorse: Description/Biology
Knysna seahorse: Description/Biology
Common seahorse: Description/Biology
Weedy seadragon: Description
Yellowfin tuna: Biology
Southern bluefin tuna: Biology
Manta ray: Biology
Scalloped hammerhead: Description/Biology
Humphead wrasse: Biology/Habitat/Range
Beluga: Description/Biology
Swordfish: Biology
Sand tiger shark: Description/Biology
Black sea bass (Stereolepis gigas): Description/Biology
Bull shark I'll edit this one angharad84 (UTC)]]: Biology
Nurse shark: Biology
Rainbow parrotfish: Description/Biology/Habitat
Atlantic halibut: Description/Biology/Habitat
Danube salmon: Description/Biology/Habitat
Giant guitarfish: Description/Biology/Habitat
Lemon shark: Description/Biology/Habitat
Birds[edit]
Galapagos penguin - has very few references in current Wikipedia article
Kakapo our article is an FA and would not benefit from incorporation of arkive content Calliopejen1 (talk) 00:22, 29 August 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Hyacinth macaw:
Great spotted kiwi:
whooping crane:
saker falcon
Andean flamingo
Bali starling
black-browed albatross
Black-necked crane
North Island Brown Kiwi
Japanese crane
African penguin
Fiordland crested penguin
Humboldt penguin
Maleo
royal penguin
takahe
Great snipe
Tawny eagle
Galapagos hawk
Great bustard
Southern rockhopper penguin
Swan goose
Blue bird of paradise
Imperial eagle
Blue swallow
Indian vulture
Red junglefowl
Gentoo penguinReptiles[edit]African rock python
Hawksbill turtle
Green iguana
Hermann's tortoise
Nile crocodile
Gila monster
Egyptian tortoise
Green anaconda
Rosy boa
Nile monitor
Common box turtle
tiger chameleon
Galapagos marine iguana
Greek tortoise
Chinese alligator
Black caiman
Dwarf crocodile
King ratsnake
Dwarf chameleon
African burrowing python
Rhinoceros iguana
Wood turtle
Alligator snapping turtle
Ornate box turtle
Cuban crocodile
Woma python
Pancake tortoise
Satanic leaf-tailed gecko
Brown leaf chameleon (Brookesia superciliaris) - new articleAmphibians[edit]Chinese giant salamander
Golden toad
Goliath frog
Japanese giant salamander
Dyscophus antongilii - basically replaced the few-line stub that was there
Darwin's frog
Western leopard toad
Waterfall frog
Mountain chicken
African giant toad
Mallorcan midwife toad
Sunset frog
Water frog - new articleTerrestrial + fresh water invertebrates[edit]Apollo butterfly
Coconut crab
Giant freshwater crayfish
Yabbie crayfish
Noble crayfish
Curlyhair Tarantula
Mexican Fireleg
Mexican redknee tarantula
Emperor Scorpion
Dracula ants
Stag beetle (Lucanus cervus)
Freshwater pearl mussel
Aldabra banded snail
Cook Strait giant wetaMarine invertebrates[edit]Giant clam
Horseshoe crab
Black abalone
Small giant clam
Southern giant clam
Fire corals (general page)Plants[edit]African blackwood
Boreal Felt Lichen
Bristlecone pine
coco de mer
Forest Coconut
Giant sequoia
Green pitcher plant
Jellyfish Tree
Maidenhair tree
Monkey puzzle
Pau brasil
Thief palm
Titan arum
Venus Fly trap
Wollemi Pine
Dracula vampira
Dragon Tree (Dracaena draco)
Baku (Tieghemella heckelii)
Olulu
Cretan dittany - I'll work on this. Jezhotwells (talk) 18:52, 15 September 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply]
Cretan date palm
Rafflesia (general page)
Fairy slipper orchid
Sapele
White mahogany
African walnut (Lovoa trichilioides)
Grandidier’s baobab  
lava cactus
Azobe
Lawson's cypress
Underground orchid (Rhizanthella gardneri)
Star cactus (Astrophytum asterias)
Eastern Cape dwarf cycad (Encephalartos caffer) - new articleFungi[edit]Bloxam's entoloma (Entoloma bloxamii) - new article
Pig's ear
Violet crown-cupour article would not benefit from incorporation of arkive content
Pepper pot our article would not benefit from incorporation of arkive content
Golden gilled boleteWork done[edit]Mammals[edit]African elephant - Andy Mabbett (User:Pigsonthewing)
Giant Armadillo - Aurous One
European bison - Aurous One
Bornean orangutan - Aurous One
Ganges river dolphin - Aurous One
Takin: (Diff) Expanded considerably. User:MartinPoulterFishes[edit]Southern stingray: (Diff) Expanded from a stub - Aurous
Atlantic halibut: (Diff)  Expanded somewhat - Cwmhiraeth
Manta ray: (Diff) Added description and part of biology. Cwmhiraeth
Knysna seahorse: (Diff) Added Description and Biology. Cwmhiraeth
Pygmy seahorse: (Diff)Added Description and Biology. Cwmhiraeth
Weedy seadragon: (Diff) LewiscjBirds[edit]Hyacinth macaw (diff) - Andy Mabbett (User:Pigsonthewing)
Blue Swallow (Diff) - Added description and biology. User:Cwmhiraeth
Gentoo penguin (diff) Bs5er (talk) 15:34, 15 September 2011 (UTC)Reply[reply]Reptiles[edit]Common box turtle: For this one, was able to quickly get from a stub to maybe a B class article in content.  Very helpful! TCO
Hawksbill turtle: No text transferred.  Could not find any gap that they help us with.  We have a featured article and it is pretty integrated.TCO
African rock python (Diff): xferred all ARKIVE text.  We had a C article, but takes us to B.  They have more length and a lot of our text was unreferenced.TCO
Brown leaf chameleon - new article (anon)
Pancake tortoise (Diff) - Calliopejen1
Satanic leaf-tailed gecko (448582170)  - added a couple of new sections and generally expanded and added references to others. Wikisamia
Hermann's tortoise (Diff) - Hula-Hoop
tiger chameleon (Diff)- Able to transfer almost directly a lot of the text to add sections and expand article. Also added image from commons - WikisamiaAmphibians[edit]Mountain chicken - anon
Water frog - new article - Andy Mabbett (User:Pigsonthewing)Terrestrial + fresh water invertebrates[edit]Apollo butterfly: Added several sections and linked refs. Dger
Curlyhair Tarantula - Bugboy52.40
Mexican Fireleg - Bugboy52.40
Freshwater pearl mussel done! Calliopejen1
Cook Strait giant weta (Diff)- Expanded from stub - Cwmhiraeth
Tasmanian giant freshwater crayfish (Diff)  - vastly expanded Andy Mabbett (Pigsonthewing)Marine invertebrates[edit]Maxima clam (small giant clam) (Diff) - No longer a stub.  Cwmhiraeth
Black abalone (Diff)
Fire corals (Diff) - CwmhiraethPlants[edit]Dracula vampira (Diff) expanded from a few line stub. SmartSE
Erioderma pedicellatum expanded conservation efforts. Graeme Bartlett
coco de mer threats conservation and habitat used. Graeme Bartlett
Bristlecone pine Tried to incorporate what I could but the ARKive article is pretty short and has at least one inaccuracy ("Bristlecone pines inhabit the harsh environments of the western Sierra Nevada Mountains, where there is very little moisture" - in fact the western Sierras are wetter than the eastern Sierras and these pines are more to the east, with many not even in the Sierras - see http://ucjeps.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/get_JM_treatment.pl?195,210,225 and http://ucjeps.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/get_JM_treatment.pl?195,210,213 ). More added there (Diff); and to Pinus longaeva (Diff).
Underground orchid (Diff) - Andy Mabbett (User:Pigsonthewing)
Jellyfish Tree redirects to Medusagyne (Diff) About doubled in size, no longer a stub. Graeme Bartlett
Star cactus (Astrophytum asterias) (Diff) Over 50% increase - Andy Mabbett (User:Pigsonthewing)
Encephalartos caffer new article Graeme Bartlett
Thief palm (Diff) - added description to stub article - Cwmhiraeth
Pau brasil (Diff) - Added description - Cwmhiraeth
Azobe (Diff) - Added description and biology. No longer a stub. - Cwmhiraeth
Green pitcher plant (Diff) - Elefunkie
Fungi[edit]
Bloxam's entoloma - new article (Diff) - Andy Mabbett (User:Pigsonthewing) + another
Golden-gilled bolete  (Diff) - improved from a one-sentence stub.
Pig's ear (Diff) - edited threats and conservation section (User:Inthefieldnews)
Other[edit]
Edited[edit]
The following articles have also been edited as part of this project:
ARKive
Wildscreen
Wildscreen Festival
Parnassius autocrator
Andrew Bloxam
Other articles had {{ARKive}} added
Various disambiguation pages
Relevant project talk/ to-do pages
Created[edit]
The following articles have been created as part of this project:
George McGavin (Wildscreen patron)
A great many redirects (differing capitalisations, common names to scientific names, alternative common names, etc.)
Nominated[edit]
Did You Know[edit]
On 31 July 2011, Did you know? was updated with a fact from the article Common box turtle, which GLAM/ARKive improved. The fact was ... that the male common box turtle (pictured) has to lean back past the vertical to mate with the female? If you know of an interesting fact from another recently created article, then please suggest it on the Did you know? talk page.
On 6 August 2011, Did you know? was updated with a fact from the article George McGavin, which you created or substantially expanded. The fact was ... that TV presenter George McGavin cooks and eat insects? You are welcome to check how many hits the article got while on the front page (here's how, quick check) and add it to DYKSTATS if it got over 5,000. If you know of another interesting fact from a recently created article, then please suggest it on the Did you know? talk page.
On 9 August 2011, Did you know? was updated with a fact from the article Encephalartos caffer, which you recently nominated. The fact was ... that the Eastern Cape dwarf cycad was one of the first three Cape cycads to be declared endangered by the Cape provincial nature conservation authorities? The nomination discussion and review may be seen at Template talk:Did you know/Encephalartos caffer. If you know of an interesting fact from another recently created article, then please suggest it on the Did you know? talk page.
On 16 August 2011, Did you know? was updated with a fact from the article Entoloma bloxamii, which you created or substantially expanded. The fact was ... that the fungus Bloxam's entoloma was named after an English clergyman? The nomination discussion and review may be seen at Template talk:Did you know/Entoloma bloxamii.You are welcome to check how many hits the article got while on the front page (here's how, quick check) and add it to DYKSTATS if it got over 5,000. If you know of another interesting fact from a recently created article, then please suggest it on the Did you know? talk page.
On 27 August 2011, Did you know? was updated with a fact from the article Deinacrida rugosa, which you recently nominated. The fact was ... that the male Cook Strait giant weta attracts mates using the aroma of its feces? The nomination discussion and review may be seen at Template:Did you know nominations/Deinacrida rugosa. If you know of an interesting fact from another recently created article, then please suggest it on the Did you know? talk page.
Peer review[edit]
African elephant
Coverage elsewhere[edit]
Fatbirder- 22 July 2011
Connecting Bristol - 8 September 2011
Bristol 24/7 - 16 September 2011
Life’s wild editing Wikipedia  - 16 September 2011
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:GLAM/ARKive&oldid=470509628"
Category: Wikipedia-ARKive collaboration
 This page was last edited on 9 January 2012, at 22:11 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width