Paul R Carr | Université du Québec en Outaouais - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Paul R CarrUniversité du Québec en Outaouais,  Education,  Faculty MemberSocial Policy+33I am originally from Toronto, and now reside in Montreal. I studied for two years in France in the early 1980s (a formative learning (and political) experience), and then undertook the rest of my university studies in Canada in the areas of political science, sociology and education. I completed my doctorate in the sociology of education at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto in 1996, with my thesis examining anti-racism and institutional culture in education.     From 2005 to 2010, I was an Assistant Professor at Youngstown State University, where I taught courses in multicultural education, the sociology of education, diversity and leadership, and qualitative methodology. I was then an Associate Professor in the Department of Sociology and the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies at Lakehead University (Orillia), which is 90 minutes north of Toronto, from 2010 to 2014. I am currently a Full Professor in the Department of Education at the Université du Québec en Outaouais in Gatineau, Quebec, Canada, which is part of the national capital region.      In 2016, I was awarded, along with Gina Thésée at UQAM as the Co-Chair, a UNESCO Chair in Democracy, Global Citizenship and Transformative Education (DCMÉT), which is based at the Université du Québec en Outaouais. The UNESCO Chair DCMÉT involves international work, projects and collaboration, adhering to UNESCO values and principles, and connecting with other UNESCO Chairs and partners and civil society groups as well as engaging with colleagues in the Global South.        My current research is broadly concerned with social justice, with specific threads related to democracy, media literacy, peace studies, intercultural relations, the environment, and transformational change.    I am influenced by the critical pedagogical movement/tradition/body of work, and am intellectually, socially and politically interested in Paulo Freire’s work and ideas around political literacy, transformation, conscientization, and radical love. Other scholars, such as Joe Kincheloe, Antonia Darder, Peter McLaren, Shirley Steinberg, Henry Giroux, Gina Thésée, George Dei, and Carl James, have further supported my thinking related to political sociology, oppression, human decency, and the quest for peace.     I have collaborated with a number of colleagues, and have co-edited around twenty books and authored or co-authored two others. Increasingly, I am working in Spanish, especially with colleagues in South America.    For a number of years, before becoming a professor, I worked as a Senior Policy Advisor on educational policy in the Ontario Government related to anti-racism, linguistic minority rights, Aboriginal education, special education and other diversity-related matters.Address: Université du Québec en Outaouais,Département des sciences de l'éducation, Gatineau, QuébecCanadaless6,282 Followers969 Following21 Co-authorsTotal Views ;2166 Public MentionsFollowFollowingWebsiteall2 Videos20 Books229 Papers3 Talks4 (Editor) Journal Special IssuesMore  123 Conference Presentations5 Call for Proposals1 Biography6 Teaching Documents1 Drafts22 UNESCO Chair DCMÉTVideos31:55¿Cómo educar para la paz, el diálogo y la escucha activa en la era digital?¿Qué es la paz? ¿Realmente queremos vivir en un mundo pacífico? Si lo hacemos, ¿De qué modo debem... more ¿Qué es la paz? ¿Realmente queremos vivir en un mundo pacífico? Si lo hacemos, ¿De qué modo debemos dedicarnos a cultivar la paz? ¿Debería la educación para la paz ser una piedra angular de todas las iniciativas encaminadas a lograr una sociedad pacífica? Por un lado, vivimos en un mundo con multitud de conflictos militares abiertos, genocidios, luchas religiosas / raciales / etnoculturales y terrorismo, y feminicidio, violencia de pandillas, microagresiones, violencia policial, violencia en el deporte, bullying, racismo, sexismo y otras formas de la violencia, En cambio, estamos constantemente enredados en la violencia simbólica, material, inferida y real. Las redes sociales tienen un potencial infinito de participación, difusión, inclusión, pero también de igual modo, en la red se fomentan conflictos sociales como es la xenofobia, porque las redes sociales están intensamente impregnadas de memos, videos, juegos, discusiones, comentarios y una serie de innovaciones, posibilidades de cEdit17 views01:02:41Entrevue sur l'antiracismeUne entrevue sur l'antiracisme avec André Mazawi de l'Université of British Columbia (UBC). Un vr... more Une entrevue sur l'antiracisme avec André Mazawi de l'Université of British Columbia (UBC). Un vrai plaisir de réfléchir sur cette question/ce sujet/cet ensemble de choses/ce point central, surtout en français (avril 2021).https://www.facebook.com/UNESCO.CHAIR.DCMET/videos/797195504541935Edit26 viewsBooksThe Epicenter: Democracy, Eco*Global Citizenship and Transformative Education / L’épicentre: Démocratie, Éco*Citoyenneté mondiale et Éducation transformatoire /   El Epicentro: Democracia, Eco*Ciudadanía Mundial y Educación TransformadoraThe Epicenter: Democracy, Eco*Global Citizenship and Transformative Education / L’épicentre: Démocratie, Éco*Citoyenneté mondiale et Éducation transformatoire /   El Epicentro: Democracia, Eco*Ciudadanía Mundial y Educación Transformadora,  2023Creatively reviving and innovating emancipatory practices, knowledges and epistemologies that hav... more Creatively reviving and innovating emancipatory practices, knowledges and epistemologies that have been under attack by neoliberal and neocolonial rule can no longer be overlooked. Robust and critical citizen engagement through social movements and transformative education is a necessary cornerstone to building meaningful and critical forms of democracy. Social solidarity (and eco-global citizenship) is confronted by a myriad of forced and unforced migrations, xenophobia, avarice, warfare, and the global environmental catastrophe, with global elites continually shoring up their bottom line. This book—offered in English, French and Spanish, with authors from a dozen countries—is part of our socio-political and educational project, seeking to bring people together across linguistic, cultural, geographic, identity and disciplinary lines. Aiming to cultivate and facilitate deliberative, engaged dialogues, ideas, proposals and actions for a world that more purposefully and audaciously includes all humans, species and the environment under the same tent is a central feature of our epicenter.Les pratiques, les connaissances et les épistémologies émancipatrices créatives et innovantes qui ont été martelées par le régime néolibéral et néocolonial ne peuvent plus être négligées. Un engagement citoyen solide et critique par le biais de mouvements sociaux et d'une éducation transformatoire est une pierre angulaire nécessaire à la construction de formes de démocratie robustes et critiques. La solidarité sociale (et la citoyenneté éco*mondiale) est confrontée par une myriade de migrations forcées et non forcées, de xénophobie, d'avarice, de guerre et de la catastrophe environnementale mondiale, les élites mondiales renforçant continuellement leur positionnement économique. Ce livre—en anglais, français et espagnol, avec des auteurs d'une douzaine de pays—s'inscrit dans notre projet socio-politique et éducatif, cherchant à rapprocher les gens au-delà des frontières linguistiques, culturelles, géographiques, identitaires et disciplinaires. Visant à cultiver et à faciliter des dialogues, des idées, des propositions et des actions délibératifs et engagés pour un monde qui inclut plus délibérément et audacieusement tous les humains, les espèces et l'environnement sous le même toit est une caractéristique centrale de notre épicentre.Ya no se puede pasar por alto revivir e innovar creativamente prácticas, conocimientos y epistemologías emancipatorias que han sido golpeadas por el régimen neoliberal y neocolonial. La participación ciudadana sólida y crítica a través de movimientos sociales y la educación transformadora es una piedra angular necesaria para construir formas significativas y críticas de democracia. La solidaridad social (y la ciudadanía eco*global) es confrontada por una miríada de migraciones forzadas y no forzadas, xenofobia, avaricia, guerra y la catástrofe ambiental global, con élites globales continuamente apuntalando sus ganancias. Este libro—en inglés, francés y español, con autores de una docena de países—es parte de nuestro proyecto sociopolítico y educativo, que busca acercar a las personas a través de líneas lingüísticas, culturales, geográficas, identitarias y disciplinarias. El objetivo de cultivar y facilitar diálogos, ideas, propuestas y acciones deliberativas y comprometidas para un mundo que incluya a todos los humanos, las especies y el medio ambiente bajo la misma tienda de manera más decidida y audaz es una característica central de nuestro epicentro.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
“It’s not education that scares me, it’s the educators…”: Is there still hope for democracy in education, and education for democracy?“It’s not education that scares me, it’s the educators…”: Is there still hope for democracy in education, and education for democracy?,  2019Many people believe that “education” has a disproportionately negative effect on them and those c... more Many people believe that “education” has a disproportionately negative effect on them and those close to them. With so much wealth, technological prowess, innovation, and economic development, why do we still have marginalization, social inequalities, conflict, mass incarceration and generational poverty? The connection to democracy, Education for Democracy (EfD) and social justice is, for Carr and Thésée, clear, and this volume interweaves a narrative within these themes based on a Freirian theoretical backdrop. This book presents a vision for transformative education and EfD, seeking to cultivate, stimulate and support political and media literacy, critical engagement and a re-conceptualization of what education is, and, importantly, how it can address entrenched, systemic and institutional problems that plague society. Based on over a decade of empirical research in a range of contexts and jurisdictions, the authors strive to link teaching and learning with agency, solidarity, action and transformative change within the conceptual framework of a critically-engaged EfD.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Democracy 2.0: Media, Political Literacy and Critical Engagementby Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeDemocracy 2.0: Media, Political Literacy and Critical Engagement,  2018Participatory media 2.0 have shifted the terrain of public life. We are all—individually and coll... more Participatory media 2.0 have shifted the terrain of public life. We are all—individually and collectively—able to produce and circulate media to a potentially limitless audience, and we are all, at minimum, arbiters of knowledge and information through the choices—or clicks—we make when online. In this new environment of two-way and multidimensional media flow, digital communication tools, platforms and spaces offer enormous potential for the cultivation, development and circulation of diverse and counter-hegemonic perspectives. It has also provoked a crisis of communication between oppositional " echo chambers. " Democracy requires a functioning, critically-engaged and literate populace, one that can participate in, cultivate and shape, in meaningful and critical ways, the discourses and forms of the society in which it exists. Education for democracy, therefore, requires not only political literacy but also media and digital literacies, given the ubiquity and immersiveness of Media 2.0 in our lives. In Democracy 2.0, we feature a series of evocative, international case studies that document the impact of alternative and community use of media, in general, and Web 2.0 in particular. The aim is to foster critical reflection on social realities, developing the context for coalition-building in support of social change and social justice. The chapters herein examine activist uses of social and visual media within a broad and critical frame, underpinning the potential of alternative and DIY (Do It Yourself) media to impact and help forge community relationships, to foster engagement in the civic and social life of citizens across the globe and, ultimately, to support thicker forms of democratic participation, engagement and conscientization, beyond electoralist, representative, normative democracy.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness: Views from the Past and Presentby Paul R Carr and Darren LundWhiteness is a narrative. It is the privileged dimension of the complex story of "race" that was,... more Whiteness is a narrative. It is the privileged dimension of the complex story of "race" that was, and continues to be, seminal in shaping the socio-economic structure and cultural climate of the United States and other Western nations. Without acknowledging this story, it is impossible to understand fully the current political and social contexts in which we live. Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness explores multiple analyses of whiteness, drawing on both past and current key sources to tell the story in a more comprehensive way. This book features both iconic essays that address the social construction of whiteness and critical resistance as well as excellent new critical perspectives. --------- La "Blanchitude", ou « Whiteness » en anglais, est un récit. Il s'agit du récit des notions de "privilège" et de "pouvoir" ancrées dans l'histoire complexe des "races", des notions qui continuent à façonner les relations, les structures socioéconomiques et le climat culturel, particulièrement aux États-Unis, et en général, ailleurs en Occident. Il est donc impossible de bien comprendre le contexte politique et social dans lequel nous vivons sans reconnaître la force et les impacts de ce récit. Ce livre « Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness” explore la “blanchitude” selon divers angles adoptés par des auteurEs clés qui font une narration du phénomène. Le livre comprend des textes éloquents qui analysent la construction sociale de la « blanchitude » et font un survol de stratégies de résistance critique pour la contrer, tout en ouvrant sur de nouvelles perspectives critiques. Le livre a été publié par Peter Lang en février 2018. https://www.peterlang.com/view/product/82649?v=toc   Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness: Views from the Past and Present Contents  Figures  Acknowledgements  Introduction: Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness Virginia Lea, Darren E. Lund and Paul R. Carr  Section I The Social Construction of Whiteness and Critical Resistance 1.  Romancing the Shadow Toni Morrison  2. Whiteness as Property Cheryl L. Harris  3. The Prehistory of the White Worker: Settler Colonialism, Race and Republicanism before 1800 D. R. Roediger  4.  Slavery and Race: The Southern Dilemma G. M. Frederickson  5. The Invention of the White Race—And the Ordeal of America T. W. Allen  6. Obscuring the Importance of Race: The Implication of Making Comparisons Between Racism and Sexism (Or Other -isms) Trina Grillo and Stephanie M. Wildman  7. More than Skin Deep: Understanding the Deep Sources of White Resistance and Key Tools for Addressing It Heather W. Hackman and Susan Raffo  8. Deconstructing Whiteness: Discovering the Water Kelly E. Maxwell  9. Disrupting Denial and White Privilege in Teacher Education Darren E. Lund and Paul R. Carr  10. Imaging Whiteness Hegemony in the Classroom: Undoing Oppressive Practice and Inspiring Social Justice Activism Virginia Lea and Erma Jean Sims  11. A Chronic Identity Intoxication Syndrome: Whiteness as Seen by an African-Canadian Francophone Woman Gina Thésée  12. Nothing to Add: A Challenge to White Silence in Racial Discussions Robin DiAngelo  13.  The Elephant in the Room: Picturebooks, Philosophy for Children and Racism Darren Chetty  Section II - New Critical Perspectives on Whiteness 14. Stop Telling that Story! Danger Discourse and the White Racial Frame Robin DiAngelo  15.  Whiteness and Intersectionality Theory Cynthia Levine-Rasky  16.  No Place Like Home? Reconceptualizing Whiteness as Place│Space Within Teacher Education Melissa Winchell  17. Academic Advising and the Maintenance of Whiteness in Higher Education Geneva L. Sarcedo and Cheryl E. Matias  18. “We Acted Like a Genocidal Country When We Are Clearly Not One”: Exploring the Complexities of Racialization and the Structuring Forces of Whiteness in a High School Classroom Tana Mitchell Contents  19.  Whiteness and White Privilege: Problematizing Race and Racism in a “Color-blind” World, and in Education Paul R. Carr  20. A Hidden Door Outside the Law: Mapping Whiteness and Symbolic Alibis for Crimes Against First Nations People John L. Hoben  21. An Epistemic Instruction Manual: The Blinding Whiteness of the Australian National Curriculum Glen Parkes  22.  How Did We Get Here? The Role of Whiteness (White Privilege and White Supremacy) in the Current Environmental Crisis Heather W. Hackman  23. “Does It Make Me White If…?”: registers of Whiteness in the Blog “stuff White People Like” Nichole E. Grant  Contributors   Advance Praise“In this time of bolstered white supremacy locally and throughout the world, I can imagine few interventions as timely and urgent as Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness. Lea, Lund, and Carr have assembled a stunning range of writings— from both earlier and contemporary scholars—who lay bare the endemic and enduring nature of whiteness as normative ideology, its damage to educational and social justice, and our role in dismantling and reimagining race. Packed with troubling insights, this book is one I must read again. Read and reread this book and answer its call to action.” –Kevin Kumashiro, Author of Against Common Sense; former Dean of the School of Education, University of San Francisco  “In Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness, Virginia Lea, Darren Lund, and Paul Carr present a marvelous collection of first‐rate essays that probe the roots and workings of whiteness from multiple vantage points. The essays, ranging from classics in the field to new works reflecting on identity, teaching, and disruption of whiteness, should be in the hands of everyone who is trying to figure out how to dismantle white supremacy.” –Christine Sleeter, Professor Emerita, California State University, Monterey Bay  “Simply put, Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness is the most compelling collection on whiteness and racism I have read. Lea, Lund, and Carr have assembled a powerful collection of essays from a range of voices, vocations, and positionalities that together are equal parts challenging and accessible, philosophical and action‐demanding. I could feel my consciousness growing as I read.” –Paul C. Gorski, Associate Professor of Social Justice and Human Rights, George Mason University; Founder of EdChange and the Equity Literacy Institute  “Readers will find the contributions in this book important to the discourse and understanding on how whiteness is played out in various contexts in society. Through a series of chapters inspiring authors offer a variety of perspectives that are necessary and important in educational discourse. Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness will be a valuable resource to teacher educators, and indeed all courses at colleges and universities as they engage students in some of the challenging issues of the day. The chapters in this book will encourage and stimulate dialogue on an important topic. This book is indeed a valuable contribution to this effort.” –Ann E. Lopez, Associate Professor, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, University of Toronto; President‐Elect, the National Association for Multicultural Education  “This book is a treasure trove of classic and to‐be‐classic pieces on whiteness and white racial literacy. I can’t wait to get this into the hands of my students!” –Özlem Sensoy, Associate Professor, Simon Fraser University; Co‐author of Is Everyone Really Equal?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Democracy and decency: What does education have to do with it?Democracy can mean a range of concepts, covering everything from freedoms, rights, elections, gov... more Democracy can mean a range of concepts, covering everything from freedoms, rights, elections, governments, processes, philosophies and a panoply of abstract and concrete notions that can be mediated by power, positionality, culture, time and space. Democracy can also be translated into brute force, hegemony, docility, compliance and conformity, as in wars will be decided on the basis of the needs of elites, or major decisions about spending finite resources will be the domain of the few over the masses, or people will be divided along the lines of race, ethnicity, class, religion, etc. because it is advantageous for maintaining exploitative political systems in place to do so. Often, these frameworks are developed and reified based on the notion that elections give the right to societies, or segments of societies, to install regimes, institutions and operating systems that are then supposedly legitimated and rendered infinitely just because formal power resides in the hands of those dominating forces.This book is interested in advancing a critical analysis of the hegemonic paradigm described above, one that seeks higher levels of political literacy and consciousness, and one that makes the connection with education. What does education have to do with democracy? How does education shape, influence, impinge on, impact, negate, facilitate and/or change the context, contours and realities of democracy? How can we teach for and about democracy to alter and transform the essence of what democracy is, and, importantly, what it should be?This book advances the notion of decency in relation to democracy, and is underpinned by an analysis of meaningful, critically-engaged education. Is it enough to be kind, nice, generous and hopeful when we can also see signs of rampant, entrenched and debilitating racism, sexism, poverty, violence, injustice, war and other social inequalities? If democracy is intended to be a legitimating force for good, how does education inform democracy? What types of knowledge, experience, analysis and being are helpful to bring about newer, more meaningful and socially just forms of democracy?Throughout some twenty chapters from a range of international scholars, this book includes three sections: Constructing Meanings for Democracy and Decency; Justice for All as Praxis; and Social Justice in Action for Democracy, Decency, and Diversity: International Perspectives. The underlying thread that is interwoven through the texts is a critical reappraisal of normative, hegemonic interpretations of how power is infused into the educational realm, and, importantly, how democracy can be re-situated and re-formulated so as to more meaningfully engage society and education.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect: On the Lives and Education of Childrenby Paul R Carr, Paul Thomas, and Bradley J PorfilioPedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practiti... more Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practitioners who discuss pedagogies of kindness, an alternative to the «no excuses» ideology now dominating the way that children are raised and educated in the U.S. today. The fields of education, and especially early childhood education, include some histories and perspectives that treat those who are younger with kindness and respect. This book demonstrates an informed awareness of this history and the ways that old and new ideas can counter current conditions that are harmful to both those who are younger and those who are older, while avoiding the reconstitution of the romantic, innocent child who needs to be saved by more advanced adults. Two interpretations of the upbringing of children are investigated and challenged, one suggesting that the poor do not know how to raise their children and thus need help, while the other looks at those who are privileged and therefore know how to nurture their young. These opposing views have been discussed and problematized for more than thirty years. Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect investigates the issue of why this circumstance has continued and even worsened today.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Can teachers make a difference? Experimenting with, and experiencing, democracy in education. (2012)by Paul R Carr, David Zyngier, and Marc PruynSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect  On the Lives and Education of Childrenby Paul R Carr, Julie Gorlewski, and Bradley J PorfilioPedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practiti... more Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practitioners who discuss pedagogies of kindness, an alternative to the «no excuses» ideology now dominating the way that children are raised and educated in the U.S. today. The fields of education, and especially early childhood education, include some histories and perspectives that treat those who are younger with kindness and respect. This book demonstrates an informed awareness of this history and the ways that old and new ideas can counter current conditions that are harmful to both those who are younger and those who are older, while avoiding the reconstitution of the romantic, innocent child who needs to be saved by more advanced adults. Two interpretations of the upbringing of children are investigated and challenged, one suggesting that the poor do not know how to raise their children and thus need help, while the other looks at those who are privileged and therefore know how to nurture their young. These opposing views have been discussed and problematized for more than thirty years. Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect investigates the issue of why this circumstance has continued and even worsened today.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education: Can Hope (Still)Audaciously Trump Neoliberalism?Anyone who is touched by public education – teachers, administrators, teacher-educators, students... more Anyone who is touched by public education – teachers, administrators, teacher-educators, students, parents, politicians, pundits, and citizens – ought to read this book, a revamped and updated second edition. It will speak to educators, policymakers and citizens who are concerned about the future of education and its relation to a robust, participatory democracy. The perspectives offered by a wonderfully diverse collection of contributors provide a glimpse into the complex, multilayered factors that shape, and are shaped by, education institutions today. The analyses presented in this text are critical of how globalization and neoliberalism exert increasing levels of control over the public institutions meant to support the common good. Readers of this book will be well prepared to participate in the dialogue that will influence the future of public education in United States, and beyond – a dialogue that must seek the kind of change that represents hope for all students. As for the question contained in the title of the book – The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education: Can Hope (Still) Audaciously Trump Neoliberalism? (Second Edition) –, Carr and Porfilio develop a framework that integrates the work of the contributors, including Christine Sleeter and Dennis Carlson, who wrote the original forward and afterword respectively, and the updated ones written by Paul Street, Peter Mclaren and Dennis Carlson, which problematize how the Obama administration has presented an extremely constrained, conservative notion of change in and through education. The rhetoric has not been matched by meaningful, tangible, transformative proposals, policies and programs aimed at transformative change, and now fully into a second mandate this second edition of the book is able to more substantively provide a vigorous critique of the contemporary educational and political landscape. There are many reasons for this, and, according to the contributors to this book, it is clear that neoliberalism is a major obstacle to stimulating the hope that so many have been hoping for. Addressing systemic inequities embedded within neoliberalism, Carr and Porfilio argue, is key to achieving the hope so brilliantly presented by Obama during the campaign that brought him to the presidency.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Revisiting The Great White North? Reframing Whiteness, Privilege, and Identity in EducationReturning seven years later to their original pieces from this landmark book, over 20 leading sch... more Returning seven years later to their original pieces from this landmark book, over 20 leading scholars and activists revisit and reframe their rich contributions to a burgeoning scholarship on Whiteness. With new reflective writings for each chapter, and valuable sections on relevant readings and resources, this volume refreshes and enhances the first text to pay critical and sustained attention to Whiteness in education, with implications far beyond national borders. Contributors include George Sefa Dei, Tracey Lindberg, Carl James, Cynthia Levine-Rasky, and the late Patrick Solomon. Courageously examining diverse perspectives, contexts, and institutional practices, contributors to this volume dismantle the underpinnings of inequitable power relations, privilege, and marginalization. The book’s relevance extends to those in a range of settings, with abundant and poignant lessons for enhancing and understanding transformative social justice work in education. Revisiting The Great White North? offers terrific grist for examining the persistence of Whiteness even as it shape-shifts. Chapters are comprehensive, theoretically rich, and anchored in personal experience. Authors’ reflections on the seven years since publication of the first edition of this book complexify how we understand Whiteness, while simultaneously driving home the need not only to grapple with it, but to work against it. Christine Sleeter,Professor Emerita, California State University Monterey Bay Our understanding of racial inequities in education will be impoverished unless we look deeply at White privilege, its variation in different contexts, and resistances to change. Such is the call in this important book by Lund, Carr, and colleagues, whose analyses within Canadian contexts, framed and re-framed for this captivating revised edition, will be useful to educators and scholars around the world. Read this book today. Kevin Kumashiro, Dean, School of Education, University of San Francisco; President, National Association for Multicultural Education   Darren Lund and Paul Carr have given the contributors to their original 2007 text the opportunity to revisit, rethink, reconceptualize, and reframe their earlier work. The result is an interesting, invigorating, and unsettling group of chapters that challenge readers to also revisit and rethink their own ideas about Whiteness, privilege, and power …. Teachers, administrators, policymakers, and researchers will all benefit from this critical work. Sonia Nieto, Professor Emerita, Language, Literacy, and Culture College of Education, University of Massachusetts, Amherst Lund and Carr bring together a superb collection of authors who collectively challenge readers to go beyond liberal platitudes about race … until educators confront the political, social and economic consequences of inequitably distributed privilege, the path towards equality and freedom will remain elusive. By immersing us in the discourse of Whiteness, the essays in this book illuminate that very path. Joel Westheimer, University Research Chair & Professor, Faculty of Education, University of OttawaSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Social Context Reform: A Pedagogy of Equity and OpportunityCurrently, both the status quo of public education and the "No Excuses" Reform policies are ident... more Currently, both the status quo of public education and the "No Excuses" Reform policies are identical. The reform offers a popular and compelling narrative based on the meritocracy and rugged individualism myths that are supposed to define American idealism. This volume will refute this ideology by proposing Social Context Reform, a term coined by Paul Thomas which argues for educational change within a larger plan to reform social inequity—such as access to health care, food, higher employment, better wages and job security. Since the accountability era in the early 1980s, policy, public discourse, media coverage, and scholarly works have focused primarily on reforming schools themselves. Here, the evidence that school-only reform does not work is combined with a bold argument to expand the discourse and policy surrounding education reform to include how social, school, and classroom reform must work in unison to achieve goals of democracy, equity, and opportunity both in and through public education. This volume will include a wide variety of essays from leading critical scholars addressing the complex elements of social context reform, all of which address the need to re-conceptualize accountability and to seek equity and opportunity in social and education reform.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Educating for Democratic Consciousness: Counter-hegemonic PossibilitiesThere is a widespread, but mainly untenable, assumption that education in Western societies (and ... more There is a widespread, but mainly untenable, assumption that education in Western societies (and elsewhere) intuitively and horizontally aids the democratic development of people. An argument could be made that in contemporary liberal democracies, education was never designed for the well-being of societies. Instead of the full inclusion of everyone in educational development, it becomes dominated by those with a vested interest in the role of the liberal state as a mediating agent that, ultimately, assures the supremacy of the capitalism and neoliberalism. This book extends beyond a theoretical analysis of democratic education, seeking to tap into the substantial experiences, perspectives and research of a wide range of leading scholars from diverse vantage points, who bring themselves and their work into the debate connecting democracy and education, which elucidates the reference to counter-hegemonic possibilities in the title.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Can Educators Make a Difference?: Experimenting With and Experiencing Democracy in Educationby David Zyngier and Paul R CarrAs the title of this book suggests, how we understand, perceive and experience democracy may have... more As the title of this book suggests, how we understand, perceive and experience democracy may have a significant effect on how we actually engage in, and with, democracy. Within the educational context, this is a key concern, and forms the basis of the research presented in this volume within a critical, comparative analysis. The Global Doing Democracy Research Project (GDDRP), which currently has some 70 scholars in over 20 countries examining how educators do democracy, provides the framework in which diverse scholars explore a host of concerns related to democracy and democratic education, including the impact of neoliberalism, political literacy, critical engagement, teaching and learning for and about democracy, social justice, and the meaning of power/power relations within the educational context. Ultimately, the contributors of this book collectively ask: can there be democracy without a critically engaged education, and, importantly, what role do educators play in this context and process? Why many educators in diverse contexts believe that they are unable, dissuaded and/or prevented from doing thick democratic education is problematized in this book but the authors also seek to illustrate that, despite the challenges, barriers and concerns about doing democracy in education, something can, and should, be done to develop, cultivate and ingratiate schools and society with more meaningful democratic practices and processes. This book breaks new ground by using a similar empirical methodology within a number of international contexts to gage the democratic sentiments and actions of educators, which raises a host of questions about epistemology, teacher education, policy development, pedagogy, institutional cultures, conscientization, and the potential for transformational change in education. REVIEWS "If there was ever a time to reclaim and renew the power of democracy it is in this historical moment, when people everywhere are calling for the remaking of society. Can educators make a difference? provides a powerful affirmation to the question, by critically bringing together a variety of philosophical and practical concerns. More important, the book serves as an invaluable pedagogical resource for educators committed to a genuine praxis of democratic life, in the classroom and beyond." Antonia Darder Loyola Marymount University  "Can educators make a difference in their students’ lives? Most people will automatically answer with an emphatic “YES”. But if we press a bit further and ask: Can educators make a difference in the democratization of societies? Probably we will find a lot more hesitant answers. These are two deceptively simple questions, but I don’t know any “educator” worth the title that doesn’t struggle every day trying to find satisfactory answers to those two questions. Can educators make a difference? Experimenting with, and Experiencing, Democracy in Education is one of those very rare books that will assist teachers, especially those working in teacher education programs, to find effective ways to strengthen the relationships of schooling and democracy. Using detailed analyses of experiments with democratic schools, and experiences of democracy in education, the contributors of this book provide both conceptually sophisticated, as well as proven practical, initiatives to assist educators worldwide to affirm their central role in schools as transformative critical cultural professionals; supporting the goal of making every teacher a teacher of democracy. This is an outstanding book and should be required reading in every teacher education program." Gustavo E. Fischman Arizona State University  "What a rich collection of thinkers and educators from around the globe, all deeply committed to fostering a thick and robust version of democracy. Their engagement of students, their use of a solid body of theory and data, and their bold challenges to thin and stultifying versions of democracy, come together in this welcome book. I am pleased to report that the question asked in their title is answered in this hopeful text, that it is a resounding “yes,” and that there is still much work to be done." Darren E. Lund University of Calgary  "I loved this book! It is powerful. It asks hugely important questions about democratic and undemocratic/anti-democratic education, pedagogy, curriculum, organization, ideology and control. As well as asking what (and who) education does currently serve, its international group of writers/researchers/activists also asks what/whose purposes should education serve? And it goes further. It shows how, in different national contexts and with international/global resonance, teachers and students can do deep democratic education. This excellent volume, based on the “Global Doing Democracy Research Project”, really can and does take critical educators, social justice educators, educators for democratic citizenship forward. Exciting stuff!" Dave Hill University of Middlesex (London) in The Journal for Critical Education Policy Studies CONTENTSAcknowledgements. Foreword: Reflections on the Global Doing Democracy Research Project, Daniel Schugurensky. Introducing the Global Doing Democracy Research Project: Seeking to Understand the Perspectives, Experiences and Perceptions of Teachers in Relation to Democracy in Education, David Zyngier and Paul R. Carr. Democracy, Critical Pedagogy and the Education of Educators, Paul R.Carr. Re-Discovering Democracy: Putting Action (Back) into Active Citizenship and Praxis (Back) into Practice, David Zyngier. Can We Teach Deep Democracy: And Can It Make a Difference? Carolyn M. Shields. Getting Beyond Flat-Out Bored: The Challenges and Possibilities of Creating a Democratic Space for Social Justice Education in Publically Funded Schools, Michael O’Sullivan. Preservice Teachers’ Conceptions of Democratic Essence: Interpretations of Democratic Principles, and Their Connections to Social Justice, Economic Class, and Spirituality/Religion in the United States, Thomas A. Lucey. What Kind of Citizenship for What Kind of Democracy? Are We Spectators of Everyday Events or Protagonists in History? Adriana Murriello, Andrea Ledwith, and Cecilia Naddeo. Teacher Education and Democracy: Preparing Teachers in Metropolitan Buenos Aires, María Delia Traverso. Education for Democracy in Perúvian Society, Felix Reátegui and Susana Frisancho. Doing Democracy in Education: Perspectives of Malaysian Principals, Sazali Yusoff. “Critical Multicultural Social Studies” for “Deep Democracy”: Theory and Practice, Marc Pruyn. About the Contributors.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Educating for Peace in a Time of Permanent War: Are Schools Part of the Solution or the Problem?by Bradley J Porfilio and Paul R CarrWhat is the meaning of peace, why should we study it, and how should we achieve it? Although ther... more What is the meaning of peace, why should we study it, and how should we achieve it? Although there are an increasing number of manuscripts, curricula and initiatives that grapple with some strand of peace education, there is, nonetheless, a dearth of critical, cross-disciplinary, international projects/books that examine peace education in conjunction with war and conflict. Within this volume, the authors contend that war/military conflict/violence are not a nebulous, far-away, mysterious venture; rather, they argue that we are all, collectively, involved in perpetrating and perpetuating militarization/conflict/violence inside and outside of our own social circles. Therefore, education about and against war can be as liberating as it is necessary. If war equates killing, can our schools avoid engaging in the examination of what war is all about? If education is not about peace, then is it about war? Can a society have education that willfully avoids considering peace as its central objective? Can a democracy exist if pivotal notions of war and peace are not understood, practiced, advocated and ensconced in public debate? These questions, according to Carr and Porfilio and the contributors they have assembled, merit a critical and extensive reflection. This book seeks to provide a range of epistemological, policy, pedagogical, curriculum and institutional analyses aimed at facilitating meaningful engagement toward a more robust and critical examination of the role that schools play (and can play) in framing war, militarization and armed conflict and, significantly, the connection to peace.REVIEWS"The doomsday clock moves closer to midnight in a world that has gone mad with violence and perpetual war. The power of the military to manufacture and sanitize death, devastation and destruction has never been interrogated before by critical educators. Educating for Peace in a Time of Permanent War: Are Schools Part of the Solution or the Problem? is the first volume of its kind in which the militarization of education (both in curriculum and in the larger pedagogical order) is examined. This is an extremely important book that should be read by all educators."- Karen Anijar, Professor Emeritus, Arizona State University"In Educating for Peace in a Time of Permanent War" Are Schools Part of the Solution or the Problem?, editors Paul R. Carr and Brad J. Porfilio skillfully weave together and present the intellectual capital (the theory, philosophy and empirical work) of a set of international scholars par excellence. In five engaging sections – 'Theorizing Peace, War and Peace'; 'Scanning the War in Our Daily (and Educational) Lives'; 'The Curriculum of War and Peace'; 'Internationalizing Peace and the Trauma of War and Conflict'; and, 'Resisting the Militarization of Education' – and contextualized between the inspiring bookends of a Foreword by Antonia Darder and an Afterword by Zvi Bekerman, the authors explore virtually every aspect of the role of education in the drive for war and its perpetuation, and its equally liberatory potential in perusing its antithesis, peace. Any activist, student or academic working in the areas of peace, education, sociology, social justice or anti-imperialism – or anyone excited about the current world-wide push-back against the forces of oppression (neo-liberalism, authoritarianism, sexism, racism and homophobia) – would be remiss not to carefully read and consider the important thoughts and analyses proffered in this strikingly important volume!"- Marc Pruyn, Senior Lecturer, Monash University"In our shadowed time of military solutions to chronic problems, schools themselves mirror these means toward an end. The authors in this volume critically assess the role of schooling as a tool of governments and nation-building through analysis of the military mind and militarism in our teaching and learning. They find in the efficiency and surveillance of a modern nation-state a cast of mind and a portfolio of practices that seep inexorably down to authoritarian accountability measures in many schools today. I was particularly struck to realize that common means of peace education may be too weak or incomplete to counter the military mind and its accepted solutions to conflict, especially when the war machine becomes a major means to economic prosperity. The part of this volume devoted to classroom practices by critical peace educators around the world gave me some hope that teaching and learning in and out of schools may someday become generative, rather than reactive, incubators for a new life. This new life would be a way of being in the world that is not simply an altered cast of mind or an amended outlook. It would be a culture of peace-building that would begin to counter the suspicion of our relationships with one another, the violence of modes of being with non-human animals, and the exploitation of our planet."- A. G. Rud, Dean and Professor, Washington State UniversitySave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education: Can Hope Audaciously Trump Neoliberalism?by Bradley J Porfilio and Paul R CarrIn The phenomenon of Obama and the agenda for education: Can hope audaciously trump neoliberalism... more In The phenomenon of Obama and the agenda for education: Can hope audaciously trump neoliberalism?, Paul R. Carr and Brad J. Porfilio bring together some of the most well-respected transformative scholars and practitioners in order to provide a critical examination of the Obama administration’s educational agenda. The volume aims to go beyond the rhetoric generated by the mass media, political pundits, and large-scale corporations that suggests that neoliberal educational policies will ameliorate schools, a failing economy, and the social ills plaguing US society. The contributors to this book diagnose how the proposed and actual educational policies seek to bolster corporations in their quest to profit off youths’ bodies and minds as well as, importantly, producing, in many instances, compliant teachers and students who lack the fortitude and engagement to question the inequitable power relations that cause untold human suffering, misery and environmental degradation at today’s historical juncture. Some of the chapters examine how specific neoliberal educational policies embraced by the Obama administration, such as charter schools, standardized examinations, merit pay, and accountability schemes, are having an deleterious impact on minoritized students and communities across the US. Finally, several contributors design narratives of resistance for educators, caregivers, scholars, and other concerned citizens. Their visions and ideals give us hope that it is, indeed, possible to eradicate the commercial forces responsible for the proliferation of joblessness, homelessness, poverty, and militarized, underfunded, and commercialized educational spaces, as well as the school-to-prison pipeline within the US, which frames the intense suffering, misery, and oppression infiltrating most social contexts across the globe. As for the question contained in the title of the book--Can hope audaciously trump neoliberalism?--, Carr and Porfilio develop a framework that problematizes how the Obama administration has presented an extremely constrained, conservative notion of change in and through education. The rhetoric has not been matched by meaningful, tangible, transformative proposals, policies and programs aimed at transformative change. There are many reasons for this, and, according to the contributors to this book, it is clear that neoliberalism is a major obstacle to stimulating the hope that so many have been hoping for. Addressing systemic inequities embedded within neoliberalism, Carr and Porfilio argue, is key to achieving the hope so brilliantly presented by Obama during the campaign that brought him to the presidency.From the back-cover:The times call for audacious and courageous responses to an education reform agenda that, sadly even under President Obama, embodies standardization, privatization, and competition at the expense of equity and a democratic vision of education. The authors of The Phenomenon of Obama offer such a response and bring us back to the true purpose of education: to nurture teaching and learning, collaboration, community, and social justice. Sonia Nieto, Professor Emerita, University of Massachusetts, Amherst  Paul Carr and Brad Porfilio's book is thus a desperately necessary shot of critical democratic sobriety on the confusing politics of U.S. public education. More than ever before we need this type of serious institutional analysis, not myth-making media points, if we are to dare a new social order (either with the schools or without them). Richard Kahn, Education Department, Antioch University Los Angeles The perspectives offered by a wonderfully diverse collection of contributors provide a glimpse into the complex, multilayered factors that shape, and are shaped by, institutions of schooling today. The analyses presented in this text are critical as globalization and neoliberalism exert increasing levels of control over the public institutions meant to support the common good. Readers of this book will be well prepared to participate in the dialogue that will influence the future of public education in this nation – a dialogue that must seek the kind of change that represents hope for all students. Julie A. Gorlewski, Faculty of Education, SUNY New Paltz The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education provides a justified critical analysis of the anti-democratic education reform initiatives being launched by powerful elites in the U.S. In times of increasing social, economic, and educational inequality, the sharp critique offered by this volume is one part lament, one part righteous indignation, and totally necessary. Wayne Au, Editor, Rethinking Schools, & Faculty of Education, University of Washington – Bothell Campus This urgently needed collection exposes the neoliberal architecture of the Obama administration’s initiatives within and beyond education. These careful essays describe the economic, political, and philosophical formations underlying this administration’s market-driven approaches to teaching and learning, as well as revealing the ideological strategies through which elites sell their one-sided policies to the public. Carr and Porfilio have compiled an engaging and indispensable resource for researchers, educators, and activists interested in understanding and confronting the contemporary corporatization and instrumentalization of education. Noah De Lissovoy, Faculty of Education, University of Texas at Austin.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Does your vote count? Critical pedagogy and democracyThe public debate on democracy is often constrained within an alienating and disenfranchising nar... more The public debate on democracy is often constrained within an alienating and disenfranchising narrative of opinion polls, campaign platforms, personalities and formal structures that generate legislation, all of which surreptitiously seems to trickle down to the classroom. Paul R. Carr asserts that democracy must be cultivated in a vigorous, conscientious, meaningful and critical way in and through education in order for it to have salience in society, especially within a neoliberal conjuncture that promotes limited space for epistemological interrogation of how we understand and are engaged in maintaining and/or transforming our societies. Building on the critical pedagogical work of Paulo Freire, Joe L. Kincheloe, and others, this book develops a framework for understanding how a thicker democratic education can be conceptualized and implemented in schools. The book aims to move the focus on democracy away from voting, and place it more properly on the importance of social justice and political literacy as a way of understanding what democracy is and, importantly, how to make it more relevant for all of society. The book concludes that another democracy is possible, as well as being desirable, and that education is the fundamental intersection in which it must be developed........"Paul R. Carr has produced a rich and impressive examination of the multiplicity of relationships among notions of democratic formation, critical pedagogy, human rights, anti-racism, and feminist, anti-colonial, political and cultural studies. Drawing from a deep well of intriguing and eclectic sources..., he moves with clarity and élan between the broad and the narrow, the general and the specific to capture the power of theory without sacrificing the nitty-gritty of concrete practice. A balance of possibilities rather than false dualisms will be found here. Does Your Vote Count? has become an essential contribution to my own work and teaching."--Tom Wilson, Chapman University......."In Does Your Vote Count? Paul R. Carr extends the critical analysis and contextualization of Democracy while carefully trying not to fall in the trap of offering new final understandings and solutions for what democracy and democratic processes should be. I read Carr's book as an invitation to approach democracy (re-written with a small d) through critical pedagogicalperspectives, opening democracy's meaning to multiple understandings, and diverse human experiences. We should all try to join in this dialogue which Carr, joining other great critical voices of the past (Freire, Kincheloe), considers to be one guided by humility."--Zvi Bekerman, Hebrew University......."In this compendium of writings, Paul R. Carr...calls for a rethinking of bourgeois democratic politics. What are the contours surrounding this conception of democracy and what are its limitations? What alternative conceptions of democracy ought to be brought to fruition if we are to overcome the onslaught of the 'neo-liberal,' neo-fascist and White-Anthropocentric policies we have been witnessing, and under which the majority world and eco-system have been suffering? What effective responses can a socially engaging critical pedagogy afford us in this regard? Thisbook covers a lot of ground and should inspire all those who dream of and work for a better world."--Peter Mayo, University of Malta......."This book should be of great interest to teachers, scholars and researchers interested in critical pedagogy. The book opens up the whole question of criticality, and of what kinds of criticality are acceptable in educational settings. It directly speaks to examining issues in education from a plurality of academic viewpoints and perspectives including the broader policy issues, i.e., minority studies, democracy, and issues of educational equality and equity. Without a doubt, it will have both a scholarly and intellectual impact on the field. Paulo Freire's approach to critical pedagogy is well served here, as is the legacy of the late Joe L. Kincheloe, whose many contributions and influence are evident throughout this book."--Sheila Macrine, New Jersey City University......."Paul R. Carr has written an innovative and timely book on the current state of democracy, which, he argues, can no longer be understood within mainstream, hegemonic, electoral-based thinking. His meshing of democracy with critical pedagogy is a welcome addition to the literature and the field. He meticulously documents how neo-liberal democracy has wrought many anti-democratic measures, events and inequities. More importantly, Carr demonstrates how education, from a critical pedagogical vantage point, can bring hope to those who have been discarded by Westernized democratic electoral systems that refuse to respond to the needs of the people....This book breaks fresh ground in arguing that educators (and citizens) can fashion anew, more resilient and more meaningful democracy. This book moves the debate away from how and who gets elected to the essence of power and engagement within society. Democracy is more than elections, and, as Carr points out, it should involve a transformative ethos built around a critical pedagogical educational experience."--Peter McLaren, UCLA......."For readers familiar with critical pedagogy, Paul R. Carr's book brings together and extends some of [its] core commitments: the eradication of oppression in school and society, making visible and ultimately resisting the effects of militaristic, hegemonic, racist, sexist, colonialist and other oppressive ideologies, and working with students to develop the skills to engage in meaningful and informed examinations about hegemonic practices throughout the world, and participate in robust democratic dialogues about challenging these practices. For readers who are not familiar with critical pedagogy, ...the book contributes a very detailed discussion of democratic (or perhaps democracy) literacy in all aspects of school structures. The book explores a range of examples, questions and case studies that underscore the complexity of democracy discourses as they emerge in a variety of settings. ...Carr's...care and passion for these issues is evident....Throughout the text, Carr does not lose sight of the blind spots and gray areas that make engagement with democracy a messy art. All of this results in a thoughtfully written book that would make a welcome addition to the critical educator's library."--Özlem Sensoy, Simon Fraser University......."A clear and insightful work that revisits the nature and implications [of] robust democracy in and for education, while offering persuasive justifications for the Freirean tradition of critical education through the use of lived experiences and research. Paul R. Carr provides a refreshing critical discussion of 'econ-ocracy' and the mythology it has created."--John Portelli, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto......."In this book, Paul R. Carr does an outstanding job capturing how teachers, researchers, scholars and informed citizens can utilize critical pedagogy to get us beyond the mainstream version of democracy in North America--election politics, polling and parties--that is responsible for perpetuating social inequalities in schools and in the wider society, to engendering a social realityconsisting of critically engaged citizenship, diversity, freedom, hope and justice. Not only does this book highlight the social, economic and political forces behind...entrenched educational and political structures that perpetuate conformity, oppression and intolerance, but it provides readers with pedagogical ideas, original research, and concepts to reflect upon how critical pedagogy can become the cornerstone to creating a reflexive praxis and building an equalitarian society."--Brad Porfilio, Lewis University........"Paul R. Carr's rigorous examination of democracy and critical pedagogy offers timely suggestions for the role education might play in ushering in a less oppressive, less exploitative, less Euro-centric, less barbaric, post-capitalist, post-imperialist world. In a context where one's individual vote arguably has limited political impact on disrupting the basic structures of capitalist power, Carr's emphasis on direct democratic action beyond the voting booth is a necessary reminder of the responsibility of educators to nurture the critical agency and commitment to social justice within their students. Does Your Vote Count? should be engaged with by educators and students everywhere."--Curry Stephenson Malott, D'Youville CollegeSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Youth Culture, Education and Resistance: Subverting the Commercial Ordering of LifeYouth Culture, Education and Resistance: Subverting the Commercial Ordering of Life is a groundbr... more Youth Culture, Education and Resistance: Subverting the Commercial Ordering of Life is a groundbreaking collection of essays that illustrate how youth culture has the potential to build solidarity amongst teachers, activists, scholars, and practitioners for the purposes of confronting the dominant ideological doctrine influencing life at today’s historical juncture—emblemized through neoliberalism—as well as building a society free from oppressive social formations. Several leading international scholars and educators provide empirically and theoretically rich portraits of youth challenging the commercialized status quo inside and outside K-12 classrooms. They also illustrate how cultural manifestations of youth speak directly against the social actors who continually vilify youth as the source of their own marginalization and the world’s suffering and misery.Youth Culture, Education and Resistance: Confronting Commerialization and Neo-Liberalism continues the important legacy of critical pedagogy by remaining defi ant in the face of what seems an unimpeachable foe. Given the daunting task faced by critical educators, it is heartening to see Brad Porfi lio and Paul Carr bringing together such a relentlessly creative and courageous group of critical educators, who refuse to give up the struggle to bring social justice to education and the world-at-large, a world increasingly eviscerated of social services on behalf of finance capital.—Peter McLaren, UCLA ((from the Foreword)Youth Culture, Education and Resistance by Brad Porfilio and Paul Carr is a timely and powerful intervention in contemporary literature on youth, education, and neo-liberalism. Collectively, the authors and editors open up the discussion around young people today, offering us a new and richer language to think about the specifi c kinds of inequalities young people face today—and how they are being resisted.—Greg Dimitriadis, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York (from the Afterword)What I find valuable about this volume is the way in which the authors look beyond tinkering with the policies of current or outgoing leaders. As this volume emphasizes, the real hope is to be found where it always has been found: in the resistance of youth. Our masters criminalize youth for the same basic reasons that they marginalize and racialize others: to divide and subjugate. I strongly recommend this volume to teachers and academics interested in looking beyond our immediate and localized concerns.—Douglas Fleming, University of OttawaThe contributors to this volume present both a theoretically complex analysis of neo-liberalism and the negative consequences for education, and a pedagogically rich portrayal of what is possible possible if we only placed people before profits. Engaging, critical, and ground-breaking.—David Hursh, University of RochesterSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Great White North? Exploring Whiteness, Privilege and Identity in Educationby Darren Lund, Paul R Carr, and Bradley J Porfilio"This landmark book represents the first text to pay critical and sustained attention to Whitenes... more "This landmark book represents the first text to pay critical and sustained attention to Whiteness in Canada from an impressive line-up of leading scholars and activists. The burgeoning scholarship on Whiteness will benefit richly from this book’s timely inclusion of the insights of Canadian scholars, educators, activists and others working for social justice within and through the educational system, with implications far beyond national borders. Over 20 leading scholars and activists have contributed a diversity of chapters offering a concerted scholarly analysis of how the complex problematic of Whiteness affects the structure, culture, content and achievement within education in Canada. Contributors include James Frideres, Carl James, Cynthia Levine-Rasky, and Patrick Solomon. The book critically examines diverse perspectives, contexts, and the construction and application of societal and institutional practices, both formal and informal, that underpin inequitable power relations and disenfranchisement. Its relevance extends beyond the Canadian context, as those in other global settings will find abundant and poignant lessons for their own trans-formative work in education with a particular focus on social justice. The Great White North? Exploring Whiteness, Privilege and Identity in Education has won two awards: the Canadian Race Relations Foundation's Award of Excellence (2008), and the Canadian Association of Foundations in Education's Publication Award (2009). Several reviews have also been written on this book, and they can be accessed at www.paulrcarr.net."Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
31:55¿Cómo educar para la paz, el diálogo y la escucha activa en la era digital?¿Qué es la paz? ¿Realmente queremos vivir en un mundo pacífico? Si lo hacemos, ¿De qué modo debem... more ¿Qué es la paz? ¿Realmente queremos vivir en un mundo pacífico? Si lo hacemos, ¿De qué modo debemos dedicarnos a cultivar la paz? ¿Debería la educación para la paz ser una piedra angular de todas las iniciativas encaminadas a lograr una sociedad pacífica? Por un lado, vivimos en un mundo con multitud de conflictos militares abiertos, genocidios, luchas religiosas / raciales / etnoculturales y terrorismo, y feminicidio, violencia de pandillas, microagresiones, violencia policial, violencia en el deporte, bullying, racismo, sexismo y otras formas de la violencia, En cambio, estamos constantemente enredados en la violencia simbólica, material, inferida y real. Las redes sociales tienen un potencial infinito de participación, difusión, inclusión, pero también de igual modo, en la red se fomentan conflictos sociales como es la xenofobia, porque las redes sociales están intensamente impregnadas de memos, videos, juegos, discusiones, comentarios y una serie de innovaciones, posibilidades de cEdit17 views01:02:41Entrevue sur l'antiracismeUne entrevue sur l'antiracisme avec André Mazawi de l'Université of British Columbia (UBC). Un vr... more Une entrevue sur l'antiracisme avec André Mazawi de l'Université of British Columbia (UBC). Un vrai plaisir de réfléchir sur cette question/ce sujet/cet ensemble de choses/ce point central, surtout en français (avril 2021).https://www.facebook.com/UNESCO.CHAIR.DCMET/videos/797195504541935Edit26 viewsThe Epicenter: Democracy, Eco*Global Citizenship and Transformative Education / L’épicentre: Démocratie, Éco*Citoyenneté mondiale et Éducation transformatoire /   El Epicentro: Democracia, Eco*Ciudadanía Mundial y Educación TransformadoraThe Epicenter: Democracy, Eco*Global Citizenship and Transformative Education / L’épicentre: Démocratie, Éco*Citoyenneté mondiale et Éducation transformatoire /   El Epicentro: Democracia, Eco*Ciudadanía Mundial y Educación Transformadora,  2023Creatively reviving and innovating emancipatory practices, knowledges and epistemologies that hav... more Creatively reviving and innovating emancipatory practices, knowledges and epistemologies that have been under attack by neoliberal and neocolonial rule can no longer be overlooked. Robust and critical citizen engagement through social movements and transformative education is a necessary cornerstone to building meaningful and critical forms of democracy. Social solidarity (and eco-global citizenship) is confronted by a myriad of forced and unforced migrations, xenophobia, avarice, warfare, and the global environmental catastrophe, with global elites continually shoring up their bottom line. This book—offered in English, French and Spanish, with authors from a dozen countries—is part of our socio-political and educational project, seeking to bring people together across linguistic, cultural, geographic, identity and disciplinary lines. Aiming to cultivate and facilitate deliberative, engaged dialogues, ideas, proposals and actions for a world that more purposefully and audaciously includes all humans, species and the environment under the same tent is a central feature of our epicenter.Les pratiques, les connaissances et les épistémologies émancipatrices créatives et innovantes qui ont été martelées par le régime néolibéral et néocolonial ne peuvent plus être négligées. Un engagement citoyen solide et critique par le biais de mouvements sociaux et d'une éducation transformatoire est une pierre angulaire nécessaire à la construction de formes de démocratie robustes et critiques. La solidarité sociale (et la citoyenneté éco*mondiale) est confrontée par une myriade de migrations forcées et non forcées, de xénophobie, d'avarice, de guerre et de la catastrophe environnementale mondiale, les élites mondiales renforçant continuellement leur positionnement économique. Ce livre—en anglais, français et espagnol, avec des auteurs d'une douzaine de pays—s'inscrit dans notre projet socio-politique et éducatif, cherchant à rapprocher les gens au-delà des frontières linguistiques, culturelles, géographiques, identitaires et disciplinaires. Visant à cultiver et à faciliter des dialogues, des idées, des propositions et des actions délibératifs et engagés pour un monde qui inclut plus délibérément et audacieusement tous les humains, les espèces et l'environnement sous le même toit est une caractéristique centrale de notre épicentre.Ya no se puede pasar por alto revivir e innovar creativamente prácticas, conocimientos y epistemologías emancipatorias que han sido golpeadas por el régimen neoliberal y neocolonial. La participación ciudadana sólida y crítica a través de movimientos sociales y la educación transformadora es una piedra angular necesaria para construir formas significativas y críticas de democracia. La solidaridad social (y la ciudadanía eco*global) es confrontada por una miríada de migraciones forzadas y no forzadas, xenofobia, avaricia, guerra y la catástrofe ambiental global, con élites globales continuamente apuntalando sus ganancias. Este libro—en inglés, francés y español, con autores de una docena de países—es parte de nuestro proyecto sociopolítico y educativo, que busca acercar a las personas a través de líneas lingüísticas, culturales, geográficas, identitarias y disciplinarias. El objetivo de cultivar y facilitar diálogos, ideas, propuestas y acciones deliberativas y comprometidas para un mundo que incluya a todos los humanos, las especies y el medio ambiente bajo la misma tienda de manera más decidida y audaz es una característica central de nuestro epicentro.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
“It’s not education that scares me, it’s the educators…”: Is there still hope for democracy in education, and education for democracy?“It’s not education that scares me, it’s the educators…”: Is there still hope for democracy in education, and education for democracy?,  2019Many people believe that “education” has a disproportionately negative effect on them and those c... more Many people believe that “education” has a disproportionately negative effect on them and those close to them. With so much wealth, technological prowess, innovation, and economic development, why do we still have marginalization, social inequalities, conflict, mass incarceration and generational poverty? The connection to democracy, Education for Democracy (EfD) and social justice is, for Carr and Thésée, clear, and this volume interweaves a narrative within these themes based on a Freirian theoretical backdrop. This book presents a vision for transformative education and EfD, seeking to cultivate, stimulate and support political and media literacy, critical engagement and a re-conceptualization of what education is, and, importantly, how it can address entrenched, systemic and institutional problems that plague society. Based on over a decade of empirical research in a range of contexts and jurisdictions, the authors strive to link teaching and learning with agency, solidarity, action and transformative change within the conceptual framework of a critically-engaged EfD.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Democracy 2.0: Media, Political Literacy and Critical Engagementby Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeDemocracy 2.0: Media, Political Literacy and Critical Engagement,  2018Participatory media 2.0 have shifted the terrain of public life. We are all—individually and coll... more Participatory media 2.0 have shifted the terrain of public life. We are all—individually and collectively—able to produce and circulate media to a potentially limitless audience, and we are all, at minimum, arbiters of knowledge and information through the choices—or clicks—we make when online. In this new environment of two-way and multidimensional media flow, digital communication tools, platforms and spaces offer enormous potential for the cultivation, development and circulation of diverse and counter-hegemonic perspectives. It has also provoked a crisis of communication between oppositional " echo chambers. " Democracy requires a functioning, critically-engaged and literate populace, one that can participate in, cultivate and shape, in meaningful and critical ways, the discourses and forms of the society in which it exists. Education for democracy, therefore, requires not only political literacy but also media and digital literacies, given the ubiquity and immersiveness of Media 2.0 in our lives. In Democracy 2.0, we feature a series of evocative, international case studies that document the impact of alternative and community use of media, in general, and Web 2.0 in particular. The aim is to foster critical reflection on social realities, developing the context for coalition-building in support of social change and social justice. The chapters herein examine activist uses of social and visual media within a broad and critical frame, underpinning the potential of alternative and DIY (Do It Yourself) media to impact and help forge community relationships, to foster engagement in the civic and social life of citizens across the globe and, ultimately, to support thicker forms of democratic participation, engagement and conscientization, beyond electoralist, representative, normative democracy.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness: Views from the Past and Presentby Paul R Carr and Darren LundWhiteness is a narrative. It is the privileged dimension of the complex story of "race" that was,... more Whiteness is a narrative. It is the privileged dimension of the complex story of "race" that was, and continues to be, seminal in shaping the socio-economic structure and cultural climate of the United States and other Western nations. Without acknowledging this story, it is impossible to understand fully the current political and social contexts in which we live. Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness explores multiple analyses of whiteness, drawing on both past and current key sources to tell the story in a more comprehensive way. This book features both iconic essays that address the social construction of whiteness and critical resistance as well as excellent new critical perspectives. --------- La "Blanchitude", ou « Whiteness » en anglais, est un récit. Il s'agit du récit des notions de "privilège" et de "pouvoir" ancrées dans l'histoire complexe des "races", des notions qui continuent à façonner les relations, les structures socioéconomiques et le climat culturel, particulièrement aux États-Unis, et en général, ailleurs en Occident. Il est donc impossible de bien comprendre le contexte politique et social dans lequel nous vivons sans reconnaître la force et les impacts de ce récit. Ce livre « Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness” explore la “blanchitude” selon divers angles adoptés par des auteurEs clés qui font une narration du phénomène. Le livre comprend des textes éloquents qui analysent la construction sociale de la « blanchitude » et font un survol de stratégies de résistance critique pour la contrer, tout en ouvrant sur de nouvelles perspectives critiques. Le livre a été publié par Peter Lang en février 2018. https://www.peterlang.com/view/product/82649?v=toc   Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness: Views from the Past and Present Contents  Figures  Acknowledgements  Introduction: Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness Virginia Lea, Darren E. Lund and Paul R. Carr  Section I The Social Construction of Whiteness and Critical Resistance 1.  Romancing the Shadow Toni Morrison  2. Whiteness as Property Cheryl L. Harris  3. The Prehistory of the White Worker: Settler Colonialism, Race and Republicanism before 1800 D. R. Roediger  4.  Slavery and Race: The Southern Dilemma G. M. Frederickson  5. The Invention of the White Race—And the Ordeal of America T. W. Allen  6. Obscuring the Importance of Race: The Implication of Making Comparisons Between Racism and Sexism (Or Other -isms) Trina Grillo and Stephanie M. Wildman  7. More than Skin Deep: Understanding the Deep Sources of White Resistance and Key Tools for Addressing It Heather W. Hackman and Susan Raffo  8. Deconstructing Whiteness: Discovering the Water Kelly E. Maxwell  9. Disrupting Denial and White Privilege in Teacher Education Darren E. Lund and Paul R. Carr  10. Imaging Whiteness Hegemony in the Classroom: Undoing Oppressive Practice and Inspiring Social Justice Activism Virginia Lea and Erma Jean Sims  11. A Chronic Identity Intoxication Syndrome: Whiteness as Seen by an African-Canadian Francophone Woman Gina Thésée  12. Nothing to Add: A Challenge to White Silence in Racial Discussions Robin DiAngelo  13.  The Elephant in the Room: Picturebooks, Philosophy for Children and Racism Darren Chetty  Section II - New Critical Perspectives on Whiteness 14. Stop Telling that Story! Danger Discourse and the White Racial Frame Robin DiAngelo  15.  Whiteness and Intersectionality Theory Cynthia Levine-Rasky  16.  No Place Like Home? Reconceptualizing Whiteness as Place│Space Within Teacher Education Melissa Winchell  17. Academic Advising and the Maintenance of Whiteness in Higher Education Geneva L. Sarcedo and Cheryl E. Matias  18. “We Acted Like a Genocidal Country When We Are Clearly Not One”: Exploring the Complexities of Racialization and the Structuring Forces of Whiteness in a High School Classroom Tana Mitchell Contents  19.  Whiteness and White Privilege: Problematizing Race and Racism in a “Color-blind” World, and in Education Paul R. Carr  20. A Hidden Door Outside the Law: Mapping Whiteness and Symbolic Alibis for Crimes Against First Nations People John L. Hoben  21. An Epistemic Instruction Manual: The Blinding Whiteness of the Australian National Curriculum Glen Parkes  22.  How Did We Get Here? The Role of Whiteness (White Privilege and White Supremacy) in the Current Environmental Crisis Heather W. Hackman  23. “Does It Make Me White If…?”: registers of Whiteness in the Blog “stuff White People Like” Nichole E. Grant  Contributors   Advance Praise“In this time of bolstered white supremacy locally and throughout the world, I can imagine few interventions as timely and urgent as Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness. Lea, Lund, and Carr have assembled a stunning range of writings— from both earlier and contemporary scholars—who lay bare the endemic and enduring nature of whiteness as normative ideology, its damage to educational and social justice, and our role in dismantling and reimagining race. Packed with troubling insights, this book is one I must read again. Read and reread this book and answer its call to action.” –Kevin Kumashiro, Author of Against Common Sense; former Dean of the School of Education, University of San Francisco  “In Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness, Virginia Lea, Darren Lund, and Paul Carr present a marvelous collection of first‐rate essays that probe the roots and workings of whiteness from multiple vantage points. The essays, ranging from classics in the field to new works reflecting on identity, teaching, and disruption of whiteness, should be in the hands of everyone who is trying to figure out how to dismantle white supremacy.” –Christine Sleeter, Professor Emerita, California State University, Monterey Bay  “Simply put, Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness is the most compelling collection on whiteness and racism I have read. Lea, Lund, and Carr have assembled a powerful collection of essays from a range of voices, vocations, and positionalities that together are equal parts challenging and accessible, philosophical and action‐demanding. I could feel my consciousness growing as I read.” –Paul C. Gorski, Associate Professor of Social Justice and Human Rights, George Mason University; Founder of EdChange and the Equity Literacy Institute  “Readers will find the contributions in this book important to the discourse and understanding on how whiteness is played out in various contexts in society. Through a series of chapters inspiring authors offer a variety of perspectives that are necessary and important in educational discourse. Critical Multicultural Perspectives on Whiteness will be a valuable resource to teacher educators, and indeed all courses at colleges and universities as they engage students in some of the challenging issues of the day. The chapters in this book will encourage and stimulate dialogue on an important topic. This book is indeed a valuable contribution to this effort.” –Ann E. Lopez, Associate Professor, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, University of Toronto; President‐Elect, the National Association for Multicultural Education  “This book is a treasure trove of classic and to‐be‐classic pieces on whiteness and white racial literacy. I can’t wait to get this into the hands of my students!” –Özlem Sensoy, Associate Professor, Simon Fraser University; Co‐author of Is Everyone Really Equal?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Democracy and decency: What does education have to do with it?Democracy can mean a range of concepts, covering everything from freedoms, rights, elections, gov... more Democracy can mean a range of concepts, covering everything from freedoms, rights, elections, governments, processes, philosophies and a panoply of abstract and concrete notions that can be mediated by power, positionality, culture, time and space. Democracy can also be translated into brute force, hegemony, docility, compliance and conformity, as in wars will be decided on the basis of the needs of elites, or major decisions about spending finite resources will be the domain of the few over the masses, or people will be divided along the lines of race, ethnicity, class, religion, etc. because it is advantageous for maintaining exploitative political systems in place to do so. Often, these frameworks are developed and reified based on the notion that elections give the right to societies, or segments of societies, to install regimes, institutions and operating systems that are then supposedly legitimated and rendered infinitely just because formal power resides in the hands of those dominating forces.This book is interested in advancing a critical analysis of the hegemonic paradigm described above, one that seeks higher levels of political literacy and consciousness, and one that makes the connection with education. What does education have to do with democracy? How does education shape, influence, impinge on, impact, negate, facilitate and/or change the context, contours and realities of democracy? How can we teach for and about democracy to alter and transform the essence of what democracy is, and, importantly, what it should be?This book advances the notion of decency in relation to democracy, and is underpinned by an analysis of meaningful, critically-engaged education. Is it enough to be kind, nice, generous and hopeful when we can also see signs of rampant, entrenched and debilitating racism, sexism, poverty, violence, injustice, war and other social inequalities? If democracy is intended to be a legitimating force for good, how does education inform democracy? What types of knowledge, experience, analysis and being are helpful to bring about newer, more meaningful and socially just forms of democracy?Throughout some twenty chapters from a range of international scholars, this book includes three sections: Constructing Meanings for Democracy and Decency; Justice for All as Praxis; and Social Justice in Action for Democracy, Decency, and Diversity: International Perspectives. The underlying thread that is interwoven through the texts is a critical reappraisal of normative, hegemonic interpretations of how power is infused into the educational realm, and, importantly, how democracy can be re-situated and re-formulated so as to more meaningfully engage society and education.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect: On the Lives and Education of Childrenby Paul R Carr, Paul Thomas, and Bradley J PorfilioPedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practiti... more Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practitioners who discuss pedagogies of kindness, an alternative to the «no excuses» ideology now dominating the way that children are raised and educated in the U.S. today. The fields of education, and especially early childhood education, include some histories and perspectives that treat those who are younger with kindness and respect. This book demonstrates an informed awareness of this history and the ways that old and new ideas can counter current conditions that are harmful to both those who are younger and those who are older, while avoiding the reconstitution of the romantic, innocent child who needs to be saved by more advanced adults. Two interpretations of the upbringing of children are investigated and challenged, one suggesting that the poor do not know how to raise their children and thus need help, while the other looks at those who are privileged and therefore know how to nurture their young. These opposing views have been discussed and problematized for more than thirty years. Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect investigates the issue of why this circumstance has continued and even worsened today.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Can teachers make a difference? Experimenting with, and experiencing, democracy in education. (2012)by Paul R Carr, David Zyngier, and Marc PruynSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect  On the Lives and Education of Childrenby Paul R Carr, Julie Gorlewski, and Bradley J PorfilioPedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practiti... more Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect presents a wide variety of concepts from scholars and practitioners who discuss pedagogies of kindness, an alternative to the «no excuses» ideology now dominating the way that children are raised and educated in the U.S. today. The fields of education, and especially early childhood education, include some histories and perspectives that treat those who are younger with kindness and respect. This book demonstrates an informed awareness of this history and the ways that old and new ideas can counter current conditions that are harmful to both those who are younger and those who are older, while avoiding the reconstitution of the romantic, innocent child who needs to be saved by more advanced adults. Two interpretations of the upbringing of children are investigated and challenged, one suggesting that the poor do not know how to raise their children and thus need help, while the other looks at those who are privileged and therefore know how to nurture their young. These opposing views have been discussed and problematized for more than thirty years. Pedagogies of Kindness and Respect investigates the issue of why this circumstance has continued and even worsened today.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education: Can Hope (Still)Audaciously Trump Neoliberalism?Anyone who is touched by public education – teachers, administrators, teacher-educators, students... more Anyone who is touched by public education – teachers, administrators, teacher-educators, students, parents, politicians, pundits, and citizens – ought to read this book, a revamped and updated second edition. It will speak to educators, policymakers and citizens who are concerned about the future of education and its relation to a robust, participatory democracy. The perspectives offered by a wonderfully diverse collection of contributors provide a glimpse into the complex, multilayered factors that shape, and are shaped by, education institutions today. The analyses presented in this text are critical of how globalization and neoliberalism exert increasing levels of control over the public institutions meant to support the common good. Readers of this book will be well prepared to participate in the dialogue that will influence the future of public education in United States, and beyond – a dialogue that must seek the kind of change that represents hope for all students. As for the question contained in the title of the book – The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education: Can Hope (Still) Audaciously Trump Neoliberalism? (Second Edition) –, Carr and Porfilio develop a framework that integrates the work of the contributors, including Christine Sleeter and Dennis Carlson, who wrote the original forward and afterword respectively, and the updated ones written by Paul Street, Peter Mclaren and Dennis Carlson, which problematize how the Obama administration has presented an extremely constrained, conservative notion of change in and through education. The rhetoric has not been matched by meaningful, tangible, transformative proposals, policies and programs aimed at transformative change, and now fully into a second mandate this second edition of the book is able to more substantively provide a vigorous critique of the contemporary educational and political landscape. There are many reasons for this, and, according to the contributors to this book, it is clear that neoliberalism is a major obstacle to stimulating the hope that so many have been hoping for. Addressing systemic inequities embedded within neoliberalism, Carr and Porfilio argue, is key to achieving the hope so brilliantly presented by Obama during the campaign that brought him to the presidency.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Revisiting The Great White North? Reframing Whiteness, Privilege, and Identity in EducationReturning seven years later to their original pieces from this landmark book, over 20 leading sch... more Returning seven years later to their original pieces from this landmark book, over 20 leading scholars and activists revisit and reframe their rich contributions to a burgeoning scholarship on Whiteness. With new reflective writings for each chapter, and valuable sections on relevant readings and resources, this volume refreshes and enhances the first text to pay critical and sustained attention to Whiteness in education, with implications far beyond national borders. Contributors include George Sefa Dei, Tracey Lindberg, Carl James, Cynthia Levine-Rasky, and the late Patrick Solomon. Courageously examining diverse perspectives, contexts, and institutional practices, contributors to this volume dismantle the underpinnings of inequitable power relations, privilege, and marginalization. The book’s relevance extends to those in a range of settings, with abundant and poignant lessons for enhancing and understanding transformative social justice work in education. Revisiting The Great White North? offers terrific grist for examining the persistence of Whiteness even as it shape-shifts. Chapters are comprehensive, theoretically rich, and anchored in personal experience. Authors’ reflections on the seven years since publication of the first edition of this book complexify how we understand Whiteness, while simultaneously driving home the need not only to grapple with it, but to work against it. Christine Sleeter,Professor Emerita, California State University Monterey Bay Our understanding of racial inequities in education will be impoverished unless we look deeply at White privilege, its variation in different contexts, and resistances to change. Such is the call in this important book by Lund, Carr, and colleagues, whose analyses within Canadian contexts, framed and re-framed for this captivating revised edition, will be useful to educators and scholars around the world. Read this book today. Kevin Kumashiro, Dean, School of Education, University of San Francisco; President, National Association for Multicultural Education   Darren Lund and Paul Carr have given the contributors to their original 2007 text the opportunity to revisit, rethink, reconceptualize, and reframe their earlier work. The result is an interesting, invigorating, and unsettling group of chapters that challenge readers to also revisit and rethink their own ideas about Whiteness, privilege, and power …. Teachers, administrators, policymakers, and researchers will all benefit from this critical work. Sonia Nieto, Professor Emerita, Language, Literacy, and Culture College of Education, University of Massachusetts, Amherst Lund and Carr bring together a superb collection of authors who collectively challenge readers to go beyond liberal platitudes about race … until educators confront the political, social and economic consequences of inequitably distributed privilege, the path towards equality and freedom will remain elusive. By immersing us in the discourse of Whiteness, the essays in this book illuminate that very path. Joel Westheimer, University Research Chair & Professor, Faculty of Education, University of OttawaSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Social Context Reform: A Pedagogy of Equity and OpportunityCurrently, both the status quo of public education and the "No Excuses" Reform policies are ident... more Currently, both the status quo of public education and the "No Excuses" Reform policies are identical. The reform offers a popular and compelling narrative based on the meritocracy and rugged individualism myths that are supposed to define American idealism. This volume will refute this ideology by proposing Social Context Reform, a term coined by Paul Thomas which argues for educational change within a larger plan to reform social inequity—such as access to health care, food, higher employment, better wages and job security. Since the accountability era in the early 1980s, policy, public discourse, media coverage, and scholarly works have focused primarily on reforming schools themselves. Here, the evidence that school-only reform does not work is combined with a bold argument to expand the discourse and policy surrounding education reform to include how social, school, and classroom reform must work in unison to achieve goals of democracy, equity, and opportunity both in and through public education. This volume will include a wide variety of essays from leading critical scholars addressing the complex elements of social context reform, all of which address the need to re-conceptualize accountability and to seek equity and opportunity in social and education reform.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Educating for Democratic Consciousness: Counter-hegemonic PossibilitiesThere is a widespread, but mainly untenable, assumption that education in Western societies (and ... more There is a widespread, but mainly untenable, assumption that education in Western societies (and elsewhere) intuitively and horizontally aids the democratic development of people. An argument could be made that in contemporary liberal democracies, education was never designed for the well-being of societies. Instead of the full inclusion of everyone in educational development, it becomes dominated by those with a vested interest in the role of the liberal state as a mediating agent that, ultimately, assures the supremacy of the capitalism and neoliberalism. This book extends beyond a theoretical analysis of democratic education, seeking to tap into the substantial experiences, perspectives and research of a wide range of leading scholars from diverse vantage points, who bring themselves and their work into the debate connecting democracy and education, which elucidates the reference to counter-hegemonic possibilities in the title.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Can Educators Make a Difference?: Experimenting With and Experiencing Democracy in Educationby David Zyngier and Paul R CarrAs the title of this book suggests, how we understand, perceive and experience democracy may have... more As the title of this book suggests, how we understand, perceive and experience democracy may have a significant effect on how we actually engage in, and with, democracy. Within the educational context, this is a key concern, and forms the basis of the research presented in this volume within a critical, comparative analysis. The Global Doing Democracy Research Project (GDDRP), which currently has some 70 scholars in over 20 countries examining how educators do democracy, provides the framework in which diverse scholars explore a host of concerns related to democracy and democratic education, including the impact of neoliberalism, political literacy, critical engagement, teaching and learning for and about democracy, social justice, and the meaning of power/power relations within the educational context. Ultimately, the contributors of this book collectively ask: can there be democracy without a critically engaged education, and, importantly, what role do educators play in this context and process? Why many educators in diverse contexts believe that they are unable, dissuaded and/or prevented from doing thick democratic education is problematized in this book but the authors also seek to illustrate that, despite the challenges, barriers and concerns about doing democracy in education, something can, and should, be done to develop, cultivate and ingratiate schools and society with more meaningful democratic practices and processes. This book breaks new ground by using a similar empirical methodology within a number of international contexts to gage the democratic sentiments and actions of educators, which raises a host of questions about epistemology, teacher education, policy development, pedagogy, institutional cultures, conscientization, and the potential for transformational change in education. REVIEWS "If there was ever a time to reclaim and renew the power of democracy it is in this historical moment, when people everywhere are calling for the remaking of society. Can educators make a difference? provides a powerful affirmation to the question, by critically bringing together a variety of philosophical and practical concerns. More important, the book serves as an invaluable pedagogical resource for educators committed to a genuine praxis of democratic life, in the classroom and beyond." Antonia Darder Loyola Marymount University  "Can educators make a difference in their students’ lives? Most people will automatically answer with an emphatic “YES”. But if we press a bit further and ask: Can educators make a difference in the democratization of societies? Probably we will find a lot more hesitant answers. These are two deceptively simple questions, but I don’t know any “educator” worth the title that doesn’t struggle every day trying to find satisfactory answers to those two questions. Can educators make a difference? Experimenting with, and Experiencing, Democracy in Education is one of those very rare books that will assist teachers, especially those working in teacher education programs, to find effective ways to strengthen the relationships of schooling and democracy. Using detailed analyses of experiments with democratic schools, and experiences of democracy in education, the contributors of this book provide both conceptually sophisticated, as well as proven practical, initiatives to assist educators worldwide to affirm their central role in schools as transformative critical cultural professionals; supporting the goal of making every teacher a teacher of democracy. This is an outstanding book and should be required reading in every teacher education program." Gustavo E. Fischman Arizona State University  "What a rich collection of thinkers and educators from around the globe, all deeply committed to fostering a thick and robust version of democracy. Their engagement of students, their use of a solid body of theory and data, and their bold challenges to thin and stultifying versions of democracy, come together in this welcome book. I am pleased to report that the question asked in their title is answered in this hopeful text, that it is a resounding “yes,” and that there is still much work to be done." Darren E. Lund University of Calgary  "I loved this book! It is powerful. It asks hugely important questions about democratic and undemocratic/anti-democratic education, pedagogy, curriculum, organization, ideology and control. As well as asking what (and who) education does currently serve, its international group of writers/researchers/activists also asks what/whose purposes should education serve? And it goes further. It shows how, in different national contexts and with international/global resonance, teachers and students can do deep democratic education. This excellent volume, based on the “Global Doing Democracy Research Project”, really can and does take critical educators, social justice educators, educators for democratic citizenship forward. Exciting stuff!" Dave Hill University of Middlesex (London) in The Journal for Critical Education Policy Studies CONTENTSAcknowledgements. Foreword: Reflections on the Global Doing Democracy Research Project, Daniel Schugurensky. Introducing the Global Doing Democracy Research Project: Seeking to Understand the Perspectives, Experiences and Perceptions of Teachers in Relation to Democracy in Education, David Zyngier and Paul R. Carr. Democracy, Critical Pedagogy and the Education of Educators, Paul R.Carr. Re-Discovering Democracy: Putting Action (Back) into Active Citizenship and Praxis (Back) into Practice, David Zyngier. Can We Teach Deep Democracy: And Can It Make a Difference? Carolyn M. Shields. Getting Beyond Flat-Out Bored: The Challenges and Possibilities of Creating a Democratic Space for Social Justice Education in Publically Funded Schools, Michael O’Sullivan. Preservice Teachers’ Conceptions of Democratic Essence: Interpretations of Democratic Principles, and Their Connections to Social Justice, Economic Class, and Spirituality/Religion in the United States, Thomas A. Lucey. What Kind of Citizenship for What Kind of Democracy? Are We Spectators of Everyday Events or Protagonists in History? Adriana Murriello, Andrea Ledwith, and Cecilia Naddeo. Teacher Education and Democracy: Preparing Teachers in Metropolitan Buenos Aires, María Delia Traverso. Education for Democracy in Perúvian Society, Felix Reátegui and Susana Frisancho. Doing Democracy in Education: Perspectives of Malaysian Principals, Sazali Yusoff. “Critical Multicultural Social Studies” for “Deep Democracy”: Theory and Practice, Marc Pruyn. About the Contributors.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Educating for Peace in a Time of Permanent War: Are Schools Part of the Solution or the Problem?by Bradley J Porfilio and Paul R CarrWhat is the meaning of peace, why should we study it, and how should we achieve it? Although ther... more What is the meaning of peace, why should we study it, and how should we achieve it? Although there are an increasing number of manuscripts, curricula and initiatives that grapple with some strand of peace education, there is, nonetheless, a dearth of critical, cross-disciplinary, international projects/books that examine peace education in conjunction with war and conflict. Within this volume, the authors contend that war/military conflict/violence are not a nebulous, far-away, mysterious venture; rather, they argue that we are all, collectively, involved in perpetrating and perpetuating militarization/conflict/violence inside and outside of our own social circles. Therefore, education about and against war can be as liberating as it is necessary. If war equates killing, can our schools avoid engaging in the examination of what war is all about? If education is not about peace, then is it about war? Can a society have education that willfully avoids considering peace as its central objective? Can a democracy exist if pivotal notions of war and peace are not understood, practiced, advocated and ensconced in public debate? These questions, according to Carr and Porfilio and the contributors they have assembled, merit a critical and extensive reflection. This book seeks to provide a range of epistemological, policy, pedagogical, curriculum and institutional analyses aimed at facilitating meaningful engagement toward a more robust and critical examination of the role that schools play (and can play) in framing war, militarization and armed conflict and, significantly, the connection to peace.REVIEWS"The doomsday clock moves closer to midnight in a world that has gone mad with violence and perpetual war. The power of the military to manufacture and sanitize death, devastation and destruction has never been interrogated before by critical educators. Educating for Peace in a Time of Permanent War: Are Schools Part of the Solution or the Problem? is the first volume of its kind in which the militarization of education (both in curriculum and in the larger pedagogical order) is examined. This is an extremely important book that should be read by all educators."- Karen Anijar, Professor Emeritus, Arizona State University"In Educating for Peace in a Time of Permanent War" Are Schools Part of the Solution or the Problem?, editors Paul R. Carr and Brad J. Porfilio skillfully weave together and present the intellectual capital (the theory, philosophy and empirical work) of a set of international scholars par excellence. In five engaging sections – 'Theorizing Peace, War and Peace'; 'Scanning the War in Our Daily (and Educational) Lives'; 'The Curriculum of War and Peace'; 'Internationalizing Peace and the Trauma of War and Conflict'; and, 'Resisting the Militarization of Education' – and contextualized between the inspiring bookends of a Foreword by Antonia Darder and an Afterword by Zvi Bekerman, the authors explore virtually every aspect of the role of education in the drive for war and its perpetuation, and its equally liberatory potential in perusing its antithesis, peace. Any activist, student or academic working in the areas of peace, education, sociology, social justice or anti-imperialism – or anyone excited about the current world-wide push-back against the forces of oppression (neo-liberalism, authoritarianism, sexism, racism and homophobia) – would be remiss not to carefully read and consider the important thoughts and analyses proffered in this strikingly important volume!"- Marc Pruyn, Senior Lecturer, Monash University"In our shadowed time of military solutions to chronic problems, schools themselves mirror these means toward an end. The authors in this volume critically assess the role of schooling as a tool of governments and nation-building through analysis of the military mind and militarism in our teaching and learning. They find in the efficiency and surveillance of a modern nation-state a cast of mind and a portfolio of practices that seep inexorably down to authoritarian accountability measures in many schools today. I was particularly struck to realize that common means of peace education may be too weak or incomplete to counter the military mind and its accepted solutions to conflict, especially when the war machine becomes a major means to economic prosperity. The part of this volume devoted to classroom practices by critical peace educators around the world gave me some hope that teaching and learning in and out of schools may someday become generative, rather than reactive, incubators for a new life. This new life would be a way of being in the world that is not simply an altered cast of mind or an amended outlook. It would be a culture of peace-building that would begin to counter the suspicion of our relationships with one another, the violence of modes of being with non-human animals, and the exploitation of our planet."- A. G. Rud, Dean and Professor, Washington State UniversitySave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education: Can Hope Audaciously Trump Neoliberalism?by Bradley J Porfilio and Paul R CarrIn The phenomenon of Obama and the agenda for education: Can hope audaciously trump neoliberalism... more In The phenomenon of Obama and the agenda for education: Can hope audaciously trump neoliberalism?, Paul R. Carr and Brad J. Porfilio bring together some of the most well-respected transformative scholars and practitioners in order to provide a critical examination of the Obama administration’s educational agenda. The volume aims to go beyond the rhetoric generated by the mass media, political pundits, and large-scale corporations that suggests that neoliberal educational policies will ameliorate schools, a failing economy, and the social ills plaguing US society. The contributors to this book diagnose how the proposed and actual educational policies seek to bolster corporations in their quest to profit off youths’ bodies and minds as well as, importantly, producing, in many instances, compliant teachers and students who lack the fortitude and engagement to question the inequitable power relations that cause untold human suffering, misery and environmental degradation at today’s historical juncture. Some of the chapters examine how specific neoliberal educational policies embraced by the Obama administration, such as charter schools, standardized examinations, merit pay, and accountability schemes, are having an deleterious impact on minoritized students and communities across the US. Finally, several contributors design narratives of resistance for educators, caregivers, scholars, and other concerned citizens. Their visions and ideals give us hope that it is, indeed, possible to eradicate the commercial forces responsible for the proliferation of joblessness, homelessness, poverty, and militarized, underfunded, and commercialized educational spaces, as well as the school-to-prison pipeline within the US, which frames the intense suffering, misery, and oppression infiltrating most social contexts across the globe. As for the question contained in the title of the book--Can hope audaciously trump neoliberalism?--, Carr and Porfilio develop a framework that problematizes how the Obama administration has presented an extremely constrained, conservative notion of change in and through education. The rhetoric has not been matched by meaningful, tangible, transformative proposals, policies and programs aimed at transformative change. There are many reasons for this, and, according to the contributors to this book, it is clear that neoliberalism is a major obstacle to stimulating the hope that so many have been hoping for. Addressing systemic inequities embedded within neoliberalism, Carr and Porfilio argue, is key to achieving the hope so brilliantly presented by Obama during the campaign that brought him to the presidency.From the back-cover:The times call for audacious and courageous responses to an education reform agenda that, sadly even under President Obama, embodies standardization, privatization, and competition at the expense of equity and a democratic vision of education. The authors of The Phenomenon of Obama offer such a response and bring us back to the true purpose of education: to nurture teaching and learning, collaboration, community, and social justice. Sonia Nieto, Professor Emerita, University of Massachusetts, Amherst  Paul Carr and Brad Porfilio's book is thus a desperately necessary shot of critical democratic sobriety on the confusing politics of U.S. public education. More than ever before we need this type of serious institutional analysis, not myth-making media points, if we are to dare a new social order (either with the schools or without them). Richard Kahn, Education Department, Antioch University Los Angeles The perspectives offered by a wonderfully diverse collection of contributors provide a glimpse into the complex, multilayered factors that shape, and are shaped by, institutions of schooling today. The analyses presented in this text are critical as globalization and neoliberalism exert increasing levels of control over the public institutions meant to support the common good. Readers of this book will be well prepared to participate in the dialogue that will influence the future of public education in this nation – a dialogue that must seek the kind of change that represents hope for all students. Julie A. Gorlewski, Faculty of Education, SUNY New Paltz The Phenomenon of Obama and the Agenda for Education provides a justified critical analysis of the anti-democratic education reform initiatives being launched by powerful elites in the U.S. In times of increasing social, economic, and educational inequality, the sharp critique offered by this volume is one part lament, one part righteous indignation, and totally necessary. Wayne Au, Editor, Rethinking Schools, & Faculty of Education, University of Washington – Bothell Campus This urgently needed collection exposes the neoliberal architecture of the Obama administration’s initiatives within and beyond education. These careful essays describe the economic, political, and philosophical formations underlying this administration’s market-driven approaches to teaching and learning, as well as revealing the ideological strategies through which elites sell their one-sided policies to the public. Carr and Porfilio have compiled an engaging and indispensable resource for researchers, educators, and activists interested in understanding and confronting the contemporary corporatization and instrumentalization of education. Noah De Lissovoy, Faculty of Education, University of Texas at Austin.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Does your vote count? Critical pedagogy and democracyThe public debate on democracy is often constrained within an alienating and disenfranchising nar... more The public debate on democracy is often constrained within an alienating and disenfranchising narrative of opinion polls, campaign platforms, personalities and formal structures that generate legislation, all of which surreptitiously seems to trickle down to the classroom. Paul R. Carr asserts that democracy must be cultivated in a vigorous, conscientious, meaningful and critical way in and through education in order for it to have salience in society, especially within a neoliberal conjuncture that promotes limited space for epistemological interrogation of how we understand and are engaged in maintaining and/or transforming our societies. Building on the critical pedagogical work of Paulo Freire, Joe L. Kincheloe, and others, this book develops a framework for understanding how a thicker democratic education can be conceptualized and implemented in schools. The book aims to move the focus on democracy away from voting, and place it more properly on the importance of social justice and political literacy as a way of understanding what democracy is and, importantly, how to make it more relevant for all of society. The book concludes that another democracy is possible, as well as being desirable, and that education is the fundamental intersection in which it must be developed........"Paul R. Carr has produced a rich and impressive examination of the multiplicity of relationships among notions of democratic formation, critical pedagogy, human rights, anti-racism, and feminist, anti-colonial, political and cultural studies. Drawing from a deep well of intriguing and eclectic sources..., he moves with clarity and élan between the broad and the narrow, the general and the specific to capture the power of theory without sacrificing the nitty-gritty of concrete practice. A balance of possibilities rather than false dualisms will be found here. Does Your Vote Count? has become an essential contribution to my own work and teaching."--Tom Wilson, Chapman University......."In Does Your Vote Count? Paul R. Carr extends the critical analysis and contextualization of Democracy while carefully trying not to fall in the trap of offering new final understandings and solutions for what democracy and democratic processes should be. I read Carr's book as an invitation to approach democracy (re-written with a small d) through critical pedagogicalperspectives, opening democracy's meaning to multiple understandings, and diverse human experiences. We should all try to join in this dialogue which Carr, joining other great critical voices of the past (Freire, Kincheloe), considers to be one guided by humility."--Zvi Bekerman, Hebrew University......."In this compendium of writings, Paul R. Carr...calls for a rethinking of bourgeois democratic politics. What are the contours surrounding this conception of democracy and what are its limitations? What alternative conceptions of democracy ought to be brought to fruition if we are to overcome the onslaught of the 'neo-liberal,' neo-fascist and White-Anthropocentric policies we have been witnessing, and under which the majority world and eco-system have been suffering? What effective responses can a socially engaging critical pedagogy afford us in this regard? Thisbook covers a lot of ground and should inspire all those who dream of and work for a better world."--Peter Mayo, University of Malta......."This book should be of great interest to teachers, scholars and researchers interested in critical pedagogy. The book opens up the whole question of criticality, and of what kinds of criticality are acceptable in educational settings. It directly speaks to examining issues in education from a plurality of academic viewpoints and perspectives including the broader policy issues, i.e., minority studies, democracy, and issues of educational equality and equity. Without a doubt, it will have both a scholarly and intellectual impact on the field. Paulo Freire's approach to critical pedagogy is well served here, as is the legacy of the late Joe L. Kincheloe, whose many contributions and influence are evident throughout this book."--Sheila Macrine, New Jersey City University......."Paul R. Carr has written an innovative and timely book on the current state of democracy, which, he argues, can no longer be understood within mainstream, hegemonic, electoral-based thinking. His meshing of democracy with critical pedagogy is a welcome addition to the literature and the field. He meticulously documents how neo-liberal democracy has wrought many anti-democratic measures, events and inequities. More importantly, Carr demonstrates how education, from a critical pedagogical vantage point, can bring hope to those who have been discarded by Westernized democratic electoral systems that refuse to respond to the needs of the people....This book breaks fresh ground in arguing that educators (and citizens) can fashion anew, more resilient and more meaningful democracy. This book moves the debate away from how and who gets elected to the essence of power and engagement within society. Democracy is more than elections, and, as Carr points out, it should involve a transformative ethos built around a critical pedagogical educational experience."--Peter McLaren, UCLA......."For readers familiar with critical pedagogy, Paul R. Carr's book brings together and extends some of [its] core commitments: the eradication of oppression in school and society, making visible and ultimately resisting the effects of militaristic, hegemonic, racist, sexist, colonialist and other oppressive ideologies, and working with students to develop the skills to engage in meaningful and informed examinations about hegemonic practices throughout the world, and participate in robust democratic dialogues about challenging these practices. For readers who are not familiar with critical pedagogy, ...the book contributes a very detailed discussion of democratic (or perhaps democracy) literacy in all aspects of school structures. The book explores a range of examples, questions and case studies that underscore the complexity of democracy discourses as they emerge in a variety of settings. ...Carr's...care and passion for these issues is evident....Throughout the text, Carr does not lose sight of the blind spots and gray areas that make engagement with democracy a messy art. All of this results in a thoughtfully written book that would make a welcome addition to the critical educator's library."--Özlem Sensoy, Simon Fraser University......."A clear and insightful work that revisits the nature and implications [of] robust democracy in and for education, while offering persuasive justifications for the Freirean tradition of critical education through the use of lived experiences and research. Paul R. Carr provides a refreshing critical discussion of 'econ-ocracy' and the mythology it has created."--John Portelli, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto......."In this book, Paul R. Carr does an outstanding job capturing how teachers, researchers, scholars and informed citizens can utilize critical pedagogy to get us beyond the mainstream version of democracy in North America--election politics, polling and parties--that is responsible for perpetuating social inequalities in schools and in the wider society, to engendering a social realityconsisting of critically engaged citizenship, diversity, freedom, hope and justice. Not only does this book highlight the social, economic and political forces behind...entrenched educational and political structures that perpetuate conformity, oppression and intolerance, but it provides readers with pedagogical ideas, original research, and concepts to reflect upon how critical pedagogy can become the cornerstone to creating a reflexive praxis and building an equalitarian society."--Brad Porfilio, Lewis University........"Paul R. Carr's rigorous examination of democracy and critical pedagogy offers timely suggestions for the role education might play in ushering in a less oppressive, less exploitative, less Euro-centric, less barbaric, post-capitalist, post-imperialist world. In a context where one's individual vote arguably has limited political impact on disrupting the basic structures of capitalist power, Carr's emphasis on direct democratic action beyond the voting booth is a necessary reminder of the responsibility of educators to nurture the critical agency and commitment to social justice within their students. Does Your Vote Count? should be engaged with by educators and students everywhere."--Curry Stephenson Malott, D'Youville CollegeSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Youth Culture, Education and Resistance: Subverting the Commercial Ordering of LifeYouth Culture, Education and Resistance: Subverting the Commercial Ordering of Life is a groundbr... more Youth Culture, Education and Resistance: Subverting the Commercial Ordering of Life is a groundbreaking collection of essays that illustrate how youth culture has the potential to build solidarity amongst teachers, activists, scholars, and practitioners for the purposes of confronting the dominant ideological doctrine influencing life at today’s historical juncture—emblemized through neoliberalism—as well as building a society free from oppressive social formations. Several leading international scholars and educators provide empirically and theoretically rich portraits of youth challenging the commercialized status quo inside and outside K-12 classrooms. They also illustrate how cultural manifestations of youth speak directly against the social actors who continually vilify youth as the source of their own marginalization and the world’s suffering and misery.Youth Culture, Education and Resistance: Confronting Commerialization and Neo-Liberalism continues the important legacy of critical pedagogy by remaining defi ant in the face of what seems an unimpeachable foe. Given the daunting task faced by critical educators, it is heartening to see Brad Porfi lio and Paul Carr bringing together such a relentlessly creative and courageous group of critical educators, who refuse to give up the struggle to bring social justice to education and the world-at-large, a world increasingly eviscerated of social services on behalf of finance capital.—Peter McLaren, UCLA ((from the Foreword)Youth Culture, Education and Resistance by Brad Porfilio and Paul Carr is a timely and powerful intervention in contemporary literature on youth, education, and neo-liberalism. Collectively, the authors and editors open up the discussion around young people today, offering us a new and richer language to think about the specifi c kinds of inequalities young people face today—and how they are being resisted.—Greg Dimitriadis, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York (from the Afterword)What I find valuable about this volume is the way in which the authors look beyond tinkering with the policies of current or outgoing leaders. As this volume emphasizes, the real hope is to be found where it always has been found: in the resistance of youth. Our masters criminalize youth for the same basic reasons that they marginalize and racialize others: to divide and subjugate. I strongly recommend this volume to teachers and academics interested in looking beyond our immediate and localized concerns.—Douglas Fleming, University of OttawaThe contributors to this volume present both a theoretically complex analysis of neo-liberalism and the negative consequences for education, and a pedagogically rich portrayal of what is possible possible if we only placed people before profits. Engaging, critical, and ground-breaking.—David Hursh, University of RochesterSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Great White North? Exploring Whiteness, Privilege and Identity in Educationby Darren Lund, Paul R Carr, and Bradley J Porfilio"This landmark book represents the first text to pay critical and sustained attention to Whitenes... more "This landmark book represents the first text to pay critical and sustained attention to Whiteness in Canada from an impressive line-up of leading scholars and activists. The burgeoning scholarship on Whiteness will benefit richly from this book’s timely inclusion of the insights of Canadian scholars, educators, activists and others working for social justice within and through the educational system, with implications far beyond national borders. Over 20 leading scholars and activists have contributed a diversity of chapters offering a concerted scholarly analysis of how the complex problematic of Whiteness affects the structure, culture, content and achievement within education in Canada. Contributors include James Frideres, Carl James, Cynthia Levine-Rasky, and Patrick Solomon. The book critically examines diverse perspectives, contexts, and the construction and application of societal and institutional practices, both formal and informal, that underpin inequitable power relations and disenfranchisement. Its relevance extends beyond the Canadian context, as those in other global settings will find abundant and poignant lessons for their own trans-formative work in education with a particular focus on social justice. The Great White North? Exploring Whiteness, Privilege and Identity in Education has won two awards: the Canadian Race Relations Foundation's Award of Excellence (2008), and the Canadian Association of Foundations in Education's Publication Award (2009). Several reviews have also been written on this book, and they can be accessed at www.paulrcarr.net."Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Doing Democracy: Striving for Political Literacy and Social Justiceby Darren Lund and Paul R CarrIn this provocative collection of essays with a distinctly critical and nuanced approach to how d... more In this provocative collection of essays with a distinctly critical and nuanced approach to how democracy is taught, learned, understood, and lived, authors from four continents share their visions on how democracy needs to be cultivated, critiqued, demonstrated, and manifested throughout the educational experience. The collective concern is how we actually do democracy in education. The essays argue that democracy must be infused in everything that happens at school: curriculum,extra-curricular activities, interaction with parents and communities, and through formal organization and structures.One of the book’s central questions is: Are educators merely teaching students skills and knowledge to prepare them for the world of work, or is education more about encouraging students to thrive within a pluralistic society? This book reveals that democracy is an ethos, an ideology, a set of values, a philosophy, and a complex and dynamic terrain that is a contested forum for debate.From seasoned veterans to emerging scholars, these writers challenge the idea that there is only one type of democracy, or that democracy is defined by elections. Using a range of theoretical, conceptual, and methodological approaches, each essay makes a compelling case for how education can advance a more critical engagement in democracy that promotes socialjustice and political literacy for all. Diverse examples illustrate the theme of doing democracy. With its numerous models for teaching and learning to encourage critical thinking and engagement, this book is certain to be an invaluable resource to educators, researchers, students, and anyone with a passion fordemocratic ideals.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Les faces cachées de l’interculturel: De la rencontre des porteurs de culturesby Nicole Carignan, Paul R Carr, and Gina ThéséeCe collectif propose de croiser les regards interculturels de chercheurs et d’intervenants, d’uni... more Ce collectif propose de croiser les regards interculturels de chercheurs et d’intervenants, d’universitaires et de praticiens du champ de l’interculturel notamment en psychologie, sociologie, éducation, pédagogie, didactique, philosophie, communication, éthique, anthropologie et travail social. Ces analyses interdisciplinaires convient les auteurs à proposer des réflexions critiques, des remises en question d’idées reçues et des perspectives pluridimensionnelles sur des stratégies d’intervention, des modèles de communication ou de pratiques éducatives et pédagogiques.Ces regards croisés nous incitent à questionner de nouvelles configurations spatiales, temporelles ou symboliques, à ouvrir la porte à l’exploration de nouvelles relations et à suggérer des frontières inédites. Ces regards croisés invitent à (re)dessiner des passerelles inattendues telles que les limites entre le proche et le lointain, l’un et le particulier, l’ici et l’ailleurs, ou encore, le semblable et le différent.Bien qu’ils génèrent des barrières difficiles à surmonter, ces regards permettent de rechercher des voies originales pour préserver, (ré)inventer ou (re)construire patiemment des liens en plus de proposer certains repères pour développer notre compréhension relativement aux faces cachées de la recherche interculturelle.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
¿ Pero qué puedo hacer YO?" Quince propuestas auto/transformadoras para estudiantes de educaciónPOSTCONVENCIONALES: Ética, Universidad, Democracia,  Jan 4, 2011Resumen Los estudiantes de educación a menudo se han preguntado:“¿ Pero qué puedo hacer yo?” Esta... more Resumen Los estudiantes de educación a menudo se han preguntado:“¿ Pero qué puedo hacer yo?” Esta noción de que la experiencia educativa tiene que ver sobre todo con transmitir destrezas y conocimientos a los estudiantes, y no sobre algún proceso de transformación, empoderamiento o compromiso con el mundo, es el foco del presente artículo. El argumento central es que los educadores pueden hacer algo para facilitar, inculcar y cultivar el cambio, y que los actos individuales pueden conducir a cambios ...Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Insurrectional and Pandoran Democracy, Military Perversion and The Quest for Environmental Peace: The Last Frontiers of Ecopedagogy Before UsPostdigital Ecopedagogies ,  2022This chapter explores the intersection between (insurrectional and Pandoran) democracy, the postd... more This chapter explores the intersection between (insurrectional and Pandoran) democracy, the postdigital context, (pervasive) militarization and ecopedagogy. Can we achieve meaningful ecopedagogy within dysfunctional forms of anti-democratic democracy? Is the appetite to build and use killing machines the consequence or the instigator of thin, docile, neutered democracy? What will it take to achieve broad-based engagement with/for the environment, which can counter and override nebulous, supposedly democratic systems that are reluctant to act? While many people around the world are preoccupied with the environment, including in education, social movements, solidarity groups, animal rights groups and others, why are national and international institutions still seemingly lagging behind? These questions underpin a critical analysis of where ecopedagogy might be headed within the postdigital context.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Lund, Darren E. & Carr, Paul R. (2015). Reframing Whiteness. In Lund, Darren E. & Carr, Paul R. (eds.). Revisiting The Great White North? Reframing Whiteness, Privilege and Identity in Education (pp. 1-10). Rotterdam: Sense PublishersSave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Social Justice i and Whiteness in Education: Color-blind Policymaking and RacismFew studies have been undertaken on the conceptualization of policy frameworks aiming to (re-)str... more Few studies have been undertaken on the conceptualization of policy frameworks aiming to (re-)structure, oversee and promote (specifically) social justice in education. While there is much formal discussion on the need for social justice in education, the required action has not materialized, and notably absent is a strong, demonstrable commitment to accountability in this area. This paper examines the educational policymaking process from a critical vantage-point based on the author&#39;s experience in government working on social justice issues, exposing how White power and privilege undermine the myriad efforts, initiatives and policies aimed at addressing the social justice domain. When inequitable power relations characterize and shape the educational policymaking process, the implications for marginalized groups are significant. The paper questions the legitimacy of governments and their educational systems to focus on accountability and democracy if social justice is not an i...Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Algunos pensamientos sobre la tormenta que se avecina en las redes sociales, el medio ambiente y la necesidad de un diálogo transformador y democráticoRevista de Sociología,  2021Este texto presenta algunos argumentos que vinculan las redes sociales, el medio ambiente y la ne... more Este texto presenta algunos argumentos que vinculan las redes sociales, el medio ambiente y la necesidad de un diálogo transformador, en el contexto de marcos teóricos superpuestos de la democracia. Sostengo que la manipulación de los medios y las noticias falsas no son un fenómeno nuevo, pero que el contexto de las redes sociales ha complicado la diseminación y sofisticación de los procesos hegemónicos que cubren todos los rincones del mundo. Las conspiraciones que sustentan el movimiento anti-vax, que impugnan la derrota del presidente Trump, la xenofobia y muchas otras proporcionan algunos contextos de cómo el medio ambiente es y puede ser distorsionado a través de mensajes virales, mitos urbanos, comentarios, videos, textos y otros medios dentro de un torrente de ideología anti-ciencia. El texto concluye con algunas reflexiones sobre obstáculos, implicaciones y consecuencias particulares, así como innovaciones que pueden ser útiles para hacer avanzar un diálogo significativo en ...Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Seeking Democracy Inside, and Outside, of Education: Re-Conceptualizing Perceptions and Experiences Related to Democracy and EducationDemocracy education,  2017This conceptual article underscores the importance of critical engagement in and through educatio... more This conceptual article underscores the importance of critical engagement in and through education with a view to enhancing education for democracy (EfD). As a centerpiece to illustrating this connection, we refer to our research project, which engages international actors through an analysis of the perceptions, experiences and perspectives of education students, educators and others in relation to EfD. The article presents the ThickThin Spectrum of EfD and a Spectrum for Critical Engagement for EfD to re(present) the problematic of political engagement and literacy on the part of teachereducation students. The findings of our study highlight a necessity for education to be connected and linked to deliberative and participatory democracy in a critical manner in order to create positive, progressive, and transformative educational opportunities, especially in relation to inequitable power relations and social justice. In sum, we seek to re(conceptualize) the meaning of democracy with...Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Teaching in the Age of Covid-19Postdigital Science and Education,  2020Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Engagement with the Mainstream Media and the Relationship to Political LiteracyDemocracy 2.0,  2018Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Shooting Yourself First in the Foot, then in the Head: Normative Democracy Is Suffocating, and then the Coronavirus Came to LightPostdigital Science and Education,  2020This text starts with the premise that ‘normative democracy’ has rendered our societies vulnerabl... more This text starts with the premise that ‘normative democracy’ has rendered our societies vulnerable and burdened with unaddressed social inequalities. I highlight three central arguments: (1) Social media, and, consequently, citizen engagement are becoming a significant filter that can potentially re-imagine the political, economic, and social worlds, which increasingly bleed over to how we might develop and engage with ‘democracy’; to this end, I introduce a brief case study on the nefarious interpretation of the killing of Jamal Khashoggi in 2018 to underscore the tension points in normative democracy; (2) Capitalism, or neoliberalism, needs to be more fully exposed, interrogated, and confronted if ‘normative, representative, hegemonic, electoral democracy’ is to be re-considered, re-imagined, and re-invented; the perpetuation of social inequalities lays bare the frailty of normative democratic institutions; (3) Covid-19 has exposed the fault lines and fissures of normative democra...Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
L’environnement et l’identité écologique dans le roman « Gouverneurs de la rosée » de Jacques RoumainÉducation relative à l'environnement,  2015Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
If Everything Has Changed, Why Such a Focus on Bailing Out Capitalism? The Somber Reality Underpinning Covid-19Postdigital Science and Education,  2020Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The “Equity Waltz” in Canada: Whiteness and the informal realities of racism in educationJournal of Contemporary Issues in Education,  2008Canada has long perceived itself to be a country in which multiculturalism, and a concomitant res... more Canada has long perceived itself to be a country in which multiculturalism, and a concomitant respect for diversity, is a unique and defining feature of its identity. Although Canada is a de facto multicultural country, owing to its rapidly evolving demography and the explicit notion of multiculturalism enshrined in its Constitution, there remains a plethora of problems and issues related to equity, diversity and human rights. This paper explores the context and impact of racism in education within a framework that acknowledges and critically positions the predominance of Whiteness. The salience of identity, therefore, is a primary consideration to understanding how marginalized groups face systemic barriers in education. The concluding analysis sheds light on the educational policy process, and focuses on the notion of accountability for anti-racism and social justice in education within a time of neoliberal reforms. The paper is critical of the lack of attention, resources and com...Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
CarrLundSAGESave to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
“Shock and Awe” and the EnvironmentPeace Review,  2007Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Exposing Privilege and Racism inThe Great White North: Tackling Whiteness and Identity Issues in Canadian EducationMulticultural Perspectives,  2010We began this collaborative Great White North project 1 through a chance meeting of the authors a... more We began this collaborative Great White North project 1 through a chance meeting of the authors at the annual meeting of the National Association for Multicultural Education (NAME) in Atlanta in No...Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Different Perceptions of Race in Education: Racial Minority and White TeachersCanadian Journal of Education / Revue canadienne de l'éducation,  1997Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Political conscientization and media (il) literacy: Critiquing the mainstream media as a form of democratic engagementMulticultural Education,  2009People with high levels of media literacy will have a better understanding of the world, adopt a ... more People with high levels of media literacy will have a better understanding of the world, adopt a position, make their own conclusions, discern truth from fiction, not follow trends, and can have a better opinion and judgment on critical issues. On the other hand people with low levels of media literacy will be vulnerable, affected, impressed, and will have conflicts when digesting the information they receive.(Jack, a teacher-participant in the research)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Doing Democracy: Striving for Political Literacy and Social Justice (Counterpoints: Studies in the Postmodern Theory of Education)In this provocative collection of essays with a distinctly critical and nuanced approach to how d... more In this provocative collection of essays with a distinctly critical and nuanced approach to how democracy is taught, learned, understood, and lived, authors from four continents share their visions on how democracy needs to be cultivated, critiqued, demonstrated, and manifested throughout the educational experience. The collective concern is how we actually do democracy in education. The essays argue that democracy must be infused in everything that happens at school: curriculum, extra-curricular activities, interaction with parents and communities, and through formal organization and structures. One of the book’s central questions is: Are educators merely teaching students skills and knowledge to prepare them for the world of work, or is education more about encouraging students to thrive within a pluralistic society? This book reveals that democracy is an ethos, an ideology, a set of values, a philosophy, and a complex and dynamic terrain that is a contested forum for debate. From...Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
La « valeur ajoutée » de l’éducation antiraciste : conceptualisation et mise en oeuvre au Québec et en OntarioÉducation et francophonie,  2008Résumé Cet article s’interroge sur l’importance d’une prise en compte des éléments d’une approche... more Résumé Cet article s’interroge sur l’importance d’une prise en compte des éléments d’une approche antiraciste et antidiscriminatoire dans l’éducation interculturelle et l’éducation à la citoyenneté en milieu scolaire. En se penchant sur les spécificités et les liens de l’approche antiraciste avec l’éducation inter- ou multiculturelle et l’édu cation à la citoyenneté, l’article présente d’abord sa «valeur ajoutée», les critiques qui lui sont adressées et sa présence comparée dans les milieux scolaires québécois et ontarien. Pour le Québec, il dresse un bref portrait des politiques et pratiques des niveaux primaire et secondaire, à partir des résultats d’une étude menée par Potvin, McAndrew et Kanouté (2006) sur l’éducation antiraciste en milieu scolaire francophone à Montréal. En Ontario, l’analyse est plus générale et jette un regard sur le rapport de la Commission royale sur l’éducation (1995) et sur la seule politique d’éducation antiraciste (ministère de l’Éducation de l’Ontario,...Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Insurrectional and Pandoran Democracy, Military Perversion and The Quest for Environmental Peace: The Last Frontiers of Ecopedagogy Before UsPostdigital Ecopedagogies ,  2022This chapter explores the intersection between (insurrectional and Pandoran) democracy, the postd... more This chapter explores the intersection between (insurrectional and Pandoran) democracy, the postdigital context, (pervasive) militarization and ecopedagogy. Can we achieve meaningful ecopedagogy within dysfunctional forms of anti-democratic democracy? Is the appetite to build and use killing machines the consequence or the instigator of thin, docile, neutered democracy? What will it take to achieve broad-based engagement with/for the environment, which can counter and over-ride nebulous, supposedly democratic systems that are reluctant to act? While many people around the world are preoccupied with the environment, including in education, social movements, solidarity groups, animal rights groups and others, why are national and international institutions still seemingly lagging behind? These questions underpin a critical analysis of where ecopedagogy might be headed within the postdigital context.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Dialogo (en español) sobre la pedagogía crítica  con colegas de la Universidad de MorónInterview/discussion in Spanish with two colleagues from the Universidad de Moron, Argentina, in ... more Interview/discussion in Spanish with two colleagues from the Universidad de Moron, Argentina, in relation to critical pedagogy.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
La democracia y la pedogogia critica http://www.youtube.com/my_videos_timedtext?video_id=K6n3eNSXx1Y
PART 2
http://www.youtube.com/my... more http://www.youtube.com/my_videos_timedtext?video_id=K6n3eNSXx1YPART 2http://www.youtube.com/my_videos_timedtext?video_id=T2evwvQGI_IPART 3http://www.youtube.com/my_videos_timedtext?video_id=EpYIKGYXqJIPART 4http://www.youtube.com/my_videos_timedtext?video_id=PVj85sAj5f0PART 5http://www.youtube.com/my_videos_timedtext?video_id=YwPn_LOEraYPART 6Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
La démocratie et la pédagogie critiquehttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7DgpO-BSGJQ
PART 2
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wRGZz4PUIW8
PAR... more http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7DgpO-BSGJQPART 2http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wRGZz4PUIW8PART 3http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ej3gOkcWAGUPART 4http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQHl_d-_BwIPART 5Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
NUMÉRO THÉMATIQUE : Démocratie, alphabétisation politique et éducation transformatoire : points de rencontres d'acteurs socioéducatifs et de perspectives critiquesCitizenship Education Research Journal /Revue de recherche sur l'éducation à la citoyenneté,  2018Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Business of war and peace, and the potential for education to play a transformative rolePeace Studies Journal,  2013Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Obama, education and neoliberalism: Is there potential for hope and change? Journal of Inquiry and Action in Education,  2011Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
La democracia y la pedagogía críticaPostconvenionales,  2011Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
¿Cambiarse con o sin las redes sociales?Conferencia plenaria: Congreso Internacional de Comunicación y Redes en la Sociedad de la Información, España,  2022¿Es posible vivir sin conectarse con las redes sociales? ¿Podemos aislarnos de alguna manera de l... more ¿Es posible vivir sin conectarse con las redes sociales? ¿Podemos aislarnos de alguna manera de lo que se produce, comenta, comparte y genera a través de las redes sociales? ¿Tenemos siquiera la opción de no ser influenciados por el mundo en línea, con las infinitas interconexiones, memes virales, videos, programas, comentarios y similares, todo lo cual trasciende las barreras culturales, lingüísticas, políticas y económicas? Todo esto para decir que las redes sociales ahora impregnan, invaden y dominan nuestra vida social y nuestra conciencia. El efecto es explícito e implícito, formal e informal, visible e invisible. Al mismo tiempo, estamos cambiando de los paradigmas tradicionales de medios y comunicaciones limitados, controlados y hegemónicos a espacios y voces de acceso más abierto, abiertos y potencialmente democráticos (y también con mucha vigilancia y algoritmos). Podría decirse que los movimientos sociales, por ejemplo, como Black Lives Matter, #YoTambien, Occupy, Idle No More, Indignados (15-M), la Primavera árabe y otros habrían estado mucho más limitados sin las redes sociales. A pesar de las contradicciones y paradojas, las redes sociales han impactado nuestras formas de conocer, interactuar y ser. ¿Y la educación? ¿Cómo debemos entender y relacionarnos con las redes sociales en ya través de la educación?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Raza, racismo, racialización… ¿Vale la pena hablarlo?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
¿Cómo educar para la paz, el diálogo y  la escucha activa en la era digital?¿Qué es la paz? ¿Realmente queremos vivir en un mundo pacífico? Si lo hacemos, ¿De qué modo debem... more ¿Qué es la paz? ¿Realmente queremos vivir en un mundo pacífico? Si lo hacemos, ¿De qué modo debemos dedicarnos a cultivar la paz? ¿Debería la educación para la paz ser una piedra angular de todas las iniciativas encaminadas a lograr una sociedad pacífica? Por un lado, vivimos en un mundo con multitud de conflictos militares abiertos, genocidios, luchas religiosas / raciales / etnoculturales y terrorismo, y feminicidio, violencia de pandillas, microagresiones, violencia policial, violencia en el deporte, bullying, racismo, sexismo y otras formas de la violencia, En cambio, estamos constantemente enredados en la violencia simbólica, material, inferida y real. Las redes sociales tienen un potencial infinito de participación, difusión, inclusión, pero también de igual modo, en la red se fomentan conflictos sociales como es la xenofobia, porque las redes sociales están intensamente impregnadas de memos, videos, juegos, discusiones, comentarios y una serie de innovaciones, posibilidades de creatividad, de interconectividad con un potencial de movilización que lleva en muchos casos a la tergiversación de las ideas. Nos planteamos dos preguntas: ¿Cómo leemos la palabra y el mundo? como lo expresó Freire, y ¿Cómo la educación nos ayuda a comprender e interactuar con las redes sociales, que han suplantado en gran medida las noticias normativas y dominantes? Esta presentación busca unir estos temas para subrayar la relevancia y la necesidad de la alfabetización mediática crítica para cultivar la paz y la educación para la paz, que están indisolublemente conectados con la noción de democracia. ¿Qué es la alfabetización mediática?Un componente central del desarrollo de una democracia es la capacidad, la oportunidad y la manifestación de un diálogo comprometido críticamente, sin violencia entre las personas. En la era digital, nos encontramos con temas que pueden preocupar, como es la sofisticación de Internet, la “tiranía” de los algoritmos, los públicos desconocidos, la difusión de "noticias falsas", el control y la vigilancia, pero es la difusión, la interacción y el compromiso transfronterizos / lingüísticos / culturales otra parte del lado positivo de este tipo de interconexiones. La hegemonía y las relaciones de poder juegan un papel importante en este proyecto, y la educación para la paz debe cultivarse, entenderse y apoyarse dentro de ese filtro.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
The Influence of Social Media Usage on Citizen Participation and EngagementSocial media has altered the political, socio-cultural, economic and educational landscapes, impa... more Social media has altered the political, socio-cultural, economic and educational landscapes, impacting on the potential for social change. Our international research project, employing a Freirian theoretical framework, explores the impact of social media on citizen participation. We acknowledge the decreasing salience of normative democracy, based on elections, political parties and elite-based processes that marginalize and diminish critically-engaged citizen participation. Similarly, we are concerned about the neoliberal domination of education, and how this diminishes and obfuscates how youth envisage and engage in social change and social movements. Thus, the focus on social media allows us to tie together democracy, education and citizen participation in a critical and, hopefully, transformative way.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Democracy and the veins still open in Latin America: Us, them and education for democracy / La democracia y las venas todavía abiertas en América Latina: Nosotros, ellos y la educación para la democraciaSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Race, racisme, racialisation… Vaudrait-il la peine d’en discuter ?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Teaching Democracy, Living Global Citizenship: Are We Dreaming?In this Big Conversation, Paul R. Carr will discuss why issues such as racism, the environment an... more In this Big Conversation, Paul R. Carr will discuss why issues such as racism, the environment and social media are fundamental societal concerns, and how an education for democracy and global citizenship framework could give us a new perspective on how to understand and address these socio-political, economic and educational problems.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Participation citoyenne et démocratieConférence invitée à l'instar du
FORUM DES PARTENAIRES • RÉVISION DU PROGRAMME D’ÉTUDES ÉTHIQUE E... more Conférence invitée à l'instar duFORUM DES PARTENAIRES • RÉVISION DU PROGRAMME D’ÉTUDES ÉTHIQUE ET CULTURE RELIGIEUSE • Ministère de l’Éducation et de l’Enseignement supérieur (rencontre de consultation à Québec, Montréal et Trois-Rivières)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Un Dodécalogue : Potentiel Des Contextes Éducatifs InFormels et NonFormelsPour Une Éducation à l’ÉcoCitoyenneté Mondiale (EECM) Tout Au Long De La VieSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Educación Transformadora: Abriendo espacios para la democracia y la ciudadanía en las escuelasby Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Conjuguer dialogue contre-hégémonique et démocratie délibérative : quelles perspectives éducatives issues des médias sociaux ?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Transformative Education  and making room for democracy & citizenship  in schoolsSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Civil society as news broker in democracy 2.0: The quest for a new (more engaged) citizen participation / La société civile et la diffusion de nouvelles en démocratie 2.0: La quête d’une nouvelle participation citoyenne (plus engagée)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Developing a model for community engagement related to GC<-->GCEDSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
SOCIAL JUSTICE AND EDUCATION FOR DEMOCRACY: "BUT WHAT CAN I DO?” / LA JUSTICE SOCIALE ET L’ÉDUCATION POUR LA DÉMOCRATIE :  “MAIS QUE PUIS-JE FAIRE ?”PROGRAM DESCRIPTION: In this session, Dr. Carr asks how we can develop and cultivate democracy, a... more PROGRAM DESCRIPTION: In this session, Dr. Carr asks how we can develop and cultivate democracy, and investigates its connection to education, which should be tethered to social justice and political/media literacy.  He suggests that it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to have a functioning, relevant, engaged, and critical democracy without a functioning, relevant, engaged and critical education. In order to lay the groundwork, Dr. Carr will begin his presentation by elucidating some notions of democracy, some myths and debates. Dr. Carr will then present three digressions (racism, the environment and social media) that may appear to be disconnected and out-of-sync. The last section of the presentation focuses on education for democracy, and, significantly, what I/we can do or might think about doing. Some proposals based on the research Dr. Carr has been involved in related to education for democracy are also presented. Dr. Carr will discuss the complex enterprise that education encompasses, including the fundamental role played by the educator/teacher, with a view to facilitating and cultivating a “thicker” education for democracy.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Democracy and the veins still open in Latin America:  Us, them and education for democracy  / La democracia y las venas todavía abiertas en América Latina: Nosotros, ellos y la educación para la democraciaSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Democracy 2.0, Old and New Media, and the Quest for Engaged Participationby Paul R Carr and Gina Thésée1. A symposium with three presentations:
“And they call it democracy…”: “There is a crack in ever... more 1. A symposium with three presentations:“And they call it democracy…”: “There is a crack in everything, That's how the light gets in” (PAUL R. CARR) 2. Playing a critical epistemology card: Building a meta-model for media literacy (GINA THÉSÉE)3. Where to, Web 2.0 ??? (MICHAEL HOECHSMANN)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Las redes sociales y el involucramiento ciudadano:  ¿Qué espacio hay para la democracia?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Une approche éducative socio-épistémologique de résistance pour l’interculturel en environnement :Quand savoir et pouvoir rimeront-ils avec inclusion et justice sociale?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
LA DEMOCRACIA Y LA EDUCACIÓN PARA LA DEMOCRACIASave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
CALL FOR SUBMISSIONS Book chapters for a Book on Digital Media, Transformative Education and Democratic Praxis BOOK TITLE: Media Literacy 2.0: From techno-fetishism and moral panic to critical democratic classroom praxisby Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeDescription New digital communication technologies offer great promise as tools, platforms and sp... more Description New digital communication technologies offer great promise as tools, platforms and spaces for the cultivation of empowering, liberatory educational practices as well as for the development and circulation of diverse and counter-hegemonic perspectives. These same technologies have provoked a terrific amount of confusion and contestation in education settings. On the surface, the emergence and adoption of new communication technologies in education present unique and potentially transformative challenges and opportunities to educators that allow us to either carry on as usual or to creatively rethink educations practices and purposes. The challenges have ranged from scrambling to adapt technologies to classroom purposes, to providing pre-service and in-service professional development to teachers, and to deciding what is worth knowing and teaching and what can be left to chance. Early adopters put the focus on technical proficiency (ICT literacy) and prevention of harm (cyberbullying, in particular), which further mystified the new tools as belonging to a realm that required technical mastery and extreme caution. This, in turn, caused the tools to remain in the control of local experts and techno-pros, often those whose biography involved considerable hobbyist interest in communications technologies. As the work with new digital technologies has mainstreamed into the heart of diverse cultures of teaching and learning, it has been picked up piecemeal and still luck-of-the-draw: the notion being that good teaching and learning with the new tools still tends to rely on an inspired teacher, a thoughtful program launched locally or internationally, or a technology or platform that draws interest in a particular space and time. At the same time, production-oriented pedagogies in contemporary participatory media 2.0 offer emancipatory opportunities to provide individuals and communities the tools to speak with and back to power through alternative and social media forms. Democracy requires a functioning, critically-engaged and literate populace, one that can participate, cultivate and shape, in meaningful and critical ways, the discourses and forms of the society in which it exists. Education for democracy, therefore, requires not only political literacy but also media and digital literacies, given the immersive ubiquity of new communications technologies and their prolific consumption, interplay and use by students and citizens of all ages today. Thus, the focus of this book is to develop frameworks that locate the new digital literacies and technologies in relation to education and democracy, and, particularly, education for democracy. The theoretical core of this volume crosses the fences between Media Studies and Education, both of which cover interdisciplinary and epistemologically diverse spaces and traditions. Media Studies examines a range of issues, concerns, methods, and concepts related to the history, political economy, production, textual properties, reception, influence, and impact of old and new media. The role of education within the broad formal and informal senses is fundamental in relation to frameworks of media and digital literaciesSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
APPEL À CONTRIBUTIONSSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Call for Chapters (Book on Media, Democracy and Education)by Gina Thésée and Paul R CarrDescription With the emergence of social and (potentially) participatory media 2.0 in a period of... more Description With the emergence of social and (potentially) participatory media 2.0 in a period of continued and increasing corporate control of the institutions and instruments of media comes a need to re-evaluate existing paradigms for teaching and learning about the impact and potential of media for democratic processes. The mainstream, corporate-controlled media undoubtedly continue to exert a powerful influence upon the thinking, agenda and actions of students and educators today; what we know, how we know it, and how we understand our identities, power, agency, change and society is (still) shaped or influenced, to varying degrees, by the powerful hegemonic machinations of the mass media. These media are undergoing ruptured transitions of their own, in particular consolidating and downsizing the " fourth estate " of " objective " journalistic news-gathering. At the same time, production-oriented pedagogies in contemporary participatory media 2.0 offer emancipatory opportunities to provide individuals and communities the tools to speak back to power through alternative and social media forms. Democracy requires a functioning, engaged and literate populace, one that can participate and shape, in meaningful and critical ways, the discourses and forms of the society in which it exists. Education for democracy, therefore, requires not only political literacy but also media literacy, given the immersive ubiquity of media and their prolific consumption and use by students and citizens of all ages today. Thus, the focus of this book is to develop frameworks that locate the old and new media in relation to education and democracy, and, particularly, education for democracy. The theoretical core of this volume crosses the fences between Media Studies and Education, both of which cover interdisciplinary and epistemologically diverse spaces and traditions. Media Studies examines a range of issues, concerns, methods, and concepts related to the history, political economy, production, textual properties, reception, influence, and impact of old and new media. The role of Education is fundamental in relation to frameworks of media literacy that support both how we teach and learn about the media and how we produce and disseminate it. Moreover, with, in, through and in conjunction with Education, especially in relation to Education for democracy, formal Education can play an important role in preparing students as citizens and potentially activists to engage with media in a critical way. Thus, this book aims to bring together, in a critical manner, the media, education and democracy, and offers educators, students, researchers, scholars, and others in the media, the government, the non-governmental and other sectors an interwoven and dynamic collection of texts that present both a scholarly and practical resource that will fill the gap in the literature related to the salience of the media as a force for building a more vibrant, inclusive, participatory and counter-hegemonic democracy. Statement of Aims It is virtually impossible to imagine a society or world that is not always already represented through media forms. The popular imaginary is already inhabited by prepackaged soundbites of common sense wisdom derived from hegemonic sources and the mainstream corporate media has long skilfully demonstrated its ability to incorporate and sublimate yesterday's radical or alternative ideas into today's slogans and products. Nonetheless, we have witnessed over the last decade a profound transformation in how and who shapes the media. The emergence and consolidation of Web 2.0 has irrevocably transformed a number of media functions, particularly in relation to news reporting, advertising and music production, and it has opened spaces where anyone with a video camera, a computer and Internet access can become a global changemaker. Activist media in the era of participation have flourished, sometimes resulting in profound new alliances and social change thoughSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
CALL FOR PROPOSALS: BOOK SERIES: Counter-Hegemonic Democracy and Social ChangeThe word “democracy” is increasingly attached to an array of concepts, themes and political and s... more The word “democracy” is increasingly attached to an array of concepts, themes and political and social realities and visions, yet there are currently a number of groups, movements, interests and actors around the world who are contesting the normative, hegemonic meaning and manifestation of formal democracy. Many people do not see their interests served by electoral, representative democracy, that which concerns political parties, voting and tightly controlled electoral processes. Rather, there is visible concern in many quarters with not only the formal process of how elections are shaped and governments are formed but, also, with the political, economic, cultural, social and militaristic outcomes of such institutionalized configurations. There is widespread cynicism, decreasing voter participation, the general sentiment of disenfranchisement and marginalization, and increasing levels of resistance and mobilization in the form of alternatives to the formal “democratic” model, which could be characterized as “counter-hegemonic democracy”. Counter-hegemonic democracy concerns lived realities inside of as well as outside of the formal political vacuum, touching on how people seek to build a more resilient, deeper, thicker, more critically engaged and meaningful democracy. Some examples could by the mass anti-war, pro-environment, Occupy, World Social Forum and other social movements that have sought to remove some governments and make others more accountable, or to make the world bodies that frame international politics more aligned with the needs of the masses that do not control the levers of power. There are also many other movements that start and cultivate causes through social media, or which seek some form of change at the local level. While often omitted from the mainstream media, many people are not perturbed from seeking social and political change outside of the formal strictures and structures of power, often influencing them as well as carving out terrain for those not considered within the strictly defined and formalized elite decisionmaking circles. This book series connects with this notion of counter-hegemonic democracy, and seeks out debates, ideas, concerns, examples and proposals that extend and construct knowledge within an inter- and multi-disciplinary vantage-point, including sociology, political science, political economy, economics, education, cultural studies and other connected areas. The books in this series will speak to educators, researchers, scholars, and students interested in democracy, political sociology, multicultural education, social movements, decolonization, media studies and peace studies as well as other connected areas.Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Call for Proposals: New Book Series - Cultural Pluralism Democracy, Socio-environmental justice & EducationSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
BiographyBiography for website at www.paulrcarr.netSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Race, racisme, racialisation… Vaudrait-il la peine d’en discuter ?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Synthèse de concepts clés des 3 premiers coursSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
L'identité culturelleSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Le pluralisme culturel et l'identitéSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Le pluralisme culturelSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Présentation des intérêts de recherche et des exigences d’encadrement d’étudiants de cycles supérieursSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Communiquei de presse Chaire Unesco DCMET 27 mars 2017by Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeL'UQO accueille une première Chaire UNESCO : « Démocratie, citoyenneté mondiale et éducation tran... more L'UQO accueille une première Chaire UNESCO : « Démocratie, citoyenneté mondiale et éducation transformatoire (DCMÉT) » Gatineau – Le lundi 27 mars 2017 – Une grande première dans l'histoire de l'Université du Québec en Outaouais : l'UQO accueille une prestigieuse Chaire UNESCO qui se penchera sur les questions interreliées de démocratie, de citoyenneté mondiale et d'éducation transformatoire (DCMÉT). La Chaire UNESCO DCMÉT, la 20 e au Canada, a été octroyée à Paul R. Carr, sociologue de l'éducation et professeur au Département des sciences de l'éducation de l'UQO, dont les recherches portent entre autres sur la justice sociale, l'éducation pour la démocratie, les études de la paix et les relations interculturelles. Le professeur Carr dirigera la Chaire UNESCO DCMÉT de concert avec Gina Thésée, la co-titulaire de la Chaire qui est professeure au Département de didactique de la Faculté des sciences de l'éducation à l'Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM). La Chaire UNESCO de l'UQO a pour but le développement de réseaux oeuvrant pour la démocratie, la citoyenneté mondiale et l'éducation transformatoire. En lien avec ces thèmes interreliés, elle poursuit cinq objectifs : 1) Développer des partenariats internationaux, qui réunissent des pays du Sud et du Nord, au sein de projets de collaboration en recherche et en formation; 2) Animer un programme d'activités de dialogue social et de partage de savoirs réunissant divers acteurs sociaux (ateliers populaires, conférences et symposiums, écoles d'été); 3) Concevoir un programme de recherche transdisciplinaire ayant pour cadre des thèmes associés; 4) Offrir un programme court international de deuxième cycle; 5) Assurer la dissémination de savoirs et pratiques via de multiples modalités et plateformes de communications (publications, présentations, site web, capsules vidéos, médias sociaux, webinaires, etc.). Pour le recteur de l'UQO, monsieur Denis Harrisson, « l'obtention d'une Chaire UNESCO est une excellente nouvelle qui vient confirmer la qualité de la recherche qui se fait à l'UQO et la renommée de nos professeurs. La Chaire DCMÉT pourra certainement miser sur la très grande expertise du professeur Carr et celle de ses collaborateurs ainsi que sur les réseaux déjà en place pour contribuer de façon significative à l'enrichissement du savoir à l'échelle internationale ». La mise sur pied de cette chaire UNESCO contribuera au rayonnement de l'UQO à l'international.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
UNESCO Chair DCMÉT International Symposium on Dialogue and Emancipation (October 25-28, 2022)Announcing the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT International Symposium on
Dialogue and Emancipation October 25... more Announcing the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT International Symposium onDialogue and Emancipation October 25-28, 2022Open access online and in person in Valparaíso, Chile.Join the conversation in Spanish, French, and English to discuss, reflect and engage in dialogue with academics, activists and civil society members seeking positive change.Essential Information:● Free to attend, open to all● Website & Registration: unesco-dcmet.com● Location: Online via Zoom, Facebook Live and YouTube● Dates: October 25-28, 2022 | 4 days● Languages: Spanish, French, and English● Over 125 presenters from 25+ countries● 40 sessions that are collaborative, action-oriented and multi-/inter-/trans-disciplinary● Simultaneous interpretation for several sessions● Organized by UNESCO Chair DCMÉT, PUCV, UQO and UQAM with several partners,including UNESCO, CCUNESCO, SSRCH, FRQ, APCEIU, CIRCEM, Centr'ÉRE,AQOCI, and Coop L'Argot.The UNESCO Chair in Democracy, Global Citizenship and Transformative Education(DCMÉT) has announced a four-day, online symposium entitled Dialogue and Emancipation, exploring democracy, global citizenship and transformative education. The event welcomes researchers, educators, activists, artists and other members of civil society from around the world to take part. Dr. Paul R. Carr (UQO), Professor & Chair-holder, and, Dr. Gina Thésée (UQAM), Professor & Co-Chair-holder, in collaboration with colleagues at UPCV in Chile, have brought this event to life with the support of the organizing committee and event partners.In describing the goals of the event, Dr. Carr explained:“This Symposium attempts to bring people together from a range of backgrounds,disciplines, identities and perspectives, to cultivate dialogue and engagement on difficult and complex issues, with the desire to do so in a critical and transformative way. We hope to raise issues in some 40 sessions in English, French and Spanish that will allow for moments of reflection, conscientization and solidarity. Developing democracy, global citizenship and transformative education is central to our project. It is a humblingexperience to organize such an event online, with some wonderful live sessions in Chile,and there are many engaged colleagues and organizations associated with it. We arehonored to be able to do so with our colleagues at the Pontificia Universidad Católica deValparaíso. We welcome and look forward to engaging with everyone at theSymposium.”From the organizing team in Chile, Dr. Silvia Redón explains, "a relevant point to highlight is the dynamics of the free symposium, which is shaped by round-table discussion and panels that prioritize dialogue, collaboration and solidarity, aligning with the objectives of the UNESCO Chair in democracy, global citizenship and transformative education. Within this framework, the symposium, at the end of each day, will also host Happy Hour discussions to freely discuss what was addressed by the panelists during the day, with the aim of cultivating a solidarity network that supports diverse identities, territories and worldviews. We hope all of this will lead to a robust, critical, participatory, dialogic and deliberative democracy, far from the mercantile andinstrumental logic that sometimes underlies these academic spaces”.International attendees are encouraged to register through Zoom, via the website, sothey have access and can participate in the Q&A portion of each session. If preferable, they can also watch all sessions on Facebook Live during the event, or tune into YouTube to view the recorded sessions. Attendees who wish to take part in person in Valparaíso should also register through the website to receive event updates and instructions.A selection of sessions, including all four plenaries, will be presented with simultaneousinterpretation in Spanish, French and English on Zoom and Facebook Live. Plenary speakers include Paul R. Carr (October 25), Gina Thésée (October 26), Manuel Muñoz Millalonco (October 27), and Lilia Concha (October 28). There are several sessions related to Indigenous Peoples, the environment, global citizenship, democracy, media, transformative change, diaspora relations and social inequality, and other issues.Important LinksMore Information: unesco-dcmet.comAbout UNESCO Chair DCMÉT DCMÉT, in French, stands for Democracy, Global Citizenship and Transformative Education; the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT was founded in 2016. A UNESCO Chair involves a defined research program, engaged teaching and learning, civil society participation, networking with partners in the Global South, and a direct connection to UNESCO values, orientations and goals. The UNESCO Chair DCMÉT specifically connects to/with human rights, democracy, global citizenship, environmental and eco-citizenship education, peace, anti-racism, and transformative and emancipatory education within a critical, political, and ecological lens. Working with UNESCO and other UNESCO Chairs around the world is a unique feature of the work undertaken by a UNESCO ChairSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
APPEL À CONTRIBUTIONS Version 17 octobre 2016.docxLes enjeux de la démocratie, de l’alphabétisation politique et de l’éducation transformatoire son... more Les enjeux de la démocratie, de l’alphabétisation politique et de l’éducation transformatoire sont multiples, complexes et cruciaux pour les sociétés. Ils sont à la fois d’ordres éthique, politique, historique, social, environnemental, économique, géographique, culturel, éducatif et pédagogique. Ils se fondent sur des valeurs d’égalité en droits, de justice sociale, de diversité, d’inclusion, de solidarité, d’équité, de paix et de bien-vivre-ensemble. Pourtant, les sociétés contemporaines sont agitées de graves problématiques socio-environnementales qui découlent des dynamiques systémiques de discriminations, de logiques économiques prédatrices, de marginalisation, d’exclusion sociale, de racismes, de violences de toutes sortes et de vulnérabilités multiples. L’analphabétisme politique donne lieu à une « démocratie mince » réduite à sa seule dimension normative basée sur des modalités électorales. L’éducation non transformatoire est semblable à l’« éducation bancaire » que dénonce Paulo Freire, parce qu’elle contribue à maintenir, à renforcer et à reproduire les dynamiques systémiques oppressives. L’éducation « transformatoire », dont le moteur est interne aux collectivités et aux individus, suppose une conscience critique dans l’exercice d’une « démocratie ample » qui conduit à la transformation des réalités socio-environnementales oppressives et à l’émancipation des personnes. Or, les assauts continus sur l’éducation éloignent la possibilité de cette éducation transformatoire.Dans ces contextes, comment penser l’articulation de la démocratie, de l’alphabétisation politique et de l’éducation transformatoire? De plus, cette articulation peut-elle contribuer à l’émergence de citoyenneté(s) ancrées dans une diversité d’appartenances? Et, en ce sens, que sont les notions de citoyenneté, de citoyenneté mondiale ou même d’écocitoyenneté mondiale?  De plus, quels profils d’enseignants seraient en mesure de relever ces défis et quelle(s) formation(s) à l’enseignement seraient souhaitables?Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Rapport d'activités 2019-2020Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
UNESCO Chair DCMÉT Activity Report /Rapport d'activités Chaire UNESCO DCMÉT (2019-2020)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Social media and global citizenship, with or without (normative) democracyWorkshop presented in Mongolia (2019).Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Second Info-Letter / Deuxième Info-lettre / Segundo Boletín (UNESCO Chair DCMÉT)by Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeVery happy to introduce the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT's second Info-Lettre /
Très heureux de présenter l... more Very happy to introduce the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT's second Info-Lettre /Très heureux de présenter la deuxième Info-lettre de la Chaire UNESCO DCMÉT / Muy felices de compartir el segundo Boletín de la Cátedra UNESCO DCMÉTPaul R. Carr & Gina Thésée Info-Letter / Info-lettre / Boletín http://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/bcff79_907ba80610914c88ad8a909530e20796.pdf Contenu / ContentsLettre aux membres (1) Letter to members  (3) Colloque de l’ACFAS (5) Projet avec la communauté haïtienne  (7) Announcing a new book (8) Affiche : journées québécoises de la solidarité internationale (9) Photo : des étudiantEs et des assistantEs de recherche et des participantes à l’ACFAS (9) Engagement in social media and “fake news” . 10 Participation in UNESCO forums (10) Numéro thématique en langue française dans la revue de recherche sur l’éducation à la citoyenneté / Citizenship Education Research Journal (CERJ) (11) Global Citizenship Education workshops in South Korea  (12) Retrouvailles jumelages interculturels (13) Un membre du comité exécutif honoré (14) Keynote address at the annual conference of the Ontario Society for the Protection of Cruelty Against Animals (14) Some thoughts on the time spent in Norway (on sabbatical) (14) Some images from the time spent in Buenos Aires (on sabbatical)  (16) Membres des comités de la Chaire UNESCO DCMÉT  (17)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Menti survey with international students in NorwayITEPS program at University of South-Eastern Norway in DrammenSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Topics for Deliberative Democracy activity with educational leaders (Morgadel, Norway)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Survey results - NORWAY administrators (Morgadel) (April 30, 2019)Results from MENTI survey questions.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
RESEARCH REPORT - DEMOCRACY, POLITICAL LITERACY AND TRANSFORMATIVE EDUCATION (DPLTE) / RAPPORT DE RECHERHCE - DÉMOCRACIE, ALPHABÉTISATION POLITIQUE ET ÉDUCATION TRANSFORMATOIRE (DAPÉT)by Paul R Carr and Gina Thésée
The primary aim of the project was to better understand how democracy—and, ultimately, education... more The primary aim of the project was to better understand how democracy—and, ultimately, education for democracy (EfD)—is conceptualized, cultivated, implemented, and experienced in and through education. With research sites in three countries—Canada, USA and Australia—the study engaged with numerous research collaborators and over 1,000 research participants. The Global Doing Democracy Research Project (GDDRP), founded by the Principal Investigator and one of the Collaborators in 2008, laid the groundwork for the DPLTE project, and continued at a parallel level throughout its existence, connecting with researchers and projects in some fifteen countries, and involving more than 4,000 additional participants. With the culmination of the DPTLE research schedule, the overarching aims and themes of the project led to and endure through the UNESCO Chair in Democracy, Global Citizenship and Transformative Education (DCMÉT). The linkage between democratic experience and the interest in engaging with thick(er), social justice-based education is developed throughout the research, and underscores the potential for critical engagement and participation in and through education. The research also provides a range of analyses that serve to elucidate the need for broad-based thinking and conceptualization that encompasses institutional, cultural and praxis-based considerations of education, with explicit/implicit, formal/informal and nuanced interpretations of how power relations are inter-woven into the educational project. Over the course of the research project, our findings were further examined, teased out and triangulated through deeper, critical, comparative analyses involving data from divergent contexts and in different languages, and problematizing diverse relationships between political, social and institutional actors concerning how democracy plays out in the classroom and schools as well as within communities that are inextricably linked to the educational project. The results, analyses and conclusions of the research have implications for critical conceptualizations, and engagement with, the curriculum, pedagogy, educational policy, institutional culture, epistemology, leadership, and lived experiences within the education realm in relation to democracy.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Workshop Sessions - Global Citizenship Education (Seoul 2018)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
INFO-LETTER (August 2018, #1) - UNESCO Chair DCMÉTSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Presenting the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT (November 2017)Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Research models laying the foundation for the UNESCO  Chair Democracy, Global Citizenship and Transformative Education (DCMÉT)by Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeThe conceptual and theoretical models presented in this document were developed over a roughly tw... more The conceptual and theoretical models presented in this document were developed over a roughly twelve-year period, starting in 2005, by the Chair (Paul R. Carr, Université du Québec en Outaouais) and Co-Chair (Gina Thésée, Université du Québec à Montréal) of the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT. These models have been published in diverse academic journals in either English or French, and have been translated and adapted herein to produce an updated and bilingual representation of the Education for Democracy research that Carr and Thésée have produced. In some cases, the models have been refined (and improved) over time, and they are presented as a means of attempting to elucidate, interrogate and highlight the meaning of the three themes that underpin the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
COLLOQUE À L'ACFAS : Démocratie, Citoyenneté mondiale et Éducation transformatoire : contextes, enjeux et défis contemporains (Colloque 529)by Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Introduction: UNESCO CHAIR IN DEMOCRACY, GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP AND TRANSFORMATIVE EDUCATION (DCMÉT)by Paul R Carr and Gina ThéséeThis very first UNESCO Chair at the Université du Québec en Outaouais (UQO) aims to be a dynamic ... more This very first UNESCO Chair at the Université du Québec en Outaouais (UQO) aims to be a dynamic hub of activities, research and interaction. It will promote dialogue among a variety of social actors from the formal, non-formal and informal educational and civil society contexts in relation to the socio-educational challenges facing contemporary societies. By doing so, it seeks to contribute to the collective efforts to build, through educational engagement, societies of peace, social justice, openness, inclusion and sustainable development. The Chair also aims to consolidate networks of local, national and international actors working for democracy, global citizenship and transformative education. To this end, it will create partnerships and collaborative projects involved in research, training, civil society engagement and knowledge dissemination. By working in French, English and Spanish, the UNESCO Chair DCMÉT strives to transcend hegemonic, uni-disciplinary and fixed conceptualizations, opening itself up to a great diversity of partners while striving to facilitate their inclusion and active participation.Save to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Salutations de Mme. Julie Miville-Dechêne, représentante du Gouvernement du Québec au sein de la Délégation permanente du Canada auprès de l’UNESCOby Gina Thésée and Paul R CarrSalutations de Mme. Julie Miville-Dechêne, représentante du Gouvernement du Québec au sein de la ... more Salutations de Mme. Julie Miville-Dechêne, représentante du Gouvernement du Québec au sein de la Délégation permanente du Canada auprès de l’UNESCO, en lien avec le lancement de la Chaire UNESCO DCMÉT (27 mars 2017)Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Ambassadeure et Délégué permanente du Canada auprès de l’UNESCO, Mme. Élaine Ayotteby Gina Thésée and Paul R CarrSalutations de l'Ambassadeure et Délégué permanente du Canada auprès de l’UNESCO, Mme. Élaine Ayo... more Salutations de l'Ambassadeure et Délégué permanente du Canada auprès de l’UNESCO, Mme. Élaine Ayotte, en lien avec le lancement de la Chaire UNESCO DCMÉT (27 mars 2017)Save to LibraryEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Articles dans les médias au sujet de la Chair UNESCO DCMÉT.docxSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
Communique de presse - Chaire Unesco DCMÉT 27 mars 2017.docxSave to LibraryDownloadEditCompare Citation Rank Readers Related Papers MentionsView Impact
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023