A tale of two cities of culture: Liverpool vs Stavanger | The Independent
84 captures
13 May 2011 - 25 Mar 2023
Dec
JUN
Sep
18
2017
2018
2020
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Internet Archive
  These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to.   That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.  
Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.
The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. 
Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites.
Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC)
  This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to.
This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20180618175425/https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/this-britain/a-tale-of-two-cities-of-culture-liverpool-vs-stavanger-770076.html?r=RSS
independent_brand_ident_LOGO
Untitled
Created with Sketch.
    
      News
    
  
    
      UK
    
  
    
      World
    
  
    
      Europe
    
  
    
      Business
    
  
    
      Voices
    
  
    
      Comment
    
  
    
      Robert Fisk
    
  
    
      Mark Steel
    
  
    
      Grace Dent
    
  
    
      Holly Baxter
    
  
    
      Campaigns
    
  
    
      Editorials
    
  
    
      Letters
    
  
    
      Drop The Target campaign
    
  
    
      Sports
    
  
    
      US sports
    
  
    
      Soccer
    
  
    
      Tennis
    
  
    
      Boxing
    
  
    
      Formula 1
    
  
    
      WWE
    
  
    
      Culture
    
  
    
      Film
    
  
    
      TV
    
  
    
      Music
    
  
    
      Books
    
  
Indy/Life
    
  
    
      Fashion
    
  
    
      Tech
    
  
    
      Food + drink
    
  
    
      Travel
    
  
    
      Health + families
    
  
    
      Love + sex
    
  
    
      Video
    
  
    
      Daily Edition
    
  
    
      Subscribe for a free trial
    
  
    
      Read Now
    
  
Please wait....
UK Edition
US Edition
My account
Log out
Benefits
Log in
Register
Benefits
Please wait....
      
          News
      
    
      
          Election 2016
      
    
      
          World
      
    
      
          US
      
    
      
          UK
      
    
      
          Europe
      
    
      
          People
      
    
      
          Science
      
    
      
          Health
      
    
      
          Business
      
    
      
          Voices
      
    
      
          Comment
      
    
      
          Robert Fisk
      
    
      
          Mark Steel
      
    
      
          Grace Dent
      
    
      
          Holly Baxter
      
    
      
          Campaigns
      
    
      
          Editorials
      
    
      
          Letters
      
    
      
          Sports
      
    
      
          Formula 1
      
    
      
          US sports
      
    
      
          Soccer
      
    
      
          Cricket
      
    
      
          Tennis
      
    
      
          Boxing
      
    
      
          Formula 1
      
    
      
          Culture
      
    
      
          Books
      
    
      
          Film
      
    
      
          TV
      
    
      
          Music
      
    
      
          Art
      
    
      
          Theatre & Dance
      
    
      
          Comedy
      
    
      
          Indy/life
      
    
      
          Food & drink
      
    
      
          Health & families
      
    
      
          Love & sex
      
    
      
          Motoring
      
    
      
          Student
      
    
      
          Travel
      
    
      
          Fashion
      
    
      
          Tech
      
    
      
          Gaming
      
    
      
          Tech culture
      
    
      
          Tech news
      
    
      
          Video
      
    
      
          Explainer videos
      
    
      
          News videos
      
    
      
          People & culture videos
      
    
      
          Sport videos
      
    
      
          IndyBest
      
    
      
          Fashion & Beauty
      
    
      
          Homes & Design
      
    
      
          Food & Drink
      
    
      
          Gadgets & Tech
      
    
      
          Outdoor & Activity
      
    
      
          Arts & Books
      
    
      
          Travel
      
    
      
          Money
      
    
      
          Health insurance
      
    
      
          Investments
      
    
      
          Extras
      
    
      
          The Independent Books
      
    
      
          Puzzles
      
    
      
          indy100
      
    
      
          Apps
      
    
      
          Ebooks
      
    
      
          iJobs
      
    
      
          Dating
      
    
Follow us:
News
›
UK
›
This Britain
A tale of two cities of culture: Liverpool vs Stavanger
Merseyside isn't the only place to have launched its year as European Capital of Culture. So how does it compare with its tiny Norwegian competitor? Mark Hughes reports
Monday 14 January 2008 01:00
Click to followThe Independent Online
    
    
    Jim Dyson/Getty Images
    
    
    
Liverpool
* Population: 446,000
* Unemployment: 5 per cent
* Average personal Income :£16,234
* Life expectancy: Men 74, women 78
* Year of Culture budget £110m
* Orchestras: Royal Liverpool Philharmonic
* Art Galleries: Walker Art Gallery, Tate Liverpool
* Major artists: George Stubbs, painter of Whistlejacket
Liverpool's Capital of Culture year burst into life on Friday night with a street party that lasted just 40 minutes. But, if the celebrations were short, the strides required in getting to this point have been anything but.
It started four-and-a-half years ago, cost nearly £100m and, along the way, has seen in-fighting and feuding of epic proportions. In fact, Friday night's celebrations could have been held to cheer the fact that Capital of Culture year is even happening at all.
Highlights in a programme of 350 events planned for the next 12 months include the Tall Ships race, the Open golf championship and the National Ballet of China all arriving on Merseyside.
And, most mouth-watering of all for the tens of thousands of Scousers who will pack the city's Anfield stadium on 1 June to see him, is the return of Beatles' icon Sir Paul McCartney, who will top the bill at a rock concert.
But, events behind the scenes have, perhaps annoyingly for the organisers who have invested so much time into the project, garnered even more publicity than those out front.
The first debate came over the independence of the Liverpool Culture Company (LCC), which was formed by the city council. But with around 65 per cent of its funding and most of its staff coming from the local authority, independence was always unlikely.
A bitter feud between the then leader of the council, Mike Storey, and the council's chief executive, Sir David Henshaw, ensued and resulted in both men resigning.
Then there was the appointment of the Australian cabaret singer Robyn Archer as creative director of the LCC. Although appointed in 2004, she only came to work full-time in Liverpool in April 2006 after troubles obtaining a work visa and was given a £125,000 four months later after her direction was not deemed artistic enough.
The next embarrassment came last year when the popular Mathew Street festival was cancelled at the last minute because of health and safety fears.
Confidence in the LCC wasn't exactly restored when, after seven weeks on sick leave, the company's chief executive Jason Harborrow quit just days before the opening ceremony. Negotiations for a £250,000 pay off continue.
On the back of his departure, it has transpired that the aforementioned Mr Storey and Warren Bradley, the current council leader, are to be investigated by the local government watchdog, the Standards Board for England for conspiring to get rid of Mr Harborrow. Add to this the fact that the design for the Museum of Liverpool Life – the intended iconic building for 2008 – had to be scrapped after it was realised it would cost £100m more than expected, and that there are reports the council are facing a £20m budget shortfall, it could be forgiven if the LCC's aim was simply to get through the Capital of Culture year without any more scandal.
However that is not the case. The defined aims for Liverpool Capital of Culture 2008 are more ambitious. In the same way that it could be asked why Stavanger, an already wealthy city, needs the potential cash fillip that being Capital of Culture will bring, it can also be asked why Liverpool, a needs the title?
After all, the city is famed for its numerous pop acts – it has provided more UK chart number one hits (54) per head of population than any other metropolis on the planet and is famed for era-defining acts such as The Beatles. The fact is Liverpool needs the Capital of Culture title more for the regeneration of the city than as an excuse to bring even more events to the city.
The Capital of Culture year will, hopefully, attract two million visitors to the city and bring in a cash boost to the city of more than £2bn in investment and provide an extra 14,000 jobs. The cash spin-offs for the surrounding north-west region could total £100m.
The figures will make pleasant reading to residents of a city which is blighted by high levels of unemployment and personal debt levels which are well above the national average.
Stavanger
* Population: 117,000
* Unemployment: 1.1 per cent
* Life expectancy: Men 77, women 82
* Year of Culture budget: £28.5m
* Orchestras: Stavanger Symfoniorkester
* Art Galleries: Rogaland Kunstmuseum, Rogaland Kunstsenter
* Major artists: Jan Groth, New York-based modern artist
While Liverpool cheered at the sight of Ringo Starr shouting his love for the city, the celebrations nearly 600 miles away in Stavanger had a distinctly more regal feel to them.
The "other" Capital of Culture held its opening ceremony on Saturday night, a day later than its British counterpart, and, somewhat surprisingly, drew a bigger crowd: an estimated 50,000 people crammed into Stavanger's city centre, among them the King and Queen of Norway.
They kicked off their year of culture with a huge parade through the streets of the city and were entertained by performances from artists at various venues in the city centre before the obligatory firework display brought proceedings to a close.
However, it's fair to say that Stavanger 2008 had not been as hotly anticipated as the Merseyside version. Some local artists, musicians and performers have refused to give their backing to the event. And the organisation "Ka da ittepa?" ("What then after?") believes the year may have no lasting effect. Other critics have said that, with a budget of 300m kroner (nearly £30m), the culture year is a waste of money. The crowds on Saturday may have shown that the dissenting voices are in the minority, but why did the city bid for the title?
Unlike Liverpool, it is not using the year of culture as a chance to regenerate the city. Nor is it bracing itself for an influx of visitors as a result of its new-found status. The city does not need the money being Capital of Culture could provide. It is already very wealthy. The average annual wage is more than £30,000 and its unemployment rate is just 1 per cent. The only official reason is, rather romantically, simply that the city wants to promote culture and raise the city's profile.
The theme of Stavanger's year is Open Port – a series of events that will encourage major artists to visit the city and work with local artists, and to encourage local people to make their own art. At the heart of the theme are four month-long residencies from various international groups – music theatre company Muziektheater Transparant, Lithuanian group Oskaras Korsunovas Theatre, Israeli dance company Inbal Pinto and the South African Handspring Puppet Company.
The head of Stavanger's Culture organisation is a Scottish journalist and former violinist, Mary Miller. She said of the bid: "When I first arrived, I thought, why does this place need to be European Capital of Culture? It's an extraordinarily precious place, almost like a little utopia. It is a massive investment in people. You look at this pristine country, in many senses the chief enemy here is that it is as good as it is."
Liverpool and Stavanger do have some things in common. For a start, the people are proud of their distinctive identities. Where Liverpool has Scousers, Stavanger has Siddis – the word used to describe someone born there, who speaks the dialect, and whose parents were from Stavanger. And both cities owe much of their economy to their respective ports.
But the architecture of the cities is rather different. A typical Liverpool street scene is a row of two-up, two-down Georgian terrace houses, while most city centre buildings have their roots in Edwardian architecture.
Stavanger, on the other hand, boasts of being the wooden-house capital of Norway. The reason: simply that there is a lot of it about. Indeed much of the city's history can be told in stories of natural resources, from its economic foundations in timber and paper mills, to its Viking empire built on wooden ships.
The cities also have different cultural backgrounds. Liverpool has its roots firmly in pop music icons such as The Beatles; Stavanger's main cultural export is its symphony orchestra. And this year it will capitalise on the year of culture by hosting the European Amateur Brass Band championships, a big event in a country where such bands are an institution.
They've kept rather quiet about their year of culture in Norway, but now they are ready to make a bit of noise.
What became of previous European Capitals of Culture?
* Athens 1985
The hope: The first European City of Culture, Athens was used as a blueprint for others. The dream: was to foster deeper knowledge of the differences and similarities of cultures among the EU.
The reality: Hundreds of events were held throughout Greece showing the best of the country's dance, music, theatre and film.
The legacy: Transport and amenities improved greatly. It is now the sixth most-visited capital in the world and hosted the Olympics.
* Glasgow 1990
The hope: As the first British city to be named European City of Culture, its aims were simple; it wanted to lose the "mean city" tag.
The reality: The city's theatres, museums and art galleries saw a 40 per cent increase in visitors during the year.
The legacy: When the city made the bid in 1983 it attracted tens of thousands of tourists a year. That figure is now 4 million. However, a report suggests that Glasgow's image changed only superficially.
* Dublin 1991
The hope: Aimed to provide a spring to its economy by moving away from its turbulent past. Sought to move into a new era of tourism, redevelopment and investment.
The reality: Dublin's year didn't get off to a good start with many critics fearing it could become an underfinanced flop.
The legacy: The city is one of the biggest tourist destinations in the world. In 2003, it was named in a BBC survey as the best capital city to live in Europe.
* Cork 2005
The hope: To provide a tourism boost, raise the profile of a city and bring social, cultural and economic benefits to the area.
The reality: The city saw a 25 per cent rise in tourism in the first three months and the title was the catalyst for bringing in investment, and for the expansion of the city's airport.
The legacy: The rebirth continues, according to Fiona Buckley, of Failte Ireland South West. "It raised the profile of Cork and that effect is still resounding today."
* Weimar 1999
The hope: An unlikely cultural Mecca, Weimar wanted to show its cultural beauty to a wider audience. It also wanted to use the year to perform something of an image change – the city is tagged with the legacy of a Second World War concentration camp.
The reality: The year was used to confront its past and celebrate the reunification of Germany.
The legacy: Aside from a brief boost in tourism the city has all but remained in obscurity.
* Lille 2004
The hope: To give identity to a town that became a transport hub when the Eurostar arrived in the 1990s.
The reality: A year-long programme of events which covered theatre, art and design, music, dance, cinema and literature.
The legacy: Lille has stepped out of the shadow of Paris and is now seen as a legitimate place to visit in its own right. The company that was in charge of the culture year is still going and is now planning "the city of tomorrow".
More about:
|
Liverpool FC
|
Premier League
|
Tourism
|
Unemployment
Reuse content
Independent News Email
Enter your email address
Please enter an email address
Email address is invalid
Fill out this field
Email address is invalid
Email cannot be used. Try another
or register with your social account
I would like to receive morning headlines Monday - Friday plus breaking news alerts by email
Continue
Already have an account? Log in
Comments
Log in or
            register to comment
          
 (Logout)
Post
Please be respectful when making a comment and adhere to our Community Guidelines.
Community Guidelines
You may not agree with our views, or other users’, but please respond to them respectfully
Swearing, personal abuse, racism, sexism, homophobia and other discriminatory or inciteful language is not acceptable
Do not impersonate other users or reveal private information about third parties
We reserve the right to delete inappropriate posts and ban offending users without notification
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Refresh•
Subscribe•
RSS
Notifications
Enter your email to subscribe to new comments on this article.
Subscribe
Vote
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Yes, submit this vote
Cancel
Report Comment
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Yes, flag this comment
Cancel
Delete Comment
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Yes, delete this comment
Cancel
Reply
Post
Cancel
Most Popular
Sponsored Features
Popular Videos
Follow us:
User Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Code of Conduct and Complaints
Contact Us
Contributors
All Topics
Archive
Newsletters
Jobs
Subscriptions
Advertising Guide
Syndication
Evening Standard
Novaya Gazeta
Install our Apps
Voucher Codes
I accept
The Independent and its partners use cookies and similar technology to collect and analyse information about the users of this website.  We use this information to enhance the content, advertising and other services available on the site.  Please click ‘I accept’ to consent to the use of this technology by The Independent and its partners.  You can manage your preferences at any time by visiting our Cookies Notice.