Infrastructure
218 captures
18 Nov 2004 - 05 Apr 2023
Feb
MAY
Jul
04
2009
2011
2012
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20110504165602/http://www1.american.edu:80/initeb/ym6974a/telecom.htm
 
 
     
Home
About Malaysia
Size of Domestic IT Market
National ICT Policies
Information Policy
Computing & Internet Diffusion
Domestic IT Production
E-Commerce and E-Business
E-Government
IT Workforce
IT Geographics
IT Financing
Telecom Infrastructure
Telecom Regulation & Liberalization
Analysis
Links
INITEB Home Page
 
     
 
Quick Links
Malaysian Telecom Overview
Infrastructure
Key Players
Demand and Supply
Forecast
History
 
Malaysian Telecom Overview
Malaysia's telecommunications network is more advanced 
    than any other in South-east Asia with the exception of Singapore. In 2000, 
    the number of telephone lines per 1,000 population in Malaysia stood at 210, 
    more than twice of Thailand, and six to eight times that of the Philippines 
    and Indonesia. Use of cellular phones is growing rapidly in Asian countries. 
    In 2000, Malaysia had 4.7 million fixed-line subscribers, and 5.5 million 
    cellular subscribers. Although telecommunications services are excellent and 
    readily available in urban centers, they are fair to poor in many rural 
    locations[1].
    
Back to Top
Infrastructure
The Malaysian Government has invested heavily in 
    world-class infrastructure. Malaysia's Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC) is 
    designed to create an ideal environment for ICT-related production as well 
    as provide the backbone for an information superhighway. The network 
    contains a high-speed link (10Gb/s network) that connects the MSC to Japan, 
    ASEAN, the US and Europe, and is capable of supporting extensive public 
    administration, education and business applications. The intent of the 
    superhighway is to provide quality access to global information as quickly 
    and easily as possible. Simultaneously, the Demonstrator Application Grand 
    Scheme (DAGS) is intended to facilitate social and economic progress through 
    the innovative use of ICT. It provides funds for citizens to access the 
    opportunities associated with the MSC and to be involved in multimedia 
    development.
The 
    telephone penetration rate—as a measurement of the ICT readiness of the 
    country—rose from 16.6 percent to 23.2 percent between 1995 and 1999, while 
    fixed lines in the rural areas rose from 5.2 percent in 1994 to 11 percent 
    in 1999. Malaysia is aiming to continue the establishment of basic 
    telecommunications infrastructure, with plans for 250 Internet access 
    points, 250 mobile phones and 500 fixed lines for every 1,000 people within 
    the next 5 years. This is in addition to the development of other primary 
    physical infrastructure, such as power supply, transportation, airports, 
    office buildings and extended business areas[1a].
    
Back to Top
 
Key 
    players
    Telekom Malaysia—a monopoly—is largely state-owned. It provides fixed-line 
    and cellular services. The monopoly was ended in 1994 by the licensing of 
    several competitors. Despite competition, Telekom Malaysia remains the 
    dominant provider of fixed-line services with over 95% share of the market. 
    New firms such as Maxis, Celcom, Digi and Time, have tended to concentrate 
    on mobile telephony, raising the number of subscribers from 872,000 in 1995 
    to 5.5 million in 2000. The ensuing competition has brought lower tariffs 
    and improved service quality[2].
    
The country's five mobile network operators--Celcom, 
    Digi.com, Maxis Communications, Telekom Malaysia and Time.com—all offer 2.5G 
    services, although demand for enhanced features is constrained by a lack of 
    compatible handsets[3].
    
Nevertheless, Amar Leo Moggie, the minister of energy, 
    communications and multimedia, has reiterated the government's plan to 
    develop 3G technology in 2002. Plans for auctioning 3G bandwidth are have 
    been carried out in 2002. But industry experts predict that only two or 
    three of the five mobile operators will be permitted to develop the 
    expensive infrastructure required. 
Market share of Malaysia's mobile operators, year 
    ending 2001 is Maxis with 28 percent; Celcom with 26 percent; Telekom 
    Malaysia with 18 percent; DiGi with 16 percent and Time at 12 percent.[4]
According to the Multimedia Convergence Act of 1998, 
    all five local telecoms companies, and the Malaysian Institute of 
    Microelectronic Systems (MIMOS), are licensed ISPs. Five of the six ISPs 
    have substantial investments from foreign telecom companies. TMnet is 
    Malaysia's largest ISP, boasting more than 850,000 users and a 70% market 
    share at end-2000. All four ISPs are plagued by problems such as slow 
    service and difficulty logging on during peak times[5].
    
Back to Top
 
    Demand and Supply
    Malaysia has a relatively elaborate telecom infrastructure. Fixed-line 
    telephones are sparse in comparison to the population that use cellular 
    phones. 
 
Pyramid Research projects that mobile usage will race 
    ahead to 32.2 subscribers per 100 in 2001, while fixed lines will increase 
    to only 24.4 per 100. Government statisticians broadly concur about the 
    explosion of cellular phone use, estimating that 22 percent of the 
    population had mobile phones by mid-2001, and that 30 percent of Malaysians 
    will carry them by 2003[6].
    
 
The number of Internet users increased from 13,000 in 
    1995 to about 3.8m in December 2000. There were five Internet service 
    providers in Malaysia in 2001. The government actively promotes electronic 
    services but keeps a wary eye on the Internet, fearing uncensored criticism[7].
    
Cyber-cafes are common in Malaysia. They are so 
    popular, in fact - particularly with the nation's youth - that the 
    government decided in June 2001 to mandate a closing time of 1 am.
Forecast
As with market trends in most economies, demand for 
    telecommunications services in Malaysia is expected to continue to expand 
    rapidly over the next five years. Malaysia has a well-developed telecom 
    infrastructure. The number of mobile-phone subscribers overtook fixed-line 
    subscribers in 2001. Despite slower growth in the mobile industry during the 
    next five years, opportunities for development in the regions remain.
Because of slow growth in the mobile segment, suppliers 
    are likely to put their efforts into promoting new services, rather than 
    attracting new subscribers. The move to Internet-enabled video phones 
    technology will be costly. In July 2003 the government announced that 
    Telekom Malaysia, together with Maxis Communications, would spend M$7.5 
    billion (US$2.2bn) over the next ten years on rolling out the 3G system. 
    Maxis stated that it expects conventional short message service (SMS) 
    operations to continue to provide the bulk of its revenue until 2006. 
    Telekom Malaysia’s objective is to provide 3G coverage for 80 percent of the 
    population by 2010. For the short term, the results for mobile networks are 
    likely to be bolstered by marketing or tie-ins with firms in other sectors, 
    such as banks. Malaysia will remain a Global System for Mobile 
    Communications (GSM) market. Telekom Malaysia will continue to use a code 
    division multiple access (CDMA) network to reach some rural areas in Sabah 
    and Sarawak.
No mobile equipment manufacturer is likely to achieve a 
    dominant position in the next few years. In the past, Telekom Malaysia has 
    bought equipment from a range of suppliers, although its new mobile partner, 
    Time favors Nokia. Maxis has a long-standing relationship with Motorola, but 
    its new partner, Celcom (now part of Telekom Malaysia) has a past history 
    with Ericsson, a mobile systems supplier based in Sweden.
During the next five years, substantial changes in 
    Malaysia’s computer parts industry are certain to occur. According to the 
    Department of Statistics, electrical and electronic products accounted for 
    over 50 percent of total exports in the first half of 2004, resulting in 
    M$114 billion. In 2004-2008 investors will continue to look for lower-cost 
    locations. 
The challenge for Malaysia, and for the island of 
    Penang in particular, will be how to best offer firms incentives to stay. 
    Although more firms will probably be attracted to the Multimedia 
    Supercorridor that runs out from the capital, Kuala Lumpur, it is unlikely 
    to become a major regional center for electronics production.
Back to Top
 
 
History
The telecommunications sector is in a state of 
    considerable ferment, as the new operators which have emerged since the 
    introduction of partial liberalisation in mid-1994 compete with each other, 
    and with more established players, for market share. While the supply of 
    fixed lines grew by 18% to 3.93 million in 1996, Telekom Malaysia, the 
    former monopoly provider in which the finance ministry retains a controlling 
    stake, maintained its overwhelmingly dominant position, losing only 1.5% of 
    its market to the five new companies which came on the scene at the start of 
    the year. The essential reason for its continued dominance was the 
    government's decision to defer equal access (whereby Telekom's subscribers 
    would be entitled to use its competitor's trunk and international networks) 
    from July 1996 until January 1999. Telekom's after-tax profits rose by 20.3% 
    to M$1.9bn in the year to end-December, and capital expenditure was 
    projected at M$3bn in 1997 up from M$2.3bn last year. 
-- as rivalry for cellular subscribers heats up -- 
 
Competition has been far keener in the more liberalised 
    mobile phone market, which expanded by 49% to reach some 1.5 million 
    subscribers last year. Tajudin Ramli's Technology Resources Industries 
    (TRI), which in 1989 acquired Telekom's cellular operations for just M$4m 
    along with a guaranteed three-year monopoly, recorded an estimated 25% rise, 
    to some 840,000, in subscribers. However, a halving of new subscriptions 
    secured by its mobile phone arm, Cellular Communications, to an average of 
    10,000 per month in July-December, underlined the ferocity of the 
    competition, in the form of massive price discounts, from the six more 
    recent newcomers to this market. The fastest-growing of these, Binariang, 
    claimed in February that it had 170,000 subscribers and was attracting new 
    ones at a rate of more than 1,300 per day. 
-- and the government sticks to its guns on foreign 
    ownership 
While some of the new entrants are expected to fall by 
    the wayside, independent analysts forecast that the cellular market will 
    grow by at least 30% in 1997 and 20% in 1998. Its buoyancy derives in part 
    from the recent acquisition by overseas interests of sizeable stakes in the 
    most promising players. US West has a 20% share of Binariang, Deutsche 
    Telekom 21% of TRI and Swiss Telecom 30% of Mutiara, another newcomer. While 
    Malaysia is one of 69 countries which has promised to endorse a WTO 
    agreement liberalising basic telecommunications services that is due to come 
    into force in January 1998, the government signalled that provisions 
    requiring that foreign companies be allowed full ownership of independent 
    networks would not be implemented. The present 30% ceiling on foreign 
    shareholdings in locally incorporated telecommunications companies would be 
    maintained, it said. 
[8]
 
In late February the government decided to raise the 
    permitted ceiling on foreign ownership of telecommunications companies from 
    30% to 49%, raising it again, to 61%, in late April. The government claims 
    that the moves are in line with its obligations under World Trade 
    Organisation agreements, and also reflect the government's desire to see the 
    quality of services improve ahead of the January 1st 1999 deadline for the 
    introduction of equal access to fixed-line networks (see below) and the need 
    of many of the companies concerned for fresh injections of capital. The 
    financial crisis has slowed the sector's growth and disrupted expansion 
    plans, particularly of private operators. The weak stockmarket has forced 
    some to postpone plans to raise funds through share offerings, while rising 
    interest rates and bankers' reluctance to lend have constrained their 
    ability to borrow. 
-- amid keen interest on the part of foreign operators
    
Foreign companies may be slow to respond to the 
    initiative. In announcing the raising of the equity ceiling to 61%, the 
    minister of energy, telecommunications and posts, Leo Moggie, added that 
    foreign companies must sell down their stake to 49% again within five years. 
    Interested parties appear to be holding out for more attractively priced 
    equity stakes and awaiting a further shake-out of the industry. With five 
    major telecommunications companies, the number of operators in Malaysia 
    (particularly of cellular services) is widely regarded as too high.
    
[9]
Pressure on the government to find a strategic foreign 
    partner for Telekom Malaysia, the dominant fixed-line provider that wants to 
    significantly increase its share of the fast-growing cellular market, has 
    intensified. Telekom's share price took a battering following the mid-July 
    disclosure that talks on a tie-up with Nippon Telegraph and Telephone had 
    broken down, apparently over the issue of management control. A 
    communications ministry announcement the same month, establishing licensing 
    procedures for companies offering Voice Over Internet Protocol services, 
    presages a possibly significant erosion of its main earnings base. Telekom 
    suffered a 46% year-on-year drop in net profit in January- June, according 
    to figures released in late August. Its cellular division posted yet another 
    loss, even though the number of subscribers more than doubled to 461,000 
    during the six-month period. Local press reports in mid-November claimed 
    that Telekom had three foreign suitors -- France Telecom, Spain's Telefonica 
    and Hong Kong's Hutchinson Whampoa -- all of them particularly keen on the 
    potential for rapid expansion of its cellular operations.[10]
Back to Top
 
[1] 
        Executive Briefing. The Economist Intelligence Unit. 20 Apr 2002.
[1a] 
        Accenture
        http://www.opt-init.org/framework/pages/appendix3Case5.html
[2] 
        Executive Briefing. The Economist Intelligence Unit. 20 Apr 2002.
[3] 
        Executive Briefing. The Economist Intelligence Unit. 20 Apr 2002.
[4] 
        Pyramid Research
[5] 
        Executive Briefing. The Economist Intelligence Unit. 20 Apr 2002.
[6] 
        Executive Briefing. The Economist Intelligence Unit. 20 Apr 2002.
[7] 
        Executive Briefing. The Economist Intelligence Unit. 20 Apr 2002.
[8] 
        Country Report Malaysia 1997 Main Report. The Economist Intelligence 
        Unit.
[9] 
        Country Report Malaysia 1998 Main Report. The Economist Intelligence 
        Unit.
[10] 
        Country Report Malaysia 2000 Main Report. The Economist Intelligence 
        Unit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 