FairVote - FAQs
97 captures
24 Nov 2005 - 14 Aug 2023
Sep
OCT
Nov
23
2007
2008
2010
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Collection: web_el_2008
  This data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20081023121012/http://www.fairvote.org/?page=168
about usreportsin the newsnewsletterblogget involveddonatecontact us
Home. > Program for Representative Government > Resources > FAQs
Frequently Asked QuestionsFull representation (also known as "Proportional Representation," or
"PR") voting systems are used by most of the world's established
democracies. Under full representation, representatives are elected
from multi-seat districts in proportion to the number of votes
received. Full representation assures that political parties or
candidates will have the percent of legislative seats that reflects
their public support. A party or candidate need not come in first to
win seats.In contrast, in the United States we use "winner-take-all" single seat
districts, where votes going to a losing candidate are wasted, even if
that candidate garners 49.9% of the vote. This leaves significant
groupings of voters unrepresented. Voters understand this possibility,
and so often we do not vote for a candidate we like, but rather the one
who realistically stands the best chance of winning -- the "lesser of
two evils." Or, all too often, we don't bother to vote at all.No wonder that, among the 21 democracies in Western Europe and North
America, the United States ranks near the bottom in voter turnout.What Are The Advantages Of Full Representation?Greater voter turnout (typically 70-90%) because there are more
choices for voters -- third, fourth, fifth parties and more from
diverse perspectives including more women and minorities elected:This leads to: more diverse representation cleaner campaigns run on the issues, not mud-slinging reduced effects of big moneyWhere In The World Is Full Representation Used?Some form of PR is used by most of the world's established democracies, including:GermanySwedenSwitzerlandBelgiumDenmarkHollandGreeceSpainAustriaAustralia       MexicoPortugalJapanRussiaItalyIrelandIsraelPolandHungaryIceland        New ZealandBrazilNicaraguaNorwayFinlandVenezuelaScotlandWalesUnited Kingdom (for European Parliament elections)and more...  "Winner-take-all" is still used in France, Great Britain, and a few of
France and Britain's former colonies that inherited it: the United
States, Canada, Pakistan, India and various Caribbean nations. It also
is used in the least democratized former Soviet Republics.The trend in the world is toward full representation and away from
"winner take all." Recently the United Kingdom, the grandmother of all
"winner take all" democracies, chose to use full representation to
elect representatives to the European Parliament. In their first
elections for regional assemblies, Scotland and Wales also chose full
representation systems.In April 1994 South Africa decided to use full representation rather
than "winner take all" to form a multi-racial democracy. In 1993 New
Zealand, Japan, Russia and Mexico adopted a form of full
representation. Significantly, most of the former Communist countries,
including Russia, have chosen to model their emerging democracies more
on proportional representation than the "winner-take-all" model. The
Ukraine, which initially chose "winner take all," has now switched to a
form of full representation. Both Iraq and Afghanistan have elected to
use full representation systems in their first elections with the
support of the UN as well as the American government.All these countries have adopted some form of full representation
because they recognize the obvious: full representation is a fairer,
more flexible, more modern electoral system than the antiquated
eighteenth century "winner-take-all" method. Is Full Representation The Same As A Parliamentary System?No, it isn't. A parliamentary system is a type of governmental system,
while full representation is a type of voting/electoral system. One is
about the structure of government, the other about how votes are
counted. Many, but not all, of the countries using full representation
combine it with a parliamentary governmental system. But this does not
have to be the case, and a full representation electoral system could
successfully be combined with the U.S. presidential system. Has Full Representation Been Tried In The U.S.?Various forms of full representation systems are used today to elect
the city councils of Cambridge MA (choice voting), Peoria IL
(cumulative voting), various cities and counties in Alabama, South
Dakota and Texas (cumulative or limited voting), the Democratic
presidential primaries, various corporate boards (cumulative voting),
and the finalists for the Academy Awards (choice voting).The choice voting form of full representation was first tried in the
U.S. in the early twentieth century and worked very well in 24 cities
like New York City, Boulder, Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Cambridge, MA.
Both the majority and various political and racial minorities gained
representation where their voices had previously been unheard. The
minorities at the time who won representation were Irish Catholics,
Polish immigrants, African Americans and leftists. Although only two of
the first 26 attempts to repeal choice voting were successful in cities
around the country, formerly dominant political forces outlasted
reformers and were successful in repealing full representation nearly
everywhere. Their general tactic was targeting unpopular minorities
like blacks and leftists. So How Does Full Representation Work?There are many different types of full representation, because it is a
flexible system that may be adapted to the situation of any city, state
or nation. Here are a few of the most common: List System -- by far the most widely used form of full
representation. The voter selects one party and its slate of candidates
to represent them. Party slates can be either "closed" or "open," with
open lists allowing voters to vote for individual candidates rather
than political parties. If a party receives 30% of the vote, they
receive 30% of the seats in the legislature, 10% of the vote receives
10% of the seats, and so on. A minimum share of the votes can be
required to earn representation; typically a 3-5% threshold is used.
This type of full representation is ideal for large legislatures on
state and national levels. Mixed Member System (MM) -- This full representation hybrid
elects half the legislature from single-seat, "winner-take-all"
districts and the other half by the List System. Mixed-member smoothly
combines geographic, ideological and proportional representation. Choice Voting -- the voter simply ranks candidates in an order of
preference (1,2,3,4, etc...). Once a voter's first choice is elected or
eliminated, excess votes are "transferred" to subsequent preferences
until all positions are filled. Voters can vote for their favorite
candidate(s), knowing that if that candidate doesn't receive enough
votes their vote will "transfer" to their next preference. With choice
voting, every vote counts and very few votes are wasted. Choice voting
is ideal for non-partisan elections like city councils. This method is
also called "Single Transferable Vote" or "STV". What About The President? We Can't Divide Up The Presidency, Can We?No, we can't. Single seat offices like the president, governor, mayor
or district representatives can't be elected with proportional
representation. However, there are much better ways for electing them
than what we use today, ways that guarantee that the winner will be
supported by a majority of voters. The most viable is Instant Runoff Voting (IRV). 
IRV is related to choice voting, because like choice voting the voter
simply ranks candidates in an order of preference (example. 1. Perot 2.
Clinton 3. Dole). The candidate with the least number of first place
votes is eliminated, and their votes are "transferred" to their 2nd
choice until a candidate has a majority. It is also called majority
preference voting or the alternative vote. IRV prevents "spoilers" from
giving the election to a candidate who doesn't have the support of the
majority without the expense and effort of a two-round runoff election. Could Full Representation Help Break Political Impasses In The U.S.?Yes, it could. Full representation allows small parties to be a
credible alternative to voters, giving them a national audience for
their views to advance new ideas. Full representation has no
ideological bias, but simply facilitates a fuller and more informed
discussion of policy options; this more grounded discussion in turn
provides greater opportunities to move to majority consensus on
difficult issues.An example of this is the German Greens. Without ever winning a single
district election or receiving more than 10% of the national vote, the
German Greens were able to see several of their environmental positions
become part of a national consensus. Full representation of course has
no ideological bias. It simply allows majorities to make policy while
also bringing minority perspectives to the table for consideration. But I Like Having A Representative From My Own District. Won't I Lose Out Without It?A representative from your own district is nice, but with
"winner-take-all" there's a good chance you didn't vote for that
representative. In the 1996 Congressional elections, only 28% of
eligible voters helped elect someone. Under full representation, you
will have, not one, but several representatives from a larger district.
And there is a much greater likelihood that at least one of those reps
will be someone you voted for, and whose viewpoint you endorse. In
South Africa's 1994 full representation elections, 86% of eligible
voters helped elect someone, including more than 99% of voters who went
to the polls to choose among nearly 20 political parties.Also, the mixed-member form of full representation used by Germany can
give voters the benefits of both: a representative from your district,
as well as a legislature that proportionally reflects the electorate.Full representation doesn't base representation so much on geography
but on political viewpoint. When our republic was young and dotted with
small communities barely connected by slow communication and primitive
transportation, the interests of citizens were similar to those of
their neighbors. But our society is more mobile now, more multicultural
and diverse. People living right next door to one another can have
completely opposite viewpoints, yet with our single seat
"winner-take-all" districts, only one of these voters will receive
representation -- the one that voted for the winner. Simple
geographical representation can no longer ensure fair political
representation for all voters and all political perspectives. What's Wrong With Only Two Parties?Two parties limit the voters' choices. U.S. citizens would never accept
an economic system that allowed us to buy cars from only two companies,
or to choose from only two airlines. Why then, should we have to settle
for just two options in politics? It's no wonder such a large portion
of the U.S. electorate decides not to participate. They're not buying
what the two parties are selling!The logjam and partisan bickering of U.S. politics is partly the result
of the winner-take-all two-party system, where each party says
"Everything my party does is right and everything your party does is
wrong." The optimum campaign strategy is to sling mud at your opponent,
driving their voters to your party. New ideas and solutions have a hard
time percolating to the surface in such a bitter environment. But this
dynamic is not so advantageous when there are three or more parties.Winner-take-all elections are also more susceptible to the corruption
of big money. A majority of votes is a lot of votes to win, and a
candidate has to plaster her or his name and face over every billboard,
bumper sticker and TV ad to win that many votes. Since so much is at
stake -- you either win the seat or you lose -- there is an urgency to
spend lavishly.But with full representation you don't have to come in first to win
seats. Whatever proportion of votes your party wins, you get that many
seats in the legislature. Full representation actually reduces the
percentage of votes it takes for a party or candidate to win a seat.
Candidates tend to run cleaner, more positive, issue-oriented
campaigns, targeted at a particular constituency. Such campaigns
require less money to win seats. Minor parties win representation in
full representation democracies even though they spend less money than
the major parties. Could Full Representation Help In Voting Rights Cases?Absolutely. With full representation, you actually need fewer votes to
gain seats than you would under a winner-take-all system, and you can
gather these votes from a larger area. This makes it easier for racial
and political minority perspectives to win seats, without having to be
concerned about how district lines are drawn.In June 1995, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Miller v. Johnson that
race-conscious districts are unconstitutional. Voting rights experts
including Lani Guinier, Ed Still, Gerald Hebert, Pamela Karlan and
Richard Engstrom have proposed various forms of full representation as
race-neutral methods to give racial as well as political minorities and
women a fair chance to elect representatives in competitive elections. Does Full Representation Affect The Election of Women?Yes, very much so. Research has shown that systems of full
representation result in greater numbers of elected women, and that
greater numbers of women are elected in multi-seat rather than
single-seat districts. Women currently make up only 12% of the U.S.
House of Representatives and 9% of the U.S. Senate. In state and local
legislatures, women average only one out of five legislators. According
to United Nation reports, the United States ranks low among western
democracies in terms of women's representation in national
legislatures. In fact, scholars have demonstrated that the
underrepresentation of blacks and Latinos is largely an
underrepresentation of black and Latino women. African American women
have only about one fourth the representation of black men. So How Do We Change From "Winner-Take-All" To Full Representation?In many states it is possible to convert to full representation simply
by changing applicable laws. Amendments to the U.S. Constitution are
not required. The laws can be changed by a simple vote of the
legislatures, or in many cases via a voter initiative. Full
representation can be adapted to fit with local, state and national
situations, bringing the democratic promise of "one person, one vote"
closer to fulfillment.If the political will could be mobilized, it is possible to convert
immediately to a system of full representation for electing
representatives to city councils, state legislatures, and even the U.S.
House of Representatives. U.S. Senators could be elected by Instant
Runoff Voting (IRV), giving voters more choice. As a bonus, full would
spare states the torment of legislative redistricting, an arduous,
bitter and partisan gerrymandering affair. Where Can I Learn More About Full Representation?Here's a partial reading list: Proportional Representation & Electoral Reform in Ohio. Kathleen Barber; Ohio University Press, 1995. The International IDEA Handbook of Electoral System Design Of Grunge and Government: Let's Fix this Broken Democracy. Krist Novoselic; RDV Books, 2004 Fixing Elections. Steve Hill; Routledge, 2002 Real Choices, New Voices. Douglas Amy; Columbia University Press, 1993 Tyranny of the Majority. Lani Guinier, 1994 Boston Review. "Reflecting All of Us: the Case for Proportional Representation," by Rob Richie and Steven Hill, Feb. / March 1998 Electoral Systems and Party Systems Professor Arend Lijphart; Oxford University Press, 1994 United States Electoral Systems: Their Impact on Women and Minorities. editors Dr. Wilma Rule and Dr. Joseph Zimmerman; Praeger Publishers, 1992 "A Radical Plan to Change American Politics" by Michael Lind, Atlantic Monthly, August 1992 Choosing an Electoral System, edited by Arend Lijphart and Bernard Grofman, Praeger Press, 1984. The Power to Elect, Enid Lakeman, Heinemann Press, 1982. Seats and Votes, Rein Taagepera and Matthew Shugart; Yale Univ Press, 1989. PR: The Key to Democracy, George Hallett; National Municipal League, 1940. Considerations on Representative Government, John Stuart Mill; Park, Son and Bourn, 1861. Women, Elections and Representation, by Robert Darcy, Susan Welch and Janet Clark; Longman Press, 1987. How Can I Get Involved In the Full Representation Movement?You can get involved by becoming a member of FairVote-the Center
for Voting and Democracy.  Check out our get involved page for
more ways to help the cause.
 
Recent ArticlesSeptember 23rd 2008Final arguments today on Port Chester voting-rights remedyLower Hudson Journal NewsA federal judge in White Plains will hear final arguments today on how to remedy Port Chester's village board elections, which were found to put Latino voters at a disadvantage. FairVote has filed an amicus brief arguing for a PR solution.September 20th 2008Issue 8 deserves voters’ OKBusiness Courier of CincinnatiThis newspaper editorial provides a strong endorsement for Cincinnati's campaign to reintroduce proportional voting.August 18th 2008A Free and Fair Vote Gives Power to the PeopleThe Seattle WeeklyBlogpost from FairVote Chair Krist Novoselic advocates cumulative voting for Washington State.July 16th 2008How to make local races for Legislature meaningfulThe Capital Times, Madison, WIEditorial suggesting that PR and IRV might beneficially increase competition in Wisconsin elections.
internshipsemploymenteventsfor pressbookstorepodcaststate groupsdonatecontact us