The Sorosoro program - Sorosoro Sorosoro
 
Linguistic diversity ... What for? ... What issues?
    The Sorosoro program        What's new  on Sorosoro        Sorosoro in the media        To donate        Contact     
FR   ES   EN   
Print  | 
  
The Sorosoro program
Of course, safeguarding the 6,000 to 7,000 languages that are spoken today all around the world is impossible : we already know that only a part of our linguistic heritage can be saved. Yet, we want to make our contribution and, in collaboration with the other actors of this sector, help to preserve as much as can be saved ; because inaction would imply resigning to the cultural impoverishment of  humanity.
 
 
Where does the name “Sorosoro” come from ?
 
Nowadays, the Araki language is only spoken by eight speakers in Vanuatu, a small state in the Pacific where we can find the biggest linguistic density in the world, about a hundred languages for 250 000 inhabitants.
 
In Araki, Sorosoro means “breath, speech, language”, and we have chosen this very symbolic word as the name for our program of safegard of endangered languages.
 
For the Araki language as for many others, time is running out. The process of extinction has accelerated considerably in recent decades and many languages with no more than a few speakers will disappear very quickly.
 
 
An endangered languages ​​documentation program
The field crews
 
The Sorosoro conferences
The Scientific board
 
A website
Our partners
Search  
 
Language Planisphere
Find out where thousands of languages are spoken
All about the languages of the world
Language families
Endangered languages
« New » languages
Linguistics for beginners
They work on cultural diversity
The sources of documentation
The scientists
Defending autochtonous peoples and cultures
Artistic projects
They wrote about languages
Texts by topic
Texts by author
News of endangered languages
Sorosoro is a program carried by the WOLACO Association (World Languages ​​Conservancy) and supported by the Laboratory of Excellence ASLAN (Advanced Studies on language complexity) from the University of Lyon.
SOROSORO © Copyright 2015 - Rozenn Milin / Kinoa / Yihui Zhan
Legal notice   |   Photo credits   |    
An endangered languages ​​documentation programThe field crewsThe Sorosoro conferencesThe Scientific boardA websiteOur partners