RACE WAR IN MALAYSIA -- Friday, May. 23, 1969 -- Page 1 -- TIME
203 captures
16 Feb 2007 - 09 Jul 2023
Jan
FEB
May
16
2006
2007
2008
success
fail
 About this capture
COLLECTED BY
Organization: Alexa Crawls
  Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive.  Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Collection: 39_crawl
  this data is currently not publicly accessible.
TIMESTAMPS
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20070216115230/http://www.time.com:80/time/magazine/article/0,9171,900859,00.html
Time.com
CNN.com
Search Archive
HOME
U.S.
WORLD
BLOGS
BUSINESS & TECH
HEALTH & SCIENCE
ENTERTAINMENT
PHOTOS
MAGAZINE
SPECIALS
RACE WAR IN MALAYSIA
Friday, May. 23, 1969
Article Tools
Print
Email
Reprints
MALAYSIA'S proud experiment in constructing a multiracial society
exploded in the streets of Kuala Lumpur last week. Malay mobs, wearing
white headbands signifying an alliance with death, and brandishing
swords and daggers, surged into Chinese areas in the capital, burning,
looting and killing. In retaliation, Chinese, sometimes aided by
Indians, armed themselves with pistols and shotguns and struck at Malay
kampongs (villages). Huge pillars of smoke rose skyward as houses,
shops and autos burned.Firemen drew sniper fire as they attempted to douse the flames, and
outnumbered police watched helplessly at times as the street gangs
rampaged. One man, trying to escape from his burning car, was thrown
back into it by a howling mob, and died. By the time the four days of
race war and civil strife had run their course, the General Hospital's
morgue was so crowded that bodies were put into plastic bags and hung
on ceiling hooks. Government officials, attempting to play down the
extent of the disaster, insisted that the death toll was only 104.
Western diplomatic sources put the toll closer to 600, with most of the
victims Chinese.No Longer Satisfied. From its inception, Malaysia has been haunted by
racial divisions. By tacit agreement, the Federation's 4,300,000 Malays
under Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman wielded political power.
Economic power was largely in the hands of Malaysia's 3,400,000
Chinese. There are also the 1,000,000 Indians and Pakistanis who make
up the third major ethnic group. What made it all work was the Tunku's
Alliance coalition, in which Malay, Chinese and Indian parties
participated. But for some time the Chinese and Indians had feared that
eventually they would be pushed out as laws favoring Malays for schools
and jobs bore fruit.The trouble began two weeks ago, when newly formed Chinese opposition
parties cut heavily into the Alliance's majority in parliamentary
elections. It became suddenly apparent that many Chinese were no longer
satisfied with just economic hegemony, but wanted a protective share of
the political power as well. Nothing was more surely calculated to
frighten the Malays, in particular the Malay "ultras" (right-wingers),
who have long preached the doctrine of Malaysia for the Malays.
Alarmed, the ultras began to discuss ways of retaining control. At a
Malay post-election meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Chinese onlookers began to
taunt those in attendance. Infuriated, the Malays attacked. At least
eight Chinese were killed and within 45 minutes fast-spreading riots
forced the Tunku to clamp a 24-hour curfew on the capital.
Page 1 of 2
1
|
2
| Next >>
Sphere It!
|
Digg it
|
Newsvine
|
Del.icio.us
|
|
Add RSS Feed
 
Top Stories
The Grassroots Abortion War
Hamas Gets the Upper Hand
Otto Frank's Hunt for a Visa 
Most popular
1. What Was Google Thinking?2. Has Jim Carrey Flipped Out?3. Law vs. Order in New Orleans4. Vote for Me, Al Franken5. Hamas Gets the Upper Hand
6. Otto Frank's Hunt for a Visa7. A New Afghan Evil: Drug Addiction8. Ex-Playmate Anna Nicole Smith Dies9. How Valentine's Day Conquered Japan10. Where Is Moqtada al-Sadr? 
Quotes of the Day
The drug dealer is us.
JOHN WALTERS, White House drug policy director
on a report that US teens' use of prescription drugs is on the rise
Features
| Click arrows to view more features
More features
 
Science
How to Beat AIDS?
Business & Tech
What Was Google Thinking?
The search engine's Valentine's Day logo puts the blogosphere in a tizzy. It was no joke and no error, the company insists; just artistic license
Entertainment
Has Jim Carrey Flipped?
Nation
Law vs. Order in New Orleans
The increase in crime since Hurricane Katrina has been bad enough, but tension between the Police Department and the District Attorney is making things even worse
Multimedia
The Ballad of the Hobo
World
Where Is Moqtada al-Sadr?
Supporters of the anti-American cleric say reports of his flight to Iran are false. But clerics in Najaf tell TIME there are signs he has left the city
Photo Essay
Westminster's Top Dogs
World
A New Afghan Evil: Drug Addiction
Afghanistan used to be content merely to supply most of the world's heroin. Now a growing number of Afghans are using the drug as well
Q & A
Mark Wahlberg
Nation
Vote for Me, Al Franken
Can a comedian really make a credible run for the U.S. Senate? If he's good enough and smart enough and, doggone it, if enough people like him
Quick Links:
U.S.|World|Blogs|Business & Tech|Health & Science|Entertainment|Photos|Magazine|Specials|Archive
Get TIME RSS Feeds|Get TIME on your Mobile Device|TIME Podcasts
Services:
Subscribe | Customer Service|Help|Site Map|Contact Us|Privacy Policy|Terms of Use|Media Kit|Reprints & Permissions|Opinion Leaders Panel 
Editions:
TIME Domestic|TIME Europe|TIME Asia|TIME South Pacific|TIME For Kids
Time.com
Copyright © 2007 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.