Javanese language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Classification
2History
Toggle History subsection
2.1Old Javanese
2.2Modern Javanese
3Geographical distribution
4Phonology
Toggle Phonology subsection
4.1Vowels
4.2Consonants
5Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
5.1Morphology
5.1.1Personal Pronoun
5.1.2Demonstrative
5.1.3Noun
5.1.4Numeral
5.1.5Verb
5.2Syntax
6Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
6.1Basic vocabulary
6.2Numbers
6.3Registers
7Dialects
Toggle Dialects subsection
7.1Dialects description
7.1.1Standard Javanese
7.1.2Central Javanese
7.1.3Western Javanese
7.1.4Eastern Javanese
7.1.5Surinamese-Javanese
7.2Phonetic differences
7.3Vocabulary differences
8Writing system
9Sample text
10See also
11References
Toggle References subsection
11.1Notes
11.2Citations
12Sources
13Further reading
14External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Javanese language
106 languages
AcèhAfrikaansअंगिकाالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaBasa BaliবাংলাBanjarBân-lâm-gúBasa BanyumasanБашҡортсаБеларускаяBikol CentralБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàCebuanoČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlingueИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaಕನ್ನಡქართულიKiswahiliКомиLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLigureМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuMinangkabau閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄မြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийСаха тылаᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsSimple EnglishکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt文言吴语Yorùbá粵語Zazaki中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyageWiktionary
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Not to be confused with Java (programming language), Japanese language, Javan, or JavaScript.
"Tegal language" redirects here. Not to be confused with Tegali language.
Austronesian language
Javanesebasa Jawaꦧꦱꦗꦮبَاسَا جَاوَا‎Basa Jawa (Javanese language) written in the Javanese scriptPronunciation[bɔsɔ d͡ʒɔwɔ]Native toIndonesiaEthnicity
Javanese
• Banyumasan
• Tenggerese
• Cirebonese
• Osing
Native speakers82 million (2007)[1]Language familyAustronesian
Malayo-PolynesianJavaneseEarly formsOld Javanese
Middle Javanese
Standard forms
Kawi(Early standard form)
Surakartan Javanese(Modern standard form)
DialectsJavanese dialectsWriting systemLatin scriptJavanese scriptPegon scriptOfficial statusOfficial language inIndonesia
Special Region of Yogyakarta[2]
Language codesISO 639-1jvISO 639-2javISO 639-3Variously:jav – Javanesejvn – Caribbean Javanesejas – New Caledonian Javaneseosi – Osingtes – Tenggeresekaw – KawiGlottologjava1253  Javanesicjava1254Linguasphere31-MFM-aDark green: areas where Javanese is the majority language. Light green: where it is a minority language.This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
This article contains letters from the Javanese script. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Javanese characters.
The word Jawa (Java) written in Javanese script
Two Javanese speakers, recorded in Indonesia
Javanese (/dʒɑːvəˈniːz/,[3] /dʒæv-/, /-ˈniːs/;[4] basa Jawa, Aksara Jawa: ꦧꦱꦗꦮ, Pegon: بَاسَا جَاوَا‎, IPA: [bɔsɔ d͡ʒɔwɔ]) is a Malayo-Polynesian language spoken by the Javanese people from the central and eastern parts of the island of Java, Indonesia. There are also pockets of Javanese speakers on the northern coast of western Java. It is the native language of more than 98 million people.[5]
Javanese is the largest of the Austronesian languages in number of native speakers. It has several regional dialects and a number of clearly distinct status styles.[6] Its closest relatives are the neighboring languages such as Sundanese, Madurese, and Balinese. Most speakers of Javanese also speak Indonesian for official and commercial purposes as well as a means to communicate with non-Javanese-speaking Indonesians.
There are speakers of Javanese in Malaysia (concentrated in the West Coast part of the states of Selangor and Johor) and Singapore. Javanese is also spoken by traditional immigrant communities of Javanese descent in Suriname, Sri Lanka and New Caledonia.[7]
Along with Indonesian, Javanese is an official language in the Special Region of Yogyakarta, Indonesia.[2]
Classification[edit]
Javanese is part of the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian language family, although its precise relationship to other Malayo-Polynesian languages is hard to determine. Using the lexicostatistical method, Isidore Dyen classified Javanese as part of the "Javo-Sumatra Hesion", which also includes the Sundanese and "Malayic" languages.[a][8][9] This grouping is also called "Malayo-Javanic" by linguist Berndt Nothofer, who was the first to attempt a reconstruction of it based on only four languages with the best attestation at the time (Javanese, Sundanese, Madurese, and Malay).[10]
Malayo-Javanic has been criticized and rejected by various linguists.[11][12] Alexander Adelaar does not include Javanese in his proposed Malayo-Sumbawan grouping (which also covers Malayic, Sundanese, and Madurese languages).[12][13] Robert Blust also does not include Javanese in the Greater North Borneo subgroup, which he proposes as an alternative to Malayo-Sumbawan grouping. However, Blust also expresses the possibility that Greater North Borneo languages are closely related to many other western Indonesian languages, including Javanese.[14] Blust's suggestion has been further elaborated by Alexander Smith, who includes Javanese in the Western Indonesian grouping (which also includes GNB and several other subgroups), which Smith considers as one of Malayo-Polynesian's primary branches.[15]
History[edit]
In general, the history of the Javanese language can be divided into two distinct phases: 1) Old Javanese and 2) New Javanese.[13][16]
Old Javanese[edit]
Main article: Kawi language
The earliest attested form of Old Javanese can be found on the Sukabumi inscription, which dates from 804 CE.[17] Between the 8.5th and the 15th century, this form of Javanese flourished in the island of Java. Old Javanese is commonly written in the form of verses. This language variety is also called kawi or 'of poets, poetical's,
although this term could also be used to refer to the archaic elements of New Javanese literature.[13] The writing system used to write Old Javanese is a descendant of the Pallava script from India.[17] Almost half of the entire vocabularies found in Old Javanese literature are Sanskrit loanwords, although Old Javanese also borrowed terms from other languages in the Maritime Southeast Asia.[13][17]
The form of Old Javanese found in several texts from 14th century onward (mostly written in Bali) is sometimes referred to as "Middle Javanese". Both Old and Middle Javanese written forms have not been widely used in Java since early 16th century. However, Old Javanese works and poetic tradition continue to be preserved in the Javanese-influenced Bali, and the variety is also used for religious purposes.[13][18]
Modern Javanese[edit]
Modern Javanese emerged as the main literary form of the language in the 16th century. The change in the literary system happened as Islam started to gain influence in Java.[16] In its early form, Modern Javanese literary form was based on the variety spoken in the north coast of Java, where Islam had already gained foothold among the local people. Many of the written works in this variety were Islamic in nature, and several of them were translation from works in Malay.[19] The Arabic abjad was also adopted (as Pegon) to write Javanese.[16][19]
The rise of Mataram in the 17th century shifted the main literary form of Javanese to be based on the inland variety. This written tradition was preserved by writers of Surakarta and Yogyakarta, and later became the basis of the modern written standard of the language.[19] Another linguistic development associated with the rise of Mataram is the stratification of Javanese into speech levels such as ngoko and krama,[20] which were unknown in Old Javanese.[19][20]
Books in Javanese have been printed since 1830s, at first using the Javanese script, although the Latin alphabet started to be used later. Since mid-19th century, Javanese has been used in newspapers and travelogues, and later, also novels, short stories, as well as free verses. Today, it is used in media, ranging from books to TV programs, and the language is also taught at schools in primarily Javanese areas.
Although Javanese is not a national language, it has recognized status as a regional language in the three Indonesian provinces with the biggest concentrations of Javanese people: Central Java, Yogyakarta, and East Java.[citation needed] Javanese is taught at schools and is used in some mass media, both electronically and in print. There is, however, no longer a daily newspaper in Javanese. Javanese-language magazines include Panjebar Semangat, Jaka Lodhang, Jaya Baya, Damar Jati, and Mekar Sari.
Since 2003, an East Java local television station (JTV) has broadcast some of its programmes in the Surabayan dialect, including Pojok Kampung ("Village Corner", main newscast), Kuis RT/RW ("RT/RW Quiz"), and Pojok Perkoro ("Case Corner", a crime newscast). In later broadcasts, JTV offers programmes in the Central Javanese dialect (called by them basa kulonan, "the western language") and Madurese.
In 2005 a new Javanese language magazine, Damar Jati, appeared. It is not published in the Javanese heartlands, but in Jakarta.
Javanese is designated as the official language of the Special Region of Yogyakarta under Yogyakarta Special Region Regulation Number 2 of 2021.[2] Previously, Central Java promulgated a similar regulation—Regional Regulation 9/2012[21]—but this did not imply an official status for the language.
Geographical distribution[edit]
See also: Javanese people
Javanese is spoken throughout Indonesia, neighboring Southeast Asian countries, the Netherlands, Suriname, New Caledonia, and other countries. The largest populations of speakers are found in the six provinces of Java itself, and in the neighboring Sumatran province of Lampung.
The language is spoken in Yogyakarta, Central and East Java, as well as on the north coast of West Java and Banten. It is also spoken elsewhere by the Javanese people in other provinces of Indonesia, who are numerous due to the government-sanctioned transmigration program in the late 20th century, including Lampung, Jambi, and North Sumatra provinces. In Suriname, Javanese is spoken among descendants of plantation migrants brought by the Dutch during the 19th century.[22] In Madura, Bali, Lombok, and the Sunda region of West Java, it is also used as a literary language. It was the court language in Palembang, South Sumatra, until the palace was sacked by the Dutch in the late 18th century.
Javanese is written with the Latin script, Javanese script, and Arabic script.[23] In the present day, the Latin script dominates writings, although the Javanese script is still taught as part of the compulsory Javanese language subject in elementary up to high school levels in Yogyakarta, Central and East Java.
Javanese is the tenth largest language by native speakers and the fifth largest language without official status at the national level. It is spoken or understood by approximately 100 million people. At least 45% of the total population of Indonesia are of Javanese descent or live in an area where Javanese is the dominant language. All seven Indonesian presidents since 1945 have been of Javanese descent.[b] It is therefore not surprising that Javanese has had a deep influence on the development of Indonesian, the national language of Indonesia.
There are three main dialects of the modern language: Central Javanese, Eastern Javanese, and Western Javanese. These three dialects form a dialect continuum from northern Banten in the extreme west of Java to Banyuwangi Regency in the eastern corner of the island. All Javanese dialects are more or less mutually intelligible.
A table showing the number of native speakers in 1980, for the 22 Indonesian provinces (from the total of 27) in which more than 1% of the population spoke Javanese:[c]
Indonesian province
% of provincial population
Javanese speakers (1980)
1.
Aceh
6.7%
175,000
2.
North Sumatra
21.0%
1,757,000
3.
West Sumatra
1.0%
56,000
4.
Jambi
17.0%
245,000
5.
South Sumatra
12.4%
573,000
6.
Bengkulu
15.4%
118,000
7.
Lampung
62.4%
2,886,000
8.
Riau
8.5%
184,000
9.
Jakarta
3.6%
236,000
10.
West Java[d]
13.3%
3,652,000
11.
Central Java
96.9%
24,579,000
12.
Yogyakarta
97.6%
2,683,000
13.
East Java
74.5%
21,720,000
14.
Bali
1.1%
28,000
15.
West Kalimantan
1.7%
41,000
16.
Central Kalimantan
4.0%
38,000
17.
South Kalimantan
4.7%
97,000
18.
East Kalimantan
10.1%
123,000
19.
North Sulawesi
1.0%
20,000
20.
Central Sulawesi
2.9%
37,000
21.
Southeast Sulawesi
3.6%
34,000
22.
Maluku
1.1%
16,000
According to the 1980 census, Javanese was used daily in approximately 43% of Indonesian households. By this reckoning there were well over 60 million Javanese speakers,[24] from a national population of 147,490,298.[25][e]
Madurese in Javanese script
In Banten, the descendants of the Central Javanese conquerors who founded the Islamic Sultanate there in the 16th century still speak an archaic form of Javanese.[26] The rest of the population mainly speaks Sundanese and Indonesian, since this province borders directly on Jakarta.[f]
At least one third of the population of Jakarta are of Javanese descent, so they speak Javanese or have knowledge of it. In the province of West Java, many people speak Javanese, especially those living in the areas bordering Central Java, the cultural homeland of the Javanese.
Almost a quarter of the population of East Java province are Madurese (mostly on the Isle of Madura); many Madurese have some knowledge of colloquial Javanese. Since the 19th century, Madurese was also written in the Javanese script.[g]
The original inhabitants of Lampung, the Lampungese, make up only 15% of the provincial population. The rest are the so-called "transmigrants", settlers from other parts of Indonesia, many as a result of past government transmigration programs. Most of these transmigrants are Javanese who have settled there since the 19th century.
In Suriname (the former Dutch colony of Surinam), South America, approximately 15% of the population of some 500,000 are of Javanese descent, among whom 75,000 speak Javanese. A local variant evolved: the Tyoro Jowo-Suriname or Suriname Javanese.[27]
Phonology[edit]
The phonemes of Modern Standard Javanese as shown below.[28][29]
Vowels[edit]
Front
Central
Back
Close
i
   
u
Close-mid
e
ə
o
Open-mid
(ɛ)
(ɔ)
Open
 
a
 
In closed syllables the vowels /i u e o/ are pronounced [ɪ ʊ ɛ ɔ] respectively.[28][30] In open syllables, /e o/ are also [ɛ ɔ] when the following vowel is /i u/ in an open syllable; otherwise they are /ə/, or identical (/e...e/, /o...o/). In the standard dialect of Surakarta, /a/ is pronounced [ɔ] in word-final open syllables, and in any open penultimate syllable before such an [ɔ].
Consonants[edit]
Labial
Dental/Alveolar
Retroflex
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ɲ
ŋ
Plosive/Affricate
stiff voice
p
t̪
ʈ
tʃ
k
ʔ
slack voice
b̥
d̪̥
ɖ̥
dʒ̊
ɡ̊
Fricative
s
h
Semivowel
j
w
Liquid
lateral
l
rhotic
r
The Javanese "voiced" phonemes are not in fact voiced but voiceless, with breathy voice on the following vowel.[28] The relevant distinction in phonation of the plosives is described as stiff voice versus slack voice.[31][29]
A Javanese syllable can have the following form: CSVC, where C = consonant, S = sonorant (/j/, /r/, /l/, /w/, or any nasal consonant), and V = vowel. As with other Austronesian languages, native Javanese roots consist of two syllables; words consisting of more than three syllables are broken up into groups of disyllabic words for pronunciation. In Modern Javanese, a disyllabic root is of the following type: nCsvVnCsvVC.
Apart from Madurese, Javanese is the only language of Western Indonesia to possess a distinction between dental and retroflex phonemes.[28] The latter sounds are transcribed as "th" and "dh" in the modern Roman script, but previously by the use of an underdot: "ṭ" and "ḍ".
Grammar[edit]
Morphology[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (September 2022)
Javanese, like many other Austronesian languages, is an agglutinative language, where base words are modified through extensive use of affixes.
Personal Pronoun[edit]
Javanese has no specific personal pronoun to express plural except for the word kita which is probably absorbed from Indonesian or Malay. Pronoun pluralization can be ignored or expressed by using phrases such as aku kabèh 'we', awaké dhéwé 'us', dhèwèké kabèh 'them' and so on. Personal pronoun in Javanese, especially for the second and third person, are more often replaced by certain nouns or titles. In addition to the pronoun described in the table below, Javanese still has a variety of other pronoun whose use varies depending on the dialect or level of speech.[32][33][34][page needed]
Personal Pronoun[32][33][34][page needed]
Gloss
Freestanding form
Prefix
Suffix
Ngoko
Madya
Krama
Krama InggilKrama Andhap
1SG, 1PL.EXCL
I
aku
–
kula
dalem
tak-, dak-
-ku
1PL.INCL
kita
–
–
–
–
–
2SG, 2PL
You
kowé
samang
sampéyan
panjenengan
ko-, kok-
-mu
3SG, 3PL
He, She, It
dhèwèké
–
piyambakipun
panjenengané,
panjenenganipun
di-
-(n)é, -(n)ipun
Demonstrative[edit]
Demonstrative
Proximal
Medial
Distal
neutral
iki, kiyi, kiyé
iku, kuwi, kuwé
(ika), kaé
local
kéné
kono
kana
locative
mréné, réné
mrono, rono
mrana, rana
modal
mengkéné, ngéné
mengkono, ngono
mengkana, ngana
quantitative
seméné, méné
semono, mono
semana, mana
temporal
sepréné
–
seprana
Noun[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (July 2023)
Numeral[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (July 2023)
Verb[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (July 2023)
Syntax[edit]
Modern Javanese usually employs SVO word order. However, Old Javanese sometimes had VSO and sometimes VOS word order. Even in Modern Javanese, archaic sentences using VSO structure can still be made.
Examples:
Modern Javanese: "Dhèwèké (S) teka (V) ing (pp.) karaton (O)".[35]
Old Javanese: "Teka (V) ta (part.) sira (S) ri (pp.) -ng (def. art.) kadhatwan (O)".[h]
Both sentences mean: "He (S) comes (V) into (pp.) the (def. art.) palace (O)". In the Old Javanese sentence, the verb is placed at the beginning and is separated by the particle ta from the rest of the sentence. In Modern Javanese the definite article is lost, and definiteness is expressed by other means if necessary.
Verbs are not inflected for person or number. There is no grammatical tense; time is expressed by auxiliary words meaning "yesterday", "already", etc. There is a complex system of verb affixes to express differences of status in subject and object. However, in general the structure of Javanese sentences both Old and Modern can be described using the topic–comment model, without having to refer to conventional grammatical categories. The topic is the head of the sentence; the comment is the modifier. So the example sentence has a simpler description: Dhèwèké = topic; teka = comment; ing karaton = setting.
Vocabulary[edit]
Javanese has many loanwords supplementing those from the native Austronesian base. Sanskrit has had a deep and lasting impact. The Old Javanese–English Dictionary contains approximately 25,500 entries, over 12,600 of which are borrowings from Sanskrit.[36] Such a high number is no measure of usage, but it does suggest the extent to which the language adopted Sanskrit words for formal purposes. In a typical Old Javanese literary work about 25% of the vocabulary is from Sanskrit. Many Javanese personal names also have clearly recognisable Sanskrit roots.
Sanskrit words are still very much in use. Modern speakers may describe Old Javanese and Sanskrit words as kawi (roughly meaning "literary"); but kawi words may also be from Arabic. Dutch and Malay are influential as well; but none of these rivals the position of Sanskrit.
There are far fewer Arabic loanwords in Javanese than in Malay, and they are usually concerned with Islamic religion. Nevertheless, some words have entered the basic vocabulary, such as pikir ("to think", from the Arabic fikr), badan ("body"), mripat ("eye", thought to be derived from the Arabic ma'rifah, meaning "knowledge" or "vision"). However, these Arabic words typically have native Austronesian or Sanskrit alternatives: pikir = galih, idhep (Austronesian) and manah, cipta, or cita (from Sanskrit); badan = awak (Austronesian) and slira, sarira, or angga (from Sanskrit); and mripat = mata (Austronesian) and soca or nétra (from Sanskrit).
Dutch loanwords usually have the same form and meaning as in Indonesian, with a few exceptions such as:
Javanese
Indonesian
Dutch
English
pit
sepeda
fiets
bicycle
pit montor
sepeda motor
motorfiets
motorcycle
sepur
kereta api
spoor, i.e. (rail) track
train
potelot
pensil
potlood
pencil
The word sepur also exists in Indonesian, but there it has preserved the literal Dutch meaning of "railway tracks", while the Javanese word follows Dutch figurative use, and "spoor" (lit. "rail") is used as metonymy for "trein" (lit. "train"). (Compare a similar metonymic use in English: "to travel by rail" may be used for "to travel by train".)
Malay was the lingua franca of the Indonesian archipelago before the proclamation of Indonesian independence in 1945; and Indonesian, which was based on Malay, is now the official language of Indonesia. As a consequence, there has been an influx of Malay and Indonesian vocabulary into Javanese. Many of these words are concerned with bureaucracy or politics.
Basic vocabulary[edit]
English
Ngoko
Krama
yes
iya
inggih or nggih[37]
no
ora
boten
what
apa
punapa
who
sapa
sinten
how
kapriyé or kepiyé
kados pundi or pripun
why
nangapa or ngapa
kènging punapa
eat
mangan
nedha
sleep
turu
saré
here
ing kéné
ing riki or mriki
there
ing kana
ing rika or mrika
there is (there are)
ana
wonten
there is no (there are no)
ora ana
boten wonten
no! or I don't want it!
emoh
wegah
make a visit for pleasure
dolan
amèng-amèng
Numbers[edit]
Main article: Javanese numerals
[Javanese Ngoko is on the left, and Javanese Krama is on the right.]
Numeral
Javanese script
Ngoko
Krama
Notes
0
꧇꧐꧇
nul, das
das
1
꧇꧑꧇
siji
satunggal
2
꧇꧒꧇
loro
kalih
3
꧇꧓꧇
telu
tiga
Krama word is derived from Pali tiga, from Sanskrit trika
4
꧇꧔꧇
papat
sakawan
5
꧇꧕꧇
lima
gangsal
6
꧇꧖꧇
enem
enem
7
꧇꧗꧇
pitu
pitu
8
꧇꧘꧇
wolu
wolu
9
꧇꧙꧇
sanga
sanga
10
꧇꧑꧐꧇
sapuluh
sadasa
Krama word is derived from Austronesian prefix sa- "one, a" and Sanskrit word dasa "ten"
11
꧇꧑꧑꧇
sewelas
satunggal welas
20
꧇꧒꧐꧇
rong puluh
kalih dasa
21
꧇꧒꧑꧇
selikur
satunggal likur
22
꧇꧒꧒꧇
ro likur
kalih likur
23
꧇꧒꧓꧇
telu likur
tigang likur
24
꧇꧒꧔꧇
pat likur
sakawan likur
25
꧇꧒꧕꧇
selawé
salangkung
26
꧇꧒꧖꧇
nem likur
enem likur
27
꧇꧒꧗꧇
pitu likur
pitung likur
28
꧇꧒꧘꧇
wolu likur
wolung likur
29
꧇꧒꧙꧇
sangang likur
sangang likur
30
꧇꧓꧐꧇
telung puluh
tigang dasa
31
꧇꧓꧑꧇
telung puluh siji
tigang dasa satunggal
40
꧇꧔꧐꧇
patang puluh
sakawan dasa
41
꧇꧔꧑꧇
patang puluh siji
sakawan dasa satunggal
50
꧇꧕꧐꧇
sèket
sèket
51
꧇꧕꧑꧇
sèket siji
sèket satunggal
60
꧇꧖꧐꧇
sewidak
sawidak
61
꧇꧖꧑꧇
sewidak siji
sawidak satunggal
70
꧇꧗꧐꧇
pitung puluh
pitung dasa
80
꧇꧘꧐꧇
wolung puluh
wolung dasa
90
꧇꧙꧐꧇
sangang puluh
sangang dasa
100
꧇꧑꧐꧐꧇
satus
satunggal atus
hundreds
atusan
atusan
1000
꧇꧑꧐꧐꧐꧇
sèwu
satunggal èwu
thousands
éwon
éwon
Registers [edit]
A Javanese noble lady (left) would address her servant with one vocabulary, and be answered with another. (Studio portrait of painter Raden Saleh's wife and a servant, colonial Batavia, 1860–1872.)
In common with other Austronesian languages, Javanese is spoken differently depending on the social context. In Austronesian there are often three distinct styles or registers.[38] Each employs its own vocabulary, grammatical rules, and even prosody. In Javanese these styles are called:
Ngoko (ꦔꦺꦴꦏꦺꦴ): Vernacular or informal speech, used between friends and close relatives. It is also used by persons of higher status (such as elders, or bosses) addressing those of lower status (young people, or subordinates in the workplace).
Madya (ꦩꦢꦾ): Intermediate between ngoko and krama. Strangers on the street would use it, where status differences may be unknown and one wants to be neither too formal nor too informal. The term is from Sanskrit madhya ("middle").[39]
Krama (ꦏꦿꦩ): The polite, high-register, or formal style. It is used between those of the same status when they do not wish to be informal. It is used by persons of lower status to persons of higher status, such as young people to their elders, or subordinates to bosses; and it is the official style for public speeches, announcements, etc. The term is from Sanskrit krama ("in order").[39]
There are also "meta-style" honorific words, and their converse "humilifics". Speakers use "humble" words concerning themselves, but honorific words concerning anyone of greater age of higher social status. The humilific words are called krama andhap, while the honorifics are called krama inggil. This honorific system is very similar to that of the Japanese keigo, and was likely influenced by it during the Japanese Empire's occupation of Java in World War II.[citation needed] Children typically use the ngoko style, but in talking to the parents they must be competent with both krama inggil and krama andhap.
The most polite word meaning "eat" is dhahar. But it is forbidden to use these most polite words for oneself, except when talking with someone of lower status; and in this case, ngoko style is used. Such most polite words are reserved for addressing people of higher status:
Mixed usages
(honorific – addressing someone of high status) Bapak kersa dhahar? ("Do you want to eat?"; literally "Does father want to eat?")
(reply to a person of lower status, expressing speaker's superiority) Iya, aku kersa dhahar. ("Yes, I want to eat.")
(reply to a person of lower status, but without expressing superiority) Iya, aku arep mangan.
(reply to a person of equal status) Inggih, kula badhé nedha.
The use of these different styles is complicated and requires thorough knowledge of Javanese culture, which adds to the difficulty of Javanese for foreigners. The full system is not usually mastered by most Javanese themselves, who might use only the ngoko and a rudimentary form of the krama. People who can correctly use the different styles are held in high esteem.
Dialects[edit]
Susuhunan Pakubuwono X of Surakarta. Surakarta has been a center of Javanese culture, and its dialect is regarded as the most "refined".
There are three main groups of Javanese dialects, based on sub-regions: Western Javanese, Central Javanese, and Eastern Javanese. The differences are primarily in pronunciation, but with vocabulary differences also. Javanese dialects are all mutually intelligible.
A preliminary general classification of Javanese dialects given by the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology's Department of Linguistics is as follows.[40] Pesisir (Tegalan), Banyumas and Tengger are considered to be among the most conservative dialects.[41][42] The Banten, Pesisir Lor, Banyumas and Tengger dialect do not have the vowel raising and vowel harmony features that are innovations of the "standard" Solo and Yogyakarta dialects.
West Java (Geographically) :
Banten
Cirebon
Central Java (Geographically) :
Pesisir Lor dialects[41]
Tegal
Pemalang
Pekalongan
Yogyakarta
Surakarta/Solo
Semarang
Banyumas[43]
Cilacap
Purwokerto
Kebumen
East Java (Geographically)
Surabaya
Malang
Madiun-Kediri-Nganjuk[44]
Lumajang
Osing[45]
Tengger
Dialects description[edit]
Standard Javanese[edit]
Standard Javanese is the variety of the Javanese language that was developed at the Yogyakarta and Surakarta courts, based on the Central Javanese dialect, and becomes the basis for the Javanese modern writings. It is marked with the strict usage of two speech levels for politeness, i.e. vernacular level called ngoko and high-register level called krama. Other dialects do not contrast the usage of the speech levels.[46]
Central Javanese[edit]
Central Javanese (Jawa Tengahan) is founded on the speech of Surakarta[i] and to a lesser extent of Yogyakarta. It is considered the most "refined" of the regional variants, and serves as a model for the standard language. Those two cities are the seats of four Javanese principalities (heirs to the Mataram Sultanate) that once dominated the whole of Java and beyond. This variant is used throughout Central Java and the Special Region of Yogyakarta, and there are many lower-level dialects such as Muria and Semarangan, as well as Surakarta and Yogyakarta themselves. The variations in Central Java are said to be so plentiful that almost every administrative region (or kabupatèn) has its own local slang; but those minor dialects are not seen as distinct by most Javanese speakers.
Central Javanese is also used in the western part of East Java province. For example, Javanese spoken in the Madiun region (along with Javanese spoken in Blitar, Ponorogo, Pacitan, and Tulungagung, and central parts of Kediri) bears a strong influence of Surakarta Javanese.
Mataram dialect / Kewu dialect / Standard dialect is spoken commonly in Yogyakarta, Surakarta, Klaten, Karanganyar, Wonogiri, Sukoharjo, Sragen, and Boyolali.
Pekalongan dialect is spoken in Pekalongan, Pekalongan regency, Batang and also in Pemalang.
Kedu dialect is spoken in the former Kedu residency, including: Temanggung, eastern part of Kebumen, Magelang, and Wonosobo.
Bagelen dialect is sub-dialect of Kedu spoken in Purworejo.
Semarang dialect is spoken in Semarang, Semarang regency, and also Salatiga, Grobogan, Demak and Kendal.
Eastern North-Coast dialect, or dhialèk Muria, is spoken in Jepara, Rembang, Kudus, Pati, and also in Tuban and Bojonegoro.
Blora dialect is sub-dialect of Muria, spoken in Blora, the eastern part of Grobogan, and the western part of Ngawi.
Madiunan dialect / Mataraman dialect is spoken mainly in western part of East Java province, including Madiun, Ngawi, Pacitan, Ponorogo, Magetan, Kediri, Nganjuk, Trenggalek, Tulungagung, and Blitar.
Western Javanese[edit]
Western Javanese (Jawa Kulonan), spoken in the western part of the Central Java province and throughout the West Java and Banten province (particularly on the north coast), includes dialects that are distinct for their Sundanese influences. It retains many archaic words and original pronunciation from Old Javanese.
North Banten dialect (Jawa Sérang) is spoken in Serang, Cilegon, and the western part of Tangerang regency.
Cirebon dialect (Cirebonan or basa Cerbon) is spoken in Cirebon, Indramayu and Losari.
Tegal dialect, known as Tegalan or dhialèk Pantura (North-Coast dialect), is spoken in Tegal, Brebes, and the western part of Pemalang regency.
Banyumas dialect, known as Banyumasan, is spoken in Banyumas, Cilacap, Purbalingga, Banjarnegara, and Bumiayu.
Some Western Javanese dialects such as Banyumasan dialects and Tegal dialect are sometimes referred to as basa ngapak by other Javanese.
Eastern Javanese[edit]
Eastern Javanese (Jawa Wétanan) speakers range from the eastern banks of Brantas River in Kertosono, and from Jombang to Banyuwangi, comprising the second majority of the East Java province excluding Madura island , Situbondo and Bondowoso. However, some variant like Pedalungan has been influenced by Madurese.
The most outlying Eastern Javanese dialect is spoken in Balambangan (or Banyuwangi). It is generally known as basa Using. Using, a local negation word, is a cognate of tusing in Balinese.
Arekan dialect is commonly spoken in Surabaya, Malang, Gresik, Mojokerto, Pasuruan, Lumajang, Lamongan and Sidoarjo. Many Madurese people also use this dialect as their second language.
Jombang dialect
Tengger dialect used by Tengger people, which is centered in thirty villages in the isolated Tengger mountains (Mount Bromo) within the Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park in East-Central Java.
Osing dialect spoken in Banyuwangi.
Surinamese-Javanese[edit]
Surinamese-Javanese is mainly based on Central Javanese, especially from Kedu residency. The number of speakers of Suriname-Javanese in Suriname was estimated at 60,000 as of 2012.[47] Most Surinamese-Javanese are bi- or trilingual. According to the 2004 census, Surinamese-Javanese was the first or second language in 11 percent of households. In a 2012 study of multilingualism in Surinamese education by the Dutch Language Union,[47] 3,497 out of 22,643 pupils (15 percent) in primary education indicated Surinamese-Javanese as a language spoken at home. Most of them were living in Wanica and Paramaribo districts.
Not all immigrants from Indonesia to Suriname were speakers of Javanese. Immigration records show that 90 percent of immigrants were Javanese, with 5 percent Sundanese, 0.5 percent Madurese and 2.5 percent from Batavia. The ethnic composition of this last group was not determinable. Probably Sundanese, Madurese or Malay speaking immigrants were forced to learn Javanese during their stay in Suriname to adapt. In view of the language policies in Netherlands Indies at the time of immigration, it is unlikely the immigrants had knowledge of the Dutch language prior to immigration to Suriname. Dutch today is the official language of Suriname.
Surinamese Javanese is somewhat different from Indonesian Javanese.[48][49] In Surinamese-Javanese there is a difference between formal and informal speech. Surinamese-Javanese took many loanwords from languages like Dutch, Sranantongo, Sarnami and Indonesian. The influence of the latter language, which is not spoken in Suriname, can be attributed to the Indonesian embassy and Islamic teachers from Indonesia. Indonesian movies are popular, and usually shown without subtitles on Surinamese-Javanese television channels.
Surinamese-Javanese[48]
Sranantongo
Dutch
English
ngabrah
abra
over
across
bakrah
bakra
blanke
white man
blangkeman
blakaman
zwarte man
black man
pernangsi
pernasi
plantage
plantation
sekaut
skowtu
schout (politieagent)
policeman
In 1986, the Surinamese government adopted an official spelling for Surinamese-Javanese.[50] It is seldom used as a written language, however.
In the 2012 survey, pupils who indicated Surinamese-Javanese as a language spoken at home, reported Dutch (97.9 percent) and Sranantongo (76.9 percent) also being spoken in the household.
Surinamese-Javanese speaking pupils report high proficiency in speaking and understanding, but very low literacy in the language. They report a low preference for the language in interaction with family members, including their parents, with the exception of their grandparents. Pupils where Surinamese-Javanese is spoken at tend at home to speak Dutch (77 percent) rather than Surinamese-Javanese (12 percent).
Phonetic differences[edit]
Phoneme /i/ at closed ultima is pronounced as [ɪ] in Central Javanese (Surakarta–Yogyakarta dialect), as [i] in Western Javanese (Banyumasan dialect), and as [ɛ] in Eastern Javanese.
Phoneme /u/ at closed ultima is pronounced as [ʊ] in Central Javanese, as [u] in Western Javanese, and as [ɔ] in Eastern Javanese.
Phoneme /a/ at closed ultima in Central Javanese is pronounced as [a] and at open ultima as [ɔ]. Regardless of position, it tends toward [a] in Western Javanese and as [ɔ] in Eastern Javanese.
Western Javanese tends to add a glottal stop at the end of word-final vowels, e.g.: Ana apa? [anaʔ apaʔ] "What happened?", Aja kaya kuwè! [adʒaʔ kajaʔ kuwɛʔ] "Don't be like that!".
Dialectal Phonetics
Phoneme
Orthography
Central Javanese (standard)
Western Javanese
Eastern Javanese
English
/i/
getih
[g̊ət̪ɪh]
[g̊ət̪ih]
[g̊ət̪ɛh]
blood
/u/
abuh
[ab̥ʊh]
[ab̥uh]
[ab̥ɔh]
swollen
/a/
lenga
[ləŋɔ]
[ləŋa]
[ləŋɔ]
oil
/a/
kancamu/kancané kowé
[kaɲtʃamu]
[kaɲtʃanɛ kowɛ]
[kɔɲtʃɔmu]
your friend
Final consonant devoicing occurs in the standard Central Javanese dialect, but not in Banyumasan. For example, endhog (egg) is pronounced [əɳɖ̥ɔk] in standard Central Javanese, but [əɳɖ̥ɔg] in Banyumasan. The latter is closer to Old Javanese.[43]
Vocabulary differences[edit]
The vocabulary of standard Javanese is enriched by dialectal words. For example, to get the meaning of "you", Western Javanese speakers say rika /rikaʔ/, Eastern Javanese use kon /kɔn/ or koen /kɔən/, and Central Javanese speakers say kowé /kowe/. Another example is the expression of "how": the Tegal dialect of Western Javanese uses kepribèn /kəpriben/, the Banyumasan dialect of Western Javanese employs kepriwé /kəpriwe/ or kepriwèn /kəpriwen/, Eastern Javanese speakers say ya' apa /jɔʔ ɔpɔ/ – originally meaning "like what" (kaya apa in standard Javanese) or kepiyé /kəpije/ – and Central Javanese speakers say piye /pije/ or kepriyé /kəprije/.
Mataraman (standard)
Northern Banten
Cirebon-Indramayu
Tegal-Brebes
Banyumas
Surabaya
English
aku
kite
kita, isun
enyong
inyong
aku, awakku
I, me
kowé
sire
sira
koen
rika, kowè
koen, awakmu
you
tenan
pisan
pisan
temen
temen
temenan, temen
truly
kepiyé, piyé
keprimèn
kepribèn, kepriwè
kepribèn
kepriwè
ya'apa
how
ora
ore
ora, beli
ora, belih
ora
gak, ora
not
mlebu
manjing
manjing
manjing, mlebu
mlebu
melbu, menjero
to enter
arep
arep
arep, pan
pan
arep
apé, até, katé
will
saka
sake
sing
sing
sekang
teka
from
The Madiun–Kediri dialect has some idiosyncratic vocabulary, such as panggah 'still' (standard Javanese: pancet), lagèk 'progressive modal' (standard Javanese: lagi), and emphatic particles nda, pèh, and lé.[44]
Writing system[edit]
A modern bilingual text in Portuguese and Javanese in Yogyakarta
Main article: Javanese script
Javanese has been traditionally written with Javanese script. Javanese and the related Balinese script are modern variants of the old Kawi script, a Brahmic script introduced to Java along with Hinduism and Buddhism. Kawi is first attested in a legal document from 804 AD. It was widely used in literature and translations from Sanskrit from the 10th century; by the 17th, the script is identified as carakan.
The Javanese script is an abugida. Each of the twenty letters represents a syllable with a consonant (or a "zero consonant") and the inherent vowel 'a' that is pronounced as /ɔ/ in open position. Various diacritics placed around the letter indicate a different vowel than [ɔ], a final consonant, or a foreign pronunciation.
Letters have subscript forms used to transcribe consonant clusters, though the shape are relatively straightforward, and not as distinct as conjunct forms of Devanagari. Some letters are only present in old Javanese and became obsolete in modern Javanese. Some of these letters became "capital" forms used in proper names. Punctuation includes a comma; period; a mark that covers the colon, quotations, and indicates numerals; and marks to introduce a chapter, poem, song, or letter.
However, Javanese can also be written with the Arabic script (known as the Pegon script) and today generally uses Latin script instead of Javanese script for practical purposes. A Latin orthography based on Dutch was introduced in 1926, revised in 1972–1973; it has largely supplanted the carakan. The current Latin-based forms:
Majuscule forms (uppercase)
A
Å
B
C
D
Dh
E
É
È
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
Ng
Ny
O
P
Q
R
S
T
Th
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Minuscule forms (lowercase)
a
å
b
c
d
dh
e
é
è
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
m
n
ng
ny
o
p
q
r
s
t
th
u
v
w
x
y
z
IPA
a
ɔ
b̥
tʃ
d̪̥
ɖ̥
ə, e
e
ɛ
f
g̊
h
i
dʒ̊
k
l
m
n
ŋ
ɲ
ɔ, o
p
q
r
s
t̪
ʈ
u
v
w
x
j
z
The italic letters are used in loanwords from European languages and Arabic.
Javanese script:
Base consonant letters
ꦲ
ꦤ
ꦕ
ꦫ
ꦏ
ꦢ
ꦠ
ꦱ
ꦮ
ꦭ
ꦥ
ꦝ
ꦗ
ꦪ
ꦚ
ꦩ
ꦒ
ꦧ
ꦛ
ꦔ
ha
na
ca
ra
ka
da
ta
sa
wa
la
pa
dha
ja
ya
nya
ma
ga
ba
tha
nga
Sample text[edit]
The following is a sample text in Javanese of Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Javanese Latin:[51]
"Sabén uwong kalairaké kanthi mardika lan darbé martabat lan hak-hak kang pådhå. Kabèh pinaringan akal lan kalbu sarta kaajab pasrawungan anggoné mêmitran siji lan sijiné kanthi jiwå sumadulur."
Javanese Carakan (Traditional Script)[52]
"꧋ꦱꦧꦺꦤ꧀ꦲꦸꦮꦺꦴꦁꦚꦭꦲꦶꦫꦏꦺꦏꦤ꧀ꦛꦶꦩꦂꦢꦶꦏꦭꦤ꧀ꦢꦂꦧꦺꦩꦂꦠꦧꦠ꧀ꦭꦤ꧀ꦲꦏ꧀ꦲꦏ꧀ꦏꦁꦥꦝ꧉ ꦏꦧꦼꦃꦥꦶꦤꦫꦶꦔꦤ꧀ꦲꦏꦭ꧀ꦭꦤ꧀ꦏꦭ꧀ꦧꦸꦱꦂꦠꦏꦲꦗꦧ꧀ꦥꦱꦿꦮꦸꦔꦤ꧀ꦲꦁꦒꦺꦴꦤꦺꦩꦼꦩꦶꦠꦿꦤ꧀ꦱꦶꦗꦶꦭꦤ꧀ꦱꦶꦗꦶꦤꦺꦏꦤ꧀ꦛꦶꦗꦶꦮꦱꦸꦩꦢꦸꦭꦸꦂ꧉"
Javanese Pegon
«سابَين أورَوڠ كالائيراكَي كانڟي ألووَار لان داربَي مرتبة لان حق۲ كاڠ ڤاڎا. كابَيه ڤيناريڠان أكال لان كالبو سارتا كاأجاب ڤاسراوُونڠان أڠڮَونَي مَيميتران سيجي لان كانڟي جيوا سومادولور.»‎
Sound sample:
English original:
"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood."
See also[edit]
Indonesia portal
Java
Javanese script
Javanese alphabet
Javanese literature
Banyumasan language
Hans Ras
Johan Hendrik Caspar Kern
References[edit]
Notes[edit]
^ Dyen's "Malayic" differs from the modern established concept of "Malayic" (introduced by Alexander Adelaar). Dyen's Malayic includes Madurese, Acehnese, and Malayan (=Malayic in the modern sense).
^ Sukarno has a Javanese father and a Balinese mother, Habibie has a father of Gorontalo descent and a Javanese mother, while Megawati is Sukarno's daughter through his wife, who is from Bengkulu.
^ The data are taken from the census of 1980 as provided by James J. Fox and Peter Gardiner and published by S. A. Wurm and Shiro Hattori, eds. 1983. Language Atlas of the Pacific Area, Part II: (Insular South-East Asia), Canberra.
^ In 1980 this included the now separate Banten province.
^ The distribution of persons living in Javanese-speaking households in East Java and Lampung requires clarification. For East Java, daily-language percentages are as follows: 74.5 Javanese, 23.0 Madurese, and 2.2 Indonesian. For Lampung, the official percentages are 62.4 Javanese, 16.4 Lampungese and other languages, 10.5 Sundanese, and 9.4 Indonesian. The figures are somewhat outdated for some regions, especially Jakarta; but they remain more or less stable for the rest of Java. In Jakarta the number of Javanese has increased tenfold in the last 25 years. On the other hand, because of the conflict the number of Javanese in Aceh might have decreased. It is also relevant that Banten has separated from West Java province in 2000.
^ Many commuters to Jakarta live in the suburbs in Banten, among them also Javanese speakers. Their exact number is unknown.
^ The aspirated phonemes of Madurese are not reproduced in writing. The 19th-century scribes apparently overlooked the fact that Javanese script does possess the required characters.
^ The Old Javanese spelling is modified to suit Modern Javanese spelling.
^ For example Pigeaud's dictionary in 1939 is almost exclusively based on Surakarta speech (1939:viii–xiii).
Citations[edit]
^ Mikael Parkvall, "Världens 100 största språk 2007" (The World's 100 Largest Languages in 2007), in Nationalencyklopedin
^ a b c "Peraturan Daerah Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta Nomor 2 Tahun 2021 tentang Pemeliharaan dan Pengembangan Bahasa, Sastra, dan Aksara Jawa". Regional Regulation No. 2 of 2021 (in Indonesian). Governor of Special Region of Yogyakarta.
^ Laurie Bauer, 2007, The Linguistics Student's Handbook, Edinburgh
^ "Javanese". Merriam-Webster. Retrieved 1 February 2022.
^ Kewarganegaraan, Suku Bangsa, Agama dan Bahasa Sehari-hari Penduduk Indonesia - Hasil Sensus Penduduk 2010. Badan Pusat Statistik. 2011. ISBN 978-979-064-417-5. Archived from the original on 10 July 2017.
^ "Javanese language". britannica.com. Encyclopedia Britannica. 2010. Retrieved 17 March 2021.
^ Akhyari Hananto (8 December 2017). "121 Years of Javanese People in New Caledonia". Seasia: Good News from Southeast Asia.
^ Dyen 1965, p. 26.
^ Nothofer 2009, p. 560.
^ Nothofer 1975, p. 1.
^ Blust 1981.
^ a b Adelaar 2005a, pp. 357, 385.
^ a b c d e Ogloblin 2005, p. 590.
^ Blust 2010, p. 97.
^ Smith 2017, pp. 443, 453–454.
^ a b c Wedhawati et al. 2006, p. 1.
^ a b c Wedhawati et al. 2006, p. 2.
^ Wedhawati et al. 2006, p. 8.
^ a b c d Ogloblin 2005, p. 591.
^ a b Wedhawati et al. 2006, p. 11.
^ "Peraturan Daerah Provinsi Jawa Tengah Nomor 9 Tahun 2012 tentang Bahasa, Sastra, Dan Aksara Jawa". Regional Regulation No. 9 of 2012 (PDF) (in Indonesian).
^ Villerius, Sophie (2016). "Het Surinaams-Javaans anno 2016". Oso (in Dutch). Vol. 35, no. 2. pp. 276–294 – via Digitale Bibliotheek voor de Nederlandse Letteren.
^ van der Molen 1993, pp. VII–VIII.
^ According to James J. Fox and Peter Gardiner (Wurm & Hattori 1983).
^ Collins Concise Dictionary Plus (1989).
^ Pigeaud 1967, pp. 10–11.
^ Setrowidjojo, Bartje S.; Setrowidjojo, Ruben T. (1994). Het Surinaams-Javaans = Tyoro Jowo-Suriname. Den Haag: Suara Jawa. ISBN 90-802125-1-2.
^ a b c d Brown, Keith; Ogilvie, Sarah (2008). Concise encyclopedia of languages of the world. Elsevier. p. 560. ISBN 9780080877747. Retrieved 24 May 2010. Madurese also possesses aspirated phonemes, including at least one aspirated retroflex phoneme.
^ a b Suharno, Ignatius (1982). A Descriptive Study of Javanese. Canberra: ANU Asia-Pacific Linguistics / Pacific Linguistics Press. pp. 4–6. doi:10.15144/PL-D45. hdl:1885/145095. ISBN 9780858832589.
^ Perwitasari, Arum; Klamer, Marian; Witteman, Jurriaan; Schiller, Niels O. (2017). "Quality of Javanese and Sundanese Vowels". Journal of the Southeast Asian Linguistics Society. 10 (2): 1–9. hdl:10524/52406.
^ Ladefoged, Peter; Maddieson, Ian (1996). The Sounds of the World's Languages. Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN 978-0-631-19815-4.
^ a b Wedhawati; Nurlina, Wiwin Emi Siti; Setiyanto, Edi (2001). Tata Bahasa Jawa Mutakhir [Latest Javanese Grammar] (in Indonesian). Jakarta: Pusat Bahasa, Departemen Pendidikan Nasional Indonesia. ISBN 978-9-79-685141-6.
^ a b Robson, Stuart (2014). Javanese Grammar for Students: A Graded Introduction. Melbourne, Victoria, Australia: Monash University Publishing. ISBN 9781922235374.
^ a b Adelaar 2005b.
^ Piwulang Basa Jawa Pepak, S.B. Pramono, hal 148, Babad Hanacaraka, 2013
^ Zoetmulder 1982, p. IX.
^ Piwulang Basa Jawa Pepak, S.B. Pramono, hal 148, 2013
^ Uhlenbeck 1964, p. 57.
^ a b Wolff, John U.; Soepomo Poedjosoedarmo (1982). Communicative Codes in Central Java. Cornell Southeast Asia Program. p. 4. ISBN 0-87727-116-X.
^ "Jakarta Field Station > Projects > Javanese Dialectology". MPI EVA Jakarta Field Station. Archived from the original on 13 May 2011.
^ a b "Jakarta Field Station > Projects > Javanese Dialectology > Pemalangan Dialect (Pesisir Lor)". MPI EVA Jakarta Field Station. Archived from the original on 14 May 2011.
^ Conners, Thomas J. (26 April 2010). "Standard vs. Peripheral Javanese Dialects: The Lexical Evidence" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 May 2011. Retrieved 23 November 2013.
^ a b "Jakarta Field Station > Projects > Javanese Dialectology > Documentation of Banyumasan". MPI EVA Jakarta Field Station. Archived from the original on 14 May 2011.
^ a b "Jakarta Field Station > Projects > Javanese Dialectology > Madiun – Kediri Dialect". MPI EVA Jakarta Field Station. Archived from the original on 14 May 2011.
^ "Jakarta Field Station > Projects > Javanese Dialectology > Osing Dialect". MPI EVA Jakarta Field Station. Archived from the original on 14 May 2011.
^ Adelaar, Alexander (2011). "Javanese -aké and -akən: A Short History". Oceanic Linguistics. 50 (2): 338–350. doi:10.1353/ol.2011.0024. ISSN 1527-9421.
^ a b Kroon, Sjaak; Yağmur, Kutlay (2012), Meertaligheid in het onderwijs in Suriname [Multilingualism in education in Suriname] (PDF) (in Dutch), Den Haag: Nederlandse Taalunie, ISBN 978-90-70593-19-3
^ a b Gobardhan-Rambocus, Lila; Sarmo, Johan (1993). "Het Surinaams Javaans" [The Javanese Surinamese] (PDF). In Gobardhan-Rambocus, Lila; Hassankhan, Maurits S. (eds.). Immigratie en ontwikkeling : emancipatieproces van contractanten [Immigration and development: emancipation of contractors] (in Dutch). Paramaribo: Anton de Kom Universiteit. pp. 184–201.
^ Villerius, S. E. (2019). Development of Surinamese Javanese: Language contact and change in a multilingual context (Ph.D. thesis). Radboud Universiteit Nijmegen. hdl:2066/199947. ISBN 978-94-6093-313-4.
^ Vruggink, Hein (1990). "De officiële spelling van het Surinaams-Javaans". Oso (in Dutch). Vol. 9, no. 2. pp. 38–40 – via Digitale Bibliotheek voor de Nederlandse Letteren.
^ "OHCHR | Universal Declaration of Human Rights - Javanese". OHCHR. Retrieved 31 January 2023.
^ "Universal Declaration of Human Rights - Javanese (Javanese)". OHCHR. Retrieved 27 May 2023.
Sources[edit]
Adelaar, Karl Alexander (2005a). "Malayo-Sumbawan". Oceanic Linguistics. University of Hawai'i Press. 44 (2): 356–388. doi:10.1353/ol.2005.0027. S2CID 246237112.
Adelaar, Karl Alexander, ed. (2005b). The Austronesian languages of Asia and Madagascar. Routledge language family series. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-7007-1286-1.
Blust, Robert (1981). "The reconstruction of proto-Malayo-Javanic: an appreciation". Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde. 137 (4): 456–459. doi:10.1163/22134379-90003492. JSTOR 27863392.
Blust, Robert (2010). "The Greater North Borneo Hypothesis". Oceanic Linguistics. University of Hawai'i Press. 49 (1): 44–118. doi:10.1353/ol.0.0060. JSTOR 40783586. S2CID 145459318.
Dyen, Isidore (1965). A lexicostatistical classification of the Austronesian languages. Baltimore: Waverly Press.
Nothofer, Berndt (1975). The reconstruction of Proto-Malayo-Javanic. Verhandelingen van het Koninklijk Instituut voor Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde. Vol. 73. Den Haag: Martinus Nijhoff. ISBN 9024717728.
Nothofer, Berndt (2009). "Javanese". In Keith Brown; Sarah Ogilvie (eds.). Concise Encyclopedia of Languages of the World. Oxford: Elsevier. pp. 560–561. ISBN 9780080877747.
Ogloblin, Alexander K. (2005). "Javanese". In K. Alexander Adelaar; Nikolaus Himmelmann (eds.). The Austronesian Languages of Asia and Madagascar. London dan New York: Routledge. pp. 590–624. ISBN 9780700712861.
Pigeaud, Theodore Gauthier Th (1967). Literature of Java. Nijoff.
Smith, Alexander D. (2017). "The Western Malayo-Polynesian Problem". Oceanic Linguistics. University of Hawai'i Press. 56 (2): 435–490. doi:10.1353/ol.2017.0021. S2CID 149377092.
Horne, Elinor C. (1961). Beginning Javanese. New Haven: Yale University Press.
van der Molen, W. (1993). Javaans schrift. Leiden: Vakgroep Talen en Culturen van Zuidoost-Azië en Oceanië. ISBN 90-73084-09-1.
Uhlenbeck, E. M (1964), A critical survey of studies on the languages of Java and Madura, Koninklijk Instituut voor Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde (Netherlands), Martinus Nijhoff, retrieved 18 February 2013
Wedhawati; Nurlina, W. E. S.; Setiyanto, E.; Sukesti, R.; et al. (2006). Tata bahasa Jawa mutakhir [A contemporary grammar of Javanese] (in Indonesian). Yogyakarta: Kanisius. ISBN 9789792110371.[permanent dead link]
Wurm, S. A.; Hattori, Shiro, eds. (1983). Language Atlas of the Pacific Area, Part II: (Insular South-east Asia). Canberra.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Zoetmulder, P. J. (1982). Old Javanese–English Dictionary. 's-Gravenhage: Martinus Nijhoff. ISBN 90-247-6178-6.
Further reading[edit]
Errington, James Joseph (1991), Language and social change in Java : linguistic reflexes of modernization in a traditional royal polity, Ohio University, Center for International Studies, retrieved 18 February 2013
Errington, James Joseph (1998), Shifting languages : interaction and identity in Javanese Indonesia, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-63448-9
Horne, Elinor Clark (1963), Intermediate Javanese, Yale University Press, retrieved 18 February 2013
Horne, Elinor Clark (1974), Javanese-English dictionary, Yale University Press, ISBN 978-0-300-01689-5
Keeler, Ward (1984), Javanese, a cultural approach, Ohio University Center for International Studies, ISBN 978-0-89680-121-9
Robson, S. O. (Stuart Owen); Wibisono, Singgih (2002), Javanese English dictionary, Periplus Editions (HK) ; North Clarendon, VT : Tuttle Pub, ISBN 978-0-7946-0000-6
Robson, S. O. (Stuart Owen); Monash University. Monash Asia Institute (2002), Javanese grammar for students (Rev. ed.), Monash Asia Institute, Monash University, ISBN 978-1-876924-12-6
Robson, S. O. (Stuart Owen); Monash University. Centre of Southeast Asian Studies (1991), Patterns of variation in colloquial Javanese, Centre of Southeast Asian Studies, Monash University, ISBN 978-0-7326-0263-5
Siegel, James T (1986), Solo in the new order : language and hierarchy in an Indonesian city, Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0-691-00085-5
Uhlenbeck, E. M; Koninklijk Instituut voor Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde (Netherlands) (1978), Studies in Javanese morphology, Martinus Nijhoff, ISBN 978-90-247-2162-7
External links[edit]
 Javanese  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Look up Appendix:Javanese Swadesh list in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Javanese.
International Symposium on The Languages of Java (archived 2 December 2013)
Javanese in Suriname strive to preserve origins Jakarta Post article (archived 9 February 2005)
Javanese Writing System
The Javanese alphabet (Unicode A980—A9DF)
Javanese Phonation Types, Consonants
Old Javanese inscriptions
vteJavanese languageOverviews
Language
History
Script
Development
Old Javanese
Middle Javanese
Modern Javanese
Scripts
Kawi
Carakan
Pegon
Latin
Notable variantStandardized
Kawi
Modern Standard Javanese
Regional dialects
Arekan
Malang
Surabaya
Bantenese
Banyumasan
Cirebon
Mataraman
Madiunan
Semarangan
Surakarta
Yogyakarta
New Caledonian
Surinamese
Osing
Tenggerese
Related
Literature
Names
Numerals
Javanese Language Congress
Javanese historical texts
Javanese poetry
Letters of the Aksara JawaNglegenaconsonants
Ha (ꦲ)
Na (ꦤ)
Ca (ꦕ)
Ra (ꦫ)
Ka (ꦏ)
Da (ꦢ)
Ta (ꦠ)
Sa (ꦱ)
Wa (ꦮ)
La (ꦭ)
Pa (ꦥ)
Dha (ꦢ)
Ja (ꦗ)
Ya (ꦪ)
Nya (ꦚ)
Ma (ꦩ)
Ga (ꦒ)
Ba (ꦧ)
Tha (ꦛ)
Nga (ꦔ)
Murdaconsonants
Ka murda (ꦑ)
Ga murda (ꦓ)
Na murda (ꦟ)
Ta murda (ꦡ)
Pa murda (ꦦ)
Ba murda (ꦨ)
Sa murda (ꦯ)
Seldom used: Ca murda (ꦖ)
Nya murda (ꦘ)
Extendedconsonants
Often used: Pa cerek (ꦉ)
Nga lelet (ꦊ)
Seldom used: Nga lelet Raswadi (ꦋ)
Ra agung (ꦬ)
Ka sasak (ꦐ)
Ja mahaprana (ꦙ)
Tha mahaprana (ꦜ)
Dha mahaprana (ꦞ)
Da mahaprana (ꦣ)
Sa mahaprana (ꦰ)
Final and MedialConsonants
Cecak (ꦁ)
Layar (ꦂ)
Wignyan/visarga (ꦃ)
Cakra (ꦿ)
Cakra keret (ꦽ)
Pengkal (ꦾ)
Pangkon/virama (꧀)
Vowels
Wulu (ꦶ)
Suku (ꦸ)
Pepet (ꦼ)
Taling (ꦺ)
Tarung (ꦴ)
Tolong (ꦵ)
Dirga mure (ꦻ)
Wulu melik (ꦷ)
Suku mendut (ꦹ)
Foreign: A (ꦄ)
I (ꦆ)
U (ꦈ)
E (ꦌ)
Ai (ꦍ)
O (ꦎ)
Numbers
0 (꧐)
1 (꧑)
2 (꧒)
3 (꧓)
4 (꧔)
5 (꧕)
6 (꧖)
7 (꧗)
8 (꧘)
9 (꧙)
Pada pangkat (꧇)
Punctuations
Pada lingsa (꧈)
Pada lungsi (꧉)
Pada adeg (꧊)
Pada adeg-adeg (꧋)
Pada piseleh (꧌ and ꧍)
Pada luhur (꧅)
Pada madya (꧄)
Pada andhap (꧃)
Pada tirta tumetes (꧞)
Pada isen-isen (꧟)
Pada windu (꧆)
Pangrangkep (ꧏ)
Cecak telu (꦳)
Panyangga (ꦀ)
Rerenggan (꧁ and ꧂)
Links to related articles
vteLanguages of IndonesiaWestern languagesMalayo-Sumbawan
Indonesian
Slang
Acehnese
Balinese
Bamayo
Banjarese
Boyanese
Duano'
Haji
Iban
Kangean
Kendayan
Keninjal
Kubu
Lubu
Loncong
Madurese
Malay
Anambas-Natuna
Bangka
Bengkulu
Berau
Col/Lembak
Jambi
Kaur
Jaring Halus
Kerinci
Kutai
Palembang-Musi
Pekal
Pontianak
Riau
Minangkabau
Mualang
Sasak
Seberuang
Sumbawan
Sundanese
Baduy
Bantenese
Javanese
Javanese
Banyumasan
Osing
Tenggerese
Kawi 
Celebic
Andio
Bada
Bahonsuai
Balaesang
Balantak
Banggai
Batui
Behoa
Boano
Bobongko
Bonerate
Bungku
Busoa
Cia-Cia
Dampelas
Dondo
Kalao
Kaili
Kaimbulawa
Kamaru
Kodeoha
Kulisusu
Kumbewaha
Lasalimu
Laiyolo
Lauje
Liabuku
Mbelala
Moronene
Mori Bawah
Mori Atas
Moma
Muna
Napu
Padoe
Pancana
Pendau
Rahambuu
Rampi
Saluan
Sarudu
Sedoa
Pamona
Taje
Tajio
Tukang Besi
Tolaki
Tomadino
Topoiyo
Tomini
Totoli
Uma
Waru
Wawonii
Wolio
Wotu
Lampungic
Komering
Lampung
Northwest Sumatra–Barrier Islands
Batak
Alas
Batak Angkola
Batak Dairi
Batak Karo
Batak Mandailing
Batak Simalungun
Batak Toba
Enggano
Gayo
Mentawai
Nias
Simeulue
Sikule
South Sulawesi
Aralle-Tabulahan
Bambam
Bentong
Budong-Budong
Buginese
Campalagian
Coastal Konjo
Dakka
Duri
Embaloh
Enrekang
Highland Konjo
Kalumpang
Lemolang
Maiwa
Makassarese
Malimpung
Mamasa
Mamuju
Mandar
Panasuan
Pannei
Selayar
Seko Padang
Seko Tengah
Tae’
Talondo’
Taman
Toraja-Sa’dan
Ulumanda’
Barito
Ampanang
Bakumpai
Bajaw 
Deyah
Kohin
Lawangan
Ma'anyan
Malang
Ngaju
Ot Danum
Sama 
Ot Siang
Tunjung
Witu
Pakau
Kayan–Murik
Aoheng
Aput
Bahau
Hovongan
Kayan
Krio
Modang
Punan Merah
Segai
Land Dayak
Bakati’
Biatah
Bukar Sadong
Jangkang
Kembayan
Laraʼ
Nyadu’
Rejangese
Ribun
Sanggau
Sara
Semandang
Beginci
Gerai
Tringgus
North Bornean
Bah-Biau
Basap
Bukat
Bukitan
Kelabit
Kenyah
Mainstream
Lengilu
Lun Bawang
Murut
Okolod
Selungai
Sembakung
Tagol
Punan Merap
Punan Tubu
Sa'ban
Sajau
Tidung
Burusu
Kalabakan
Nonukan
Philippine languagesCentral Philippine
Tausug
Gorontalo-Mongondow
Bintauna
Bolango
Buol
Gorontaloan
Kaidipang
Lolak
Mongondow
Ponosakan
Suwawa
Minahasan
Tombulu
Tondano
Tonsawang
Tonsea
Tontemboan
Sangiric
Bantik
Ratahan
Sangirese
Talaud
Central-Eastern languagesAru
Barakai
Batuley
Dobel
Karey
Koba
Kola-Kompane
Lola
Lorang
Manombai
Mariri
Tarangan
Ujir
Central Maluku
Alune
Amahai
Ambelau
Asilulu
Banda
Bati
Benggoi
Boano
Bobot
Buru
Geser
Haruku
Hitu
Hoti
Huaulu
Hulung
Kaibobo
Kamarian
Kowiai
Laha
Larike-Wakasihu
Latu
Liana-Seti
Lisabata-Nuniali
Lisela
Loun
Luhu
Mangole
Manipa
Manusela
Masiwang
Naka'ela
Nuaulu
Nusa Laut
Paulohi
Salas
Saleman
Saparua
Seit-Kaitetu
Sepa-Teluti
Sula
Taliabo
Teor-Kur
Tulehu
Watubela
Wemale
Yalahatan
Flores–Lembata
Alorese
Kedang
Lamaholot
 Adonara 
 Ile Ape 
 Lamalera 
 Lamatuka 
 Levuka 
 Lewo Eleng 
 Lewotobi 
 South Lembata 
 West Lembata 
Sika
Halmahera-Cenderawasih
Ambai
Ambel 
Ansus
Arguni
As
Bedoanas
Biak
Biga 
Buli
Busami
Dusner
Erokwanas
Gane 
Irarutu
Iresim
Kuri
Kurudu
Maba 
Maden 
Matbat 
Ma'ya
Munggui
Marau
Meoswar
Mor
Papuma
Patani 
Pom
Roon
Sawai 
Serui-Laut
Taba 
Tandia
Wabo
Wamesa 
Wandamen
Waropen
Woi
Yaur
Yeretuar
Yeresiam 
Kei-Tanimbar
Fordata
Kei
Onin
Sekar
Uruangnirin
Yamdena
Selaru
Selaru
Seluwasan
Sumba–Flores
Anakalangu
Baliledo
Bima
Dhao
Ende
Gaura
Hawu
Kambera
Kéo
Kodi
Komodo
Lamboya
Lio
Mamboru
Manggarai
Nage
Ngadha
Palu'e
Pondok
Rajong
Rembong
Riung
Rongga
So'a
Kepo'
Wae Rana
Wanukaka
Wejewa
Timor–Babar
Amarasi
Bekais
Bilba
Dai
Dawera-Daweloor
Dela-Oenale
Dengka
East Damar
Emplawas
Galoli
Helong
Imroing
Kemak 
Kisar
Leti
Lole
Luang
Masela
Nila
North Babar
Ringgou
Romang
Serili
Serua
Southeast Babar
Tela'a
Termanu
Tetum
Te'un
Tii
Uab Meto
West Damar
Welaun 
Wetar
Western Oceanic
Anus
Bonggo
Kayupulau
Liki
Masimasi
Ormu
Podena
Kaptiau
Sobei
Tarpia
Tobati
Wakde
Yamna
Papuan languagesNorth Halmahera
Galela
Gamkonora
Loloda
Modole
Pagu
Sahu
Tabaru
Ternate
Tidore
Tobelo
Waioli
West Makian
Timor–Alor–Pantar
Abui
Adang
Blagar
Bunak
Kaera
Kafoa
Kamang
Klon
Kui
Kula
Nedebang
Oirata
Retta
Sawila
Teiwa
Wersing
Western Pantar
Woisika 
Asmat–Mombum
Buruwai
Casuarina Coast Asmat
Central Asmat
North Asmat
Citak 
Mombum 
Kamberau
Kamoro
Koneraw 
Sempan 
West Bird's Head
Kalabra
Kuwani
Moi
Moraid
Seget
Tehit
South Bird's Head
Arandai
Dombano 
Duriankari
Inanwatan
Kaburi
Kais
Kemberano
Kokoda 
Konda
Kovojab 
Puragi
Yahadian
East Bird's Head
Hatam
Mansim
Meyah
Moskona
Sougb
West Bomberai
Baham
Iha
Karas
Dani
Grand Valley Dani
Hupla
Nduga
Nggem
Silimo
Walak
Wano
Western Dani
Yali
Paniai Lakes
Auye
Dao
Ekari
Moni
Wolani
Digul River
Aghu 
Awbono 
Bayono 
Densar 
Edera
Jair
Kombai
Komyandaret 
Korowai 
Mandobo 
Pisa 
Sawi 
Shiaxa 
Tsaukambo 
Wambon
Foja Range
Airoran
Bagusa
Berik 
Betaf 
Bonerif 
Dabe 
Dineor 
Edwas 
Gresi
Isirawa 
Itik 
Kapori 
Kauwera
Keijar 
Kemtuik
Kwerba 
Kwerba Mamberamo
Kwesten 
Kwinsu 
Mander
Massep 
Mawes 
Mekwei 
Mlap
Namblong 
Nimboran 
Orya 
Sause 
Oksapmin
Samarokena
Trimuris 
Vitou 
Lakes Plain
Awera
Biritai 
Doutai 
Duvle 
Eritai 
Fayu 
Foau 
Iau 
Kaiy 
Keuw 
Kirikiri 
Kwerisa 
Obokuitai 
Papasena 
Rasawa 
Sikaritai 
Tause 
Taworta 
Waritai 
East Cenderawasih Bay
Baropasi 
Bauzi 
Burate 
Demisa 
Kofei 
Nisa-Anasi
Sauri 
Tefaro 
Tunggare 
Woria
Yawa 
Saweru 
Yawa 
Demta–Sentani
Demta 
Nafri
Sentani
Tabla
Ok
Burumakok 
Faiwol 
Iwur 
Kopka 
Muyu 
Nakai 
Ngalum 
Ninggerum 
Tangko 
Tifal 
Yonggom 
Momuna–Mek
Eipo 
Goliath 
Ketengban 
Kosarek 
Korupun 
Nalca 
Nipsan 
Somahai 
Skou 
Skou
South Pauwasi
Biksi-Yetfa
Kimki 
Lepki 
Murkim 
East Pauwasi
Emem 
Zorop 
West Pauwasi
Namla 
Tebi 
Tofanma 
Towei 
Usku 
Kaure–Kosare
Kaure 
Kosare 
Marind–Yaqai
Bipim 
Marind 
Yaqay 
Bulaka River
Maklew 
Yelmek 
Kayagar 
Atohwaim 
Kayagar 
Tamagario 
Border
Awyi 
Elseng 
Taikat 
Manem
Sowanda 
Viid
Waris 
Senagi 
Dera 
Mairasi 
Mairasi 
Mer 
Semimi 
Kolopom 
Kimaghama 
Morori 
Ndom 
Riantana 
Yam
Ngkolmpu Kanum
Rema 
Smerki 
Tamer 
Yei 
Lower Mamberamo
Warembori 
Yoke 
Others
Abinomn 
Abun
Amung 
Burmeso
Dem 
Kanum
Maklew
Maybrat
Molof 
Momina
Mor 
Mpur
Other languagesCreoles and PidginsMalay-based creoles
Alor Malay
Ambonese Malay
Bandanese Malay
Bacanese Malay
Balinese Malay
Betawi
Gorap
Gorontaloan Malay
Kupang Malay
Larantuka Malay
Manado Malay
Makassar Malay
North Moluccan Malay
Papuan Malay
Peranakan
Serui Malay
Other creoles and pidgins
Javindo
Petjo
Mardijker
Pidgin Iha
Pidgin Onin
Portugis
Bidau Creole Portuguese
Immigrant languagesChinese
Cantonese
Hakka
Fujianese
Hokkien
Medan
Riau
Tiochiu
Hainanese
Hinghwa
Fuzhounese
Mandarin
European
Dutch
English
Portuguese
Indian
Bengali 
Gujarati 
Odia
Pali 
Punjabi 
Sanskrit
Sindhi 
Tamil
Telugu 
Urdu
Middle Eastern
Arabic
Hadhrami Arabic
Modern Standard Arabic
Persian
Others
Filipino 
Japanese 
Korean
Sign languages
Indonesian Sign Languages
Kata Kolok
vte Languages of MalaysiaMainOfficial
Malaysian
English
comparison with British English
Families
Austroasiatic
Aslian
Austronesian
North Bornean
Kayan–Murik
Land Dayak
Malayic
Philippine
Sama–Bajaw
Tai-Kadai
Tai
Natives &IndigenousNationwide
Malay
PeninsularMalaysia
Batek
Cheq Wong
Duanoʼ
Jah Hut
Jahai
Jakun
Jedek
Judeo-Malay2
Kedah Malay
Kelantan-Pattani Malay
Kenaboi1
Kensiu
Kintaq
Kristang
Lanoh
Mah Meri
Minriq
Mintil
Negeri Sembilan Malay
Mos
Orang Kanaq
Orang Seletar
Pahang Malay
Perak Malay
Reman Malay
Sabüm1
Semai
Semaq Beri
Semelai
Semnam
Southern Thai
Temiar
Temoq2
Temuan
Terengganu Malay
Wila'1
EastMalaysia
Abai
Bahau
Bajau
Belait
Berawan
Biatah
Bintulu
Bonggi
Bookan
Bruneian/Kedayan Malay
Brunei Bisaya
Bukar–Sadong
Bukitan
Coastal Kadazan
Daro-Matu
Dumpas
Dusun
Eastern Kadazan
Ganaʼ
Iban
Ida'an
Jagoi
Jangkang
Kajaman
Kalabakan
Kanowit
Kayan
Kelabit
Kendayan
Keningau Murut
Kinabatangan
Kiput
Klias River Kadazan
Kota Marudu Talantang
Kuijau
Lahanan
Lelak1
Lengilu1
Lotud
Lun Bawang
Mainstream Kenyah
Melanau
Momogun
Murik Kayan
Narom
Nonukan Tidong
Okolod
Paluan
Papar
Punan Bah-Biau
Punan Batu2
Penan
Remun
Sa'ban
Sabah Bisaya
Sama
Sarawak Malay
Sebop
Sekapan
Selungai Murut
Sembakung
Seru1
Serudung
Sian
Sungai
Tagol
Timugon
Tombonuwo
Tring
Tringgus
Tutoh
Ukit2
Umaʼ Lasan
SignificantminorityChinese
Sino-Tibetan
Yue
Cantonese
Malaysian Cantonese
Hakka
Min
Eastern Min
Fuqing
Fuzhou
Hainanese
Pu-Xian Min
Southern Min
Hokkien
Southern Peninsular Malaysian Hokkien
Penang Hokkien
Chaoshan Min
Teochew
Mandarin Chinese
Malaysian Mandarin
Indian
Dravidian
Malayalam
Tamil
Malaysian Tamil
Telugu
Indo-European
Gujarati
Hindi
Punjabi
Urdu
Indonesianarchipelago
Acehnese
Banjar
Baweanese
Buginese
Javanese
Kerinci
Mandailing
Minangkabau
Rawa
Philippine
Philippine
Iranun
Maranao
Molbog
Suluk
Creoles
Chavacano
Kristang
Manglish
Malay trade and creole languages
Baba Malay
Chetty Malay
Cocos Malay
Sabah Malay
Mixed & Others
Rojak
Tanglish
Esperanto
Immigrants
African
Arab
Bangladeshi
Burmese
Cambodian
East Timorese
Filipino
Indonesian
comparison with Malaysian
Iranian
Japanese
Korean
Laotian
Nepalese
Pakistani
Sri Lankan
Thai
Vietnamese
SignsMain
Malaysian Sign Language
Manually Coded Malay
By states
Penang Sign Language
Selangor Sign Language
1 Extinct languages
2 Nearly extinct languages
vteLanguages of the NetherlandsOfficial
Dutch (national)
English
West Frisian
Papiamento
Non-official
Ambonese
Arabic
Indonesian
Javanese
Limburgish
Low Saxon
Minangkabau
Ripuarian
Romani
Yiddish
Sign language
Dutch Sign Language
vteLanguages of New CaledoniaOfficial language
French
IndigenouslanguagesNewCaledonianNorthern
Caac
Cèmuhî
Drehu
Fwâi
Haveke
Iaai
Jawe
Kumak
Nemi
Nengone
Nyâlayu
Paicî
Pije
Pwaamei
Pwapwâ
Vamale
Yuanga
Southern
Ajië
Arhâ
Arhö
Ndrumbea
Neku
Numèè
Orowe
Sîchë
Tîrî
Xârâcùù
Xârâgurè
Other
Haeke
Polynesian
West Uvean
Non-indigenouslanguage
Javanese
vteLanguages of SingaporeMain languagesNational
Malay
Official
English
Malay
Mandarin
Tamil
Indigenous languages
Johor-Riau Malay
Orang Seletar
Creole languages
Baba Malay
Bazaar Malay
Chitty Malay
Kristang
Singlish
Singdarin
Immigrant languagesChinese
Sinitic
Cantonese
Hainanese
Hakka
Henghwa
Hokchew
Hokkien
Teochew
Indian
Dravidian
Malayalam
Telugu
Indo-Aryan
Bengali
Gujarati
Hindi
Punjabi
Sindhi
Sinhala
Indonesian
Acehnese
Banjarese
Batak
Angkola
Mandailing
Toba
Baweanese
Buginese
Javanese
Minangkabau
Other
Arabic
Armenian
Burmese
Filipino
Japanese
Korean
Nepali
Thai
Vietnamese
Sign languages
Singaporean Sign Language
vteLanguages of Sri LankaOfficial languages
Sinhala
Tamil
Others
Sri Lankan Tamil
Sri Lankan English1
Sri Lankan Malay
Pali2
Sri Lankan Portuguese Creole
Vedda
Sri Lankan sign languages
Formerly spoken and extinct
Arwi
Ceylon Dutch
Rodiya3
1Recognized as a "link" language 2a liturgical language 3a dialect of Sinhala
vteLanguages of SurinameOfficial language
Dutch
Regional languages
Aukan
Caribbean Hindustani
Chinese
English
Javanese
Kwinti
Saramaccan
Sranan Tongo
Indigenous languages
Akurio
Arawak
Carib
Mawayana
Sikiana
Trió
Waiwai
Warao
Wayana
vteAustronesian languagesFormosan languagesRukaic
Rukai
Tsouic
Tsou
Kanakanavu
Saaroa
NorthernAtayalic
Atayal
Seediq
NorthwestFormosan
Saisiyat
Pazeh †
Kulon †
Thao
Babuza
Favorlang †
Papora-Hoanya †
EastKavalanic
Basay †
Kavalan
Luilang †
Ami
Amis
Sakizaya
Siraiyac
Siraya †
Taivoan †
Southern ?
Puyuma
Paiwan
Bunun
Malayo–PolynesianWestern branches of Malayo–PolynesianPhilippine(linkage) ?Batanic (Bashiic)
Itbayat
Ivatan
Yami
Northern Luzon
Arta
Dicamay Agta †
Ilocano
Cagayan Valley
Atta
Cagayan Agta
Ga'dang
Gaddang
Ibanag
Isnag
Itawis
Yogad
Meso-Cordilleran
Northern Alta
Southern Alta
Central Cordilleran
Balangao
Bontoc
Ifugao
Isinai
Itneg
Kalinga
Kankanaey
Tuwali
Southern Cordilleran
Bugkalot
Ibaloi
Iwaak
Kalanguya
Karao
Pangasinan
Central Luzon
Kapampangan
Hatang Kayi (Remontado)
Sambalic
Abellen
Ambala
Mag-antsi
Bolinao
Botolan
Mag-indi
Mariveleño
Sambal
Northern Mindoro
Alangan
Iraya
Tadyawan
Greater CentralPhilippineSouthern Mindoro
Buhid
Hanunoo
Tawbuid
Central PhilippineTagalogic
Filipino
Kasiguranin
Tagalog
Old Tagalog †
Batangueño
Bikol
Albay Bikol
Central Bikol
Isarog Agta
Mount Iraya Agta
Mount Iriga Agta
Pandan Bikol
Rinconada
Bisayan
Akeanon
Asi
Bantayanon
Baybay
Butuanon
Caluyanon
Capiznon
Cebuano
Boholano
Old Cebuano †
Cuyonon
Hiligaynon
Kabalian
Karay-a
Karolanos
Magahat
Masbateño
Northern Sorsogon
Onhan
Porohanon
Ratagnon
Romblomanon
Southern Sorsogon
Sulod
Surigaonon
Tausug
Waray
Mansakan
Davawenyo
Kalagan
Kamayo
Mamanwa
Mandaya
Mansaka
(unclassified)
Ata †
Palawanic
Aborlan Tagbanwa
Batak
Central Tagbanwa
Palawano
Taaw't Bato
Subanen
Western Subanon
Danao
Iranun
Maguindanao
Maranao
Manobo
Agusan
Ata Manobo
Binukid
Cotabato Manobo
Higaonon
Ilianen
Kagayanen
Kamigin
Matigsalug
Obo
Sarangani
Tagabawa
Western Bukidnon
Gorontalo–Mongondow
Bintauna
Bolango
Buol
Gorontalo
Kaidipang
Lolak
Mongondow
Ponosakan
Suwawa
Kalamian
Agutaynen
Calamian Tagbanwa
Bilic
Blaan
Tboli
Teduray
Sangiric
Bantik
Ratahan
Sangirese
Talaud
Minahasan
Tombulu
Tondano
Tonsawang
Tonsea
Tontemboan
Other branches
Ati
Klata
Umiray Dumaget
Manide–Alabat
Inagta Alabat
Manide
Greater Barito *Barito
Malagasy
Bushi
Deyah
Malang
Witu
Balangan
Ma'anyan
Paku
Lawangan
Kohin
Dohoi
Siang
Bakumpai
Ngaju
Ampanang
Tunjung
Sama–Bajaw
Abaknon
Bajaw
Mapun
Pangutaran Sama
Sama
West Coast Bajaw
Yakan
Basap *GreaterNorth Borneo *North Borneo *Northeast Sabah *
Ida'an
Bonggi
Molbog ?
Southwest Sabah *GreaterDusunic *Bisaya–Lotud
Brunei Bisaya
Lotud
Dusunic
Kadazandusun
Central Dusun
Coastal Kadazan
Kuijau
Eastern Kadazan
Kota Marudu Talantang
Rungus / Momogun
Klias River Kadazan
Paitanic
Tombonuwo
Kinabatangan
Abai Sungai
Serudung
GreaterMurutic *
Tatana ?
Papar
Murutic
Tagol
Timugon
Keningau
Selungai
Sembakung
Baukan
Okolod
Paluan
Ganaʼ
Kalabakan
Nonukan Tidong
Sesayap Tidong
North Sarawak *
Kenyah / Bakung
Sebob
Tutoh
Umaʼ Lasan
Wahau Kenyah
Penan ?
Kelabit
Lengilu
Lundayeh
Sa'ban
Tring
Berawan
Belait
Kiput
Narom
Tutong
Bintulu
Central Sarawak
Kajaman
Lahanan
Sekapan
Daro-Matu
Kanowit–Tanjong
Melanau
Bukitan
Punan Batu
Sian
Ukit
Burusu
Bah-Biau Punan
Sajau
Punan Merap
Bukat
Seru †
Lelak †
Kayanic
Kayan
Bahau
Modang
Segai
Hovongan
Aoheng
Aput
Punan
Krio Dayak
Murik
Land Dayak
Bakatiʼ
Sara
Laraʼ
Bukar–Sadong
Biatah
Tringgus
Jagoi
Jangkang
Kembayan
Semandang
Ribun
Benyaduʼ
Sanggau
Malayo–Chamic *Aceh–Chamic
Acehnese
Cham dialects
Chru
Haroi
Jarai
Rade
Roglai
Tsat
Iban–MalayanIbanic
Iban
Keninjal ?
Mualang
Remun
Seberuang
Malay
Malaysian
Indonesian
Minangkabau
Brunei/Kedayan Malay
Bamayo
Banjar
Berau Malay
Bangka Malay
Bengkulu
Col
Duanoʼ
Haji
Jambi Malay
Jakun
Kedah Malay
Kendayan / Selako ?
Kutai Malay
Kaur
Kerinci
Kelantan-Pattani Malay
Kubu
Orang Laut
Lubu
Musi
Negeri Sembilan Malay
Orang Kanaq
Orang Seletar
Pahang Malay
Pekal
Perak Malay
Pontianak Malay
Reman Malay
Sarawak Malay
Temuan
Terengganu Malay
Urak Lawoi'
Sundanese
Sundanese
Old Sundanese †
Baduy
Bantenese
Cirebonese
Rejang ?
Rejang
Moklenic ?
Moken
Moklen
Sumatran *Northwest Sumatra–Barrier Islands
Enggano ?
Gayo
Mentawai
Nias
Sikule
Simeulue
Batak
Alas
Angkola
Dairi
Karo
Simalungun
Toba
Mandailing
Nasal ?
Lampungic
Lampung
Lampung Nyo
Lampung Api
Komering
Javanese
Javanese
Kawi / Old Javanese †
Banyumasan
Osing
Tenggerese
Madurese
Madurese
Kangean
Bali–Sasak–Sumbawa
Balinese
Sasak
Sumbawa
CelebicBungku–Tolaki
Bahonsuai
Bungku
Kodeoha
Kulisusu
Moronene
Mori Bawah
Mori Atas
Padoe
Rahambuu
Tolaki
Tomadino
Waru
Wawonii
Muna–Buton
Bonerate
Busoa
Cia-Cia
Kaimbulawa
Kumbewaha
Lasalimu
Liabuku
Muna
Pancana
Tukang Besi
Saluan–Banggai
Andio
Balantak
Banggai
Batui
Bobongko
Saluan
Tomini–Tolitoli *
Balaesang
Boano ?
Dampelas
Dondo
Lauje
Pendau
Taje
Tajio
Tomini
Totoli ?
Kaili–Wolio *Kaili–Pamona
Kaili
Mbelala
Moma
Pamona
Rampi
Sarudu
Sedoa
Topoiyo
Uma
Wotu–Wolio
Kalao
Kamaru
Laiyolo
Ledo Kaili *
Wolio
Wotu
South SulawesiBugis
Buginese
Campalagian
Embaloh ?
Taman
Makassaric
Makassarese
Bentong
Coastal Konjo
Highland Konjo
Selayar
Seko–Badaic *Seko
Budong-Budong
Panasuan
Seko Padang
Seko Tengah
Badaic *
Bada
Behoa
Napu
Northern
Mamuju
Mandar
Massenrempulu
Duri
Enrekang
Maiwa
Malimpung
Pitu Ulunna Salu
Aralle-Tabulahan
Bambam
Dakka
Pannei
Ulumandaʼ
Toraja
Kalumpang
Mamasa
Pattae'
Lawa
Talondoʼ ?
Toraja-Saʼdan
Lemolang
Isolates
Chamorro
Palauan
Central Malayo-Polynesian languagesBima
Bima
Sumba–FloresSumba–HawuSavu
Hawu
Dhao
Sumba
Kambera
Mamboru
Anakalangu
Wanukaka
Pondok
Baliledo
Wejewa
Lamboya
Kodi
Gaura
Western Flores
Komodo
Manggarai
Riung
Rembong
Rajong
Kepoʼ
Wae Rana
Palu'e
Ende
Lio
Nagé-Kéo
Ngadha
Rongga
Soʼa
Flores–Lembata
Sika
Kedang
Lamaholot
Lamaholot
Alorese
Lamatuka
Lewo Eleng
Levuka
South Lembata
Lamalera
Lewotobi
Adonara
Ile Ape
Mingar
Selaru
Selaru
Seluwasan
Kei–Tanimbar ?
Kei
Fordata
Yamdena
Onin
Sekar
Uruangnirin
Aru
Barakai
Batuley
Dobel
Karey
Koba
Kola
Lola
Lorang
Manombai
Mariri
Tarangan
Ujir
Timoric *
Helong
Tetum
Uab Meto
Amarasi
Central Timor *
Kemak
Tukudede
Mambai
Bekais
Wetar–Galoli ?
Wetar
Galoli
Kawaimina
Kairui
Waimoa
Midiki
Naueti ?
Habun ?
Luangic–Kisaric ?
Romang
Kisar
Leti
Luang
Makuva
Rote–Meto *
Bilba
Dengka
Lole
Ringgou
Dela-Oenale
Termanu
Tii
Babar
Idalaka
West Damar
Dawera-Daweloor
North Babar
Dai
Masela
Serili
Southeast Babar
Emplawas
Imroing
Telaʼa
Southwest Maluku
East Damar
Teun
Nila
Serua
Kowiai ?
Kowiai
Central Maluku *
Teor-Kur
West
Ambelau
Buru
Lisela
Hukumina †
Moksela †
Sula
Mangole
Taliabo
East
Banda
Bati
Geser
Watubela
Bobot
Masiwang
Hoti †
Benggoi
Salas
Liana
Nunusaku
Kayeli †
Nuaulu
Huaulu
Manusela
Wemale
Yalahatan
Piru Bay ?
Asilulu
Luhu
Manipa
Wakasihu
Boano
Sepa-Teluti
Paulohi
Kaibobo
Hitu
Tulehu
Laha
Seit-Kaitetu
Kamarian †
Haruku
Amahai
Nusa Laut
Saparua
Latu
Eastern Malayo-Polynesian languagesSHWNG
Tandia †
Mor
Waropen
Warembori ?
Yoke ?
Halmahera SeaAmbel–Biga
Ambel
Biga
Maya–Matbat
Ma'ya
Matbat
Maden
Maden
Fiawat
As
As
South Halmahera
Gane
Taba
Buli
Maba
Patani
Sawai
Gebe
CenderawasihBiakic
Biak
Dusner †
Meoswar
Roon
Yapen
Ambai
Ansus
Marau
Wamesa
Wooi
Munggui
Papuma
Pom
Serui-Laut
Kurudu
Wabo
Southwest
Yaur
Yerisiam
Umar
OceanicAdmiralty
Yapese ?
Eastern
Manus
Baluan-Pam
Lenkau
Lou
Nauna
Penchal
Western
Northern Kaniet †
Southern Kaniet †
Seimat
Wuvulu
Aua
Saint Matthias
Mussau-Emira
Tenis
TemotuUtupua
Amba
Asumboa
Tanimbili
Vanikoro
Teanu
Lovono
Tanema
Reefs–Santa Cruz
Äiwoo
Engdewu / Nanggu
Natügu / Santa Cruz
Nalögo
Noipx
SoutheastSolomonicGela–Guadalcanal
Bugotu
Gela
Lengo
Birao
Ghari
Malango
Talise
Malaita–San Cristobal
Longgu
Sa'a
Arosi
Fagani
Bauro
Kahua
Owa
Marau Wawa ? †
Toʼabaita
Baelelea
Baeggu
Fataleka
Lau
Kwara'ae
Wala
Gula'alaa
Kwaio
Dori'o
ꞋAreꞌare
Oroha
WesternOceanicMeso–MelanesianWillaumez
Bola
Bulu
Meramera
Nakanai
Bali-Vitu
Bali
Vitu
New Ireland–NorthwestSolomonicTungag–Nalik
Kara
Laxudumau
Nalik
Tiang
Tigak
Tungag
Tabar
Lihir
Madara
Notsi
Madak
Barok
Lavatbura–Lamusong
Madak
St. George
Bilur
Fanamaket
Guramalum †
Kandas
Konomala
Label
Lungalunga
Niwer Mil
Patpatar
Ramoaaina
Siar
Sursurunga
Tangga
Tolai
NorthwestSolomonic
Babatana
Bannoni
Blablanga
Cheke Holo
Gao
Ghanongga
Hahon
Hakö
Halia
Hoava
Kazukuru †
Kokota
Kusaghe
Laghu †
Lungga
Marovo
Mono-Alu
Nduke
Nehan
Papapana
Petats
Piva
Ririo
Roviana
Saposa
Simbo
Solos
Teop
Tinputz
Torau
Ughele
Uruava †
Vaghua
Vangunu
Varisi
Zabana
Zazao
Tomoip
NorthNew GuineaSarmi–Jayapura ?
Anus
Bonggo
Kayupulau
Liki
Masimasi
Ormu
Podena
Kaptiau
Sobei
Tarpia
Tobati
Wakde
Yamna
Schouten
Arop-Sissano
Sera
Sissano
Ulau-Suain
Tumleo
Yakamul
Kaiep
Kairiru
Terebu
Biem
Kis
Manam
Medebur
Sepa
Wogeo
Huon Gulf
Bukawa
Kela
Yabem
Aribwatsa †
Aribwaung
Adzera
Dangal
Duwet
Labu
Maralango
Mari
Musom
Nafi
Silisili
Wampar
Wampur
Hote
Iwal
Kapin
Kumalu
Mangga Buang
Mapos Buang
Mumeng
Piu
Vehes
Yamap
Numbami
Ngero–Vitiaz
Bariai
Gitua
Kove
Lusi
Malalamai
Mutu
Awad Bing
Bilibil
Gedaged
Marik
Matukar
Mindiri
Takia
Wab
Lamogai
Mouk-Aria
Aigon
Karore
Kaulong †
Miu
Sengseng
Aiklep
Akolet
Apalik
Avau
Bebeli
Gimi
Lesing-Gelimi
Mangseng
Solong
Lote
Mamusi
Mengen
Arop-Lukep
Karnai
Malasanga
Mur Pano
Mato
Ronji
Amara
Maleu
Mbula
Sio
Tami
Papuan TipNuclear
ʼAuhelawa
Buhutu
Bwanabwana
Oya'oya
Saliba
Suau
Unubahe
Wagawaga
Bwaidoka
Diodio
Iamalele
Iduna
Koluwawa
Maiadomu
Bunama
Boselewa
Dobu
Duau
Galeya
Molima
Mwatebu
Sewa Bay
Dawawa
Kakabai
Are
Arifama-Miniafia
Doga
Gapapaiwa
Ghayavi
Kaninuwa
Ubir
Gweda
Haigwai
Maiwala
Minaveha
Taupota
Tawala
Yakaikeke
Anuki
Gumawana
Kilivila–Misima
Budibud
Kilivila
Misima
Muyuw
Nimoa–Sudest
Nimoa
Sudest
SouthernOceanicNorthVanuatuTorres–Banks
Dorig
Hiw
Koro
Lakon
Lehali
Lemerig
Lo-Toga
Löyöp
Mota
Mwerlap
Mwesen
Mwotlap
Nume
Olrat
Vera’a
Volow
Vurës
Maewo–Ambae–North Pentecost
Baetora
Duidui
Northeast Ambae
Raga
Sun̄wadaga
Sun̄wadia
South Pentecost
Apma
Sa
Ske
Sowa †
Espiritu Santo
Akei
Aore †
Araki
Cape Cumberland
Nokuku
Kiai
M̈av̈ea
Merei-Tiale
Mores
Sakao
Shark Bay
Tamambo
Tangoa
Tasiriki
Tolomako
Tutuba
Wusi
NuclearSouthernOceanicCentral Vanuatu
North Efate
Nafsan
Efatese
Eton
Lelepa
Makura
Daakaka
Dalkalaen
Lonwolwol
Paamese
Port Vato
Southeast Ambrym
Epi
Baki
Bierebo
Bieria
Lamen
Lewo
Maii
Malakula
Aulua
Avava
Aveteian
Axamb
Big Nambas
Botovro
Burmbar
Bwenelang
Larëvat
Lendamboi
Litzlitz
Malfaxal
Malua Bay
Maskelynes
Nahavaq
Nasarian
Nasvang
Nāti
Navwien
Nese
Neve'ei
Neverver
Ninde
Nisvai
Nitita
Port Sandwich
Rerep
Sörsörian
Tape
Tirax
Unua
Northeast Malakula
Vao
Vivti
Rutan
Alovas
Najit
Njav
South VanuatuErromango
Erromanga / Sie
Sorung †
Ura
Utaha / Ifo †
Tanna
Kwamera / South Tanna
Lenakel / West Tanna
North Tanna
Southwest Tanna
Whitesands / East Tanna
Aneityum
Loyalties–New CaledoniaLoyalty Islands
Drehu
Iaai
Nengone
New CaledonianSouthern
Ajië
Arhâ
Arhö
Ndrumbea
Neku
Numèè
Orowe
Tîrî
Xârâcùù
Xârâgurè
Zire †
Northern
Bwatoo
Caac
Cèmuhî
Fwâi
Haeke
Haveke
Hmwaveke
Jawe
Kumak
Nemi
Nyâlayu
Paicî
Pije
Pwaamei
Pwapwâ
Vamale
Waamwang †
Yuanga
Micronesian
Nauruan
NuclearMicronesian
Gilbertese
Kosraean
Marshallese
Chuukic–PohnpeicChuukic
Carolinian
Chuukese
Mapia †
Mortlockese
Namonuito
Pááfang
Puluwatese
Satawalese
Sonsorol
Tanapag
Tobian
Ulithian
Woleaian
Pohnpeic
Mokilese
Ngatikese
Pingelapese
Pohnpeian
CentralPacificWest
Namosi-Naitasiri-Serua
Rotuman
Western Fijian
East
Fijian
Gone Dau
Lauan
Lomaiviti
PolynesianNuclearPolynesian
Kapingamarangi
Nuguria
Nukumanu
Nukuoro
Ontong Java
Sikaiana
Takuu
Tuvaluan
Samoic
Niuatoputapu †
Samoan
Tokelauan
Eastern
Austral
Cook Islands Māori
Hawaiian
Mangareva
Māori
Moriori †
Marquesan
Penrhyn
Rakahanga-Manihiki
Rapa
Rapa Nui
Tahitian
Tuamotuan
Futunic
Anuta
Emae
Futuna-Aniwa / West Futunan
Futunan / East Futunan
Mele-Fila
Pukapukan
Rennellese
Tikopia
Wallisian / East Uvean
West Uvean
Tongic
Niuafoʻou ?
Niuean
Tongan
* indicates proposed status ? indicates classification dispute† indicates extinct status
Authority control: National 
Germany
Latvia
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Javanese_language&oldid=1171381820"
Categories: Javanese languageLanguages attested from the 9th centuryMalayo-Polynesian languagesAgglutinative languagesLanguages of IndonesiaLanguages of MalaysiaLanguages of SurinameSubject–verb–object languagesHidden categories: CS1 Indonesian-language sources (id)CS1 Dutch-language sources (nl)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse American English from April 2021All Wikipedia articles written in American EnglishUse dmy dates from April 2021Articles containing Javanese-language textArticles with unnamed Glottolog codeLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles citing NationalencyklopedinAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2019Articles to be expanded from September 2022All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxesWikipedia articles needing page number citations from July 2023Articles to be expanded from July 2023Articles containing Malay (macrolanguage)-language textArticles with unsourced statements from April 2023All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from March 2023Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1 maint: location missing publisherArticles with GND identifiersArticles with LNB identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 20 August 2023, at 19:57 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width