Echo: A new notification system for Wikipedia – Diff
 
Skip to content
 
Diff
Categories
Equity & Inclusion
Education & Open Access
Technology
Partnerships & Events
Policy & Advocacy
Movement Strategy
About
Submit
Calendar
Wikimania 2023
 
Choose a language
English
Search 
Echo: A new notification system for Wikipedia 
7 February 2013 by Fabrice Florin 
Translate This Post
Notifications inform you of important events and invite you to take quick action.
How can our users learn about events that affect them, so they can contribute more productively to MediaWiki sites like Wikipedia?
In this post, we’d like to introduce a new notifications system called Echo, now under development by the Wikimedia Foundation’s editor engagement team to address this question.
Echo aims to inform users of important events that relate to them, and help them take action more easily. To that end, we aim to provide a modern notifications system with a more unified user experience than what exists today on MediaWiki sites.
Here’s a quick overview of our plans for this editor engagement project.
Key features
Echo was designed to be simple and easy to use: if you have new notifications, a red badge appears next to your name, at the top right of any page. Click on that badge to see a fly-out listing your most recent notifications.
Notifications are associated with different types of events, such as “You have a message”, “Your edit was reverted” or “A page you started was reviewed”.
To see all your notifications from previous days, you can visit a personal archive page. You can also change your user preferences to control which types of events you’d like to be notified about, and/or request email notifications.
To learn more about Echo features, check out our project slides and feature requirements.
Next steps
An early beta version is now being tested on MediaWiki.org, and you can try it out here.
We plan to release a first beta version on the English Wikipedia by the end of March. For this first release, we are focusing on a limited number of notifications — most of them will benefit new users who are not yet familiar with how Wikipedia works. In addition, the release will include some internationalization support, along with the hooks necessary for adding notifications through extensions.
In future releases, we aim to provide more notifications and advanced features for experienced users, as well as develop an external API for notifications. Over time, this product is expected to replace and augment existing notification systems on MediaWiki sites, as well as provide significantly more control to both users and developers as to how their notifications are handled, read, and deleted.
Join us
If you are a developer and would like to contribute to the purpose-driven social experiment that is Wikipedia, we invite you to help us write Echo and other editor engagement features by participating in the project as a volunteer, or perhaps even joining our team: we are looking to hire a Software Engineer to work specifically on Editor Engagement features like Echo.
If you are up to the challenge, we encourage you to apply. Be a part of a great team that’s building new tools for the editors who create the sum of all human knowledge.
In collaboration with our community, we look forward to releasing this new notification system in coming months, to help engage millions of MediaWiki users over time.
Fabrice Florin, Product Manager
Ryan Kaldari, Lead Engineer
Terry Chay, Director of Features Engineering
Wikimedia Foundation’s Editor Engagement Team
Archive notice: This is an archived post from blog.wikimedia.org, which operated under different editorial and content guidelines than Diff.
 
Can you help us translate this article?
In order for this article to reach as many people as possible we would like your help. Can you translate this article to get the message out?
Start translation
Related
 
6 Comments                    
 Inline Feedbacks
View all comments
 

    Y.A.

    10 years ago
#19387
Shouldn’t the title be ‘for MediaWiki’? Don’t forget that most people reading your technology blog, are, well, more likely to be people who host their own instances of MediaWiki – the Wikimedi’a Foundation flagship* product.
* And only product? I think everything else you publish revolves around MediaWiki.
0

    Echo, el nuevo sistema de notificaciones de Wikipedia

    10 years ago
#19388
[…] Vía Wikimedia Blog […]
0

    Martha Forsyth

    10 years ago
#19389
And this applies to…WikiMedia?  Wikipedia (as the title says)?  ???  Sounds interesting but I can’t tell if it relates to me or not!
0

    Épisode 6 | Les échos d'en bas

    10 years ago
#19390
[…] Echo: A new notification system for Wikipedia ■ POTY 2012 : vous pouvez voter parmi les 44 images retenues (2èm tour) ■ Signpost : […]
0

    Épisode 6 – Annonces de décès | Les échos d'en bas

    10 years ago
#19391
[…] Echo: A new notification system for Wikipedia ■ POTY 2012 : vous pouvez voter parmi les 44 images retenues (2èm tour) ■ Signpost : […]
0

    Cross-wiki notifications unite a world of messages in one window – Wikimedia blog

    7 years ago
#19392
[…] about activity on other wikis. Long before the introduction of the current notifications system (in 2013), users have been shown a notice when they had a message on their user talk page. A bug asking for […]
0
 
Meta
Posted in Editor engagement, TechnologyTagged Echo, Wikimedia Blog (EN Archive) 
Related
 
Welcome to Diff
Welcome to Diff, a community blog by – and for – the Wikimedia movement. Join Diff today to share stories from your community and comment on articles. We want to hear your voice!
Learn more
Subscribe to Diff via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to Diff and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address
Subscribe
 
Upcoming Events
Sep
15
15 September @ 10:00 - 17 September @ 17:00  UTC  
Wikimedia CEE Meeting 2023
Organizer: 
Wikimedia Georgia
Oct
6
15:00 - 16:00  UTC  
Event Series
Let’s Connect Connectathon
Organizer: 
Let's Connect working group
Oct
20
20 October @ 03:30 - 22 October @ 10:30  UTC  
WikiWomenCamp 2023
Organizer: 
Chinmayee Mishra & Manavpreet Kaur
View Calendar
Wikimedia News
Wikimedia Foundation News
Wikimania 2023 in Singapore centers on diversity, collaboration, and the future of free knowledge10 August 2023 by Wikimedia Foundation
Wikimedia Technology Blog
Flame graphs arrive in WikimediaDebug8 June 2023 by Timo Tijhof
Down the Rabbit Hole
Wikipedia’s value in the age of generative AI12 July 2023 by Selena Deckelmann
 
Diff This is Diff, a Wikimedia community blog.
All participants are responsible for building a place that is welcoming and friendly to everyone. Learn more about Diff.
A Wikimedia Foundation Project
Links 
Join
Subscribe
Guidelines
Editorial guidelines
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Log in
Content licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 (CC-BY-SA) unless otherwise noted.
Powered by WordPress.com VIP, Automattic Privacy Notice. 
wpDiscuzInsert 
  Report this comment
This comment is spam 
This comment is a violation of the Code of Conduct 
Other 
Send
 
 
You are going to send email to SendMove CommentMove