Turkmen language - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Classification
2Comparison with other Turkic languages
Toggle Comparison with other Turkic languages subsection
2.1Turkmen vs. Azerbaijani
2.2Turkmen vs. Turkish
3Phonology
4Writing system
5Grammar
Toggle Grammar subsection
5.1Directives and Speech levels
6Literature
7Vocabulary
Toggle Vocabulary subsection
7.1Numbers
7.2Colors
7.3Basic expressions
8Example
9Turkmen in Iran
10Notes
11Further reading
12References
Toggle References subsection
12.1Bibliography
13External links
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Turkmen language
110 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛअंगिकाАԥсшәаالعربيةAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)БългарскиBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaCorsuDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFiji HindiFrançaisGaeilgeGagauzGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡქართულიҚазақшаIkinyarwandaКомиKotavaKurdîКыргызчаLatinaLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayu閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄МонголNederlands日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаپنجابیپښتوPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQaraqalpaqshaQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусскийᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤScotsSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeTürkmençeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng Việt吴语Yorùbá粵語ZazakiŽemaitėška中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Oghuz Turkic language of Central Asia
Not to be confused with Turkish language or Iraqi Turkmen § Language.
Turkmentürkmençe, türkmen dili,түркменче, түркмен дили,تۆرکمن ديلی ,تۆرکمنچهTurkmen in the Latin, Cyrillic, and Perso-Arabic AlphabetsNative toTurkmenistan, Russia, Iran, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Pakistan [1][2]EthnicityTurkmensNative speakers11 million[3] (2009–2015)[4]Language familyTurkic
Common TurkicOghuzEastern OghuzTurkmenDialects
Trukhmen
Writing systemLatin (Official, Turkmen alphabet), Perso-Arabic, CyrillicTurkmen BrailleOfficial statusOfficial language in TurkmenistanLanguage codesISO 639-1tkISO 639-2tukISO 639-3tukGlottologturk1304LinguaspherePart of 44-AAB-aThe distribution of the Turkmen language in Central AsiaThis article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA.
Turkmen (türkmençe, түркменче, تۆرکمنچه, [tʏɾkmøntʃø][5] or türkmen dili, түркмен дили, تۆرکمن ديلی, [tʏɾkmøn dɪlɪ]),[6] sometimes referred to as "Turkmen Turkic" or "Turkmen Turkish",[7][8][9][10] is a Turkic language spoken by the Turkmens of Central Asia. It has an estimated 5 million native speakers in Turkmenistan (where it is the official language), and a further 719,000 speakers in northeastern Iran[11] and 1.5 million people in northwestern Afghanistan,[12] where it has no official status. Turkmen is also spoken to lesser varying degrees in Turkmen communities of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan and by diaspora communities, primarily in Turkey and Russia.[13][14][15]
Turkmen is a member of the Oghuz branch of the Turkic languages. It is closely related to Azerbaijani, Crimean Tatar, Gagauz, Qashqai, and Turkish, sharing varying degrees of mutual intelligibility with each of those languages.[16] However, the closest language of Turkmen is considered Khorasani Turkic, spoken in northeastern regions of Iran and with which it shares the eastern subbranch of Oghuz languages, as well as Khorazm, the Oghuz dialect of Uzbek language spoken mainly in Khorezm along the Turkmenistan border.[17] Elsewhere in Iran, the Turkmen language comes second after the Azerbaijani language in terms of the number of speakers of Turkic languages of Iran.[18]
The standardized form of Turkmen (spoken in Turkmenistan) is based on the Teke dialect, while Iranian Turkmen use mostly the Yomud dialect, and Afghan Turkmen use the Ersary variety.[19] The Turkmen language, unlike other languages of the Oghuz branch, preserved most of the unique and archaic features of the language spoken by the early Oghuz Turks, including phonemic vowel length.[20]
Turkmen people should not be confused with the unrelated Iraqi and Syrian "Turkmen" people, who speak dialects that form a continuum between Turkish and Azerbaijani, in both cases heavily influenced by Arabic. These varieties are not Turkmen in the sense of this article.
Classification[edit]
Areas where modern Oghuz languages are spoken
Turkmen is a member of the East Oghuz branch of the Turkic family of languages; its closest relatives being Turkish and Azerbaijani, with which it shares a relatively high degree of mutual intelligibility. However, the closest language of Turkmen is considered Khorasani Turkic with which it shares the eastern subbranch of Oghuz languages and Khorazm, spoken mainly in northwestern Uzbekistan.[17]
Turkmen has vowel harmony, is agglutinative and has no grammatical gender. Word order is subject–object–verb.
Written Turkmen today is based on the Teke (Tekke) dialect. The other dialects are Nohurly, Ýomud, Änewli, Hasarly, Nerezim, Gökleň, Salyr, Saryk, Ärsary and Çowdur. The Teke dialect is sometimes (especially in Afghanistan) referred to as "Chagatai", but like all Turkmen dialects it reflects only a limited influence from classical Chagatai.
Comparison with other Turkic languages[edit]
Turkmen has dental fricatives /θ/ and /ð/ unlike other Oghuz Turkic languages, where these sounds are pronounced as /s/ and  /z/. The only other Turkic language with a similar feature is Bashkir. However, in Bashkir /θ/ and /ð/ are two independent phonemes, distinct from /s/ and /z/, whereas in Turkmen [θ] and [ð] are the two main realizations of the common Turkic /s/ and /z/. In other words, there are no /s/ and /z/ phonemes in Turkmen, unlike Bashkir, which has both /s/ and /z/ and /θ/ and /ð/.
Turkmen vs. Azerbaijani[edit]
The 1st person personal pronoun is "men" in Turkmen, just as "mən" in Azerbaijani, whereas it is "ben" in Turkish. The same is true for demonstrative pronouns "bu", where sound "b" is replaced with sound "m". For example: "bunun>munun//mının, muna//mına, munu//munı, munda//mında, mundan//mından".[21] In Turkmen, "bu" undergoes some changes just as in: "munuñ, munı, muña, munda, mundan".[22]
Here are some words with a different pronunciation in Turkmen and Azerbaijani that mean the same in both languages:[23]
Turkmen
Azeri
English
men
mən
I, me
sen
sən
you
haçan
haçan
when
başga
başqa
other
it, köpek
it, köpək
dog
deri
dəri
skin, leather
ýumurtga
yumurta
egg
ýürek
ürək
heart
eşitmek
eşitmək
to hear
Turkmen vs. Turkish[edit]
Turkey was first to recognize Turkmenistan's independence on 27 October 1991, following the Dissolution of the Soviet Union and to open its Embassy in Ashgabat on 29 February 1992. Sharing a common history, religion, language and culture, the two states have balanced special relations based on mutual respect and the principle of "One Nation, Two States".[24]
Turkmen language is very close to Turkish with regard to linguistic properties. However, there are a couple of differences due to regional and historical reasons. Most morphophonetic rules are common in Turkmen and Turkish languages. For instance, both languages show vowel harmony and consonant mutation rules, and have similar suffixes with very close semantics.[3]
Here are some words from the Swadesh list in Turkmen and Turkish that mean the same in both languages:
Turkmen
Turkish
English
men
ben
I, me
uzyn
uzun
long
agaç
ağaç
tree
göz
göz
eye
ýürek
yürek
heart
ýaşamak
yaşamak
to live
suw
su
water
asman[fn 1]
gök
sky
dogry
doğru
correct
^ (loaned from Persian)
Phonology[edit]
Main article: Turkmen grammar § Phonology
Vowels[25]
Front
Back
Unrounded
Rounded
Unrounded
Rounded
Close
ɪ ɪː
ʏ ʏː
ɯ ɯː
ʊ ʊː
Mid
ɛ
œ œː
o oː
Open
æː
ɑ ɑː
Consonants[25]
Labial
Dental
Alveolar
Palatal
Velar
Glottal
Nasal
m
n
ŋ
Stop/Affricate
voiceless
p
t
tʃ
k
voiced
b
d
dʒ
ɡ
Fricative
voiceless
θ
ʃ
h
voiced
ð
Approximant
w
l
j
Tap
ɾ
Writing system[edit]
Main article: Turkmen alphabet
Turkmen written language was formed in the 13–14th centuries.[26] During this period, the Arabic alphabet was used extensively for writing. By in the 18th century, there had been a rich literary tradition in the Turkmen language. At the same time, the literacy of the population in their native language remained at low levels; book publishing was extremely limited, and the first primer in the Turkmen language appeared only in 1913, while the first newspaper ("Transcaspian native newspaper") was printed in 1914.[27]
The Arabic script was not adapted to the phonetic features of the Turkic languages. Thus, it did not have necessary signs to designate specific sounds of the Turkmen language, and at the same time there were many letters to designate Arabic sounds that were not in the Turkmen language.
During the first years after the establishment of the Soviet power, the Arabic alphabet of Turkmen under the USSR was reformed twice, in 1922 and 1925. In the course of the reforms, letters with diacritics were introduced to denote Turkic phonemes; and letters were abolished for sounds that are absent in the Turkmen language.[28]
The Turkmens of Afghanistan and Iran continue to use Arabic script.[26]
In January 1925, on the pages of the republican newspaper Türkmenistan, the question of switching to a new, Latin alphabet was raised. After the first All-Union Turkological Congress in Baku (February–March 1926), the State Academic Council under the People's Commissariat of Education of the Turkmen SSR developed a draft of a new alphabet. On January 3, 1928, the revised new Latin alphabet was approved by the Central Executive Committee of the Turkmen SSR.
At the end of the 1930s, the process of the Cyrillization of writing began throughout the USSR. In January 1939, the newspaper "Sowet Türkmenistany" published a letter from teachers in Ashgabat and the Ashgabat region with an initiative to replace the Turkmen (Latin) script with Cyrillic. The Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Turkmen SSR instructed the Research Institute of Language and Literature to draw up a draft of a new alphabet. The teachers of the Ashgabat Pedagogical Institute and print workers also took part in the development of the new writing system. In April 1940, the draft alphabet was published.
In May 1940, the Council of People's Commissars of the Turkmen SSR adopted a resolution on the transition to a new alphabet of all state and public institutions from July 1, 1940, and on the beginning of teaching the new alphabet in schools from September 1 of the same year.[28]
After the Dissolution of the Soviet Union, in January 1993, a meeting was held at the Academy of Sciences of Turkmenistan on the issue of replacing the Cyrillic with the Latin alphabet, at which a commission was formed to develop the alphabet. In February, a new version of the alphabet was published in the press. On April 12, 1993, the Mejlis of Turkmenistan approved a presidential decree on the new alphabet.[29]
Grammar[edit]
Main article: Turkmen grammar
Turkmen is a highly agglutinative language, in that much of the grammar is expressed by means of suffixes added to nouns and verbs. It is very regular compared with many other languages of non-Turkic group. For example, obalardan "from the villages" can be analysed as oba "village", -lar (plural suffix), -dan (ablative case, meaning "from"); alýaryn "I am taking" as al "take", -ýar (present continuous tense), -yn (1st person singular).
Another characteristic of Turkmen is vowel harmony. Most suffixes have two or four different forms, the choice between which depends on the vowel of the word's root or the preceding suffix: for example, the ablative case of obalar is obalardan "from the villages" but, the ablative case of itler "dogs" is itlerden "from the dogs".
Declension examples (with vowel length)
Case
Example
Consonant-ending nouns
Vowel-ending nouns
With consonant voicing
With vowel deletion
sygyr
ner
öý
ýara
gije
doly
köpek
ogul
Nominative
Sygyr yzyna geldi.
sygyr
ner
öý
ýara
gije
doly
köpek
ogul
Accusative
Men sygyry sagdym.
sygyry
neri
öýi
ýarāny
gijǟni
dolȳny
köpegi
ogly
Genitive
Men sygyryň guýrugyny çekdim.
sygyryň
neriň
öýüň
ýarānyň
gijǟniň
dolȳnyň
köpegiň
ogluň
Dative
Men sygyra iým berdim.
sygyra
nere
öýe
ýarā
gijǟ
dola
köpege
ogla
Locative
Sygyrda näme günä bar?
sygyrda
nerde
öýde
ýarada
gijede
doluda
köpekde
ogulda
Ablative
Bu kesel sygyrdan geçdi. Men sygyrdan ýadadym.
sygyrdan
nerden
öýden
ýaradan
gijeden
doludan
köpekden
oguldan
Directives and Speech levels[edit]
Levels of respect or formality are focused on final suffix of commands while in normal sentences adding -dyr can add to formality.
Usage
Suffix
Example
Note
Positive
Negative
Positive
Negative
Neutral
-Ø[iň]
-ma[:ň]
bar[yň]
barma[:ň]
offensive if used to elders without -ň(plural marker).
Familiar
-sana
-masana
gelsene
gelmesene
common between friends.
Polite
-gyn
-magyn
goýgyn
goýmagyn
respectful but insistent on request.
Polite request(suggestive)
-a:ý[yň]
-ma:ý[yň] / -a:ýma[:ň]
gidäý
gitmäý[iň]/gidäýmäň
-ma:ý[yň] simply suggests not doing while -a:ýma[:ň] increases respect to the addressee .
Formal Polite
-saňyzla:[ň]
-masaňyzla:[ň]
gaýtsaňyzla:[ň]
gaýtmasaňyzla:[ň]
Respectful request
-i:ber[iň]
-i:bermä[:ň]
aýdyber
aýdybermä[:ň]
more common when the requested action is imminent.
Highly polite
-a:wer[i]
-ma:wer[i] / -a:werma[:ň]
edäweri
etmäweri / edäwermäň
used when talking to and elder, ruler or praying.
Polite command
-saňyz
-masaňyz
alsaňyz
almasaňyz
Highly polite suggestion
-a:ýsyňyz
-ma:ýsyňyz
ýaza:ýsyňyz
ýazma:ýsyňyz
Hortative
-a:ýyn
-ma:ýyn
gidäýin
gitmäýin
eg. let me go /not go (if used as question it means like '' shall i go?/not go?""
Cohortative
-a:ly[:ň]
-ma:ly[:ň]
başla:ly[:ň]
başlama:ly[:ň]
-:ň is used if the addressee is more than two people otherwise it isnt used.
3rd p. directive
-syn[lar]
-masyn[lar]
bolsun[lar]
bolmasyn[lar]
used in wishes or indirect commands.
Literature[edit]
Magtymguly Pyragy on the commemorative coin of Turkmenistan
Main article: Turkmen literature
Turkmen literature comprises oral compositions and written texts in Old Oghuz Turkic and Turkmen languages. Turkmens are direct descendants of the Oghuz Turks, who were a western Turkic people that spoke the Oghuz branch of the Turkic language family.
The earliest development of the Turkmen literature is closely associated with the literature of the Oghuz Turks.[30]
Turkmens have joint claims to a great number of literary works written in Old Oghuz and Persian (by Seljuks in 11-12th centuries) languages with other people of the Oghuz Turkic origin, mainly of Azerbaijan and Turkey. These works include, but are not limited to the Book of Dede Korkut, Gorogly, Layla and Majnun, Yusuf Zulaikha and others.[31]
There is general consensus, however, that distinctively modern Turkmen literature originated in the 18th century with the poetry of Magtymguly Pyragy, who is considered the father of the Turkmen literature.[32][33] Other prominent Turkmen poets of that era are Döwletmämmet Azady (Magtymguly's father), Nurmuhammet Andalyp, Abdylla Şabende, Şeýdaýy, Mahmyt Gaýyby and Gurbanally Magrupy.[34]
Vocabulary[edit]
Numbers[edit]
Number
Turkmen
Number
Turkmen
0
nol
10
on
1
bir
20
ýigrimi
2
iki
30
otuz
3
üç
40
kyrk
4
dört
50
elli
5
bäş
60
altmyş
6
alty
70
ýetmiş
7
ýedi
80
segsen
8
sekiz
90
togsan
9
dokuz
100
ýüz
1000
müň
Note: Numbers are formed identically to other Turkic languages, such as Turkish. So, eleven (11) is "on bir" (lit. 'ten-one'). Two thousand seventeen (2017) is iki müň on ýedi (two-thousand-ten-seven).
Colors[edit]
English
Turkmen
black
gara
blue
gök
brown
goňur, mele
grey
çal
green
ýaşyl
orange
narynç, mämişi
pink
gülgün
purple
benewşe, melewşe
red
gyzyl
white
ak
yellow
sary
Basic expressions[edit]
English
Turkmen
yes
hawa
no
ýok
goodbye
sag boluň, hoş galyň
good morning
ertiriňiz haýyrly bolsun, ertiriňiz haýyr
good evening
agşamyňyz haýyrly bolsun, agşamyňyz haýyr
good night
gijäňiz rahat bolsun
please
haýyş, -aý/-äý[a]
thank you
sag boluň, sagbol
Do you speak English?
Siz iňlisçe gürläp bilýärsiňizmi?
I don't speak Turkmen
Men türkmençe gürlemeýärin
What does it mean?
Bu nämäni aňladýar?, Ol näme diýmek?
Example[edit]
The following is Magtymguly's Türkmeniň (of the Turkmen) poem with the text transliterated into Turkmen (Latin) letters, whereas the original language is preserved. Second column is the poem's Turkish translation, third one is the Azerbaijani translation, while the last one is the English translation. 
Turkmen[35]
Turkish[36]
Azerbaijani
English[35]
Jeýhun bilen bahry-Hazar arasy,
Çöl üstünden öwser ýeli türkmeniň;
Gül-gunçasy – gara gözüm garasy,
Gara dagdan iner sili türkmeniň.
Ceyhun ile Bahr-ı Hazar arası,
Çöl üstünden eser yeli Türkmen'in.
Gül goncası kara gözüm karası,
Kara dağdan iner seli Türkmen'in.
Ceyhun ilə Bəhri-Xəzər arası,
Çöl üstündən əsər yeli türkmənin.
Gül qönçəsi qara gözüm qarası,
Qara dağdan enər seli türkmənin.
Between the Jeyhun and the Khazar sea,
Over the desert blows the breeze of the Turkmen.
Its rose-bud is the pupil of my black eye
From the dark mountain descends the river of the Turkmen.
Hak sylamyş bardyr onuň saýasy,
Çyrpynşar çölünde neri, maýasy,
Reňbe-reň gül açar ýaşyl ýaýlasy,
Gark bolmuş reýhana çöli türkmeniň.
Hak sıylamış vardır onun sayesi,
Çırpınışır çölünde eri, dişisi.
Rengarenk gül açar yeşil yaylası,
Gark olmuş reyhana çölü Türkmen'in.
Haqq saya salmış vardır onun sayəsi,
Çırpınışar çölündə əri, dişisi.
Rəngbərəng gül açar yaşıl yaylası,
Qərq olmuş reyhana çölü türkmənin.
The Lord has exalted him and placed him under His protection.
His camels, his flocks range over the desert,
Flowers of many hues open on his green summer pastures,
Drenched in the scent of basil the desert of the Turkmen.
Al-ýaşyl bürenip çykar perisi,
Kükeýip bark urar anbaryň ysy,
Beg, töre, aksakal ýurduň eýesi,
Küren tutar gözel ili türkmeniň.
Al yeşil bürünüp çıkar perisi
Kükeyip bark vurup amberin isi,
Bey, töre, aksakal yurdun iyesi,
Küren tutar güzel ili Türkmen'in.
Al-yaşıl bürünüb çıxar pərisi
Qoxub bərq vurar ənbərin iy(is)i,
Bəy, turə, ağsaqqal yurdun yiyəsi,
Kürən tutar gözəl eli türkmənin.
His fairy-maids go forth clad in red and green,
From them wafts the scent of ambergris,
Bek, prince and the elder are the lords of the country,
Together they uphold the beautiful land of the Turkmen.
Ol merdiň ogludyr, mertdir pederi,
Görogly gardaşy, serhoşdyr seri,
Dagda, düzde kowsa, saýýatlar, diri
Ala bilmez, ýolbars ogly türkmeniň.
O merdin oğludur, merttir pederi,
Köroğlu kardeşi, sarhoştur seri,
Dağda, düzde kovsa avcılar diri
Alamaz arslan oğlu Türkmen'in.
O mərdin oğludur, mərddir pedəri,
Koroğlu qardaşı, sərxoşdur səri,
Dağda, düzdə qovsa səyyadlar (ovçular) diri
Ala bilməz arslan oğlu türkmənin.
He is the son of a hero – a hero his father,
Göroghli his brother, drunken his head,
Should they pursue him on mountain or plain,
The hunters cannot take him alive, this panther's son is the Turkmen
Köňüller, ýürekler bir bolup başlar,
Tartsa ýygyn, erär topraklar-daşlar,
Bir suprada taýýar kylynsa aşlar,
Göteriler ol ykbaly türkmeniň.
Gönüller, yürekler bir olup başlar,
Tartsa yığın erir topraklar, taşlar,
Bir sofrada hazır kılınsa aşlar,
Götürülür o ikbali Türkmen'in.
Könüllər, ürəklər bir olub başlar,
Dartsa yığın əriyər topraqlar, daşlar,
Bir süfrədə hazır qılınsa aşlar,
Götürülər o iqbalı türkmənin.
Hearts, breasts and heads are at one,
When he holds a gathering earth and mountains crumble.
When food is prepared at one table,
Exalted is the destiny of the Turkmen
Köňül howalanar ata çykanda,
Daglar lagla döner gyýa bakanda,
Bal getirer, joşup derýa akanda,
Bent tutdurmaz, gelse sili türkmeniň.
Gönül havalanır ata çıkanda,
Dağlar la'le döner dönüp bakanda,
Bal getirir coşup derya akanda,
Bent vurdurmaz, gelse, seli Türkmen'in.
Könül havalanar ata çıxanda,
Dağlar lələ dönər qıyıb baxanda,
Bal gətirər coşub dərya axanda,
Bənd tutdurmaz, gəlsə seli türkmənin.
His heart rejoices as he mounts his horse,
At his glance the mountains turn to rubies,
The sea overflows, bringing him honey 
It will not be contained when it comes, the river of the Turkmen.
Gapyl galmaz, döwüş güni har olmaz,
Gargyşa, nazara giriftar olmaz,
Bilbilden aýrylyp, solup, saralmaz,
Daýym anbar saçar güli türkmeniň.
Gafil kalmaz dövüş günü har olmaz,
Kargışa, nazara giriftar olmaz,
Bülbülden ayrılıp, solup sararmaz,
Daim amber saçar, gülü Türkmen'in.
Qafil qalmaz, döyüş günü xar olmaz,
Qarğışa, nəzərə giriftar olmaz,
Bülbüldən ayrılıb, solub saralmaz,
Daim ənbər saçar, gülü türkmənin.
On the day of battle he is not caught unaware,
He is captured neither by curse nor evil eye,
It is not deprived of its nightingale, does not wilt or wither,
Always smelling of musk is the rose of the Turkmen.
Tireler gardaşdyr, urug ýarydyr,
Ykballar ters gelmez hakyň nurudyr,
Mertler ata çyksa, söweş sarydyr,
Ýow üstüne ýörär ýoly türkmeniň.
Tireler kardeştir, uruk yaridir,
Ikballer ters gelmez, Hakk'ın nurudur,
Mertler ata çıksa savaş yarıdır,
Yağı üstüne yürür yolu Türkmen'in.
Tirələr qardaşdır, uruq yarıdır,
İqballar tərs gəlməz, Haqqın nurudur,
Mərdlər ata çıxsa savaşdan sarıdır,
Yağı üstünə yeriyər yolu türkmənin.
The tribes are brothers, clans are good friends,
Fate does not oppose him, he is the God's light
When heroes mount their horses, facing the battle,
Toward the foe goes the road of the Turkmen
Serhoş bolup çykar, jiger daglanmaz,
Daşlary syndyrar, ýoly baglanmaz,
Gözüm gaýra düşmez köňül eglenmez,
Magtymguly – sözlär tili türkmeniň.
Sarhoş olup çıkar ciğer dağlanmaz,
Taşları parçalar, yolu bağlanmaz,
Gözüm gayre düşmez, gönül eğlenmez,
Mahtumkulu söyler dili Türkmen'in.
Sərxoş olub çıxar, ciyər dağlanmaz,
Daşları sındırar, yolu bağlanmaz,
Gözüm qeyrə düşməz, könül əylənməz,
Məxdumqulu söylər dilin türkmənin.
He sets out in high spirits, sorrow feels not,
He smashes through rocks, his way is not blocked
My eyes alight on none else, nor will my heart rejoice elsewhere,
Magtymguly speaks in the tongue of the Turkmen.
Turkmen in Iran[edit]
Turkmens in Iran speak a dialect of Turkmen in the province of Golestan.[37]  It is mutually intelligible with the Turkmen dialects in Afghanistan, and are written in the Nastaliq script.[38]
Notes[edit]
^ -aý/-äý are verb suffixes, which can be seen in "Maňa beräý!" (please give it to me).
Further reading[edit]
Nicholas Awde; William Dirks; A. Amandurdyev (2005). Turkmen: Turkmen-English, English-Turkmen Dictionary & Phrasebook. Hippocrene Books. ISBN 978-0-7818-1072-2.
References[edit]
^ Ethnic composition, language and citizenship of the population of the Republic of Tajikistan, Volume III (in Russian)
^ Ethnic Turkmen of Tajikistan Preserve Traditions of Their Ancestors
^ a b Ahmet Cuneyd Tantug. A MT System from Turkmen to Turkish Employing Finite State and Statistical Methods. Istanbul Technical University. 2008. p.2
^ Turkmen at Ethnologue (21st ed., 2018) 
^ Clark, Larry (1998). Turkmen Reference Grammar. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz Verlag. p. 527.
^ Clark, Larry (1998). Turkmen Reference Grammar. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz Verlag. p. 521.
^ Gökçür, Engin (2015). "Upon Common Word Existance [sic] of Turkmen Turkish and Turkey's Turkish Dialects". The Journal of International Social Research. 8 (36): 135. doi:10.17719/jisr.2015369495.
^ Kara, Mehmet. Türkmen Türkleri Edebiyatı (The Literature of the Turkmen Turks), Türk Dünyası El Kitabı, Türk Kültürünü Araştırma Enstitüsü Yayınları, Ankara 1998, pp. 5–17
^ Gökçür, Engin (2015). "Phonetic Events in Turkmen Turkish's Consonants of Words taken from Arabic and Persian". Turkish Studies. 10 (12): 429–448. doi:10.7827/TurkishStudies.8602.
^ Kara, Mehmet. Türkmen Türkçesi Grameri (The Grammar of the Turkmen Turkish Language), Istanbul, 2012. Etkileşim Yayınları, pp. 1–10
^ "Iran". Ethnologue.
^ Turkmen language at Ethnologue (18th ed., 2015) (subscription required)
^ "Where and how do the Turkmens abroad live? (in Russian)". Information Portal of Turkmenistan.
^ Project, Joshua. "Turkmen in Pakistan". joshuaproject.net. Retrieved 2022-07-16.
^ "Turkmen". Ethnologue. Retrieved 2022-07-16.
^ Sinor, Denis (1969). Inner Asia. History-Civilization-Languages. A syllabus. Bloomington. pp. 71–96. ISBN 0-87750-081-9.
^ a b Brown, Keith (2010). Concise Encyclopedia of Languages of the World. Elsevier. p. 1117. ISBN 978-0-080-87775-4.
^ "TURKMENS OF PERSIA ii. LANGUAGE". Encyclopedia Iranica.
^ "Who are the Turkmen and where do they live?". Center for Languages of the Central Asian Region. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Bloomington. 2021 [2020]. Archived from the original on 3 June 2020. Retrieved 24 August 2021.
^ "Turkmens of Persia. Language". Encyclopedia Iranica.
^ Shiraliyev M. Fundamentals of Azerbaijan dialectology. Baku, 2008. p.76
^ Kara M. Turkmen Grammar. Ankara, 2005. p.231
^ "Swadesh list, compare the Azerbaijani language and the Turkmen language". Lingiustics.
^ "Relations between Turkey and Turkmenistan". Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey.
^ a b Hoey, Elliott Michael (2013). Grammatical Sketch of Turkmen (MA thesis). Santa Barbara: University of California.
^ a b Languages of the peoples of the Russian Federation and neighboring states (in Russian), Vol.3; 2005. Nauka (Science). p. 138
^ Isaev M. M. Language construction in USSR. 1979. Nauka (Science). p. 352
^ a b Chariyarov B. Issues of improvement of the alphabets of Turkic languages of USSR. 1972. Nauka (Science) pp. 149–156
^ Soyegov, M. New Turkmen Alphabet: several questions on its development and adoption
^ Johanson, L. (6 April 2010). Brown, Keith; Ogilvie, Sarah (eds.). Concise Encyclopedia of Languages of the World. Elsevier. pp. 110–113. ISBN 978-0-08-087775-4 – via Google Books.
^ Akatov, Bayram (2010). Ancient Turkmen Literature, the Middle Ages (X-XVII centuries) (in Turkmen). Turkmenabat: Turkmen State Pedagogical Institute, Ministry of Education of Turkmenistan. pp. 29, 39, 198, 231.
^ "Turkmenistan Culture". Asian recipe.
^ Levin, Theodore; Daukeyeva, Saida; Kochumkulova, Elmira (2016). Music of Central Asia. Indiana University press. p. 128. ISBN 978-0-253-01751-2.
^ "Nurmuhammet Andalyp". Dunya Turkmenleri.
^ a b Gross, Jo-Ann (1992). Muslims in Central Asia: Expressions of Identity and Change. Duke University Press. pp. 180–182.
^ Gudar, Nurcan Oznal (2016). Mahtumkulu Guldeste. Istanbul: Salon Yayinlari. pp. 24–25. ISBN 978-605-9831-48-2.
^ "Turkmen language | Britannica".
^ "The Iranian Turkmen language from a contact linguistics perspective". 26 October 2015.
Bibliography[edit]
Garrett, Jon, Meena Pallipamu, and Greg Lastowka (1996). "Turkmen Grammar". www.chaihana.com.
External links[edit]
 Turkmen  edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Turkmen
Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Turkmen.
Turkmen grammar and orthography rules (Turkmen) (in Turkmen)
Turkmen – English Dictionary with searchable reverse dictionary
Turkmen – English / English – Turkmen Dictionary (a) Archived 2019-08-24 at the Wayback Machine
Turkmen – English / English – Turkmen Dictionary (b) [1] [2]
Turkmen – English Dictionary
Turkmen – English / English – Turkmen Dictionary (Freelang)
Omniglot page on Turkmen
Turkmen language online transliteration Archived 2011-07-17 at the Wayback Machine
Ajapsozluk.com Ever-growing dictionary of Turkmen language
Turkmen<>Turkish dictionary (Pamukkale University)
vte Languages of TurkmenistanOfficial languages
Turkmen
Minority languages
Russian
Uzbek
Kazakh
Tatar
Ukrainian
Azerbaijani
Baluchi
Armenian
Kurdish
Lezgian
Persian
Iranian Persian
Belarusian
Georgian
Lithuanian
Tabasaran
Brahui
Dungan
Ossetian
vteLanguages of AfghanistanOfficial languages
Dari
Pashto
Afghanistan portalRegional languages
Balochi
Kyrgyz
Nuristani
Kamkata-vari
Kata-vari
Kamviri
Mumviri
Pashayi
Tajiki
Turkmen
Uzbek
Minority languages
Ashkunu
Brahui
Kamkata-vari
Khowar
Kyrgyz
Pamiri
Ishkashimi
Munji
Shughni
Yidgha
Tregami
Waigali
Wakhi
Vasi-vari
Zemiaki
Sign languages
Afghan Sign Language
vte Languages of IranOfficial languages
Persian
Regional languages
Azerbaijani
Achomi
Kurdish
Kurmanji
Sorani
Xwarin
Laki
Gorani
Luri
Gilaki
Mazanderani
Arabic
Balochi
Talysh
Tati
Qashqai
Turkmen
Semnani
Khorasani Turkic
Minority languages
Armenian
Assyrian
Circassian
Domari
Georgian
Hebrew
Jadgali
Zargari Romani
Khalaj
Sign languages
Persian Sign Language
Qahveh Khaneh Sign Language
vteLanguages of PakistanOfficial languages
Urdu (national)
English
Other languages(by administrative unit)Azad Kashmir
Dogri
Gujari
Kashmiri
Kundal Shahi
Pahari-Pothwari
Balochistan
Balochi
Brahui
Dehwari
Hazaragi
Jadgali
Khetrani
Pashto
Wanetsi
Gilgit-Baltistan
Balti
Burushaski
Dawoodi
Khowar
Purgi
Shina
Wakhi
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Burushaski
Badeshi
Bateri
Chilisso
Dameli
Gawar-Bati
Gowro
Hindko
Indus Kohistani
Kalami
Kalasha-mun
Kalkoti
Kamviri
Khowar
Kohistani Shina
Mankiyali
Munji
Ormuri
Palula
Pashto
Sawi
Shekhani
Torwali
Ushoji
Wazir
Yidgha
Punjab
Bagri
Dogri
Hindko
Kabutra
Marwari
Mewari
Pothwari Punjabi
Punjabi
dialects
Saraiki
Rajasthani
Rangri
Sindh
Aer
Bagri
Bengali
Bhaya
Dhatki
Goaria
Gujarati
Jandavra
Jogi
Koli
Kachi
Parkari
Wadiyara
Kutchi
Loarki
Marwari
Memoni
Mewari
Od
Rajasthani
Rangri
Sindhi
Urdu
Vaghri
Related topics
Indo-Aryan languages
Dardic languages
Iranic languages
Pakistani Sign Language
Arabic
Persian
Pakistani Hindi (Hindi)
Chagatai
vteTurkic languagesProto-language
Proto-Turkic
Common TurkicArghu
Khalaj
Karluk
Hezhou1
Ili Turki
Tor Tajik
Uyghur
Uzbek
Southern Uzbek
Extinct
Karakhanid
Khorezmian
Chagatai
KipchakPonto-Caspian
Crimean Tatar
Karachay-Balkar
Karaim
Krymchak
Kumyk
Urum
Extinct
Armeno-Kipchak
Mamluk-Kipchak
Cuman
Aralo-Caspian
Karakalpak
Kazakh
Nogai
Qoqmončaq1
Siberian Tatar
Extinct
Fergana Kipchak
Uralo-Caspian
Bashkir
Tatar
Extinct
Old Tatar
Kyrgyz-Kipchak
Kyrgyz
Southern Altai
Oghuz
Afshar
Azerbaijani
North Azerbaijani
South Azerbaijani
Chaharmahali Turkic
Gagauz
Khorasani Turkic
Kurbet1
Qashqai
Rumelian Turkish
Salar
Turkish
Turkmen
Extinct
Pecheneg2
Old Anatolian Turkish
Ottoman Turkish
Ajem-Turkic
Siberian
Äynu1
Chulym
Dolgan
Dukhan
Fuyu Kyrgyz
Khakas
Northern Altai
Shor
Soyot
Tofa
Tuvan
Yakut
Western Yugur2
Extinct
Orkhon Turkic
Old Turkic
Old Uyghur
Oghur
Chuvash
Extinct
Khazar2
Bulgar
1 Creole/Mixed language.
2 Classification disputed.
Authority control: National 
France
BnF data
Israel
United States
Japan
Czech Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Turkmen_language&oldid=1172704754"
Categories: Turkmen languageTurkic languagesAgglutinative languagesLanguages of TurkmenistanTurkic languages of AfghanistanLanguages of IranLanguages of PakistanLanguages of RussiaOghuz languagesHidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 21Pages containing links to subscription-only contentLanguage articles citing Ethnologue 18Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles containing Turkmen-language textLanguages with ISO 639-2 codeLanguages with ISO 639-1 codeArticles containing Azerbaijani-language textArticles containing Turkish-language textWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with BNF identifiersArticles with BNFdata identifiersArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiersArticles with NDL identifiersArticles with NKC identifiers
 This page was last edited on 28 August 2023, at 19:36 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Toggle limited content width