Microsoft's Software Is Malware
- GNU Project - Free Software Foundation
Skip to main text
Free Software Supporter:
  
JOIN THE FSF
GNU Operating System
Supported by the
 Free Software Foundation
Site navigation
Skip
ABOUT GNU
PHILOSOPHY
LICENSES
EDUCATION
SOFTWARE
DISTROS
DOCS
=
MALWARE
=
HELP GNU
AUDIO & VIDEO
GNU ART
FUN
GNU'S WHO?
SOFTWARE DIRECTORY
HARDWARE
SITEMAP
 /
 Malware /
 By company /
Microsoft's Software is Malware
Nonfree (proprietary) software is very often malware (designed to
mistreat the user). Nonfree software is controlled by its developers,
which puts them in a position of power over the users; that is the
basic injustice. The developers and manufacturers often exercise
that power to the detriment of the users they ought to serve.
This typically takes the form of malicious functionalities.
If you know of an example that ought to be in this page but isn't
here, please write
to <webmasters@gnu.org>
to inform us. Please include the URL of a trustworthy reference or two
to serve as specific substantiation.
UEFI-induced vulnerability
UEFI makes computers 
vulnerable to advanced persistent threats
that are almost impossible to detect once installed. Here are 
technical details.
Kaspersky discovered this example by chance, but is unable to
check in general for the presence of such rootkits in computers.
Nonfree software does not make your computer secure—it does the
opposite: it prevents you from trying to secure it. UEFI is a nonfree
program required for booting which is impossible to replace; in
effect, a low-level rootkit. All the things that Intel has done to
make its power over you secure against you also protect UEFI-level
rootkits against you.
Instead of allowing Intel, AMD, Apple and perhaps ARM to impose
security through tyranny, we should legislate to require them to allow
users to install their choice of startup software, and make available
the information needed to develop such. Think of this as
right-to-repair at the initialization stage.
Types of Microsoft malware
Back doors
DRM
Insecurity
Interference
Jails
Sabotage
Subscriptions
Surveillance
Tethers
Tyrants
Back Doors
2020-10
Microsoft is forcing
    Windows users to install
    upgrades it pushes using its
    universal back doors. These upgrades can do various harms to
    users such as restricting computers from some functions and/or forcing
    users to defenselessly do whatever Microsoft tells them to do.
2016-08
Microsoft
    Windows has a universal back door through which 
    any change whatsoever can be imposed on the users.
This was 
    reported in 2007 for XP and Vista, and it seems
    that Microsoft used the same method to push the 
    Windows 10 downgrade to computers running Windows 7 and 8.
In Windows 10, the universal back door
    is no longer hidden; all “upgrades” will be 
    forcibly and immediately imposed.
2015-12
Microsoft has 
    backdoored its disk encryption.
2013-08
The German government veers
    away from Windows 8 computers with TPM 2.0 (original
    article in German), due to potential back
    door capabilities of the TPM 2.0 chip.
2013-07
Here is a suspicion that
    we can't prove, but is worth thinking about: 
    Writable microcode for Intel and AMD microprocessors may be a
    vehicle for the NSA to invade computers, with the help of Microsoft,
    say respected security experts.
2011-12
Windows 8 also has a back door for 
    remotely deleting apps.
You might well decide to let a security service that you trust
    remotely deactivate programs that it considers malicious.
    But there is no excuse for deleting the programs, and you
    should have the right to decide whom (if anyone) to trust in this
    way.
DRM
Digital restrictions management, or “DRM,” refers to
functionalities designed to restrict what users can do with the data
in their computers.
2019-04
Ebooks “bought” from Microsoft's store check that
    their DRM is valid by connecting to the store every time their
    “owner” wants to read them. Microsoft is going to close
    this store, 
    bricking all DRM'ed ebooks it has ever “sold”. (The
    article additionally highlights the pitfalls of DRM.)
This is another proof that a DRM-encumbered product doesn't belong
    to the person who bought it. Microsoft said it will refund customers,
    but this is no excuse for selling them restricted books.
2007-08
DRM
    in Windows, introduced to cater to Bluray disks. 
    (The article talks about how the same malware would later be
    introduced in MacOS.  That had not been done at the time, but it was
    done subsequently.)
Insecurity
These bugs are/were not intentional, so unlike the rest of the file
  they do not count as malware. We mention them to refute the
  supposition that prestigious proprietary software doesn't have grave
  bugs.
2022-10
    The Microsoft Office encryption is weak, and susceptible to
    attack.
Encryption is a tricky field, and easy to mess up. It is wise
    to insist on encryption software that is (1) free software and (2)
    studied by experts.
2022-02
A security failure in Microsoft's Windows is infecting
    people's computers with RedLine stealer malware using a fake
    Windows 11 upgrade installer.
2021-07
A newly found Microsoft Windows vulnerability 
    can allow crackers to remotely gain access to the operating system
    and install programs, view and delete data, or even create new user
    accounts with full user rights.
The security research firm accidentally leaked instructions on
    how the flaw could be exploited but Windows users should still wait
    for Microsoft to fix the flaw, if they fix it.
Please note that the article
    wrongly refers to crackers as “hackers”.
2021-03
At least 30 thousand organizations
    in the United States are newly “cracked” via holes
    in Microsoft's proprietary email software, named Microsoft 365. It
    is unclear whether there are other holes and vulnerabilities in the
    program or not but history and experience tells us it wouldn't be
    the last disaster with proprietary programs.
2021-02
Researchers at the security firm SentinelOne discovered a security
    flaw in proprietary program Microsoft Windows Defender that lurked
    undetected for 12 years. If the program was free (as in freedom),
    more people would have had a chance to notice the problem, therefore,
    it could've been fixed a lot sooner.
2020-04
The proprietary program Microsoft Teams' insecurity could
    have let a malicious GIF steal user data from Microsoft Teams
    accounts, possibly across an entire company, and taken control
    of “an organization's entire roster of Teams accounts.”
2017-05
Exploits of bugs in Windows, which were developed by the NSA
    and then leaked by the Shadowbrokers group, are now being used to attack
    a great number of Windows computers with ransomware.
2016-08
A flaw
    in Internet Explorer and Edge allows an attacker to retrieve
    Microsoft account credentials, if the user is tricked into visiting
    a malicious link.
2013-12
    Point-of-sale terminals running Windows were taken over and
    turned into a botnet for the purpose of collecting customers' credit
    card numbers.
Interference
This section gives examples of Microsoft software harassing or annoying
the user, or causing trouble for the user.  These actions are like
sabotage but the word “sabotage” is too strong for them.
2023-02
Microsoft is 
    remotely disabling Internet Explorer, forcibly redirecting users to
    Microsoft Edge.
Imposing such change is malicious, and the fact that the redirection
    is from one unjust program (IE) to another unjust program (Edge)
    does not excuse it.
2021-08
Microsoft is making it harder and harder to replace
    default apps in its Windows operating system and is pressuring
    users to use its proprietary programs instead. We believe the
    best approach to this would be replacing Windows with a free
    (as in freedom) operating system like GNU. We also maintain a list of fully free distributions
    of GNU.
2021-02
Microsoft is forcibly
    removing the Flash player from computers running Windows 10, using
    a
    universal backdoor in Windows.
The fact that Flash has been disabled
    by Adobe is no excuse for this abuse of power. The nature of
    proprietary software, such as Microsoft Windows, gives the developers
    power to impose their decisions on users. Free software on the other
    hand empowers users to make their own decisions.
2018-09
One version of Windows 10 
    harangues users if they try to install Firefox (or Chrome).
2018-03
Microsoft is planning to make Windows 
    impose use of its browser, Edge, in certain circumstances.
The reason Microsoft can force things on users is that Windows
    is nonfree.
2017-03
Windows displays 
    intrusive ads for Microsoft products and its partners'
    products.
The article's author starts from the premise that Microsoft has
    a right to control what Windows does to users, as long as it doesn't
    go “too far”. We disagree.
2016-12
The Microsoft Telemetry Compatibility service 
    drastically reduces the performances of machines running
    Windows 10, and can't be disabled easily.
2016-08
 After forcing the download of Windows 10
    on computers that were running Windows 7 and 8, Microsoft 
    repeatedly switched on a flag that urged users to
    “upgrade” to Windows 10 when they had turned
    it off, in the hope that some day they would fail to say no.
    To do this, Microsoft used 
    malware techniques.
A detailed 
    analysis of Microsoft's scheme is available on the Electronic
    Frontier Foundation's website.
2016-03
Microsoft has made companies'
    Windows machines managed by the company's sysadmins harangue
    users to complain to the sysadmins about not “upgrading”
    to Windows 10.
2016-01
Microsoft has desupported
    all future Intel CPUs for Windows 7 and 8. Those
    machines will be stuck with the nastier Windows 10.  
    AMD and Qualcomm CPUs, too.
Of course, Windows 7 and 8 are unethical too, because they are
    proprietary software.  But this example of Microsoft's wielding its
    power demonstrates the power it holds.
Free software developers also stop maintaining old versions of
    their programs, but this is not unfair to users because the users of
    free software have control over it.  If it is important enough to you,
    you and other users can hire someone to support the old version on
    your future platforms.
Sabotage
The wrongs in this section are not precisely malware, since they do
not involve making the program that runs in a way that hurts the user.
But they are a lot like malware, since they are technical Microsoft
actions that harm the users of specific Microsoft software.
2019-04
Microsoft has been  
    force-installing a “remediation”
    program on computers running certain
    versions of Windows 10. Remediation, in Microsoft's view, means 
    tampering with users' settings and files, notably to
    “repair” any components of the updating system that users
    may have intentionally disabled, and thus regain full power over
    them. Microsoft repeatedly pushed faulty versions of this program to
    users' machines, causing numerous problems, some of which 
    critical.
This exemplifies the arrogant and manipulative attitude
    that proprietary software developers have learned to adopt
    toward the people they are supposedly serving. Migrate to a free operating system if you
    can!
If your employer makes you run Windows, tell the financial
    department how this wastes your time dealing with endless connections
    and premature hardware failures.
2017-04
Microsoft has made Windows 7
    and 8 cease to function on certain new computers, effectively
    forcing their owners to switch to Windows 10.
2017-04
Microsoft 
    has dropped support for Windows 7 and 8 on recent processors
    in a big hurry.
It makes no difference what legitimate reasons Microsoft might
    have for not doing work to support them. If it doesn't want to do
    this work, it should let users do the work.
2016-06
In its efforts to trick users of Windows
    7 and 8 into installing all-spying Windows 10 against their
    will, Microsoft forced their computers to 
    silently download… the whole of Windows 10! Apparently,
    this was done through a 
    universal back door. Not only did the unwanted downloads 
    jeopardize important operations in regions of the world with poor
    connectivity, but many of the people who let installation proceed
    found out that this “upgrade” was in fact a 
    downgrade.
2016-06
Once Microsoft has tricked a user
    into accepting installation of Windows 10, they
    find that they are denied the option to cancel or even postpone the
    imposed date of installation.
This demonstrates what we've said for years: using proprietary
    software means letting someone have power over you, and you're going
    to get screwed sooner or later.
2016-01
FTDI's proprietary driver
    for its USB-to-serial chips has been designed to sabotage
    alternative compatible chips
    so that they no longer work. Microsoft is installing
    this automatically as an “upgrade”.
2015-11
Windows 10 “upgrades” 
    delete applications without asking permission.
2015-03
Microsoft
    cut off security fixes for Windows XP, except to some big users that
    pay exorbitantly.
Microsoft is going to 
    cut off support for some Internet Explorer versions in the same
    way.
A person or company has the right to cease to work on a particular
    program; the wrong here is Microsoft does this after having made the
    users dependent on Microsoft, because they are not free to ask anyone
    else to work on the program for them.
2013-06
Microsoft
    informs the NSA of bugs in Windows before fixing them.
Subscriptions
2015-07
Microsoft Office forces users to
    subscribe to Office 365 to be able to create/edit documents.
Surveillance
2023-06
Edge sends
    the URLs of images the user views to Microsoft's servers by
    default, supposedly to “enhance” them.  And these images
    may
    end up on the NSA's servers.
Microsoft claims its nonfree browser sends the URLs without
    identifying you, which cannot be true, since at least your IP
    address is known to the server if you don't take extra measures.
    Either way, such enhancer service is unjust because any image editing
    should
    be done on your own computer using installed free software.
The article describes how to disable sending the URLs.  That makes
    a change for the better, but we suggest that you instead switch to a
    freedom-respecting browser with additional privacy features such as
    IceCat.
2023-02
As soon as it boots, and without asking any permission, Windows
    11 starts to send data to online servers. The user's personal
    details, location or hardware information are reported to Microsoft and
    other companies to be used as telemetry data. All of this is done is
    the background, and users have no easy way to prevent it—unless
    they switch the computer offline.
2023-01
Microsoft 
    released an “update” that installs a surveillance
    program on users' computers to gather data on some installed
    programs for Microsoft's benefit. The update is rolling out
    automatically, and the program runs “one time silently.”
2020-11
Microsoft's Office 365 suite enables employers to
    snoop on each employee. After
    a public outburst, Microsoft stated that it
    would remove this capability. Let's hope so.
2020-10
Microsoft is imposing its
    surveillance on the game of Minecraft by requiring
    every player to open an account on Microsoft's network. Microsoft
    has bought the game and will merge all accounts into its network,
    which will give them access to people's data.
Minecraft players can play Minetest
    instead. The essential advantage of Minetest is that it is free
    software, meaning it respects the user's computer freedom. As a bonus,
    it offers more options.
2020-10
As of 2019-2020, Minecraft players are being
    forced to move to Microsoft servers, which results in
    privacy violation. Microsoft publishes a program so users can run
    their own server, but the program is proprietary and it's another injustice
    to users.
People can play Minetest
    instead. Minetest is free software and respects the user's computer
    freedom.
2020-04
Proprietary programs Google Meet, Microsoft Teams, and WebEx are
    collecting user's personal and identifiable data including how long
    a call lasts, who's participating in the call, and the IP addresses
    of everyone taking part. From experience, this can even harm users
    physically if those companies hand over data to governments.
2020-04
Google, Apple, and Microsoft (and probably some other companies)
    are
    collecting people's access points and GPS coordinates (which can
    identify people's precise location) even if their GPS is turned
    off, without the person's consent, using proprietary software
    implemented in person's smartphone. Though merely asking for permission
    would not necessarily legitimize this.
2019-12
Microsoft is tricking
    users to create an account on their network to be able to install
    and use the Windows operating system, which is malware. The account can
    be used for surveillance and/or violating people's rights in many ways,
    such as turning their purchased software to a subscription product.
2019-08
Microsoft recorded users of Xboxes and had 
    human workers listen to the recordings.
Morally, we see no difference between having human workers listen and
    having speech-recognition systems listen.  Both intrude on privacy.
2019-08
Skype refuses to say whether it can eavesdrop
    on calls.
That almost certainly means it can do so.
2019-05
Microsoft forces
    people to give their phone number in order to be able to create an account on
    the company's network. On top of mistreating their users by providing
    nonfree software, Microsoft is tracking their lives outside the computer and
    violates their privacy.
2017-10
Windows 10 telemetry program sends information to Microsoft about
    the user's computer and their use of the computer.
Furthermore, for users who installed the
    fourth stable build of Windows 10, called the
    “Creators Update,” Windows maximized the surveillance 
    by force setting the telemetry mode to “Full”.
The 
    “Full” telemetry mode allows Microsoft Windows
    engineers to access, among other things, registry keys 
    which can contain sensitive information like administrator's login
    password.
2017-02
DRM-restricted files can be used to 
    identify people browsing through Tor. The vulnerability exists
    only if you use Windows.
2016-11
By default, Windows 10 sends
    debugging information to Microsoft, including core dumps. Microsoft
    now distributes them to another company.
2016-08
In order to increase Windows 10's install base, Microsoft 
    blatantly disregards user choice and privacy.
2016-03
    Windows 10 comes with 13 screens of snooping options, all enabled
    by default, and turning them off would be daunting to most users.
2016-01
It appears 
    Windows 10 sends data to Microsoft about what applications are
    running.
2015-11
A downgrade to Windows 10 deleted surveillance-detection
    applications.  Then another downgrade inserted a general spying
    program.  Users noticed this and complained, so Microsoft renamed it 
    to give users the impression it was gone.
To use proprietary software is to invite such treatment.
2015-08
    Windows 10 sends identifiable information to Microsoft, even if
    a user turns off its Bing search and Cortana features, and activates
    the privacy-protection settings.
2015-07
Windows 10 
    ships with default settings that show no regard for the privacy of
    its users, giving Microsoft the “right” to snoop on
    the users' files, text input, voice input, location info, contacts,
    calendar records and web browsing history, as well as automatically
    connecting the machines to open hotspots and showing targeted ads.
We can suppose Microsoft looks at users' files for the US government
    on demand, though the “privacy policy” does not explicitly
    say so. Will it look at users' files for the Chinese government
    on demand?
2015-06
Microsoft uses Windows 10's “privacy policy”
    to overtly impose a “right” to look at
    users' files at any time. Windows 10 full disk encryption 
    gives Microsoft a key.
Thus, Windows is overt malware in regard to surveillance, as in
    other issues.
The unique “advertising ID” for each user enables
    other companies to track the browsing of each specific user.
It's as if Microsoft has deliberately chosen to make Windows 10
    maximally evil on every dimension; to make a grab for total power
    over anyone that doesn't drop Windows now.
2014-10
It only gets worse with time.  
    Windows 10 requires users to give permission for total snooping,
    including their files, their commands, their text input, and their
    voice input.
2014-05
    Microsoft SkyDrive allows the NSA to directly examine users'
    data.
2013-07
Skype contains spyware.
    Microsoft changed Skype 
    specifically for spying.
2013-07
Spyware in older versions of Windows: 
    Windows Update snoops on the user. 
    Windows 8.1 snoops on local searches. And there's a  secret NSA
    key in Windows, whose functions we don't know.
Tethers
Tethers are functionalities that require constant (or very frequent)
connection to a server.
2017-08
The recent versions of Microsoft Office require the user to 
    connect to Microsoft servers at least every thirty-one
    days. Otherwise, the software will refuse to edit any documents
    or create new ones. It will be restricted to viewing and printing.
Jails
Jails are systems that impose censorship on application programs.
2017-06
Windows 10 S was a jail: 
    only programs from the Windows Store could be
    installed and executed. It was however possible to 
    upgrade to Windows 10 Pro. The successor of Windows
    10 S is a special configuration of Windows 10 called 
    S mode. The major difference with Windows 10 S is that there is
    an easy way to switch out of S mode.
2012-10
    Windows 8 on “mobile devices” (now defunct) was a
    jail.
Tyrants
Tyrants are systems that reject any operating system not
“authorized” by the manufacturer.
2016-07
Microsoft accidentally left a way for users
    to install GNU/Linux on Windows RT tablets, but now it has 
    “fixed” the “error”. They have the gall
    to call this “protecting” the users.  The article talks
    of installing “Linux”, but the context shows it is really
    GNU/Linux that users install.
2011-10
    Mobile devices that come with Windows 8 are tyrants.
As this page shows, if you do want to clean your computer of malware,
the first software to delete is Windows.
BACK TO TOP ▲
Proprietary malware
By type
Addictions
Back doors
Censorship
Coercion
Coverups
Deception
DRM
Fraud
Incompatibility
Insecurity
Interference
Jails
Manipulation
Obsolescence
Sabotage
Subscriptions
Surveillance
Tethers
Tyrants
In the pipe
By product
Appliances
Cars
Conferencing
EdTech
Games
Mobiles
Webpages
By company
Adobe
Amazon
Apple
Google
=
Microsoft
= 
▲
BACK TO TOP
   Set language
   
Available for this page:
[en] English  
[es] español  
[fr] français  
[it] italiano  
[ja] 日本語  
[pt-br] português  
[ru] русский  
BACK TO TOP ▲
“The Free Software Foundation (FSF) is a nonprofit with a worldwide
mission to promote computer user freedom. We defend the rights of all
software users.”
JOIN
DONATE
SHOP
Please send general FSF & GNU inquiries to
<gnu@gnu.org>.
There are also other ways to contact
the FSF.  Broken links and other corrections or suggestions can be sent
to <webmasters@gnu.org>.
Please see the Translations
README for information on coordinating and contributing translations
of this article.
Copyright © 2014-2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This page is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
Copyright Infringement Notification
Updated:
$Date: 2023/07/08 09:38:33 $