Context-Aware Computing Research Papers - Academia.edu
      Skip to main content
    
Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer.To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser.
Log InSign UpLog InSign Upmore Job BoardAboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTermsPrivacyCopyright We're Hiring! Help Centerless 
Context-Aware Computing9,771 FollowersRecent papers in Context-Aware ComputingTop PapersMost Cited PapersMost Downloaded PapersNewest PapersPeopleTowards a Hybrid Approach for Adapting Web Graphical User Interfaces to Heterogeneous Devices Using ContextUbiquitous Computing promises seamless access to a wide range of applications and Internet-based services from anywhere, at anytime, and using any device. In this scenario, new challenges for the practice of software development arise:... moreUbiquitous Computing promises seamless access to a wide range of applications and Internet-based services from anywhere, at anytime, and using any device. In this scenario, new challenges for the practice of software development arise: Applications and services must keep a coherent behavior, a proper appearance, and must adapt to a plenty of contextual usage requirements and hardware aspects. Especially, due to its interactive nature, the interface content of Web applications must adapt to a large diversity of devices and contexts. In order to overcome such obstacles, this work introduces an innovative methodology for content adaptation of Web 2.0 interfaces. The basis of our work is to combine static adaption — the implementation of static Web interfaces; and dynamic adaptation — the alteration, during execution time, of static interfaces so as for adapting to different contexts of use. In hybrid fashion, our methodology benefits from the advantages of both adaptation strategies — ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Luciana Aparecida Martinez Zaina•  6  Computer Science, Software Engineering, Context-Aware Computing, Knowledge Management in Software EngineeringMobility in hospital work: towards a pervasive computing hospital environmentSave to LibraryDownloadby Victor Gonzalez•  19  Information Management, Workplace Studies, Pervasive Computing, Context-Aware ComputingReal-time Physiological Emotion Detection Mechanisms: Effects of Exercise and Affect IntensityThe development of systems capable of recognizing and categorising emotions is of interest to researchers in various scientific areas including artificial intelligence. The traditional notion that emotions and rationality are two separate... moreThe development of systems capable of recognizing and categorising emotions is of interest to researchers in various scientific areas including artificial intelligence. The traditional notion that emotions and rationality are two separate realms has gradually been challenged. The work of neurologists has shown the strong relationship between emotional episodes and the way humans think and act. Furthermore, emotions not only regulate human decisions but could also contribute to a more satisfactory response to the environment, i.e., faster and more precise actions. In this paper an analysis of physiological signals employed in real-time emotion detection is presented in the context of Intelligent Inhabited Environments (IIE). Two studies were performed to investigate whether physical exertion has a significant effect on bodily signals stemming from emotional episodes with subjects having various degrees of affect intensity: 1) a statistical analysis using the Wilcoxon Test, and 2) a cluster analysis using the Davies- Bouldin Index. Preliminary results demonstrated that the heart rate and skin resistance consistently showed similar changes regardless of the physical stimuli while blood volume pressure did not show a significant change. It was also found that neither physical stress nor affect intensity played a role in the separation of neutral and non-neutral emotional states.Save to LibraryDownloadby Victor Callaghan and +1Graham S Clarke•  77  Instrumentation Engineering, Bioinformatics, Physiology, Human PhysiologyKinetic User Interfaces for Flexible Mobile CollaborationSave to LibraryDownloadby Béat Hirsbrunner•  18  Ubiquitous Computing, Kinetics, Pervasive Computing, Context-Aware ComputingTowards an Ontology of Scenes and Situations— It is no surprise that the notion of situation is key to situation awareness. The development of the discipline can thus benefit from careful analysis of the notion. In this paper, we approach this by proposing an ontology of situations... more— It is no surprise that the notion of situation is key to situation awareness. The development of the discipline can thus benefit from careful analysis of the notion. In this paper, we approach this by proposing an ontology of situations and scenes. The main contribution of this ontology is that it accounts for how situations progress in time changing qualitatively, constituting what we call scenes. The ontology is built by reusing basic elements from the Unified Foundational Ontology (UFO). It addresses objects, occurrences, and their formal relations to situations and scenes. We use the theory of embodiment proposed by the philosopher Kit Fine to explicate how scenes and situations form wholes constituted of parts.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giancarlo Guizzardi•  30  Information Systems, Cognitive Science, Software Engineering, Information Systems (Business Informatics)Quake Delirium EEG A Pilot Study Regarding Biofeedback-Driven Visual Effects in a Computer GameAltered states of consciousness (ASC) can be represented in video games through appropriate use of sound and computer graphics. Our research seeks to establish systematic methods for simulating ASC using computer sound and graphics, to... moreAltered states of consciousness (ASC) can be represented in video games through appropriate use of sound and computer graphics. Our research seeks to establish systematic methods for simulating ASC using computer sound and graphics, to improve the realism of ASC representations in video game engines. Quake Delirium is a prototype ‘ASC Simulation’ that we have created by modifying the video game Quake. Through automation of various graphical parameters that represent the conscious state of the game character, hallucinatory ASC are represented. While the initial version of Quake Delirium utilised a pre-determined automation path to produce these changes, we propose that immersion may be improved by providing the user with a ‘passive’ method of control, using a brain-computer interface (BCI). In this initial trial, we explore the use of a consumer-grade electroencephalograph (EEG) headset for this purpose. Keywords—Altered States of Consciousness; Video Games; Brain-Computer Interface ...Save to LibraryDownloadby Shaun Roberts•  15  Musical Composition, Computer Music, Sonic Art, Altered States of ConsciousnessA key step to understanding paradigm shifts in e-learning: towards context-aware ubiquitous learningElectronic learning (e-learning) has become widely accepted in both entirely online learning environments and in blended learning contexts (Mayadas, Bourne & Bacsich, 2009). In a broad sense, e-learning is used to describe the way people... moreElectronic learning (e-learning) has become widely accepted in both entirely online learning environments and in blended learning contexts (Mayadas, Bourne & Bacsich, 2009). In a broad sense, e-learning is used to describe the way people use an electronic device (usually a computer) with learning technology (LT; Rushby & Seabrook, 2008) to develop new knowledge and skills individually or collaboratively. Mobile devices with LT, such as PDAs, smart phones and portable computers, constitute various forms of wireless environments that foster two-way, real-time communications among users, as well as between the user and their context, and can have many functions to promote mobile learning (m-learning; Rushby, 2005). Since the early 2000s, new forms of mobile technology containing additional sensor devices have been providing new directions for technology-assisted learning, and this has led to context-aware ubiquitous learning (u-learning; Hwang, Wu & Chen, 2007; Yang, 2006), which enables users to interact and learn with sensors and radio frequency identification (RFID) embedded objects in their surroundings (Curtin, Kauffman & Riggins, 2007). Context-aware ubiquitous technology is continuing to develop and spread, and its applications have begun to influence learning in various fields and disciplines (de Jong, Specht & Koper, 2008). Although Taiwan is very competitive with regard to research and development and gaining patents in the ICT (information and communication technology) industry, its achievements are still unsatisfactory when it comes to making good use of such devices in various contexts (Economist Intelligence Unit, 2008). In order to better prepare for the cutting-edge context-aware u-learning that is being developed as part of government-funded, national e-learning research in Taiwan, we first identify the similarities and differences among conventional e-learning, m-learning and context-aware u-learning in terms of theoretical and practical variables. To date, there has been no research published concerning the paradigm shifts in e-learning leading to the development of context-aware u-learning, and thus we propose a set of significant values based on the relevant literature to guide the development of context-aware u-learning applications. In addition, we present a context-aware u-learning case to demonstrate how it can be used in real-life contexts. Finally, the research agenda along with some concerns are presented, followed by the conclusions to this work.Save to LibraryDownloadby Gi-Zen Liu•  6  E-learning, Mobile Learning, Ubiquitous Computing, Mobile TechnologyA framework for understanding contexts in interactive systems developmentSave to LibraryDownloadby Eric Swanson and +1Keiichi Sato•  5  Context-Aware Computing, User Interaction, Area of Interest, Contextual InformationConfidence fusionSave to LibraryDownloadby Mel Siegel and +1Huadong Wu•  9  Robotics, Computational Modeling, Context-Aware Computing, RobotsÝ tưởng kinh doanh ít vốnBạn sẽ làm gì với một số vốn ít ỏi? Bạn muốn kinh doanh nhưng chưa biết bắt đầu từ đâu, lựa chọn sản phẩm nào, hay số vốn còn khá khiêm tốn? Với xu hướng ngày nay thì ít vốn bạn vẫn có thể kinh doanh tốt, bạn chỉ cần trang bị cho mình một... moreBạn sẽ làm gì với một số vốn ít ỏi? Bạn muốn kinh doanh nhưng chưa biết bắt đầu từ đâu, lựa chọn sản phẩm nào, hay số vốn còn khá khiêm tốn? Với xu hướng ngày nay thì ít vốn bạn vẫn có thể kinh doanh tốt, bạn chỉ cần trang bị cho mình một chút kinh nghiệm và kiến thức thôi. Ý tưởng kinh doanh ít vốn nảy sinh khi mạng xã hội bắt đầu phát triển, từ đó bạn có thể bán hàng qua các kênh mạng xã hội mà không cần đầu tư vào cửa hàng, nhập nhiều hàng hóa mà số lượng khách hàng biết tới bạn lại rất nhiều. Chính vì thế mà xu hướng kinh doanh Online ngày càng phát triển, bạn là người đi sau vậy cần lưu ý những điểm sau để ý tưởng kinh doanh ít vốn của bạn thành công. Ý tưởng kinh doanh ít vốn 1. LỰA CHỌN SẢN PHẨM Hiện nay, hàng hóa được bán Online rất đa dạng và phong phú từ những món hàng thường ngày như: quần áo, giày dép, túi xách, nước hoa, đồng hồ… ngoài ra là những sản phẩm độc đáo như: đồ handmade. Chính vì thế nếu bạn muốn sự cạnh tranh thấp hãy lựa chọn những sản phẩm như sau: + Đồ thời trang nhưng độc và lạ + Sản phẩm handmade + Những món hàng chỉ bạn mới có Món ngon: Cháo bí ngô converted by Web2PDFConvert.comSave to LibraryDownloadby cuong manh•  15  Agricultural Engineering, Agronomy, Agribusiness, Organic agricultureGamification of Production? A Study on the Acceptance of Gamified Work Processes in the Automotive Industry (Jul 2016)In this work, we investigate how gamification can be integrated into work processes in the automotive industry. The contribution contains five parts: (1) An introduction showing how gamification has become increasingly common, especially... moreIn this work, we investigate how gamification can be integrated into work processes in the automotive industry. The contribution contains five parts: (1) An introduction showing how gamification has become increasingly common, especially in education, health and the service industry. (2) An analysis on the state of the art of gamified applications, discussing several best practices. (3) An analysis of the special requirements for gamification in production, regarding both external norms and the mindset of workers in this domain. (4) An overview of first approaches towards a gamification of production, focusing on solutions for impaired workers in sheltered work organizations. (5) A study with a focus group of instructors at two large car manufacturers. Based on the presentation of three potential designs for the gamification of production, the study investigates the general acceptance of gamification in modern production and determines which design is best suited for future implementations.Save to LibraryDownloadby Oliver Korn•  11  Automotive Systems Engineering, Context-Aware Computing, Industrial Engineering, Work and Organizational PsychologyAudio based Context Awareness on a Pocket PCSave to LibraryDownloadby Filip Bonnevier•  6  Machine Learning, Audio Engineering, Audio Signal Processing, Mobile TechnologyA hybrid context aware system for tourist guidance based on collaborative filteringSave to LibraryDownloadby enrico fischetti•  19  Data Mining, Social Networking, Ubiquitous Computing, Soft ComputingThe Conscious-Subconscious Interface: An Emerging Metaphor in HCISave to LibraryDownloadby Aryn Pyke•  5  Cognitive Science, Human Computer Interaction, Context-Aware Computing, Intelligent AgentGait, Wrist and Sensors: Detecting Freezing of Gait in Parkinson’s Disease from Wrist MovementWe investigate the correlation between wrist movement and freezing of the gait in Parkinsons disease. Detecting such freezes allows real-time monitoring to reduce the risk of falls in subjects with Parkinson’s. While most of research... moreWe investigate the correlation between wrist movement and freezing of the gait in Parkinsons disease. Detecting such freezes allows real-time monitoring to reduce the risk of falls in subjects with Parkinson’s. While most of research focuses on placing inertial sensors on lower limb, i.e., foot, ankle, thigh, lower back, we focus on the wrist as an alternative placement. Commonly worn accessories at the wrist such as watches or wristbands are easier to be accepted and worn by elderly users, in special subjects with motor problems. Experiments on data from 11 subjects show that freezing of gait episodes can be detected using the wrist movements, with a freeze hit-rate of 90% and 83% specificity in a subject-dependent evaluation scheme. This suggests that wrist sensors can be a feasible alternative to the cumbersome placement on the legs.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sinziana Mazilu•  10  Wearable Computing, Assistive Technology, Wearable Technologies, Context-Aware ComputingSMS based Wireless Notice board with Monitoring systemSave to LibraryDownloadby Arjun Raj•  9  Computer Science, Algorithms, Computer Engineering, Wireless CommunicationsTRIP: A Low-Cost Vision-Based Location System for Ubiquitous ComputingSave to LibraryDownloadby Diego López-de-Ipiña•  9  Information Systems, Cognitive Science, Computer Vision, Ubiquitous ComputingComputação Ubíqua Ciente de Contexto: Desafios e TendênciasSave to LibraryDownloadby Teste teste•  4  Ubiquitous Computing, Context-Aware Computing, Context Aware, Wireless CommunicationNearu is an innovative location-based application that enhances the shopping experience for consumers and increases the exposure of merchants.We looked through all the latest technology that could be used in conjunction with your smartphone, something that could really get shoppers engaged and interested in the experience and we found that in Gimbal, a software platform that... moreWe looked through all the latest technology that could be used in conjunction with your smartphone, something that could really get shoppers engaged and interested in the experience and we found that in Gimbal, a software platform that can help shape our users shopping patterns through using the technology in their phone best suited our needs. Using this technology, the smartphone will be used as a tool to gain a privacy enhanced peek into user’s interests, habits and personality, therefore our application will slowly get to know the user and recommend items thorough push messages that users may have a need for.Save to LibraryDownloadby JP Gallagher•  7  Marketing, Context-Aware Computing, Cloud Computing, Online ShoppingAn Object-Oriented Version Model for Context-Aware Data ManagementContext-aware computing has been recognised as a powerful solution to address the requirements of many modern application domains. For example, in mobile computing, context is used to augment the user's experience when interacting with a... moreContext-aware computing has been recognised as a powerful solution to address the requirements of many modern application domains. For example, in mobile computing, context is used to augment the user's experience when interacting with a system by adapting responses to their current situation. In the domain of ubiquitous and pervasive computing, the role of context is often to compensate for the lack of traditional user interfaces. Finally, in web engineering, context is used to adapt content delivery to numerous factors. Building on context information, recent web systems support multi-channel and multi-modal interaction as well as personalisation and internationalisation. While several frameworks and models have been proposed to gather, represent and process context, very few of these solutions consider the management of context-aware data.In the past, database systems have been used to manage data for applications from various domains. To address ever changing requirements, database systems have undergone a remarkable evolution from monolithic heavyweight databases to lightweight personal information stores. Continuing this evolution, it is our approach to extend database systems with concepts to cope with the challenge of context-aware data management. The proposed solution is based on a two-dimensional version model that allows context-dependent variants to be managed, while, at the same time, keeping track of the revisional history. Within the scope of this version model, query processing is realised based on a matching algorithm that uses the current context state of the system to select the best version of every object that is accessed during query evaluation.Our version model has been specified based on the OM object-oriented data model and has been implemented as part of a database management system that is based on OM. As an application of this extended database management system, a web content management system has been designed and implemented. The intention of this Extensible Content Management System (XCM) is to provide a powerful implementation platform for web engineering applications. Most model-driven design methodologies in this application domain feature some notion of context-driven adaptation. However, suitable implementation platforms to support these methodologies are sparse or tied in with a specific design method. To implement web engineering systems, XCM separates the concepts of content, structure, view and presentation. Metadata about these concepts is managed within our extended database and therefore all four aspects of a web system can be made context-aware.The EdFest mobile tourist information system serves as a proof-of-concept for XCM, that is used as a content management component in this system. EdFest is an application that provides information about the Edinburgh Festivals to tourists while they are visiting the city. The system offers multi-channel interaction by supporting standard web channels as well as a novel paper-based channel. In terms of context information, EdFest has established new requirements, as not only traditional factors such as location, device and user context are considered, but also the interaction context. Due to specific requirements of the interactive paper delivery channel, not only the content that is delivered to a tourist has to be adapted but also the interaction process that leads to the content delivery.Even though our version model for context-aware data management has been defined within the framework of the OM data model, the concepts can be generalised to data that is represented in other models. In particular this is the case for relational database management systems, as our version model has its origins in solutions that have been proposed for temporal and engineering databases that were developed based on the relational model. Unfortunately, most of today's information is not managed by database systems but rather stored in plain files and it is therefore not possible to take advantage of the proposed version model. Concepts from web content management such as the explicit representation of the internal structure of a file or the reuse of different content components in different places could be used to improve today's file systems. Only in this setting, can the full potential of context-aware data management be finally unleashed in handling everyday information such as wordprocessing, spreadsheet or presentation documents.Save to LibraryDownloadby Michael Grossniklaus•  9  Object Database, Database Systems, Data Management, Context-Aware ComputingDesigning and Implementation of Tic-Tac-Toe-4X4 based Artificial Intelligence using Python Programming___ In Tic-Tac-Toe of the classic game is built on computer-based flat form using python as a part of case study project using Artificial Intelligent techniques. The primary goal for this project is to create a computer artificial... more___ In Tic-Tac-Toe of the classic game is built on computer-based flat form using python as a part of case study project using Artificial Intelligent techniques. The primary goal for this project is to create a computer artificial intelligent based on Tic-Tac-Toe 4x4 game that show two players on who will win and who will lose the game accordingly, using the standard Minimax algorithm, it was adopted and modified as a subset of rules from best gameplay practices: (1) attempt to win, (2) endeavor to keep a misfortune, (3) make a key move, and (4) make an irregular move. To make the game more fun and more winnable at easier difficulty levels, probabilities are introduced that the computer would find a valuable move and ignore it. In the end, the computer artificial intelligent uses a simple, lightweight decision tree to choose its next move, and the gameplay is fast, balanced, and enjoyable. furthermore, in the winning strategy in a chess game by means of symbolic model checking, and demonstrate the winning strategy in tic-tac-toe game through the symbolic model checking tool improved with the verification algorithm for winning strategy.Save to LibraryDownloadby Abubakarsidiq M A K A M E Rajab•  3  Artificial Intelligence, Context-Aware Computing, wireless applications with Internet of Thing (IoT) within Internet environmentEngineering Context-Aware Systems and Applications: A surveyContext-awareness is an essential component of systems developed in areas like Intelligent Environments, Pervasive & Ubiquitous Computing and Ambient Intelligence. In these emerging fields, there is a need for computerized systems to have... moreContext-awareness is an essential component of systems developed in areas like Intelligent Environments, Pervasive & Ubiquitous Computing and Ambient Intelligence. In these emerging fields, there is a need for computerized systems to have a higher understanding of the situations in which to provide services or functionalities, to adapt accordingly. The literature shows that researchers modify existing engineering methods in order to better fit the needs of context-aware computing. These efforts are typically disconnected from each other and generally focus on solving specific development issues. We encourage the creation of a more holistic and unified engineering process that is tailored for the demands of these systems. For this purpose, we study the state-of-the-art in the development of context-aware systems, focusing on: A) Methodologies for developing context-aware systems, analysing the reasons behind their lack of adoption and features that the community wish they can use. B) Context-aware system engineering challenges and techniques applied during the most common development stages; C) Context-aware systems conceptualization;Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Carlos Augusto•Context-Aware ComputingCross-Media Information Spaces and Architectures (CISA)Overview of ongoing research in the CISA group (WISE research lab) at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. The group is investigating cross-media information spaces and architectures, interactive paper and augmented reality solutions as well... moreOverview of ongoing research in the CISA group (WISE research lab) at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. The group is investigating cross-media information spaces and architectures, interactive paper and augmented reality solutions as well as multimodal and multi-touch interaction frameworks. Thereby, we are doing research on new document formats for representing information across different types of media as well as fluid user interfaces for interacting with the resulting cross-media information spaces. A significant part of our research is based on applying and extending the resource-selector-link (RSL) hypermedia metamodel.More information: https://beatsigner.com/cross-media-information-spaces-and-architectures.htmlSave to LibraryDownloadby Beat Signer•  88  Information Systems, Engineering, Computer Science, Computer GraphicsA UCWW cloud-based system for increased service contextualization in future wireless networksProceedings of the 2nd international conference on telecommunications and remote sensing, ICTRS 2013Save to LibraryDownloadby Nikola S Nikolov•  4  Information Retrieval, Wireless Communications, Context-Aware Computing, Wireless networksImplicit Human-Computer Interaction - Next Generation User Interfaces (4018166FNR)This lecture forms part of the 'Next Generation User Interfaces' course given at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.Save to LibraryDownloadby Beat Signer•  44  Information Systems, Engineering, Computer Science, AlgorithmsCourse Review - Next Generation User Interfaces (4018166FNR)This lecture forms part of the 'Next Generation User Interfaces' course given at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.Save to LibraryDownloadby Beat Signer•  30  Engineering, Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information TechnologyTangible, Embedded and Embodied Interaction - Next Generation User Interfaces (4018166FNR)This lecture forms part of the 'Next Generation User Interfaces' course given at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.Save to LibraryDownloadby Beat Signer•  46  Information Systems, Engineering, Computer Science, Software EngineeringInformation Architectures - Next Generation User Interfaces (4018166FNR)This lecture forms part of the 'Next Generation User Interfaces' course given at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.Save to LibraryDownloadby Beat Signer•  42  Information Systems, Engineering, Computer Science, Software EngineeringCross-Media Information Spaces and ArchitecturesSeminar talk delivered at a seminar organised by infogroep.Save to LibraryDownloadby Beat Signer•  48  Information Systems, Engineering, Computer Science, AlgorithmsMicro-Location for Internet of Things enabled Smart BuildingsMicro-location is the process of locating any entity with high accuracy (possibly in centimeters), while geofencing is the process of creating a virtual fence around a so-called Point of Interest (PoI). In this paper, we present an... moreMicro-location is the process of locating any entity with high accuracy (possibly in centimeters), while geofencing is the process of creating a virtual fence around a so-called Point of Interest (PoI). In this paper, we present an insight into various micro-location enabling technologies and services. We also discuss how these can accelerate the incorporation of Internet of Things (IoT) in smart buildings. We argue that micro-location based location-aware solutions can play a significant role in facilitating the tenants of an IoT equipped smart building. Also, such advanced technologies will enable the smart building control system through minimal actions performed by the tenants. We also highlight the existing and envisioned services to be provided by using micro-location enabling technologies. We describe the challenges and propose some potential solutions such that micro-location enabling technologies and services are thoroughly integrated with IoT equipped smart building.Save to LibraryDownloadby Fahim  Zafari and +1Ioannis Papapanagiotou•  16  E Marketing, The Internet of Things, Context-Aware Computing, Internet of ThingsSistema de Información Aumentada para Navegación Indoor-Outdoor Basado en Modelos Semánticos OrganizacionalesThe increasing use of multisensory devices has caused a growing interest the area of Distributed Systems in CENIDET. In recent years many context-aware recommendation systems have been developed. These services are based in the user... moreThe increasing use of multisensory devices has caused a growing interest the area of Distributed Systems in CENIDET. In recent years many context-aware recommendation systems have been developed. These services are based in the user profile; therefore, they provide personalized information. The recommendation systems involve different technologies to capture environmental data, such as NFC, RFID, GPS, Wi-Fi and so on. In recent years, Augmented Reality has caused a big impact in the development of this kind of services. This technology is able to include virtual objects into the real world using a multisensory device.In this thesis project, an indoor-outdoor navigation system was developed. The system implements an interface through Augmented Reality and the interface allows the user to navigate inside and outside of an organization and interact with contextual information. This information can be a place, an event, a contact, a notice and so on. Hence, a model of identification of points of interest by origin-destination nodes for navigation and nodes of interest (place, person, event, etc.) was developed.Each node contains a poster of information; there are two types of posters: the first for interaction service, which offers the service of navigation, and the second one the contextual information service. In the navigation system, a service of generation route algorithm and the ADA standard were implemented. This service and standard will be able to determine whether a selected route is accessible or not, providing support to users with disabilities.Finally, in this project, a system able to show contextual information to guide users inside and outside an organization (indoor-outdoor navigation) through augmented reality technologies in multisensory devices was developed.Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Gabriel González  Gonzalez-Serna•  2  Context-Aware Computing, NFC ( Near Field Communication )The Context Modelling Toolkit: A Unified Multi-layered Context Modelling ApproachContext awareness plays an important role in recent smart environments and embedded interactions. In order to increase user satisfaction and acceptance, these context-aware solutions should be controllable by end users. Over the last few... moreContext awareness plays an important role in recent smart environments and embedded interactions. In order to increase user satisfaction and acceptance, these context-aware solutions should be controllable by end users. Over the last few years we have therefore seen an emerging trend towards visual programming tools for context-aware applications based on simple "IF this THEN that" rules. However, existing solutions often do not support the simple reuse of the "this" part in order to define more sophisticated rules. Given that the desired level of control varies among individuals, we propose a unified multi-layered context modelling approach distinguishing between end users, expert users and programmers. Our Context Modelling Toolkit (CMT) consists of the necessary context modelling concepts and offers a rule-based context processing engine. We further illustrate how end users and expert users might interact with the CMT framework. Finally, we highlight some advantages of our Context Modelling Toolkit by discussing a number of use cases.Save to LibraryDownloadby Lars  Van Holsbeeke and +1Beat Signer•  31  Information Systems, Engineering, Computer Science, Software EngineeringA review of smart homes in healthcareThe technology of Smart Homes (SH), as an instance of ambient assisted living technologies, is designed to assist the homes’ residents accomplishing their daily-living activities and thus having a better quality of life while preserving... moreThe technology of Smart Homes (SH), as an instance of ambient assisted living technologies, is designed to assist the homes’ residents accomplishing their daily-living activities and thus having a better quality of life while preserving their privacy. A SH system is usually equipped with a collection of inter-related software and hardware components to monitor the living space by capturing the behaviour of the resident and understanding his activities. By doing so the system can inform about risky situations and take actions on behalf of the resident to his satisfaction. The present survey will address technologies and analysis methods and bring examples of the state of the art research studies in order to provide background for the research community. In particular, the survey will expose infrastructure technologies such as sensors and communication platforms along with artificial intelligence techniques used for modeling and recognizing activities. A brief overview of approaches used to develop Human–Computer interfaces for SH systems is given. The survey also highlights the challenges and research trends in this area.Save to LibraryDownloadby Mohsen  Amiribesheli•  13  Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Dementia, Pervasive ComputingA critical review of 13 years of mobile game-based learningWith the increasing popularity of smartphones and tablets, Game-Based Learning (GBL) is undergoing a rapid shift to mobile platforms. This transformation is driven by mobility, wireless interfaces, and built-in sensors that these smart... moreWith the increasing popularity of smartphones and tablets, Game-Based Learning (GBL) is undergoing a rapid shift to mobile platforms. This transformation is driven by mobility, wireless interfaces, and built-in sensors that these smart devices offer in order to enable blended and context-sensitive mobile learning (m-Learning) activities. Thus, m-Learning is becoming more independent and ubiquitous (u-Learning). In order to identify and analyze the main trends and the future challenging issues involved in designing mGBL learning strategies, as well as to bring to the foreground important issues pertaining to mobile and context-aware ubiquitous GBL, the work at hand conducts a comprehensive survey of this particular area. Specifically, it introduces and applies a six-dimensional framework consisted of Spatio-temporal, Collaboration/Social, Session, Personalization, Data security & privacy, and Pedagogy, with the aim of scrutinizing the contributions in the field of mGBL published from 2004 to 2016. It was found that the transition to mGBL presents several difficulties, and therefore cannot be conceived as a simple and quick modification of existing GBL solutions. In this respect, this work is anticipated to foster the development of well-designed solutions that are intensive not only in their technological aspect, but in pedagogical qualities as well.    December 2017 - Educational Technology Research and Development, Springer     DOI10.1007/s11423-017-9552-zSave to LibraryDownloadby Filippos D Giannakas and +1Andreas Papasalouros•  6  Context-Aware Computing, Digital Games, Digital Game Based Learning, FrameworkServicios de localización conscientes del contexto aplicando perfiles de movilidad y tecnologías de localización heterogéneasContextual or dependent information technologies are projected as the new paradigm of interaction between the user and his or her environment. Systems where the user will receive feedback from contextual information depending on where it... moreContextual or dependent information technologies are projected as the new paradigm of interaction between the user and his or her environment. Systems where the user will receive feedback from contextual information depending on where it is located.These services will, among other things, do the activities scheduled on his or her agenda, which are related to a specific location, i.e. define a relationship between space and time, unlike traditional agendas which only administer timeless activities.This project presents a novel system that uses self-identification technologies such as RFID and QRCodes, and mobile phones with the Android operating system for locating users inside multi-level buildings and in campus-type areas, i.e. with several buildings. The association also offers real-world objects to the information system by means of self-identification using RFID and QRCodes.Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Gabriel González  Gonzalez-Serna•  2  Location Based Services, Context-Aware ComputingAdvances in Information and Communication TechnologySave to LibraryDownloadby Amina Cherouana•  3  Computer Science, Context-Aware Computing, Business ManagementExploring value-of-information-based approaches to support effective communications in tactical networksTactical networking environments present many challenges in terms of bandwidth, latency, reliability, stability, and connectivity. Sensors can today generate very large data sets that exceed the ability of tactical networks to transfer... moreTactical networking environments present many challenges in terms of bandwidth, latency, reliability, stability, and connectivity. Sensors can today generate very large data sets that exceed the ability of tactical networks to transfer and disseminate them in a timely manner. Furthermore, the desire to cover larger areas with persistent sensing capabilities, have resulted in the widescale deployment of inexpensive sensors, further widening the gap between the volume of information that is generated and the subset that can successfully be delivered to consumers. This article explores the notion of determining the value of information in order to prioritize and filter information that is disseminated over these tactical networks, focusing on the dissemination of information to and from dismounted soldiers in a battlefield environment. This is a promising approach to mitigate the constraints of tactical networks and to reduce information overload on soldiers.Save to LibraryDownloadby Giacomo Benincasa and +1Rita Lenzi•  6  Mobile Ad Hoc Networks, Wireless Sensor Networks, Context-Aware Computing, Mobile ComputingSoftware Engineering challenges for ubiquitous computing in various applicationsUbiquitous Computing is a paradigm containing the characteristics to break away from the traditional desktop computing system and turn to such computer systems where everything is available & accessible everywhere through various... moreUbiquitous Computing is a paradigm containing the characteristics to break away from the traditional desktop computing system and turn to such computer systems where everything is available & accessible everywhere through various devices while keeping them effectively invisible. The accomplishment of this vision requires a deep involvement of multiple areas including software engineering. Software engineering plays a major role in ubi-comp world; but the lack of appropriate software engineering approaches is identified as a major obstacle on the route to propose a general level framework that should be adopted for all kinds of ubi-comp applications. The very initial step which is still required for this vision is to identify all potential software engineering challenges in the ubi-comp era. In this paper we have made a survey of various ubi-comp applications and extracted a number of software engineering challenges faced by other researchers during the development of such applications. This work provides a future direction for other researchers and developers to make the process of providing an appropriate framework for building ubi-comp application more effectively.Save to LibraryDownloadby Usman Ashraf•  6  Parallel Computing, High Performance Computing, Software Engineering, Ubiquitous ComputingNew Research Articles 2019 May Issue International Journal of Computer Networks & Communications (IJCNC)The International Journal of Computer Networks & Communications (IJCNC) is a bi monthly open access peer-reviewed journal that publishes articles which contribute new results in all areas of Computer Networks & Communications. The journal... moreThe International Journal of Computer Networks & Communications (IJCNC) is a bi monthly open access peer-reviewed journal that publishes articles which contribute new results in all areas of Computer Networks & Communications. The journal focuses on all technical and practical aspects of Computer Networks & data Communications. The goal of this journal is to bring together researchers and practitioners from academia and industry to focus on advanced networking concepts and establishing new collaborations in these areas.Save to LibraryDownloadby International Journal of Computer Networks & Communications (IJCNC)•  15  Routing, The Internet of Things, Context-Aware Computing, Cooperative Communication SystemsPimVis: Exploring and Re-finding Documents in Cross-Media Information SpacesOver the last decade, we have witnessed an emergence of Personal Information Management (PIM) solutions. Despite the fact that paper documents still form a significant part of our daily working activities, existing PIM systems usually... moreOver the last decade, we have witnessed an emergence of Personal Information Management (PIM) solutions. Despite the fact that paper documents still form a significant part of our daily working activities, existing PIM systems usually support the organisation and re-finding of digital documents only. While physical document tracking solutions such as RFID- or computer vision-based systems are recently gaining some attention, they usually focus on the paper document tracking and offer limited support for re-finding activities. We present PimVis, a solution for exploring and re-finding digital and paper documents in so-called cross-media information spaces. The PimVis user interface enables a unified organisation of digital and paper documents through the creation of bidirectional links between the digital and physical information space. The presented personal cross-media information management solution further supports the extension with alternative document tracking techniques as well as augmented reality solutions. A formative PimVis evaluation revealed the high potential of fully integrated cross-media PIM solutions.Save to LibraryDownloadby Sandra Trullemans and +2Beat SignerAudrey Sanctorum•  45  Information Systems, Engineering, Computer Science, AlgorithmsTowards Measuring Learning Effectiveness considering Presence, Engagement and Immersion in a Mixed and Augmented Reality Learning EnvironmentThe current era of advanced display technologies, such as a head mounted displays, smart glasses and handheld devices, have supported the usage of mixed-reality and augmented reality concepts in smart educational classrooms. These... moreThe current era of advanced display technologies, such as a head mounted displays, smart glasses and handheld devices, have supported the usage of mixed-reality and augmented reality concepts in smart educational classrooms. These advanced technologies have enabled enhanced collaboration and an interactive communication between distance learners and local learners. Being present’ is a key factor in both worlds (real and virtual) as it plays an important role in increasing the students’ collaborative engagement during the learning activity. However, few studies have considered how much using such immersive interfaces with various learning scenarios may ultimately affect learning outcomes, and whether students feel fully engaged or not in such environments. This work-in progress paper will demonstrate a MiRTLE+ prototype of how remote students can collaborate within mixed-reality environments by using an augmented reality approach. Secondly, it will explore the learning effectiveness based on the following factors: students’ presence, engagement, and immersion in smart environments. With regard to the learning task, we will consider a card game task to measure the learners’ progress as they progress from novice to expert player. To evaluate these factors, we utilise several existing frameworks which have been applied to our mixed-reality worldsSave to LibraryDownloadby Victor Callaghan•  32  Teaching and Learning, Educational Technology, E-learning, Science EducationGenerador Semiautomático de Mapas Contextuales Interactivos en 2D y Grafo de Rutas Transitables Door-to-Door a partir de Modelos Semánticos OrganizacionalesLocation Based Services (LBS) are applications that provide Users recommendations about services available based on the user's location. Location in this kind of systems is provided mainly through the use of geographic maps that currently... moreLocation Based Services (LBS) are applications that provide Users recommendations about services available based on the user's location. Location in this kind of systems is provided mainly through the use of geographic maps that currently have been focusing primarily in outdoor environments but nowadays are gradually moving towards indoor environments like malls, museums, public buildings and others.Among this kind of systems We found Context Aware Recommendation Systems (CARS), which provide recommendations to users based on their context information, this context information may consist on user's location, changes on the environment, date and time of the day and any other relevant information for the interaction between users and the System, whereupon it is possible to characterize the state of the individual entities that interact with the System and the user, as well as the relationships between these entities, given as a result the possibility to provide more accurate recommendations to the user.This thesis project focuses on indoor environments, here it is presented a system that allows the creation of draft maps for indoor environments making use of emerging technologies like Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) and ontology models, which allows to add contextual information related with the infrastructure of this type of environments. Additionally, it is presented an algorithm that allows to find all passable routes in generated maps, which can be used to provide navigation services in a Contextual Recommender System.Save to LibraryDownloadby Juan Gabriel González  Gonzalez-Serna•  3  Location Based Services, Context-Aware Computing, SVGLocation-Aware Access to Hospital Information and ServicesSave to LibraryDownloadby edgar martinez•  20  Engineering, Algorithms, Context-Aware Computing, Location-AwarenessFeatures Selection for Human Activity Recognition with iPhone Inertial SensorsThe recognition of human activities through sensors embedded in smart-phone devices, such as iPhone, is attracting researchers due to its relevance. The advances of this kind of technology are making possible the widespread and... moreThe recognition of human activities through sensors embedded in smart-phone devices, such as iPhone, is attracting researchers due to its relevance. The advances of this kind of technology are making possible the widespread and pervasiveness of sensing technology to take advantage of multiple sources of sensing to enrich users experience or to achieve proactive, context-aware applications and services. Human activity recognition and monitoring involves a continuing analysis of large amounts of data so, any increase or decrease in accuracy results in a wide variation in the number of activities correctly classied and incorrectly classied, so it is very important to increase the rate of correct classication. We have researched on a vector with 159 diferent features and on the vector subsets in order to improve the human activities recognition. We extracted features from the Magnitude of the Signal, the raw signal data, the vertical acceleration, the Horizontal acceleration, and the ltered Raw data. In the evaluation process we used the classiers: Naive Bayes, K-Nearest Neighbor and Random Forest. The features were extracted using the java programming language and the evaluation was done with WEKA. The maximum accuracy was obtained, as expected, with Random Forest using all the 159 features. The best subset found has twelve features: the Pearson correlation between vertical acceleration and horizontal acceleration, the Pearson correlation between x and y, the Pearson correlation between x and z, the STD of acceleration z, the STD of digital compass y, the STD of digital compass z, the STD of digital compass x, the mean between axis, the energy of digital compass x, the mean of acceleration x, the mean of acceleration z, the median of acceleration z.Save to LibraryDownloadby Nuno Cruz Silva•  4  Machine Learning, Data Analysis, Context-Aware Computing, Health SystemsA location-dependent recommender system for the webSave to LibraryDownloadby Roberto  Battiti•  13  Computational Complexity, Ubiquitous Computing, Context-Aware Computing, Location-AwarenessTransportation Mode detection Using Mobile Phones and GIS InformationThe transportation mode such as walking, cycling or on a train denotes an important characteristic of the mobile user’s context. In this paper, we propose an approach to infer a user’s mode of transportation based on the GPS sensors on... moreThe transportation mode such as walking, cycling or on a train denotes an important characteristic of the mobile user’s context. In this paper, we propose an approach to infer a user’s mode of transportation based on the GPS sensors on their mobile devices, and knowledge of the underlying transportation network. The transportation network information considered includes real time bus locations, spatial rail and spatial bus stop information. We identify and derive the relevant features related to transportation network information to improve classification effectiveness. This approach can achieve over 93.5% accuracy for inferring various transportation modes including: car, bus, aboveground train, walking, bike, and stationary. Compared with existing methods, our approach improves the accuracy of detection by 17% for GPS only approach, and 9% for GPS with GIS models. This proposed technique is the first to distinguish between motorized transportation modes such as bus, car and aboveground train with such high accuracy. Additionally, if a user is travelling by bus, we provide further information about which particular bus the user is travelling on. Five different inference models including, Bayesian Net, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Naïve Bayesian and Multilayer Perceptron, are studied in the experiments. The final classification system is deployed and available to the public.Save to LibraryDownloadby Leon Stenneth•  9  Machine Learning, Ubiquitous Computing, Pattern Recognition, Pervasive ComputingSensor fusion using Dempster-Shafer theory [for context-aware HCI]Save to LibraryDownloadby Huadong Wu•  7  Context-Aware Computing, Dempster-Shafer Analysis, Uncertainty Management, Sensor FusionLearning distributed selective attention strategies with the Sigma-if neural networkSelective attention systems are found to be very interesting as well from theoretical point of view, as also as useful tools for many practical applications, such as analysis of large data sets, real time route planning for autonomic... moreSelective attention systems are found to be very interesting as well from theoretical point of view, as also as useful tools for many practical applications, such as analysis of large data sets, real time route planning for autonomic robots in dynamical environment, and dispersed sensor networks control. However up to date models of biological selective attention systems and other methods that realize similar functionality still have some drawbacks. Decision trees are easy to analyze by humans, but once created are hard to adapt to the changes in the system environment. The next example - statistical feature selection algorithms create solutions that use globally suboptimal feature sets, but in general they are not optimal from the point of view of single input vectors, and those algorithms are hard to apply in fast changing environments. This is why biologically founded neuronal selective attention systems seem to offer better properties for many possible applications. The only problem with neuronal selective attention systems is that their existing models implement artificial, centralized attention directing algorithms and in the effect they do not offer functionality observed in the nature. This is why there is still a need for analyzing properties of natural selective attention mechanisms, as well as for further exploration of possible models of biological neuronal selective attention systems.Save to LibraryDownloadby Maciej Huk•  3  Selective Attention, Context-Aware Computing, Artificial Neural NetworksInteraction with autonomous, mobile agents in a hazard monitoring contextThis paper discusses our ongoing research on user interaction with autonomous mobile agents. The overarching project, DIADEM, involves the development of a (semi-)autonomous system that detects potential environmental hazards in heavily... moreThis paper discusses our ongoing research on user interaction with autonomous mobile agents. The overarching project, DIADEM, involves the development of a (semi-)autonomous system that detects potential environmental hazards in heavily populated urban- industrial areas by using input from both a distributed sensor network and humans through their mobile devices. User experiments in this project will focus on social and affective issues in interacting with autonomous mobile agents (such as positioning of mobile agents in relation to the user, empathic interaction and user trust). We describe the project and research context for our studies.Save to LibraryDownloadby Andi Winterboer and +1Frans Groen•  5  Human Computer Interaction, Context-Aware Computing, Environmental Monitoring, Sensor networksImproving vehicular user experience through context-aware multimodal interactionSave to LibraryDownloadby Maurizio Caon and +2Elena MugelliniLeonardo Angelini•  8  Automotive Systems Engineering, Human Computer Interaction, Context-Aware Computing, Natural User InterfacesNextLast »Related TopicsPervasive ComputingFollowFollowingUbiquitous ComputingFollowFollowingContext AwarenessFollowFollowingLinked DataFollowFollowingGesture RecognitionFollowFollowingMobile HealthFollowFollowingComputer ScienceFollowFollowingWeb ScienceFollowFollowingHypermediaFollowFollowingHuman Computer InteractionFollowFollowing 71.6 million researchers use this site every month. Ads help cover our server costs.
×CloseLog InLog in with FacebookLog in with GoogleorEmailPasswordRemember me on this computeror reset passwordEnter the email address you signed up with and we'll email you a reset link.
Need an account? Click here to sign up
AboutPressBlogPeoplePapersTopicsAcademia BiologyAcademia EngineeringAcademia MedicineJob Board We're Hiring! Help CenterFind new research papers in:PhysicsChemistryBiologyHealth SciencesEcologyEarth SciencesCognitive ScienceMathematicsComputer ScienceTermsPrivacyCopyrightAcademia ©2023